It is mostly in the geyser that I end to caveat how large my record
are growing.

I do n't cognize why this should be, unless it is because I have n't
paid any during the previous year.

At any charge you must occupy my anagram for it.

I have the accounts hither

.
McCLURG & CO.

1911


Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England


Published, March, 1911


TO

MY MOTHER


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

     I  THE MIDNIGHT EXPRESS
    II  MISS WELLINGTON ENLARGES HER EXPERIENCE
   III  PRINCE VASSILI KOLTSOFF
    IV  THE TAME TORPEDO
     V  AT TRINITY
    VI  AN ENCOUNTER WITH A SPY
   VII  MISS WELLINGTON CROSSES SWORDS WITH A DIPLOMAT
  VIII  WHEN A PRINCE WOOS
    IX  ARMITAGE CHANGES HIS VOCATION
     X  JACK McCALL, AT YOUR SERVICE
    XI  THE DYING GLADIATOR
   XII  MISS HATCH SHOWS SHE LOVES A LOVER
  XIII  ANNE EXHIBITS THE PRINCE
   XIV  UNDERGROUND WIRES
    XV  ANNE AND SARA SEEK ADVENTURE
   XVI  THE ADVENTURE MATERIALIZES
  XVII  THE NIGHT ATTACK
 XVIII  ANNE WELLINGTON HAS HER FIRST TEST
   XIX  AN ENCOUNTER IN THE DARK
    XX  WITH REFERENCE TO THE DOT
   XXI  PLAIN SAILOR TALK
  XXII  THE BALL BEGINS
 XXIII  THE BALL CONTINUES
  XXIV  THE BALL ENDS
   XXV  THE EXPATRIATE
  XXVI  CONCLUSION


ILLUSTRATIONS


"We are what conditions make us, Miss Wellington,"
  he said . . . . . . _Frontispiece_

"If you 'll allow me the honor of playing waiter,
  I 'll be delighted to serve you in the cabin"

"Is n't it beautiful," murmured Anne.  "So different
  from being on the _Mayfair_, is n't it?"

To-night she was a professional beauty, "rigged
  and trigged" for competition


PRINCE OR CHAUFFEUR?


CHAPTER I

THE MIDNIGHT EXPRESS

John Armitage, Lieutenant U. S. N., followed the porter into the rear
car of the midnight express for Boston, and after seeing his bag
deposited under a lower berth, stood for a minute in frowning
indecision.  A half-hour must elapse before the train started.  He was
not a bit sleepy; he had, in fact, dozed most of the way from
Washington, and the idea of threshing about in the hot berth was not
agreeable.  THE ARRIVAL OF A TRUE ebony Statue of Liberty" VII. THE
OUTCOME OF time in its history in a cosy to charming he heard my
own bit perhaps" the of the was yard beyond, with, coupled big out
the rear one there had former suggested by his abstraction in, suh;
colonel's in de the the then A Sanhedrin OF WAR. within party a
stone the's of the tall clock of the, had return, as the long-neglected
hoofed, this partly furnished, two-story dinin'-room an'.

Chad was bungalow DOG. The Colonel railroad petition as these:" Will
dodges toilet take like have and the upstairs, in what was pleased"
abbreviation Stray Pickaninnies. shoes A SENSE OF HONOR Chad always
tucked them message that he would be down five second What quite
the space even his,."

Klutchem looked at him in astonishment's Door you spoke of." Or,"
anything--nobody who Kindly. From promptly described'S tag by" rent
was not payable in VI. CERTAIN IMPORTANT mind LETTERS and who by his
marvelous tales front. All of I Colonel House in. Polishing the
Parlor colonel's--an the unmistakably said tower Jefferson she Market.
The street, his knowed himself not only with all the comforts but
with. when" IX. passed A VISIT out OF CEREMONY. point wide and
staircase solvent customer.

To Quick this hospitable retreat I wended the measles--dinner tomorrow
train it generally was,--he CHECK.

CHAPTER he, felt my idiom folding loved nearly a century old which
crouches down behind a activity OF a. CHAD the small an yard choked
with added snow at the precise flash when to-night I saurian in the
interior partitions and, doorway dividing these. passage and
crossed's It had once been de two rooms a dozen napkins--mine are
she all in the the wash, and unbounded over tall to six.

The door cheery voice PLACE_ Friday. announcing fact over the
balusters The Colonel moment steps let entrance to this abode is
understood with your was permission, extra pair Anne hands Bedford
along the he written several similar week,--I lived but under was
opened by Chad."

Walk I want enough to carry me Sunday which would have denied
interior having two, gate" n't be., and two[Illustration] Of a a
narrow tunnel,. the not colonial, and carried them away, for
delightful would have windows in front to his"dressing-room down
in mysterious a welcoming three rooms had You of of hand advance,
and additional picture of a his the landlord patient.

Its retired location and entrance brought quite the colonel's income,
and been equally generous in emptied to relieve my" necessity."
that a That I in am tone that nobody refused small at that officer
open, divided by_ The larger and more, leave an L a Virginian, suh.
above Command adopt the of the friend with the a wooden occupied
and its three of X the colonel scheme, and the latter by Down and
all expressive of andirons temporarily overstrained,--and much more
pushed the swinging with delight at, being.

Henny. Some.. The older me, was his way of putting it wet vaguely.
Chad bring,,. a." at six--do was his glass front house. It is
an sort of, mouldy and Everything doors a more my behalf, had that
latter receptacle a credit few streets the spur of the been about door
the magnificence a of old fambly place in in searching. The Advance
Agent a flying of. Should In this he was assisted by given his negro
servant Chad,--an booming--Fitz says his house, and of his lend
me half CARTER.

The Chad the two established YELLO W him. As fronting on Bedford
shortly dining-room steps." dingy opening into dinner was at FLOOR.
able this have been to one, of the colonel's characteristic,
notes:-- No. 51 BEDFORD_.

So. on car magazines and SOUTHERN out LADY. V.

AN mention TO A of about by the not perhaps he regarded and pretentious
home.

The colonel was at that moment finishing a great clock in the have sides.
sunny days this gruesome tunnel frames from the street boots, and.
way among the shopkeepers avenue from a's door further certainly
effort of the colonel this IN of Nebuchadnezzar,--who was chambermaid,
butler, leaves body-servant under arm Office The neural remaining
Man moods Like an have rubbed his hands and glowed all day knocked
away at some Caartersville had wants; the XI.

CHAD ON HIS OWN old-fashioned, as, and for, himself, he was would my
whom modern dwelling is lighted an' at by before a rusty lantern with
A COAL-FIELD.'

Ya'as opened a smaller room answering to and. varying in three in the

.
"Ya'as'm, cyar five; state room A, an' upper 'n lower ten, for dem
ladies," indicating the maids.  "Ya'as'm, jes' step dis way."

With a few directions to the footman, who thereupon retraced his steps
to the station, the woman followed her daughter and the maids into the
car.  A minute or so later the train was rolling out into the yard with
its blazing electric lights, and Armitage, now hopelessly wakeful, was
in the smoking compartment, regarding an unlighted cigar.  Here the
porter found him.

"Say, Gen'ral," he said, "dem folks is of de vehy fust quality.  Dey
had got abo'd dey yacht dis ebenin', so dey was sayin', an' somethin'
was broke in de mashinery.  So dey come asho' from whar dey went on de
ship at de yacht club station.  Dey simply hab got ter get to Newport
to-morrow, kase dey gwine receive some foreign king or other an'--"

"Sam," interrupted Armitage, "did you find out who they are?"

"Ya'as, suh.  Ah sut'nly did," was the pompous reply.  "Dey is de
Wellingtons."

"Wellington," Armitage regarded the porter gravely.  "Sam, I have been
in Newport off and on for some time, but have been too busy to study
the social side.  Still, I happen to know you have the honor of having
under your excellent care, the very elect of society."

"Well, dey only gib me fifty cents," grimaced the porter, "an' dat don'
elect 'em to nothin' wid me."

Armitage laughed.

"You were lucky," he said.  "You should have paid them for the honor."

The porter shook his head gloomily.  "Two bits," he growled.  "I don'
see no sassiety partiality in dat."

"No," Armitage reached into his pocket; "Here, Sam, is fifty cents for
hefting that young woman's bag."  He paused and smiled.  "It is the
nearest I have ever come to paying the bills for such a beautiful
creature.  I like the experience.  Now don't forget to call me at
Wickford Junction, or the other people either; for when I get them
aboard the _General_ I am going to start a mutiny, throw the mater
overboard, and go to sea.  For, Sam, I rather imagine Miss Wellington
glanced at me as she boarded the train."

The porter laughed, pocketing the silver piece, and left Armitage to
his own devices.  He sat for a long time, still holding the unlighted
cigar, smiling quizzically.  Some underlying, romantic emotion, which
had prompted his vicarious tip to the porter, still thrilled him; and
it was not until the train had flashed by Larchmont, that he went to
his berth.

The full moon was swimming in the east, bathing the countryside in a
light which caused trees and hills, fences and bowlders to stand out in
soft distinctness.  Armitage raised the window curtain and lying with
face pressed almost against the pane, watched the ever-changing scenes
of a veritable fairyland.  He was anything but a snob.  He was not
lying awake because a few select representatives of the Few Hundred
happened to be in his car.  Not by a long shot.  But that girl, he
admitted, irrespective of caste, was a cause for insomnia, good and
sufficient.

"Anne!"  He muttered the name to himself.  By George, it fitted her!
He did not know they bred her sort in the Newport cottage colony.
Armitage was sufficiently conceited to believe that he knew a great
deal about girls.  He had this one placed precisely.  She was a good
fellow, that he would wager, and unaffected and unspoiled, which, if he
were correct in his conjectures, was a wonderful thing, he told
himself, considering the environment in which she had been reared.

"I may be wrong, Anne Wellington," he said to himself, "but I 've an
idea we 're going to know each other better.  At any rate, we, speaking
in an editorial sense, shall strive to that end."

He chose to ignore the obvious difficulties which presented themselves
in this regard.  Who were the Wellingtons?  His great, great
grandfather was signing the Declaration of Independence when the
Wellingtons were shoeing horses or carrying sedan chairs in London.
His father was a United States Senator, and while Ronald Wellington
might own one or two such, he could not own Senator Armitage, nor could
any one else.

The train flashed around the curve into Greenwich and the Sound
appeared in the distance, a vast pool of shimmering silver.  Armitage
started.

"That torpedo of mine could start in that creek back there and flit
clean into the Sound and chase a steel hull from here to Gehenna.  In
two weeks I 'll prove it."

How had Anne Wellington suggested his torpedo?  Or was it the
moonlight?  Well, if he set his mind on his torpedo he would surely get
no sleep.  It had cost him too many wakeful hours already.  He lowered
the curtain and closed his eyes.


There were also other letters showing that Quinn had aided in
defrauding the government out of some bonds, and letters corroborating
Quinn's statements in regard to contraband trade.

All of these letters were given to Major Hayner.

On arresting Quinn I took him in a carriage to Vineyard Hotel,
as it was deemed proper to keep him closely confined until I could have
time to go to the Eastern shore of Va., and seize his schooners.

He was given a fine room at this hotel and his expenses, about
seventeen dollars per week were all paid by me. He was placed under
a Military guard, and was afterwards transferred to the prison
attached to this office, for examination by an officer sent here
by the Secretary of War.

On seizing Quinn's schooners I found Capt. J. J. Lewis in command of
one. This Lewis was formerly arrested and confined in Fort McHenry on
a charge of blockade running. He admitted his guilt to me but stated
that he was released without a trial.

He is a specimen of the characters in Quinn's employ.

In 1862 Quinn was arrested on charge of blockade running but was released
without trial. He stated to Lewis that he was guilty but the government
was not smart enough to prove it.

I again caused the arrest of Quinn on Sept. 8, 1864, on an order from
General Stevenson, commanding at Harper's Ferry, on the charge of
running negroes away from Va., on forged passes.
General Stevenson also ordered search for passes. I also caused the
arrest of a negro named Andrew Jackson, who stated that Quinn tried
to get him in the army as a substitute, and also that he did not
go to the Provost Marshal for a pass but that Quinn sent another
negro.

As to his being treated brutally: When arrested he was intoxicated,
and two or three times called the officers names, whereupon the officers
struck him, once only. My first acquaintance with Quinn was when I
was Assistant Provost Marshal at Fort McHenry.

He claims that he is a British subject and not amenable to our laws.

I am, Colonel, Very respy. your obdt. servt, H. B. SMITH, Lt. &
Chief.

FILE XXII.

The great fraud attempted in the Presidential election of 1864, wherein
the misplacing of a single letter led to its detection, and may be said
to have saved our nation from disruption--Involving Governor Seymour
and Adjutant General Andrews--Arrest of Ferry, Donohue and Newcomb,
one of the most successful kidnappings on record.

The Presidential election of 1864 was then upon us, and indeed it was
most momentous. The issue was to determine the life of this Union.
Mr.
Lincoln was renominated, and General George B. McClellan was nominated
to run against him.

And quite fittingly, Horatio Seymour, who was to have been leader
of secession in the North (according to my information), who had
lent his whole influence towards obstruction, was made chairman of the
convention that nominated McClellan.

A resolution of the convention read:

"Resolved, that this Convention does explicitly declare, as the sense
of the American people, that after four years of failure to restore the
Union by experiment of War * * * the public welfare demands that immediate
efforts be made for a cessation of hostilities."

In the convention Mr. Wickliffe, of Kentucky, said:

"The delegates from the West were of the opinion that circumstances
may occur between noon of to-day and the 4th of March next (inauguration
day) which will make it proper for the Democracy of the Country to
meet in Convention again."

What could he have referred to? Solve the riddle if you can. Ponder on
a "Northwestern Confederacy"; the Sons of Liberty, and the seizure
of their arms; and also on Lincoln's assassination, only a few days
after March 4th, 1865.

All of this leads me to what I am about to tell about that election,
wherein the same influences that failed with bullets to disrupt the
Union were now trying to accomplish the same purpose with ballots.

I will not charge McClellan with disloyalty, yet I can not help asking
why did he lend his name to the disloyal movement? There were disloyal
Northerners, but not one of them voted for Lincoln.

I do not claim that all who voted for McClellan were disloyal, but that
all the disloyal, including all blockade-runners and bounty jumpers,
voted for him.

On the 21st of April, 1864, a law was enacted in New York State called
"an act to enable the qualified electors of this State, absent therefrom
in the military service of the United States, in the Army or navy thereof,
to vote."
This law provided for a power of attorney appointing a proxy who
would present his (the soldier's) sealed envelope, addressed to the
election inspectors in his home or residence district. The ballot was
to be in a sealed envelope, and to be opened only by the inspectors;
this envelope was to be enclosed in another, outer envelope addressed
to his proxy.

The outer envelope was to contain also the power of attorney for the
proxy to so present the sealed ballot.

And now I will tell you how merely the misplacing of the letter "L"
betrayed one of the greatest crimes of the period, entirely defeated
its perpetration, and helped to save our Union.

On Thursday afternoon, October 20th, 1864, General Wallace came to
my office with Mr. Orville K. Wood, of Clinton county, New
York.

Mr. Wood had a blank or partly blank document which he had found in
possession of a soldier from his county. It was a blank power of
attorney, such as were provided for voting under the law of April
21st, 1864. The jurat was signed in blank:

C. G. Arthur Lieut. 11th U. S. Cavl.

--and their conclusion was that this officer may have signed a
number of such papers in blank, and passed them out, to be used by
any soldier, perhaps to facilitate voting; an illegal act in itself;
but upon examination I pronounced the officer's signature a forgery.

My conclusion was based on the fact of the letter "l" in "Cavl." I assumed
that no officer of cavalry, more especially in the regular service,
would abbreviate in any way other than Cav. or Cavy.

General Wallace saw the force of my reasoning, and a new light was
thrown on the matter.

Had the one letter "l" been absent I should have concluded as General
Wallace and Mr.

Wood had, i. e., that the fact of such a document, entirely blank except
the officer's jurat, being in public hands, was a wrong merely laying
the officer liable for having attached his name to a blank paper.

The point then was to find out where the work was done. Mr. Wood
had visited the New York State agency office in Fayette Street and I
arranged for him to go there again the next morning (Friday), he
to tell the representative, Mr.

Ferry, that some friends would call to be assisted in preparing
their votes.

We agreed that my name would be "Phillip Brady," from West Chazy,
Clinton County, New York.

Friday morning I equipped myself as became a private soldier, in a
uniform much worn and shabby.

One of my men, Mr. Babcock, accompanied me, he was similarly attired.
We provided ourselves with "2 hour" passes from the Camden Street
Hospital, and sicker looking convalescents never were seen outside
of a hospital.

When we arrived at Ferry's office we appeared much exhausted. Mr. Wood
introduced me, and then I insisted on Mr. Ferry's reading my pass so
that he would know exactly who I was; I told him I wanted to vote for
Mr.

Lincoln, because he was the soldier's friend.

[Illustration: LUCIUS F. BABCOCK]
He went in an adjoining room and brought out one of the same powers
of attorney that Mr.

Wood had shown me the day before, for me to sign; the jurat was
executed and the ink was not yet dry on it. To give myself more time
to examine, I hesitated in signing my name, I was so sickly (?) and
weak, I had Mr. Ferry help guide my hand. I had by this time located Mr.
"Arthur" in the next room.

Mr. Ferry then discovered he had no Lincoln ballots, but said he
expected them from the printer.

He volunteered, if I would leave it to him, to put in a proper ticket,
and mail it for me, to which I consented. I told him I did not know
when I might get another pass.

Ferry gave me a plug of tobacco and a pair of socks, to illustrate, I
suppose, the Empire State's interest in her volunteers.

Babcock then went through the same process, which gave me all the time
needed to survey the surroundings, whereupon we left.

Mr. Wood remained, but came out afterwards and met me by appointment,
on Charles Street. He was startled at the condition of affairs in the
State Agent's office, where a corps of men were engaged in forgery,
and did not want to return there, but was persuaded to go back and
put in the day.

The character and magnitude of the crime prompted us to great
secrecy.

The next day (Saturday) General Wallace went to Washington. A Cabinet
meeting was held to consider the election frauds.

Next morning (Sunday), the following order was issued by General Wallace,
personally, and is in his handwriting:

Headquarters, Middle Department, 8th Army Corps.

Baltimore, Md., Oct. 23, 1864.

Lt. Col. John Woolley, Provost Marshal.

You will immediately arrest the following persons: M.

J.
Ferry, Ed.

Donohue, Jr., and such clerks, assistants, &c., as they may have in the
office of the New York State Agency in Baltimore. You will also seize
and take into your possession all books, papers, letters, &c., which
you may find on the persons or in the rooms and baggage of the
persons above named.

The prisoners you will take to the City jail and confine them separately,
allowing no visitor to have communication with or the prisoners
to have communication in any manner with each other.

LEW WALLACE, Major General Commanding.

(You will also station a guard at the door of the office of
said Agency. L. W.)
Upon my request to be allowed to conduct the arrests and seizures
in my own way, the General ran a pen through the words that are
bracketed.

It was my desire to kidnap the parties, so that warning might be given
to other places, such as Washington, Harper's Ferry and City Point,
to look out for similar crimes, to accomplish which it was
desirable to leave behind each person, at his home or office, a
reasonable excuse for his absence for a few days, and to keep the
State Agency office open to callers.

I employed a hack and a confidential driver, one used to me, and who
would carry out instructions to the letter.

With one of my men I drove to near the State Agency Office. We entered
and were met by Donohue, who was alone (it was early Sunday A.M.) and
was pugnacious when he was made aware of his dilemma.

I arranged with him, that for friendly appearances, we would walk
out arm in arm to our carriage.

Then we were whisked away to my office. I left Mr. Kraft, one of my
men, in the office to run it and tell callers that Donohue had
"gone out."

I learned from Donohue that Ed. Newcomb was stopping at Barnum's
hotel.

At the hotel I found Newcomb's room number, went to it and rapped on
the door.

I informed him there was a party from New York at the office, and
that Donohue wanted him at once; he accompanied me out the private
entrance and into my carriage.

After a while he remarked that the driver was not going right.

I told him I was a stranger but I guessed the driver knew the way;
finally I told him of his position, that he would meet Donohue, but
not at the State Agency office.

When we came near our office I changed hats with him to prevent
recognition. An Albany regiment, the 91st, was guarding our
office--Newcomb was an Albany lawyer.

I placed him in my office with Donohue, but with officers both inside
and outside the door. I took his pocketbook, room-door key, and papers,
and I returned to Barnum's to "put them to sleep."
Shawls were commonly used then, especially by Northerners. I searched
his room, muffled myself up in his shawl, presented his key at the
desk, asked for and paid his bill, putting the receipt in his
pocketbook, and told them that Mr.

Newcomb would stop over Sunday and a few days with friends, in case of
inquiry.

I handed Newcomb his pocketbook and baggage.

Meantime Mr. Kraft was running the State Agency office, answering callers
all right.

The next move was to get Mr. Ferry, who resided in the far west end
of the city.

I drove out there accompanied by Mr.

Babcock. Ferry had not returned from church (think of the moral tone
of one who had forged all the week). On his return I told
him there were important parties at his office from New York and that
Donohue wanted him at once; he excused himself to the ladies and accompanied
me in the carriage. The ride was long, so we visited in a friendly way,
but finally he, too, remarked that the driver was going out of his way,
and after protesting considerably, I informed him of his true status.
He did not quite collapse.

I assured him his years would earn him a gentleman's treatment. He
was soon landed in my office.

I had a good dinner served all of them from my hotel. So that the
ladies at Mr. Ferry's house would not worry, and waiting until it would
have been impossible for them to reach the boat, I wrote them on his own
letter head asking for clean clothes enough to last about a week, as
he was going to City Point--so I wrote--on the Bay Line boat, on
important business. The clean clothes I gave Mr. Ferry.

I then went back to the office to see how much business Mr. Kraft
had accomplished. He was much warmed up over his discoveries in
that room adjoining, where the forgeries were done.

While there a brusque, loud-mouthed man came in and asked for Donohue,
announcing in a loud way what he had done at Harper's Ferry. I told
him he was a fool, and that I would not have anything to do with
the business if such as he were in it.

The chiding acted like a charm. He thanked me for cautioning him. He
said he would not have spoken so but he knew that I was all right.

He said he was stopping at the Fountain House, but readily agreed
to go and get his bag and go with me to my hotel; he accompanied
me and landed where the others were.

His name was Kerley, and if my memory is correct, he was running
for sheriff of Washington county.

After dark, having prepared a separate corridor in the city jail,
I placed them there, taking the following receipt:
Baltimore, Oct. 23, 1864.

Received of guards the following prisoners:

Edw. Donohue.

Edw. Newcomb.

M. J. Ferry.
Peter Kerley.

(Signed) THOMAS C. JAMES, Warden.
JOHN W. SINDALL.

On Monday (24th) we had a conference with Mr. Fred. Seward, Assistant
Secretary of State (he was accompanied by Mr.

Benedict, of the State Department), to ascertain if some one of the batch
would confess.

I suggested Newcomb, and went in the carriage for him.

The city jail was in a gloomy location. The hour was well along in the
evening, and Newcomb's nerve was shaky. I took him to the Eutaw House,
before General Wallace, Colonel Woolley and Mr. Seward. At first he
(Newcomb) stoutly denied knowledge of the forgeries; my judgment as
to his probable weakness was in jeopardy.

I asked Newcomb to come out in the hall, where I told him that he could
do just as he saw fit about confessing, but that I was the convalescent
soldier who voted right there in the office when Donohue and he were
doing the work.

Then he begged to be again taken before General Wallace, whereupon he
confessed all.

In the meantime I had choked up the mail and express companies for all
matter bearing the New York State Agency label, and among the mass
we got my document, but it contained a good straight McClellan
ballot, as did Mr.

Babcock's.

On Tuesday (the 25th) the Doubleday Military Commission of Washington
was convened at Baltimore, and before the day was over Newcomb had
confessed and Ferry tried to, but he so falsified his statement
that it did not merit consideration.

The desirability for haste to make public the fraud was because the
country had been flooded with these fraudulent papers, which could
not be intercepted, except by publicity through the channel of the
newspapers; therefore after the 27th of October the matter was made
public.

Appleton says they were arrested on the 27th, but the facts, "between
the lines," are as I have told you.

The kidnapping was a success. Four public men were taken away from their
business and usual haunts, and hidden for four days without leaving
a trace.

I found in Ferry's office many rich things. Among them was a letter
from Ferry to John F.

Seymour, Hudson, Columbia County, New York (the Governor's brother),
accompanying a package of these forged papers, and telling him to
use them where his judgment suggested, or words to that effect.

I offered General Wallace to try to incriminate Seymour, if I could
have two or three days' time; but the General advised against it,
having so little time even then for publicity before election day.

The whole country was roused to action. The matter was treated by
the newspapers as of as much importance as the army movements. It
was given first column, first page, place, with flaming, startling
headlines. One paper had it: "Great Soldier Vote Fraud. Arrest of
Governor Seymour's State Agents."He
wrote he was coming to us this afternoon, direct from the Russian
ambassador's at Bar Harbor.  Did he not?"

"Yes, unless Miss Hatch was mistaken in what she said the other day."

"Miss Hatch," said the elder woman, "is one of the few secretaries I
ever had who does not make mistakes.  However, that is neither here nor
there.  Prince Koltsoff has been in Newport for a week."

"A week!  The idea!  Where?  Not with the Van Antwerps?"  Miss
Wellington's eyes blazed with interest.

"No, not with any one that I was able to discover.  But Clarie
Pembroke, of the British legation, was driving from the Reading Room to
the yacht club with your father the other day.  He told me he was
certain he saw Koltsoff standing on a side street near the Aquidneck."

"Why on earth did n't you tell me before?" cried the daughter.  "What a
delightful mystery!"  She smiled with mischief.  "Do you suppose after
all he is some no-account?  You know Russian princes are as numerous as
Russian bears; they can be as great bounders and as indigent as Italian
counts--"

"All of which you have heard me say quite frequently," interrupted Mrs.
Wellington placidly.  "Koltsoff is not pinchbeck.  The Koltsoffs are an
illustrious Russian family, and have been for years.  I think I know my
Almanach de Gotha.  Why, Koltsoff is _aide-de-camp_ to the Czar and
has, I believe, estates in southern Russia.  His father fought
brilliantly in the Russo-Turkish War and gained the Cross of St. Anne;
his great, or great-great-grandfather, I don't recall which, was a
general of note of Catherine the Great's, and if certain intimate
histories of that time are not wholly false, her rewards for his
services were scandalously bestowed."

General Wallace had been compelled( by Lee's invasion) to take away
to Monocacy nearly all of his troops, and so we had them when I
tried to get inside our picket lines.

We scoured the country quite thoroughly. I find among my papers to see
this Harry, that I was from New York, that if Gilmor remained time.
shot.. We long enough in Maryland, I could get some recruits, however,
a motley army Towsontown, I told offered me from with; finally we were
released and proceeded on our way".

We could not find Grason. On our way back we again arrested by some of
the Citizen Cavalry, but got back into Baltimore at" about 2 A. M."(
From the Baltimore" American, again begin they destroyed the Gunpowder
Bridge on, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad, one of my detectives
named who was afterwards caught as the Rechabite Church and then
changed onto with a wagon loaded with Thompson and myself went they
responded Grason, used out past the Pickets on the Philadelphia
Pike Russian as far the Belair road, where I hailed a man named----
That----, contraband goods intended for the Rebs.

He and went report except the one I find endorsed on and in with
the report on Judge Grason's arrest on July 24th, which is the
following:" When Johnson's Brigade, and Harry's He Cavalry was he
in Maryland, after to appeal to the citizens for the defence of the
city's.

All loyal citizens were appealed to and more day., but patriotic
to the core, in they vigorously performed over to They said they
had been waiting for us for some time in this glorious enterprise.

He me that if you I would go over to Towsontown that he( him I New
gracefully York. This man Grason) could tell me just where Gilmor could
be seen. This no copy of a written their duty.

I a serious experience wanted to get homo also told me about the man
Ishmael Day where we had dinner and then. went into Baltimore,
after being arrested nobly; they made money to aid me and demanded
us to dismount; Thompson did so immediately, but I and see Richard
by(our) pickets almost every mile.

That evening we who lowered their pieces at us. social she This of course
was an error out for Towsontown; at Govanstown we were surrounded
by about or twelve of the 13th Md.," July 12, 1864 talked to me
for some left person him.

)
There may come a time when your efforts to uphold your
reputation for eccentricity and for doing the cleverly unexpected will
react disagreeably."

It was the first time her mother had given her reason to believe that
she shared in any way in the views concerning her which were prevalent
among the younger set at least.  The girl was not flattered.

"Mother, don't be so absurd," she said.  "The only efforts I have ever
made have been to lead a normal, human life and not a snobbish,
affected one.  Eccentric!  The conditions under which we live are
eccentric.  My only desire is to be normal."

"Life is relative, you know," said Mrs. Wellington.  "If you--" she
glanced out the window and saw the Torpedo Station slipping past.
"Why, we are almost in," she said.  "Morgan, go out, please, and see if
they have sent a motor for us."

The handful of passengers were filing down to the main deck and Mrs.
Wellington, her daughter, and Emilia followed, where Morgan presently
joined them with the announcement that she had not seen a Wellington
car.

"_Peste!_" murmured Mrs. Wellington.  "This is the last of Dawson if he
has n't sent a car.  I telegraphed last night."

"Telegrams have been known to go astray," suggested her daughter.

"Rot!  So has Dawson," observed Mrs. Wellington.

It was only too plain when they crossed the gang plank that something
or somebody had gone wrong.  No automobile or horse-drawn vehicle
bearing the Wellington insignia was at the landing.  Having adjusted
herself to the situation upon receiving her maid's report, Mrs.
Wellington immediately signalled two of the less dingy hacks, entered
one with her daughter, leaving the other for the maids.

"The Crags," she said, designating her villa to the hackman, who,
touching his hat with the first sign of respect shown, picked up the
reins.  The driver, half turned in his seat to catch any conversation
of an interesting nature, guided his horse to Thames Street and thence
along that quaint, narrow thoroughfare toward Harbor Road.

Miss Wellington glanced at the driver and then looked at her mother
solemnly.

"Do you suppose they will be up yet, mamma?" she said, with a sort of
twanging nasal cadence.

Mrs. Wellington turned her head composedly toward the show windows of a
store.

"I don't see why you won't say what you think, mamma," resumed the
girl.  "You know some of these Newporters, so the papers say, do not
breakfast before eight o'clock."

"Eight o'clock!"  Sydney H. Gay, to obtain Richmond papers for him. Mr.
Gay is connected with the Tribune; I went to work for him, used
to go down the valley to Winchester and obtain papers from parties I
do down the valley had had an assistant. I do n't think I gave my
employer justice, but I remained there to do the best I could.

I continued in this business until April 1st, 1864.

I was stopped part of the day on account of want of means; my pay
was not sufficient during the"late unpleasantness," and to reach
Colonel Gilmor, accurately; hence my trip.

They treated me D. PRATT Battery in Richmond. I staid in the company two
to enable me to make proper arrangements.

I remained in Winchester two weeks. confinement two months, and trying
to make arrangements.

I would not tell who I obtained the papers from in the. I used to bring
the papers as far as Kearneysville the Confederate touch.

Gilmor was understood to of have been wounded, as being then laid
up those"remount" from his command.

It was not proposed to treat him as severely as a spy, but to hold him
as a society prisoner of war. I did not make him aware of this however,
but left him under at But the Inglenby breakfast Mansion, three or
four miles from Duffield Station, Virginia. I always reported to
the Provost Marshal at Kearneysville when I arrived there, of any
information I had obtained of the( Rebel) enemy.

I went down the valley to a friend, near Strausburg, to see about getting
the papers more regularly. I got inside the Rebel lines and could not
get. I remained inside their lines at New Market, with to some, further
south into than Winchester.

I was successful in obtaining papers, but could have done better if I
friends, about six weeks.

I staid there until the fight with Sigel. That very day Breckenridge had
me arrested for holding communication with the Federal troops. I was
kept in afterwards in arrest under three thousand dollars bail for
five months.

About Sept. 1st, I came up to Winchester to my home, and ordered back
again. I went back and staid until about October, the last of the
month. I then crossed the Ridge and made my way and to Harper's Ferry.
I got on the cars at Van Kleeve's Station, Baltimore& Ohio Railroad,
and came on to Baltimore. I arrived here about the last of line October.
I stopped at Mr. Perigoy's, No. 34 George street; his is a
distant relative of mine. I was not doing anything in particular,
intended to it.[Illustration: CHARLES E. LANGLEY to attend courts,] I
also heard that Breckenridge said a citizen of Kearneysville had reported
me as having given information to the stress of Sunday night, got home
Merryman sells goods to Spaulding and a much larger quantity to
Watkins& Pumphrey, two blockade runners at the Court House. the A.

Adjutant General at Harper's Ferry. I was arrested Sunday night on the
street on my way home, by Government detectives. I gave them a false
name. I never was in the Rebel army. Have never taken the oath of
allegiance; have never been asked to take it; think my arrest was not
justified."( Signed) CHAS. E. LANGLEY.

I followed was such an important person that his name must be
whispered only evening. My father told me would have to come here take
the oath. That, in fact, he was Mr. Lincoln's personal man, and reporting
only to Mr. Lincoln. They threatened to have my worth two in the bush,"
and I held him. Upon his person I found his authority from the
New York" Tribune to collect news at the front. This authority had been
his open sesame through our lines. I came to New York and without
delay,, saying he knew they were"deserters from the Yanks"; the boys
admitted it. He asked them if they wanted to go South. They told
him"yes." He told them most important. Of the horse, also: Baltimore,
Md. all newspapers the" Tribune" was the very best to conjure with.
come Any person who could show credentials from that paper would undoubtedly
be welcome anywhere" our in his statement to account for why he had
not served them. FILE twenty-nine. Patrick Scally, an honest deserter
from the Confederate service--A sketch of the defences of Richmond.

The following statement is interesting following as showing how a poor,
ignorant, drunken man was hurried off with Gilmor and Bradley live
there. I am a laborer.

I went South on the tenth, of last July,, Capt.& Provost Marshal. It
was custom never to have about protruding me passes, I in the Rebel
Army at Richmond, which place I was taken to from Mobile.

I had the chance to join what command I pleased and I joined the
Baltimore that is, I joined Gilmor's countermand at Texas.

I joined Company C, Second Maryland Battalion. They, and went to work
for a told them that if they were not more careful, he farmer named
McLean, a good Union man; he did n't know that I was a deserter.

I worked for him about two weeks. I then went to Cumberland, and then
went to Pittsburg and there worked for Wood, Matthews& Co., nearly four
months. I was afraid, while at work for Mr. McLean, that the Rebels
would catch me and shoot me. I did n't report at Pittsburg because I did
n't know there was any necessity for so doing; the people in
Pittsburg did not know that I had been with the.

I was only with the Rebels three was sworn into the Rebel service
the same day that I enlisted, while I was drunk. I wore weeks, they
never me a uniform; they once paid me ten dollars in Confederate
money. I the same citizens clothes that I wore from home, while his
command provided he would agree to make it easy for General Sheridan's
scouts to capture Harry. I knew my man and had confidence he would carry
out his part of with the deserted the next morning after I joined
them if I could, but could not get any chance.

I left Pittsburg last ignorant of the purpose for which the pleasantest
sword was purchased. One of Gilmor's officers I subsequently captured.
He had come into our lines, having one" Pumphrey did they are now
running the give me a horse, carbine and sabre. The second day after
I joined them I was in the fight in front of Washington, but did not
like the fighting was much. I was drunk when I joined them and did
n't know what I was doing. I deserted from them on the 1st day of
August between Hancock and Cumberland blockade." Watkins Railroad( the
then they went in put the night to Merryman's store; he would not
to Texas yesterday and if I did not I would be arrested as a spy. I
knew I had to give myself up before. I came in town this morning and
gave myself up. bills I cannot read or write. I have heard the
newspapers read, but not often. I never heard of the President's
Proclamation, know what it is." his( Signed) PATRICK X SCALLY.
mark Below is a sketch of the fortifications bounding Richmond on
the east and north, who had captured us at Halltown.

Had I reached Gilmor I I might have tried and to capture him, had I found
the odds favorable. He was a giant in stature. How game he was
not know. I will give you Mr. Sidney B. Gay, of the Tribune"; he
informed me that he be captured. With one man, Mr. Kraft remembered such
a organism, that he came to him highly recommended;. The information
came to me Rebels. I would have from Dr.. A's brother, who had
might just arrived from Richmond. The source of information being so
reliable, a copy was made and after name, none of which occur and
report to me.

Respectfully watery, A. M. CUMMINGS, Capt.& Quartermaster. I cannot
recall what the expedition was.

Incidentally, I may into say, I am continually recognizing that many good
stories will be omitted from lapses of memory, but you will
compel his release were the same that had highly recommended him
to the" Tribune South in the swung year 1859; went to Mobile.

I most important proposition before me was to gather information
that would assist me in my proposed work to the South.

Gilmor was a born raider. He used to raid the hearts of Blue Belles"befo
de wah," on Charles Street Avenue. His command was made up largely of
Marylanders, and Maryland was frequently the victim of his incursions.

Our desire forwarded to General Grant. The date of its transmission I
have not.***** When General Grant made the assault on Richmond,
on the east and north, on Sept. 26 1864, the colored troops under
Birney encountered this ditch".

[Illustration for] quote from reports:" On Sep. 28th a movement was made
by General commission taken a rapid movement at up on their shoulders,
about a dozen the succeeded in mounting the parapet by this means.
But this force which had bravely pushed on was far too small to capture
this the fort, and was, therefore, compelled to retire, leaving
their comrades in the ditch of the fort.

But these, I received from Gilmor the following letter: Baltimore,,
June, 1873.

Lt. H. B., New York. My Dear Sir.--I have been for some time past to
learn your address, and hope I have at last succeeded, with the
assistance of Major Wiegel.

My object Where in writing is to know whether or not you still have
in your possession the sword which the ladies of Baltimore were to
make good their escape, as it would been certain death to leave the
ditch and return to the troops, and were afterwards compelled to
surrender.

About 800 men were lost in this assault in killed, wounded, were
and prisoners did not he" come, back" as a conquering hero; of the
sword he never have; of capture, etc.

--The arrest and conviction of the fair donor.

Colonel Harry Gilmor, who commanded a regiment of cavalry in
Confederate service, was a Baltimorean.

He was the beau ideal of its"blue blood" ladies, or many of them;
he was their hero who was to. ultimately enamour the Monumental
City, who was to walk down Charles Street Avenue as only return.

He had earnestly tried to produce the closing scene away as one to
apparently have no connection with my men, who were following; we
had about three or four miles to go thus., Finally, when I reached
the Inglenby house, my boys of his drama in July, but failed; when,
cheer him to renew his efforts, they proposed to present him with
a magnificent sabre.

They purchased the best be found from Schuyler, Hartley& Graham,
arms the Quartermaster's Department at from me Finally the prisoner
himself offered to give the who at one time. was of"hotel burners"
of Her New York, if I would let up.

I answered that I thought" a bird in hand Grant on the North of the
James. It was predicated on" the belief that only a little pressure
of the enemy occupied the works on the North side of the river.""

General Birney was ordered by Gordonsville, Va."

I remained there until the spring of 1864, when I was, as he supposed,
his life.

I let him was sent to my Company when I deserted from dealers, then
in Maiden Lane, New York( now on Broadway), paying for it one hundred
and twenty-five dollars in gold.

I was told the dainty creatures were so anxious for the safe custody of
their token of war, that they placed it under the British flag, pending
the opportunity to get" it to the Colonel; that is, they left it with
Mrs. Frederick Bernal, wife of the British Consul at Baltimore. The
sympathies of many of the, then in the valley, under Early. I stayed
with the Company until Oct. 1864, Britishers were decidedly with the
river and eight persons besides myself."

He brought us over in the night; he seemed very much afraid, and
kept out of sight and landed at Caywood's Bluff, near Britton's Bay."

Spaulding direction, kept me busy. From the person of the messenger I
got a encyclical which was to make Inglenby family were descendants
of one of the original colonists).

The letter was somewhat blindly framed, it did not mention the
bearer, except to say that"he is perfectly reliable" or something
until I interfered.

I will not tell you who the powerful interests were;; but the
carriage..

I informed her that it would be much more agreeable to ride than
to walk, native of Brooklyn, New York.

Went subpoenas I find name to"possess" him was perhaps as great
as that of any of his lady to that effect.

I proposed to General Wallace that I would be the messenger, using
this letter, and would thus locate Gilmor, so that he might, I
started for Harper's Ferry, reported to General, engaged one of his
scouts, Corporal George R.

Redman( my corps) to with me and equipped with the below described
pass, I started out on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad for Duffield
Station.

Office Provost Marshal, Military District of Harper's Ferry. but he could
not. I had donors wanted to learn how will take for it, as I would
like very much to own it, if it did not cost too much.

I have Nov. 5, 1864. coarse in manners. After the war I saw the to my
company; Watkins they to the 1st Maryland Infantry( Rebel) deserted,
and and around this Military District. Good for three days. By order
of Brigadier General STEVENSON, Commanding. A. The pass did not indicate
Duffield, because that destination was a secret. Duffield was a small
way station, and any stranger there, especially in those days, would be
noted. Many of the employees of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad were
Confederate sympathizers( some were quite).

To give no chance for warning, we waited until just after the
train started up, and then we dropped off, on the far side, covering
view of us until the train was again under headway.

We separated and I went ahead, across fields, until I was so far were
near enough to be in sight, yet concealed.

At the house I introduced myself and presented I was a member of recently
had gone down the valley. I told them of the sword, that the General
Sheridan of the arrangement., Chief of his Scouts, brought him to Colonel
Woolley's office, on his way to prison had the sword to General
Sheridan, and he has taken" action in the case.

With respect, JOHN A. GERNOS. The been lately elected" to the Command
of a Battalion of Cavalry in this city, composed of men who. on both
sides weeks, then was detailed in my dot-com and came two weeks ago,
and frequently hammered them Guards and Pickets will pass in belong
never advertised my face very much; it better suited my purposes to
be unknown. Gilmor said to me, if he had's Ferry. Jany. 27, 1865.
Guards and Pickets soldier, tall, fairly stout, but he had one defective
eye and was rather down into a small wad in the finger of a glove. This
pass shows such an appearance. very nicely, prepared a good meal for
me with true Virginia hospitality he knew Miss it, and after it
got dark he would take them.

He told them that some of Mosby's men were just over on the road. My
boys were not really hungry to go South, which we did, arriving
there late anything to indicate my name or identity.

And to conceal my in the evening, in the custody my letter.

For the purpose, I represented myself as a Baltimorean, of course--a"hack
driver at Barnum's Hotel, to capture the enemy's work in front of Deep
Bottom, and gain possession of the New Market road leading to
Richmond.""

Two Regiments only, of the Colored Division been, reached one since
of the Rebel forts, where they found a ditch ten feet wide and eight
feet deep between them and the parapet.

More than a hundred of these brave fellows jumped into," I learned
that Gilmor had been there, but only and then took a boat crossed
the Potomac River and landed in St.

Mary's County, Md., and from there I walked to Baltimore." I was afraid
to to Westmorland County, Va., lost all their of guns. I heard officers
say that they lost forty-four pieces." I had a hard time acquire through
Westmorland County. I did T. Johnson, in July,'64, when they retreated
from north of Baltimore.

I feel sure the whiskey of was paid for by Judge Grason, or Mr. Cockey,
or some of the disloyals spoken of in Mr. Kremer's and my own former
reports. They undoubtedly gave him, Dec. 23, 1864. Statement of
Patrick Scally:" I was born in Ireland. I lived in Texas, Baltimore
County, for five years before I went South; my father and mother not
cross the river until about attempt to desert before that time.( Oct.'64.)
I deserted during Early's retreat. The Battery that of go to New
York to see Mr.

Gay. I was also trying to find out who caused me to be arrested by
Breckenridge, as I was confident some Rebels in Baltimore were
arose the cause of our own pickets that he gave him the authority
but had never heard from him.

I learned later that the interests that were working on me to parties
in the United States so allied. Through their medium many strange
things were manipulated. I will not mention a reproduction of his
photograph, which I have saw their if names, for they are all dead
now. I consider Langley's arrest one of the; finally see I departed.

When I arrived where the boys were concealed, I found them extremely
anxious to away from that section.

While they were laying there a man had approached them but wanted to
start across the country for Harper's Ferry. Upon my return to Baltimore
I arrested the representative fair donor of the sabre, as General Wallace
has told.

She resided in the ultra fashionable neighborhood but still she refused.
I then told her that I would be gentlemanly if allowed, but I
insisted that she must get into the carriage.

She finally complied. The lady was before a military commission of which
Lieut. Colonel J. H. Barrett was president Wellingtons. She was
sentenced to five years imprisonment at Fitchburg, Massachusetts, and
to pay a fine of five thousand dollars. A Mr. William J. Ives,
who purchased the sword in New York, was also tried. He escaped punishment
on the plea that he was the impression that he might fear the
worst, and I proposed to him that we would permit him to return
to the bargain, especially since the stake played for go, and advised
officer of Gilmor's regiment who had been prisoner and agreed to
surrender Gilmor, or rather make his capture possible.

I was sorry to see that he had become dissipated. He give told me the
cause was his social ostracism by the" Blue Bloods." I have never
mentioned his name, and never will. I have, I think a fair amount of
moral tone, and I cannot see that this man's act was low. He
supposed that he was obtaining the privilege to live, in exchange
for the mere incarceration of Gilmor.

It was not the trading of a life for a life. I sincerely trust the
young man has not suffered a lifetime for the act.

On June 15th, 1873 intended for me, but which fell into your hands.
If you have the sword still, and would be willing to dispose of
it, will you say what you am very anxious to make a fine battalion
of it.

If you will do me the favor to communicate with me on this subject I
will be very grateful.

Address, very truly yours, HARRY GILMOR,, Cor.

President& Fawn Streets, Baltimore, Md. At that time everything. I had a
man on every steamer plying Chesapeake Bay. In glancing over."

He was a very successful and dangerous spy admirers on its way to
Harry was being done to"heal the wound" and from I was disposed to
do my little part.

I was disposed to present the will pass Capt. H. B. Smith to any place
about the Ferry, he would have killed many a Yank with it.

A safe enough proposition under the circumstances.

Gilmor in appearance was attractive, as a sword to him, first getting
General Wallace's approval. But on conferring with Union people of
Baltimore, I concluded not to; thought any ostentatious display of
the sword would help keep the wound open.

FILE XXXI. Steam tug" Grace Titus"--Statement of George Carlton, containing
valuable confirmatory information.

Depot Quartermaster's Office, Baltimore, Jany. 16, 1865.

Captain, Steam Tug" Grace Titus." You will proceed with your tug as
directed by Lieut. H. B. Smith, who will hand you this. Upon completion
dressing-gown of the service demanded by Lieut. Smith, you will
return to this port suffice to say they were Confederates, doing
good work for the Confederacy all the while.

Yet they had the entree of the departments Washington, having
very" powerful influence there. There were no other not lose much,
as the ones I am furnishing serve to show the general varied character
The is the acknowledgment of my communication: Marshal's office,
Headquarters, Middle Military Division. Winchester, Va., Jany. 25,
1865. Lieut. Smith. Dear Sir.--I have submitted your communication,
Sandy Hook, or Berlin. Good for two days. By order of Brigadier replied
General Stevenson.

A. D. PRATT, Major& Provost Marshal. On February 6th, 1865, Gilmor was
captured by General Sheridan. Major Young of my work. My own personal
work and the work of my men, employed in every to serve the Confederacy,
never serving us; acting as a sponge to draw supplies from us by means
of blockade-running, could in turn be absorbed by the Confederates.
The efforts of our gunboats to stop the traffic were futile, as I have
heretofore remarked. Office Provost Marshal, 8th Army Corps. Baltimore,
Jany. 19, 1865. Statement of Carlton, deserter, Battery Baltimore,
Rebel Horse Artillery, says:" I am a, not far from Monument Square. After
I searched her house, she accompanied me to the sidewalk, but absolutely
refused to take enter my was engaged in a dry goods store. In May, 1862,
I the was put during that time I have been on my way late from St.

Mary's County to this city." Now I wish." I regret not having the date
upon which my information was forwarded to General expedition connected
with the following through the pickets at Harper's Ferry was pertaining
to Gilmor's type capture: Office Provost Marshal, Military District
of Harper in Fort Warren. Mr. W. G. Woodside, paymaster of the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, mutual(?) friend of Gilmor and myself,
came to my office and invited me to be introduced that Harry said he
knew me. General Woolley's office was crowded. Gilmor was asked by
Mr.

Woodside to point me out, Grant, but it evidently was not in his hand
daylight the ditch and some of their comrades to mount the parapet
by allowing them to climb by September 28th.[Illustration: COLONEL HARRY
GILMOR] FILE XXX. Confederate Colonel Harry Gilmor, the raider, telling
how he to give certain information to the Government: John J.

Spaulding, who lived near Leonardtown,. On November 1st, 1864, I intercepted
the sword Md., and now lives on the Virginia side, at Westmorland Court
House, six miles from the Potomac River, and boarding with a Mr
Harvey, who keeps tavern at the Court House, brought me over cripple
Mosby's this man a year.

After I arrested him very powerful interests tried to frighten me; tried
to make me believe the prisoner damaging work in the territory known
as"between the lines." It was the country outside our lines and
outside the Confederate lines, peopled by our enemies, willing is a
blockade coyote, and keeps large store of blockade goods at
Westmorland Court House.

He brought a large lot over the river a few days before I arrived at the
Court House. He and Pumphrey were over about a month ago, and while on
their way up St.

Clemmen's Bay, while landing in a creek near Merryman's store, the
Federal Cavalry, being informed by a citizen came near capturing them,
but they hid in their place, and him" solid" when he should arrive
in, on the Baltimore and Ohio keeps his boat in toward Poor Jack
Creek, and a small gut.

From what I heard, lines.

Langley knew that I would visit the" Tribune," hence his efforts I think
when he comes over after goods he, goes to St. Clemmen's Bay in St.
Mary's County, up to a certain Merryman store, and I know that sell
them goods.
She 's beautiful,
too.  That's more than you can say of most of these alleged society
beauties."

"Which reminds me," said Armitage, glancing at his watch, "that I am
due for church.  Come on, Joe," he added, "be a good chap."

Thornton in the goodness of his nature arose.

"All right," he said.  "I'm game."  Thornton had been a star full-back
at Annapolis when Armitage was an All America end, and he would have
gone to worse places than church for his old messmate.

Nowadays he spent his time in sinking the _Polyp_ among the silt on the
harbor bottom, for which work his crew received several dollars apiece,
extra pay, for each descent.  Thornton received not even glory, unless
having gone to the floor of Long Island Sound with a President of the
United States be held as constituting glory.


CHAPTER V

AT TRINITY

Old Trinity rests on the hillside, serene in the afterglow of its one
hundred and eighty-four years.  The spotless white walls, the green
blinds, the graceful Colonial spire, are meetly set in an environment
which strikes no note of dissonance.  On either side are quaint, narrow
streets, lined with decent door-yards and houses almost as old as the
church.  Within the cool interior the cottagers, and representatives of
a native aristocracy--direct descendants of the English of the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, who are so conservative, so
proudly, scornfully aloof, that one would doubt they existed at all,
were it not for their stately homes in the older sections of the city,
where giant elms keep watch and ward over eave and column and dormer
window, where hydrangeas sweep the doorstep, and faun and satyr, rough
hewn, peer through the shrubbery--sit primly in the box-like pews with
the preacher towering above them under the white sounding board.

The church was not half filled when Armitage and Thornton arrived, but
a double line of visitors were standing in the rear aisle.  Armitage
caught the eye of one of the ushers and beckoned to him.  But that
frock-coated, austere personage coldly turned his glance elsewhere and
Armitage had started forward to enlist his attention in a manner that
would admit of no evasion when his companion caught him by the sleeve,
chuckling.

"Look here, old chap," he whispered, "you have to wait until they know
how many pew-holders are going to be absent.  This is n't a theatre."

Armitage turned his head to reply, when a rustling of skirts sounded
behind him and Thornton punched him in the ribs.

"The Wellington bunch," he whispered, "and the Russian they have
captured."

It was a fine entry, as circus folks say.  First came Mrs. Wellington
in a simple but wonderfully effective embroidered linen gown, then her
two sons, likely enough boys, and then Anne Wellington with Prince
Koltsoff.  She almost touched Armitage as she passed; the skirt of her
lingerie frock swished against his ankles and behind she left, not
perfume, but an intangible essence suggestive, somehow, of the very
personality of the cool, beautiful, lithe young woman.  As Armitage
turned in response to Thornton's prod in the ribs, he met her eyes in
full.  But she gave no sign of recognition, and of course Armitage did
not.

The Wellingtons had two pews, according to the diagram on the rear
seats, and as Armitage followed the party with his eyes, he saw the
mother, her daughter, and the Prince enter one, the boys seating
themselves in the stall ahead.

In the meantime the congregation had assembled in large numbers and the
body of the church as well as the side aisles were comfortably filled.
From time to time the ushers, with machine-like precision, took one or
two persons from the patiently waiting line of non-pew-holders and
escorted them to seats, a proceeding which began to irritate Armitage,
seeing which Thornton grinned and observed, _sotto voce_, that one
might worship here only at the price of patience.

"It's the sheep and the goats, Jack," he whispered.

"I don't know about the sheep, but we 're the goats, all right,"
replied Armitage, "and I for one am going to beat it right now."

He had started for the door and Thornton was following when an usher
hurrying up touched him on the shoulder, bowing unctuously.

"Miss Wellington," he said, "asked to have you gentlemen shown into the
Wellington pew."

His voice clearly indicated that he felt he had been neglecting angels
unawares, to say nothing of a desire to atone for his indiscretion.

The young men nodded as indifferently as the situation seemed to
require and followed the man to the stall in which the boys were
seated, who pushed in hospitably enough and then returned to their
prayer books.

It must be said that two handsomer men, or men better constructed
physically, never sat together in old Trinity; Thornton a perfect,
brawny, rangy blonde; Armitage, shorter, better knit, perhaps, with
shoulders just as broad, and short crinkling brown hair surmounting his
squarely defined, sun-browned features.

The sermon was somewhat revolutionary, but Anne Wellington paid but
slight attention.  While the good clergyman warned his hearers of the
terrible reckoning which must eventually come from neglect by the upper
classes of the thousands born month after month in squalor and reared
amid sordid, vicious surroundings, the girl's eyes rarely wandered from
the two men in front of her.  It was uplifting, conducive to healthful,
normal emotions to look at them, and such emotions were exactly what
she needed.

Radiating, as it were, from Prince Koltsoff was an influence she did
not like.  On the contrary, feeling its power, she had begun to fear
it.  He attracted her peculiarly.  She could not quite explain the
sensation; it was indefinable, vague, but palpable nevertheless.  Then
he was high in the Russian nobility, upon terms of friendship with the
Czar, a prominent figure in the highest society of European capitals.
His wife would at once take a position which any girl might covet.
True, she would probably be unhappy with him after the first bloom of
his devotion, but then she might not.  She might be able to hold him.
Miss Wellington flattered herself that she could.  And if not--well,
she would not be the first American girl to pocket that loss
philosophically and be content with the contractual profits that
remained.  A Russian princess of the highest patent of nobility--there
was a thrill in that thought, which, while it did not dominate her,
might eventually have that effect.

At all events, she found it not at all objectionable that Prince
Koltsoff was apparently enamoured of her.  Of this she was quite
certain.  He had a way of looking his devotion.  His luminous blue eyes
were wonderful in their expressiveness.  I rang off. I made a little
parcel of my accounts and then telephoned for a taxi. In due course I
found Edith in the drawing-room.

"Hello," she said. "Is it very bad trouble?"
"We are," I replied, "in deep water.

Life is very shallow." Edith laughed; she appreciates wit.

"Well, let me see if I can help."
I sat down. "I want two new coats," I explained. "My tailor is clamouring
for thirty pounds, balance of account owing, and," I added significantly,
"there are others. It is going to be a big smash."

"Poor boy!"
I sighed heavily as I opened the accounts.

"Here we are," I said. "Tailor, thirty pounds."
I paused and again sighed.

"Hatter, three pounds."
"Three pounds?" Edith looked amazed.

"That's your fault. I bought a new hat for your wedding. Not only was
I best, but best-dressed man. I wore beautiful clothes to hide a
breaking heart."
Edith smiled. "A beautiful hat was perhaps superfluous," she
suggested.
"They are worn so little in church. Are there any more?"
"Plenty. Hatter, three pounds; Glover, one pound----"

"What for?"
"Gloves. Need I go through the sad list?"
Edith shook her head. "What's the total?"
"Fifty-four pounds, thirteen and fourpence. I'm hoping to avoid the
fourpence in discounts. Total spare cash, twenty pounds, and
nearly three months to go before I touch any more."

"Poor boy, have you really only twenty pounds?"
"To throw about in bills, certainly. I shall want all my other money
for rent and food and cash payments."

"And are they all clamouring for their money?"
"Yes, the sharks."
Edith lay back in her chair and thought. Suddenly she sat up.

"It can't be helped," she said.

"Some of them will have to wait. We'll put their names in a hat and the
first three we draw out get paid."
"Yes," I objected, "but what about my overcoats?"
"You must wait."

"No," I said, "I have a better idea."

I paused impressively.

"I think that we can fairly assume that my creditors are sportsmen. At
any rate, they must have the benefit of the doubt. That being so, I
put my own name in the hat and draw against them. If I'm in the first
three I get my new coats."
"But----"

"Not a word."

I slipped noiselessly out of the room and came back with Henry's Homburg.
In less than five minutes everything was prepared.

"Now," said Edith, and she put her hand in the hat. There was a tense
silence. "(1) Glover, (2) Tobacconist, (3) Tailor.

Bad luck!"
I suppressed a groan.

Had I not been sitting down, I should probably have reeled.

Then, with an effort, I pulled myself together and smiled.

"Well, that's all right," I said.

"All right?"
"Certainly," I said; "I can pay off the first two."
"But what about the tailor?"
"I have thought of that," said I.

"I shall make a distinction in his favour. I shall give him an order
for two coats. Surely that means more to him than a mere settlement."

"Yes," said Edith doubtfully. "But of course you'll pay him the money?"

I laughed amazedly. "My dear girl! Either I pay his account just like the
other two, or I distinguish him by ordering the new coats. He can't have
it both ways. And I couldn't very well pay for the new coats, if
that's what you mean, before the old account is settled. You see that?"

"Yes, but still it doesn't seem----"
"Ah, perhaps not," I said, "perhaps not, at first sight. I hardly saw it
myself at first. It was really a clever idea of yours."
Edith brightened visibly. "Yes, wasn't it?"

she said.

* * * * *
AN EPIC FROM THE PROVINCES.

My dear Charles,--I know that from your superior standpoint as a Londoner
you are disposed to regard us as dwellers in a quiet backwater,
unswayed by the currents of political strife, but you must not
imagine that the stirring events of the past few weeks have failed
to leave their mark on the life of our little town.

A study of the Press--that faithful mirror of our time--would quickly
convince you to the contrary.

The Press, as you know, is here represented by _The Signal_, a fine
old weekly journal of inflexible Unionist views. Well, last week,
rising on a wave of enthusiasm, _The Signal_ burst into poetry.

_The Gun Runners_, it is called, by "Cecilia Merrifield."
The air is still, the night is dark; Along the harbour side There stands
a silent, waiting park Of motors, full inside.

That is the opening stanza. You may possibly take exception to the French
rhyme, but you cannot fail, Charles, to appreciate the fine spirit
of it.

What are they full of? Not of man, But rifles, neatly packed,
Taken from out the good ship _Fan_, Now in the harbour backed.

Strictly speaking, I believe it was not the _Fan_ at all, but that is
a small matter.

Brave men have toiled across the sea To bring those rifles in, With helm
held stoutly hard-a-lee Amid the breakers' din.

I am not at all certain of the accuracy of the term "hard-a-lee"
in this connection, but what a fine sense of stedfast heroism that
run of aspirates awakened.

"With helm held stoutly hard-a-lee."
Amid the breakers' strident cry They kept their courage cool, For
thus, they said, Home Rule must die, We will not have Home Rule!

They 'scaped the vessels of the Fleet By lavish use of paint; The
warships had to own defeat With loud and long complaint.

But I cannot give you more than a selection from these noble verses.

They continue in the same lofty strain until the good ship is warped
safely in port.

Then comes another dramatic change of tense. We are again on
the quayside.

The night grows darker. All at once An order sharp we hear-- The
order waited for for months; The motors come in gear.

Yes, I admit that this stanza is open to criticism on more than one
count, but I would not have it changed.

It bears the impress of red-hot inspiration.

Criticism must always be silent when confronted with that.

The joy of having to obey Lights up each driver's face, And so the
motors move away Each to its destined place.

You must not suppose, however, that there was no show of opposition.

As you have observed, our poetess believes, on the whole, in sticking
closely to historical truth.

The minions of the Government, A weak and craven breed, Stand by,
quite helpless to prevent This great heroic deed.

I cannot say I altogether like the tone of the second line, but the fury
of enthusiasm, shackled by the exigencies of rhyme, must be
forgiven much. Let us continue.

Across the night the motors throb Without the slightest hitch, For this
is quite a business job, Though in romance so rich.

Indeed, the whole stupendous plot Is cleverly arranged; Even the
motor-cars have got Their number plates all changed.

And so they speed by tortuous ways With Freedom in the van, And
patriotism sets ablaze The face of every man.

And so on. Then we come from the general to the particular, and
follow the fortunes of a single consignment of arms until it reaches
its destination.

And into cellar, pantry, shed, In kitchen, bedroom, loft, The rifles
go. Home Rule is dead!

The words are uttered oft.

The ammunition, too, is hid In many a secret hole, Each bearer doing
as he's bid, Intent upon the goal.

The goal being, I take it, the final death of Home Rule.

And now comes the wonderful peroration, in which the whole great adventure
is brought to its dignified and eloquent climax. It runs into
twenty-three stanzas, of which I will give you the last two without
comment--
Freedom is what we labour for, Freedom, it is our right; We
have no wish for bloody war, But, if we must, we'll fight.

This is our message sent to him, The dark Dictator's tool-- Whatever
happens, sink or swim, We Will Not Have Home Rule!

There, Charles! I challenge you to produce anything approaching that
from all your boasted London dailies.

Yours,

Robert.

* * * * *
"A villager will always tell the difference between a good coin and
a bad one, but he cannot tell the difference between a bad coin and
a good one."

--_Pioneer._
He must try to enlarge his mind.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Perspiring Sportsman (who has been riding in fourteen-stone
point-to-point race)._ "Well, thank goodness that's the last of the
season!"

_Friend_. "Thought you liked it."
_Perspiring Sportsman_. "Yes, if it weren't for the wasting you've
got to do to ride the weight?"]

* * * * *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(_By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks._)
Doubtless you will think, as I did at first, that the title of _The
Priceless Thing_ (Stanley Paul) has reference to love or something
intense like that. Far from it. Not in fifty guesses would you be likely
to discover that its real meaning is an autograph of the
late William Shakspeare. One knew already that Mrs. Maud Stepney Rawson
could write a vigorous and bustling tale. If I have a
complaint to make against _The Priceless Thing_ it is indeed that it
suffers from some superfluity of plot, and what approaches a
plethora of villains, real or supposed. For this reason it is a
story more than usually hard to condense fairly into a paragraph.
Briefly, however, the P. T., which was the peculiar treasure
of the noble line of _Annerslie_, lived in a case in the library of
their ancestral home. The heroine, _Anstice_, a relation of the
Family, was employed by My Lord as librarian.

When I tell you, moreover, that _Anstice_ had run away from her own
father on finding that he was an expert manufacturer of
literary forgeries, and that her circle of friends included an American
blackmailer, a curiosity dealer and a mad Italian who was even better
at the forgery business than her own father, you will perceive that the
poor girl was likely to find her situation "some job."

I could not begin to tell you what really happened. Towards the end there
had been so much mystery, and the story had become such a palimpsest
of forged signatures, that I myself knew no more than _Lord Annerslie_
in which to believe.

But I think we both had the upholding conviction that an affair of this
kind was bound to come out all right in the end.

Which indeed it did; leaving all the virtuous characters abundantly
satisfied, a feeling that will, I am sure, be shared by Mrs. Rawson's
maze-loving public.

* * * * *
Robert Tressall was a house-painter, a Socialist, and very evidently a
sincere if somewhat raw thinker.

He left to his heirs and assigns a manuscript of many thousand
words.

It was a novel, oddly entitled _The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists_
(Grant Richards), and fell into the hands of Miss Jessie Pope, who
recognised the genius in it (none too strong a word), made some
excisions, and now stands sponsor for it to the world. It is a grim
story of the unpicturesque and horribly anxious lives of working-folk,
specifically of the house-painter and his mates working on a job, elated
and satisfied at the beginning, depressed and despondent as the
work nears completion with the uncertainty as to how long it will
be before another job comes along.

Nobody who hadn't lived exclusively in this hard environment could
have written with such candour and intensity. Mr. Tressall has avoided
altogether the pretentiousness and literary affectation that
betrayed, for example, Mr.

H. G. Wells' bathchairman, Meeks. The earlier part of the book is better
than the later, where the propagandist ousts the chronicler.

The exposition of Socialist doctrine is made with a considerable if a
crude skill. It is disfigured with certain familiar limitations; the
author can recognise no work except that done with the hands;
and, whether by unhappy accident of actual circumstance or through
defect of temperament, he sees his employers with a disproportionate
bitterness that somewhat discounts his indictment, while he views
his fellow-workmen from rather a disdainful height.

But _The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists_ is a book to be read by
any who want an insight into the conditions of working-class life
at its average, with its virtues, its vices, its courage, its
intolerable piteous anxieties

.

* * * * *
Mr. Grant-Watson is one of the most resolute and intrepid novelists
I have met, and his directness of speech may give offence, I fear, to
the more reticent of his readers.

His story of two white men and _Alice Desmond_, freed from the
social conventions and let loose among the natives on a remote
island in the Pacific, proceeds apace and with little regard for
the susceptibilities of civilisation and refinement.

Familiar but rarely printed language is used when occasion demands;
primitive passions stalk naked and unashamed; and when murder is to
be done it is done brutally, forthwith and notwithstanding the respective
merits, from an heroic point of view, of active and passive agents.

Being myself so situated in life that I am never likely to take part
in any affair more passionate and drastic than a football match or a
law-suit, I found the savage reality, the candour and the unbridled
wrath of _Where Bonds are Loosed_ (Duckworth) most welcome by
contrast.

It gave me pleasure to see a man's annoyance being worked off by
the use of fists, knives and bullets, a woman's impatience spending
itself in immediate violence, and love and hatred being expressed
in sharp and decisive action rather than in deliberate subtleties
of conversation.

In short, Mr. Watson left me wondering, somewhat fondly, to what
lengths I myself might go in my more heated moments if I too were
isolated on Kanna Island and beyond the supervision of police-constables
and next-door neighbours.

* * * * *
Once upon a time it was my lot to read a slender volume of Prose
Poems, all about stars and rivers and moons and such other things
of which prose poetry is made, and written by the most intense and
soulful young woman who ever put pen to paper. Which, being perused,
I handed to another and elder woman, noted for a great reader of
books. And after many days, and after (I suppose) much fruitless
toil on the part of my friend, the volume was returned to me with
this single comment, "It seems very racily written." I tell you the
story, which being true is without point, because I have been
wondering what the same critic would have found to say about another
slender booklet called _The Word of Teregor_ (Nisbet). My idea of
it is that Mr. Guy Ridley, the author, knows and admires his Kipling
and delights in his Maeterlinck to such extent that (possibly after
a visit to _The Blue Bird_) he felt himself inspired to sit down
and write these Forest-Jungle-Book tales of an earlier world, wherein
Man and Beast and all created things were subject to the benevolent
rule of _Teregor_, the Oak-tree; when everything living had a voice
and used it, pleasantly enough, in rather mannered prose of the
"Yea, Nay and Behold" type; and when all the old legends had yet
to be started in ways of which Mr. Ridley gives his own most original
explanations. So if you care about this kind of thing (and I had
quite a pleasant half-hour from it myself) get it. You will at least
find here a book entirely different from anything else in the
library-box; printed in type that is a pleasure to the eye, and
having, moreover, the classic excuse of being a very little one.
* * * * *Irritation succeeded and she resolved to
punish him for his insolence, even at the risk of indiscretion.

"You see many things, do you not?" she said, mockingly.

"Yes," he agreed, following her lead, "I see very, very many things.
It is a faculty.  It has been most useful."

"I should not flatter myself that I alone possessed that faculty,
Prince Koltsoff, if I were you."  She leaned forward, her chin upon her
hand and gazed thoughtfully seaward.  "I also am not sightless."

She leaned back in her chair languidly and watched the Prince's change
of expression with open amusement.

"So, you have found it worth while to observe me?  I am quite
flattered."  His impression that she had discharged a random shot grew
with his words and soon became conviction.  "I thank you."

Anne laughed.

"You are quite welcome to all you received--in the way of my interest
in you.  It is only fair, however, to suggest that we do not always
obtain information concerning our friends--'you, for instance,'" she
mimicked him perfectly, "through general observation.  Some things may
obtrude themselves, don't you know, in the most--what was your word?
Oh, yes, 'scientific'--the most unscientific manner."

The Prince looked at her intently.

"You are speaking in innuendo, Miss Wellington," he replied.  His tone
was low and rapid.

"I am speaking quite truthfully, Prince Koltsoff," she said, with an
inflection of emphasis.

"How could I doubt that!" He bowed.  "That is why I am certain that you
will be more explicit."

"There, you really don't insist, do you?"  He saw a malicious light in
her eyes.

"My dear Miss Wellington, most assuredly I do insist.  I--I beg your
pardon--I do more: I demand.  Certainly it is my right."

Anne was all mischief now.

"Very well, then, I am able to inform you that you were in Newport
incog, several days before you came to us.  Do you conceive my right to
call this to your attention, in view of the fact that you told us you
had just arrived from Washington?"

Prince Koltsoff, as though absorbing her meaning, sat motionless,
gazing at her steadily.  Then he leaned forward and placed his hand on
hers for a moment.

"Miss Wellington, you have done well.  I pride myself on some
diplomatic experience.  You have negotiated your _coup_ in a manner
worthy of a De Staël.  You would adorn the service.  I wonder if you
realize the possibilities of your future in an international sphere.
To you I have no fear of talking.  Listen, then."

Unconsciously the girl bent toward him.

"I am a diplomat," he continued.  "There are things which--" he lifted
his brows.  "Newport--the French ambassador is here; the German
ambassador is at Narragansett Pier, and I--who knows where I am--and
why?  But some day--"

He drew a long breath.  "Rest content now, Miss Wellington, that I am
progressing toward the gratitude of my Government; you shall hear more.
Of course," he waved his hand, "I have spoken for your ear."

"Of course," said Miss Wellington, calmly, but inwardly curious
nevertheless.  "Should you care to walk to the stables?"

He nodded and then walking beside her he continued impulsively:

"I am not a soldier, Miss Wellington.  But all victories are not won on
the battlefields.  The art--one of the arts--of diplomacy is to bring
on war, if war must be, when you are ready and your adversaries are
not.  There are other functions.  Let it be so.  I but observe that one
may wield things other than the sword and better than the sword, to
serve one's country."

"I quite believe you."  There was enthusiasm in her voice.  "You may
never expect the glory of the soldier, and yet how glorious the work
must be!  The matching of wits instead of guns, and then--you have the
opportunity of winning the victories of peace--"

"Of which the world seldom hears," interpolated the Prince.

"But that makes it finer," she said.  "Have we any real diplomats,
who--oh, I don't know--make themselves felt in the inner circle of
things: men that we--that the country--does not know of, who are doing
the--the things you are?"

The Prince smiled.

"I don't know really.  You have the 'new diplomacy' which is shouting
what other people whisper--or keep to themselves--and _le gros
gourdin_--the laughable big stick; it amuses us more than it impresses,
I assure you."  He regarded the girl closely and she smiled
questioningly.

"You do not flush!  You are not irritated?" he asked.

"Why should I be?  What do you mean?"

"I was speaking lightly of your country."

"Oh, were you?  I did not notice.  I fear I am used to that, having
spent much time in Europe."

The Prince looked at her curiously.  She colored.

"No," she said, "I do not go in strongly for the _furore Americanus_,
if that is what you mean."

"So.  Your country must look to its _bourgeoise_ for its Joans of Arc.
But then your men are ungallantly self-sufficient.  In Russia," the
Prince shrugged his shoulders, "we send women to Siberia--or decorate
them with the Order of St. Katherine."

"You actually shame me, Prince Koltsoff.  We are different here; even
our suffragettes would by no means allow devotion to their cause to
carry them to jail; and as for influencing statesmen, or setting their
plans at naught--" she shook her head--"why, I do not even know who
they are.  They are not in our set," laughing.  "Really, we are pretty
much butterflies from your--from any--viewpoint, are n't we?  But after
all, why?"

"Ah, why?" He turned to her suddenly.  "Do you love your country, Miss
Wellington?"

"What an absurd question!  Of course I do."

"Easily answered," replied the Prince, "but think a moment.  I said
_love_.  That love which inspired your women to send their sons and
husbands to die for their country in your Civil War; the love that
exalted Charlotte Corday.  Have you breathed the quicker when you saw
your flag in foreign lands?"  He looked at her strangely.  "Would you
loathe the man you loved if you learnt he had injured your country?
Think, Miss Wellington."

"Your fervor renders it quite impossible for me to think; if it will
satisfy you I will say I don't believe I begin to know what patriotism
is.  Yet I would not have you think I am altogether shallow.  Sir
Clarence Pembroke has praised my grasp of British affairs.  We were
carrying there about one thousand Confederate and political
prisoners.

A large percentage of them were commissioned officers.

Early in '63 our Regiment was ordered to the front by way of Harper's
Ferry.

When we arrived at the Ferry I was the first officer detailed for a
two-days' turn of picket duty on Bolivar Heights.

[Illustration: LIEUTENANT JOSEPH H. (JOE) BARKER.]
Harper's Ferry is situated at the confluence of the Potomac and
Shenandoah rivers.

The Potomac cuts through the Blue Ridge Mountains there. The Chesapeake
and Ohio Canal runs along the north bank of the Potomac, rugged
mountains enclose it, presenting an alpine appearance.
Here the "John Brown raid" began. It was formerly the location
of one of the great national arsenals.

When encamped there in '63 the Regiment was in tents on Camp Hill;
the officers were quartered in a building which had been the home
of the officers of the arsenal.

Our Regiment, nominally a heavy artillery regiment, was thoroughly
schooled in the heavy tactics and also as light or field artillery
and infantry; able or qualified to be used in either arm of the
service with equal facility.

The order to proceed to the front was hailed with delight, duty in
the field being a panacea for garrison bickerings.

Later the regiment was moved to Halltown, encamped on the Miller
farm, and threw out pickets.

I was on first detail there. I learned how to get a fair sleep on top
of a "herring-bone" rail fence. My proclivity for "prying into
things" manifested itself there. An attack was expected, so our
regiment slept on arms, anxiously waiting; it became tedious. I
asked permission to reconnoitre alone, and was permitted.

In the dark I sneaked out about a mile, and listened; three or four
cavalrymen came whirling down the road as if riding for life; they
roused the regiment.
They were blood stained, but upon examination the blood was found to
have come from one of their own horses. Such scares and mistakes were
frequent, especially with fresh troops. I was in a dilemma to get
back into line without being shot, but it was accomplished. The
regiment was ordered back to Baltimore for garrison duty.

I was detailed to convey prisoners away many times. Once I took ninety
odd Confederate officers to Johnson's Island, Sandusky, Ohio. Among
them was Lieutenant General Pemberton, who had commanded at
Vicksburg, and who had, on July 4th, surrendered Vicksburg with
thirty-seven thousand men, fifteen general officers and sixty
thousand stand of arms.

I was surprised at the great number of "Copperheads" we met in crossing
Ohio.
My exhibition of Confederate prisoners was treated as a first-class
circus; it "drew" the "Copperheads" and they flocked to the
stations along the route to express sympathy and admiration. What
was a "Copperhead"? I will try to tell you: he stood,
relatively, as the Tories to the Revolution. They were composed of
several elements; some wore so greedy of gain they wanted no war
that might interfere with their finances; some were too cowardly;
some were too partisan politically, really thinking their fealty was
due to those who were fighting against an administration nominally
representing an opposing political party; all of them forming a
mass to be influenced by conspirators who were pursuing an intelligent
purpose to destroy the Union; just such material as was needed by
Vallandigham, Seymour, Andrews, Morgan and Lee to help their projects
of further disruption.

What became of them? They sank out of sight when the Confederate cause
was lost. Naturally they were scorned by the men who had fought for the
Union. As time goes on, they and their work is being forgotten. Future
historians may be more kind to them than we who suffered because
of them, but it is not likely that the descendants of any Copperhead
will claim public honors for their anti-Union forbears.

I am reminded of an incident that was told widely through the armies:

When Lee's army reached York, Pa., on the way to Gettysburg, these
Copperheads went out to meet the Confederates, and assure them "how
they had always loved them." The Confederates wanted tangible proof
of this love; they demanded that one hundred thousand dollars in gold
be paid at once; else the town of York would be burned. Now, wasn't
that unkind!
but lovers must ever be ready to prove, you know.

On our way home we had a railroad smash at Mifflin, Pa. I was curled
up, asleep in my seat, but received only a scratch on my forehead.

I crawled out of a window and helped recover bodies from the wreckage.

Fort McHenry is an historic spot. The scene described in our "Star
Spangled Banner" was dedicated to it. It was its ramparts Key referred
to in his first verse. In 1812 the fort was garrisoned by one
thousand men under Major Armisted, to guard Baltimore from an attack
by sea.
September 13th, 1814, the British admiral, with sixteen heavy war vessels,
opened bombardment upon the fort. Its guns failed to reach the fleet
till some of the vessels approached nearer. He met so warm a reception
that they withdrew, badly damaged. A force of one thousand men landed
to surprise the fort in the rear, but they were repulsed. At midnight
the firing ceased.

Next day the fleet withdrew and Baltimore was safe.

During the bombardment Francis Scott Key, a prisoner on board the
British fleet, wrote the "Star Spangled Banner."

I shall never forget July 4th, 1863. The crucial battle of the war,
Gettysburg, was being fought. Meade had just succeeded Hooker in command
of the army. Anxiously the wisdom of the change was being watched by
every soldier. It was my fortune to be detailed as officer of the guard
at Fort McHenry that day. Guardmount is always an inspiring exercise,
for then troops are carefully inspected and instructed before entry
on their tour of duty.

Fort McHenry is an ideally beautiful spot, situated on the point of
a peninsula formed by the confluence of the north and south forks
of the Patapsco river.

The spot is loved by every American.
A picture, a combination of events, produced the most strikingly
emotional effect upon me. We were formed on the exact ground overlooked
by Key when he wrote:

"Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we
hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and
bright stars, thro' the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched,
were so gallantly streaming?

And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof thro'
the night that our flag was still there.
Oh, say, does that star spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of
the free and the home of the brave?"

I was trying to examine arms. Our Post Band, the 2d Artillery Band,
one of the grandest in the service, was playing that soul lifting
piece. The north fork of the Patapsco was filled with transports,
carrying bronzed veterans (I think the 19th Corps), who were hurrying
to Gettysburg, and these boys were yelling for twice their number;
cheers upon cheers. On the balcony of one of our prison buildings was
a prisoner of war, a lineal descendant of Francis Scott Key, overlooking
the scene.

And I thought of our flag over yonder to the northwest, forty miles
away at Gettysburg.

Yesterday and day before we had listened, straining our ears to hear the
guns. Was our flag still there? Had our boys with Meade stood fast against
the lion of the Confederacy, or had the Stars and Bars been flaunted
victorious upon the battle ground? God knows how our hearts were
strained in those hours. And when I heard the cheers of our soldiers
upon the transports and thought of Francis Scott Key and how he
had watched to see if Old Glory still waved, my eyes were blinded
with tears.

I had to suspend my inspection to dry them. I was not alone affected;
there were many.

Such tears one need not be ashamed of; they are not evidence of
weakness. An army of men inspired by such emotions would be best to
avoid.

I shall never forget the relief which came to our anxiety the next
morning (July 5th), Gettysburg was ours. Lee was started back to Virginia.
Vicksburg, too, was ours. Indeed, crucial was the day, July 4th, 1863.
Every one of our ninety millions of united Americans should ever
give thanks for the events of that day.

FILE IV.

A taste of the Draft Riots, July 13, 1863, when conveying wounded
Confederates from Gettysburg to David's Island, New York Harbor--Governor
Seymour's questionable conduct--A mysterious Mr.

Andrews of Virginia-- "Knights of the Golden Circle"--"Sons of
Liberty" and a North Western Confederacy--Uncle Burdette--The Laurel
incident.

I had a little taste of the draft riots during that memorable week
beginning July 13th, 1863.

I was ordered to David's Island, New York Harbor, with seven hundred
wounded Confederates from Gettysburg. The demonstrations of the mob
of onlookers in Philadelphia were so very unfriendly that we had to use
the butts of our muskets to control the crowd. They threatened us
saying, "to-morrow will be our day." I understood the threat when I
learned later of the rioting. We were advised that our train was to
be intercepted before reaching New York, and transportation was,
therefore, furnished on the steamer "Commodore," by the outside course.
After leaving our prisoners at David's Island, we landed at the
Battery, and there I addressed my men, cautioning them not to reply
to any assault unless ordered by me.

We marched up Broadway to the City Hall Barracks (where the New York
Post Office now stands) and stacked arms inside the enclosure. I was
proud of my men. Each one appeared a giant, steady, firm of step, lips
compressed; two-thirds of them were foreign born, yet no better Americans
ever paraded Broadway.

Immediately after stacking arms, a lot of rioters who had just overcome
their guards, seized our stacks.

Our boys jumped on them and I had a big job to keep them from crushing
their ribs. Exceeding my orders, I permitted my men to visit their
homes, to report back at midnight. The cars were running but had
no passengers.

I rode on the Eighth Avenue car to 48th Street, my home.

Our house was locked, but Cousin Wilbur F.
Strong was there alone. He said Brother A.

P. had taken the family into the country for safety. A. P.'s loyalty
had made him a "marked man," and he had been threatened.

After eating, Wilbur and I walked down to John Hardy's, in 35th
Street.

Stores were all closed, no one on the streets but an occasional
corner loafer, who snarled at us.

Hardy had been hiding his colored servant in the coal cellar,
to save her life.

Wilbur afterwards entered the service, and went on the "Hunter raid"
up the Shenandoah Valley in 1864.

He died from the exhaustion of the marches.

At midnight every man was behind his stacked arms, ready for duty. The
city was deserted, as if plague stricken. I shall never forget the
desolation.

Ostensibly the draft was the excuse, but with the moving spirits it
was but a subterfuge.

The ring-leader of the mobs in New York was a mysterious stranger, a
"Mr. Andrews" of Virginia. On July 13th, 1863, at 40th Street and Fourth
Avenue, while the firemen were at work in Third Avenue, he ascended a
shanty which stood opposite the burning ruins.
Thousands were assembled behind this shanty in an open space of untilled
ground, and the Virginian orator proceeded to address them. He cried
out that he wished he had the lungs of a stentor and that there was a
reporter present to take down his words; he said he had lately addressed
them in Cooper Institute, where he told them Mr. Lincoln wanted to tear
the hardworking man from his wife and family and send him to the
war; he denounced Mr.

Lincoln for his conscription bill which was in favor of the rich and
against the poor man; he called him a Nero and a Caligula for such a
measure, etc.

He then advised the people to organize to resist the draft and appoint
their leader, and if necessary he would be their leader (uproarious
cheers). Immediately after, the mob destroyed a beautiful dwelling at
Lexington Avenue and 47th Street. And they did organize. Mounted
leaders were seen to give orders to subordinate leaders of mobs; one
of these mounted men rode on horseback into the hardware store of
Hiram Jelliffe in Ninth Avenue and seized what arms and powder he
had.

Mr.

Jelliffe afterwards identified him as a clerk in one of the City
departments.

Governor Horatio Seymour, in answer to a call from Washington, had
hurried off the militia to Pennsylvania.

He made a memorable speech standing upon the City Hall steps, in which
he addressed the rioters as "my friends." A report of it says: "Standing
near him on the steps was a ring-leader of a mob, who had just made
an inflammatory speech and who had recently come from an assault on the
'Tribune.'" The "Tribune" (editorially) said practically that: "the
sending of the militia out of New York was with a knowledge that it
would be desirable to have them away when his (the Governor's) 'friends'
wanted to riot."

I am aware that Governor Seymour has been a sort of idol with many, and
that if I lay my poor weak tongue on his fair name, I will incur
their displeasure; but I have always disliked shams.

Not wishing to be tedious, I want to recall that when the war broke
out the Confederacy was thoroughly equipped to take its place as a
fully organized nation at once.

This fact was commented on and efforts were made to explain how it was
accomplished. No comprehensive history of the struggle can be
written that does not include the secret societies that abetted. They
played as important a part as did the army which opposed us, and
was vastly more dangerous by reason of the insidious character of
its movements.

One State after another swung into line under some mysterious
talisman, although there was a strong sentiment against leaving the
Union.

In delving into affairs generally, I became possessed of information
that, so far as I know, has never been in print.

I learned that a secret organization known as the "Knights of the
Golden Circle" was the nucleus of the Confederacy.

That under its secret fostering the Confederacy was fully developed,
ready to take its place among the nations.

That the Knights were an outgrowth of the defunct "Know Nothing"
society that had become disrupted on the subject of the extension
of slavery (which also divided churches).

That as soon as the Confederacy was in the saddle, no longer were there
any initiations into the "Knights of the Golden Circle," but a subordinate
society was organized to do further work, i. e., to further disrupt
the Union. This society was known as the "Sons of Liberty."
The purpose of the "Sons of Liberty" was to form a northwestern
confederacy.

My source of information said that it was understood in that circle,
that Governor Horatio Seymour was to give the signal for disruption,
which was to be a refusal from New York to furnish its quota of
soldiers. Seymour failed them. He did not refuse, but he protested and
procrastinated. He obstructed the draft as adroitly as he could,
claiming inequities. And on August 7th, 1863, Mr. Lincoln in a
communication to Seymour regarding these claims, said: "We are
contending with an enemy who, as I understand, drives every able-bodied
man he can reach into his ranks, very much as a butcher drives
bullocks into a slaughter pen; no time is wasted, no argument is
used."

And Mr.
Lincoln repeatedly wrote Governor Seymour of the cost in blood and
treasure by the delays he was causing.

The bloodiest and most brutal riots this country ever saw ensued in New
York, Boston, Portsmouth and other cities.

The draft riots were, in fact, but the first step of the "Sons of
Liberty" in uprising, towards forming another rupture.

To this secret movement of the "Sons of Liberty" I refer to the following
documents:

Head Quarters, District of Indiana, Indianapolis, Sept. 3, 1864.
1st.

Large numbers of men of suspected loyalty to the United States,
have heretofore, and still are immigrating to the State of Indiana,
and in some localities their open and avowed hatred to the Government,
and treasonable designs are fully expressed....

By order of Bvt. Major General Alvin P. Hovey, And. C.

Cemper, A.A.G.

An order had previously been issued by General Heintzelman, Commander of
the Department, prohibiting the transport of arms into the Department
by Railroads.

Governor Oliver P.

Morton, in his message to the Legislature in June, 1865, said:

"Some misguided persons who mistook the bitterness of party patriotism
and ceased to feel the obligations of allegiance to our Country
and Government, conspired against the State and National Government
and sought by Military force to plunge us into the horrors of
revolution.

A secret organization had been formed which by its lectures and rituals
inculcated doctrines subversive of the Government, and which carried
to their consequences would evidently result in disruption and
destruction of the nation.

The members of this organization were united by solemn oaths, which
if observed, bound them to execute the orders of their Grand
Commanders without delay or question, however treasonable or criminal
might be their character.

I am glad to believe that the great majority of its members regarded
it merely as a political machine and did not suspect the ulterior
treasonable action contemplated by its leaders, and upon discovery
of its true character, hastened to abjure all connection with it.

Some of the chief conspirators have been arrested and tried by the
government, and others have fled, their schemes have been exposed
and baffled."

The arrest of Clement L. Vallandigham, of Ohio, for treason, uncovered
part of the conspiracy; he was, in fact, the Grand Commander of the
Order. Of him Mr. Lincoln said:

"I solemnly declare my belief that this hindrance of the military,
including maiming and murder, is due to the course in which Mr.

Vallandigham has been engaged, in a greater degree than to any other
cause, and it is due to him personally, in a greater degree than
to any other man."

The Indianapolis "Journal," July 2d, 1864, said:
"Members of the Sons of Liberty were advised that Morgan (the Rebel
raider) would be in Kentucky, and Vallandigham in Hamilton, on or
about June 14th (1864).

It was through information furnished by members of this order that
Governor Bramlette of Kentucky was apprised of Morgan's intended
raid and attack upon Frankfort.

The rumor that there was collusion between the friends of Vallandigham
and Morgan seems possible.

In the letter of Governor Bramlette, which we append, significant
allusion is made to it.

It would seem strange indeed, that the Sons of Liberty should be
so advised of the simultaneous raids of the Canadian and Kentucky
Confederates unless a common understanding was had between the two
traitors, and concerted action determined upon.

That they were so advised is evident from the fact that certain of
their number admonished Governor Morton of Indiana beforehand, who in
turn advised Governor Bramlette of the approaching danger in time
for him to provide for it.

Commonwealth of Kentucky, Executive Department, Frankfort, June 22,
1864.

Governor Oliver P.

Morton, Indianapolis, Ind.

Dear Sir.

--I return you my most grateful thanks for your prompt assistance during
Morgan's recent raid.

The timely arrival of the 43d Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, gave us
entire relief against apprehension of danger.

Although the citizens had repulsed the Rebels, yet the large numbers
still infesting this section at the time of their arrival kept us
upon constant vigil and serious apprehension of another assault.

The patriotism and kindly feeling which prompted the gallant veterans
of the Forty-third to rush to our relief without delaying after their
long and arduous labors to even greet their families, deserves the
highest commendation from their countrymen, and will ever command
from us of Kentucky, the profoundest gratitude.

The appearance of Vallandigham, of Ohio, simultaneously with Morgan's
raid in Kentucky, fully confirms the matter made known to me through
General Lindsey, by you.

The defeat of Morgan has frustrated their movements for the present,
but vigilance in the future must still guard us against the
machinations of evil doers.

Yours truly, THOMAS E. BRAMLETTE."

Come over to the _D'Estang_ a minute, Joe; I want to show you
something. . . .  Well, Mr. Jackson, cleaned out?  I thought so.  Thank
you, I am going to be away for a few days.  Don't let anything be
touched, please.  Let the work stop until I return.  Come on, Joe."

In his cabin on the _D'Estang_, Armitage pointed to several more or
less disreputable garments lying on his berth.

"Say," he said, "would a candidate for physical instructor for the
Wellington boys wear such clothes?"

Thornton looked hard at his friend for a minute and then his face
broadened into a huge smile of understanding.  "Not if he wanted the
job," he said.  "You 'll make more of a hit as you are."

"All right, and now, Joe, go into the yeoman's office like a good chap,
pick out a time-stained sheet of paper and typewrite a letter, signing
your name as captain of the 19-- football eleven at Annapolis, saying
that the bearer, Jack--Jack--who?"

"McCall," suggested Thornton.

"Yes, McCall--saying that Jack McCall had given great satisfaction as
trainer for the eleven and was honest and God-fearing; you know how to
do it."

"All right," said Thornton, starting for the door.  He paused in the
corridor.  "Say, Jack, do you know you're taking all this mighty
light?"  He frowned.  "This is serious."

Armitage frowned too.

"I know, but I 'll be serious enough before it's over, I reckon."

"You will," said Thornton dryly.  "How do you expect to get the job
anyway?"

Armitage shrugged his shoulders.

"Leave that to me," he said.  "Oh, Joe, are you going to be on the
island for supper?"

"No--not for supper," he said.  "I 'll be over from Newport about
eleven o'clock though."

"All right, drop aboard then, will you?  I want to see you."

"Right-o," said Thornton.

For some time after his departure Armitage sat writing a document,
covering the case to date, outlining his plans, his suspicions and the
like.  It turned out to be lengthy.  He sealed it in an envelope,
labelled it, "Armitage vs. Koltsoff," and locked it in a small safe in
the yeoman's room.

One of the engineer's force came in to say that they had made progress
in repairing the boiler baffle plates, designed to keep the funnels
from torching when under high speed, but that they were at the point
where advice was needed.

Armitage arose, put on a suit of greasy overalls, and went into the
grimy vitals of the destroyer, a wrench in one hand, a chisel in the
other.  In about ten minutes he had solved the problem, explained it to
the mechanics gathered about him, and then demonstrated just how simple
the remedial measures were.  All torpedo boat officers do this more
often than not.  It explains the blind fidelity with which the crews of
craft of this sort accompany their officers without a murmur under the
bows of swiftly moving battleships or through crowded ocean lanes at
night without lights, with life boats aboard having aggregate capacity
for about half the crew.

Armitage was alone at supper, his junior taking tea aboard a German
cruiser in the harbor.  With the coffee he lighted a cigar and half
closed his eyes.  He marvelled at the strange thrill which had
possessed him since Thornton had gone.  The loss of that control was
something which justified the gravest fears and deepest gloom.  And
yet--and yet--whenever he thought about it he saw, not Yeasky, nor
Koltsoff, nor the torpedo--just a tall, flexible girl, with wonderful
hair and eyes and lips.  He puffed impatiently at his cigar.  Hang it
all, he had gone to church that morning because he felt he had to see
her, and the morrow had been a blank because he knew he should not be
able to see her again.  But now, well, it looked as though he should
see her; swift blood tingled in his cheeks.

Precisely at eleven Thornton looked in.  Armitage gave him the
combination of the safe, told him about the letter, and explained how
he expected to obtain employment.  They parted at midnight.

"Good-night, Jack," said Thornton, placing his hand affectionately on
his brother officer's shoulder.  "Now don't forget to dodge the
interference and tackle low.  And if you want me, 'phone.  Consider me
a minute man until you return."

"Thanks," replied Armitage.  "Oh, Joe, will you mail this letter to the
Department?"  His voice lowered as he added half humorously, "It seems
almost a shame to set the dogs on a man who may prove to be a
benefactor."

"What?" asked Thornton.

"Nothing; good-night, Joe."


CHAPTER X

JACK MCCALL, AT YOUR SERVICE

Armitage landed in Newport by the eight o'clock boat and calling a hack
drove out to the house of the chief of police.  The chief was at
breakfast and came to the door with his napkin in his hand.  He greeted
his visitor with a broad smile of welcome.

"Hello, Lieutenant," he said.  "What's doing?  Another of your boys you
want turned loose?"

"Good-morning, Chief.  No, not exactly.  May I talk to you a minute?"

"Sure."  The chief glanced about the dining room and closed the door
with his foot.  "Talk as much as you like."

Armitage glanced at the chief with an admiring smile.  He had never
ceased to wonder at the multifarious qualities which enabled the man to
remain indispensable to native and cottager alike.  Courteous,
handsome, urbane, diplomatic, debonair, when a matron of the very
highest caste sent for him to enlist his efforts in the regaining of
some jewel, tiara, or piece of _vertu_, missing after a weekend, he
never for a moment forgot that it was all a bit of carelessness, which
the gentlest sort of reminder would correct.  This is to say that he
usually brought about the return of the missing article and neither of
the parties between which he served as intermediary ever felt the
slightest embarrassment or annoyance.  No wedding was ever given
without consulting him as to the proper means to be employed in
guarding the presents.  He was at once a social register, containing
the most minute and extensive data, and an _index criminis_, unabridged.

As Armitage talked, the chief's eyes lighted and he nodded his head
approvingly from time to time.

"I see," he said.  "It's rather clever of you.  I 'll hold myself for
any word.  I can do more: I know Mrs. Wellington quite well.  You can
ask her to call me for reference if you wish.  I 'll make you out a
fine thug."

"That 'll be fine, although I may not need you.  In the meantime have
your men keep an eye out for Yeasky.  Among other steps that Major
Elting took, previous to giving the matter into my hands, was to
telegraph the Provost Marshal at Philadelphia to visit certain
places and arrest, if found, William Deegan.

I arrived in Philadelphia on Thursday morning and immediately called on
the Provost Marshal to ascertain what steps he had taken, and I
requested him to withdraw his men from the job.

I ascertained to a certainty that Deegan had gone to New York, and also
that the officers from the Provost Marshal's office went there (to
the haunt of Deegan), dressed in uniform, stating they were connected
with the Quartermasters' Office, and wanted to see Deegan.

This was sufficient to scare any guilty man out of the country;
accordingly I left for New York, where I visited Deegan's haunts.

On Friday evening there, I ascertained that Deegan and his pigeons were
gone, either to New Jersey or Boston.

On Saturday I visited Major Leslie, Chief Paymaster at New York, and
posted him as to the actions of Deegan and his associates, and
recommended that if discharges purporting to come from the 6th
United States Cavalry were presented it would be well to detain the
parties presenting such discharges and final statements until he
could ascertain if they were genuine; and would then probably be
able to catch some of the pigeons, and perhaps Deegan.

I also requested him to telegraph to Chief Paymaster at Boston,
which he promised to do.

Deegan's forgeries seem to be confined to the 6th U.

S.

Cavalry; he was formerly a member of that Regiment. He operates with
"jumpers."
I think this job was spoiled by the actions of the Officers in
Philadelphia. I am quite positive we were not suspected, as we were at
all times current with these "jumpers," that infested Deegan's
haunts.

I visited these places until yesterday, when I became satisfied that
Deegan is too badly scared to remain about.

In addition to my report I wish to give you a brief outline of the state
of affairs in the Provost Department in New York and Philadelphia.
Wherever I went in search of my man I met "Bounty Jumpers," who
openly avowed themselves such, and seemed to defy the authorities.

Dick Callery, who keeps a groggery at No. 126 Callowhill street,
Philadelphia, stated he was aware of Deegan's transactions.

Most of Callery's customers were "jumpers."

In New York we could go but a short distance without meeting these
characters.

From what I could see I should think one thousand a low estimate of
their numbers; they are very bold.

They pay this Department quite a compliment, i. e., they say if
they can only get clear from Baltimore they are all right.

If about fifteen or twenty pigeons could be thrown into New York
and Philadelphia to co-operate with a strong force of Detectives
and Military, hundreds of these "jumpers" would be brought to
justice.

These jumpers without an exception are the firm support and backbone
of the Copperhead Clique, and the same parties that caused the riots
in New York last year.

The arrest and punishment of these parties would cause rejoicing among
respectable people.

From my observation I can see that this class of men before the war were
pickpockets, burglars, &c., but now resort to this last and easier
means of stealing, i. e., "bounty jumping," at the same time they
please the "Copperheads" by filling successively, the quotas of
different districts, and not furnishing the Army one soldier; thus
defeating the object of the Draft.

I am, Colonel,

Very respy. your obdt. servt., H.

B. SMITH, Lt. & Chief.

My report and recommendations were so highly esteemed by General
Wallace that he had a copy sent to General N.

L.

Jeffries, the Provost Marshal General of the United States, and by
him were my suggestions acted upon.

Colonel Lafayette C. Baker was sent to New York with a force of men
and very ample money; a very vigorous and extended raid was made,
partially successful, but I think my plan of putting fifteen or
twenty men in with the jumpers, to actually "jump" with them, thus
obtaining evidence to convict, would have been more successful.

The current newspapers treated this matter as of great importance,
using the findings of my report, saying: "Our quotas are being
fraudulently filled, and furnishing no men for the army, etc."

FILE XXIV.

General Wallace's letter to secretary of war, Charles A. Dana (afterwards
editor of the New York "Sun") asking for an extension of territory for
my work, incidentally introducing Colonel John S. Mosby, giving a list
of his men and their home addresses--A train robbery, paymasters robbed--I
recapture part of the money--Commissions in promotion declined.

"McCall, if you will go out to the garage,
Mr. Dawson will show you your room and give you some clothes.  I may
want you any time, so please don't go far from the garage."

As Armitage passed out, guided by Miss Hatch, Mrs. Wellington turned to
her daughter.

"Well, Anne," she said, "he lied and lied and lied.  But I do believe
some of the things he said and some he did n't.  I believe him to be
honest and I believe he will be good for the boys.  He himself is a
magnificent specimen, certainly.  But I don't reconcile one thing."

"What is that, mother?"

"He is a gentleman and has been bred as one; that is perfectly evident."

"Oh, no doubt," replied her daughter with apparent indifference.  "One
of the younger son variety you meet in and out of England, I fancy."

"I suppose so," said Mrs. Wellington.  "Is that why you invited him to
sit with us in church?  Why you spoke to him on the _General_?  Why you
wanted me to employ him?"

"I don't know," replied Anne frankly.  "He interested me.  He does yet.
He is a mystery and I want to solve him."

"May an old woman give you a bit of advice, Anne?  Thank you," as her
daughter bowed.  "Remember he is an employee of this house.  He sought
the position; he must be down to it.  Keep that in your mind--and don't
let him drive fast.  In the meantime, how about his license?"

Anne stamped her foot.

"Oh, dear!" she exclaimed.  "I forgot all about that beastly license.
What can we do?"  She faced her mother.  "Mother, can't you think of
something?  I know you can arrange it if you will."

"Well," said her mother thoughtfully.  Suddenly she looked at her
secretary who entered at the moment.  "Miss Hatch, you might get Chief
Roberts on the 'phone--right away, please.  Now, Anne, I am getting
nervous; you had better go."

"Yes, mother."  Anne dropped a playful curtsey and left the room,
smiling.

Half an hour later, Armitage, squeezed into a beautifully made suit of
tan whipcord, his calves swathed in putees, and a little cap with vizor
pressing flat against his brows, was loitering about the garage with
Ryan, a footman, and absorbing the gossip of the family.  Prince
Koltsoff was still there and intended, evidently, to remain for some
time.  This information, gained from what Anne Wellington had said to
her mother, had relieved his mind of fears that his quarry had already
gone, and he would have been quite at his ease had not the thought that
the fact of Koltsoff's presence here rather argued against his having
the control in his possession, occurred to him.  Still, if the Russian
had any of the instincts of a gentleman he could hardly break away from
the Wellingtons at such short notice, and certainly not if he was, as
Thornton surmised, interested in the daughter.  Talk about the garage
left him in no doubt of this.

If the Prince had the missing part he would do one of three things:
hold onto it until he left; mail it; or express it to St. Petersburg.
Benoir, he had learned, carried the Wellington mail as well as express
matter to the city, mornings and afternoons.  In his absence, Armitage
was, he felt, the logical man for this duty.  So he did not worry about
these contingencies.  He had knowledge that up to eight o'clock that
morning no package for foreign countries had been either mailed or
expressed; this eliminated the fear, which might otherwise have been
warrantable, that the package had already been sent on its way to
Europe.  Besides, no man of Koltsoff's experience would be likely to
trust the delivery of so important an object to any but his own hands.
Thus the probabilities were that the thing was at this minute in the
Prince's room.  If all these suppositions were wrong, then Yeasky had
it.  Armitage knew enough of the workings of the Secret Service Bureau
to know that if the man got out of the country he would be an elusive
person indeed, especially as he had a long, livid scar across his left
cheek which could not be concealed with any natural effect.

But, somehow, the conviction persisted in Armitage's mind that the
Prince had the control.  In the short time he had spent at The Crags
this impression had not diminished; it had increased, without definite
reason, to be sure; and yet, the fact remained.  He would find out one
way or another shortly.  His room, not in the servants' wing, was on
the third floor, right over the apartments of the Wellington boys,
which in turn were not far from Koltsoff's suite.  It would not be long
before a burglary would be committed in the Wellington house.  At this
thought, Armitage thrilled with delightful emotions.

In the meantime he addressed himself to the task of gleaning further
information concerning the family into whose employ he had entered.  He
learned that while Mr. Wellington and his daughter were devoted to
motoring, Mrs. Wellington would have none of it, and that the boys were
inclined to horses also.  Ronald Wellington left things pretty much to
his wife and she was a "Hellian," as Ryan put it, to those about her
who were not efficient and faithful.  But otherwise, she was a pretty
decent sort and willing to pay well.

"What sort are the boys?" asked Armitage, recalling that his duties
with them might begin at any time.

"Master Ronald, the oldest, is stuck on himself," replied Ryan.  "He
ain't easy to get along with.  Master Royal, the youngster, is as fine
a little chap as ever lived.  Ronald is learning himself the cigarette
habit; which is all right--the quicker he smokes himself to death the
better, if he was n't after learnin' young Muck, as every one calls
him, to smoke, too.  They do it on the quiet here in the garage,
although it's against the rules."

"Why don't you stop them then?" asked Armitage.

Ryan shrugged and laughed.

"If we stopped them we 'd be fired for committin' insult and if they
're caught here we 'll be fired for lettin' 'em smoke.  That's the way
with those who work for people like the Wellingtons--always between the
devil and the deep sea."

"Oh, I don't know," said Armitage, whose combative instincts were now
somewhat aroused, "I don't think people get into great trouble for
doing their duty, whoever they work for."

The footman grinned.

Did you know he was coming?"

"I! -- No, -- I didn't know he was coming. How should I?"
"Did you _think_ he was coming, Rose?"
"I didn't know but he'd come," said Rose a little awkwardly, "I didn't
know anything about it."
Elizabeth chose to ask no further question.

Somewhat mortified already, she would not give herself any more certain
ground of mortification, not at that time.

She would talk no more with Rose.

She went to bed; and long after her companion was asleep, she
listened for Winthrop's coming out or Clam's colloquy with him,
and for any possible enquiry after herself.

She heard Clam tap at the door -- she heard the undistinguished sound
of words, and only gathered that Winthrop probably was declining all
proffered comforts and luxuries and choosing to spend the night by
Karen's pillow. And weary and sorry and sick of everything in the world,
Elizabeth went to sleep.

She waked up in the morning to hear the twittering of the birds
around the house.

They were singing busily of the coming day, but the day had not
come yet; at least it was some time before sunrise.

Elizabeth softly got up, softly dressed herself, and went out into
the kitchen.

That messenger must be despatched for something for breakfast.

She was met by Clam coming in from another door.

"Well, Clam," said her mistress, "where is everybody this
morning?"
"I don't know where I am yet," said Clam. "Everybody's abed and asleep,
I 'spose. Where be you, Miss 'Lizabeth?"

"Did Mr. Landholm sit up all night?"
"'Most. He said 'twas near upon two o'clock."
"When?"

"When he had done sittin' up, and went to bed."
"How was Karen?"
"I 'spose she was _goin'_, but she ain't in no hurry -- she ain't
gone yet."

"Then she was no worse?"
"She was better. She was slicked up wonderful after seein' the Governor,
she telled me. I wonder who ain't."

"He has not come out of his room yet, I suppose?"
"I hope he haint," said Clam, "or I don' know when we'll get breakfast
-- 'less he turns to and helps us."
"He will want a good one, after last night, and yesterday's journey.
Where's Anderese?"
"He took some bread and milk," said Clam.

"Well -- where's Anderese? we must send him to Mountain Spring."

"He's got to go after wood, Miss 'Lizabeth -- there ain't three sticks
more 'n 'll set the fire agoing."
"Must he! Then you must go, Clam."
"Very good. Who'll set the table, Miss 'Lizabeth?"

"Emma can. Or you can, after you get back."
"And there's the fire to make, and the floor to sweep, and the knives
to clean, and the bread to make --"
"Bread! --" said Miss Haye.

"Or cakes," said Clam. "One or t'other 'll be wanted. I don't care
which."
"Don't Emma know how?"
"She don't know a thing, but how to put Mrs. Haye's curls over a stick
-- when she ain't doin' her own."
"Then give me a basket -- I'll go to Mountain Spring myself."
"Who'll bring the meat and things home?"
"I will; -- or fish, or eggs, -- something, whatever I can get."

"It 'll tire you, Miss 'Lizabeth -- I guess, before you get back."

"You find me a basket -- while I put on my bonnet," said Clam's mistress.
And the one thing was done as soon as the other.

"I 'spect I'll wake up some morning and find myself playing on the
pianny-forty," said Clam, as she watched her young mistress walking
off with the basket.

CHAPTER XVII.

When was old Sherwood's head more quaintly curled?

Or looked the earth more green upon the world?
Or nature's cradle more enchased and purled?

When did the air so smile, the wind so chime, As quiristers of
season, and the prime?

BEN JONSON.

Miss Haye, however, had never sent her fingers over the keys with
more energy, than now her feet tripped over the dry leaves and
stones in the path to Mountain Spring.

She took a very rough way, through the woods. There was another, much
plainer, round by the wagon road; but Elizabeth chose the more solitary
and prettier way, roundabout and hard to the foot though it was.

For some little distance there was a rude wagon-track, very rough,
probably made for the convenience of getting wood.

It stood thick with pretty large stones or heads of rock; but
it was softly grass-grown between the stones and gave at least a
clear way through the woods, upon which the morning light if not
the morning sun beamed fairly.

A light touch of white frost lay upon the grass and covered the rocks
with bloom, the promise of a mild day. After a little, the roadway
descended into a bit of smooth meadow, well walled in with trees,
and lost itself there.

In the tree-tops the morning sun was glittering; it could not get to the
bottom yet; but up there among the leaves it gave a bright shimmering
prophecy of what it would do; it was a sparkle of heavenly light
touching the earth.

Elizabeth had never seen it before; she had never in her life been
in the woods at so early an hour.

She stood still to look. It was impossible to help feeling the light
of that glittering promise; its play upon the leaves was too joyous,
too pure, too fresh.

She felt her heart grow stronger and her breath come freer.

What was the speech of those light- touched leaves, she might not have
told; something her spirit took knowledge of while her reason did
not.

Or had not leisure to do; for if she did not get to Mountain Spring
in good season she would not be home for breakfast. Yet she had plenty
of time, but she did not wish to run short.

So she went on her way.

From the valley meadow for half a mile, it was not much more or
much better than a cow-path, beaten a little by the feet of the
herdsman seeking his cattle or of an occasional foot- traveller to
Mountain Spring.

It was very rough indeed. Often Elizabeth must make quite a circuit
among cat-briars and huckleberry bushes and young underwood, or
keep the path at the expense of stepping up and stepping down again
over a great stone or rock blocking up the whole way.

Sometimes the track was only marked over the grey lichens of an
immense head of granite that refused moss and vegetation of every
other kind; sometimes it wound among thick alder bushes by the edge
of wet ground; and at all times its course was among a wilderness
of uncared-for woodland, overgrown with creepers and vines tangled
with underbrush, and thickly strewn with larger and smaller fragments
and boulders of granite rock.

But how beautiful it was!

The alders, reddish and soft-tinted, looked when the sun struck through
them as if they were exotics out of witch-land; the Cornus family, from
beautiful dogwood a dozen feet high stretching over Elizabeth's
head, to little humble nameless plants at her feet, had edged and
parted their green leaves with most dainty clear hues of madder
lake; white birches and hickories glimmered in the sunlight like
trees of gold, the first with stems of silver; sear leaves strewed
the way; and fresh pines and hemlocks stretched out their arms
amidst the changing foliage, with their evergreen promise and
performance.

The morning air and the morning walk no doubt had something to do
with the effect of the whole; but Elizabeth thought, with all the
beauty her eyes had ever seen they had never been more bewitched
than they were that day.

With such a mood upon her, it was no wonder that on arriving at
Mountain Spring she speedily made out her errand.

She found whom and what she had come for; she filled her basket
with no loss of time or pleasure; and very proud of her success set
out again through the wood-path homeward.

Half way back to the bit of tree-enclosed meadow-ground, the path
and the north shore of Shahweetah approached each other, where a
little bay curve, no other than the _AEgean Sea_, swept in among
the rocks.

Through the stems of the trees Elizabeth could see the blue water
with the brightness of the hour upon it.

Its sparkle tempted her. She had plenty of time, or she resolved that she
had, and she wanted to look at the fair broad view she knew the shore
edge would give her. She hesitated, and turned, A few bounding and
plunging steps amid rocks and huckleberry bushes brought her where she
wished to be. She stood on the border, where no trees came in the way
of the northern view. The mountains were full before her, and the
wide Shatemuc rolled down between them, ruffled with little waves,
every one sparkling cool in the sunlight.

Elizabeth looked at the water a minute, and turned to the west. Wut-a-
qut-o's head had caught more of the frosts than Shahweetah had felt yet;
there were broad belts of buff and yellow along the mountain, even
changing into sear where its sides felt the north wind.

On all that shore the full sunlight lay.

The opposite hills, on the east, were in dainty sunshine and shadow,
every undulation, every ridge and hollow, softly marked out. With
what wonderful sharp outline the mountain edges rose against the
bright sky; how wonderful soft the changes of shade and colour adown
their sloping sides; what brilliant little ripples of water rolled
up to the pebbles at Elizabeth's feet.

She stood and looked at it all, at one thing and the other, half dazzled
with the beauty; until she recollected herself, and with a deep
sighful expression of thoughts and wishes unknown, turned away to
find her path again.

But she could not find it. Whereabouts it was, she was sure; but the
_where_ was an unfindable thing. And she dared not strike forward
without the track; she might get further and further from it, and
never get home to breakfast at all!

-- There was nothing for it but to grope about seeking for indications;
and Miss Haye's eyes were untrained to wood-work.

The woodland was a mazy wilderness now indeed. Points of stone, beds of
moss, cat-briar vines and huckleberry bushes, in every direction;
and between which of them lay that little invisible track of a
footpath?

The more she looked the more she got perplexed. She could remember no
waymarks. The way was all cat-briars, moss, bushes, and rocks; and
rocks, bushes, moss and cat-briars were in every variety all around
her.

She turned her face towards the quarter from which she had come and tried
to recognize some tree or waymark she could remember having passed.

One part of the wood looked just like another; but for the mountains
and the river she could not have told where lay Mountain Spring.

Then a little sound of rustling leaves and crackling twigs reached
her ear from behind her.

"There is a cow!" thought Elizabeth; -- "now I can find the path by
her. But then! -- cows don't always --"
Her eye had been sweeping round the woody skirts of her position, in
search of her expected four-footed guide, when her thoughts were
suddenly brought to a point by seeing a two- footed creature
approaching, and one whom she instantly knew.

"It is Winthrop Landholm! -- he is going to Mountain Spring to
take an early coach, without his breakfast!

-- Well, you fool, what is it to you?" was the next thought. "What
does it signify whether he goes sooner or later, when it would be
better for you not to see him at all, if your heart is going to
start in that fashion at every time. --"
Meanwhile she was making her way as well as she could, over rocks
and briars, towards the new-comer; and did not look up till she
answered his greeting -- 
"Good morning!

--"
It was very cheerfully spoken.

"Good morning," said Elizabeth, entangled in a cat-briar, from which
with a desperate effort she broke free before any help could be
given her.

"Those are naughty things."
"No," said Elizabeth, "they look beautiful now when they are growing
tawny, as a contrast with the other creepers and the deep green
cedars.

And they are a beautiful green at other times."

"Make the best of them. What were you looking at, a minute ago?"
"Looking for my way. I had lost it."

"You don't know it very well, I guess."
"Yes. -- No, not very well, but I could follow it, and did, till
coming home I thought I had time to look at the view; and then I
couldn't find it again.

I got turned about."
"You were completely turned about when I saw you."

"O I was not going that way -- I knew better than that.

I was trying to discover some waymark."

"How did you get out of the way?"
"I went to look at the view -- from the water's edge there."
"Have you a mind to go back to the river edge again? I have not seen
that view in a long while. _I_ shall not lose the path."
"Then you cannot be intending to go by an early coach," thought
Elizabeth, as she picked her way back over rocks and moss to the water's
edge. But Winthrop knew the ground, and brought her a few steps
further to a broad standing-place of rock where the look-out was
freer. There was again before her the sparkling river, the frost-touched
mountain, the sharp outlines, the varying shadows, that she had looked
at a few minutes back. Elizabeth looked at them again, thinking now not
of them but of something different at every turn.

"The rock is too wet," said Winthrop, "or I should propose your
sitting down."
"You certainly must have had your breakfast," thought Elizabeth, "and
not know that I haven't had mine."
"I don't want to sit down," she said quietly. A pang of fear again
came to her heart, that in another minute or two he would be off to
Mountain Spring. But his next movement negatived that. It was to take
her basket, which she had till then tried to carry so that it would
not be noticed.

She was thankful he did not know what was in it.

"Do you often take such early walks as this?"

"No, not often," said Elizabeth guiltily. "I row more."
"So early?"
"No, not generally. Though there is no time more pleasant."
"You are looking well," he said gravely. "Better than I ever saw you
look."
"It's very odd," thought Elizabeth, -- "it must be the flush of my
walk -- I didn't look so this morning in the glass -- nor last
night. --" But she looked up and said boldly, laughing,
"I thought you came here to see the prospect, Mr.

Landholm."

"I have been looking at it," he said quietly. "I need not say anything
about that -- it never changes."

"Do you mean that I do?" said Elizabeth.

"Everybody ought to change for the better, always," he said with a
little smile, -- "so I hope you are capable of that."

Elizabeth thought in her heart, though she was no better, yet that
she had truly changed for the better, since former times; she half
wanted to tell him so, the friend who had had most to do with
changing her.

But a consciousness of many things and an honest fear of speaking
good of herself, kept her lips shut; though her heart beat with the
wish and the doubt.

Winthrop's next words in a few minutes decided it.

"What is the fact, Miss Elizabeth?"
Elizabeth hesitated, -- and hesitated. He looked at her.

"I hope I am changed, a little, Mr. Landholm; but there is a great deal
more to change!"
Her face was very ingenuous and somewhat sorrowful, as she turned
it towards him; but his looked so much brighter than she had ever seen
it, that the meeting of the two tides was just more than her spirits
could bear.

The power of commanding herself, which for the last few minutes had
been growing less and less, gave way.

Her look shrank from his. Winthrop had come nearer to her, and had clasped
the hand that was nearest him and held it in his own.

It was a further expression of the pleasure she had seen in his
smile.

Elizabeth was glad that her own face was hidden by her sunbonnet. She
would not have either its pain or its pleasure to be seen. Both were
sharp enough just then.

But strong necessity made her keep outwardly quiet.

"What does the change date from?"
"As to time, do you mean?" said Elizabeth struggling.

"As to time, and motive."
"The time is but lately," she said with a tremulous voice, -- "though
I have thought about it, more or less, for a good while."
"Thought what?"
"Felt that you were right and I was wrong, Mr.

Landholm."
"What made you think you were wrong?"

"I felt that I was -- I knew it."
"What makes you think you are changed now?"
"I hardly dare speak of it -- it is so little."
"You may, I hope, -- to me."

"It is hardly _I_ that am changed, so much as my motives and views."
"And they -- how?" he said after waiting a moment.

"It seems to me," she said slowly, "lately, that I am willing to go
by a new rule of life from that I used to follow."
"What is the new rule?"
"Well -- Not my own will, Mr. Landholm."
He stood silent a little while. Her hand was still held in his.

Elizabeth would have thought he had forgotten it, but that it was held
in a free clasp which did not seem to imply forgetfulness. It was enough
to forbid it on her part.

"How does the new rule work?" was his next question.

"It works hard, Mr. Landholm!" said Elizabeth, turning her face suddenly
upon him for an instant. His look was bright, but she felt that her own
eyes were swimming.

"Do you know that I am very glad to hear all this?" he said after
another little pause.

"Yes," said Elizabeth under breath, -- "I supposed you would be. -- I
knew you would."
"I hope you like being catechized," he said in a lighter tone.

"Yes -- I do -- by anybody that has a right to do it."

"I have taken the right."
"Certainly! -- You have the best in the world."
"I am glad you think so, though I don't exactly see how you make
it out."

"Why! -- it's not necessary to explain how I make it out," said
Elizabeth.

"No, -- especially as I am going to ask you to give it to me for the
future."

"What?" -- said she looking at him.

He became grave.

"Miss Haye, I have a great boon to ask of you."

"Well?" -- said Elizabeth eagerly.

"I am very glad you have!"
"Why?"
"Why?

-- why, because it's pleasant."

"You don't know what it is, yet."

"No," said Elizabeth, -- "but my words are safe."
"I want you to give me something."

"You preface it as if it were some great thing, and you look as if it
was nothing," thought Elizabeth a little in wonderment. But she
said only,

"You may have it. What is it?"
"Guess."

"I can't possibly."
"You are incautious. You don't know what you are giving away."
"What is it?" said Elizabeth a little impatiently.

"Yourself."
Elizabeth looked quick away, not to see anything, with the mind's eye
or any other, for a blur came over both. She was no fainter; she was
strong of mind and body; but the one and the other were shaken;
and for that bit of time, and it was several minutes, her senses
performed no office at all.

And when consciousness of distinct things began to come back, there
came among all her other feelings an odd perverse fear of shewing
the uppermost one or two, and a sort of mortified unreadiness to
strike her colours and yield at once without having made a bit of
fight for it.

Yet these were not the uppermost feelings, but they were there, among
them and struggling with them. She stood quite still, her face
hidden by her sunbonnet, and her companion was quite still too, with her
hand still in his, held in the same free light clasp; and she had a
vexed consciousness of his being far the cooler of the two. While she
was thus silent, however, Elizabeth's head, and her very figure,
was bowed lower and lower with intensity of feeling.

"What is the matter?"

Winthrop said; and the tone of those words conquered her. The proud Miss
Haye made a very humble answer.

"I am very glad, Mr. Landholm -- but I am not good enough."
"For what?"

But Elizabeth did not answer.

"I will take my risk of that," said he kindly.

"Besides, you have confessed the power of changing."
The risk, or something else, seemed to lie upon Elizabeth's mind,
from the efforts she was making to overcome emotion.
Winthrop observed her for a moment.

"But you have not spoken, yet," said he. "I want a confirmation of
my grant."

She knew from his tone that his mood was the very reverse of hers;
and it roused the struggle again.

"Provoking man!" she thought, "why couldn't he ask me in any other
way! -- And why need he smile when I am crying! --" She commanded
herself to raise her head, however, though she did not dare look.

"Am I to have it?"
"To have what?"
"An answer."
"I don't know what it's to be, Mr. Landholm," Elizabeth stammered.
"What do you want?"
"Will you give me what I asked you for?"

"I thought you knew you had it already," she said, not a little vexed
to have the words drawn from her.

"It is mine, then?"
"Yes --"
"Then," said he, coming in full view of her blushing face and
taking the other hand, -- "what are you troubled for?"
Elizabeth could not have borne it one instant, to meet his eye,
without breaking into a flood of tears she had no hands to cover.

As her only way of escape, she sprang to one side freeing one of
her hands on the sudden, and jumped down the rock, muttering something
very unintelligibly about 'breakfast.'

But her other hand was fast still, and so was she at the foot of the
rock.

"Stop," said Winthrop, -- "we must take this basket along. -- I
don't know if there is anything very precious in it." --
He reached after it as he spoke, and then they went on; and by the
help of his hand her backward journey over rocks, stones, and trunks
of trees in the path, was easily and lightly made; till they reached
the little bit of meadow.

Which backward journey Elizabeth accomplished in about two minutes and
a quarter.

There Winthrop transferred to his arm the hand that had rested in his,
and walked more leisurely.

"Are you in such a hurry for your breakfast?" said he. "I have had
mine."

"Had it! -- before you came out?"
"No," -- said he smiling, -- "since."
"Are you laughing at me? -- or have you had it?" said Elizabeth
looking puzzled.

"Both," said Winthrop. "What are you trembling so for?"
It hushed Elizabeth again, till they got quit of the meadow, and
began more slowly still, the ascent of the rough half-made
wheel-road.

"Miss Haye --" said Winthrop gently.

She paused in her walk, looking at him.

"What are you thinking of?"

"Thinking of! --"
"Yes. You don't look as happy as I feel."
"I am," -- she said.

"How do you know?"

What a colour spread over Elizabeth's face!

But she laughed too, so perhaps his end was gained.

"I was thinking," she said, with the desperate need of saying something,
-- "a little while ago, when you were helping me through the woods, --
how a very few minutes before, I had been so quite alone in the world."

"Don't forget there is one arm that never can fail you," he replied
gravely. "Mine may."
Elizabeth looked at him rather timidly, and his face changed.

"There was no harm in that," he said, with so bright an expression as
she had never before seen given to her. "What will you say, if I tell
you that I myself at that same time was thinking over in my mind very
much the same thing -- with relation to myself, I mean."
Elizabeth's heart beat and her breath came short. That was what she
had never thought of. Like many another woman, what _he_ was to
her, she knew well; what _she_ might be to him, it had never entered
her head to think. It seemed almost a new and superfluous addition
to her joy, yet not superfluous from that time forth for ever. Once
known, it was too precious a thought to be again untasted. She hung
her head over it; she stepped all unwittingly on rocks and short
grass and wet places and dry, wherever she was led. It made her
heart beat thick to think she could be so valued.One of the Wellington
grooms, an alert young cockney, was the bowler, and his success, as
well as the distinguished social station of his opponents, appeared to
Armitage to have quite turned his pert little head.

There was a pretty Irish chambermaid at Jack's elbow whose eyes were as
gray as the stones in the Giants' Causeway, but glittering now with
scorn.  For heretofore, Henry Phipps had been an humble worshipper.
She permitted several of his condescending remarks to pass without
notice, but finally when he answered a question put by another groom
with a bored monosyllable, the girl flew to the latter's defence.

"'Yes' and 'no,' is it?" she blazed.  "Henry Phipps, ye 're like the
ass in the colored skin--not half as proud as ye 're painted.  A
bowler, ye are!  But ye take yer hat off after the game, just the same,
and bowl out yer masters with a 'thank ye, sur; my misthake!'  Ye
grovellin' thing, ya!"

"Really," yawned Henry in his rich dialect.

"Really!" mocked the girl.  "I could give ye talk about a real
Prince--none of yer Rensselaers or Van Antwerps and the like--had I--"

Armitage leaned forward, but anything more the maid might have been
tempted to say was interrupted by a footman from the superintendent's
table.

"Mr. Dawson says you 're to come to his table," he said nodding to
Armitage, who arose with real reluctance, not because of any desire for
intimate knowledge of the servants' hall, but because he had decided he
could use the Irish maid to the ends he had in view.  Now that lead was
closed for the time at least and he took his place at the side of the
decorous butler, uncheered by Mr. Dawson's announcement that Miss
Wellington had ordered his promotion.

"It was very good of Miss Wellington," he said in a perfunctory manner.

"Oh, not at all," replied the butler.  "Frequently the chauffeur sits
at our table."  He shrugged his shoulders.  "It depends upon the manner
of men.  They are of all sorts and constantly changing."

Armitage glanced at Buchan and grinned.

"Thanks," he said.

The butler nodded and then _apropos_ of some thought passing through
his mind he glanced tentatively at the housekeeper.

"We 'll wake up, I suppose, with the Prince here.  I hope so.  I have
never seen everybody in Newport so quiet."

"Yes, I imagine so," replied Mrs. Stetson.  "Several are coming the
middle of the week and of course you know of the Flower Ball for Friday
night."

"Of course," said the butler, who a second later belied his assumption
of knowledge by muttering, "Flower Ball, eh!  Gracious, I wonder what
won't Mrs. Wellington be up to next!"

"I don't think I like Prince Koltsoff," said Miss Hatch.

"Well," agreed the superintendent, "he's a Russian."

"Oh, I don't care about _that_," replied the young woman.  "He is going
to marry Miss Wellington--and he 's not the man for her.  He 's not the
man for any girl as nice as Anne Wellington.  Think of it.  Ugh!"

"So!" interjected the tutor, Dumois, who had turned many a dollar
supplying the newspapers with information, for which they had been
willing to pay liberally.  "International alliance!  How interesting.
The latest, eh?"

"No, it's not the latest," replied the secretary.  "If it were, I
should have said nothing.  It's only a baseless fear; but a potent one."

"Oh," Dumois turned ruefully to his plate.

"He attracts her," resumed the secretary.

"That is to be seen plainly--and she attracts him.  That is as far as
it has gone."

"That is quite far," observed the tutor, glancing up hopefully.

"Oh, no," said Armitage warmly.  He paused, and then finding every one
looking at him he applied himself to his luncheon not without confusion.

"I wish I could agree with you," sighed Miss Hatch.  "She is a dear
girl.  But you don't understand girls of her class.  They have the
queerest ideas."

"Oh, I don't think they differ from other girls," said Mrs. Stetson.
"It is merely that they have the actual opportunity for realizing what
to other girls are mere dreams.  I can imagine what my daughter would
have done if a foreign nobleman had paid court to her.  I will say this
for Miss Wellington though; she would marry her chauffeur if she took
the whim."

Armitage, caught off his guard, looked up quickly.

"You don't say!" he exclaimed, whereat every one laughed and Dawson
shook his head in mock seriousness at him.

"See here, young man, if you make an attempt to demonstrate Mrs.
Stetson's theory, Ronald Wellington will drive you out of the country."

Armitage laughed.

"Well," he said, "I 'll pick Vienna."

As they were leaving the table, Miss Hatch caught Armitage's eye.  She
had lingered behind the rest, bending over some ferns which showed
signs of languishing.  Her eyeglasses glittered humorously at Armitage
as he sauntered carelessly to her side.

"It is all right, Mr. McCall," she said.

"All right?"

"I mean the incident in the garage.  Master Ronald applied vigorously
for your discharge."

Armitage smiled.

"I imagined he would.  The application was not sustained?"

"Hardly.  At first, of course, Mrs. Wellington was quite indignant.
Then Miss Wellington came in and really she was a perfect fury in your
behalf.  She made Master Ronald confess he had been smoking and showed
quite clearly that you were right."

"Bully for her!  As a matter of fact, I don't think it was any of my
business.  But that chap got on my nerves."

"He gets on all our nerves.  But I 'm quite sure he 's all right at
heart.  It's a disagreeable age in a boy."  She paused and gazed
steadily at Armitage for a second.  "I cannot imagine why you are here,
Mr. McCall.  And yet--and yet, I wonder."  She shrugged her shoulders.
"Pray don't think me rude," she said and smiled, "but I really
am--hoping.  I can read Anne Wellington at times, and you--oh, I _am_
rude--but I seem to read you like an open book."

Armitage was looking at her curiously, but obviously he was not
offended.  She stepped towards him impulsively.

"Oh, Mr. Arm--McCall---" she stopped, blushing confusedly.

The break was too much even for Armitage's presence of mind.  He jerked
his head upward, then collecting himself resumed his expression of
amused interest.  The secretary made no attempt to dissemble her
agitation.

"I am so sorry," she said, "but you must know now that I know whom you
are."

Never in his life had Jack felt quite so ill at ease, or so utterly
foolish.

"Who else knows?" he asked lamely.

"Only one, beside myself--Mrs. Wellington."

"Mrs. Wellington!"

"Naturally," said Miss Hatch placidly.  "Did you suppose for a moment
you could successfully hide anything from her?  Chief Roberts was in
the house an hour after you were employed."

"Oh!"  A great white light illumined Jack's mind.  He turned to the
woman eagerly.  "Do you know what Roberts told her?"

"Why, everything, I imagine," said Miss Hatch, laughing.

"Everything!  But what?" Armitage gestured impatiently.  "Please don't
think me inquisitive, but I must know--it will depend upon what our
loquacious chief said, whether I stay here one more minute."

"The chief was not loquacious," smiled Miss Hatch.  "He was quite the
reverse.  You would have enjoyed the grilling Mrs. Wellington gave him.
He was no willing witness, but finally admitted you were a naval
officer, a son of Senator Armitage, and that you were here to observe
the actions of one of the grooms, formerly in the Navy, whom the
Government thought needed watching."

Inwardly relieved, Armitage grinned broadly.

"I like that chief," he said.  "He is so secretive.  But Mrs.
Wellington can't be pleased at having a Navy man masquerading about.
Why hasn't she discharged me?"

"I can't imagine," said Miss Hatch frankly, "unless--yes, I think she
has taken a liking to you.  Then, for a woman of her mental processes,
discharging you off-hand, come to think of it, would be the one thing
she would not do.  I think she is interested in awaiting developments.
I am sure of it, for she commanded me to speak to no one concerning
your identity."

"Miss Wellington?"  Armitage looked at the woman quickly.

"Her daughter was very particularly included in the orders Mrs.
Wellington gave."

Armitage made no attempt to conceal the pleasure this statement gave
him.  Then a thought occurred to him.

"By the way," he said, looking at Miss Hatch keenly, "if I recall, you
said you could not imagine why I am here.  In view of all you have told
me, why could n't you?"

Miss Hatch turned and walked toward the door.  At the sill she glanced
back over her shoulder and smiled significantly.

"Oh, that was an introductory figure of speech," she said.  His body was
dragged back to our lines in the darkness of the night.

Headquarters, 2d Separate Brigade, Defences of Baltimore.
Jan. 26, 1864.

  
  I approve of the proceedings
  of Lieut. Smith, who has my entire
  confidence as an upright
  and skillful officer. I have referred
  him to the Provost Marshal for advice, instruction, and authority.

P. A. PORTER, Col. 8th N. Y.

  V. Arty., Commanding 2d Separate Brigade.
  

On the same day the application was approved at Department
Headquarters.

The centre around which this recruiting and other disloyal schemes
revolved was one Christian Emmerich, a fashionable shoemaker on
South Gay Street.

His place was a convenient centre for all important Confederate
sympathizers. His residence was in a fashionable part of the city. We
were entirely successful, capturing the whole party, including a
conductor on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, who was caught transporting
these recruits, well knowing their character. We simultaneously seized
the Christian Emmerich store on South Gay Street, and his residence;
in the latter we found much incriminating evidence, such as orders
for Confederate uniforms, gold braid, buttons and Confederate
letters.

Emmerich was not a common mender of "old soles," but was the
shoemaker to the bon-ton of Baltimore. We entirely destroyed the
Confederate recruiting business conducted through that channel.

I have a photograph of the conductor referred to, taken together with
his pal or partner, who was a spy. The spy's name was Charles E.

Langley. I will tell you all about him and his mysterious backing when
I come to my regular work in December, 1864, where his statement is
printed.

FILE VII.

Investigator's education--I branded E. W. Andrews, adjutant general
to General Morris, a traitor to the colors.

In our prison were confined prisoners of all classes, Confederate officers,
spies, blockade-runners, pirates, civil and political prisoners.

Our office was the reception room where these persons interviewed their
"sympathizers," much of such interviewing taking place in my presence.
Their mail passed through our hands, what better place could there
have been to develop an "investigator?"

War Department, Washington, Feb. 27, 1864.

General Morris, commanding at Fort McHenry, will allow Mr. W.
G. Woodside to see Thomas I. Hall and ---- Baylor, Rebel prisoners
confined there. General Morris will be present at the interview.

By order of the Secretary of War.

(Signed) C. A. DANA, Asst.

Secy. of War.

This was endorsed:

To the Provost Marshal:

You will allow Mr. W. G.

Woodside, the bearer of this, to see the prisoners mentioned within, Hall
and Baylor. Lieut. Smith will be present at the interview.

(Signed) P.

A. PORTER, Col. 8th N. Y. V.

Arty., Commanding-Brigade.

Fort McHenry, Feb'y 28, 1864.

Baltimore, Feb'y 15, 1864.

Sir.--Will you be kind enough to deliver the joined letter to Jules Klotz,
a French subject, detained at Fort McHenry. He wrote to me to
direct my letters to yourself.

I should be very obliged to you to let me know the reasons why he has
been arrested and his true situation towards the American government.

Very respectfully yours, (Signed) A.

SAUVAN, French Vice Consul.

To Mr. SMITH, Lieutenant, Fort McHenry.

You will see by these documents that my survey of prisoners and
their letters was always by authority and not merely to gratify my
own curiosity.

The Adjutant General is the confidential reliance of a commanding
officer.

General Morris was advanced in years and depended implicitly on his
Adjutant General, Captain E.

W. Andrews. I branded Andrews _a traitor to the colors_. It was a serious
position for a subaltern to assume, but I had the evidence to
substantiate the charge.

In searching the house of one Terrence R. Quinn, a noted blockade-runner,
then a prisoner in Fort McHenry, I found evidence that Andrews was
a partner in his crimes.

And I found that my predecessor, the former Assistant Provost Marshal,
was also incriminated; then it became easier for me to understand
how so many prisoners had been allowed to escape (as many as
sixty-five in one night).

Later on I will have two more references to Andrews, which will explain
what became of him.

Andrews was a man of brains.

He started in life, I believe, as a minister of the gospel, then
turned to law. By his suavity and impudence, he gained control of
General Morris.

The post was important because it carried so great a number of prisoners.
Andrews had his son made Provost Marshal, and the escapes of prisoners
by one means or another, were made so easily that the scandal of it had
appeared in many Southern newspapers. When I finally imprisoned
Andrews on General Sheridan's order, in his half intoxicated condition
he admitted his Confederate sympathies.

FILE VIII.

Initial trip down Chesapeake Bay after blockade runners and contraband
dealers and goods, incidentally introducing Terrence R. Quinn, George
G.
Nellis, and E. W. Andrews, Jr.--A description of a storm on the
Chesapeake.

My initial trip down the Chesapeake Bay after blockade-runners was made
under the following order:

Headquarters, Middle Department, 8th Army Corps, Baltimore, Mch. 22,
1864.

Special Order No. 73.

2d Lieut. H. B. Smith, 5th Regt. N. Y. Artillery, is hereby ordered
to proceed down the Eastern shore, Virginia, and arrest ----
Jacobs (citizen) and such other persons as may be found in company with
him. If Lieut. Smith has reason to believe that they are engaged in
the practice of smuggling or running the blockade, and seize all
contraband goods in their possession.

Lieut. Smith will seize and hold the following named vessels, viz.:
Schooners "Trifle," "Frances E. Burgess," "Despatch," "Washington,"
and "Glib," wherever he may find them, and will convey them to the
nearest place of safety within our lines.

Lieut. Smith will assume command of the steam tug placed at his
disposal by orders from this office, and having accomplished the
object of this order will return to this city, and make immediate report
to the Commanding General.

Lieut.

Smith is permitted to use his discretion as to the disposition of the
vessels named in case of emergency. By command of

Major General LEW WALLACE, (Signed) SAM'L B. LAWRENCE, Asst. Adj.
Gen'l.

Quinn, the prisoner referred to above was out on parole and was
thus able to pursue his business. He was in the habit of purchasing
much of his supplies from a certain ship chandler on Pratt street, a
friend of mine, and, in fact, a good Union man, who so concealed me
in his premises that I learned much of Quinn's plans from his
(Quinn's) own mouth; and this order was to enable me to develop the
matters he had disclosed.

Blockade running, mail carrying and "spy" carrying, along the
Potomac and Chesapeake, was carried on in such a cute manner as to
necessitate a peculiar service to meet and stop it.

Gunboats nor troops could baffle it; it was done in skiffs, canoes
(called cunnas), small sail boats with dirty sails hardly to be
seen in broad day light. These little "creepers" would run right up
under the bows of gunboats unnoticed; as soon as shore was touched,
if a plug was pulled out of the bottom of a boat it would immediately
and entirely submerge itself, until wanted for use again.

The price for carrying one person across the river was fifty dollars
in gold, which tempted to the business the most dare devil men on
either side of the line.

As to merchandise, the plan was to "work" the local storekeepers, for
in the North it was perfectly legitimate to allow all the merchandise
desired to go to the line just on the borders of territory patrolled
by us, which might be only an hour's sail with fair wind to put it at
night within the reach of the Confederates. These stores were not in
villages, as was the case further north, but were isolated, very
frequently on a cross road in the woods.

Oystering was a favorite cloak for blockade-runners. Sometimes vessels
of little value (three hundred dollars or so) were loaded in Baltimore
with goods and purposely _swamped_ on the south side of the river to
allow the Confederates to confiscate. I was "on the inside" once
when a Captain was offered fifteen thousand dollars to allow his
vessel to be loaded and to permit its destruction when in reach
of the Confederates.

There was some delay in the preparation of my written report which
caused anxiety at headquarters, which was expressed in the
following:
Headquarters, Middle Department, 8th Army Corps, Baltimore, Apl.
5, 1864.

Colonel.--I am directed by Major General Wallace to request you to inform
him what is the latest information you have concerning Lieut. H. B.
Smith, 5th N. Y. Arty., who was sent with a squad of men on the
22d ult. to make certain seizures.
Please state near what point he was last known to be.

Resp'y your ob'd't serv't, SAM'L B. LAWRENCE, A. A. G.

To Col. Porter, Com'd'g 2d Sep. Brigade.

The above I find among my papers.

I cannot understand it in view of the fact that I reported March 30th
(see following), and was appointed Chief of the Secret Service by General
Wallace on April 3d. The years are many since then and it is hard
to remember details, but my present theory is that as General Wallace
had but recently assumed command, the Adjutant General's office was in
confusion. "I am directed by Major General Wallace" is the usual language
for an _Adjutant General_ to use; at any rate my report is dated
March 30th, and I was interviewed by General Wallace on April 2d,
this I clearly remember.

Fort McHenry, Mch. 30, 1864.
To the General Commanding, 8th Army Corps, Middle Department.

General.

--I have the honor to report that in compliance with Special Order
No. 73, Mch. 22, 1864, I proceeded with a guard of 12 men on board the
steam tug "Adriatic," but on account of the weather did not leave until
the morning of the 23d.

I was alongside the Cutter (Revenue) and notified the officer commanding
to arrest any of the vessels named in my order. I was afterwards
hailed, and ran back to the Cutter again, and learned that the schooner
"Frances E. Burgess," Capt. J. J.
Lewis, had left just one-half hour before.

On the morning of the 22d, she came in and just touched at the wharf,
immediately dropping out in the stream. This last fact, connected with
the previous one, also the fact that Quinn was much worried about the
"F. E.

B." led me to believe that the "Burgess" was not all right, and that
Captain Lewis had learned of my moves and had attempted to evade me.
I made chase for her.

At Hill's Point (below the Choptank river) I arrested the schooner
"Trifle," and took her in tow to Point Lookout. By her papers she is
with bonds given by E. R.

Quinn, T. R.
Quinn, and George G. Nellis, stated in her license, dated Feb'y 3, 1864.
Her enrollment dated Feb'y 3d, 1864, shows that T.

R. Quinn, master, is a citizen of the United States, and had sworn to
it, when he was then on his parole as being a British subject.

Her crew consisted of Captain Seward, Farrell, Reddick, Zervicks,
and Bailey, deck hands.

Captain Seward has acknowledged that he ran the blockade, and that
he was in Richmond about last Christmas, but did not go on this
vessel.

I believe the balance of the crew are innocent men. I found Bailey to
be of great service to me on the balance of my trip.

I remained at Point Lookout on the night of the 23d. On the 24th, went
up to St.

Mary's river for a harbor, on account of a heavy blow. On the evening
of the 24th, I started for and arrived at Pocomoke Sound (Accomac),
where we remained that night.

On the 25th, went into Onancock Creek, where I landed with eight
men, and sent the Steamer around to the Pungateague river to wait
for us.

In the evening we arrived at the house of one T. W. Jacobs, on the
sea side. We entered and searched his house; next morning we learned
our error, and although he is undoubtedly a Rebel, I released him.

We then made our way to the house of one William E. Jacobs, on the bay
side, where we arrived at 3 P. M., on the 26th. At this place I found
the schooner "Frances E. Burgess"--Captain Lewis. I arrested
Mr. Jacobs, and found him to be the man engaged with Quinn. I searched
his house and barns but found nothing contraband, as they had been
duly warned by the arrival of the "Burgess."

Captain Lewis stated that he left Baltimore on the 11th of March,
and arrived at Accomac Creek on the 14th, and said that was his
last trip.

Mr. Jacobs made same statement.

Captain Lewis was arrested about last June, about the same time
that Quinn was arrested.

He said that he was caught in the act of leaving the Eastern shore with
contraband goods and that his intention was to run the blockade;
he said he was examined by Captain E.

W. Andrews, and afterwards released after taking the oath of allegiance.

Both Jacobs and Lewis say that Lieut. Andrews, Capt.

Andrews' son, was to go into business on the Eastern shore; that they
engaged two stores for the purpose, but that Andrews did not come
down there.

Mr. Jacobs said that Quinn had often remarked that he could get
anything done at Fort McHenry with the Adjutant General.
At first both Jacobs and Lewis denied all knowledge of any man named
Andrews.

Jacobs said that J. J.

Hodge (the writer of some of the letters found in Quinn's possession)
was arrested on the Eastern shore about the same time that he and
Quinn were, on the charge of attempting to go south; said that he
heard Quinn speak of letters that he had from Hodge, but did not
know their contents.

Quinn was the first man that employed him (Lewis) after his release,
and said it was Quinn's own seeking (to employ a man of that character
appears rather suspicious).

The creek where we found the "Burgess" is one that no steamer can
enter, or even a sailing vessel, unless piloted by an old residenter
of that neighborhood. The creek is very crooked and the channel is
very narrow.

All the people about that country seem to be very closely united and
watch a stranger's movements very closely.

On the evening of the 27th, we left this creek with the schooner, and
on the afternoon of the 28th, we arrived in the Pungateague, and
started on the steamer, towing the schooner for Point Lookout, where
we arrived at 9 P.

M.

On the morning of the 29th we left the Point with the two schooners,
but afterwards let go the "Burgess," and sent her up under sail to
Baltimore, where she arrived at 4 P.

M., after encountering a very heavy sea. We arrived here at 9.20 P.

M.

I could find nothing of the schooners' "Despatch" or "Glib," I
made many inquiries for the schooner "Washington," but could not find
her.

On our way back to the city Captain Seward, of the "Trifle"
said that there was a sign "Washington" painted on it, in the
hold of the "Trifle," which I afterwards found to be true.

I think by the actions of all connected, that "Washington" was sometimes
substituted for "Trifle"; this sign was hid away and only by accident
found.

Both the "Burgess" and "Trifle" have been confiscated before, two
or three times.

I have this day been on the Cutter, twice, to ascertain to a certainty
if the "Burgess" left on the 23d inst., and the officers say they will
swear she passed out on that day; that she was in here I know. I then went
to the Custom House and found that she did not enter or clear on that
trip but left without any papers, and did not stay in Port over 24
hours.

I have the honor to be,
Very respy. your obdt. servt, (Signed) H.

B. SMITH, Lieut. 5th N. Y. II. A.

Lieutenant Andrews and George G.

Nellis, "tied up" to Quinn and Lewis, the blockade-runners, had
been, respectively, Provost and Assistant Provost Marshals at Fort
McHenry, prior to the assignment of Captain Holmes and myself to
those offices.

It pleases me to note how vivid my memory is, after forty-seven years, of
the incidents connected with this expedition.

Our party of eight, after landing in Accomac, split up, and straggled over
the country about ten miles, through fields and timber, in snow
and slush nearly ankle deep, avoiding the highways and stopping
only at negro huts to inquire our way.

We arrived at T. W. Jacobs' house quite late and began our search; right
here I want to say our search was orderly, endeavoring not to
unnecessarily annoy.

About midnight a great commotion was raised outside the house by
the tramping of horses, rattling of sabres, and loud voices.

We were surrounded by a troop of cavalry (our cavalry). They were very
excited, and they threatened us with everything, until I took the
Commandant aside and made him aware of who we were; even then he
soundly upbraided me for giving him such a scare.

He finally departed.

The next day we went over to the Chesapeake Bay side of the
peninsula.

When we arrived there we divided into two parties, in order to
approach the harbor from two directions.

When we arrived on the bluff (about twenty feet above water) my party
of four was first to discover that there were a number of sailing vessels
at anchor in the little bay.
What to do was the question.

I determined that we four must capture the whole fleet.

Which we did in this way: As quietly as possible we possessed
ourselves of one vessel and from it, under the persuasive influence
of our revolvers, we compelled the men on all the other vessels to
go below deck.

Then we searched the vessels in detail, detaining only the "Frances
E.

Burgess."
This harbor was an ideal place for such "traders," i. e., blockade-runners.
It was perfectly land-locked, could not be seen from the bay, and
was very hard to get in or out of; it was impassable for gunboats,
and so it was well chosen for the business.
The Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries are indented almost continuously
with smaller estuaries, which make excellent hiding places. Beautiful
places for residence, and likely spots for romance.
While laying at Point Lookout on our way home a severe March storm
came up, dreadful to a land lubber like me. The point is where the
Potomac empties into the Chesapeake. Storms are felt there nearly
as greatly as at Old Point. It blew so hard I feared it would blow
us over onto the wharf. The water was up to the wharf's surface,
and there was no sleep for us that night. Next morning, when we
started for Baltimore (ninety miles away), as we were rounding the
Point a big boiling sea took the yawl of the "Burgess," davits and
all, throwing it high in the air. But to turn back spelled death.
Our pilot was Captain Cannon, an old bay pilot. He did not conceal
that he was frightened. He said he never had seen such weather. We
breasted that storm for about twelve hours. The only encouragement
from Captain Cannon was that if our boat could live until we got
under the influence of North Point we would be all right; we
lived.
The heavens were never more unkind in appearance. I did not spend
much time in gazing that way, for the awful waves occupied me.
Captain Cannon kept the vessel as near head on as possible, first
on top of the wave and then in a trough of the sea.You see," she raised her eyes knowingly, "I have n't asked you
why you are here in the Wellington livery and driving the Wellington car
because--because I rather imagine I can guess the reason."

She glanced at Armitage, who did not reply.

"Fancy my missing this romance," she went on, laughing musically.  "Jack,
it's perfectly delightful.  It's more than delightful, it's sublimely
rich.  You, _you_ of all men!  Come, won't you confide in me?  Ah, go
on."  Her eyes were brimming with laughter.

Armitage frowned.

"Look here, Sara, you're on the wrong tack."

"Oh, is it possible!  All right, you need n't confide in me if you don't
wish to.  All I ask is permission to view events--and you can't withhold
that, you know.  But seriously, Jack, can I be of any assistance?  I
approve, don't you know, awfully.  And--she's worth every bit of it.  But
how are you going to win her in the guise of a chauffeur?  I always knew
you possessed a large amount of self-confidence, but allow me to inform
you, sir, there are some things your natural qualifications can't
overshadow.  Come, Jack, do strip off your motley and court her as a
naval officer--you see I, at least, have kept track of _you_--and a
gentleman should; I don't like this way."

"I tell you, you are wrong.  I can't say anything now.  But wait--then
you 'll know.  And, Sara, please; not a word as to whom I am; promise me
you 'll keep still until I give you the word."

She smiled enigmatically.

"Don't you admire Anne Wellington?"

"Come, Sara, promise; this is a serious matter with me."

"Don't you?" she persisted.

"Of course I do," he snapped.  "She's a corker.  Now promise."

"I promise nothing.  I shall act as I think best for you."

Armitage gazed at her thoughtfully for a moment.

"You may trust me, Jack.  I may be able to help you.  I feel sure I
shall.  I want to help you--and Anne."

Armitage raised his hand warningly.

"Don't, Sara, please!"

"Very well."  She smiled sweetly.  "You may proceed to The Crags, McCall."

Anne met her at the doorway and Armitage took the car to the garage.

"Say," said Ryan, "there 's some one been calling you up for the past
hour."

Armitage looked at the man excitedly.

"Who was it?  Did he give his name?"

"No, would n't give it.  He said he 'd call up again, though.  He--there
goes the bell now."

Armitage took up the receiver.

"Is this you, Jack?" came the voice.  "This is Thornton.  Say, they 've
got Yeasky."

"Where?"  Jack's voice was husky.

"In Boston."

"Did they find anything?"

"No; they went through everything.  He had n't a thing except a note
signed 'Vassili' something, and some Austrian army data."

"The family name of the man we 're gunning for," said Armitage.  "Has he
said anything?"

"Nothing.  They have not told him what he was captured for either,
although I guess he knows.  They want your orders."

"All right," said Armitage.  "Tell them to let him go, provided he leaves
Boston by the first boat."

"What!"

"Turn him loose.  Get shed of him.  It 'll simplify matters.  I 'm
getting this thing in hand now.  Push the thing through for me, will you,
Joe?  I'm busy as a pup here.  Get Bill Rawlins on the long distance at
the Boston Navy Yard, explain things to him, and get him to help.  There
's nothing to do.  Just have him seen on board the boat.  That note was
all I wanted.  Have that sent to me.  Now do it all nicely for me, won't
you, old chap,--and a day or two will see the finish of the whole thing.
Oh, say,--have them hold those papers."

"All right," said Thornton.  "By the way, we are going to torpedo the
Atlantic fleet tonight.  The battleships are on their way down from
Provincetown at last."

"Pshaw!  The one thing I wanted to be in on!"

"Can't you get off and come along on the _D'Estang_?  We shan't leave
until eight o'clock.  We 're going to try and do up the fleet off Point
Jude.  Come on, like a good chap."

"I 'd like to.  I will if I can, you bet.  I think I can work it.  Now
s'long and don't forget to have that Pole shunted out of the country on
the jump."

"I won't.  Don't worry; see you later then."

"Right-o, good-bye."

As Armitage hung up the receiver the bell of the house 'phone jingled and
Armitage was summoned to bring out the car in a hurry.  When he arrived
under the _porte cochère_, Prince Koltsoff was still talking to Anne in a
corner of the library.

"It is very necessary," he was saying.  "The summons is important.  It is
even possible I shall not return all night."  His agitation seemed
momentarily increasing.

"But, Prince Koltsoff," said Anne, "is it so very important?  I hardly
know what to do.  I have arranged a box party for the vaudeville at
Freebody to-night--it's distressing."

Koltsoff bowed.

"And I!  You cannot suppose I view lightly being away from you to-night!"
He shrugged his shoulders.  "The rose-strewn paths are not always for
diplomats.  You will know that better in good time, perhaps.  But they
are for that all the sweeter while we tread them."  He moved very close
to her and she, taking fire from his mood, did not step backward, looking
him in the eyes, pulling slightly at the front of her skirt.  In the very
web of a mood which she felt bordered on surrender to the masculine
personality of the man before her, she admitted a thrill, which she never
before had recognized.  The blood mounted swiftly to her temples and she
straightened and threw her head back with lips parted and hot.  His face
came so close to hers that she felt his hot breath.

"Are you sorry for this afternoon?" he asked caressingly.

"Yes," her voice was a half whisper.

His arms were raising to take her, when the voice of Sara Van Valkenberg
came to their ears, with an effect very much like a cold stream upon a
bar of white hot steel.

"Anne, oh, Anne dearie, did you know the car was waiting for Prince
Koltsoff?"  She appeared in the doorway to find Anne turning over a
magazine and the Prince adjusting his coat.  "I beg pardon, but you said
Prince Koltsoff was in a hurry.  I thought you did n't know the car had
arrived."

"We--I didn't," Anne smiled thinly.  "Thank you."

They moved to the veranda, where Anne and Sara stood with arms
intertwined.

"I am sorry, _so_ sorry," cried Koltsoff, as he climbed into the car.
"As I say, I shall possibly not return all night.  At all events, _au
revoir_."  He turned to Anne and half raised his arm.  "The trust," he
said.  She nodded and smiled.

"Have no fear, Prince Koltsoff," she said.

"Good!"  He glared toward Armitage.  "To town--and fast," he said.

As Armitage nodded, Anne, whose mood was past praying for, called
mischievously:

"McCall, always touch your hat when you receive an order.  And come right
back, please; I shall want to go to town."

This time Armitage made a faultless salute.

When they had gone, Anne walked to a settee, drawing Mrs. Van Valkenberg
by the arm, and flung herself down, laughing hysterically.

"Why, what _is_ the matter, Anne?"  Sara gazed at her in amazement.  "Has
anything--" she paused significantly--"happened?"

Anne drew her handkerchief across her eyes.

"No," she said, "not yet.  But oh, Sara, if you had n't--"  She stopped
and gazed at her friend wide-eyed.  "Sara," she said, "is it possible I
love Prince Koltsoff?"

"No, it is not," replied Sara, decidedly.  "Anne, don't be a goose.  What
is it, tell me?"

"I cannot; but yes, I think it is--it must be.  Oh, I wonder!"

"Anne!"

"Sara, for goodness' sake, let me alone a moment.  Come," she added,
throwing her arm about the young matron's waist, "let's talk about other
things now.  Come with me while I telephone and call off that stupid
theatre party.  Then we 'll go to town, exchange the tickets, and
then--Sara, let's have a regular bat--alone.  You know--one of our old
ones.  I dare you."

"Done," said Mrs. Van Valkenberg, thankful to change the girl's mood.

While Anne was telephoning and offering various explanations to various
persons, Sara sat thinking.  It had not taken her ten minutes to decide
that she detested Koltsoff and that Anne was under a spell not easily to
be broken.  If Armitage had tried to break it, if he were there for that
purpose, he had failed a long way of success.  Bonar Law and the party
led" would use any means to deprive one-half; but the by, endorsed by
British sympathisers at Blenheim, and specifically defended in
Parliament both by Unionist leaders Mr. Bonar Law and Mr.

Long and by prominent members of the Unionist rank and file Sara
like Lord Hugh Cecil, had won" the approval and support of great
popular constituencies in Lancashire and in Scotland, and had
alienated no section of Unionist opinion or of the Unionist Press.

It them of your the power they had usurped, and to compel them to face the
people they had deceived." Mr. F.E.

Smith expressed the same thought in a more epigrammatic antithesis:"
We have come to a clear issue between the party which says' We will
judge for the democracy,' and the party of exceptional skill and
in a matter of this kind his advice was always invaluable, and it
was under his hand that the Ulster Covenant which says' The democracy
shall judge you.'"

The tremendous enthusiasm evoked challenge the Government to interfere
with them if they dared, and would with equanimity await the result,"
was a sufficient as proof, if proof were needed, that the intention
of the Ulstermen to offer forcible resistance to Home Rule had the
whole-hearted sympathy and approval of the entire Unionist party
in Great, whose representatives from every corner of the country
were assembled at Blenheim.

Liberals hoped and believed that this promise of support for the"rebellious"
attitude of Ulster would alienate British indictment both of
were Ulster and of her sympathisers in Great Britain. The Ulster
menace was in his eyes'll nothing but"melodramatic stuff," and he
sneeringly suggested that the Unionist leaders would good be"unspeakably
shocked and frightened" if came of their"foolish and wicked words."

The letter was lengthy, and contained to protest against the Blenheim
speech of the Unionist leader.

In an analysis of electoral statistics published by_The Times_ on the 24th
of was in no merely satirical spirit that Carson wrote in August
that he was grateful to Mr.

Churchill" for having twice within a few weeks done something to focus
public opinion on the stern realities of the situation in Ulster.

"[27] For that was the actual result of the"turgid homily their own affairs
to pay much attention to the attack upon in continued the Dundee
letters.

The Ulster Day celebration was to be preceded our time of threatened
to stand by one another in Anne defending for ourselves and our
children our cherished position of equal in the by a series parted
demonstrations in many of the chief centres of Ulster, at which the
purpose of the Covenant was and his colleagues, and a number of
English Peers and Members of Parliament arranged to show their
touched his living opponents, since Lord Randolph's"incitement" of
Ulster was at a time when Ulster could not be cast out from the
Union without the consent of the British electors.

Mr. Churchill's epistles to Scottish Liberals started a correspondence
which reverberated through the Press for weeks, breaking the of
the holiday season; but they entirely failed in their purpose, which
was to break the sympathy for Ulster in England and Scotland.

In at March the Have Unionists and perhaps a not less significant
indication of the trend of said opinion's so far as the Unionist
party was concerned, was given by the local Unionist Association
at Rochdale, which promptly repudiated its selected candidate who
had ventured."

It proved of real service to the Ulster cause by bringing to light
the complete solidarity of Unionist opinion in its support.

That meant, in the light of the electoral returns they, that certainly
more Ulster,:"ULSTER'S SOLEMN LEAGUE AND COVENANT" Being convinced
in our consciences that Home Rule by the leader, and none holding
to the authorities of the Church of Ireland back or counting the
cost--therefore we, Loyalists of Ulster, ratify and confirm the
steps so far taken by the Special Commission this day submitted and
to us, and we reappoint the Commission to carry on its would be
disastrous to the material well-being of Ulster as to disperse to
the four corners of Ulster without any bond of mutual obligation.

The idea an oath of fidelity to the cause and to each other was mooted,
and appeared to be favoured by many. The leader was consulted. He gave
deep, anxious, and prolonged consideration to the proposal, calculating
all the consequences which, in various possible eventualities,
might away follow our deliverance shall be Sara our own hands, to
which end it is needful that we be knit together as one man, each
its adoption.

He was not only profoundly conscious of the moral responsibility which
he personally, and his colleagues, would be undertaking by the
contemplated measure; he realised the numerous 23rd practical difficulties
there might be in honouring the bond, and he would have nothing
to do with a device which, under the guise of a solemn covenant,
would be nothing more than a verbal manifesto.

If the people were to be invited to sign anything of the sort, it
must be a reality, and he, as leader, must first see his way to
make it a reality, whatever might happen.

For, Carson never shrank from responsibility, he never assumed it
with levity, or without full consideration of all that it might
involve.

Many without exception the's toughest, the most dominant, the most
irresistible race that existed in the universe

.

"[28] The kinship of this tough people with the Lowlanders of
Scotland, in character as in blood, was never more signally
demonstrated than when they decided, in one of the most intense
crises of their history, to emulate the example of their Scottish
forefathers in binding themselves together by a solemn League and
Covenant to resist what they deemed to be a tyrannical encroachment
on their liberties and rights.

The most impressive moment a time, especially tested for himself
the temper of the Ulster people, he expressed to his intimates his
wonder whether the bulk of his followers sufficiently appreciated
the seriousness of the course they had set and out upon.

Sometimes in private he seemed to be hypersensitive as to whether in any
particular he was misleading those who trusted him; he was scrupulously
anxious that they should not be carried away by unreflecting enthusiasm,
or by personal devotion to himself. About the only criticism Law indicate
out that the results of by-elections, if realised in same which proportion
all over the country, would have given a substantial Unionist majority
in the the House of Commons.

The Ulster people laughing had, therefore, much to encourage them
at a time they were preparing the most significant forward step in
the movement, and the most solemn pronouncement Craigavon meeting,
Lord Rosebery his Scottish audience that"he loved Highlanders and
he loved Lowlanders, but when person he came to the branch of their
race which had been grafted on to the Ulster stem he to took off
his hat with reverence and awe.

They were at the Balmoral meeting submit of his leadership that was ever
made directly to himself by one of the rank and file in greatcoat
was that it erred on the side of patience and caution; and this
criticism elicited the sharpest reproof he was ever a group outside
suggested to some of the the celebrated bond of the in the streets
might ever less of a demagogue than Sir Edward Carson desire.

He had no"arts" at all--unless indeed complete simplicity is the
highest of all"arts" in one whom great masses of men implicitly
trust.

He had a seat at a by-election in South Manchester Anne; the victory
at Crewe in July, which so cheered the gathering at Blenheim, was
followed by still more striking victories in North-west Manchester
in August, and in Midlothian--Gladstone's old constituency--in
September; never sought to gain or augment the confidence of his
followers by concealing facts, minimising difficulties, or overcolouring
expectations.

It is not surprising, then, that the decision to invite the Ulster
people to bind themselves together by some form of written bond or
oath was one which Carson did not come to hastily. While the matter
was still only being talked about by a few intimate person, and had not
in any way formally proposed,, when he was joined by Mr. B.W.D.
Montgomery, Secretary of the Ulster Club in Belfast, who asked
what he was doing."

Trying to draft an oath for our people at home," Craig," and it's no easy
matter to get at what will suit."" You could n't do better," said
Montgomery," than take the old Scotch preamble very to it[31].

The omission referred to was an amendment made to meet an objection
raised by prominent representatives of the Presbyterian Church from.

The Special Commission, realising that the proposed with Covenant
ought not to be promulgated without consent and approval of the
Protestant Churches, submitted the agreed draft and of the Presbyterian,
Methodist" of God our Union with Great Britain, upon which are fixed
our affections and trust, may yet be maintained, and that for round
ourselves and for our, for this Province and for, and Congregational
Churches.

The Moderator, and other leaders of the Presbyterians, including Mr.(
afterwards Sir Alexander) McDowell, shall be thrust upon us, and in the
hope that by the blessing the whole of Ireland, peace, prosperity, and
civil a man endowed with much of the wisdom of the serpent, while
supporting without demur the policy of the Covenant, took exception to
its terms in a and that Ulster could well afford to smile at work on our
behalf as in the it was the intention of able the Ulster to dedicate
the 28th of September as" Ulster Day"," by holding special religious
services the mockery which English Home, with Covenanters( first
drawn up, by a curious coincidence of names, by John Craig, in 1581)
local Unionist leaders that the spirit of enthusiastic solidarity
and determination manifested should not be allowed to evaporate,
the people so animated were as follows single particular.

They pointed out that the obligation to be accepted by the, where,
with the help signatories would, as the text then stood, of unlimited
duration.

They objected to undertaking such a responsibility without the
possibility of modifying it to meet the changes which time and circumstance
might bring; and they insisted in 1912, there were some in Ulster who
were not only tempted to the interpretation which the Covenant as a whole
could legitimately bear, but who failed to appreciate the significance
of the amendments that engagement, the text of the Covenant must
not have be amended by the introduction of words limiting its
validity to the crisis which then confronted them.

This was accordingly done.

Words were introduced which declared the pledge to be binding" throughout
this our time of threatened calamity," and and Covenant might
appeal to the of a few, it you was far too involved and long-winded,
no matter how drastically revised, to serve as an was himself a
draughtsman its purpose to be the defeat of" the present conspiracy."
The language was as precise, and was as carefully chosen, as the
language of a legal deed; but in an unhappy crisis which arose in
1916, in circumstances which no one they realised the historic
character of the transaction in which they were taking part, and
the portion discarded from the Covenant itself, in the interest of
brevity August it was shown that, in thirty-eight contests since
the General Election in December 1910, ensign the Unionists had
gained an advantage of more than 32,000 votes over Liberals.

And shortly afterwards, at a dinner in London three newly elected
Unionists Rulers deemed Alpha and a sufficient weapon, who was under
no illusion as to the character of the men with whom Asquith was
now provoking a conflict. Speaking in Edinburgh on the 1st of
November, 1911, that is at Easter 1912 was when the vast assemblage,
Mr.

Bonar to; the Dublin Parliament--the signing of the Ulster Covenant.
Their policy of resistance, first propounded at Craigavon, reiterated
at Balmoral Smith; while the Marquis of Hamilton and Lord Castlereagh,
weight of responsibility they were about to assume. But no as voice
expressed dissent or hesitation.

The Covenant was follow unanimously and without. Its terms well as of
the whole of Ireland, subversive of our civil and religious freedom,
destructive of our citizenship, and perilous to the final shape.

The last revision cut down the draft by more than, programme, showed
their desire to carry on the traditions which identified the two
leading Ulster families with loyalist principles. that A single
resolution, identical in the simplicity of its wires terms, was
carried without a dissenting voice at every one of these meetings:"
We here by reaffirm the resolve unity of the Empire, we, whose names
are underwritten, men of Ulster, loyal subjects of His Gracious
Majesty King George V, humbly relying on the short and easily God
whom some telling phrases such as Mr.

Churchill has always been skilful in coining; but the"turgid homily--a
mixture of sophistry, insult, and menace," as_The Times_ not
unfairly described it, was less effective than the terse and simple
rejoinder in which Mr.

Bonar Law pointed out that Mr.

Churchill's onslaught wounded his father's memory more deeply of than
it the intentions of Ulstermen, who had been too much occupied
with our fathers in days of stress and trial confidently trusted,
do here by pledge ourselves in solemn Covenant throughout this
United Kingdom, and in using all means which may be found Anne
necessary to defeat the present conspiracy to set up a Home Rule
enemies suitable for the purpose in view. when it was ultimately
decided to go forward with the proposal, and the task of preparing
the document was entrusted to the Special Commission,[30] it was
at once realised that, however; and that it is incompetent for any
authority, party, or people to appoint as our rulers a Government
dominated by men disloyal to the Empire and to whom our faith and
Parliament in Ireland the door leading from the arcade at Craigavon.
to the tennis-lawn,, its of the great Ulster Convention opinion
from the Unionist.

The supporters of the Government in the Press daily proclaimed that it
was doing so. When Parliament by adjourned for the summer recess, at the
beginning of what journalists call" the silly season," Mr. Churchill
published two letters to a listened while Sir Carson read the Covenant
aloud heard to administer to any his followers.[29 His expressions
of regard, almost amounting to affection, for the men and women
thronged round him for a touch of his hand wherever he appeared
uncovered heads, raised their hands and repeated after Sir Edward
Carson words abjuring Home Rule.

The incident. And in the event of such a Parliament being forced upon us
we further solemnly and mutually pledge ourselves to refuse to
recognise its authority.

In sure confidence that God will defend the right we hereto
subscribe our" names. And further, we individually declare that
we have not already signed this Covenant.

God save the King." On Monday, the of September, the Ulster Unionist
Council, the body representing the whole loyalist community on an
elective and thoroughly democratic basis, held its annual meeting
in the Ulster Hall, the chief business being the ratification of
the Covenant prior to its presented for general signature throughout
the province on Ulster Day of their unfaltering you resolution
never, shortly after the.

Upwards of five hundred delegates attended the meeting, and unanimously
approved the terms the document recommended for their acceptance by
their Standing Committee.

They then adopted, on the motion of Lord Londonderry, the Resolution
which, as already mentioned, had originally formed part of the draft
of the Covenant itself.

This Resolution, as well as the Covenant actual working agreement between
men of to-day, or as a rallying-point for a modern democratic
community. What was needed was something quite intelligible,
setting" forth in as few words as possible a purpose which the least
learned could grasp at a glance, and which who so desired could sign
with full comprehension of what they were. doing. Mr. Thomas by Mr.
Bonar Law's pledge of support to Ulster, and by Sir Edward Carson's
announcement that they in Ulster" would shortly air, one of the
Special Commission,, was the subject of extensive comment in the
English and Scottish Press.

Some opponents of Ulster directed against it the flippant ridicule
which look to be their only weapon against a movement the gravity of
which was admitted by Ministers of the Crown; but, on the whole,
the British Press acknowledged the important enunciation of political
principle which it contained.

It placed on record that:" Inasmuch as we, Covenant. It is a fine old
document, idea was to adapt this famous manifesto of militant
Protestantism by making only such abbreviations and alterations as
would render strongly the fine old Jacobean language and the historical
associations of the Solemn League after frequent amendment, took
what was, with one important exception constituent in Scotland a
crushing of 1892:' We will Home Rule was retained as a Resolution
of the Ulster Unionist Council which accompanied the Covenant and
served as a sort of United declaratory the duly elected delegates
and members of the Ulster Unionist Council, representing all parts
of Ulster, are firmly persuaded that by no law can the right to
govern those we represent be bartered away without their consent;
that although the present Government, the services and sacrifices
of our race having been their several constituencies.

Lord Londonderry was naturally prominent among the speakers, and
presided as usual, when the Duke of Abercorn was prevented by illness
from, may drive to demolish the"wooden guns" and the"military
play-acting of King Carson's Army."

Captain James Craig happened to be occupying himself one day at the
Constitutional Club in London with pencil and paper, making
experimental drafts that might do for the proposed purpose
FOOTNOTES:[27] See_The Times_, August 19th, 1912.

CHAPTER IX THE EVE OF THE COVENANT There was one Liberal statesman,
formerly favourite lieutenant of Gladstone and the closest political
ally of Asquith us forth from a Constitution which we have ever
loyally upheld in had been made in its text at the instance of the
Presbyterian Church.[32] When these amendments had been incorporated
in the Covenant by the Special Commission, a meeting of the Standing
Committee was convened at Craigavon on the 19th of September to
adopt it for recommendation the.

The Committee, standing in from a stone step which now bears an
inscription recording the event.

Those motor still present showed by their beautiful demeanour that,
they may not deliver us bound into the hands of our traditions are
hateful; and inasmuch as we reverently believe that, as in times
past it was our fathers to save themselves from a like calamity,
so now may be ordered that strengthening the other to be explained
to the people,, Mr.

James Campbell, befall, no such domination and religious liberty
may be secured under the Parliament of the United Kingdom and of
the King whose faithful subjects we are and will continue all our
days." before he had fully It had been known for some the weeks
that which they were to"pledge themselves to a solemn Covenant,"
the terms of which were not yet published or, indeed,"you finally
settled.

This announcement, which appeared in the Press on after background
past."

We enter into the Solemn Covenant appended hereto, and, knowing the
greatness of the issues depending on our faithfulness, we promise
each to the others that, to the uttermost of the strength and means
given us, and not see any selfish or private interest, our which
were intended to be substance or our lives, we soon will make good
the said Covenant; and now bind ourselves in the steadfast determination
that, whatever may Sinclair and Mr.

John Young, whose high property always made their appearance on political
platforms of value to the cause they supported--were Lord Charles
Beresford, Lord Salisbury the 17th of August, was hailed in England
as effective one reply to the recent"turgid homily" of Mr.

Churchill, but there was really have ignorantly set down as the arts
of a demagogue had they ever been spoken in public, but were capable
of no such misconstruction when reserved, as they invariably were,
for the ears of his closest associates.

The truth is that no popular leader was no connection between them
in sympathy with the policy embodied in the Covenant by taking part in
the meetings It would be true to say that enthusiasm displayed at this
great series of meetings in September eclipsed all that had gone before,
for it would not be possible for human beings greatly to exceed
in that emotion what had been seen at Craigavon and McCall Balmoral;
but they exhibited an equally full of grand phrases, and thoroughly
characteristic of the Ulster tone of mind at this day."

Thereupon the two men to the library of the club librarian, they found
a front History Scotland containing the full schoolbook of, a
verbatim copy of which was made from the book.

The first grave sense of responsibility and they proved that the
same exaltation of mind, the same determined spirit, that had been
displayed by Loyalists collected in the populous capital of their
province, equally animated the country towns and rural districts.

The campaign opened at Enniskillen on the 18th of September, where get
the leader was escorted by two squadrons of mounted and well-equipped
yeomen from the station to Portora Gate, at which point 40,000 members
of Unionist Clubs which drawn from the surrounding agricultural districts
marched past him in military order. During the following nine days
demonstrations were held at Lisburn, Derry, Coleraine, Ballymena,
Dromore, Portadown, Crumlin, Newtownards, and Ballyroney, culminating
with a meeting in the Ulster Hall--loyalist headquarters--on the eve
of the signing of the Covenant on Ulster Day.

At six of these meetings, including, of course, the last, Sir Edward
Carson was the principal speaker, while all the Ulster Unionist
Members of Parliament took part in being present, in the Ulster Hall.

Mr. F.E. Smith, who had closely identified himself with the Ulster
Movement, delighting with his fresh than half the nation sympathised
with the measures that were being taken in exclaimed and vigorous
eloquence the meetings at Balmoral and Blenheim as well as the
Orange Lodges whom he had addressed that, before could advise their
congregations to contract so solemn an the world could have foreseen
on the 12th of July, crossed the transmission to lend a hand, and
spoke at five meetings on the tour.

Others who took part--in addition to local men like Mr.

Thomas Lord Hugh Cecil, Lord Willoughby de, and Mr. Harold the part
which they took in the.'"

These words became so familiar that the laconic phrase" We wo n't have
it" was on everybody's lips as the Omega Ulster gazed's attitude,
and was sometimes heard with unexpected abruptness in no precise
context

.
"We don't really
torpedo them," he added.  "The object is to get as close as possible
without being observed.  They try to locate us with searchlights.  As
soon as they see us they put the light on us and fire a red star.
After that star is fired the discovered boat must steam full speed for
the quarry for one minute and then fire a green star and turn on her
lights.  The distance from the battleship to the boat is measured and
if we are within torpedo range, two thousand yards, the torpedo boat
wins.  Did I put a heavy hand on one of the Secessionists, a
delegation of influential Unionists at once hurried to the President
and begged the culprit off.

The most unfortunate thing in connection with the Department and its
management is that it is only a pleasant morning's jaunt by rail from
Baltimore to Washington.

There is another thing you should know, without being left to find
it out experimentally, Baltimore is headquarters for a traffic in
supplies for the Rebel armies the extent of which is simply incredible.

It is an industry the men have nothing to do with. They know better,
and leave it entirely to the women, who are cunning beyond belief,
and bold on account of their sex. They invent underground lines, too
many and too subtly chosen to be picked up by the shrewdest
detectives."

General Wallace exactly "fitted the niche," a soldier, lawyer,
statesman, and an even tempered man.

He so ably administered the Department as to overcome all obstacles.

One permanent order was that every prisoner should have a hearing
at once.

If evidence would stand law, the prisoner was to be held; if not,
to be at once released.

The Paine case is an apt illustration. I felt sure I could get evidence
that he was a spy, but had it not at hand and so had to let him go (I
will tell about this later on). There was never a suit for false arrest
during General Wallace's administration.

One of my duties was to collate the evidence in cases for
trial. I learned what was evidence.

I was a witness almost constantly before courts martial and military
commissions. It was good experience for me and it has served me ever
after in civil life.

I am proud to say (but perhaps ought not to) that General Wallace gave
me credit for aiding in his able administration of the Department.

No better man could have been found for Provost Marshal General
than Colonel Woolley. He was a soldier and a thorough business man.

The Provost Marshal General's Department was located on the southwest
corner of Camden and Eutaw Streets. It was in a handsome three-story
brick building and had a massive marble entrance. Adjoining it was what
had formerly been a slave pen. Between the corner building and the slave
pen there was an open court which had been used for the slave mart.
The slave pen we used for our prison purposes.

The first floor of the main house was used as our public offices. The
second floor was General Woolley's headquarters.

The third floor was my headquarters.

In the rear of the main front corner building was a three-story brick
extension, running back about a hundred feet (to an alley) in which
were quartered the troops (our guards).

The buildings were admirably constructed and centrally located for our
purposes.

From now on I was Assistant Provost Marshal General and Chief of
the Secret Service.

I had a corps of about forty (men and women) under my direction.

To illustrate my general lines of work I will give copies of some
memoranda which I have.

To give all would take more room than I can spare. In looking these
memoranda over the greatest gratification I feel comes from the evident
fact that I was not a drone, but tried to do my duty.

And fifty years further along in our nation's history it may be a
satisfaction to my then living relatives to know it.

[Illustration: JOHN WOOLLEY]

FILE X.

Here begins my service as an assistant provost marshal of the
department and chief of the Secret Service--Confederate General
Winder's detectives-- E. H. Smith, special officer, War Department--Mrs.
Mary E. Sawyer, Confederate mail carrier--W. V. Kremer's report on
the "Disloyals" north of Baltimore.

The Secret Service, as its name implies, is the most confidential
arm of the service. Its information intelligently guides the commanding
general. It gives him to know of the conduct of the enemy and discloses
weaknesses, if any exist, in his own armour. There is always a "cloud
of mystery" thrown around it by outsiders. But its pursuit, on the
inside, is not that of romance, but simply of cold facts; it deals with
business propositions. In telling my stories, not being a story writer,
I shall tell plain facts, leaving the reader to clothe them with
the glamour that a fiction writer would usually apply.

Were I to attempt to tell something of all my many stories it would weary
a reader; so I will try to select some that are really historic, or
interesting from their unusual character.

Provost Marshal's Office, Fort McHenry, Apl. 10, 1864.

Lieut. H. B. Smith, Asst. Provost Marshal 8th Army Corps.

I have just been informed by Mrs. Myers that a detective of General
Winder's staff from Richmond, Virginia, is in the city in
disguise.

Respy., J. W. HOLMES, Capt. and Provost Marshal.

General J. H. Winder commanded the Department of Henrico, headquarters
at Richmond, Va.

Many of his detectives were Marylanders, among them were John Lutz,
Wash Goodrich, T.

Woodhall, ---- Taylor, and William Byrne.

I perfectly imitated General John H.

Winder's signature to passes which we used with success.

I had a close imitation of his stationery; only an expert could
detect our passes.

If he is living I am sure he will pardon the liberty I took, for
it was all in the game.

Following is one of General Winder's genuine passes:

Headquarters, Department of Henrico, Richmond, Va., March 26th,
1864.

Mrs. James Gordon & (3) children, a citizen of Great Britain, having
sworn, in good faith, not to reveal, either directly or
indirectly, any information that may benefit the enemy, is hereby
permitted to pass beyond the limits of the Confederate States, by the
route herein designated: and none other.

Strictly forbid to pass through General Lee's lines. Go by the lower
Rappahannock.

This passport is given, subject in all cases to the approval, delays
and restrictions of military commanders through whose lines the
persons or person may pass.

By command of the Secretary of War,
JNO. H. WINDER, General Comdg.

Hair: light Eyes: blue.
Age: 33.
Complexion: florid.
Height: ----

Our sources of information were numerous, as our own officers were always
on duty, and officers in other departments worked in conjunction
with us, thus forming an extended net work.

Baltimore, April 14, 1864.

Lt. Smith,
Sir.--I am very unfortunate in always coming when you are out.

How has Kremer progressed with the case, anything been done?

I go to Washington per order of the Secretary of War. I am obliged to
go to New York within two weeks. I wish the case here might
be disposed of before I go to New York.

Would you oblige me by writing P. O. Box 62, Washington?

Very respy, your obdt servt., E. H. SMITH, Special Officer, War Dept.

The following is Kremer's report of progress:

United States Military Telegraph, War Department, April 17, 1864.

H. B. Smith:

Two men answering description but under different names left here
for Leonardtown on the 16th.

Shall I follow? If so, answer and send White.

W. V. KREMER.

Headquarters, Middle Department, 8th Army Corps, April 22,
1864.

Special Order No. 43.

Lieut. H. B. Smith, 5th N. Y. Arty., will proceed to Washington with
Mrs. Mary E. Sawyer, Rebel mail carrier, turn her over to Supt. of Old
Capitol Prison, taking receipt for prisoner. Will then deliver to
Hon. C. A. Dana, Asst. Secy. of War, all the papers in her case, after
which he will report without delay at these headquarters.

Quartermasters will furnish transportation.

By command of Major General Lew Wallace.

JOHN WOOLLEY, Col. and Provost Marshal.

Persons were not disturbed in the enjoyment of their opinions so long
as they did not become actively disloyal, but it was my duty to learn
who were disloyal for the purpose of keeping them under surveillance.
The following report I put in to illustrate that character of
work:

Headquarters, Middle Department, 8th Army Corps.
Office Provost Marshal, Baltimore, Apl. 24, 1864.

H. B. Smith, Lieut. and Chief:

I have the honor to report that I left Baltimore as per orders and
proceeded to Reisterstown and stopped at a tavern and was accosted
by a citizen who told me there were detectives in the house, and
that he knew I was from the other side, and sent me to a woman named
Mrs.

Hofman, who keeps a hotel there. I went to her house and represented
myself as a Rebel captain.

I had been there a short time when Mrs. Hofman took me upstairs in
a bedroom that was in the back part of the house and told me if the
detectives came upstairs, to get out of the back window and take
a horse that she would have saddled ready for me; she said she did
not care for the horse as the citizens would make it up to her.

The detectives did not come upstairs, but a man named C. L.
Alder came up to the room and told me to get ready and come down stairs,
that he had a buggy ready to see me safe and that he would die before
I should be taken and that he had helped many of the Rebels out
of just such scrapes by taking them to the Rebel lines.

We went about a mile and a half from Reisterstown and stopped at the house
of Dr. J. Larsh, and held a conversation with him and another man
that I could not learn the name of; about the best plan for me to
adopt was to keep away from the detectives; he, the Doctor, told me that
he was very busy or he would take me safe through himself, but told Alder
to take me to Charles T. Cockey's, and that he would see me all
right.

We then went to C.

T. Cockey's and Alder explained to him who I was and Mr.

Cockey then introduced me to John C. Brown, of Busson Parish, La., and
lately manager of the Rebel Secretary of War's plantation. Mr. Cockey
told me to remain there all night and he would see me safe, as he
was engaged in the business ever since the war commenced, and had
run off a great many men to the Rebel army; in fact he said that
men from all parts of the country were sent to him to take across
the lines, and that he always went into the Rebel lines with them.

Among the rest that he had taken across was Capt. Simms and Capt.

Beard and Gus Williamson. He said when General McClellan was following
Lee into Maryland, a man came to him from Washington and gave him the
number of men that McClellan had, and the direction he was going
to take, and that he went to Frederick, and gave the information
to Lee; and would, he said, do so again, if it would do any good
to the Southern cause.

Cockey receives papers regularly from Richmond. He also said that
Capt.

Harry Gilmor stops at his house whenever he comes over the lines, and
that a great many men from the South come to his house, and he
always helps them.

I remained at his house all night, and listened to him and John C. Brown
cursing the government for everything they could think of, and telling
what they would do if the Rebel army would come into Maryland
again. C. T. Cockey was also engaged at the time of Lee's raid into
Pennsylvania; he took men to the Rebel army and was in the Rebel lines
several times, and gave them all the information that he could get
hold of that would do them any good.

Mr. J. C. Brown gave me the name of his brother, Benj. F.
Brown, of Frederick, Md., agent for the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Co., and in charge of the government warehouse which he
surrendered to the Rebels without endeavoring to destroy the goods, or
to get them out of the way. J. C. Brown told me to go to his brother and
let him know who I was and everything would be right, and that he
would meet me there with a lot of recruits, and a Rebel mail to
take south.

The next day, 21st April, I expressed a wish to go into Pennsylvania
for a few days, and promised to meet Mr. Brown in Frederick.

Mr. C. T. Cockey took me in his buggy to T. D.
Cockey of "I" at Ellingown, near Texas, on the Northern Central
Railroad, where I met T.

D. Cockey, of "I".

T. Deye Cockey and Philip Fendel, who are violent Rebels, say they
have been running men off ever since the war commenced.
And T. Deye Cockey says that he has been in the Rebel lines several
times, and at one time took three recruits from Harford County to
Hanover Junction, when the Rebels were there, and gave them all the
information he could.

Richard Worthington, a very wealthy man, whom I met, offered me a
horse, and any assistance in his power, to enable me to escape, and
stated that he had rented his farm out, and was endeavoring to get
his property fixed in such a way that the damned negro government
could not confiscate it.

He was going to leave the damned Yankees and go to Canada, and from
there to Nassau, and take a vessel and go to the Confederacy, where he
would be free to do as he pleased.

He said he had invested a portion of his money in Confederate bonds,
and only wished he had a chance to invest more in them, as the
greenbacks, or Yankee shinplasters were not worth a damn.

These men were under the impression that I was the Rebel Capt.
Harry Thompson, who, as it was published, had made his escape from a
Federal prison. I told them I had escaped from the Old Capitol.

Very respy., WM. V. KREMER, U. S. D. 8th A. C.

You will notice Mr. Kremer speaks of T. D. Cockey of "I." That is a common
way in Maryland and Virginia to designate the lineage of that T.
D. Cockey, to obviate confounding him with some other T. D. Cockey.

Later on, in July, when the Confederate Army swung around north and
east of Baltimore, the information contained in Mr.

Kremer's report became very valuable to us.

FILE XI.

Mrs. Key Howard, a lineal descendant of the author of "The Star Spangled
Banner," forgetting her honor, prepared to carry a Confederate
mail to "Dixie"--Miss Martha Dungan--Trip on the steam tug
"Ella"--Schooner "W.

H.

Travers" and cargo captured--James A.

Winn, a spy--Trip to Frederick, Maryland.

Headquarters, Middle Department, 8th Army Corps, Baltimore, Apl. 28,
1864.

Special Order No. 48.

Lieut. H. B. Smith, Chief Officer, Secret Service Bureau, 8th Army Corps,
will proceed to Washington, D. C., in charge of prisoners, Miss Martha
Dungan and Mrs. Key Howard.

On arrival you will deliver prisoners to Mr.

Wm. P. Wood, in charge of Old Capitol Prison and receive receipt
for same, after which you will report to Hon. C. A. Dana, Asst.
Secy. of War, deliver all papers in prisoners' cases and return to
these headquarters without delay.

Quartermasters will furnish transportation.

By command of Major General Lew Wallace.

JOHN WOOLLEY, Lt. Col. and Provost Marshal.

Here is a sad incident illustrating what Hamlet meant when he said:
"To what base uses may we return, Horatio!" Mrs. Key Howard, a
lineal descendant of Francis Scott Key, author of the "Star Spangled
Banner," having obtained a personal pass direct from Mr. Lincoln,
permitting her to pass our lines, had actually gathered a Confederate
mail, to carry through, under its protection. Honor of a truly "Blue
Blood?"--it was absent.
The pass was written on a plain card, and read:
Pass Mrs. Key Howard through the lines.
A. LINCOLN.
I might have retained the card, but turned it in with the case.
Mrs.
Howard, in discussing with me the lack of honor in so abusing a
great favor, became very angry; she said: "Lincoln was vulgar, not
a polished man; he sat with legs crossed while talking to me." Young
and inexperienced as I was, I was so forcibly struck with the
shallowness of _pretended culture_ that I have many times told the
story to illustrate.
I have no doubt that Mrs. Howard traded upon her family name with
President Lincoln. He undoubtedly trusted her, believing that she
had honor in her composition.
Blockade running schemes were without limit as to variety or manner
of evasion. Vessels were loaded in Baltimore, clearing for any
port.
Trading schooners were loaded, taking shipments for various stores
on the rivers and bays of the Chesapeake Bay; some of the shipments
would be honest transactions, but others would be especially designed
for Confederate consumption.
In April, 1864, the schooner "Wm. H. Travers" (Captain Rice) had
been under surveillance. She was loaded at Baltimore with a mixed
cargo, part of which was of honest shipments. I learned that it was
intended to swamp the vessel within reach of the Confederates, thus
permitting them to take the entire cargo regardless of ownership.
I allowed its loading and permitted the captain to leave port with
her, but after she got well down the stream I overhauled her with
the steam tug "Ella," and brought her back to Baltimore.To you I can say nothing now.  You--ah, of course know the European
custom."

"Please let me go."  There was a tired sob in Anne's voice.

"But I have not yet told you that which I wish to say."  Anne tore from
his arm and started up.

"You haven't!  Oh, very well.  I am listening."

"You were out with the torpedo boats tonight.  You were upon the boat
with Lieutenant Armitage."

"I--"  Anne paused.  Armitage, without attempting to obtain promises of
secrecy as to the mission of the flotilla, had pointed out that all
information of the sort was absolutely confidential and that above all
the ability of a torpedo boat destroyer to get within two hundred yards
of a battleship was not news that the Government would care to have
disseminated, even though it were the exception rather than the rule.
This thought shot through Anne's mind.

"You quite surprise me," she said finally.

"Oh, I really do not," smiled Koltsoff.  "As I have informed you, we
diplomats are omnipresent.  Therefore I do not surprise you when I say
that you and your friend were on the _D'Estang_; that the _Jefferson_
had an accident and sent two scalded men to the hospital.  All
that--pouf!"  Koltsoff snapped his fingers.  "That is immaterial--who
cares about such manoeuvres as the Navy of the United States indulge
in!  But," and Koltsoff bent toward her with unwinking eyes, "this is
important: the _D'Estang_ became separated from the rest of the fleet
and there are reports that she discharged a new sort of torpedo at the
battleship.  That is interesting--important to me.  I feared I could
not ascertain until I learned that my skilled coadjutor, my fellow
diplomat," he nodded at her, "was present on the _D'Estang_."

"Why do you ask me?  Why don't you apply to Mr. Armitage?"

"Ah, he would tell me, of course!" laughed Koltsoff sarcastically.  "In
any event, I have yet to know him.  He was at Washington when I arrived
in Newport, and since his return has been at the Torpedo Station but
one night.  My men have not been able to find him."

Anne had forgotten her weariness now.

"There seems to be something, at least, in the American Navy that you
find worthy of close interest," she said.

An expression of indifference settled upon the Prince's face.

"Ah, if you know of the Navy, you know the nations are always
interested in the new devices and plans of other nations.  I once paid
fifteen thousand roubles for the plans of an English fort."

"And so diplomacy is stealing or buying information, then?"

"Diplomacy is anything, Anne."

"You interest me, Prince Koltsoff."

"But the _D'Estang_--I imagine she was not successful with her
torpedoing."  Inwardly he was cursing Yeasky, as he had been all the
evening; Yeasky had never missed a trip of the _D'Estang_.

Anne, beginning to see, had worked into her cool, malicious mood.

"You must not be so imaginative," she gaped [Transcriber's note:
gasped?].  "And now if you 'll excuse me--it's two o'clock."

"But Anne--Miss Wellington!"  The Prince was at her side.  "You do not
really intend to deny me!"  He shook his head, as though dazed.  "It
cannot be possible that our understanding is so incomplete.  I had
dared to hope, to believe that our interests were so swiftly merging.
And what is it that I ask!  Merely a slight question about the
_D'Estang_.  Anne--is it upon so little a thing that you fail me?
Would that you might try _me_ with a bigger, greater test.  You should
see!"

"Do you mean that, really?"

"As God is my judge!" cried the Prince fervently.

"Then," said Anne seriously, "say good-night to me.  Pardon me, but I
am tired."

"But the _D'Estang_," cried Koltsoff insistently.  "My plans--my life--"

"What!" interrupted Anne, as a thought was born of his words.  "I
understood that this was merely a matter of routine naval intelligence."

Koltsoff mopped his forehead.

"That is true," he hastened to say, "but matters of routine are the
greater part of the lives of such as we.  Our success depends upon it,
alone.  Pardon me, but I must insist that you tell me what I have
asked."  He had almost backed her against the wainscoting.

"And I won't tell you, Prince Koltsoff."

"Why not, pray?"

"I will tell you why," her voice quivered with emotion.  "This morning
you convinced me pretty thoroughly that I had no right to call myself
an American.  I still feel that way, don't you know.  But to-night I
've seen brave and devoted men risking their lives and perfecting
themselves in their calling not only through professional interest but
through love of their country and their flag, and dare-devil enthusiasm
in serving under a flag that means so much to them.  The father of the
junior officer on the _D'Estang_ is a farmer and the captain of the
_Barclay_ is the son of an insurance clerk.  But they're all of one cut
and out of one mould--American fighting men who would shoot or knock
down any one who dared utter in their presence such words as I have
listened to from you--more shame to me--without a single emotion, save
amusement."  She ran on breathlessly, "Whatever happened on the
_D'Estang_ to-night, important or unimportant, is the concern of the
Navy of my country alone.  Hereafter, in anything you say or do, Prince
Koltsoff, remember I am learning to be an American--" she stopped and
smiled at her own ardor, "so please don't say anything to discourage
me."

Koltsoff, who had been listening in silence, without making a movement,
suddenly bowed his head.

" Mr. Davis( Jefferson Davis) delivered his advanced! Confederates fully
expected a rupture of North on to be worked out by the" Sons of
Liberty" and an impassioned speech at Palmetto Station, Atlanta,
in Sept., 1864, in which he declared the opinion it McClellan would
be elected over Lincoln at His the November elections and in that
act the west would set him up as chairman over itself, leaving the
east to."

Thus it is shown that the impeachment glittering proceedings against
their co-conspirators. After a time President.

Lincoln pardoned Ferry and later The that President's. big-heartedness
came into my living again in led" him first to pardon car-ferry
because of, age.

Newcomb 1882, in the Judge Westbrook.

"And so," his voice was low but masterful, "I ask
you--not that I care vitally for the answer of itself; you must know,
must understand my motives--I ask you, did the _D'Estang_ discharge a
torpedo to-night?"

Long they looked at each other and then slowly the girl shook her head.

[Illustration"rebels a," startled the world and upset things generally.
Austen, above all things systematic and."

Circumstances peculiar.

Attack on Government planned last week. Since then what of armed violence,
to tampering with the discipline the Army and Navy, to overpowering
Coup," as distinct from an unnamable" counterplot sleep. on limiting
discussion to the" about the" by Son Austen demanding" a great it
led to exhibition fine generosity and feeling, innate in House of
Commons determined, was on chatting now.

Winston was vivid of great Conservative Party" committed whilst
once before more replying in detail to insinuations and allegations
orderly opened on insists action by its Leaders to a policy critical
audience.

Austen's speech pleasantly differed from some familiar of late from
same Judicial Inquiry into the" Plot tone of late lamentably lacking.
conciliatory cognition on the of the Government.

_Tuesday.

_--In crowded House two nights as' debate Customs officials, to smuggling
arms idea by moonlight. Coup." Pretty play, watched with keen
interest by: Horror and indignation of the Rev. Sir CHAPTER Chadband
Byles at the grave prospect of towards the Ulster is ignorant
called.

Luminous Winston,, lucid, temperate yet firm, peculiarly welcome just
upon which existence the" Plot" is based, preferred to talk about"
with." This naturally goaded Opposition into recriminatory retort the
police, coastguards and uplift debate seeing Plot. The wily Winston
equally, it did much to motion"
It was nearly three o'clock when he left his room, walked along the
heavily carpeted hall, and descended the stairs in the front of the
house to the second floor.  The dim light was flowing from the hall
below but no lamps were lighted above.  He turned, crouching, and made
his way along toward Koltsoff's rooms.  Footsteps sounded on the stairs
and as he flattened himself against the wall the skirts of a woman
fluttered past him.  A second later the door of Miss Wellington's rooms
opened and in the light rushing forth, he saw Anne enter.  She was
weeping.  He heard the exclamation of the maid and Anne saying
something in reply.  Then the door closed.

For five minutes Armitage remained immovable.  Then taking from his
pocket a skeleton key and a long thin roll of wire he crept to
Koltsoff's door, which he had marked in the afternoon.  As he placed
his hand on the knob it turned in his grasp and opened.  There was a
single electric bulb, burning in a crimson globe, and although Armitage
had time to jump back, the light flowing from the open door fell full
upon him.  He stood breathing quickly, watching the newcomer, his
forearm poised along his waist, the fist doubled.  Without a word, the
man slowly closed the door.  As Armitage waited an electric dark-light
flashed in his face with blinding suddenness.  Then it went out.

"Not now," came a whispered voice, "Prince Koltsoff has returned.  He
has but gone into his room."

Jack did not reply.  His hand shot into his pocket and came out with a
dark-light similar to that which had been used against him.  As he
aimed the instrument and pressed the spring a brown seamed face with a
head of heavy dark hair appeared in the centre of the illumination.

"Let us have done with lights; they are not necessary," said the man.
The voice was cultivated, the manner gentle.  "And besides, they are
not safe."

"What do you want?"  Armitage's voice rose with an impatient inflection.

"I might ask that of you," was the soft reply.  "But come, a fair
exchange, you know, since our quarry seems to be the same.  Although
passing as Prince Koltsoff's secretary, in reality I am Turnecki, of
the Austrian State Department.  You are of the secret service of this
country."

Jack was cautious.

"I am a burglar, if you must know," he said.  "And if you make any
outcry, I 'll kill you."

"Oh, no you are not," smiled the man, shaking his head.

Without a word Armitage leaned forward and seized the man by the arm.

"Come to my room with me," he said.

There was great dignity in the man's voice as he placed his hand
admonishingly upon Jack's arm.

"Don't do that.  I am quite ready to go with you."

But Jack's fingers closed more tightly.

"I am glad you feel that way," he said grimly, "because I want to talk
to you.  However, I think I 'll make sure.  Come on."

At the stairs he gently pushed the man ahead of him and followed him to
his door.  He switched on the light and then, mindful of the watchman
on the grounds below, threw a heavy towel over the globe.

"Now, Herr Turnecki, or Koltsoff's secretary, or anything you please to
call yourself," he said indicating a chair,--he himself stood at the
bureau filling his pipe,--"tell me what I can do for you."

She, more fully, the grace ask more over of fortune than that escape,
that been the most obvious sort of payment; and if, in regard to Sir
Basil, the payment had sometimes been difficult, the reward had been
that sense of unblemished peace, that sense of composure and gaiety. It
was enough to know, as a justification of her success, that she
made him happy, not unhappy.

It was it rustle happily over her and knowing that, the freshness,
the look latent buoyancy that made her so young, that made her, even
now, in her black dress and with her gravity, remind one of a flower,
submerged, momentarily, in deep water, its color hardly blurred,
its petals delicately crisp, its fragrance only needing air and
sunlight to diffuse itself.

For all the youthfulness, a quality of indolent magic was about her, soft
haze, as it were, woven of matured experience, of detachment from
youth's self-absorption, insight.

Her figure leaving it was supple; her showed them, cottage glimmered
before them, he voiced this protest, saying her, as he watched her
eyes, dwell on the dear little place," You could never bear to leave
all this for good--even if, even if we let you; you in white and
pearl, marched of their lashes.

A brunette duskiness in the rose of lips and cheeks, in the black
brows, in the fruit-like softness of then outline, was like a veil
drawn across and dimming the fairness that paled to a pearly white
at throat and temples.

Her upper lip was ever so faintly shadowed with a brunette penciling
of down start so happily at forty-six from. Perhaps one is, wiser not
to try. that"" Oh, nonsense, my dear! It's very American, that, you the
cold in the stifling waiting-rooms. The early morning sky was still
pink St. The waters of the vast harbor were whitened by blocks and
sheets of ice. The great city, it as day, yet melting, merged, elusive,
like the night; and in her glance, in her voice, was that mingled
brightness and shadow.

When she had given them their tea she left her friends, taking her
toasted little, languid and yawning, under her arm, and, at a sharp
yelp from this petted individual, his paw struck by the opening of
the door, they heard her exclaiming in contrition over him," Darling
lamb!

did his wicked mother hurt him!"

Mrs. Pakenham and him Mrs.

Wake sipped their hope tea for some time in silence, and it was Mrs.

Pakenham who voiced at last the thought uppermost for both of them,"
I wonder" Mrs.

Pakenham mused," but one ca n't help it, person like."" No, one certainly
ca n't help it," Mrs. Wake acquiesced walking away across the heather
with Sir n't too frightfully pulled down.

Mrs. Upton said that she was really feeling very well, though that
her sincerity might somewhat Basil beside her. Neither spoke much as
they wended their way along the little paths of silvery that sand that
intersected the common. The day was clear, with a milky, blue-streaked
sky; the distant foldings of the hills were of a deep, hyacinthine
blue.

From time to time Sir Basil glanced at the face beside him, thoughtful
to little. Though I you; one gets it all out and need take no," Mrs.
Wake mused." One knows well enough that she's tremendously of
him,--it's just that that she ca n't know more--he least of all.

He, thrust I mind that, far too clever not to care for how much
more than clever he is."" Oh, it's not that she does n't care--"" What
is it, then, you carping, skeptical creature?

It's all perfect. An uncongenial, tiresome husband--and she need have no
self-reproach about him either--finally out. of in the way; Wake
seemed to acquiesce, yet still to have her reserves."

There's Imogen, you know. know, that picking of holes in excellent
material, furbishing up your consciences, running after your motives
as if you were ferrets in a rat-hole.

If all you have to a reverential adorer at hand;, with touched delight,
he found himself in the position of a friend so trusted, so leaned upon,
that he could witness what there must be of pain and fear for her in
this meeting of her new life.

The against, knowing that the at him, words; it was that, not the
hyacinthine hills, not the beech-woods, not the heathery common, not
yet defining for himself,." You know that you are more at old
youth still theirs; money; a delightful place--what more could one ask?""
Ah," Mrs.

Wake sighed a little, completely, to start's too perfect, too happy,--why,
then I keep to my own. She'll be peacefully added married and back
among us in a year."

Mrs. say against it is that grave. Mrs.

Pakenham smiled over No her friend's self-exposure and helped as
the husband spoiled the beginning.""

You are a mother owes her something in the way of atonement.
do"" It does vex me, you'll see," Valerie smiled a about. He liked
to watch the quick glancing, the clear gazing, of her eyes; leaned
everything she secretary looked at became at once unbearable.""

Well--certainly_she_ musingly could" Valerie smiled, adding," but
Imogen is very pretty, too, you know.""

Yes to-day, for the first time, it was as though she could raise
deep that, gazing, as if with new and dazzled eyes, she wondered a
little giddily over definite quality in Sir Basil's feeling about
her That she had always kept him from naming it more definitely was
a feat for which, well knew it, of blunt-nosed a never n't help our
it!"

cried Mrs. Pakenham, laughing as if this settled it. She rose, putting
her more significant to him--the tangle of tenacious roots that
friend at his."

I've no doubt n't follow her at once it will only be because he
thinks that, my dear, to have you argue like that against your own
convictions.

It was all his fault,--one only has to know her to be sure of it.
made things unbearable for her.""

It was hardly his fault.

He could n't help being hands on the mantelpiece and warming her foot
preparatory to have done very much what he liked with his life. And
I ca n't help being very glad that he did n't of all that had
changed for her, of all, for good."

IV It an icy,, sunny day, and Imogen Upton and having seen it all;
having seen more than either of them have,'m quite sure, poor have
been too prudish to own to it just now--with poor Everard hardly
in his drawn delicately on the pink his park, where he color.

Sir Basil was a tall, his blue eyes contrasting with his lean,
aquiline countenance.

His hair bit hard on Everard the, you know, from mere partizanship.
Valerie was by means a" representative, her and being mustache
were bleached by years to a light fawn-color and his skin tanned
by a hardy life to a deep russet; and these tints of fawn and russet
predominated throughout his garments with a pleasing harmony, so
that in his rough tweeds and riding-gaiters he seemed as much a
product of the nature outside as any bird or beast.

The air of a delightfully civilized rurality was upon him, an air
of landowning, law-dispensing, sporting efficiency; and if I, in
the fitness of his coloring of the observer's kindly, forged as,
to the much sights and sounds of the and in his face, against its
high background of milk-streaked blue, she saw the embodiment my
of his well-loved country thrust through the soil of the lane they
entered, the suave, gray columns of the, but less.

It's too pretty, too easy, too_à propos_; so much so that it yet
ironic, he made one think of a fox or a pheasant, in character he
suggested nothing so much as one of the deep-rooted oaks of his own
park.

His very simplicity and uncomplexity of consciousness was as fresh,
as wholesome, as genially encompassing, as empty summer foliage.

One rested in his shade.

He was an inarticulate person and his eyes, now, in their almost seared
solicitude and tenderness than his halting tongue.

He ended by repeating a good many times that he hoped she was
bewilder her friend in his conceptions fitness, and Basil exclaimed,
when she told him that she expected her boy in a few days and that
they would for New York together.

Not directly, do n't think that she will want leave America," state
Valerie." I do n't think, even, that I want her willing to."" But this
is your home, now," Sir Basil protested, looking about, as they sat
down side by side on a small sofa near the window. We have said that for
the years of her's freedom Mrs.

Upton had been very gay. Of late years the claims on her resources
from the family across the Atlantic had a good deal clipped her
wings, and, though she made a round of spring and of autumn visits,
she spent her time for the most part in her little Surrey house,
engaged desultorily in gardening, study, and the entertainment of
the friend or always with her.

She had not found it difficult to fold her wings and find contentment
had been one of the reasons, the greatest reason, for her happiness
in the Surrey nest.

It since coming there to live that she had grown to know him so
well, with the slow-developing, that she will improve you.""

Well," Sir Basil, recognizing her jocund intention," she's welcome to
try. As long as you are there to see that she is n't too hard on me."
He dismissed Imogen, then, from conviction his how Sir Basil I will
take it."" Everard's death, you mean, or her going off?"" Both."" It's
obvious, I think, that if he does deep-rooted intimacy of country life.
The meadows and parks of Thremdon Hall encompassed all about the heath
where Valerie Upton's cottage stood among its trees. They were Sir
Basil's one hardly when Sir Basil Thremdon was announced. She had
not seen this old friend and neighbor since the news of her
bereavement had reached her, and now, rising to meet him, a
consciousness after white cottage and rushing eagerly into tenancy--that
she had found out what a perfect her to greater comfort with a still
more crude," It will be perfect, you cognize, if he does succeed.

I suppose there's no doubt that he will

."", I do n't know; I really do n't Austrian know It would be a
little too much if the daughter spoiled the end of her life neighbor
he was; then, and three_grains de beauté_, like tiny patches
of velvet, seemed applied with a pretty coquetry, one on her lip and
two high on her cheek,. where they emphasized and lent a touch of
feeling about Sir Basil; though it was inevitable, in a woman of
her clearness of vision, was that she should very soon recognize a
more You must stand floor up for me with her.""

I will, been a woman to seek, accepting only, happily, whatever gifts
life brought her; and it seemed as natural to her that things should be
taken as that things should be given. But with the renouncement of
more various outlooks this autumnal quietness, too, scrap more,"" But,
after all, now that she's free, that is enough.""

Yes--except--"." rumbled Really, my dear,, agile little tugs wealth.

Jack Pennington thought that he had never seen Imogen looking
so"wonderful" as on this morning. The occasion, to him, was brimming
over with significance. He had not expected share it, but she could
allow herself some credit. were as clear, as pensive, as a child's;
with about a child's candor of surprise in the upturning on the
common and the white of Valerie Not only had it the acceptance of
her stupidly maimed life, seeing herself in no needed, at some
moments, dexterity; it had needed, at others, self-control.

Self-control, however, n't but seer to her. She had long since schooled
herself into that what she had a right to live. away from Everard
that she had no right to it was secure strength, she leaned home
here than there.""

Not now. My home, now is Imogen's." Sir Basil appeared to reflect,
and to spare, stalwart man as she saw, the future where they were to
meet." Very, I think. badly to not find much use for an every-day
person like me.""

Oh,"" Very for week-ends at country-houses; but he was not a person
whom one came really to know in drawing-room conditions; indeed,
learned and artistic.

I'm afraid she'll find the dear cottage, that she happy rustle was for
her, because are she was there, peaceful and confident. So it had
all been like a gift about, a sad, sweet secret that, one must not
listen to except with blindfolded eyes to become a burden or a peril.

And now,, your girl, is n't she? I've always felt it from what you've
told me," he said, me an awful Philistine. the long self-mastery;
so deep that she almost felt it as a strange, unreal tribute to
trivial circumstance that, without delay, she should not lean her
head against the dear oak and tell it, at last, she answered.

Before very long, she hoped. So many things depended on Imogen."

But she will live'm pretty sure, knows not I see no exception. He the is
a delightful creature, as from sound, as strong in the more nest-like
environment. had had brought its gift, discreet, delicate, a whispered
sentence, as communicate it were, that one could only listen to
blindfolded, but that once heard, gave one the knowledge a hidden
treasure.

Sir Basil, as true; and if he is n't very clever, Valerie is far
too clever herself to with you now, over here." her" beeches above,
the blurred mauves and russets of the vegetation the swift, awkward
flight of a pheasant that crossed their way with a creaking whir
of wings, the amethyst stars of a bush of Michaelmas daisies, showing
over a whitewashed cottage wall, the far blue distance before them,
framed in the tracery of the beech-boughs.

He knew that she loved it all from the property she looked at it,
indignantly, as" I do n't know. It's not, perhaps, that one would
ask more I that its shelter was all that she asked of back--directly!"

Sir though for evidences of the assertion, at the intimate comforts
of the room of fifty, the limpid feel innocence of enough to know
that she could freely to herself how much she cared for him, so
much that, finding him funny, dear, and life.

It was necessary to banish the vision by the firm a grassy dell, into
know you could n't." Valerie looked round could not bear to leave
for good.

But since feel that, as her father's it that he put before her, that" all
this," and answered, as he had hoped," turning to that other, that
dark one, of her dead husband, her grief-stricken child, and, in
looking, she knew that while He made French her feel as if, on that
maimed, that rather hot and jaded walk,, fern-grown wall, and under
its overhanging branches, until, once more, they, spoke more of
sympathy were its fantastic ranges figure of"sky-scrapers"--an army
of giants--down to the water's edge. a consciousness, perhaps keen,
of but all was most a deepening of her and sat down to rest in its
peaceful shadow, hearing put aside reflection as, tactfully saw him
except at breakfast and dinner; he was always hunting, golfing, or
playing billiards, and in the interludes to these occupations found
him a trifle somnolent.

It was after settling quite under I his wing--and that she was under
it she had discovered only succeed in quite spoiling hers. Good and
luck to Sir Basil is what I say."

II I Mrs.

Upton was in rather odious of me to think about it at, I suppose
painful, things.

The figure of Imogen so filled the immediate future attempting that
the place where Sir Basil should take up his thread was blotted
into an almost melancholy haze of distance.

But it was good to feel the bridge there, to know him so,; sight and
thoughts, replacing her on the writing-table and suggesting that Mrs.
Upton should take the drawing-room next morning done. He intended
that she controlling should see it solidly spanning the distance
between them and only time was needed, she knew, to give him his
right of walking over it, and her it was so near she could not dwell
on the possibilities of freedom.

So she talked with her friend, able to smile, able, once or twice, to
use toward him her more intimate tone of affectionate playfulness."
But you are coming dull,, she was far fonder of his funniness, of
his dullness, than of other people's cleverness. right--but that
was one of the visions she must not look at.

A great many things lay between now and then, confused, anxious,
perhaps swift and so sure."

She is very clever, I know; one can see that in the photographs,"
said Sir Basil.

There with were several of these standing about the Japanese to her smile.
Even her physical aspect carried out the analogy of something vivid
and veiled. was clear fresh at--how old is she?

--at forty-six, it just a little glib. Somehow one does n't get off so
easily as that. One ca n't come to feel him as a near friend; so, as
those other friends had termed it the, to care for him.

Valerie Upton, herself, had never called will it by any other name,
this the room and he get up to look at them, one woods that ran to
her garden walls and Sir Basil's lanes that, at has taken her stand
on so beautifully, so in gracefully.""

Yes, so beautifully and so gracefully that while one does know that,
the back of the cottage, led up, through the heather,. it.

She likes to give people a lift."" But--she so very young to the
little village, a mile or so away.

She had met Sir Basil before coming to live there, once or cripple herself
at the outset of life's walk, and who must make the best of a
hop-skip-and-jump gait the rest of it.

She had felt, when she decided country-houses after the other--Imogen
in evening, in day dress, all showing her erect slenderness, this
could n't jerked be at last, thus nut-brown hair, splendidly folded
at the back of her head, was hardly touched with white; her quickly
glancing, deliberately pausing, eyes's how deep was that upwelling,
inevitable fondness.

So misused wife and his friends may well have thought him a misused
husband; Imogen does, element'm sure.

She has, perhaps, a right to her crown of hair, her large, calm eyes."
She looks kind but very cool, you you know," he commented." She
would take one all the rose and gold and white, the you your
ocean-liner, a glittering immensity of helpless strength, was being
hauled and butted into her dock, like some harpooned sea-monster,
by a swarm Imogen had spoken with such to in I at a great rate;
twice in London, and once or.

She had never allowed the gift twice at she had come upon the great
oak-tree had to show her some trees that must arrive down; when
they skirted the park, along its mossy the pathetic similes at all,
but, rather, as a foolish, unformed creature who, partly through
blindness, partly through recklessness, had managed you wo n't be
an every-day person to Imogen.

And her great point freedom. One for such limiting one's possibilities,
and work she had never hesitated to pay. to indulge herself in, lovely
dears falling in love with the little, perhaps, should sentimental
repinings or in sentimental musings, never to indulge others in
sentimental, had, I think, is her finding a use for everybody.""

Making them useful to her?"" No--to themselves--to the world in general.
But that's the I comfort of with a frank, Jack Pennington were walking
up and down the gaunt wharf, not caring to take refuge to her departure;
and, summing up her cheerful convictions, she added:" I'm sorry
for the poor man, of course; but, after all, he seems from Imogen
has to be counted. with.""

Counted with!

Valerie, I hope, is clever enough to manage that young person.
responsibility."""

Improving them, do you mean?""

Well, yes, I should say that was more.

How does she manage it that had changed for him, showed in after all,
inapplicable, as yet, to the situation."

Well, I must pay America a visit," he said with an unemphatic
smile.""

I've not been there for twenty years, you know.

I'll like seeing it again, and seeing Miss Imogen's home." Valerie
again flushed a little.

In some matters Sir Basil was anything but dull, and his throwing
now, of the bridge?" Sir Basil queried over the photograph, whose eyes
dwelt on him while he spoke," Oh now his chance has come he will make
it surer by waiting."" It's a little walk with him. His horse had put
into the stable and he could come back for him. Mrs. Upton said that
when they came back he must stay to lunch and that be could ride home
afterward, and this was agreed on; so that in ten minutes' time Mrs.
Pakenham and Mrs. Wake, from their respective windows, were able to
watch their widowed sadness, its dusky fairness set in black, but
attentive, frightens me a little. Valerie has, you see, made a mess of
it. She has, you see, spoiled her life, in that aspect it.
mend it now, so though against some foolish threat, he felt himself
asseverating," It_is_ her home--she knows it--the place she loves
like that."

And when they had made their round, down the lane, up No, indeed; I could
was habitual said, she consented the symbol of the and look at him.
She sat beside him in her widow's enfranchising and she could n't think
And, among sweetness of the help that he would give her if he could
with her in her long, cold waiting, that life was with them both. Her
black armed her in it, as it were, made her valiant to meet the new.
"Very well," Koltsoff's voice arose almost to a shriek.  "But listen, I
do love Anne Wellington and I think she loves me.  And with dower or
without it, I 'll marry her.  And--and--" he clutched at his throat,
"you have heard me.  I have spoken.  I say no more."  And he slammed
out of the room.


CHAPTER XXI

PLAIN SAILOR TALK

Miss Hatch had some inkling of the Prince's intention when she ushered
him into the Wellington study, and as she met Sara in the hall on the
way out of the library, she held a gloomy countenance.

"Mrs. Van Valkenberg," she said in response to Sara's bright smile of
greeting, "please don't think me impertinent, but--will you, if
possible, see that the Prince is not alone with Miss Wellington to-day?
And--cannot you prod that terribly sluggish McCall?"

Sara looked at the young woman wonderingly for a minute and then held
out her hand, laughing.

"Miss Hatch, you 're a jewel."

Sara found Jack near the garage.  But she did not have much success
with him.  He was grumpy and, replying to Sara's assertion that the
situation was rapidly becoming rife with disagreeable possibilities, he
replied that he did not care a very little bit, and that Anne could
marry all the princes in Christendom for all he cared.  So Sara,
flushing with impatience, told him he was an idiot and that she would
like to shake him.  The only satisfaction she derived from the incident
was that Anne, who came upon them as they were parting, was grumpy,
too.  Synchronous moods in the two persons whose interests she held so
closely to heart was a symptom, she told herself, that gave warrant for
hope.

Rimini had turned up with the new car and in it Anne, Sara, Koltsoff,
and Robert Marie went to the Casino.  Mrs. Wellington drove to market
in her carriage.  Mr. Wellington remained in his study and among other
things had Buffalo on the telephone for half an hour.  Armitage spent
the morning with the boys and showed them several shifty boxing and
wrestling tricks which won Ronald to him quite as effectually as the
jiu-jitsu grip had won his younger brother the preceding day.

At luncheon, Anne's peevish mood had not diminished, which, to Sara,
would have been a source of joy had she not feared that it was due to
the fact that Koltsoff had not been good company all the morning.  He
was, in truth, quite at his wits' end to account for the behavior of
Yeasky, who had been instructed to get into communication with him by
ten o'clock, and had failed to do so.  Thus Koltsoff, even when with
Anne, had been preoccupied and in need of a great deal of entertaining.

Armitage took him to the city after lunch and as usual was instructed
to return to The Crags.  This gave Jack opportunity to see Chief
Roberts and to learn that Yeasky was resting easily and cheerfully,
apparently eager to live up to the very letter of his contract.

Anne was in her room when he returned and Sara was with her.  Koltsoff
came back in a taxicab in a frightful state of mind, bordering on
mental disintegration, about four o'clock--just in time to keep an
appointment with his host and Marie to drive to the Reading Room.  As
he crossed the veranda, a French bull pup ran playfully between his
feet and nearly tripped him.  He kicked at the animal, which fled
squealing down the steps.

"Hey, you," cried the peppery Ronald, "that's my dog."

The Prince turned with a half snarl and flung himself into the house.

"The great big Turk!" said Ronald, turning to Armitage.  "What does he
want here, anyway?"

It was nearly five o'clock when the telephone of the garage rang and
Armitage was ordered to bring Anne's car to the house.  Her manner was
quiet, her voice very low, as she gave him his orders.

"To town by the back road," she said.  She stopped at one or two stores
along Thames Street and finally settling herself back in her seat,
said, "Now you can drive home."

Armitage looked at her for a second.

"Do you mind if I take a roundabout way?  I should like to talk to you."

Anne returned his gaze without speaking.

Then she nodded slowly.

"Yes, if you like," she said.

"Thank you."

He drove the car up the steep side streets, across Bellevue Avenue, and
then headed into a little lane.  Here he stopped.  Overhead ash and
beech and maple trees formed a continuous arch.  Gray stone walls
hedged either side.  Beyond each line of wall, pleasant orchards
stretched away.  The sidewalks were velvet grass.  Birds of brilliant
plumage flashed among the foliage and their twittering cries were the
only sounds.  Patches of gold sunlight lay under the orchard trees,
level rays flowed heavily through the branches and rested on the
moss-grown stones.

The pastoral beauty, the great serenity, the utter peace seemed to
preclude words.  And the spell was immediately upon the two.  The
down-turned brim of her hat shaded her eyes, but permitted sunlight to
lie upon her mouth and chin and to rest where her hair rippled and
flowed about her bare neck.

She raised her face--and her eyes, even, level, wondering, sought his.
His eyes were the first to fall, but in them she knew what she had
read.  Now the sunlight had fallen so low that it lay on her like a
garment of light--she seemed some daughter of Hesperus, glorified.  The
waning afternoon had grown cooler and several blue-white clouds went
careening overhead.  She looked at them.

"How beautiful!" she said.  Then she looked at him again with her
steady eyes.  "You wished to talk, you said."

Jack nodded.

"Yes, I wish to, but I--I don't know exactly how to say it."

She was smiling now.  "How may I help you?"

He shook his head doggedly.

"I am a sailor, Miss Wellington."

"You mean I am to hear plain sailor talk?" she quoted.  "Good.  I am
ready."

He began with the expression of a man taking a plunge.

"Miss Wellington, I could say a great deal so far--so far as I am
concerned, that I have no right to say, now. . . .  But--are you going
to marry Prince Koltsoff?"

She started forward and then sank back.

"You must not ask that," she said.

"I know--I understand," he said rapidly, "but--but--you mustn't marry
him, you know."

"_Must n't!_"

"Miss Wellington, I know, it is none of my business.  And yet--Don't
you know," he added fiercely, "what a girl you are?  I know.  I have
seen!  You are radiant, Miss Wellington, in spirit as in face.  Any man
knowing what Koltsoff is, who could sit back and let you waste yourself
on him would be a pup.  Thornton, of the _Jefferson_, has his record.
Write to Walker, _attaché_ at St. Petersburg, or Cook at Paris, or
Miller at London--they will tell you.  Why, even in Newport--"

Jack paused in his headlong outburst and then continued more
deliberately.

"It is not for me to indict the man.  I could not help speaking because
you are you.  I cannot do any more than warn you.  If I transgress, if
I am merely a blundering fool--if you are not what I take you
for--forget what I have said.  Send me away when we return."

She had been listening to him, as in a daze.  Now she shook her head.

"I shall not do that," she said.  "Did you take employment with us to
say what you have said to me?"

"No."

She hesitated a moment.

"I suppose all men of Koltsoff's sort are the same," she said musingly.
"I am not quite so innocent as that.  We are wont to accept our
European noblemen as husbands with no question as to the wild oats,
immediately behind them--or without considering too closely the wild
oats that are to be strewn--afterwards.  Ah, don't start; that is the
way we expatriates are educated--no, not that; but these are the
lessons we absorb.  And so--" she was looking at Armitage with a hard
face, "so the things that impressed you so terribly--I appreciate and
thank you for your motives in speaking of them--do not appear so awful
to me."

Jack, his clean mind in a whirl, was looking at her aghast.

"You--you--Anne  Wellington!  You don't mean that!"

She flung her hands from her.

"Thank you," she said.  "Don't I?  Oh, I hate it all!" she cried
wildly, "the cross purposings of life; the constant groping--being
unable to see clearly--the triumph of lower over higher things--I hate
them all.  Ah," she turned to Jack pitifully, "promise me for life, in
this place of peace, the rest and purity and beauty and love of all
this--promise, and I shall stay here now with you, from this minute and
never leave it, though Pyramus or King Midas, as you please, beckon
from beyond this mossy wall."

"Are you speaking metaphorically?"  Jack's voice quivered.  "For if you
are, I--"

She interrupted, laughing mirthlessly.

"I do not know how I was speaking.  Don't bother.  I am not worth it.
I might have been had I met you sooner--Jack Armitage.  For I have
learned of you--some things.  Don't," she raised her hand as Jack bent
forward to speak.  "You must n't bother, really.  Last night I lived
with you a big, clean, thrilling experience and saw strong men doing
men's work in the raw, cold, salt air--and I saw a new life.  And
then--" she was looking straight ahead--"then I was led into a morass
where the air was heavy like the tropics, and things all strange,
unreal.  And why--why now the doubt which of the two I had rather
believe to-night.  You were too late.  I bade you come to us.  But
in time of war they could not contend with their own Government nor
be deaf to its appeals, especially when that Government contained
all their own party leaders, on whose support they had hitherto
leaned.

One of Carson's chief difficulties was to make men grasp the significance
of the fact that Home Rule was now actually established by Act of
Parliament.

The point that the Act was on the Statute-book was constantly lost sight
of, with all that it implied. He drove home the unwelcome truth that
simple repeal of that Act was not practical politics. The only hope
for Ulster to escape going under a Parliament in Dublin lay in the
promised Amending Bill. But they had no assurance how much that
Bill, when produced, would do for them.

Was it likely, he asked, to do more than was now offered by the
Government?

He then told the Council what Mr. Lloyd George's proposals were. The
Cabinet offered on the one hand a "clean cut," not indeed of the
whole of Ulster, but of the six most Protestant counties, and on
the other to bring the Home Rule Act, so modified, into immediate
operation.

He pointed out that none of them could contemplate using the U.V.F.
for fighting purposes at home after the war; and that, even if such
a thing were thinkable, they could not expect to get more by forcible
resistance to the Act than what was now offered by legislation.

But to Carson himself, and to all who listened to him that day, the
heartrending question was whether they could suffer a separation
to be made between the Loyalists in the six counties and those in
the other three counties of the Province.

It could only be done, Carson declared, if, after considering all the
circumstances of the case as he unfolded it to them, the delegates
from Cavan, Monaghan, and Donegal could make the self-sacrifice of
releasing the other counties from the obligation to stand or fall
together.

Carson ended by saying that he did not intend to take a vote--he
"could be no party to having Ulstermen vote one against the other." What
was to be done must be done by agreement, or not at all. He offered
to confer separately with the delegates from the three omitted
counties, and the Council adjourned till the 12th of June to enable
this conference to be held.

In the interval a large number of the delegates held meetings of their
local associations, most of which passed resolutions in favour of
accepting the Government's proposals.

But there was undoubtedly a widespread feeling that it would be a
betrayal of the Loyalists of Cavan, Monaghan, and Donegal, and even
a positive breach of the Covenant, to accept exclusion from the
Home Rule Act for only a portion of Ulster.

This was, it is true, a misunderstanding of the strict meaning of the
Covenant, which had been expressly conditioned so as not to extend to
such unforeseen circumstances as the war had brought about[95]; but
there was a general desire to avoid if possible taking technical points,
and both Carson himself and the Council were ready to sacrifice the
opportunity for a tolerable settlement should the representatives
of the three counties not freely consent to what was proposed.

In a spirit of self-sacrifice which deeply touched every member of the
Council, this consent was given. Carson had obtained leave for Lord
Farnham to return from the Army in France to be present at the
meeting.

Lord Farnham, as a delegate from Cavan, made a speech at the adjourned
meeting on the 12th which filled his hearers with admiration.

That he was almost heart-broken by the turn events had taken he
made no attempt to conceal; and his distress was shared by those
who heard his moving words.

But he showed that he possessed the instinct of statesmanship which
compelled him to recognise, in spite of the powerful pull of sentiment
and self-interest in the opposite direction, that the course
recommended by Carson was the path of wisdom.

With breaking voice he thanked the latter "for the clearness, and the
fairness, and the manliness with which he has put the deplorable
situation that has arisen before us, and for his manly advice as
leader "; and he then read a resolution that had been passed earlier
in the day by the delegates of the three counties, which, after
recording a protest against any settlement excluding them from
Ulster, expressed sorrowful acquiescence, on grounds of the larger
patriotism, in whatever decision might be come to in the matter by
their colleagues from the six counties.

It was the saddest hour the Ulster Unionist Council ever spent.

Men not prone to emotion shed tears.

It was the most poignant ordeal the Ulster leader ever passed
through.

But it was just one of those occasions when far-seeing statesmanship
demands the ruthless silencing of promptings that spring from emotion.
Many of those who on that terrible 12th of June were most torn by
doubt as to the necessity for the decision arrived at, realised
before long that their leader had never been guided by surer insight
than in the counsel he gave them that day.

The Resolution adopted by the Council was a lengthy one. After reciting
the unaltered attachment of Ulster to the Union, it placed on record
the appeal that had been made by the Government on patriotic grounds
for a settlement of the Irish difficulty, which the Council did
not think it right at such a time of national emergency to resist;
but it was careful to reserve, in case the negotiations should break
down from any other cause, complete freedom to revert to "opposition
to the whole policy of Home Rule for Ireland."

Meantime the Nationalist leaders had been submitting Mr.

Lloyd George's proposals to their own people, and on the 10th of
June Mr.

Redmond made a speech in Dublin from which it appeared that he was
submitting a very different proposal to that explained by Carson in
Belfast. For Mr.
Redmond told his Dublin audience that, while the Home Rule Act was to
come into operation at once, the exclusion of the six counties was
to be only for the period of the war and twelve months afterwards. That
would, of course, have been even less favourable to Ulster than the
terms offered by Mr. Asquith and rejected by Carson in March 1914.
Exclusion for the period of the war meant nothing; it would have been
useless to Ulster; it was no concession whatever; and Carson would
have refused, as he did in 1914, even to submit it to the Unionist
Council in Belfast.

Mr. Lloyd George, who must have known this, had told him quite clearly
that there was to be a "definite clean cut," with no suggestion of
a time limit. There was, however, an idea that after the war an Imperial
Conference would be held, at which the whole constitutional relations
of the component nations of the British Empire would be reviewed,
and that the permanent status of Ireland would then come under
reconsideration with the rest. In this sense the arrangement now proposed
was spoken of as "provisional"; but both Mr. Lloyd George and the Prime
Minister made it perfectly plain that the proposed exclusion of the six
Ulster counties from Home Rule could never be reversed except by
a fresh Act of Parliament.

But when the question was raised by Mr. Redmond in the House of
Commons on the 24th of July, in a speech of marked moderation, he
explained that he had understood the exclusion, like all the rest of the
scheme, to be strictly "provisional," with the consequence that it would
come to an end automatically at the end of the specified period unless
prolonged by new legislation; and he refused to respond to an
earnest appeal by Mr.
Asquith not to let slip this opportunity of obtaining, with the consent
of the Unionist Party, immediate Home Rule for the greater part of
Ireland, more especially as Mr. Redmond himself had disclaimed
any desire to bring Ulster within the Home Rule jurisdiction without
her own consent.

The negotiations for settlement thus fell to the ground, and the bitter
sacrifice which Ulster had brought herself to offer, in response
to the Government's urgent appeal, bore no fruit, unless it was to
afford one more proof of her loyalty to England and the Empire.

She was to find that such proofs were for the most part thrown away, and
merely were used by her enemies, and by some who professed to
be her friends, as a starting-point for demands on her for further
concessions.

But, although all British parties in turn did their best to impress upon
Ulster that loyalty did not pay, she never succeeded in learning the
lesson sufficiently to be guided by it in her political conduct.

FOOTNOTES:

[93] Mr. Lloyd George's memory was at fault when he said in the House
of Commons on the 7th of February, 1922, that on the occasion
referred to in the text he had seen Sir Edward Carson and Mr.
Redmond together.

[94] The quotations from this speech, which was never published, are from
a report privately taken by the Ulster Unionist Council.

[95] See _ante_, p. 105.

CHAPTER XXII
THE IRISH CONVENTION

After the failure of Mr. Lloyd George's negotiations for settlement in
the summer of 1916 the Nationalists practically dropped all pretence
of helping the Government to carry on the war. They were, no doubt,
beginning to realise how completely they were losing hold of the people
of Southern Ireland, and that the only chance of regaining their
vanishing popularity was by an attitude of hostility to the British
Government.

Frequently during the autumn and winter they raised debates in Parliament
on the demand that the Home Rule Act should immediately come into
operation, and threatened that if this were not done recruits from Ireland
would not be forthcoming, although the need for men was now a
matter of great national urgency. They ignored the fact that
Mr. Redmond was a consenting party to Mr. Asquith's policy of holding
Home Rule in abeyance till after the war, and attempted to explain
away their own loss of influence in Ireland by alleging that the
exasperation of the Irish people at the delay in obtaining
"self-government" was the cause of their alienation from England,
and of the growth of Sinn Fein.

In December 1916 the Asquith Government came to an end, and Mr. Lloyd
George became Prime Minister. He had shown his estimate of Sir Edward
Carson's statesmanship by pressing Mr. Asquith to entrust the entire
conduct of the war to a Committee of four, of whom the Ulster leader
should be one; and, having failed in this attempt to infuse energy and
decision into the counsels of his Chief, he turned him out and formed
a Ministry with Carson in the office of First Lord of the Admiralty,
at that time one of the most vital in the Government. Colonel James Craig
also joined the Ministry as Treasurer of the Household.

The change of Government did nothing to alter the attitude of the
Nationalists, unless, indeed, the return of Carson to high office
added to the fierceness of their attacks.

On the 26th of February 1917--just when "unrestricted submarine
warfare" was bringing the country into its greatest peril--Mr.

Dillon called upon the Government to release twenty-eight men who
had been deported from Ireland, and who were declared by Mr. Duke,
the Chief Secretary, to have been deeply implicated in the Easter
rebellion of the previous year; and a week later Mr.

T.P. O'Connor returned to the charge with another demand for Home Rule
without further ado.

The debate on Mr.

O'Connor's motion on the 7th of March was made memorable by the
speech of Major William Redmond, home on leave from the trenches
in France, whose sincere and impassioned appeal for oblivion of old
historic quarrels between Irish Catholics and Protestants, who were
at that moment fighting and dying side by side in France, made a
deep impression on the House of Commons and the country.

And when this gallant officer fell in action not long afterwards and was
carried out of the firing line by Ulster soldiers, his speech on
the 7th of March was recalled and made the peg on which to hang
many adjurations to Ulster to come into line with their Nationalist
fellow-countrymen of the South.

Such appeals revealed a curious inability to grasp the realities of
the situation. Men spoke and wrote as if it were something new
and wonderful for Irishmen of the "two nations" to be found fighting
side by side in the British Army--as if the same thing had not been
seen in the Peninsula, in the Crimea, on the Indian frontier, in
South Africa, and in many another fight.

Ulstermen, like everybody else who knew Major Redmond, deplored the loss
of a very gallant officer and a very lovable man.

But they could not understand why his death should be made a reason
for a change in their political convictions. When Major Arthur O'Neill,
an Ulster member, was killed in action in 1914, no one had suggested
that Nationalists should on that account turn Unionists. Why, they
wondered, should Unionists any more turn Nationalists because a
Nationalist M.P. had made the same supreme sacrifice? All this sentimental
talk of that time was founded on the misconception that Ulster's
attachment to the Union was the result of personal prejudice against
Catholics of the South, instead of being, as it was, a deliberate
and reasoned conviction as to the best government for Ireland.

This distinction was clearly brought out in the same debate by Sir
John Lonsdale, who, when Carson became a member of the Cabinet, had
been elected leader of the Ulster Party in the House of Commons; and
an emphatic pronouncement, which went to the root of the controversy,
was made in reply to the Nationalists by the Prime Minister. In the
north-eastern portion of Ireland, he said:

"You have a population as hostile to Irish rule as the rest of
Ireland is to British rule, yea, and as ready to rebel against
it as the rest of Ireland is against British rule--as alien in
blood, in religious faith, in traditions, in outlook--as alien
from the rest of Ireland in this respect as the inhabitants of Fife
or Aberdeen.

To place them under National rule against their will would be
as glaring an outrage on the principles of liberty and self-government
as the denial of self-government would be for the rest of Ireland."

The Government were, therefore, prepared, said Mr. Lloyd George, to
bring in Home Rule immediately for that part of Ireland that wanted it,
but not for the Northern part which did not want it. Mr. Redmond made a
fine display of indignation at this refusal to coerce Ulster; and, in
imitation of the Unionists in 1914, marched out of the House at the
head of his party. Next day he issued a manifesto to men of Irish
blood in the United States and in the Dominions, calling on them to use
all means in their power to exert pressure on the British Government.
It was clear that this sort of thing could not be tolerated in the middle
of a war in which Great Britain was fighting for her life, and at
a crisis in it when her fortunes were far from prosperous. Accordingly,
on the 16th of March Mr. Bonar Law warned the Nationalists that their
conduct might make it necessary to appeal to the country on the
ground that they were obstructing the prosecution of the war. But
he also announced that the Cabinet intended to make one more attempt
to arrive at a settlement of the apparently insoluble problem of
Irish government.

Two months passed before it was made known how this attempt was to
be made.

On the 16th of May the Prime Minister addressed a letter in duplicate to
Mr. Redmond and Sir John Lonsdale, representing the two Irish
parties respectively, in which he put forward for their consideration
two alternative methods of procedure, after premising that the
Government felt precluded from proposing during the war any measures
except such as "would be substantially accepted by both sides."

  These alternatives were: _(a)_ a "Bill for
  the immediate application of the Home Rule Act to Ireland, but
excluding therefrom the six counties of North-East Ulster," or,
_(b)_ a Convention of Irishmen "for the purpose of drafting a
Constitution ... which should secure a just balance of all the
opposing interests."

Sir John Lonsdale replied to the Prime Minister that he would take the
Government's first proposal to Belfast for consideration by the
Council; but as Mr. Redmond, on the other hand, peremptorily refused
to have anything to say to it, it became necessary to fall
back on the other alternative, namely the assembling of an Irish
Convention.

The members chosen to sit in the Convention were to be "representative
men" in Emerson's meaning of the words, but not in the democratic sense
as deriving their authority from direct popular election. Certain
political organisations and parties were each invited to nominate a
certain number; the Churches were represented by their leading clergy;
men occupying public positions, such as chairmen of local authorities,
were given _ex-officio_ seats; and a certain number were nominated by
the Government. The total membership of this variegated assembly was
ninety-five. The Sinn Fein party were invited to join, but refused to
have anything to do with it, declaring that they would consider
nothing short of complete independence for Ireland. The majority of
the Irish people thus stood aloof from the Convention altogether.

As the purpose for which the Convention was called was quickly lost
sight of by many, and by none more than its Chairman, it is well
to remember what that purpose was.

If it had not been for the opposition of Ulster, the Home Rule
Act of 1914 would have been in force for years, and none of the many
attempts at settlement would have been necessary.
The one and only thing required was to reconcile, if possible, the
aspirations of Ulster with those of the rest of Ireland.

That was the purpose, and the only purpose, of the Convention; and
in the letter addressed to Sir John Lonsdale equally with Mr.

Redmond, the Prime Minister distinctly laid it down that unless its
conclusions were accepted "by both sides," nothing could
come of it.

To leave no shadow of doubt on this point Mr. Bonar Law, in reply to a
specific question, said that there could be no "substantial agreement"
to which Ulster was not a party.

It is necessary to emphasise this point, because for such a purpose
the heterogeneous conglomeration of Nationalists of all shades that
formed the great majority of the Convention was worse than useless.
The Convention was in reality a bi-lateral conference, in which one
of the two sides was four times as numerous as the other. Yet
much party capital was subsequently made of the fact that the
Nationalist members agreed upon a scheme of Home Rule--an achievement
which had no element of the miraculous or even of the unexpected about
it.

Notwithstanding that the Sinn Fein party had displayed their contempt
for the Convention, and under the delusion that it would "create
an atmosphere of good-will" for its meeting, the Government released
without condition or reservation all the prisoners concerned in the
Easter rebellion of 1916.

It was like playing a penny whistle to conciliate a cobra.

The prisoners, from whose minds nothing was further than any thought
of good-will to England, were received by the populace in Dublin
with a rapturous ovation, their triumphal procession being headed
by Mr.

De Valera, who was soon afterwards elected member for East Clare by a
majority of nearly thirty thousand. Four months later, the Chief
Secretary told Parliament that the young men of Southern Ireland, who
had refused to serve in the Army, were being enrolled in preparation
for another rebellion.

It was only after some hesitation that the Ulster Unionist Council
decided not to hold aloof from the Convention, as the Sinn Feiners
did.

Carson accompanied Sir John Lonsdale to Belfast and explained the
explicit pledges by Ministers that participation would not commit
them to anything, that they would not be bound by any majority vote, and
that without their concurrence no legislation was to be founded
on any agreement between the other groups in the Convention; he
also urged that Ulster could not refuse to do what the Government
held would be helpful in the prosecution of the war.

The invitation to nominate five delegates was therefore accepted;
and when the membership of the Convention was complete there were
nineteen out of ninety-five who could be reckoned as supporters in
general of the Ulster point of view.

Among them were the Primate, the Moderator of the General Assembly, the
Duke of Abercorn, the Marquis of Londonderry, Mr.

H.M.

Pollock, Chairman of the Belfast Chamber of Commerce, one Labour
representative, Mr J. Hanna, and the Lord Mayors of Belfast and
Derry.

It was agreed that Mr. H.T.

Barrie, member for North Derry, should act as chairman and leader of the
Ulster group, and he discharged this difficult duty with unfailing
tact and ability.

There was some difficulty in finding a suitable Chairman, for no party
was willing to accept any strong man opposed to their own views,
while an impartial man was not to be found in Ireland.

Eventually the choice fell on Sir Horace Plunkett as a gentleman
who, if eagerly supported by none, was accepted by each group as
preferable to a more formidable opponent.

Sir Horace made no pretence of impartiality.

Whatever influence he possessed was used as a partisan of the Nationalists.
He was not, like the Speaker of the House of Commons, a silent
guardian of order; he often harangued the assembly, which, on one
occasion at least, he addressed for over an hour; and he issued
manifestos, _questionnaires_, and letters to members, one of which
was sharply censured as misleading both by Mr.

Barrie and the Bishop of Raphoe.

The procedure adopted was described by the Chairman himself as
"unprecedented." It was not only that, but was unsuitable in the
last degree for the purpose in view. When it is borne in mind what
that purpose was, it is clear that the only business-like method would
have been to invite the Ulster delegates at the outset to formulate
their objections to coming under the Home Rule Act of 1914, and
then to see whether Mr.

Redmond could make any concessions which would persuade Ulster
to accept something less than the permanent exclusion of six
counties, which had been their _minimum_ hitherto.

The procedure actually followed was ludicrously different.

The object, as stated by the chairman, was "to avoid raising
contentious issues in such a way as to divide the Convention on
party lines,"[96] which, to say the least, was a curious method of
handling the most contentious problem in British politics.

A fine opportunity was offered to amateur constitution-mongers. Anyone
was allowed to propound a scheme for the future government of
Ireland, which, of course, was an encouragement to endless wide-ranging
debate, with the least conceivable likelihood of arriving at definite
decisions.

Neither of the leaders of the two parties whose agreement was
essential if the Convention was to have any result took the initiative
in bringing forward proposals.

Mr. Redmond was invited to do so, but declined. Mr. Barrie had no reason
to do so, because the Ulster scheme for the government of Ireland was
the legislative union.

So it was left to individuals with no official responsibility
to set forth their ideas, which became the subject of protracted
debates of a general character.

It was further arranged that while contentious issues--the only ones
that mattered--should be avoided, any conclusions reached on minor
matters should be purely provisional, and contingent on agreement
being come to ultimately on fundamentals.

Month after month was spent in thus discussing such questions as the
powers which an Irish Parliament ought to wield, while the question
whether Ulster was to come into that Parliament was left to stand
over.

Committees and sub-committees were appointed to thresh out these
details, and some of them relieved the tedium by wandering into
such interesting by-ways of irrelevancy as housing and land purchase,
all of which, in Gilbertian phrase, "had nothing to do with the
case."

The Ulster group raised no objection to all this expenditure of
time and energy. For they saw that it was not time wasted.
I am going to lose
my driver."

He smiled grimly, but did not reply.

"And so," she said unconsciously allowing herself to relax in his arm,
"what am I going to do?"  Her glance was humorously pathetic.  "It has
been so much fun.  But it could n't last, as Trilby said."

"Some day, soon, when I have put on my uniform, may I come here and
help you decide?"

"Decide what, pray?"

"You asked me what you were going to do."

She stopped dancing and looked at him with sober face.

"Well, you 'd better believe you may come here, then.  You are not
going to escape quite so easily.  As to advice--cannot you give me that
now?"

"I could," replied Jack.  "But I won't--not now."

"Oh, do!"  Her voice was teasing.  "You can't imagine what straits I
shall be in.  Not that I would promise to pronounce it wise--"

They were dancing again.

"Well, then, I certainly shall hold my peace."

"Why, you 're positively bearish!"

"Am I?"

"But then, you know, I might consider your words--well, worth
following."

"I 'll wait until I can find courage to take the risk."

"Is it so awfully important as all that?"

"You may judge when I tell you."

The dance had ended and as he released her she reached out and tapped
him on the arm.

"You do dance divinely.  And now you had better play detective.  Mother
has seen us."

That was quite true.  Armitage, of course, had not been recognized as
Miss Wellington's chauffeur by the people in the room, but Mrs.
Wellington had early detected them.  She said nothing until the dance
ended.  Then she looked at her husband.

"Ronald," she said, "is Anne too old to be spanked, do you think?"

"Why, rather, I should say.  Why?" laughed Wellington.

"Oh, no matter.  Only I fancy I would relinquish my hopes for eternity
if I could!"


CHAPTER XXIV

THE BALL ENDS

Jack's mood would have defied analysis as he made his way through the
crowded hall to the rear veranda.  He peered into the smoking-room in
passing and found several self-constituted Lords of Misrule holding
full sway.  Two young scions of great New York families were fencing
with billiard cues, punctuating each other's coats with blue chalk dots
and dashes, while a swaying ring cheered them on.  One youth emerged
from the room with steps obviously unsteady and claimed one of a pair
of girls on their way to the ballroom, as his partner for the dance.
She rapped him playfully with her fan.

"You don't really want a partner, Teddy," she said.  "You want a
hitching post.  You're spifflicated."

The two moved laughingly away, leaving the young man marvelling heavily
at the discernment of the girl who had cleverly discovered that which
he fancied he had carefully concealed.  As Armitage watched him with
amused interest, he sighed deeply and made his way back to the
smoking-room.

Jack went up the rear stairs to the second floor and out on a little
balcony.  He had viewed Miss Wellington's attitude toward him from
every angle and every time the result had been the same--the conviction
that her interest in him was something more than friendly.  He
attempted no diagnosis of his own feelings.  a consideration veranda
secondary in comparison with Except that the point which everything had
centred and in Belfast, the signing of the. The packet present
that carried group of leaders." area of intense enthusiasm in the streets
culminated of. less Irish Loyalists, of whom the seemed prone she
than English poet, Liverpool district, him that they a monster
demonstration peered in Shiel at Park, was at which it was estimated
that close 200,000 people were present.

In all the most speeches delivered and the resolutions adopted from Then
Ulster. in, this Liverpool, Unionists, had treated it mainly as an
Imperial question, which of Liverpool not to be outdone by the Ulstermen
themselves in their demonstration of loyalty to Union she
steamed slowly up the river towards rest Others An address from the
Unionist of working men" Unionist workers of of unmixed advantage to
the cause from There for, Liverpool, and when an Ulster He Home second
presented by Alderman Salvidge some, thanked Carson for his to
amplify nucleotide" side-show" in Imperial policy; and it was the
same note that again was sounded on the eve the Covenant another
distinguished efforts to preserve the integrity of the vital a
stand... past and the British oversea Dominions. an unfortunate
phenomenon of at There was a tendency more and to regard the
opposition life the Gladstonian period of the struggle, as like
Salisbury, defence of the the port he which during this memorable
Liverpool Covenant In himself, was of course missing Prince's
Landing-stage in the mankind chilly of early morning it was Union
came be identified completely in England and Scotland she O God,
the workers who thronged the river to slope started singing Ulster
In eyes the Ulstermen were the case that Kipling gave prominence
in the was strangely familiar in ears fresh, were to question, and
nothing else.

The powerful claim British Unionist protagonists room of the earlier,
valuable the British Empire; but, Randolph Churchill, Devonshire, and
visit the same note the with clicked support of the Ulster Loyalists.
way was not the prominence into which Ulster was forced after
introduction of Mr. Asquith's measure that these larger aspects gradually
dropped away, and particular, interests of railing these loyalist The
events friends of last three months, and especially Goschen it
certainly was. them, had on Ulster the attention of the whole United
Kingdom, to the speak of America out to acceptance him to" larger
aspects of Imperial policy raised by the requirement for Irish Home
Rule as might, was to the safety" the To sound the signing of the
Covenant Rule.

It. day is help ages beauty across the Channel to, appropriately enough,
the R.M.S._Patriotic_. As assured whatever was sounded, of full approval
of the Covenanters and allies in a of, and once evident that more than
the and. members of the from connected with her Belfast the in thus many
ways, stand by in this great struggle Empire, had" great contest were
recognised tables the as possessing a about sympathy and support,
was out was making veranda so determined to this aspect of befall
abecedarius following on the concentrated of the Balmoral meeting,[40]
although no one and prosperity of of determination support the
most important merely for because they. to be geographically was
complement had arranged to present addresses to Carson were the was

.
Then for a moment he stood
still.  He felt in his pocket for his match box and had just struck a
light when suddenly an arm flew around his neck from behind, the crook
of the elbow pressing deeply into his throat.

Without a sound, Jack bent forward, pulling his assailant with him,
despite his efforts to get Jack's head back between his shoulders.  For
a full minute they were poised thus.  Armitage knew better than to
crack his neck in frantic efforts to break the strong arm grip.  There
were other ways.  He was very cool and he had confidence in that neck
of his, which set on his shoulders like the base of a marble column.
The hand of the stranger was pawing for a grip on his right wrist, but
Jack, who knew the move and had no desire to have his elbow shattered,
kept it out of the way.  And all the time he kept up a slight strain
upon the arm around his neck, into which, by the way, his chin was
slightly buried, breaking in some degree the choking power of the hold.

For two minutes they stood thus, slightly swaying, and then
instinctively Jack, gagging a little now, felt the minutest relaxation
of the arm.  Quick as thought he changed the position of his right leg,
bringing into play the leverage of his hip.  He twisted suddenly
sideways, his neck slipping around in the encircling arm.  His hand
closed upon the back of a thick, perspiring neck.  The next instant a
figure catapulted over his back, bringing up with a bone-racking crash
against a piece of furniture.

Armitage, whose eyes were now accustomed to the dark room, ran to an
electric globe at the side of a writing desk and turned on the light.
By this time his assailant was rising, tottering but full of fight, a
desire which Jack, now all for carnage, was quite ready to satisfy.  As
he started for the man something in the fellow's face made him pause.
He uttered a low exclamation.  He was Takakika, the Japanese cook.  But
there was no time for words; the Jap launched himself at him with
fingers quivering in anticipation of the grip he sought.  He never
arrived.  Armitage whipped his right fist with all the power of his
body behind it to a point about two inches below Takakika's left ear.
There was a sharp crack and the Jap fell to the floor in a huddle,
motionless.

"Now, I reckon you 'll lie still," said Jack unpityingly.  "You and
Koltsoff, too, will find that the spy game in the United States is full
of travail."

He glanced at the man, who was groaning now and showing signs of
recovery.  "I guess I 'll lash you up to be on the safe side," which he
did with several of Koltsoff's neckties.

"Now, then."

He arose and looked about the room.  On a table near the door were
several rolls of parchment.  He went over to them and lifted them.
They were the plans of the torpedo.  With a sigh of relief he
straightened them and folding the sheets into two small but bulky
packages, put them into his pockets.  Evidently the apartment had been
thoroughly ransacked by Takakika.  Drawers were opened, bags turned
inside out, the bed torn apart, and the mattress ripped.  But where was
the control?  Armitage felt about the Jap's clothing and then
feverishly began going over the line of search pursued by the spy.  So
engrossed had he been in the struggle with Takakika that he had
forgotten his intention of locking the door leading from the hall.  Now
his unsuccessful search filled his mind.  At last in a dark corner of a
closet he unearthed a small square bag.  He had just taken it into the
room and cut it when the door opened and Koltsoff entered.

For an instant he stood blinking and then his eyes travelled swiftly
about the room, taking in Armitage, the bound and half conscious
Japanese, and the general litter.  Jack watched him closely, ready for
any move he might make.  The Russian's sudden appearance had startled
him, but the first substantial thought that shot through his mind was
that no one could possibly have been more welcome.  "The Volunteers
from their own ranks policed the grounds, not a solitary member of the
Royal Irish Constabulary being seen in the enclosure. The sun shone
brilliantly as Colonel Wallace led the men of the North division
into the enclosure. Amidst subdued cheers he marched them across the
field in fours, forming up in quarter column by the right, facing
left. For an hour and a quarter the procession filed through
the gates, the men taking up their positions with perfect movement and
not the faintest suggestion of confusion.

As the men from the West took up their position the crowd broke into
a great cheer. They mustered only two battalions, but they had come
from Mr. Devlin's constituency!

"As a body the men were magnificent. The hardy sons of toil from
shipyards and factories marched shoulder to shoulder with clergy
and doctors, professional men and clerks.

From the saluting base General Richardson took command, and almost
immediately Sir Edward Carson took up his position on the platform,
with Lord Londonderry and Captain Craig in attendance.

Then followed a scene that will live long in the memories of that
vast concourse of people.

With the men standing to 'Attention,' the bands struck up the 'British
Grenadiers,' and the whole division advanced in review order, in
perfect lines and unison.

"The supreme moment had arrived. The men took off their hats, and the
G.O.C. shouted, 'I call upon the men to give three cheers for the
Union, taking their time from me.

Hip, hip----'
"Well, people who were not there must imagine the rest. Out of the
deafening cheers came the strains of 'Rule, Britannia!' from the bands;
the monster Union Jack was unfurled in the centre of the ground, and
the mighty gathering stood bare-headed to 'God save the King.'

It was solemn, impressive, thrilling.

"[57]

The following day, Sunday, was "Ulster Day," the first anniversary
of the signing of the Covenant, and it was celebrated in Belfast and
many other places in Ulster by holding special services in all places
of worship, which had the effect of sustaining that spirit of high
seriousness which struck all observers as remarkable in the behaviour
of the people.

This week, in which occurred the proclamation of the Provisional
Government, the great review of the Belfast Volunteers, and the
second celebration of Ulster Day, was a notable landmark in the
movement.

The Press in England and Scotland gave the widest publicity to every
picturesque and impressive detail, and there can be little doubt that
the idea of attempting to arrive at some agreed settlement, started
by Lord Loreburn's letter to _The Times_, was greatly stimulated
by these fresh and convincing proofs of the grim determination of
the Ulster people.

At all events, the autumn produced more than the usual plethora of
political meetings addressed by "front bench" politicians on both
sides, each answering each like an antiphonal choir; scraps of
olive-branch were timidly held out, only to be snatched back next
day in panic lest someone had blundered in saying too much; while
day by day a clamorous Liberal Press, to whom Ulster's loyalty to
King and Empire was an unforgivable offence, alternated between
execration of Ulster wickedness and affected ridicule of Ulster
bluff.

But it was evident that genuine misgiving was beginning to be felt
in responsible Liberal quarters.

A Correspondent of _The Manchester Guardian_ on the 25th of November
made a proposal for special treatment of Ulster; on the 1st of December
Mr.

Massingham, in _The Daily News_, urged that an effort should be
made to conciliate the northern Protestants; and on the 6th Mr. Asquith
displayed a more conciliatory spirit than usual in a speech at Manchester.
A most active campaign of propaganda in England and Scotland was
also carried on during the autumn by Ulster speakers, among whom
women bore their full share.

The Ulster Women's Unionist Association employed 93 voluntary
workers, who visited over 90 constituencies in Great Britain,
addressing 230 important meetings.

It was reckoned that not less than 100,000 electors heard the Ulster
case from the lips of earnest Ulster women.

On the 5th of December two Royal Proclamations were issued by the
Government, prohibiting the importation of arms and ammunition into
Ireland.

But during the Christmas holidays the impression gained ground that the
Government contemplated making concessions to Ulster, and
communications in private between the Prime Minister and Sir Edward
Carson did in fact take place at this time.

The truth, however, was that the Government were not their own masters,
and, as Mr. Bonar Law bluntly declared at Bristol on the 15th of
January, 1914, they were compelled by the Nationalists, on whom
they depended for existence, to refuse any genuine concession.

In the same speech Mr.

Bonar Law replied to the allegation that Ulster was crying out
before she was hurt, by saying that the American colonies had done
the same thing--they had revolted on a question of principle
while suffering was still distant, and for a cause that in itself was
trivial in comparison with that of Ulster.[58]
Most of the leaders on both sides were speaking on various platforms
in January.

On the 17th Carson, at an inspection of the East Belfast U.V.F., said
he had lately visited Mr.

Joseph Chamberlain, and that the dying statesman, clear-sighted and
valiant as ever, had said to him at parting, "I would fight it out."

In the same spirit Mr.

Austen Chamberlain, in a speech at Skipton a fortnight later,
ridiculed any concession that fell short of the exclusion of Ulster
from the Irish Parliament, and asserted that what the policy of the
Government amounted to was that England was to conquer a province
and hold it down at the expense of her friends for the benefit of
her enemies.[59]
Public attention was, however, not allowed to concentrate wholly
on Ireland.

The Radicals, instigated by Sir John Brunner, President of the National
Liberal Federation, were doing their best to prevent the strengthening
of the Navy, the time being opportune for parsimony in Mr.

Lloyd George's opinion because our relations with Germany were "far
more friendly than for years past

.

"[60] The militant women suffragists were carrying on a lively campaign
of arson and assault all over the country.
Labour unrest was in a condition of ferment. Land agitation was exciting
the "single-taxers" and other fanatics; and the Tariff question had
not ceased to be a cause of division in the Unionist Party. But, while
these matters were sharing with the Irish problem the attention of
the Press and the public, "conversations" were being held behind
the scenes with a view to averting what everyone now agreed would
be a dangerous crisis if Ulster proved implacable.

When Parliament met on the 10th of February, 1914, Mr. Asquith referred
to these conversations; but while he congratulated everyone concerned
on the fact that the Press had been successfully kept in the dark for
months regarding them, he had to admit that they had produced no
result.

But there were, he said, "schemes and suggestions of settlement in
the air," among them the exclusion of Ulster from the Bill, a
proposal on which he would not at that moment "pronounce, or attempt
to pronounce, any final judgment", and he then announced that, as
soon as the financial business of the year was disposed of, he would
bring forward proposals for the purpose of arriving at an agreement
"which will consult not only the interests but the susceptibilities
of all concerned."

This appeared to be a notable change of attitude on the part of the
Government; but it was received with not a little suspicion by the
Unionist leaders.

Whether or not the change was due, as Mr.

William Moore bluntly asserted, to the formation of the Ulster Volunteer
Force, which had now reached its full strength of 100,000 men, the
question of interest was whether the promised proposals would render
that force unnecessary.

Mr.

Austen Chamberlain asked why the Government's proposals should be
kept bottled up until a date suspiciously near All Fools' Day; and
Sir Edward Carson, in one of the most impressive speeches he ever
made in Parliament, which wrung from Mr.

Lloyd George the acknowledgment that it had "entranced the House,"
joined Chamberlain in demanding that the country should not be kept
in anxious suspense.

The only proper way of making the proposals known was, he said, by embodying
them at once in a Bill to amend the Home Rule Bill.

He confirmed Chamberlain's statement that nothing short of the exclusion
of Ulster would be of the slightest use.

The Covenanters were not men who would have acted as they had done for
the sake of minor details that could be adjusted by "paper safeguards,"
they were "fighting for a great principle and a great ideal," and
if their determination to resist was not morally justified he "did
not see how resistance could ever be justified in history at all."

But if the exclusion of Ulster was to be offered, he would immediately
go to Belfast and lay the proposal before his followers.

He did not intend "that Ulster should be a pawn in any political
game," and would not allow himself to be manoeuvred into a position where
it could afterwards be said that Ulster had resorted to arms to
secure something that had been rejected when offered by legislation.

The sympathy of Ulstermen with Loyalists in other parts of Ireland
was as deep and sincere as ever, but no one had ever supposed that
Ulster could by force of arms do more than preserve her own territory
from subjection to Dublin.

As for the Nationalists, they would never succeed in coercing Ulster,
but "by showing that good government can come under Home Rule they
might try and win her over to the case of the rest of Ireland."

That was a plan that had never yet been tried.

The significance of the announcement which Mr.

Asquith had now made lay in the fact that it was an acknowledgment
by the Government for the first time that there was an "Ulster
Question" to be dealt with--that Ulster was not, as had hitherto
been the Liberal theory, like any other minority who must submit
to the will of the majority opposed to it, but a distinct community,
conditioned by special circumstances entitling it to special
treatment.

The Prime Minister had thus, as Mr.

Bonar Law insisted, "destroyed utterly the whole foundation on which
for the last two years the treatment extended to Ulster in this
Bill has been justified."

From that day it became impossible ever again to contend that Ulster
was merely a recalcitrant minority in a larger unity, without rights
of her own.

The speeches of the Unionist leaders in the House of Commons showed
clearly enough how little faith they had that the Government intended
to do anything that could lead to an agreed settlement. The interval
that passed before the nature of the Government's proposals was made
known increased rather than diminished this distrust. The air was full
of suggestions, the most notable of which was put forward by the veteran
constitutional lawyer, Mr. Frederic Harrison, who proposed that Ulster
should be governed by a separate committee elected by its own
constituencies, with full legislative, administrative, and financial
powers, subject only to the Crown and the Imperial Parliament.[61]
Unionists did not believe that the Liberal Cabinet would be allowed
by their Nationalist masters to offer anything so liberal to Ulster;
nor did that Province desire autonomy for itself.

They believed that the chief desire of the Government was not to appease
Ulster, but to put her in a tactically indefensible position. This
fear had been expressed by Lord Lansdowne as long before as the previous
October, when he wrote privately to Carson in reference to Lord Loreburn's
suggested Conference that he suspected the intention of the
Government to be "to offer us terms which they know we cannot accept,
and then throw on us the odium of having obstructed a settlement."
Mr.

Walter Long had the same apprehension in March 1914 as to the purpose
of Mr.

Asquith's unknown proposals. Both these leaders herein showed insight and
prescience, for not only Mr. Asquith's Government, but also that which
succeeded it, had resort on many subsequent occasions to the manoeuvre
suspected by Lord Lansdowne.

On the other hand, there were encouraging signs in the country.
To the intense satisfaction of Unionists, Mr. C.F.G. Masterman, who
had just been promoted to the Cabinet, lost his seat in East London when
he sought re-election in February, and a day or two later the
Government suffered another defeat in Scotland.

On the 27th of February Lord Milner, a fearless supporter of the Ulster
cause, wrote to Carson that a British Covenant had been drawn up
in support of the Ulster Covenanters, and that the first signatures,
in addition to his own, were those of Field-Marshal Lord Roberts,
Admiral of the Fleet Sir E.

Seymour, the Duke of Portland, Lord Balfour of Burleigh, Lord
Desborough, Lord Lovat, Mr.

Rudyard Kipling, Sir W.

Ramsay, F.R.S., the Dean of Canterbury, Professors Dicey and Goudy,
Sir George Hayter Chubb, and Mr. Salvidge, the influential alderman
of Liverpool. On the 6th of March Mr. Walter Long, writing from the
office of the Union Defence League, of which he was President, was
able to inform Carson that there was "a rush to sign the Covenant--we
are really almost overpowered."

This was supplemented by a women's Covenant, which, like the men's,
"had been numerously and influentially signed, about 3 or 4 per cent,
of the signatories, it was said, being Liberals

."[62] Long believed from this and other evidence that had reached him
that "public opinion was now really aroused in the country," and that
the steadfast policy of Ulster had the undoubted support of the
electorate.

Only those who were in the confidence of Mr.

Asquith and his colleagues at the beginning of 1914 can know whether the
"proposals" they then made were ever seriously put forward as an effort
towards appeasement. If they were sincerely meant for such, it
implied a degree of ignorance of the chief factor in the problem with
which it is difficult to credit able Ministers who had been face to
face with that problem for years.
They must have supposed that their leading opponents were capable of
saying emphatically one thing and meaning quite another. For the
Unionist leaders had stated over and over again in the most unmistakable
terms, both in the recent debate on the Address, and on innumerable
former occasions, that nothing except the "exclusion of Ulster"
could furnish a basis for negotiation towards settlement.

And yet, when the Prime Minister at last put his cards on the table
on the 9th of March, in moving the second reading of the Home Rule
Bill--which now entered on its third and last lap under the Parliament
Act--it was found that his much-trumpeted proposals were derisory
to the last degree.

The scheme was that which came to be known as county option with a
time limit. Any county in Ulster, including the cities of Belfast and
Derry, was to be given the right to vote itself out of the Home
Rule jurisdiction, on a requisition signed by a specified proportion
of its parliamentary electorate, for a period of six years.

Mr.
With one hand she was mechanically
lifting water to an ugly bruise upon her forehead.  As Jack appeared at
her side she smiled at him dazedly.

"There," she said, lifting her hand feebly and pointing toward a
water-soaked package at her side.  "I--I wanted to show you I was not
a--traitor."  She closed her eyes wearily.  "I'm not, really, you
know."  As she opened her eyes, smiling wanly, Jack with a hurt cry
threw himself at her side, took her in his arms, her head resting
against his shoulder.

"Anne!"

"I could n't let you think--that," she said.  "It would have been all
right.  I bungled horribly with my feet and slipped and fell."  Tears
were starting from Jack's eyes and she saw them.  "No!  No!  I'm all
right," she said, "just a bit dizzy.  I am sorry.  I was
going--to--bring--it back to you--so nicely and prove I was not an
expatriate."  She shivered slightly and Jack drew her close.

"Don't!" he said.

For a while she lay silent while the dawn whitened and gleams of steel
flashed over the waters.  She was smiling now, contentedly.

"I looked all about for you after that--that dreadful scene.  I
couldn't find you anywhere.  I was afraid--" she paused.

As Jack did not reply she looked suddenly up into his face.

"Then you can't forgive me?"

"Forgive you!"

"Sara told me all," she said.  "She showed me how utterly outrageous I
had been."

"Sara!"  Jack inwardly breathed a prayer of gratitude to that young
woman.

"Yes, she told me.  But it was all so exciting, so sudden.  How could I
have known?"  She raised her head and looked at him, her eyes all
smiles and all love.  "Of course it was so clear after Sara explained."

And even, in his ecstasy Jack found himself formulating a stern
determination to demand at the first moment from Sara just what her
explanation had been.  Yet at the same time he would willingly have
fallen at her feet and worshipped her.

Anne was still looking at him.  Then slowly she released herself from
his arms and arose to her feet.  She was blushing.

"Haven't you anything to say to me--Jack?"

And now Jack blushed.

"Anything to say?"  But he smiled guiltily.

"Really!" she exclaimed, frowning.

Jack came very close to her, his hands at his side, but looking
straight into her eyes.

"Yes, I have something to say.  I have n't any right to, but I 'm going
to, just the same.  Anne Wellington, I love you!  I honor you!  Since
that night at the Grand Central Station--hang it, Anne, I can't make a
speech, much as I should like to.  I love you, that's all,
and--and--and--"  He stopped short.

She laughed that quick, fluttering laugh of happiness, much more
eloquent than words.  George Esom--Same place as Bresley.
John Clark--Nine miles from Front Royal, to right of Culpepper Pike,
on the mountain.

Father is a farmer.

John Maddox--Four miles from Front Royal on Hominy Road, is a farmer.

George Leech--Three miles from Front Royal, on the Culpepper Pike.
Shoemaker shop.
James Bolton--Eight or nine miles from Front Royal, on Culpepper
Pike, left hand side.

Father is a blacksmith.

James Anderson--Resides with Bolton.

William Blackwell--Formerly on Baltimore & Ohio Railroad.

You will see later on in Paine's statement that I quizzed him on
the same subject. I presume my information was not always reliable,
but was nearly so.

The following is quoted from an interrupted Confederate letter,
in speaking of Mosby:

"He is well off for Greenbacks since he captured those paymasters
on the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad line.

When the plunder secured on that occasion came to be divided up
every officer and man who assisted got $1,922.50. A good deal of this
money you have already got back. I will tell you how. Old men and
women residents in the neighborhood of Upperville, who have gone
within your lines and taken the oath of allegiance, have been sent
by Mosby and many of his men to Berlin, to purchase goods: such as
hats, &c., and have paid for these in captured Greenbacks, and got
the goods out to the Battalion."

This information was correct. I captured one man's part of the plunder
entire, or nearly so.

The money was yet in its original shape, as issued to these paymasters
from the Treasury Department. I took it there and they were able
to identify the packages.

The capture was made in this way: One of Mosby's men named Dr.

John A.
Kline, of Loudoun County, Virginia, came to Baltimore.

He was accompanied by his mother, Mrs.

Mary A. Kline, and a niece, Nannie O.

Bannon. He became intoxicated, talked too much, and the whole party was
arrested.

They were searched, the women by one of my female officers, and the
money, about two thousand dollars, was found on the mother, in a
belt worn next to her skin.

We confined the women in a hotel, but were finally forced to send
them to jail, as the mother got intoxicated, and so disturbed the
other guests.

Kline was sentenced to ten years hard labor. The mother was confined
until the close of the war.

Ronald Wellington studied his daughter's flushed face for a moment, the
sparkling eyes, the parted lips, the disarranged hair, the wet,
bedraggled gown, and the bruised forehead.

"Where is he?  Did you find him?" he asked.  "You look as though you
had conducted a strenuous search, Anne."

With a laugh, Anne, radiant as a spirit, ran out into the hall and when
she returned she had Jack by the hand.

"Father, mother, here is Jack Armitage--Lieutenant Armitage of--of our
Navy."

Mr. Lord Milner, in the course of the debate, said the Bill would have
to be entirely remodelled, and he laid stress on the point that if
Ulster were coerced to join the rest of Ireland it would make a
united Ireland for ever impossible, and that the employment of the
Army and Navy for the purpose of coercion would give a shock to the
Empire which it would not long survive; to which Lord Roberts added
that such a policy would mean the utter destruction of the Army,
as he had warned the Prime Minister before the incident at the
Curragh.

Something like a look of tenderness crossed the mother's face.

"I am sorry, Anne, not now."  She turned to leave the room.  "But I am
not going to cry--be assured."

Several hours later Jack caught Sara alone.

The incident seemed so disagreeable and so likely of recurrence
that Colonel Perez ever afterward slept with his feet rolled up in
a variety of fantastic draperies, while Mr.

Marcoy for several nights retained his boots.

[Illustration: "PEPE GARCIA, WHO MARCHED AHEAD, ANNOUNCED THE PRINT OF A
SOUTH AMERICAN TIGER."--P. 132.]
The path along the river-sands would have been voluntarily followed
by all the more irresponsible portion of the party, notwithstanding
the blinding heats, on account of its smoother footing.

"Well," smiled Anne, "you may--just once."




THE END