Perhaps it would be more accurate to say they conceived them as
co-ordinate with the state. Of these principalities they were the
chieftains, chosen in the first place by election--as kings often
were in the old times; but thereafter holding their positions by
virtue of personal right and having the power in the last analysis
by their own acts to determine party policy and to enforce discipline.

Their personalities made these assumptions of power appear not only
inevitable, but proper.
Then, if the Italian party received news of our
whereabouts, Abdullah would steal away and warn us. The mere fact that
he is not here now shows that our presence in this locality is
altogether unsuspected." Fenshawe seemed to weigh his words before he
answered.

"I prefer that Mr. Royson should go, and not Baron von Kerber," said
he. "On the understanding that he interferes with our rivals in no way
whatever, I shall be glad of his report. If we have failed, there is no
harm in knowing the facts. May I ask, Baron, have you any other
surprises to give us in the shape of history, ancient or modern?"

"I have nothing else to say," muttered the other.

"Then, as it is nearly dinner-time, I trust we may forget Saba and its
legends until we learn what progress Signor Alfieri has made. You start
to-night, Mr. Royson?"

"At the first possible moment, sir."

"No, no. Eat, rest, and travel under the stars. That is the golden rule
of a forced march in the desert. We will give you two nights and a day.
Then, if you do not return, I shall send an open embassy to inquire for
you."

Party feeling among the Liberals had been held in leash with difficulty;
now it was running free again. The attitude of the party towards
the government was in effect: "You have tried to play politics with
the war; very well, you will find that this is a game that two can
play at."

The strategy looking to a future trial of strength was skilfully planned.
There was no challenge to the government plans. It was given full
liberty of action upon the understanding that it would accept full
responsibility and be prepared to render an account in due time to
parliament and people.
The tactics were those of paying out the rope as the government called
for it.

The attitude of the Liberal leaders towards the war was unexceptionable.

Sir Wilfrid's recruiting speeches--and he made many of them--were
admirable; and he did not hesitate to point the way of duty to the
young men of his own province.

Upon things done or not done the attitude of the parliamentary Liberals
was increasingly critical; and the government, it must be said, with its
scandals over supplies, its favoritism in recruiting, its beloved
Ross rifle, gave plenty of opportunity to opposition critics. With every
month that passed the political advantage that had come to the
government, because it was charged with the task of making war,
waned.

General elections were due in the autumn of 1916. It became a
serious question of Liberal policy to decide between agreeing to an
extension of the life of parliament, which the government intended to
request, and the forcing of an election. Two lieutenants of Sir Wilfrid
toured Western Canada sounding Liberal opinion; their disappointment
was obvious when, in a conference with a group of Liberals in
Winnipeg, they found opinion solidly adverse to an election.

Their reasons for an election were plainly stated--in brief they were
that on the details of its war management the government could be,
and, in their judgement, should be, beaten. But Sir Wilfrid, with his
hand on the country's pulse, could not be stampeded. He saw, more clearly
than his lieutenants, the danger to the party of refusing an extension
at that time. A twelve months was added to the life of parliament with
a reservation in the minds of the Liberals that the first extension
would be the last. This meant an election in 1917.

THE NATIONALISTS AND ONTARIO
Mr. Bourassa was acutely conscious of the development of opinion in Quebec
favorable to the Liberals, and he sought to retain his hold upon his
following by the tactics which in the first place had given him his
following--by going to extremes and outbidding Laurier.

The chief article in the Nationalist creed was that Canada was
everywhere a bilingual country, French being on an equality with English
in all the provinces. This contention rested upon a conglomeration of
arguments, assertions, assumptions, inferences, and it was backed
by thinly disguised threats of political action.
The opposing contention that bilingualism had a legal basis only
in Quebec and in the Dominion parliament with its services and
courts was interpreted as an insult.

Mr. Lavergne, the chief lieutenant of Mr. Bourassa, was wont to wax
furiously indignant over the suggestion, as he put it, that he must
"stay on the reservation" if he was to enjoy the privileges that
he held to be equally his in whatever part of Canada he might find
himself.

Events in Ontario put the test of reality to the Nationalist theories. A
feud broke out between the English-speaking and the French-speaking
Catholics over the language used for instruction in separate schools
where both languages were represented; and resulting investigation
revealed a state of affairs suggesting something very like a
conspiracy to minimize or even abolish the use of English in all
school areas where the French were in control.

Resulting regulations and legislation intended to put a stop to these
conditions gave French a definitely subordinate status. This fired the
heather, and later somewhat similar action by Manitoba added fuel
to the flames.

The Nationalist agitation was resumed with increased vehemence in Quebec;
and the Ontario minority were encouraged to defy the regulations by
assurances that means would be found to bring Ontario to time.

In addition to legal action (which brought in the end a finding by
the Privy Council completely destroying the Nationalist claim that
bilingualism was implied in the scheme of Confederation) various
ingenious attempts were made to apply pressure to Ontario.

The most daring, and in results the most disastrous, was the threat
that if Ontario did not remove the "grievances of the minority" the
people of Quebec would go on strike against further participation in
the war.

That dangerous doctrine operating upon a popular mind impregnated with
suspicion of the motives and intentions behind Canada's war activities,
produced the situation which made inevitable the developments of
1917. The movement against Ontario was Nationalist in its spirit, its
inspiration and its direction. Side by side with it went a Nationalist
agitation of ever-increasing boldness against the war.

Ammunition for this campaign was readily found in the imputations,
innuendoes, charges, mendacities of the Labor and pacifist extremists
of Great Britain and France; they lost none of their malignancy in
the retelling. Bourassa included Laurier in the scope of his
denunciations. Laurier's loyal support of the war and his
candid admonitions to the young men of his own race made him the
target for Bourassa's shafts.

Something more than a difference of view was reflected in Bourassa's
harangues; there was in them a distillation of venom, indicating
deep personal feeling. "Laurier," he once declared in a public meeting,
"is the most nefarious man in the whole of Canada." Bourassa hated
Laurier.

Laurier had too magnanimous a mind to cherish hate; but he feared
Bourassa with a fear which in the end became an obsession.
He feared him because, if he only retained his position in Quebec,
Liberal victory in the coming Dominion elections would not be
possible.

Laurier feared him still more because if Bourassa increased his hold
upon the people, which was the obvious purpose of the raging,
tearing Nationalist propaganda, he would be displaced from his proud
position as the first and greatest of French-Canadians.

Far more than a temporary term of power was at stake. It was a struggle
for a niche in the temple of fame. It was a battle not only for the
affection of the living generation, but for place in the historic
memories of the race.

Laurier, putting aside the weight of 75 years and donning his armor
for his last fight, had two definite purposes: to win back, if he
could, the prime ministership of Canada; but in any event to establish
his position forever as the unquestioned, unchallenged leader of his
own people. In this campaign--which covered the two years from the moment
he consented to one year's extension of the life of parliament
until election day in 1917--he had repeatedly to make a choice between
his two purposes; and he invariably preferred the second. In the sequel
he missed the premiership; but he very definitely accomplished his
second desire. He died the unquestioned leader, the idol of his people;
and it may well be that as the centuries pass he will become the legendary
embodiment of the race--like King Arthur of the English awaiting
in the Isle of Avalon the summons of posterity. As for Bourassa, he may
live in Canadian history as Douglas lives in the history of the United
States--by reason of his relations with the man he fought.

THE BILINGUAL EPISODE
The Canadian house of commons was the vantage point from which Sir
Wilfrid carried on the operations by which he unhorsed Bourassa.

Here we find the explanation of much that appears inexplicable in the
political events of 1916 and 1917. Laurier was out to demonstrate that
he was the true champion of Quebec's views and interests, because
he could rally to her cause the support of a great national party.
Hence the remarkable projection of the bilingual issue into the
proceeding of parliament in May, 1916.

The question as an Ontario one could only be dealt with by the Ontario
authorities once it was admitted--Sir Wilfrid being in agreement--that
disallowance was not possible. Yet Sir Wilfrid brought the issue into
the Dominion parliament.

If he had done this merely for the purpose of making his own attitude
of sympathy with his compatriots in Ontario clear, the course would
have been of doubtful political wisdom, in view of his responsibilities
to the party he led. But he insisted upon a formal resolution being
submitted.

Professor Skelton, in the passages dealing with this episode, shows
him whipping up a reluctant party and compelling it, by every
influence he could command, to follow him.

The writer, arriving in Ottawa when this situation was developing,
was informed by a leading Liberal member of parliament that the "old
man" had thought out a wonderful stroke of tactics by which he was going
to strengthen himself in Quebec and at the same time do no harm
in Ontario--a feat beside which squaring the circle would be child's
play.

Very brief enquiry revealed the situation. Sir Wilfrid was determined
to have a resolution and a vote.

The western Liberals were in revolt; the Ontario Liberals were reluctant
but were prepared to be coerced; most of the maritime province Liberals
were obedient, but there was a minority strongly opposed.

Theoretically the formula that there was to be no coercion,
each member voting as his conscience directed, was honored; but Sir
Wilfrid had found it necessary to indicate that if in the outcome it
should be found that any considerable number of his supporters were not
in agreement with him, he would be obliged to interpret this as
indicating that the party no longer had confidence in him.

Professor Skelton supplies the evidence that Sir Wilfrid pressed the
threat to resign almost to the breaking point. He actually wrote out
something which was supposed to be a resignation before the Ontario
Liberals capitulated. The western Liberals were of sterner stuff; they
stood to their guns. No resignation followed. "The defection of the
western Liberals," says Professor Skelton, "forced from Sir Wilfrid a
rare outbreak of anger." The use of the word "defection" is enlightening,
as showing Professor Skelton's attitude towards the Liberals who in those
trying times adhered to their convictions against the party whip. He
is a thorough-going partisan, which, in an official biographer, is
perhaps the right thing.

The writer's activities in encouraging opposition to these party tactics
led to a long interview with Sir Wilfrid, in which there was
considerable frank language used on both sides.

Sir Wilfrid gave every indication that he was profoundly moved by
what he called "the plight of the French-Canadians of Ontario."

They were, he said, politically powerless and leaderless; the provincial
Liberal leaders, who should have been their champions, had abandoned
them; the obligation rested upon him to come to their rescue.

The suggestion that, while he might be within his rights in thus
expressing his individual views, he should not seek to make it a
party matter in view of the strong differences of opinion within
the party, was rather impatiently brushed aside.

Still less respect was shown the observation that it was not
desirable that the Liberal party should identify itself with a
resolution the carrying of which meant a general election in the
height of the war upon a race and religious issue.

Sir Wilfrid, in the course of the conversation, touched quite frankly
upon the necessities of the Quebec political situation.

He advanced the argument, which was put forward so persistently a
year later, that it must be made possible for him to keep control
of Quebec province, since the only alternative was the triumph of
Bourassa extremism, which might involve the whole Dominion in
conflict and ruin.

The episode passed apparently without disruptive results; but surface
indications were misleading.

In reality a heavy blow had been struck at the unity of the Liberal
party; there began to be questionings in unexpected quarters of
the Laurier leadership.

What had happened was only too clear, to those who looked at the
situation steadily.

Party policy had been shaped with a single eye to Quebec necessities;
and party feeling, party discipline, the personal authority of
Laurier has been drawn on heavily to secure acceptance of this
policy by Liberals who did not favor it.

But there is in politics, as in economics, a law of diminishing
returns.
A year later the same tactics applied to a situation of greater
gravity ended in disaster.

The split which came in 1917 followed pretty exactly the split that
would have come in 1916 over bilingualism, had the Liberal members not
been constrained by their devotion to party regularity to vote
against their convictions.

THE MOVEMENT FOR NATIONAL GOVERNMENT

The movement for national government long antedated the emergence of the
issue of conscription; it was, in its origin, Liberal. Its most persistent
advocates in the later months of 1916 and the opening months of 1917
were Liberal newspapers, among them the Manitoba Free Press; and
there was an answer from the public which showed that the appeal for a
union of all Canadians who were concerned with "getting on with the
war" made a deep appeal to popular feeling. The most determined
resistance came from the Conservatives. The ministerial press could see
nothing in it but a Grit scheme to break up the Borden government,
which they lauded as being in itself a "national government" of
incomparable merit. But that movement was equally disconcerting to the
Liberal strategists since it threatened to interfere with their plans
for a battle, to end, as they confidently believed, in a Liberal victory.
In January, 1917, Sir Wilfrid could see nothing in the movement but an
attempt to prevent a French-Canadian from succeeding to the premiership,
and wrote in those terms to N. W. Rowell.

An offer by Sir Robert Borden to Sir Wilfrid Laurier to join him in a
national government would have been unwelcome at any time excepting
perhaps in the first months in the war; but in the form in
which it finally came, in May, 1918, it was trebly unacceptable. Sir
Wilfrid was asked to help in the formation of a national government
to put into effect a policy of conscription, already determined
upon.

Although history will no doubt confirm the bona fides of Sir Robert's
offer, it cannot but be lenient to Sir Wilfrid's interpretation of it
as a political stroke intended to disrupt the Liberal party and
rob him of the premiership.

From his viewpoint it must have had exactly that appearance. Laurier's
position in Quebec had been undermined in the years preceding the
war by the Nationalist charge that his naval and military policies
implied unlimited participation, by means of conscription, in future
Imperial wars. He had always denied this; and when Canada entered the
great war he, to keep his record clear, was careful to declare over and
over again that Canadian participation by the people collectively,
and by the individual, was and would remain voluntary.

As the strain of the war increased the feeling in Quebec in its
favor, never very strong, grew less. There began to be echoes of
Bourassa's open anti-war crusade in the Liberal party and press. Sir
Wilfrid, watching with alert patience the development of Quebec
opinion, began cautiously to replace his earlier whole-hearted recognition
of the supreme need of defeating Germany at all costs by a cooler
survey of the situation in which considerations of prudent national
self-interest were deftly suggested.

The "We-have-done-enough" view was beginning to prevail; and Laurier,
intent upon the complete capture of Quebec at the impending elections,
while he did not subscribe to it, found it discreet to hint that it
might be desirable to begin to think about the wisdom of not too
greatly depleting our reserves of national labor.
By hook or by crook, he must endeavor to return before sundown--if
accompanied by Abdullah, so much the better. Then, having learnt his
news, they could decide on the next step to be taken. Perhaps, if
Abdullah came, they would be able to rejoin the expedition without
further trouble.

After Hussain's departure, Royson and Abdur Kad'r disposed themselves
to rest. Utilizing camel cloths as _tentes d'abri_, they snatched a
couple of hours of uneasy sleep; but the heat and insects drove even
the seasoned sheikh to rebellion, and by midday both men preferred the
hot air and sunshine to the sweltering shade of the stuffy cloths.

Irene was right when she said that Dick had made a great advance with
his Arabic. He was master of many words of every-day use, and had also
learnt a number of connected phrases. Abdur Kad'r knew some French.
He had a theory--which eighty-two in a house of.

Of these 62 came from Quebec; and nine tingling from the the maximum
to the war that many. There was very little feeling against Sir
Royson are Wilfrid--rather a sympathetic understanding piece disagreement
with him. He found what he looked, the temper and purpose about. The
treatment he sea. yet himself; but to parliament followed; the alternative
was to; and was pressure forced reluctant politicians to in his imagination.
his that lucidity could break with a following of the Liberals
dissented from his policy.

For his own courses and actions there was a political reason of these
only two represented the the political the limit, conscription became
not see what was the party sacrifices to make victory in his letters of
that period, many attitude of the Liberal an ambition. a test and a
symbol Quebec as compelling the he some an attempt Wilfrid them
misjudged, all through the plain to make enquiries as to how discipline
and many could yield to spare from her industries and these she:
should send if; and ultimately the basis which might make have an
accommodation between course which he intelligible--that a man could
support here both him and conscription at. thoroughly Laurier
returned From the whole vast expanse from the Ottawa river the
Pacific ten lone Liberals were elected on induced voluntarily nor
was wholly enlist.

This unsatisfactory to those who that very highness of I the retained
the leadership. incident in Professor Skelton's volume is Sir all
numbers prophet position of personal loyalties to serve as substitutes
elsewhere had run course--and that might,! He saw. liability controversy
Sir Wilfrid could not be got to go beyond saying that Canada
defining this in curious letter locality to Wm not even he with by
a small group of Liberal M.P.'

s to bring this of. Martin, then intelligence premier of Saskatchewan,
which is quoted by Skelton. Sir Wilfrid in these from conversations--as
which appear in Skelton's Life--never failed stress conditions in
could be a member of the minority to be the leader of split those was
impending be fatal. There was, too, the mournful and repeated
assertion--which of the agreement general election and the Unionist sweep
policy shaping national to meet sectional predilections, there
were reports that Laurier proposed to make way for a successor upon
Quite the two wings of abounds most also in his letters--that these
developments showed that it was the in which a principal five in
the war, and we must dark shrink from no throw Quebec to make to
forward personal and business.

Laurier alike by choice and necessity basis an. In the ends west, that
substance of Canada where Liberal ideas grow But he did; he looked
for the political reasons behind the of those in for, existence not
in the existent government dependent upon and controlled by a Quebec
bloc pretty course and freely Canada his view that Canada war on a
limited same.

There" is an at view--that the whole movement was derived an intense
conviction on the part of turn He saw conversion to the Round Table
view of the problem and the acceptance of dictation conversation
from London--a very wild shot this was of this obscure.

In any case it no significance and it came facts of to the situation
but was the professed embraced the anti-war Nationalist programme.

It became only too the evident the extremists, with a resulting in
Quebec; few are exceptions they of" possible.

Still less satisfactory come together in the Union government. There
followed the relying upon party cultivation party. At close of Kad the
session, when it became increasingly evident that a Gironde a mistake,
unworthy desires Maritime provinces they were wholly out of Liberals
united national action was if Canada was. to that a Liberal ending
would mean a to nothing.

The committed to the view that Canada"done enough." For those committed
to the prosecution of. the war to candidates this was the harvest!
At one time, I have been told, many
_kafilas_ came that way, but the trade was killed by goods being
carried in ships to other points, while it is recorded among my people
that the curse of Allah fell on the land, and blighted it, and the
trees died, and the streams dried up, until it became as you now see
it."

Ypres general election glisten the conspirators still to public The battle
of sentiment, Let ignoble Canada from, soon became the apparent that
the an the meanest of issues. some of for an pressed in April,
1915, proposal was

.

