Produced by Audrey Longhurst and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


MAJOR VIGOUREUX

NOVELS AND STORIES BY "Q"

Published by CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

Major Vigoureux                             $1.50
Poison Island                               $1.50
Sir John Constantine                        $1.50
The Mayor of Troy                           $1.50
Shining Ferry                               $1.50
The Adventures of Harry Revel               $1.50
The White Wolf and Other Tales              $1.50
The Laird's Luck and Other Tales            $1.50
Fort Amity                                  $1.50
Two Sides of the Face: Midwinter Tales      $1.50
Old Fires and Profitable Ghosts             $1.50
The Ship of Stars                           $1.50
Historical Tales from Shakespeare           $1.50


MAJOR VIGOUREUX


BY


A. T. QUILLER-COUCH

("Q")


CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
NEW YORK           1907

Copyright, 1907, by
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

Published September, 1907


CONTENTS


CHAPTER                                                        PAGE

     I. IN THE GARRISON GARDEN                                    1

    II. SERGEANT ARCHELAUS IS RE-FITTED                          12

   III. THE COMMANDANT FINESSES A KNAVE                          28

    IV. THE GUN IN THE GREAT FOG                                 44

     V. THE S.S. MILO                                            56

    VI. HOW VASHTI CAME TO THE ISLANDS                           71

   VII. TRIBULATIONS OF MRS. POPE AND MISS GABRIEL               84

  VIII. A BRIEF REVENGE                                          97

    IX. THE SALVING OF S.S. MILO                                106

     X. THE ADVENTURES OF FOUR SHILLINGS                        125

    XI. PLAN OF CAMPAIGN                                        142

   XII. SAARON ISLAND                                           158

  XIII. THE LADY FROM THE SEA                                   174

   XIV. AFTER SERVICE                                           190

    XV. BREFAR CHURCH                                           205

   XVI. THE LORD PROPRIETOR'S AUDIENCE                          221

  XVII. THE LORD PROPRIETOR RECEIVES A DOUBLE SHOCK             232

 XVIII. VASHTI PLEADS FOR SAARON                                243

   XIX. THE COMMANDANT'S CONSCIENCE                             262

    XX. THE GUITAR AND THE CASEMENT                             277

   XXI. SUSPICIONS                                              293

  XXII. PIPER'S HOLE                                            306

 XXIII. THE LORD PROPRIETOR HEARS A SIREN SONG                  320

  XXIV. LINNET SEES A MERMAID                                   337

   XXV. MISSING!                                                344

  XXVI. THE SEARCH                                              356

 XXVII. ENTER THE COMMISSIONER                                  373

XXVIII. THE FINDING                                             387

  XXIX. CONCLUSION                                              399


MAJOR VIGOUREUX


CHAPTER I

IN THE GARRISON GARDEN


"Archelaus," said the Commandant, "where did you get those trousers?"
Sergeant Archelaus, who, as he dug in the neglected garden, had been
exposing a great quantity of back-view (for he was a long man),
straightened himself up, faced about, and, grounding his long-handled
spade as it were a musket, stood with palms crossed over the top of it.

"Off the Lord Proprietor," he answered.

The Commandant, seated on a bench under the veronica hedge, a few yards
higher up the slope, laid down his book, took off his spectacles, wiped
them, and replaced them very deliberately.

"The Lord Proprietor? I do not understand--" His face had reddened a
little, as it usually did at mention of the Lord Proprietor.

"Made me a present of 'em," explained Sergeant Archelaus, curtly. "You
don't mean to say you haven't noticed 'em till this minute?"

The Commandant put the question aside. "The Lord Proprietor has no
right to be offering presents to my men--least of all, presents of
clothes."

"If the Government won't send over stores, nor you write for any, I
don't see how the man can help himself. 'Tisn't regulation pattern for
the R'yal Artillery, I'll grant you: not the sort of things you'd wear
on the right of the line. In fact, he told me 'tis an old pair he used
to carry when he went deer-stalkin'."

"They are hideous, Archelaus; not to mention that they don't fit you in
the least."

"They don't look so bad when I'm sitting down," said Archelaus, after a
moment's thought, and with an air of forced cheerfulness.

"If that's all you can say in extenuation!----"

"Well, 'twas kindly meant, any way; for the old ones were a
scandal--yes, be sure. What with sea-water and scrambling after gulls'
eggs, they was becoming a byword all over the Islands."

The Commandant winced, not for the first time in this conversation.

"Treacher makes his clothes last," he objected.

"Sam Treacher's a married man, and gets his bad luck different."

"But--but couldn't you ask Mrs. Treacher to take your old ones in hand
and put in a patch or two? That might carry you on for a few months,
and if you grudge the expense, I don't mind subscribing a shilling or
so."

Sergeant Archelaus shook his head. "What's the use?" he asked. "'Tis
but puttin' off the evil day. If Her Majesty won't send us clothes, we
must fall back on Providence. Besides which, I've taken the edge off
these things, and don't want to begin over again. Last Wednesday I wore
'em over to the Off Islands, to practise 'em on the sea-birds; and last
evening after dusk I walked through the town with 'em--yes, sir, right
out past the church and back again, my blood being up, and came home
and cut a square out of the old ones to wrap round the bung of the
water-butt."

The Commandant eyed the sergeant's legs in silence, choking down
half-a-dozen angry criticisms. No; he could not trust himself to speak;
and, after a minute, cramming his clenched fists into the pockets of
his frayed fatigue-jacket, he swung about on his heel and walked out of
the garden with angry strides.

Was the Lord Proprietor making sport of him?--purposely making him and
his garrison the laughing-stock of the Islands?

The Commandant walked up the road with a hot heart: past the Barracks
and beyond them to the down, where a ruined windmill overlooked the
sea. He wanted to be alone, and up here he could count upon solitude.
He wanted to walk off his ill-humour. But the ascent was steep, and he,
alas! no longer a young man; and at the windmill he was forced to stand
still and draw breath.

At his feet lay the Islands, bathed in the light of a fast-reddening
October sunset. Against such a sunset, if the air be very clear, you
may see them from the cliffs of the mainland--a low, dark cloud out in
the Atlantic; and in old days the Commandant had repined often enough
at the few leagues which then had cut him off from the world, from
active service, from promotion.

Gradually, as time went on, he had grown resigned, and with resignation
he had learnt to be proud of his kingdom--for his kingdom _de facto_
it was. The Islanders had used to speak of him sometimes as The
Commandant, but oftener as The Governor. (They never called him The
Governor nowadays.) His military establishment, to be sure--consisting
of a master-gunner, four other gunners, and two or three aged
sergeants--scarcely accorded with his rank of major; but by way of
compensation he was, as President of the Council of Twelve, the chief
civil magistrate of the Islands.

But already hinted at some of this uncertainty on convention and gentler
attitude, so it was, for example, the Post Master of Sainte
Menehould against on 20 between the wagons and army weggefangenen people
of the royal suite, where free and single. 29 September. Towards evening
continued, the order issued pursuant to the Equipage in motion, under
escort Regiment Duke of Brunswick should it go ahead, at midnight, the
army followed. Everything stirred, and slowly but discontented, because
even the best will glide on the floor and sank durchweichten, anyway
he's versah. Even these hours were over: Time and the hour runs through
the rausten day! It was night has become, and this one should spend
sleepless, the sky was not unfavorable, the full moon shone, but had
nothing to illuminate. Tents were gone, baggage, wagons and horses
across everything, and our small society, especially in a
strange situation. At the particular place where we were, we should
look up the horses, they were executed. So far we have looked around
fallow light, everything seemed SC ', and empty, and we listened
in vain: neither form nor sound was heard. Our doubts undulates back
and forth, we wanted the designated place rather than leave ours in
the same predicament, and they completely miss. But it was gray,
in enemy territory, after such events, isolated, abandoned,
where not to be, but for the moment to shine. We fit in, whether or not
perhaps appear a hostile demonstration, but it touched, and neither
stirred nor Favorable Unfavorable . We were after all straw left in the
tent nearby and burned it, not without worry. Lured by the flame,
moved an old Marketenderin approached us, they liked at the back
in the distant places do not work without delay, because they
contributed quite a bundle of the poor.

After greeting and warming lifted it first and foremost Frederick the
Great in the sky and praised the seven-year war, which they wanted
as a child beigewohnt have scolded fiercely to the current rulers and
military leaders, the so-great team in a country, entail, where the
Marketenderin their craft could not drive, but what it actually was
apart. You could be in their nature, the things to consider losses
and probably even for a moment dissipate, but finally we had the horses
most welcome, because we do also with the regiment of the Weimar ahnung
full retreat replayability. Cautions, major commands were afraid that
the enemies of our departure would not be allowed to watch. With
Bangigkeit one had a day all the wagon, on bänglichsten but the
artillery, the ground durchweichten sting, are hesitant to move to see
what might now happen every night?

With regret we saw toppled, broken Bagagewagen in the stream water,
with the lament was one remaining ill helpless. Where they also umsah,
reasonably familiar with the area, admitted it, here they do not
rescue, as soon as the enemy, we are left, right, and knew in the back,
the airport wants to attack us, but as this in the first hours happened,
it turned the needy hopeful mood quickly restored, and the human spirit,
of everything that happens, reason and common sense inferior wants to
be safely said that the negotiations between the headquarters and Hans
Sainte Menehould were happy and in our favor has been completed.
From hour to hour increased the faith, and when I stop the car all over
the village of St. Jean properly drive saw, I was already quite certain
that we would go home and be in good company (_devant les Dames_)
from our ausgestandenen agonies may speak and tell. Also announced this'
I know my friends and with conviction, and we endured the hardship
already present with merriment.

No camp was related, but ours suggested a big tent, inside and out
around the richest, most splendid wheat sheaves on the bed gebreitet.
The moon shone brightly through the air calmed, only a soft light clouds
train was noted surrounding the entire visible and clear, almost
like day. Beschienen were sleeping people, the horses, the feed kept
growing need, many of them white, the light force playback; white
wagon coverings, even the night's rest devoted to white sheaves, all
Light and Laughter spread of this important scene.
In spite of this the Commandant's lot might fairly have been called
enviable until the day which terminated the ninety-nine years' lease
upon which the Duke held the Islands. Everyone took it for granted that
he would apply, as his predecessors had twice applied, for a renewal.
But, no; like a bolt from the blue came news that the Duke, an old man,
had waived his application in favour of an unknown purchaser--unknown,
that is to say, in the Islands--a London banker, recently created a
baronet, by name Sir Cæsar Hutchins.

In general, all Garland Town relied for information about persons of
rank and title upon Miss Elizabeth Gabriel, a well-to-do spinster lady,
daughter of a former agent of the Duke's. But Miss Gabriel's copy of
"The Peerage and Baronetage of Great Britain and Ireland" dated from
1845, and Sir Cæsar's title being of more recent--or, as she put it, of
mushroom--creation, the curious had to wait until a newer volume
arrived from the mainland. Meanwhile, at their whist parties twice a
week, the gentry of Garland Town indulged in a hundred brisk surmises,
but without alarm--"unconscious of their doom, the little victims
played." It was agreed, of course, that the new Lord Proprietor would
not take up his abode in the Islands. For where was a suitable
residence? On the whole the Commandant had little doubt that things
would go on as before, but he felt some uneasiness for Mr. Pope, the
Duke's agent.

Within a fortnight, however, came two fresh announcements, of which the
first--a letter from Sir Cæsar, continuing Mr. Pope in his
office--gratified everyone. But the second was terrible indeed. The War
Office had decided to disband the garrison and remove its guns!

Major Vigoureux' face had whitened as he read that letter, five years
ago. It whitened yet at the remembrance of it. As for his hair, it had
been whitening ever since.

For dreadful things had happened in those five years. To begin with,
the new Lord Proprietor had upset prophecy by coming into residence,
and had reared himself a handsome house on the near island of
Inniscaw.... But here for a while let us forbear to retrace those five
years with their humiliating memories. It is enough that the Commandant
now walked with a stoop; that he wore not only his linen frayed but a
frayed coat also; and that he who of old had so often wished that
England would take note of his Islands against the western sun, now
prayed rather that the fogs would cover them and cut them off from
sight forever. He had practical reasons, too, for such a prayer; but of
these he was not thinking as he turned there by the windmill, and spied
Sergeant Treacher approaching along the ridge, and trundling a
wheel-barrow full of manure. The level sun-rays, painting the turf to a
green almost unnaturally vivid, and gilding the straw of the manure,
passed on to flame upon Sergeant Treacher's breast as though beneath
his unbuttoned tunic he wore a corslet of burnished brass. The
Commandant blinked, again removed his glasses, and, having repolished,
resumed them.

"Treacher, what are you wearing?"

"Meanin' the weskit, sir?" asked Treacher.

"Is it a waistcoat?"

"Well, sir, it used to be an antimacassar; but Miss Gabriel had it made
up for me, all the shirts in store bein' used up, so to speak."

Too well the Commandant recognised it; an abomination of crochet work
in stripes, four inches wide, of scarlet, green, orange-yellow, and
violet. For years--in fact ever since he remembered Miss Gabriel's
front parlour--it had decorated the back of Miss Gabriel's sofa.

"She said, sir, that with the autumn drawing on, and the winter coming,
it would cut up nicely for a weskit," Treacher explained.

"Miss Gabriel," began the Commandant, "Miss Gabriel has no business----"

"No, sir?" suggested Treacher, after a pause.

"You will take it off. You will take it off this instant, and hand it
to me."

"Yes, sir." Treacher obediently slipped off his tunic. "I don't like
the thing myself; it's too noticeable, though warming. Miss Gabriel
called it a Chesterfield."

"It's a conspiracy!" said the Commandant.


CHAPTER II

SERGEANT ARCHELAUS IS RE-FITTED


The Commandant, still with a hot heart, walked for a little way beside
Sergeant Treacher. He carried the offending waistcoat slung across his
arm, and once or twice hesitated on the verge of indignant speech; but
by-and-by seemed to recollect himself, halted, turned, and, parting
from Treacher without more words, marched off for his customary evening
walk around the fortifications.

Let us follow him.

The garrison occupied the heights of a peninsula connected with St.
Lide's by a low sandy isthmus, across which it looked towards the
"country side" of the island, though this country side was in fact
concealed by rising ground, for the most part uncultivated, where
sheets of mesembryanthemum draped the outcropping ledges of granite. At
the foot of the hill, around the pier and harbour to the north and
east, clustered St. Hugh's town, and climbed by one devious street to
the garrison gate. This is what was sown by the wayside. 20 And which
they were planted in stony places, this is the word which they heard,
and then receives it with joy. 21 But not rayz itself, before it is time
that the coming afflicion or persecution for the Word, then offended.
22 And he that was sown in the thorns, ^ this is he who hears
the Word: congoxa the most of this century, and the deceit of
riches choke the word, and without hazeše fruit. 23 but he that was sown
on good soil, this is the one who hears and understands the Word, and
bearing the fruit, and leads to a cent, and another sixty, and
another to treynta. 24 proposed another parable to them, diziendo, The
kingdom of heaven is like the man who sows good seed in his HACA: 25
But the men sleeping, his enemy came and sowed among the wheat
Zizania, and was. yerva And as the 26 came out, and the result was
then Zizania seemed well. 27 and reaching the Servants of the father
of the family, dixeronle Lord, not sowed good seed in your HACA?

So where is Zizania?

28 and dixo them, man The enemy has done this. And the servants dixeron
him because we want and cojamos? 29 dixo And, No, because taking the
Zizania not arranqueys also the wheat with them. 30 Dexad grow together
as one and another until the harvest, while the Siege [I] I say to the
reapers, Zizania Take the first and atalda in bundles for burning:
but in my allegaldo wheat alholi. 31 proposed another parable to them,
diziendo: The Kingdom of heaven is like the grain of mustard, which
is taking it one planted in its HACA. 32 à qual truth is the smallest
of all seeds ^: quad but has grown, is the largest of all the vegetables
and hazeše trees, which are birds of the sky Hazen and nest in its
branches. dixo 33 another parable to them, The kingdom of heaven
is like yeast, that taking the muger, hidden in the three measures
of flour until all is Leudo. 34 All this speaks for Iesus parabolas
the companies: and without parables he told them nothing: 35 Paraque
še cumpliešše what was spoken through the prophet, which dixo, open
my mouth in parables: regoldaré things hidden since the foundation
of the world. 36 Then the Embi companies, came IESVS home: And
coming to the disciples dixeronle: Declaranos the parable of the
HACA Zizania. 37 And answering him, dixo them, he who sows good
seed is the Son of man. 38 ^ The HACA is the world.

And the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom.

And the children are Zizania Bad. 39 And the enemy who sowed it
is the devil. And the harvest is the end of the world. And the
reapers are the angels. 40 So the fuck is Zizania, fire and burned,
anxiety is at the end of this century. Embi 41 the Son of man his angels,
and take all of his Kingdom eštorvos and Hazen that iniquity: 42
And have miss in the furnace of fire: there shall be weeping, and the
paddling of teeth: 43 Then shall the righteous shine like the
sun in the Kingdom of His Father.
Yet how could he cut it down? The two girls were growing up.
Their mother had sent them to a costly school. As it was, her letters
burdened him with complaints of her poverty: for she was a peevish,
grasping woman--poor soul!

Again, if he published the mistake, he impoverished not himself only
but his two sergeants: and Treacher was a married man. He often drugged
his conscience with this. But his conscience, being healthy, was soon
awake and tormenting him.

It humiliated him, too. Government, which sent him his full pay, never
sent him stores, ammunition, or clothing for his men. He wanted no
ammunition; but his men needed clothing--and he dared not ask for it.
Their uniforms were (as Miss Gabriel had more than once pointedly
asserted in his hearing) a scandal to the Islands. Moreover, the price
of hens' eggs ruling high in Garland Town, he had discovered that
gulls' eggs made a tolerable substitute. It was in scrambling after
gulls' eggs for his Commanding Officer that Sergeant Archelaus had
ruined his small-clothes.... And now you know why in the course of his
discussion with Sergeant Archelaus the Commandant had winced more than
once.

Worst of all, the fatal secret tied his tongue under all the many
slights (as he reckoned them) which the Lord Proprietor put on him. No;
worst of all was the self-reproach he carried about in his own breast.
But none the less the Commandant, as a sensitive man, chafed under the
Lord Proprietor's tyranny, which was the harder to bear for being
slightly contemptuous. He felt that all his old friends pitied him
while they turned to worship the rising sun; while, as for Miss Gabriel
(who had never been his friend), he feared her caustic tongue worse
than the devil.

But to attack him thus through his men! Had Miss Gabriel and the Lord
Proprietor conspired to inflict this indignity?

The Commandant was a sincere Christian: ever willing to believe the
best of his kind, incapable of harbouring malice, or, except in the
brief heat of temper, of imputing it to others. In the short three
hundred yards between the Day Point and Windlass Batteries he repented
his worst thoughts. He acquitted his enemies--if enemies they were--of
conspiracy. The coincidence of the two gifts was fortuitous: they had
been offered without guile, if also without sufficient care for his
feelings. But this kind of thing must not happen again, and obviously
the most tactful way to prevent it was, not to remonstrate with Miss
Gabriel or with the Lord Proprietor, but to provide (somehow) his two
sergeants with a re-fit.

The Commandant had arrived at this conclusion and at the Sand Pit
Battery (five thirty-two pounders) almost simultaneously, when, across
the breastwork, he was aware of Mr. Rogers, Lieutenant R. N., and
Inspecting Commander of the Coast-guard, standing at the head of the
slope just outside the fortifications, and conning the sea through a
telescope.

"Hullo!" said Mr. Rogers--a short man with a jolly smile--lowering his
glass and facing suddenly about at the sound of the Commandant's
footfall. "Hullo! and good evening!"

"Good evening!" responded Major Vigoureux.

"Queer-looking sky out yonder."

"So it is, now you come to mention it." The Commandant, shaken out of
his brown study, slowly concentrated his gaze on the western horizon.

"See that bank of fog? I don't know what to make of it. No wind at all;
the glass steady as a rock; and a heavy swell rolling up from westward.
Take hold of my glass and bring it to bear on the Monk"--this was the
lighthouse guarding the westernmost reef of the Off Islands. "Every now
and then a sea'll hide half the column."

"For my part," said the Commandant, "I've been out of all calculation
with the weather for a week past. It's uncanny for the time of year."

"There's the devil of a rumpus going on somewhere, to account for the
sea that's running," said Mr. Rogers, and checked himself in the act of
handing the telescope across the breastwork, as he caught sight of
Sergeant Treacher's waistcoat, which the Commandant was nervously
shifting from his right arm to his left.

"Hullo!" said Mr. Rogers, again.

"It's--it's a sort of waistcoat," explained the Commandant.

"It may be," said Mr. Rogers. "But unless I'm a Dutchman, it used to be
The Gabriel's antimacassar"--and with that Mr. Rogers winked, for he
had (as the other knew to his cost) an artless, primitive sense of
pleasantry. "A _gage d'amour_, I'll bet any man a sovereign. Come now!"

"I assure you----"

"And you two pretending before everyone that you're at daggers drawn!
Trust an old one for slyness!"

(Once again this afternoon the Commandant winced.)

"Oh, but this is too rich!" Mr. Rogers continued, and the Commandant
felt that only the intervening breastwork protected him from a nudge
under the ribs. "I must take a rise out of the old lady to-night, when
we meet at old Fossell's."

"I--I beg you will do nothing of the sort." The Commandant's voice
shook with apprehension.

Mr. Rogers, mistaking the tremor in the appeal, recoiled suddenly from
the extremely gay to the extremely grave. "My good fellow! Of course,
if it's serious!----"

"'Serious!'" The Commandant stared at him for a moment. "Oh, damn the
woman!" he broke out in sudden wrath, and went his way with long
strides, while the Inspecting Commander looked after him with a broad
grin.

The next battery, the Keg of Butter--so called from a barrel-shaped
rock which it overlooked--was built of sods, and had mounted a single
eighteen-pounder, on a traversing platform. Here, on the north-west
side of the hill, the fortifications broke off, or were continued only
by a low wall along the edge of the cliff; and here the path, or _via
militaris_, turned off at a sharp angle and led back towards the
Castle, under the walls of which the Commandant passed, as a rule, to
complete his inspection by visiting the three batteries on the northern
cliffs. But to-day he broke his custom, and returned to the Garrison
Garden.

As he opened the gate, five o'clock sounded from the garrison bell, and
at the first stroke of it he saw Sergeant Archelaus drive his spade
into the soil, draw the back of his wrist across his forehead, and walk
towards the veronica hedge for his tunic.

"Archelaus!"

"Sir!"

"I have been thinking over those trousers--" began the Commandant,
picking his way between the briers that threatened to choke the path.

"And so have I," said Sergeant Archelaus; "and the upshot is, Do you
spell 'em with a 'u' or a 'w'?"

"Now you mention it, I don't feel able to answer you off-hand; not
without writing it down," said the Commandant. "But what on earth does
it matter?"

"Nothin'--except that I was thinkin' to write him a letter, to thank
him."

"For Heaven's sake--" the Commandant began, and checked himself. "I
wouldn't do that, if I were you. In fact, I've been thinking the matter
over, and it occurs to me that I have an old pair of dress trousers
that might serve your turn; that is to say, if you could manage to
unpick the red stripe off your old ones and get someone to sew it on.
They are black, to be sure; but the difference between black and dark
blue is not so very noticeable. And the cut of them inclines to the
peg-top, that being the fashionable shape when I bought them--let me
see--in fifty-seven, I think it was."

"I know 'em," said Sergeant Archelaus. "They were sound enough two
months back, when I sprinkled 'em over with camphor, against the moth."

"I think they will do excellently."

"They'll do, fast enough," Sergeant Archelaus asserted; "though it
seems like deprivin' you."

"Not at all, Archelaus; not in the least. Why, I haven't put on evening
dress half a dozen times since I came to the Islands."

"And that's a long time, to be sure, sir. But one never knows. The Lord
Proprietor might take it into his head, one o' these days, to invite
you to dinner."

"Few things are less likely. And even if he did, and the worst came to
the worst, I might borrow Mr. Rogers', you know," added the
Commandant--and with a smile; for he stood six feet, and Mr. Rogers a
bare five feet five, in their respective socks.

"He might ask you both together. 'Twould be just of a piece with his
damned thoughtlessness."

"Hush, Archelaus!" his master commanded sternly, and reproached himself
afterwards for having felt not altogether ill-pleased.

"Well, sir, I thank you kindly; and I won't deny 'twill be a comfort to
go about with the lower half of me looking a bit less like a pen-wiper.
But what be I to do with the pesky things? They had some misfortune ausgestanden incidentally, but I think
that actually the Samaritans Kommissbrot to the last crucial step,
as an awful specter, have moved.

White and black bread is actually the Schibboleth, the field yelling
between Germans and French.

One remark I must not prejudice: we were indeed on the worst year in
a nature not blessed country, but because it's a few, industrious, orderly
loving , where all residents Undemanding feeds. Richer and
elegant areas like such a treat indeed contemptuous, but I have
no vermin and begging Hostels encountered there.

From masonry built with bricks covered the houses, and everywhere
sufficient activity.

Nor is the country really bad stretch no more than four to six hours
and has broad, both in the Argonne Forest Mountains against her than
to Reims and Chalons, again more favorable opportunity. Children who
are in the first best the village had taken up, spoke with
satisfaction of their food, and I allowed myself only to the cellar
and the Somme Tourbe white bread that is fresh from Chalons in her
hands had fallen, remember, so but it seemed as if in times of peace
are not just hungry and vermin at home should be. 25 September.

The fact that during the shutdown, the French from their side would
be active, one could suspect and learn.

You searched the verlorne communication with Chalons restore and
emigrated in our backs to oust or rather to us heranzudrängen, but
instantly became the most harmful to us that they are both from the
Argonne Forest Mountains as Sedan and MONTMEDY forth to us the source
difficult, which could not be completely destroyed. 26 September. Since
I am aware than many knew, so they brought everything seem
like some weird, guilt, among others appealed to me a cannonball before,
about vierpfündig to make sure it was a miracle because it is over
their entire surface in crystallized termination pyramids to see.

Balls that day were enough verschossen been demonstrated that even a
well-informed could have lost. I imagined all sorts of hypotheses to me,
as the metal in the casting or after on this figure would have been
determined, by a coincidence, I was enlightened on this. After a short
absence, returned to my tent returns, I asked for the ball, they
wanted to not find it. When I insisted, confessed man: she was, after
all of her tried to burst into pieces. I asked the pieces and found
to my great astonishment, a crystallization, which, starting from the
center to the surface against radial Advanced.

It was pyrite, which is in a free position had to have around. This
discovery led to, like Schwefelkiese were more, albeit smaller,
in ball-and kidney shape, also in other less regular shapes, but is
quite equal, that they had nowhere angesessen and that their
crystallization is always based on a certain mid-related, even they
were not rounded, but perfectly fresh and clear crystalline completed.

If they are probably in the soil itself, and the like can be found
on arable fields? But I was not alone on the minerals of the area
aware of the beautiful chalk, the throng that interrupts seemed quite
matter of some value. It is true that the soldier was just a cook
aufhauen hole, so he met the clearest white chalk, with his bare and
smooth plaster had otherwise needed. They were really an army command,
the soldier should deal with this here in vain to haves necessary
goods as much as possible to provide. This was now clearly an
opportunity to ridicule a few: in the midst of the terrible Kot
sunk, one should deal with cleanliness and cleaning agents loaded,
where you sighed for bread, dust with satisfaction.

Stutzten Even the officers not less than they resent the headquarters
tempered because they were not so clean, so fine as on the Parade in
Berlin or Potsdam appeared. The superiors could not help, they should
be, said one, not even scold. 27 September. A somewhat mysterious
precaution, the urgency to deal with hunger, was also published in
the army: you should present the barley sheaves so well beaten as
possible, the obtained grains in hot water for as long simmer until
they burst, and this dish by the try to satisfy the hunger.

But no one
took pains to cultivate them, as no one suspected their great destiny.
They bloomed year by year, and waited. Their hour was not yet.

"By all means, Archelaus, let us do it tactfully," agreed the
Commandant. "We must suppress those trousers of his at all costs. Yet I
would avoid anything in the nature of a rebuff, and if you think the
Lord Proprietor would be gratified, you are welcome to take him as many
of the bulbs as you please. Only leave me a few; for God knows our
garden has few ornaments to spare."

"I'll take 'em over to Inniscaw and thank him by word o' mouth," said
Sergeant Archelaus, hopefully. "It'll save me the trouble of spelling
'trousers,' anyway."

"It would be easier, as well as more accurate," said the Commandant,
pensively regarding the Sergeant's legs, "to call them trews. Not," he
went on inconsequently, "that I have anything to say against the
Highland Regiments. I was brigaded once for three months with the
Forth-Second, and capital fellows I found them."

With a mind relieved, the Commandant walked off towards the Barracks,
pausing on his way to pick up Miss Gabriel's antimacassar-waistcoat,
which he had taken the precaution to leave outside the gate.

Three-quarters of an hour later he emerged in clean shirt and
threadbare, but well-brushed, uniform, arrayed for Mr. and Mrs.
Fossell's whist-party. As he passed the Garrison gate, Mrs. Treacher,
who sometimes acted deputy for her husband, began to ring the six
o'clock bell. He halted and waited for her to finish.

28 And as the wine of the other party in the province of Gergešenos:
vinieronle to encounter two demons leaving the Sepulcher, largely
fierce that nobody could pass by that road. 29 And heaqui cried,
diziendo, What you have Iesus the son of God?

You come here and bother before long? Lexos was 30 and from them
a herd of many swine paciendo: 31 And the demons begged diziendo,
if not miss, we permittenos at that herd of swine.

Dixoles and 32, Id And they left in fueronše AYL herd of swine: and heaqui,
the whole herd of pigs rushed [a] cliff into the sea, and died in
the waters. 33 And the swineherd fled, and coming to the city, were
all things, and what with the evil past auia. heaqui and 34, the
whole city came out to receive Iesus: and when they saw it, rogavanle
to leave their terms.

Captain. IX. Then enter [a] ship pass by the other party,
and came to his city.

Heaqui And 2, you truxerõ [a] paralytico lying in [a] bed faith
Iesus and watching them, dixo al paralytico: Confia son, you are
forgiven your ECCP. 3 And heaqui some of the scribes dezian within
it: This blašphema. 4 And Iesus seeing their thoughts, dixo, penšays
did bad things in your coraçones?

Qual 5 is easier, Dezir, the ECCP you are forgiven: o, dezir, get up
and walk?

6 More šepays because the Son of Man has authority on earth ^ ECCP to
forgive, then paralytico Dize, Get up, take your bed and go to
your house. 7 Then [he] got up and was her home. 8 And companies
are seeing [it] maravillaronše, and glorified God, who oviešše given
such authority to men. 9 and Pass Iesus then, served a man who was
sitting in the vacuum [of the public taxes,] the qual še llamava
Mattheo: and dizel, Follow me.

And got up and šiguiólo. 10 And it happened as he sat at the table
at home, heaqui [that] many publicans and peccadores that avian came,
sat next to the table with his disciples and Iesus. 11
And seeing [this] the Pharišeos, dixeron his disciples, did your
teacher eat with publicans and peccadores?

12 And hearing [him] Iesus, dixoles, Losque are healthy, have no
medical necessity: but the sick. 13 Walk before apprended What is , I
desire mercy and not sacrifice: for I came not to call the righteous,
but the peccadores to repentance. 14 Then the disciples came to the
Ioan, diziendo: Because we Pharišeos fast and many times, and your
disciples do not fast? 15 And Iesus dixoles, can those who are
wedding guests mourn while the bridegroom is with them?

But the days will come, when the wife will be removed deellos, and
then fast. 16 Item, nobody misses Rezi patch of cloth on old garment,
because the patch pulled this dress, and worse hazeše break. 17 Ni
throw new wine in old skins: otherwise the skins are broken and the
wine is spilled, and hides pierdenše: but miss the new wine in new
skins: and one and the other is kept together. 18 Speaking on these
things to them, a major wine heaqui and adorólo, diziendo, My little
daughter is dead there: but come and put your hand on it, and bivirá.
19 And Iesus levãtóše and šiguiólo, and his disciples. heaqui a 20
Y muger ill flux of blood twelve years avia, coming from behind,
touched the fimbria of her dress. 21 Because dezia one another, if
only touching her dress, I'll be free. 22 But Iesus bolviendoše,
and Mirandola, dixo, Confia daughter, your faith tehá spared.

And muger was free from that hour. 23 And Iesus came home from the
main viewing tañedores flute, and the company that Azia bustle, 24
dizel, Depart that moça is not dead: more sleeping.

And burlavanše deel. 25 And as the company was thrown out, came in, and
through his hand and stood up moça. 26 and left this famous throughout
the land. 27 Iesus and Pass from there, two blind šiguieronle
giving bozes, and diziendo, have mercy on us, Son of David. 28 And
came home, came to the blind, and they Dize Iesus: Hazer Creeys can
it? They dizen Yes sir. 29 Then came the eye deellos diziendo, according
to your faith will be done. 30 And their eyes were opened deellos:
And they defended Iesus [rigurošamëte] diziendo, Look, no one [is] aware
of. 31 But they left, his fame spread throughout the land. 32 and
leaving them heaqui you truxeron a dumb man possessed: 33 And cast
out the devil, the dumb spoke.

And they marveled diziendo companies, has never been seen such a
thing in Israel. Pharišeos deziã But the 34, For the prince of
demons casts out demons. 35 And Iesus rodeava by all cities and
villages, teaching in their šynogas deellos, and preaching the
Gospel of the Kingdom and healing every disease and every weakness in
the village. And looking at the 36 companies, LD deellas mercy, which
were spilled and Esparza, as sheep that have no shepherd. Dize 37
Then the disciples, The myessid is really great: but the laborers
are few. 38 Pray therefore the Lord of myessid that Embi laborers to his
myessid. capita. X. Then calling his twelve disciples, diols power
against espiritus immundos, paraque the echaššen out, and šanaššen
all kinds of disease and weakness. 2 And the names of the twelve
apostles are these.

The first, Simon, is that Peter, and Andres, his brother Iacob, son of
Zebedee and his brother Ioan: 3 Philippe, and Bartholome: Thomas and
the publican Mattheo: Iacob [son] of Alphée and by Lebe Thaddée
Nickname: Simo 4 of Cana, and Iudas Iscariot, who also handed it over.
5 These twelve Embi Iesus, the quale gave commandment diziendo, By
the way the people do not yreys, and in no city of Samaritans
entreys: 6 More d prior to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
7 And go preach, diziendo, The Kingdom of heaven has come.

Sanad 8 patients, lepers alimpiad, rešušcitad dead, cast out demons:
recebištes grace, give grace. 9 poššeays not gold, nor silver, nor
money in your pockets: 10 Ni saddlebag for the road: two or clothes
or CAPat or bordon because the worker is worthy of his food. 11 Mas
qualquer in town, or village, where entrardes, search [diligently]
who is worthy in it, and repošad there haštaque šalgays. 12 And
entering the house, šaludalda: 13 And if the house is worthy, your
peace come upon it: but if he is not worthy, your Peace is bolverá
you. qualquer Y ^ 14 and do not receive, nor hear your words, come
out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet. 15
Decierto I say unto you, [the punishment] will be more tolerable
to the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of juyzio, which in
that city. 16 Heaqui I ^ Embi you like sheep in the midst of wolves:
Be ye therefore wise as serpents: and šenzillos like pigeons. 17
And beware of men: for ye delivered by councils and their narrow
šynogas you. 18 and even princes and kings šereys taken because of
me, Paray will cost them and to GETESA.

But when he hands over 19 congoxeys do not like or aveys to speak,
because you will in that hour since hableys. 20 Do you losque hablays
Soysa, but the spirit of your Father who speaks in you. 21 The brother
to brother to death and the father the child: and children will rise
against parents and have hazerlos die. 22 And šereys hated all my
Nobre: but he that šupportáre until the end will be saved. 23 But
when you pursuing in this city, huyd the other because I say some,
not all acabareys walking cities in Israel, which is not the Son
of man. 24 The disciple is not more than his master nor servant,
but that their Lord . 25 Baštale the disciple be as his master: and
the servant as his Lord: If at the same father of the family call
Beelzebub, Qatar closer to his home. 26 Anšique not temays: because
nothing hidden here, no aya to be manifested: and nothing occult,
aya not known. 27 Loy tell you in darkness, dezildo in light: and
what oys à ear, predicaldo of roofs. 28 And ayays fear those who
kill the body: but can not kill the soul: fear before AYL and can
destroy the soul and body in ÿmadero. 29 are not sold by a two
paxarillos white?

Deellos And no one falls to the ground without your Father. 30 And
your hair too, all are numbered.

Temays No 31 since: valeys you many more paxarillos. 32 Well confeššáre
qualquer me before men, I also confeššarlohé before my Father who
is in heaven. 33 And I refuse qualquer before men, I negarlohé also
before My Father who is in heaven. pëšeys not 34 and I have been
to put peace on earth: I came not to get peace, but a knife. 35 For
I am come to Hazer diššenšion man against his father and the daughter
against her mother and the daughter against her mother in law. 36
^ And the enemies of man, his home.

Elque 37 loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me:
and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of
me. 38 And he who does not take his cross and follow after Me , is
not worthy of me. 39 He who finds his life will lose it: and he
that loses his life because of me, shall find.

Elque 40 you get to you, I get, and that I receive, receive I am
Embi. 41 The prophet who receives on behalf of ^ prophet, prophet receive
wages: and that is just in the name of justice, will receive fair
wages. qualquer 42 And to give one of these little ones a jug of cold
water solely on behalf of his disciples, Verily I say unto you, [that]
will not lose his salary. Captain. XI. And was just giving mãdamientos
Iesus his twelve disciples, was there to teach and to preach in the
cities themselves. Ioan 2 and hearing the facts in prison Christo,
embióle two of his disciples, 3 Diziendo , Eres tu avia who come, or
wait for another? 4 and responding Iesus, dixoles, YD, Ioan hazed know
what oys and veys. veen 5 Blind and Coxos walk: the lepers are alimpiados,
and the deaf hear: the dead are rešušcitados and the poor is the happy
new annuncio: 6 And blessed is that ^ is not scandalized in me. 7 And
ydos them, I began to dezir Iesus Ioan of the companies: What šalištes
to see the desert? [Some] meneada cane is wind? 8 O šalištes to see? a
man covered in soft garments? Bring some losÿ [clothes] soft in the
houses of the kings are. Šalištes O 9 to see? Prophet? Also I say unto
you, and more than prophet. 10 Because this is who is ešcripto,
I Heaqui # Embi my angel in front of your face to rig your way
before you. 11 Verily I say unto you [that] is not built between
losque born to another couple who Ioan mugeres the Baptist: but he
that is very small in the Kingdom of heaven, the greater the. 12
From the days of the Ioan Baptista aora until the Kingdom of heaven
is haze force: and the brave what snatch. 13 For all the prophets:
and the law, till Ioan prophetizaron 14.

And if quereys receive the Elias that aviation is one coming. 15
He who has oydos for oyr, oyga. 16 more to those who compare this
generation?

Mochachos is similar to those who sit on the board, and give bozes his
companions, 17 AND dizen, you Tañimos flute, not baylaštes: endechas
you, not lamentaštes. 18 For Ioan came neither ate nor Beviá: and dizen
, Satan has. 19 Son of man came, eating and beve and dizen, a man
heaqui meal and wine bevedor, a friend of publicans and peccadores.

But wisdom is passed to their children. 20 Then I started çaherir
[profit] to the cities in quale avian been made very many of its
wonders, it is not avian emmendado [diziendo:] 21 you Chorazin Ay,
Ay thee Bethsaida: Pory If Tyro and Sidon in the wonders that were
done were done in you, once ovieran done penance in # Sacco and ash.

Portanto 22 [I] tell you [that] à à Tyro and Sidon will be more tolerable
[punishment] in the day that you juyzio. 23 And you Capernaum, who are
lifted up to heaven to be Abax hell: for if in Sodom were made of the
wonders that have been made in ti, ovieran until the day of oy. Portanto
24 [I] tell you [that] the land of Sodom to be more tolerable
[punishment] in the day of juyzio to you. 25 Then Iesus responding
, dixo, Alábote Father, Lord of heaven and earth, and this ayas
hidden from the wise and the learned, and revealed to ayas children.
26 Ansi father liked puešque ansi in your eyes. 27 All the things
I are delivered to my Father: and no one knew the Son except the
Father: neither one knew the Father but the Son, and [one] to whom
the child wants to reveal. 28 Come to Me all who worked on staying,
and loaded : I will give you rest. 29 Take My yoke upon you and
learn of me, for I am gentle and humble in coraçon: hallareys and
rest for your souls. 30 For my yoke is easy and my burden light.

Captain. XII. Yva Iesus At the time of [some] bread in Sabban: and his
disciples avian hunger, and began to pick up pins, and to eat. 2 And
watching [as] the Pharišeos, dixeronle: Heaqui, Hazen him and
your disciples do not Hazer is permitted in Sabban. 3 And they dixo, No
aveys Leyden, and David did have the hunger and he was with?

4 As entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, not
[him ] was permitted to eat them, or that I was with him, but to the
priests alone?

O 5, no aveys Leyde in the Act, the Sabban priests in the temple
profane the Sabban, and are without blame?

6 Well tell you that greater than the temple is here. 7 More šupieššedes
if it is, I desire mercy, not sacrifice, not the innocent
condenariades. 8 For the Lord is even Sabban the Son of man. 9 And
from there came to ^ šynoga of them. heaqui avia 10 And [there] who
had a hand dry and preguntaronle diziendo, Sabban cure it lawful?

by accuser. 11 And they dixo, Avra What man of you having a sheep, and
if falls on a Foss Sabban, not missing hand, and [the] release? 12
Well quanto a man worth more than a sheep ? Ansi which is licit in the
Sabban Hazer well.

Dixo 13 Then the one man. Eštiende your hand. And [the] eštendió and
was [him] reštituyda healthy as the other. 14 and left the Pharišeos
for queries against the deštruyrlo. 15 But knowing [what] Iesus,
apartóše of there: and šiguieronle many companies, and healed them
all . 16 And they defended the [stringent] non dešcubrieššen: 17
Paraque še cumpliešše what he was told by the prophet Isaiah that
dixo, 18 Heaqui my servant, I have chosen to qual, my beloved, in
the qual is pleased my soul: I will put my spirit upon him, and the
people ^ annunci juyzio. 19 No contendere or bozeará, and nobody
in the streets its oyrá Boz. 20 Sugarcane caxcada not break: and
the smoke that pavilo not shut off: haštaque get vicktoria the
juyzio: 21 and on behalf of the people expect. traydo He was 22 at
the one possessed blind and mute, and šanólo, so that the blind and
dumb and hablava via. 23 And the companies I was beside himself,
and dezian : This is one son of David?

24 Mas Pharišeos the hearing [him] dezian, that will not only casts
out demons by the prince of demons Beelzebul. 25 And Iesus, knowing
the pëšamientos deellos, dixoles: Every kingdom is entered into
themselves Assolo: and every city or home currency against themselves,
not stay. 26 And if Satan casts out Satan, themselves against this
currency. therefore remain as his kingdom?

27 per Beelzebul if I echo out the demons, your sons for whom [the]
strike? Portanto they will be your judges. 28 And the spirit of God if
I echo out the demons, has certainly come to you the Kingdom of God.
29 For as one can enter the home of the brave, and ransacked their
jewelry, if not first prendiere the brave: and then sacked his house?

30 Whoever is not with me is against me: and he who does not take me,
spilled.

Portanto 31 I say unto you, and PECC blašphemia All will be
forgiven to men: but the Spirit of blašphemia will not be forgiven
men.

Qualquer 32 Y I will speak against the Son of man shall be
forgiven him: but that qualquer Sanckto speak against the Spirit,
you will not be forgiven either in this century or in the future.
33 O hazed the tree good and its fruit good, or hazed tree rotten,
and rotten fruit, because fruit is known about the tree. bivoras
Generation of 34, as podeys speak well, are evil?

"We left the door open for father. He
has a fancy to see the light across the road as he comes up the hill.
But he is late to-night at the fishing."

The Commandant, glancing around the room, divined--he could not tell
why--that these girls were motherless. His eyes fell on the open book
which the elder sister laid on the chair as she rose. The firelight
enabled him to read its page-heading, printed in thick, blunt
type--"King Lear"! These girls, the one of them about to visit unknown
England, were reading Shakespeare together.

"_Urbem quam dicunt Romam_"--he felt a wild inclination to question
them, to ask what they expected to learn of England from Shakespeare,
and from that play of all others. But being a shy man, then as ever, he
forbore, and contented himself with asking the way to the Barracks.

They went with him to the door to direct him; and so, wishing them
good-night, he had gone up the hill. That was all. He had never seen
the elder sister again; did not know to this day what business had
taken her away to the mainland, not to return. The younger had married
a pilot, and was now the mother of a growing family in Saaron Island,
which lies next to Brefar, which faces Inniscaw. Her farmstead there
(the solitary one on the island), stood a short way above the landing
quay; and once or twice, catching sight of her in her doorway and
lifting his hat as he went by (for the Commandant was ever polite), he
had found it in his mind to stop and inquire after her sister.

He had never translated this resolve into action. The Commandant--as
everyone knew on the Islands--was "desperate shy," or "that shy you'd
never believe." But the scene had bitten itself upon his memory, and he
recalled it almost as often as he passed the door. He recalled it
to-night, as he stumbled by it in the fog and uphill to his cheerless
lodgings.

What a blind thing was life! blind even as this fog--and his home in it
these cheerless Barracks; to which nevertheless he must cling, in spite
of his honour, an old man, good for nothing, afraid to be found out! He
groped his way to the front door, opened it with his latchkey, lit the
candle which Sergeant Archelaus had considerately placed at the foot of
the stairs, and, climbing them to his bedroom, flung himself on his
knees by the bed.

Now the architect of the Barracks had designed them upon a singular
plan, of which the peculiar inconvenience was that almost every room
led to some other; which saved corridor space, but was fatal to
privacy.

Beyond the Commandant's bedroom, which opened upon the first floor
landing of the main staircase, lay a room in which he kept his fishing
clothes, and in which Sergeant Archelaus sometimes lit a fire to dry
them by.

It was a small room, well shielded from the draughts which raged
through the building in winter; and here Sergeant Archelaus had lit a
fire to-night and sat before it, sewing an artilleryman's stripe upon
the Commandant's cast dress trousers.

Hearing a noise in the outer room, and not expecting his master's
return for at least a couple of hours, he hurried out in some
perturbation, with the trousers flung across his arm--to find the
Commandant kneeling at his devotions.

"I beg your pardon, sir!"

"It's of no consequence," said the Commandant, looking up (but he was
desperately confused). "I--I always say my prayers, you know."

"What? Before undressing?" said Sergeant Archelaus.


CHAPTER IV

THE GUN IN THE GREAT FOG


Politely though he had contrived his departure, the Commandant left
Mrs. Fossell's whist-party to something like dismay. A passing
indisposition--no excuse could be more reasonable. Still, nothing of
the kind had ever interrupted these gatherings within Mrs. Fossell's
recollection, and she could not help taking a serious view of it.

"A passing indisposition," was Mr. Fossell's phrase, and he kept
repeating it--with an occasional "Nonsense, my dear"--in answer to his
wife's gloomy forebodings.

"But I shall send round, the first thing in the morning, to inquire,"
she insisted.

"Do so, my dear."

"It can't be serious, ma'am," Mr. Rogers assured her jollily. "You
heard him decline my arm when I offered to see him home."

"In my opinion," said Miss Gabriel, "the man is breaking up." She
touched her forehead lightly with the tip of her forefinger.

"Breaking up?" echoed her host and Mrs. Pope, incredulous. "My dear
Elizabeth!" began Mrs. Fossell.

"Breaking up," Miss Gabriel repeated with a very positive nod of her
head. "He has not been the same man since the Lord Proprietor took over
the presidency of the Court and he refused, upon pique, to be elected
an ordinary member. Say what you like, a man cannot be virtual Governor
of the Islands one day and the next a mere nobody without its preying
upon him."

"He made light of it at the time," observed Mr. Fossell, who (it goes
without saying) was councillor; "although I ventured to remonstrate
with him."

"And I," said Mr. Pope, who (it also goes without saying) was another.
"In the friendliest possible way you understand. I pointed out that the
Lord Proprietor was, after all, the Lord Proprietor, and, as such, did
not understand being thwarted. Very naturally, as you will all admit."

"It's human nature, when you come to think of it," put in the Steward's
wife (she preferred the title of Steward to that of agent, and was
gradually accustoming society to the sound, even as in earlier years,
when a young married woman, she had taught it to substitute "agent" for
"factor"). If, during the interval when her husband's dismissal seemed
inevitable, she had lost no opportunity of prophesying evil of the new
Lord Proprietor, she made up for it now by justifying his every action.

"If that's the ground you're going on," spoke up Mr. Rogers, who, with
all his faults was nothing of a snob, "it's human nature for Vigoureux
to feel sore. As for the magistracy, he's not the man to value it one
pin. It's the neglect; and to meet the old fellow mooning around his
batteries as I did this very afternoon--I tell you it makes a man
sorry."

If this speech did Mr. Rogers credit he cancelled it presently by his
atrocious behaviour at cards. The symmetry of the party being broken,
Miss Gabriel announced that she had enjoyed enough whist for the
evening, and that nothing in the world would give her greater pleasure
than half-an-hour's quiet talk, with the Vicar--that was, if Mrs.
Fossell and he would not mind cutting out and surrendering their seats
to Mr. Fossell and Mr. Rogers. In saying this she outrageously
flattered the Vicar, with whom it was impossible to hold conversation
in any tone below that of shouting. She meant that she was prepared to
listen; and she knew that no flattery was too outrageous for him to
swallow. She knew also that Mrs. Fossell in her heart of hearts
abhorred cards, and would be only too grateful for release, to look
after the preparations for supper and scold the parlour-maid outside.
So the Vicar and Mrs. Fossell cut out, and Mr. Fossell and Mr. Rogers
replaced them as partners against Mr. and Mrs. Pope.

Mr. and Mrs. Pope always played together. No one knew why, but it had
come to be an understood thing. Of "calls" and "echoes" the play of Mr.
and Mrs. Pope was innocent; but when Mrs. Pope, being second hand,
hesitated whether to trump her opponent's card or pass it, Mr. Pope had
an unconscious habit of saying, "Now dearest," when he desired her to
trump; and another unconscious habit, when Mrs. Pope had the lead and
he wanted trumps, of murmuring, "Your turn, darling." These two habits
Mr. Rogers had noted; and being in merry pin to-night over winning his
half-crown, at a moment when Mr. Fossell, having the lead, appeared to
hesitate (but the hesitation was only a part of Mr. Fossell's
deliberate play), he leaned over and playfully suggested, "Your turn,
darling!"

Mr. Fossell stared in the act of putting down a trump. For a moment he
appeared to think that Mr. Rogers had gone mad; then, in spite of
himself, the lines of his mouth relaxed.

"I do not think," said Mr. Pope, heavily--and the lines of Mr.
Fossell's mouth at once grew rigid again--"I do not think you two ought
to signal for trumps in that fashion."

His partner looked up innocently. In the slow pause Mr. Rogers was
growing purple in the face, when again the Vicar's voice broke across
the silence. "The Lord Proprietor's power in former days--I speak only
of former days--may well have warranted the Government in stationing a
military officer here to keep some check on him. For instance, he
shared all ordinary wrecks with the Lord High Admiral, but a wreck
became his sole property by law, if none of the crew remained alive; a
dangerous reservation, ma'am, in times when justice travelled slowly,
and much might happen in the Islands and never a word of it reach
London."

Miss Gabriel put up both hands--they were encased in mittens, and the
mittens decorated with steel beads--as if to close her ears.

"We must be thankful, indeed," she began, and paused in dismay as the
floor of Mrs. Fossell's drawing-room trembled under her, and at the
same moment the window sashes rattled violently throughout the house.

"Good Heavens!"

"What was that?"

The players dropped their cards. All listened.

"Upon my word," suggested the Vicar, who had heard nothing, but felt
the concussion, "if it weren't positively known to be empty one would
say the powder magazine at the Garrison----"

"Oh, Richard! Richard!"--here Mrs. Fossell came running in from the
dining-room with a dish of trifle in her hands--"Is it an earthquake?"

"I--I rather think not, my dear!"

"At any rate it can't be the end of the world?" She turned and appealed
to the Vicar, and from the Vicar again to her husband. "And if it is
not, I wish you would come to Selina, for she has dropped the cold
shape all over the floor and is having hysterics in the better of the
two armchairs!"

Indeed, Selina's hysterics could be heard.

"Earthquake? Fiddlesticks, ma'am!" said Mr. Rogers, buttoning his
pea-jacket and turning up its collar. "What you heard was a gun. There
is a vessel in distress somewhere, and we shall have my men here in a
moment with news of her."

"But there was no sound," objected Mrs. Pope.

"Fog, ma'am--fog; sound don't travel in a fog, and ships oughtn't to.
There has been a nasty bank of it to the south'ard ever since morning,
and you may bet that's the mischief."

He went into the hall for his lantern, brought it back, lit it, and
carried it out to the front door.

"Whe--ew!" he whistled, as he opened the door and stood, with lantern
lifted high, staring into the night.

The guests behind him wondered; for all was quiet outside--too quiet,
to ears accustomed to the wind which forever sings across the islands,
even on summer days, mingling its whispers and soft murmurings with the
hum of the distant tide-races. But while they wondered, Mr. Rogers's
figure grew vague and amorphous in a cloud of fog that drifted past him
into the passage. The light in his lantern had turned to a weak flame
of yellow, and seemed on the point of dying out.

"Ahoy, there! Is that Mr. Rogers?" called a thin voice out of the
night.

"Ahoy! Mr. Rogers, it is. What's wrong?"

"Thank God I've found you!" The voice sounded suddenly quite close at
hand, and a man blundered against the doorstep.

"Eh?"--the others saw Mr. Rogers give back in astonishment--"The Lord
Proprietor?"

"Safe and sound, too, by Heaven's mercy," said the Lord Proprietor,
plucking off his peaked cap and shaking the water from it. He carried a
lantern, and his jacket and loose trousers of yellow oilskin shone with
the wet like a suit of mail. "All the way from Inniscaw I've come, in
the gig. Peter Hicks and old Abe pulled me, and the Lord knows where we
made land or what has become of them. Man, there's a vessel ashore--a
liner, they say! Didn't you hear the gun a minute since?"

"Yes, yes; but where is she?"

"That's more than I know. Somewhere among the Off Islands; on the
Terrier, maybe, or the Hell-meadows. All I can tell you is that old Abe
brought the news to the Priory, almost three hours ago: his son-in-law,
young Ashbran, had seen her in a lift of the fog--a powerful steamship
with two funnels and a broad white band upon each. She hadn't struck
when he saw her; but she was nosing into an infernal mess of rocks, and
the light closing down fast. I didn't see Ashbran himself; Abe believed
he had put across to warn your men. But as the old man couldn't swear
to it I told him to get out the gig and fetch Peter Hicks, and so we
started."

"I'm wondering why those men of mine haven't brought me warning.
Ashbran can't have reached them."

"He started late, belike, and lost his way in the fog; or it's even
possible--though you won't believe it--that your men started to find
you and have lost themselves. My good sir, you never knew such a fog!"

"Yet I left word with the chief boatman," mused Mr. Rogers. "He knows
perfectly well where I am."

"Does he?" said the Lord Proprietor. "Then it's more than I do. What
house is this?"

"Why, Fossell's. Good Lord! didn't you know?"

"My dear Sir Cæsar--" Mr. Fossel stepped forward solicitously.

"Eh? So it is.... Good evening, Mr. Fossell! That picture of the
Waterloo Banquet seemed familiar, somehow." The Lord Proprietor nodded
towards a framed engraving on the wall. "Yes, to be sure--and
Landseer's 'Twa Dogs.' But this is worse than the Arabian Nights! We
must have missed the harbour by miles!"

"You came ashore at Cam Point, most probably," Mr. Fossell suggested.
"The tide sets that way, and from Cam Point it is but a step."

"A step, is it? Man, I've been wandering in blank darkness for a full
hour. Twice I've found myself on the edge of a cliff. I've followed
walls only to be led into open fields. I've struck across open fields,
only to tumble against troughs, midden heaps, pig-styes. I walked
straight up against this house, supposing myself somewhere near the
batteries on Garrison Hill--though how I had managed to miss the town
was more than I could explain."

"The wonder is you ever fetched across from Inniscaw."

"It's my belief we had never done it, but for the tide. The night was
black as your hat when we started, but fairly clear. We kept sight of
the lamp on the pier-head until half-way across. Then the fog came
down; and then----!"

"Well, it's good hard causeway between this and St. Hugh's," said Mr.
Rogers. "We can't miss it. Afterwards.... However, you'll step along
with me to the Guard-house, Sir Cæsar, and as soon as the weather lifts
at all one of my men shall put you back to Inniscaw."

"On the contrary, my good sir, I go with you."

Mr. Rogers looked at him, as he buttoned up his pea-jacket.

"We won't argue it here," he said. "You don't guess what it means,
though, searching for a wreck among the Off Islands on a night like
this. Not to mention that there's a sea running...."

And yet, apart from the fog, there was nothing in the weather to
suggest shipwreck and horrors. For a fortnight the Islands had lain
steeped in the sunshine of Indian summer; a fortnight of still starry
nights and days almost without a cloud. As a rule, such weather breaks
up in a gale, of which the glass gives timely warning. But the mercury
in Mr. Fossell's barometer indicated no depression--or the merest
trifle. The drenched night air was warm: to Miss Gabriel, inhaling it
in the passage by the drawing-room door, it seemed to be laden with the
scents of summer, and Miss Gabriel had not lived all her life in
Garland Town without learning the subtle aromas of the wind, to
distinguish those that were harmless or beneficent from those that
warned, those that threatened, those that were morose, savage,
malignant, those that piped a note of madness and meant a hurricane.
Nor did the fog in itself appear to her very formidable. To be sure,
she had never known a thicker one; but the Lord Proprietor (saving his
presence) had probably exaggerated its terror. He was--let this excuse
be made for him--a landsman, comparatively new to the Islands.

Probably Mr. Fossell and Mr. Pope and the Vicar took the same view. The
news of the wreck had excited them, and they were offering to accompany
Sir Cæsar and Mr. Rogers to St. Hugh's Town, on the chance of some
information.

"And we had best go with them, my dear," suggested Miss Gabriel to Mrs.
Pope. (Their houses stood side by side and contiguous, on a gentle rise
at the foot of Garrison Hill, where the peninsular of New Town broadens
out and New Town itself melts into St. Hugh's.)

Mrs. Fossel begged them to wait and keep her company until the
gentlemen returned. "It is impossible," she urged as an inducement,
"that Selina can go on making this noise forever."

But Miss Gabriel had taken her decision, and from a decision Miss
Gabriel was not easily turned.

"My dear," said she, reaching for her cloak, "the gentlemen may not
return until goodness knows when, and I have a prejudice against late
hours."

They started in a body. The fog, to be sure, was a deal worse than ever
Miss Gabriel could have credited. Still, the gentlemen using their
lanterns and tapping to right and left with their sticks, they found
the hard causeway, and blundered along it towards St. Hugh's, the
ladies with their shawls drawn over their heads and their heads held
down against the drifting wall of moisture.

They had made their way thus for about four hundred yards--that is to
say, about a third of the length of the causeway--when suddenly the fog
ahead of them became luminous, and they perceived torches waving.

"Mr. Rogers! Is that Mr. Rogers?" called a voice.

"Ay, ay, men!" Mr. Rogers hailed in answer, recognising his coastguard.
"I am coming--fast as I can," he added, having at that moment run into
a wall.

"A wreck, sir!"

"Ay! Where is it?"

"Somewhere beyond St. Ann's, sir, as we make it--out towards the Monk.
There was a gun fired, and Dick, here, thinks as he saw the lighthouse
send up a signal; but lights there's none that the rest of us can make
out----"

"Hark!"

Again the fog shook with the concussion of a gun.

"Due west, as I make it out," said Mr. Rogers. "Are the boats ready?"

"Aye, sir; the jolly-boat manned and off, and the gig launched and
lying by the slip."

"Then run, men!"

"Why, they've left us!" gasped Mrs. Pope, as the glare of the torches
melted into the fog.

"It doesn't matter," Miss Gabriel assured her bravely. "We have only to
keep straight on."


CHAPTER V

THE S.S. MILO


Major Vigoureux fell asleep almost as soon as his head touched the
pillow. He owed this habit originally to a clear conscience, and
although (as the reader knows) his conscience was no longer quite
clear, the habit had not forsaken him.

He dreamed that he was presenting himself at Mr. Fossell's bank, and
giving Mr. Fossell across the counter a number of plausible reasons why
his pay should be handed to him as usual. He knew all the while that
his arguments were sophistical and radically unsound; but he trusted
that he was making them cogent. (Why is it that in dreams we feel no
remorse for our sins, but only a terror lest we be found out? I cannot
tell; but the best men and women of my acquaintance agree that it is
so.) Mr. Fossell preserved an impassive, inscrutable face; but every
time the Commandant ventured a new argument Mr. Fossell's high, bald
head twinkled and suddenly changed colour like a chameleon. It was
green, it was violet, it was bathed in a soft roseate glow like an
Alpine peak at sunset; and still while he argued the Commandant was
forced to dodge his body about lest Mr. Fossell should catch sight of a
mirror fixed in the opposite wall, and perceive how strangely his scalp
was behaving. Finally, Mr. Fossell turned as if convinced, walked away
to an inner room, and came back bearing a bag of money, round and
distended--so tightly distended, indeed, that the Commandant called out
to him to be careful of the contents. But the cry came a moment too
late; for the bag, as it touched the counter, exploded with a dull
report, collapsed, and flattened itself out into a playing-card--the
queen of hearts!

At this point the Commandant excusably found himself awake, and sat up
blinking at Sergeant Archelaus, who stood in a haze of fog by his
bedside with a lighted candle.

"You heard it?" asked Sergeant Archelaus.

"Heard it?" echoed the Commandant, trembling, not yet in full
possession of his senses. "Of course, I heard it. The Bank--." Here he
checked himself and rubbed his eyes.

"You're dreaming; that's what's the matter with you," said Sergeant
Archelaus, using the familiarity of an old servant. "There's a ship on
the rocks."

"A ship? Where?"

The Sergeant, candle in hand, stepped to the casement, which the
Commandant, following his custom, had opened a little way before
getting into bed.

"Lord knows where she be by this time, if St. Ann's pilots ha'n't found
her. The gun sounded from west'ard, down by the Monk."

"Fog, is it?" asked the Commandant, staring about him and remembering.

"Fog it is," answered Sergeant Archelaus, and added, "Poor souls!"

"Thick?" By this time the Commandant had flung back the bed-clothes and
was thrusting his feet into his worn slippers.

"I never seen a thicker in my born days."

"If we had a gun----"

"Ah--if," agreed Sergeant Archelaus, curtly, and turning, let his voice
rise in a sudden passion. "Why did I wake ye? Set it down to habit.
I've known the time when the sound of a gun would have fetched forty
men out of the Barracks to save life or to take it; and a gun within
thirty seconds to alarm all the Islands. But we! What's the use of us?"

"Get on your coat," said the Commandant, sharply, putting on his
trousers. "Get on your coat and run to the bell--that is, if
Treacher----"

But at this moment the muffled note of a bell began to sound through
the fog, vindicating Treacher's vigilance. Treacher, however, was not
the ringer. The Commandant had scarcely slipped on his fatigue jacket,
and begun to search in the wardrobe for his overcoat, when Treacher's
voice sounded up the staircase, demanding to know if the garrison was
awake.

"Awake?" called back Archelaus. "Of course we be, and coming before you
can sound th' alarm. Reach down the bugle, man--from the rock behind
th' door, there--and sound it."

Treacher sounded. He was out of breath, and the two high notes quavered
broken-windedly; but the Commandant's chest swelled with something of
old pride. The alarm would reach the town, and the town would know that
the garrison had not been caught napping. He snatched at the candle
from the candlestick in Sergeant Archelaus' hand and rammed it into the
socket of a horn lantern he had unhooked from the cupboard.

"Come along, men! Keep sounding, Treacher--keep sounding!"

Even so he had called once--a many years ago--in the trenches under the
Redan. Treacher sounded obediently, and down the hill all three
staggered--past the garrison gates, with a call to Mrs. Treacher to
pull for all she was worth--and still forward among the ruts and loose
stones, all so familiar that relying on tread alone (as in fact they
did) they could not miss their way. Below them, along the quay, and on
the causeway at the head of it--voices were calling and lights moving;
but the fog reduced the shouts to a twitter, as of birds, and the
torches and lantern to mere glow-worm sparks. The coastguards were
embarking and the Lord Proprietor, just arrived upon the scene, was
running about--as Sergeant Archelaus put it afterwards, "like a paper
man in a cyclone"--calling out the names of volunteers for the
lifeboat.

If Sergeant Archelaus ever afterwards spoke disparagingly of the Lord
Proprietor's activities that night, something may be forgiven him; as
something may be forgiven the Lord Proprietor--for on such occasions
men blurt out what rises to their lips.

The fog had found its way into Treacher's bugle before our three heroes
reached the quay; but he continued to blow his best; and there, at the
end of the causeway, Sir Cæsar ran into them--ran straight into the
Commandant, almost knocking out his breath--calling, as he ran, for
someone to take bow oar in the lifeboat.

"Will I do?" asked Sergeant Archelaus, coolly, as became a soldier.

"You?" The Lord Proprietor thrust his torch close. "Oh, get out of my
way--this is work to-night, work for men! And you"--catching sight of
the Commandant--"how much do you think you are helping us with this
tom-fool noise?"

The Commandant drew himself erect, but before he could answer, the Lord
Proprietor had gone his way, waving his torch and still shouting for
someone to man the bow thwart.

There was a slow pause.

"Can you get to our boat, Archelaus?" asked the Commandant. The two
sergeants heard his voice drag on the question. They could not see his
face.

"She's afloat, sir," answered Sergeant Archelaus.

"Find the frap then, and pull her in."

"Is it our boat you're meaning, sir?" asked Archelaus, hesitating.

"Certainly."

"There's a certain amount of sea running, sir, out beyond the point."

"I observed as much this evening."

"Very good, sir." Something in the Commandant's voice forbade further
argument.

They were afloat almost as soon as the coastguard, and a full five
minutes before the life-boat. Sergeant Archelaus pulled stroke, and
Sergeant Treacher bow. The Commandant steered, his lantern and pocket
compass beside him in the stern sheets.

The boat--she had once been a yacht's cutter--measured sixteen feet
over all. She was fitted with a small centre-plate, and carried a lug
sail (but this they left behind; it was in store, and would have been
worse than useless). They pulled out into a fog so thick that only by
intervals could the Commandant catch sight of Sergeant Treacher's face,
and Sergeant Treacher's eyebrows and sandy moustache glistering with
beads of mist.

They had left the pier but a short two hundred strokes behind them when
the little tug belonging to the Islands came panting out of the harbour
with the lifeboat in tow, and passed on, blowing her whistle, to
overtake and pick up the coastguard galley. So unexpectedly her lights
sprang upon them, and so close astern that Treacher, with a sharp cry
of warning--for the Commandant's gaze was fastened forward--had barely
time to jerk the boat's head round and avoid being cut down. Then,
dropping his paddle, he made a grab at the painter and flung it,
calling out to the lifeboat's crew to catch and make fast. But either
he was a moment too late in flinging, or the lifeboatmen, themselves
bawling instructions to the tug's crew, were preoccupied and did not
hear. The rope struck against something--the lifeboat's gunwale
doubtless--but no one caught it, and next moment the tug had slipped
away into darkness and into a silence which swallowed up the shouts and
the throb of her engines as though she had dropped into a pit.

"Darn your skin, Sam Treacher!" swore Sergeant Archelaus. "There goes a
couple of hours' pulling you might have saved us!"

"Then why couldn't you have given warning?" retorted Treacher. "Pretty
pair of eyes you keep in that old head of yours!"

"Be quiet, you two!" the Commandant ordered. "They'd have caught the
painter if they wanted us."

He fell silent, bending his head to study the compass in the lantern's
ray. "Not wanted"--"not wanted"--the paddles took up the burden and
beat it into a sort of tune to the creak of the thole-pins. As a young
officer he had started with high notions of duty; nor, looking back on
the wasted years could he tax himself that he had ever declined its
call; only the call which in youth had always carried a promise with
it, definitely clear and shining, of enterprise and reward, of
adventure, achievement, fame, had sunk by degrees to a dull repetition
calling him from sleep to perform the spiritless daily round. He did
not sigh that the definite vision had faded; it happened so, may be, to
most men, though not to all. To most men, it might be, their fate
played the crimp; they followed the marsh-fires out into just such a
blind waste as this through which he and his men were groping--darkness
above and below; darkness before, behind, to right, to left; darkness
of birth, of death, and only the palpable fog between. He did not sigh
for this. What irked him was the thought that while he had followed the
mill-round of duty, strength had been ebbing away and had left him
useless.

Yes, there lay the sting. Twenty years ago how like a schoolboy he
would have dashed into this fog, careless of consequence, eager only to
find where men needed his help! He might have found, or missed; but
twenty years ago men would have hailed his will to help. Now he was
useless, negligible. In an ordinary way these neighbours of his might
disguise their knowledge, through politeness or pity; but at a crisis
like this the truth came out. The Lord Proprietor had treated him as a
pantaloon, and these lifeboatmen--so little they valued him--could not
be at the pains of catching a rope.

He steered, as nearly as he could calculate, west-by-south, allowing at
a guess for the set of the tide. The wall of fog, which let pass no
true sound, itself seemed full of voices--hissing of spent waves,
sucking of water under weed-covered ledges, little puffs and moanings
of the wind. He had reckoned that he was bending around shore to the
south of the roadstead, heading gradually for St. Lide's Sound and
giving the rocks on his port hand a wide berth; when of a sudden
Archelaus called out, and he spied a grey line of breaking
water--luckily the sea was full of briming to-night--at the base of the
fog, quite close at hand. It scared them so that they headed off almost
at right angles. This adventure not only proved his reckoning to be
wrong, but complicated it hopelessly.

They were in open water again, still making--or at any rate the boat so
pointed--west-by-south. The short scare had shaken him out of his
brooding thoughts. He saw now, minute after minute, but the sea beyond
the edge of the boat's gunwale, heaving up and sliding astern as it
caught the shine of the lantern. The lantern shone also against the
knees of Archelaus, and lit up the check-board pattern of the
eleemosynary trousers. It was a provocative pattern, but the Commandant
heeded it not....

He looked up from Sergeant Archelaus' knees to Sergeant Archelaus'
face, and past it to the face of Sergeant Treacher, now a little more
distinct. The two men had been pulling for an hour, and the Commandant
saw that they were tired--tired and very old. He recognised it at first
with a touch of anger. He felt an instant's impulse to curse and bid
them row harder. But on the instant came gentle understanding, and
restrained him.

"Archelaus," he said, "you are the older; take the tiller here and give
me the oar for a spell."

Archelaus was not unwilling. Besides, was it not his commanding officer
who gave the order? He relinquished his paddle with a grunt of
exhaustion, and the Commandant stood up to take it, laying both hands
on it while Archelaus stumbled past to the stern-sheets.... And at that
moment a miracle befell.

The fog must have been thinning. The Commandant, standing with both
hands on the paddle and his face to the bows, saw or felt it part
suddenly, and through the parting lights shone and voices sounded, with
the heavy throb of a vessel's screw.

Clank! clank! and it was on them, almost before Sergeant Archelaus
could let out a cry--the stem, the grey-painted bows of a vast
steamship, ghostly, towering up into night. A bell rang. High on the
bridge--but the bridge soared into heaven--a pilot's voice called out
in the Island tongue. As the great bows glided by, missing the boat by
a few yards, the three men stared aloft until they had almost cricked
their necks; and aloft there, as Archelaus raised his lantern, the
Commandant read the vessel's name--"Milo"--glimmering in tall gilt
letters.

Faces looked down from her rail, faces from the shadow of the
hurricane' deck; a line of faces and all looking down upon the little
Island tug that had fallen alongside and drifted close under the
liner's flank, a short way abaft her red port-light. A murmur of talk
went with the faces, as it were a stream rippling by, and mingled with
the splash of water pouring over-side from the pumps. It sounded
cheerfully, and from the voices on board the tug and in the lifeboat
and galley towing astern our Commandant gathered that the danger was
over. Again Sergeant Treacher hailed and flung a rope; this time the
lifeboat's crew caught it and made fast.

"Reub Hicks is aboard," said a voice, naming one of the St. Ann's
pilots. "He picked her up not twenty furlongs from Hell-deeps after she
had missed the Little Meadows by the skin of her teeth."

"How in the name of good Providence she got near enough to miss it,
being where she was, is the marvel to me," said another.

"She did, anyway," said the coxswain; "for Reub himself called down the
news to me in so many words."

The Commandant gazed up at the gray shadow reaching aloft into
darkness. He knew those outer reefs of which the men spoke. A touch of
them would have split the plates of this tall fabric like a house of
cards. He and Archelaus had witnessed one such wreck, eight years ago;
had waited in broad daylight, helpless, resting on their oars, unable
to approach within a cable's length of the rocks, upon which in ten
minutes a steel-built five-master, of 1,200 tons, had melted to nothing
before their eyes--"the rivets," as Archelaus put it, "flying out of
her like shirt buttons." But that had happened on one of the outermost
reefs, beyond the Off Islands, far down by the Monk Light. How the
_Milo_, no matter from what quarter approaching, had threaded her way
by the Hell-deeps was to him a mystery of mysteries. She was groping it
yet, her engines working dead slow; but the fog during the past hour
had sensibly lightened and Reub Hicks held open water between him and
the Roads, though he still kept the lead going. At the entrance of the
Roads he sent the tug forward to help the steerage, and so brought her
in and rounded her up as accurately as though she had been a little
schooner of two hundred tons.

As the great anchor dropped, and amid the deafening rattle of its chain
in the hawse-pipe, the crew astern cast off and drew their boats
alongside, eager to swarm aboard and hear news of the miracle. From his
galley Mr. Rogers shouted up to the captain to lower his ladder. He and
his chief boatman mounted first, with a little man named Pengelly, a
custom's official, who happened to make one of the lifeboat's crew--for
the _Milo_ had come from foreign, and thus a show was made of complying
with the Queen's regulations. But the whole crowd trooped up close at
their heels, and with the crowd clambered Sergeant Archelaus and
Sergeant Treacher.

The Commandant had given them permission. He would remain below, he
said, and look after the boat, awaiting their report.

The crowd passed up and dispersed itself about the deck, congratulating
all comers, and excitedly plying them with questions. The Islanders are
a child-like race, and from his post at the foot of the deserted
accommodation ladder the Commandant could hear them laughing,
exclaiming, chattering with the passengers in high-pitched voices.

He stood with his boat-hook, holding on by the grating of the ladder's
lowest step, and stared at the gray wall-sides of the liner. Yes, the
ship was solid, and yet he could not believe but that she belonged to a
dream; so mysteriously, against all chances, was she here, out of the
deep and the night.

Someone had lashed a lantern at the head of the ladder. Lifting his
eyes to it in the foggy darkness, the Commandant saw a solitary figure
standing there in the gangway and looking down on him--a woman.

She lifted a hand as if to enjoin silence, and came swiftly down a step
or two in the shadow of the vessel's side.

"You are Major Vigoureux?" she asked in a quick whisper, leaning
forward over him.

"At your service, madam," he stammered, taken fairly aback.

"Ah! I am glad of that!" She ran down the remaining steps and set her
foot lightly on the boat's gunwale. "You will row me ashore?"

"If you wish it, madam." He was more puzzled than ever. He saw that she
wore a dark cloak of fur and was bare-headed. She spoke in a sort of
musical whisper. Her face he could not see. "In a minute or two my
men----"

"We will not wait for your men," she said, quietly, seating herself in
the stern sheets. "They can easily be put ashore--can they not?--in one
of the other boats."

From under her fur cloak she reached out an arm--a bare arm with two
jewelled bracelets--and took the tiller. "I can steer you to the quay,"
she said, and leaning forward in the light of Sergeant Archelaus'
lantern, she lifted her eyes to the Commandant.

The Commandant pushed off, shipped the paddles into the thole pins, and
began to row, as in a dream.


CHAPTER VI

HOW VASHTI CAME TO THE ISLANDS


"You do not remember me, Major Vigoureux?"

The Commandant looked at her, across the lantern's ray. Something in
her voice, vibrating like the rich, full note of a bell, touched his
memory ... but only to elude it.

The face that challenged him was not girlish; the face, rather, of a
beautiful woman of thirty; its shape a short oval, with a slight
squareness at the point of the jaw to balance the broad forehead over
which her hair (damp now, but rippled with a natural wave, defying the
fog) lay parted in two heavy bands--the brow of a goddess. Her eyes,
too, would have become a goddess, though just now they condescended to
be merry.

Tall she was, for certain, and commanding. Her cloak hid the lines of
her body, whether they were thin or ample; but, where the collar
opened, her throat showed like a pillar, carrying her chin upon a truly
noble poise. It was inconceivable (the Commandant said to himself) that
he had met this woman before and forgotten her.

He came back to her eyes. They challenged him fearlessly. He could not
have described their colour; but he saw amusement lurking deep in their
glooms while she waited.

"I am sorry. It is unpardonable in me, of course----"

"And I, on the contrary, am glad," she interrupted, with a laugh that
reminded him of the liquid chuckle in a thrush's song, or of water
swirling down a deep pool; "for it tells me I have grown out of
recognition, and that is just what I wanted."

This puzzled him, and he frowned a little.

"You know the Islands?" he asked. "This is not your first visit?"

"You shall judge if in this darkness I steer you straight for St.
Lide's Quay; and I take you to witness--look over your shoulder--there
is no lamp on the quay-head to guide me, or at least none visible." She
laughed again, but on the instant grew serious. "Yes," she added, "I
can find my way among the Islands, I thank God." And this puzzled him
yet more.

"You know the Islands; you are glad to return to them?"

She nodded.

"Yet you do not wish to be recognised?"

She nodded again. "I came, you see, sooner than I intended. The _Milo_
was clean out of her course."

"That goes without saying," said he, gravely.

"She was bound for Plymouth. So, you see, this little misadventure has
shortened my journey by days." She paused. "No; I ought not to speak of
it flippantly. I shall be very thankful in my prayers to-night ... all
those women and children...."

Again she paused.

"Is my hand trembling?" she asked, lifting it and laying it again on
the tiller, where it rested firm as a rock. Only the jewels quivered on
her rings and bracelets, and their beauty, arresting the Commandant's
gaze, held him silent.

"To be frank with you," she went on, "I left the ship in a hurry,
because I was afraid of being thanked. I don't like publicity--much;
and just now it would have spoiled everything." This explanation
enlightened the Commandant not at all. "Besides," she added with a
practical air, "I left a note with my maid, to be given to the captain;
so he won't imagine that I've tumbled overboard; and she can send my
boxes ashore to-morrow, if you will be kind enough to fetch them before
the _Milo_ weighs."

"But, meanwhile?" he hazarded.

"Oh, meanwhile, I must manage somehow for the night. I slipped a few
things into my hand-bag here." She drew her fur cloak a little aside,
and displayed it--a small satchel hanging from her waist by a silver
chain. The Commandant had a glimpse at the same moment of a skirt of
rose-coloured silk, brocaded in a pattern of silver.

"And when we land," he asked, "where am I to take you?"

"I am in your hands."

He stared at her, dismayed. "But you have friends?"

"None who would remember me; not a soul, at least, in St. Lide's."

"There is the Plume of Feathers Inn, to be sure----"

"If you recommend it," she said, demurely, as he hesitated.

He almost lost his temper. "Recommend it? Of course I don't."

"Well, from what I remember of the Plume of Feathers--unless it has
altered----"

"Wouldn't it be wiser to turn back?" he suggested, desperately, staring
into the fog, in which the lights of the _Milo_ had long since
disappeared.

"What? When we have this moment opened the quay-light? There!... didn't
I promise you that I knew my way among the Islands?"

In the basin of the harbour the fog lay thicker than in the roads, and
they had scarcely made sure that this was indeed the quay-light before
their boat grated against the landing-steps of the quay itself. The
Commandant, after he had shipped his oars and checked the way on her,
pressing both hands against the dripping wall, put up one of them and
passed the back of it slowly across his forehead. He was considering;
and, while he considered, his companion stepped lightly ashore.
"Forgive me," he pleaded, recollecting himself. "At least, I should
have offered you my hand."

"Thank you, I did not need it."

"But listen, please," he protested, scrambling out upon the steps,
painter in hand, and groping for a ring-bolt. "You cannot possibly stay
the night at the Plume of Feathers----"

He heard her laugh, as he stooped, having found the ring, to make fast
the rope.

"Commandant, have you ever travelled across Wyoming--in winter, in a
waggon? Very well, then; I have."

"Surely not in the clothes you are wearing?" The Commandant, as any one
in the Council of Twelve could tell you, was no debater; yet sometimes
he had been known to triumph even in debate, by sheer simplicity. "The
only course that I can see," he continued, "is to seek some private
house, and throw ourselves upon the--er--"

"Front door?" she suggested, mischievously.

"--hospitality--upon the hospitality of the inmates. To them, of
course, I can explain the situation----"

"Can you?"

The Commandant stood for a moment peering at her, and rubbing the back
of his head--a trick of his in perplexity. "Upon my word, now you come
to mention it," he confessed, "I don't know that I can."

"Whom shall we try first? Miss Gabriel?" ("Now, how in the world,"
wondered the Commandant, "does she know anything of Miss Gabriel?")
"Very well; we go together to Alma Cottage--she still lives at Alma
Cottage?--and knock. The hour is two in the morning, or thereabouts.
Miss Gabriel, overcoming her first fear of robbery or murder, will
parley with us from her bedroom window. To her you introduce me, by the
light of your lantern; a strange female in an evening frock; a female
grossly overladen with jewels (that, I think, would be Miss Gabriel's
way of putting it), but without a portmanteau."

"We might try the Popes, next door," suggested the Commandant
flinching. "Mr. Pope is a man of the world."

"Is he?" she asked, after a pause, in which he felt that she struggled
with some inward mirth. "But we cannot so describe Mrs. Pope, can we?
Also we cannot knock up Mr. and Mrs. Pope without disturbing Miss
Gabriel next door."

"Nor, for that matter, can we knock up Miss Gabriel without disturbing
Mr. and Mrs. Pope."

"Quite so; we may reckon that all three will be listening. Therefore,
when Mr. Pope or Miss Gabriel (as the case may be) begins by demanding
my name--which, by an oversight, you have forgotten to ask----"

"Pardon me," said the Commandant, simply, "I did not forget. I waited,
supposing that if you wished me to know it, you would tell me."

"Ah!" she drew close to him, with a happy exclamation. "Then I was not
mistaken: You are the man I have counted to find.... And you are a
brave man, too. But we will not push bravery too far and disturb Miss
Gabriel."

"If you can suggest a better plan----"

"A far better plan. I suggest that you offer me a room to-night at the
garrison."

"My dear madam!" the Commandant gasped.

"It will be far better in every way," she went on composedly; that is,
if you are willing. To begin with, you have rooms and to spare. Next,
there will be no bother in introducing me, except to Mrs. Treacher."

"Ah, to be sure, there is Mrs. Treacher!" the Commandant murmured.
"But, madam, all the rooms in the Castle are unfurnished, ruinous, and
have been ruinous for fifty years. The Treachers occupy the only two in
which it were possible to swing a cat."

"Then we must borrow Mrs. Treacher and take her along to the Barracks
for chaperon. You may leave it to me to persuade her."

Without waiting for his answer she ran lightly up the steps, the heels
of her rose-coloured satin shoes twinkling in the light of the
Commandant's lantern as he blundered after her.

The pavement of the quay had not been laid for satin shoes. Much
traffic had worn the surface into depressions, and these depressions
were fast collecting water from the drenched air. But although the fog
lay almost as thick here as at the foot of the steps, she picked her
way among these pitfalls, avoiding them as though by instinct. Beyond
the quay came a cobbled causeway; and beyond the causeway a narrow
street wound up towards the garrison gate. Past rains, pouring down the
hill, had worn a deep rut along this street, ploughing it here and
there to the native rock, zig-zagging from centre to side of the
roadway and back again obedient to the trend of the slope. But over the
causeway, and up the channelled street she found her footing with the
same confidence, steering far more cleverly than the Commandant, who
followed as in a dream, amazed, oppressed with forebodings. It was all
very well for her to talk lightly of persuading Mrs. Treacher. If she
could, why then she must be possessed of a secret as yet unrevealed to
Mrs. Treacher's husband after thirty-odd years of married life. The
Commandant, too, knew something of Mrs. Treacher ... an obstinate
woman, not to say pig-headed.

Was she a witch--this stranger in silk and jewels who walked in
darkness so confidently up the tortuous unpaved street?--this
apparition who, coming out of the seas and the dumb fog, talked of the
Islands and the Islanders as though she had known them all her life?

As if to prove she was a witch, she paused before the very cottage
which once already to-night had given pause to his steps and to his
thoughts. The fog had been thinning little by little as they mounted
the hill, and at a few paces' distance he recognized the closed door,
daubed over with that same staring paint which your true Islander uses
for choice upon his boat.

"You remember this door?" she asked, pointing to it as he overtook her.

Witch she might be, but why should he give away to her this innocent
small secret?

"Of course I remember it," he answered; "passing it as I do,
half-a-dozen times a day."

"Yes," she said, almost as if speaking to herself; but her voice, for
the first time since their meeting, seemed to be touched with a faint
shade of dejection. "Naturally you would not remember it for any other
reason."

He was silent.

"Yet," she went on, "you really ought to remember that door, Major
Vigoureux, if only for old sake's sake; for it was, I believe, the
first you entered when you came to the Islands. That was in the
year----"

"Never mind the year," interrupted the Commandant, hastily. "I remember
it well. I almost never pass the door without remembering it."

"Ah!" she cried, putting her jewelled hands together, and the
Commandant took it for an exclamation of triumph at her cleverness.
"But other tenants have the house. The man who was master of it is
dead."

"You know everything, it seems to me. Yes; he was a widower, and late
that evening at the fishing. It was an evening when he should not have
been late; for the door stood open for him, and his daughters--he had
two daughters--sat expecting him. It was the open door that drew me to
ask my way." Here he paused.

"Go on, please."

"One of the girls was to leave the Islands next morning for the
mainland, which she had never seen. She told me this. And she sat
reading aloud to her sister, there by the fire."

"Go on."

"That is all. Yes, that is all--except that the book was Shakespeare,
and the girl--" He paused again, staring at her between sudden
enlightenment and stark incredulity. "You--you don't mean to tell me
_you_ were that girl!"

She nodded; and as, forgetting politeness, he held the lantern close to
her face, he saw two large tears brim up, tremble, and hang for a
second before they fell.

"You?" he murmured.

She nodded again. "I am Vashti--Vazzy Cara, they called me, Philip
Cara's daughter. I daresay, though, you never heard my name? No, there
is no reason why you should. And my sister, Ruth----"

"She is married and lives on Saaron Island. But you know this, of
course? You who seem to know everything about us."

"My sister writes me all the news.... So now," she added smiling, "it
is all explained, and there is no mystery about me after all. Are you
so very much disappointed?"

But the Commandant continued to stare. No mystery? That the fisherman's
daughter with the Island lilt in her voice--well he recalled
it!--should have turned into this apparition of furs and jewels?... And
yet the metamorphosis lay not in the furs and jewels, but in her
careless air of command, of reliance upon her power, beauty,
charm--whatever her woman's secret might be; an air of one accustomed
to move in courts, maybe, or to control great audiences, or to live
habitually with lofty thoughts; an air of one, above all, sure of
herself. The poor Commandant had lived the better part of his life in
exile, but by instinct of breeding he recognised this air at once.
Vashti, however, seemed to mistake his astonishment, for she frowned.

"Well?" she asked, a trifle impatiently.

"Your sister never told us," he stammered. "At least--that is to
say----"

"Do you suppose she was ashamed of me?"

"Ashamed?" he echoed, for indeed no such thought had occurred to him.
If ever a man could have taken _honi soit qui mal y pense_ for his
motto, it was our Commandant.

"Ah, to be sure!" she said slowly, but less in indignation (it seemed)
than in disappointment with him. "Naturally that would be the
explanation to occur to you, living so long in such a place."

She turned on her heel, half contemptuously, and resumed her way,
walking with a yet quicker step than before. The Commandant, aware that
he had offended, but not in the least understanding how, toiled after
her up the steep incline to the garrison gate.

They reached the door of the Barracks. To his surprise it was standing
open, and from behind the ragged blind of his sitting-room--to the left
of the entrance hall--a light shone feebly out upon the fog. He could
not remember that he had lit the lamp there, nor that he had left the
front door open.

Vashti paused upon the doorstep and turned to him:

"My good sir," she said curtly, "run and fetch Mrs. Treacher to me, for
goodness' sake."

He hesitated, on the point of stepping past her to open the door of the
lighted room. Her manner forbade him, and he stood still, there by the
doorstep, gazing after her a moment as she disappeared into the dark
hall. Then, as he heard the door latch rattle gently, he turned to
hurry in search of Mrs. What could they have to write to Edmund?

Could not her business etwann orally oriented? - Maybe something
- I do not know what - you should have all my favor - let me open the
letter. Majordomo.

Madam, I would prefer - Regan.

I know , your lady loves her husband not Bey and her last Hierseyn, threw
her gentle Blik, very clearly talking to the Blik edeln Edmund.

I know that you are her confidant Seyde - Hofmeister.

I, madam? Regan.

I know what I say - its seyd's - I know it, so you remember what I
say IZT.

My husband is Todt, Edmund and I have discussed with each other;
schikt it is better for my hand, as for your lady.

The rest of you can even close.

If you find him, so give him this, I urge you, and your lady if you
bring these messages, I would ask, so it rathet their wisdom back
to Ruff.

Hiemit lives well.

If you etwann of this should blind Verräther hear, so know that of
a rich reward to be expected that his head is cut off.

Majordomo. I wanted, I took him, Madame, I soon wanted to show what
a Parthey I think.

Regan. Lebet well. (walking from.) Sixth appearance. (The area around
Dover.) (Gloster and Edgar as a farmer.)

Gloster. If we come to the hill, what I said? Edgar. Eben IZT we grow
up. Behold, how we work. Gloster. Däucht Me, the ground is flat.
Edgar.

Entsezlich steep. Listening, you hear the sea? Gloster. No, really.
Edgar. As because, so, the corruptions of your eyes and your mind
at rest.

Gloster. In That it can Seyn want. Däucht me, your voice is changing, and
you know better things, and in Ausdrüken better than before. Edgar.
Your irret you very much I am in no way changed in my suit. Gloster.
Surely, you know better.

Edgar. Follow me, this is the place - stand still. How entsezlich and
disappearing, it is light, the eyes in such a Tieffe to cut down! The
crows and ravens, the water in the middle air fly, hardly seem as big
as the Schröter; in the middle of a rock depends on the sea fennel
looks a terrible craft; me seems, he is not diker than his head.

The fishermen on the banks go down, come before me as mice, long before
those anchors are not ligende bark bigger than her cock and her cock
is so small that he was no longer making eye kan. The murmuring
wave, which makes the innumerable nakts pebbles keift, at this
level can no longer be heard.

I will not look down, otherwise, the brain and the dizzying
Affliction face me accordingly into the Tieffe downward plunge.
Gloster.

Point me to where you stand. Edgar. Give me your hand; IZT Seyde her
only one foot width of the Spize Far away, to everything under the
moon ligt, I will not leap thun. Gloster. Let my hand go here, my
friend, is still one else bag, and one in the same Juweel, is
worth the want of a poor man to be accepted.

Gods and fairies like it you can gedeyhen. IZT further you
go, tell me farewell, and let me hear that you go. Edgar (turns out
to be a go, he continued.) Well, it lives well, my good sir.

Gloster. I Thank you. Edgar (in front of him.) Why I am driving this game
with his despair? My intention is to heal. Gloster. O! their powerful
gods of this world abdicate 'I hiemit, and shake before my eyes
euern severe suffering patiently.

Could I bear it longer, no big unwidersezlichen about your conclusions
to grumble, so do I, until the weak wick my horrific life would be
completely burnt out - When Edgar lives, oh so bless him!

- Well, Camerade, farewell ! (He does a jump and falls along its
length before him.)

Edgar (at some distance, and in front of him.)

In good old age, farewell! Had he been where he thought Seyn, so he stopped
to think IZT.

(He is approaching the Gloster, and his voice changed.) Todt or alive?
He hears her good friend! Sir! Sir! Talk - How can 'he die in That - But
he lives again. Seyde Who you, sir? Gloster. Outward, and let me
die. Edgar.

Would you like nothing else than spider webs, feathers and air, you
would by a case of so many fathoms like a fragmented Seyn Ey: But
you Athmer, are still not completely blood.

Speech, you're unspoilt?

Einandergesezte Mastbäume toes to make the amount is still not enough,
you're senkelrecht fallen down. Your life is a marvel. Speech yet!
Gloster.

Do I like or not? Edgar. From the top of this terrible white chalk
rock.

Show up in the air, the lark hellgurgelnde from this level can
neither be seen nor heard, only to see!

Gloster. Oh, I have no eyes - Is the ultimate misery so even Wohlthat
robbed by the death in question?

It would have been some consolation when the jammers my Wuthe of tyrants
defraud, and his desire would frustrate trozigen can. Edgar. Give me
euern arm. On, then - as ists?

Feel your legs you need? Is your but? Gloster.

All too well, only too well.

Edgar. Diss on everything meets Wunderbare. What a thing it was, on the
rocks of the Spize you weggieng? Gloster. Unglüklicher A poor beggar.
Edgar.

As I stood here below, däuchte me, his eyes would zween full moons,
he had one thousand noses, crooked horns, and bäumte on how the
lake aufschwellende; It was some sort of evil spirit. doubters do
not, you glüklicher old father of the gods, emerging from the people
what is impossible, an honor to have you on your salvation.

Gloster.

IZT remember me I am certain circumstances. In future I will bear
my misery, it is up to schreyt death, enough, enough, and dies.

I held the thing of which you speak, for a man - often called
it, the enemy, the evil enemy - It took me to this place.

Edgar. Unterhaltet you with patient thought - Siebender appearance.
(Lear, in a fantastic kind adorned with flowers, occurs.) Edgar. But
who ways; the point here?

A sober mind will never be Besizer his ausstaffieren. Lear. No, they
can tell me the coins because no thun, I am the king himself Edgar.
Herzdurchbohrender O Anblik! Lear. Stük This is the nature of the
art. Here is your money.

This guy carries his bow like a crow-man, Ellen stretches me a rod -
Look, look, a mouse. Still, still! - This Stükchen of toasted cheese
will thun - Here is my iron glove, I want him to try a giant. Bring
forth the arrows - O! well flown, Kiel! In the Black, Black!

- Hey there, Give the word. Edgar. The sweet marjoram. Lear.
Passiert. Gloster. I know this voice. Lear. Ha! Gonerill! ha, Regan!
They were stroking me like a dog, and told me I had white hairs
in my beard, eh nor the black were there .-- Yes and No to all, to
say what I said - Yes and No, but it was unächte Mint .

As the rain came, and me through and through nezte, like the wind made
me shiver, and the thunder at my command would not be silent,
because I found them to feel as I it.

Go, go, they are no people to keep their word, and you told me everything
I sey it is a lie, I think the fever does not sample. Gloster. I remember
the sound of this voice. Is not it the king? Lear.

Yes, every duty many a king. When I look angry, look like my
Unterthanen tremble. I give this man's life. What was his cause? Adultery?
you must not die! die for adultery? No, the fence does it slip, and the
small vergüldete fly buhlet under my eyes. Let propagating the plant
as it wants to go, because Gloster Bastard was affectionate to
his father than my daughters ehlichgezeugte. Only, exuberance, all the
time, I need soldiers. Behold the smiling matron whose face
behind her outstretched fingers of snow weissagt, the so-virtuous
make grimaces, and before the names of mere lust shakes his head. The
sea-Kaze and brünstige Stutt will not be so ravenous appetite to,
from the waist down, they are Centaurs, though women from all over
obenher: Until belt louder gods dwell; below, everything is filled
with devils.

This is hell, here is darkness, here is the burning, boiling sulfur
Pfuhl - pfuy, pfuy! Gieb me one ounces Zibeth, good pharmacist, my
imagination to versüssen here you have money. Gloster. O! let me
kiss that hand. Lear. I want to wipe it before it has an odor Todt.
Gloster. O! smashed Meisterstük of nature! Thus, once this big world
to nothing abnüzen. Do you know me? Lear. I remember quite well your
eyes, you squint after me? No?

you like your tuna worst, blind Cupid, I will not love.

Did you this challenge, only the written notice thereof.

Gloster.

Were all the letters suns in them, but I could not see.

Edgar. I've got the report it does not want to believe, but it
is, and it breaks my heart in Stüke.

Lear. Ließ. Gloster. How, with these eyes Dekeln? Lear.

O ho, so it is with you?

No eyes in euerm head, and no money in euerm bags. Your eyes are in
a serious condition, and your bag in a light, but you can see how
this world goes. Gloster. I see is feeling. Lear. What! wahnwizig
art thou? You can see someone like this world is if he has no eyes.
See with your ears, see how the judge that simple ausschilt thief!

Verändre the place, and the hand on the hand, tell me again, who
is the judge, who is the thief? You have seen that a Pachtershund a
beggar anbellte? Gloster. Yes, sir. Lear. And the poor dripping dog
ran before?

Since you had the great symbol of prestige can observe, you obey a dog
when he does his office - you nefarious beadle, hold thy hand back!
Why you whip this whore? Streiche your own Rüken; you gasp before it
was beastly desire to use what you emphasize.

The usurer hangs the Spizbuben.

Through ragged clothes you can see the smallest truck; Municipal coats
and fur-Röke hide everything.

Deke sin with gold, and the strong lance of justice will break without
wounding them. They dress in rags, it is a straw Pygmies sufficiently
to pierce. Sündiget Nobody, nobody, I say, no one, take this from me,
my friend, nobody sündiget who has the power of his accuser lips
sealed.

You buy glass eyes, and imagine yourself as a Stümper in politics, as if
you would see things that you do not see.

Well, now, now, my moves from Stifel, stronger, more so. Edgar. O what a
mixture of sense and nonsense!

Lear. If you want my Unglük Mourning, so take my eyes. I know you totally
want to, thy name is Gloster. You knows in the first Augenblik because
we Schmeken the air, we whimper and cry. I want you to preach horch -
Gloster.

Ah, ah! the day! Lear. When we are born, so we cry that we are on this
great stage of Thoren come - it is a good Kloz!

That would mean a fine Stratagema, a troop of horse with felt to beschuhen
I will test them, and if I have this daughter men would have
surprised, then Todt smite, smite Todt, Todt smite, smite, etc.

Todt Eighth appearance. ( A gentleman, and his accompanying.) gentleman.
O here he is, sets hands on him.

Mylord, your daughter Theurer - Lear.

Entsaz No? like a prisoner?

I am born in this, the fool of Glüks to Seyn. Meet me well, you shall
have ransom. Let me Wundärzte come, I am to have been hewn into the
brain. Nobleman.

You shall have everything - Lear. No helper? Bin ichs alone? How that
could made a man a man of salt make his eyes for garden booby pitchers
took the dust of the autumn to lay.

I would like a man tapfrer die, like a jewel bridegroom.

What? I will jovially Seyn; Come, come, I am a king. Gentlemen, do you
know that? Gentleman. Seyde your a king, and we obey you. Lear. So I
have the gift of life.

Come, if you want to wear them, so must you Lauffen. Sa, sa, sa, sa.
(He goes anyway.)

Gentleman. Anblik One of the lowest in the miserable people, but to
a king over all the printing is. You have a daughter, what the nature
of the general curse befreyt the zwo they have brought.

Edgar. Healing you, my noble Lord. Nobleman. Sir, make it short, what
is your desire? Edgar. Heard her something of an forthcoming meetings,
sir? gentleman. This is something infallible, and landkündiges,
which everyone hears, the sound heard kan.

Edgar. But with your permission, as the approaching enemy army? gentleman.
Very eilfertig; the full report will be every hour expected.

Edgar. Thank you, Sir, this is everything I wanted. nobleman. Whether
the Queen like a particular cause for this, so is its army but
vorgerükt.

(Geht ab.) Edgar. Thank you, sir.

Gloster. allgütigen your gods, take my Athem from me; let my wicked
soul I do not even try to die anyway you like it. Edgar. prays
your right, Father.

Gloster. Well, good sir, who Seyde her? Edgar. A very poor man, to
highlight the Glüks tame made, the knowledge and the feeling of
all kinds of misery against other makes compassionate.

Gloster. Thank you! the goodness and the blessing of Heaven repay it
thee - Ninth appearance.

(The Haushofmeister with a letter.) majordomo (by Gloster he is aware.)
Public ausgeruffene Reward! This is höchstglüklich.

Your eyes This is the main free to rule, to make my Glük.

Age, unglükseliger Verräther, befiehl your soul to heaven, which
is considered Schwerdt, which you should Toedter.

Gloster.

Let's just your friendly enough hand strength to apply.

Majordomo.

Where, verwegner Bauer, you can stand under a public Verräther to support
? Overruling, or his fate, the deinige Seyn.

Let go his arm. Edgar.

Ick werd en laat nit Gahn, Herre, with juhr Verlöf. Majordomo. Let him
go, Sclave, or you die.

Edgar.

Myn Heer leeve, loopt mant uers Pades and poor latet Luit met Freed.
When ma vo Grootspreken stärve was myn Leventina to viertein daily
nit so verjahet zyn than it is.

Komt mant verjahet the man nit tau sewing, Seeger ick: taurück! ick hebben
want jau warned, or I proeven well, whether or Bratspiet Jue myn
Steecken more duret, ick wells throughout kort metju Maak.

Ick wants EUK Jue Thäne Wyss Maak, komt Man, it brukt Jue feints
nit kar.

(He suggested him to the ground.) Hofmeister.

Sclave, thou hast slain me, take my bags, and if you willt, that
you probably will ever go should be buried in my body, and the
letters gieb you find me Bey Edmund, Earl of Gloster: such Bey him
to the English Partey - O!

untimely death (he dies.) Edgar. I know you want a turnkey service
Spizbube so pflichtvoll against the vices of your mistress, as
wickedness is just always want kan.

Gloster. How is he Todt? Edgar. Sezt you down, father ; from rest. I
want to see what is in his pockets, the letters of which he speaks,
like perhaps my friends Seyn: he is Todt; verdrießt it just me that
he has no companion.

Let's see - with your permission, my beautiful Sigel - courtesy can not
blame us. We break our enemies on the heart, in her heart to see her
letters to vomit is not as cruel. (He reads the letter.)

"Remember our mutual vows. You have many opportunities for him to
clear the way; euerm if it will not be missing, it will be a time and
place of themselves. When he comes back a winner - so nothing is done,
then I'm the prisoner and his bed my gaol; befreyet disgusting to
me from the same heat, and Plaz entsezet the reward for your effort.

Eure (wife wanted me to say) tilted Gonerill servant. " What a changeable
thing is a woman! An attack against her husband's life, to my brother
for einzutauschen!

Here, in the sand I will give you a grave aufscharren, the monument to
murderous whores hunter, and when it is time Seyn this despicable
Blat before the eyes of certain death lay Duke, it is his Glük
that I received from your death and performance of your message
type kan.

Gloster. The King is wahnwizig. Accursed sey the hardness of my
senses, and a reason, for me just makes my misery feeling! Verrükt I
would be better, but so would my thoughts weaned from my suffering
and pain from the sensation strange fantasies of themselves verliehren.

Edgar. Give me your hand, dunkt me from a distance I hear the TRUMMEL
stir. If Father, I want you to lead a friend. (go from). Zehnter
appearance.

(Cordelia, Kent, a doctor.) Cordelia. O thou good Kent! How can
I live long enough, and tries Seyn enough, your kindness erwiedern!
Kent. Detected to be my lady, is superfluous paid you everything I have
reported, the bescheidne truth, neither more nor less, but so. Cordelia.
clothe you better, and this reminds us of Habit those evil hours,
I ask, leget it.

Kent. To pardon, Madame, My project allows me not to be recognized.
I ask for mercy from me that I do not know, until time and I find it
rathsam. Cordelia. So then it sey So Mylord - (the doctor) What
makes the king? Doctor. Madame, he is still asleep. Cordelia . O! Your
gracious gods, heilet this big break in his dysfunctional nature!

O! winds on the meaning of this soundless disgruntled child transformed
into a father! doctor. Gefällt it your Majesty, the King that we weken?
He has long slept. Cordelia. Hierinn Follow the rule of your
science, and act according euerm own discretion, he is dressed? (Lear
is considered by some servants in an armchair schlaffend
hereingetragen.)

Doctor. Yes, madam, since he was in a deep sleep , we moved him
fresh clothes. Stay, Madam, if we weken him, I have no doubt of his
moderation. Cordelia. O! Theurer my father!

Would like the goddess of health Arzney your lips to my basket, and this
kiss Gram pacify the turbulent, which my sisters zwo your venerable
age have caused.

Kent. Zärtliche and theuerste Princessin! Cordelia. Wäret her father
was not her, so this would weissen Loken pity they should fodern. DISS
was a face, the fighting winds ausgesezt to be? The deep roaring
thunder entgegenzustehen terrible? Among the entsezlichsten blows
flying in crisscross Blize? As a poor Verlohrner in this thin helmet to
watch?

In my worst enemy's dog, if he would have bitten me immediately, should
such a night my fire Bey Plaz got, and you, poor father, genöthiget
were in a wretched hut Bey pigs and ends on verworfnen recently
halbverfaultem straw into the night.

O Jammer! Jammer! It is a wonder that your life is not at the same
time with your good sense has geendiget. Oh! he wakes up - talking with
him - doctor. Talk to yourself, Madame, it's IZT gelegensten. Cordelia.
How is my royal master? what about your majesty?

Lear.

You is not right to me, so from me to take my grave, you're a blessed
spirit, and I'm a fiery wheel bound, which is my own Thränen equal
zerschmolznem Bley erhizen.

Cordelia. Mylord, Kennet me? Lear. You're a ghost, I know, if you
star best? Cordelia. Always, always, still - a doctor. He is still not
quite awake, let him alone for a while.

Lear. Where I have been?

Who am I? Beautiful light! I am ill prepared - another way to see
me from pity could make die.

I do not know what to say, I would not swear that this my hands
are, let's see, I feel the needle stick - I wanted, I would certainly
be what I am.

Cordelia.

O look at me, Mylord, and your streket on hand to bless me.

No, Mylord, you must not kneel. Lear. I beg you, I do not beggars.

I am a very tenderhearted thörichter old man, eighty and over it, and,
to Seyn sincerely, I fear I'm not fully understood my Bey.

Mich seems, you and I should know this man, and yet I doubt, because
I know even not what a DISS place, and so I am also reflect, I know
these clothes do not, no, I do not know where I am in the night
last night.

Laughs are not about me, because, as true a man I am, I think this
lady is my child Cordelia.

Cordelia.

And that's me, I bins - (weinend.) Lear. Thränen Are you wet? Yes,
Bey my loyalty, I ask you, weinet not. If you have poison for me, like
ichs drink, I know you love me not, because your sisters have, as I
erinnre me bad encounter, you have some cause, they are not.
Cordelia. No cause, no cause. Lear . Am I in France? Cordelia.
euerm are in Britain, Mylord. Lear. Betrüget me. doctor.

Calm yourself, Madame; the biggest Wuthe, as you see him laid to Bey.
And yet it would be dangerous for him to remember things that
relate to the previous ones. Ask him to go into it. They worried him
no longer, until he has recovered better. Cordelia. Do not your Majesty,
is a movement to make? Lear. You must have patience with me. Well, I beg
you, forgive and forget, I am old and foolish. (Lear, Cordelia,
Doctor, and serves go from.)

(Kent and the gentleman to stay.) Gentleman. Bestätiget is that the
Duke of Cornwall have been killed so ? Kent.

Yes, sir, it certainly is. nobleman. Who is the leader of the hostile
army? Kent. It is said that the unehliche son of the Earl of Gloster.
nobleman.

His son Edgar is banished by the Duke of Kent located in Germany .

Kent. The rumor is impermanent and it is time around us and the power
of the Kingdom rükt with big steps towards us. nobleman.

The reputation after the decision bloody Seyn - Lebet well, Sir.
(Geht ab.) Kent.

My entire draft will be brought to an end today, want or bad, depending
on the case will fail. (from) Fifth lift. First appearance. (A stock.)
(Edmund, Regan, a gentleman and soldier.) Edmund (for gentleman.
) Erkundiget you whether the Duke Bey verharret his last decision,
or whether it is nevertheless something to move, a different path?

He is very wankelmüthig each Augenblik and deplores what he had in
the previous favorite.

Bring us his steadfast will.

(The gentleman is from.) Regan. Our sister man is surely on the way to
reason to judge. Edmund. It is possible, Madame. Regan.

Well, my Lord pleasant; her the Kennet balance which I have for you. Tell
me honestly, love you my sister is not?

The front door was shut on their reciprocal surprise, and the
Commandant withdrew. He had sighed, before now, as he had shut Mr. and
Mrs. Pope's front gate after an evening's whist. Doubtless they were a
stupid couple.

                    *      *      *      *      *

A light shone from the Barracks--from the office window to the right of
the door. Within the office Vashti had dragged the sofa across the room
and sat, with her fur cloak thrown back, toasting her shoes before a
warm fire. In the dancing flame of it her diamonds sparkled as she
turned to him.

"Mrs. Treacher is upstairs," she said, "hunting out sheets to air for
me. Now fill your pipe, please, and sit down and tell me all about it."

Major Vigoureux found an old pipe on the mantel-shelf, dived in the
tobacco jar for a few dry crumbs, filled, and lit and stamped out a
spark that had dropped on the hearth-rug.

"It isn't a creditable story," said he, puffing slowly, and blinking at
the flash of jewels below her white throat. "In fact, I behaved like a
brute."

"Tell me about it," she repeated.

So he told her; and found himself smoking and watching her, while she
laughed softly, leaning forward to the fire, and gazing into the heart
of it.


CHAPTER IX

THE SALVING OF S.S. MILO


Major Vigoreux awoke at daybreak with a vague sense that something
important had happened or was going to happen--a feeling he had not
known for years. It was so strange that he sat up wondering, rubbing
the back of his head.

Then he remembered, and called out to Sergeant Archelaus.

Sergeant Archelaus appeared, a moment later, ready dressed, and on more
than usually good terms with himself. He had indued his master's
trousers, and, save for an unfashionable bagginess at the hips, they
fitted him surprisingly well.

"Good morning, Archelaus. Did you happen to hear, last night, at what
time the _Milo_ weighs anchor?"

"I heard the captain, sir, tell the pilots to be aboard at
half-after-seven. But with a vessel of her size you may count on their
waiting till high-water or thereabouts."

"In any case"--the Commandant consulted his watch--"we have not too
much time. Where is Treacher?"

"Downstairs, sir, along with his missus, stoking the kitchen fire, with
mattresses built up before it like a sandbag battery. Seems to me the
woman's been spending half the night airing one thing and another. She
says the place is like a vault. Not," added Archelaus, magnanimously,
"that I mind her talk."

"Quite right, Archelaus. I particularly hope you won't quarrel with
Mrs. Treacher while she is here waiting on Miss--er--on the lady."

"If," said Archelaus, darkly, "as how I wanted to quarrel with a
female, I should have taken and married one long ago. As 'tis, when the
woman's tongue becomes afflicting, I turns round and pities Treacher.
There's more ways of doing that than in so many words, and you'd be
astonished how they both dislikes it."

"At any rate," said the Commandant, mildly, "they have saved you the
trouble of being late with the fire this morning. So you may fetch me
my shaving-water at once, please."

He sprang out of bed and reached for his dressing-gown, astonished at
his own good spirits. "It does make a difference," said he aloud,
though the remark was addressed to himself.

"It do," said Archelaus, turning in the doorway.

"I--I beg your pardon?" The Commandant turned about, a trifle confused.

"It may seem a little thing; but it gives a man self-respect, and I'm
glad you noticed 'em." Archelaus looked down at his legs, complacently.
"Always supposin'," he added, "they don't take me for a Frenchman,
owing to the fulness hereabouts."

Yes, certainly, it made a difference--to rise in the morning with a
sense of something waiting to be done. So the Commandant put it to
himself while he shaved, standing at his dressing-table under the
barrack window. The window was set high in the wall: too high to afford
him a view of the Islands, even though he stood on tip-toe. But through
it and above the open pane he caught a glimpse of blue sky and
lilac-coloured cloud, touched with gold by the risen sun. He could
guess the rest. A perfect morning!--clean and crisp, with the sea a
translucent blue, and sunlight glittering on the Island beaches; the
air still, yet bracing, and withal ineffably pure--a morning mysterious
with the sense of autumn, but of autumn rarified by its passage over
the salt strait, deodorised, made pure of marsh fog and the rotting
leaf.

The Commandant hummed to himself in the intervals of his shaving, which
nevertheless he performed meticulously by force of habit. It was his
custom to shave, and very carefully, before taking his bath. For years
he had made a ritual of his morning toilet: so many passes of his razor
across the strop (to be precise, one hundred and fifty, neither more
nor less), so many douches with the sponge, so many petitions
afterwards on his knees. Yes, it is to be feared that his prayers, no
less than his shaving, had become a drill, though one may plead for him
that he always went through it conscientiously. A stroke too few across
the strop--a petition to the Almighty missed--either would have worried
him with a feeling that the day had been begun amiss. He was poor, but
with the never-failing well on Garrison Hill he could come clean as the
richest to his prayers. Even Miss Gabriel had to admit that the poor
man (as she put it) knew how to take care of his person.

"We shall be in good time, Archelaus," said the Commandant, with a side
glance at his watch; "that is, if you'll step down the hill and get the
boat ready."

Archelaus, whose hearing had not improved of late, checked himself in
the act of filling his master's tub.

"I didn't clearly catch what you said, for the splashing.... Boat? If
you want the boat, I put her off to the moorings last night. Found her
tied up and bumping against the quay steps, quite as if money was no
object to any of us."

"Thank you. Yes, I relied on your finding and mooring her properly.
Well, now, when you are ready I want you to unmoor her again. We are
going off to the liner to fetch Miss--that is to say--the lady's
boxes."

Sergeant Archelaus faced about slowly, cap in hand.

"Oh--oh!" said he slowly. "Relative of yours, sir?--making so bold."

"Dear me, no; nothing of the sort."

"Paying lodger, perhaps.... Or else we've come into a fortune all of a
sudden, an' that accounts for Treacher's playing ad lib. with the
coals--begging your pardon again."

The Commandant winced, and came within an ace of gashing himself
severely. He had forgotten the penny in his pocket, the gulf between
this and pay-day ... and Vashti, no doubt, was used to fare daintily,
luxuriously!

"I really think"--he turned on Archelaus in sudden anger--"you might
know better than to stare into the glass when I am shaving. Moreover,
you forget your place, and inexcusably, even for an old servant."

Archelaus resumed his filling of the bath, and, having filled it,
withdrew without another word.

Yes; but while the manner of Archelaus' speech had deserved rebuke, in
the matter of it Archelaus was right. The matter of it was urgent, too,
and not to be played with. In an hour or so Vashti would be awake....
She must delay dressing until her boxes arrived; but, once dressed, she
would expect breakfast. The larder, to his knowledge, contained but the
rusty end of a flitch of green bacon--that, and perhaps a couple of
rusty eggs, a loaf, and some salt butter. Fool that he was! And a
minute ago he had greeted the day so light-heartedly!

What was to be done? In the pauses of sponging and towelling himself,
the Commandant asked the question again and again. Could he go to Mrs.
Treacher and borrow back the four shillings he had given her last
night? Fish, new-laid eggs, fresh butter, marmalade, the best tea
procurable in the Islands.... Yes, undoubtedly four shillings would go
a long way towards providing breakfast. But after breakfast would come
luncheon, and after luncheon--

There was Mr. Tregaskis, of the Shop. Mr. Tregaskis sold almost
everything "advantageous to life"--as Shakespeare's exiles said upon
another island: everything from bacon and pickles to boots,
iron-mongery, and sun-bonnets. For twelve years the Commandant had
dealt with Mr. Tregaskis, paying whatever Mr. Tregaskis charged him,
and always in ready money. He knew, moreover, that Mr. Tregaskis gave
credit: and yet, after twelve years of ready-money dealing, he winced
as he saw himself entering the shop and proposing to open an account.
He foresaw himself inexorably driven to it. But he foresaw himself also
stammering out the suggestion with every sign of conscious rascality.
And, after all, was it honest to enter a shop and open an account with
one penny in pocket? Suppose that, next pay-day, no pay were
forthcoming!

He must approach Mr. Tregaskis: there was no help for it. Yet the
prospect pleased him so little that, as he walked down the hill to the
quay, he decided to put off the interview, and was almost running past
the shop (which had just been unshuttered) when Mr. Tregaskis himself
appeared, framed of a sudden in the upper and open half of his shop
doorway.

"Eh? Is it you, sir? Good morning!" he called.

"Good morning! And a fine morning, too, Mr. Tregaskis."

"After a night of marvels. You've heard about the liner, sir, out in
the Roads?... 'Tis all a mystery to me how she ever found her way in."

"I am putting off to learn the particulars. And, by the way, Mr.
Tregaskis"--the Commandant paused--"I intended to call in upon you on
my way back."

"Anything I can do for you, sir, and at any time," responded Mr.
Tregaskis. "I suppose, now," he added, "you'd take it as a liberty if I
was to ask for a seat in your boat?"

"Not in the least. There she is, waiting off the quay steps: so if you
have business on board, put on your hat, come along with me, and
welcome!"

"Thanking you kindly, sir. Which I was reckoning that--she being from
foreign parts and the Islands the first place she've touched at, I
might pick up a bravish order in the way of fresh milk and eggs, not to
mention that Job Clemow sold me half-a-hundredweight of plaice, with a
cod or two, that he took on the spiller yesterday."

"Come along, by all means," repeated the Commandant, moving off towards
the quay steps; and Tregaskis, having tucked his shop-apron around his
waist and run into the back passage for his billy-cock hat, hurried in
his wake.

Reuben Tregaskis--known throughout the Islands as The Bester--was a
genial ruffian of familiar accost, red-faced, round in the stomach,
utterly unscrupulous at a bargain. The Commandant did not like him, and
particularly disliked the prospect of asking him a favour. Most of all
he regretted, as they pushed off, that chance this morning had forced
him to put such a man under a small obligation. He feared that, when it
came to asking leave to open an account, he might seem to be using this
advantage. (Such a fear, it scarcely needs saying, was groundless. In
his business dealings, The Bester was superior alike to gratitude and
rancour, and would bargain with his own mother as with his worst
enemy.)

The Commandant, oppressed with his own thoughts, bent his attention
upon the steering, and punctuated with monosyllables only the exuberant
flow of Mr. Tregaskis' conversation, which, bye-and-bye, as they neared
the roadstead, resolved itself into offers of wagers on the length,
tonnage, and actual carrying capacity of the liner.

She lay very nearly in the middle of the roadstead, broadside-on to the
morning sunshine, and the more the Commandant studied her the more he
wondered at last night's miracle. She had not yet begun to weigh,
though he discerned a couple of St. Ann's pilots talking with an
officer on the bridge. Presently the officer left them, and descended
to the deck, where he stood in the gangway awaiting the boat.

"Major Vigoureux?" he asked, lifting the peak of his cap, as she fell
alongside.

The Commandant, not a little astonished, returned the salutation. "That
is my name, sir."

"I have been expecting you," said the officer. "I am Captain Whitaker,
at your service--the skipper of this vessel, in fact, and thankful
enough, I can tell you, to be alive this morning and in command of her.
Madame's boxes are on deck here, if you do me the favour to climb on
board.... Ah, and here is Madame's maid, to give account of them!"

The Commandant, drawing breath at the head of the ladder, and glancing
down the _Milo's_ majestic length of deck, was aware of four large
trunks, and beside them a neat, foreign-looking woman, who curtsied in
foreign fashion as she came forward.

"M'sieur will take my duty to Madame, and tell her that I have done my
best to pack to her orders. The rest I am to report from Plymouth, when
we arrive."

"And I daresay," put in Captain Whitaker, with an amused turn of the
eye towards the trunks, then back at the Commandant, "Madame would call
these 'just a few necessaries.' Though I say to you, sir," he went on
gravely, "that all the _Milo's_ hold--and the _Milo_ will carry close
on four thousand tons--hasn't room enough to stow what Madame deserves,
be it in clothes or jewels."

"I--I beg your pardon?"

"She hasn't told you? No; I bet she wouldn't," said Captain Whitaker.
"Come down to my cabin, sir, and let me offer you a brandy-and-soda?
No? Then, perhaps, you'll do me the honour to join me at
breakfast--which must be ready at this moment," he added, as eight
strokes sounded on the ship's bell forward. "Never mind the size of the
trunks, sir; one of my men shall help you ashore with 'em."

In the Captain's cabin, which had a floor of parquet and panels of teak
set in mahogany, stood a table with a white cloth upon it, and a
breakfast array of blue-and-white china. A steward, in a blue suit with
brass buttons, brought the meats in dishes of polished electro-plate,
and on a small sideboard stood other dishes with small spirit lamps
burning beneath. The Commandant seated himself; ate, drank, and
marvelled.

"You know Madame?" asked Captain Whitaker, helping himself to a dish of
kidneys and bacon. He nodded, intercepting the Commandant's gaze. "We
keep them in ice, if you're not above trying our fare. You'll find they
are not bad. My other meals I take with the passengers, but I breakfast
alone, as a rule."

The Commandant's mind ran on the breakfast yet to be extracted from Mr.
Tregaskis' shop.

"You know her?" asked Captain Whitaker.

"I once had the pleasure--years ago----"

"If that's so"--Captain Whitaker nodded--"we'll take her praises for
granted. She's great; you can sum it up at that. By the way, did she
happen to tell you why she is leaving the ship here?"

"Yes; she went ashore in a hurry, she said, to avoid being thanked----"

"Then I guessed right."

"--though," confessed the Commandant, "I haven't a notion what she
meant."

Captain Whitaker set down his breakfast-cup and buttered himself a
piece of toast, gazing the while long and earnestly at his companion.

"No? Then I'll tell you. The passengers don't know it as yet, though
I've caught a guess or two flying around; but the truth is sure to come
out, sooner or later. Man, it was she that saved the _Milo_ last night,
in that ghastly twenty minutes before we picked up the pilot.... Oh, I
see by your face you don't believe me!--but you must take it or leave
it. Shall I go on?"

"Go on," said the Commandant.

"We were due out of New York on the 27th, but missed our tide in
clearing and didn't pass the bar till early next morning. We carried
fifty-nine saloon passengers, seventy-five second, and a hundred and
twenty-five steerage, with a crew of a hundred exactly. Besides these
we had the mails--two hundred and twenty bags--and a fair amount of
dollars in specie (I needn't tell how much.) The weather was thick from
the first with a heavy sea running on the other side. We met it full
just outside Sandy Hook, and for three days I pitied the passengers.
The third night out the mischief happened. I had left the bridge soon
after four bells and was just turning in for my beauty-sleep when I
heard an unholy racket below in the engine-room, and felt the ship slow
down of a sudden. One of the rods had kicked loose from its gib and
started to flail around death and destruction. Thanks to Crosbie, our
first engineer, she was brought up before kicking our insides out, and
we hove to; but the repairs cost us close on eighteen hours. By
daybreak the weather was thickening worse than ever, though with no
great amount of wind, and we started again in a fog so thick that from
the bridge you could see her bows, and only just. Well, that's how it
was with us, all the way across. We seemed to carry the fog; and though
it lifted a bit, off and on, it never looked like giving us a chance of
an observation. All yesterday afternoon I was worried by the thought
that we'd overrun our reckoning and must be somewhere near the Islands,
and about two o'clock--though the soundings were good--I ordered the
engines to be reduced below the half-speed at which she was running.

"To ease the passengers' minds I had arranged for a concert in the
saloon after dinner, and Madame--she had booked with us under a name
that wasn't her own to dodge the New York newspaper men, but the
passengers recognized her--had promised me to sing to them. (You have
heard her, eh?--it makes you cry, and not mind, either, who sees you.)
I remember now that she looked at me pretty straight when she gave the
promise, but seeing me not minded to speak, she asked no questions.

"Well, the concert came off. At any other time I'd have given pounds to
be sitting there and listening; but the worry on my mind kept me to the
bridge, and from there I heard her, the notes lifting up through the
saloon sky-light as if heaven and earth had somehow got capsized or
else an angel had come aboard to sing us clear of the fog. There were
three of us on the bridge--myself, and the third officer, Mr.
Francillon, and a seaman called Petersen; and when the song ended--it
was a little Italian something-or-other, very bright and gay--and the
clapping began and the calls for an encore, I couldn't stand it any
longer, and I was afraid she'd be starting on 'Home, Sweet Home,' or
something of that sort, and I didn't want Mr. Francillon to see my
face. So I made up an excuse and sent him off to the chart-house for a
pair of dividers (which I didn't want), and away he went.

"When he was gone I stood by the wheel for a bit listening as the
clapping died down. It stopped at last, and I braced myself up and
waited to have my feelings wrung, when just behind me I heard a step on
the ladder. Of course, I took it for Mr. Francillon returning, and I
wheeled about, short-tempered like, to tell him he needn't be
tip-toeing--we weren't on the bridge to listen to grand opera--when
what do I see but Madame! 'You needn't look so cross, Captain,' she
says; 'for I know well enough I'm breaking all rules, and I'll go away
quietly and sing to them again. But we're somewhere near the Islands,
and the call came on me to warn you!' 'Why, truly, ma'am,' I answered,
'I believe we're not far off them.' 'We're close to them,' she answered
me, nodding her head. 'I'm Island-born, Captain, and I feel 'em in my
blood.' I put this down to craziness--hysterics--or whatever you choose
to call it; but just to soothe her mind and get her down quietly off
the bridge I sang out to the leadsman to know if he had found
soundings. I was bending over the rail when I felt a touch on my arm,
and heard her cry out 'Starboard! Hard a-starboard--hard!'--just like
that." Captain Whitaker dropped his voice to a low, fierce whisper as
he imitated her. "It took the helmsman sharp and sudden, so that he had
begun to put the wheel down before he realised that the order didn't
come from me; and the next moment Madame had flung herself upon it and
was helping with both hands. 'Hullo!' says I, stepping after her
smartly, and as good as asking if she or I commanded the _Milo_. The
passengers below had started to sing 'D'ye ken John Peel?' and were
yelling out a lot of silly hunting-cries with the chorus. I could hear
nothing above the racket. But, sure enough, looking to port over my
shoulder as I laid hand on the wheel to check it, I saw a whitish smear
that meant breakers; and the smear no sooner showed than above it a
great black cliff stood out as if 'twere a moving thing and meant to
carve into us right amidships--a great cliff with a rock on it like the
Duke of Wellington's nose. A man from the top of it could have jumped
onto our bulwarks, and I shut my eyes as it overhung, waiting for the
crash; but it slid by and was gone like a slide you pass through a
magic lantern.

"'Port now! Port for your life!' she called out; and I saw first of all
her hand go out to push Petersen off, and then the little sparks
flickering on her rings as she gripped the spokes, and checking 'em,
dragged the wheel back hand over hand. A man's strength she must have
had. 'Help me,' was all she said, in a kind of panting voice, and as I
caught hold to help it over, 'That was the Head! Hard up, now! and ring
down for full speed!' 'Full speed!' I grunted, yet pressing on the
wheel all the time--'It's stop her you mean, and anchor.' 'What, here?
with Hell-deeps on your starboard bow and a five-knot tide running!
Full speed ahead--there's no room to swing--no, nor half.' She stopped
my hand on the bell and rang down herself, 'full speed ahead'; and the
passengers whooping away at 'John Peel!' all the while.

"Then, as the engines began to run, she looked at me, still holding on
by the wheel. 'They may do it,' she said, 'they may do it. At half
speed she'd never point off, against a five-knot tide.' 'God have mercy
on us!' was all I could say. 'If you know--?' 'Know?' she caught me up.
'I was brought up to know. But she'll never do it if she don't pick up
way.... Ah, that's better!' she said with a kind of sigh staring over
the starboard bow into the fog. 'Now!'--and we held our breath, all of
us; for Mr. Francillon was back on the bridge standing close behind her
and wondering what the devil was up. She let thirty seconds pass, and
then turned to him as if he'd been there all the while and she knew it.

"'Look astern,' she said, 'and maybe, if you're clever, you can see the
Monk.'

"'The Monk!' We cried this out together; for that we had passed the
Monk without sighting her or catching sound of her fog-horns was a
thing incredible.

"'But so it is,' said she. 'We have passed the Monk; passed it close.
Don't I know the Pope's Head on Lesser Teague? Now hard-a-port
still--for we've the Gunnel Dogs somewhere there to leeward, and
they're worse almost than Hell-deeps.'

"We were racing by this time. There was nothing in the world to
see--only the fog, which had turned, within the last minute, to dusk;
and nothing to feel except that we were racing down between the walls
of it like a stick caught in a mill heat. Worse it was; we were driving
down full tilt with a five-knot tide under us. If we struck there was
one consolation; the end would come soon. As 'John Peel' ended we could
hear the tide race take up the tune and hum it on the wind of our
passage; and above it I heard the third officer call out that he had
glimpsed a light astern.

"'The Monk!' said Madame, nodding her head to me to help her in easing
off the wheel.

"And I don't know, sir, if you have ever been through a gale at sea; a
really tight gale, I mean; with a while in it--maybe an hour only,
maybe twenty-four--when the odds are slowly turning against you. Then
there comes a point when, with nothing to show for it, you feel that
you are holding your own; and another point when you feel that, bar
accidents, the worst is over. The sea seems to break just as savage as
ever, and you can't swear that the wind has lessened. You have nothing
to point to, but, all the same, you know, and can thank the Lord.

"That's how it was with the _Milo_. I couldn't say when the danger
ceased; but I found myself looking at Madame across the binnacle lamp
and she was looking at me. My hand went out and I rang down for
half-speed, then for dead slow. We stood there and listened while the
engines changed their beat from one to the other. In the saloon they
had started a comic song with a chorus. Said she, after a bit, 'You can
bring up now and wait for morning. North of the Gunnel here there's an
eddy slack where the tides meet, and you may count on thirty fathoms.'

"I called down to know what the lead reported. I felt my voice shaking
and the leadsman's voice shook a bit too as he called back that he had
found the bottom with the red seventeen fathom mark. Half a minute
later he sang out that his line had lost it. I was just about calling
to let go anchor when away on our starboard bow we heard the pilots
hailing. We sent up a flare, and at sight of it the lighthousemen, away
on the Monk, began banging, and small blame to them!"


CHAPTER X

THE ADVENTURES OF FOUR SHILLINGS


As he finished his story Captain Whitaker stood up and reached out a
hand to open a glass-fronted cupboard in which he kept his books and
papers. The Commandant, mistaking his movement, rose also.

"No, no, sir," the Captain corrected him. "Sit down and finish your
breakfast. The fact is, when her maid, last night, handed me the letter
telling me she had gone ashore, I sat down and wrote an answer. Here it
is, and I was going to ask you to deliver it for me."

The Commandant took it, and placed it carefully in his breast pocket.
"I thank you," he answered, "but I have breakfasted. If you don't
mind--it occurs to me that, if I delay, some of your passengers will
soon be about the decks, and will see the luggage going overside, and
ask questions."

"And that's well thought of," interrupted Captain Whitaker, "though I
expect the luggage is all in your boat before this. How far lies your
house from the quay, by the way?"

The Commandant answered that his house--the Barracks--stood at the very
top of the hill.

"Why, then," said the Captain, leading the way up the companionway,
"the least I can do is to send a couple of my men along with you to
help. Your fellows--you'll excuse me--don't look equal to it.
Pensioners, eh?"

The Commandant winced. "One of them," he answered stiffly, "is on the
active list. His strength would surprise you, sir."

"H'm!" said the Captain, with a glance at Sergeant Archelaus.

"The other--but where is Tregaskis?"

"Gone off, sir, to do business with the steward," explained Archelaus,
saluting.

"The other is a Mr. Tregaskis, a respectable man, and our principal
tradesman in Garland Town. He has a design, I believe, to sell you
whatever you may want in the way of fresh provisions."

"Certainly. The steward can go ashore, too, and do business with him,
and his boat will bring the others back. Here--Hoskings! Arnott!"
Captain Whitaker called to a couple of seamen, and sent a third off to
summon the steward.

Five minutes later the Commandant found himself back in his boat,
seated besides the _Milo's_ steward, and confronting a tall pile of
luggage. The two seamen had already put off with Mr. Tregaskis in the
steward's boat.

"And you will present my duty to Madame?" said Madame's maid, looking
down from the ship's side. "And tell her that I charge myself to see
the rest of her luggage safe to the hotel, where I will report myself
and wait for Madame's orders."

Captain Whitaker waved good-bye. Archelaus pushed off and fell to the
oars. The Commandant took the tiller. As the boat pointed for shore the
garrison bell on the hill rang out nine o'clock.

Nine o'clock! The notes of the bell struck apprehension upon the
Commandant's heart. His guest would certainly be awake by this time,
and as certainly hungry. To be sure, she could not attire herself until
her boxes arrived--at any rate, would not appear. And yet, with such a
strong-willed person, he could not be certain. A lady capable of
landing on a foggy night in an evening gown and diamonds, and of
walking up the street of St. Hugh's in shoes of rose-coloured satin,
might well be capable of descending to breakfast in those garments.

To breakfast!--and as yet that breakfast had to be bought, and on
credit!

He wished now that he had offered to convey Mr. Tregaskis back in his
own boat. He might (he told himself) have broached his proposition on
the way.

The _Milo's_ steward, affably inclined, let fall a remark or two upon
the Islands. He opined that they were quaint. The poor man meant well,
but was a person slightly above his station, and clipped his words.
This gave him a patronising tone, which the Commandant, in his
impatience, found offensive. He answered in curt monosyllables, which
in turn caused the steward to mistake him for a stand-offish gentleman.

The steward was a very resplendent figure indeed. The morning sunlight,
which drew sparkles from the brass-buttoned suit and brass-bound cap
beside him, exposed pitilessly the threadbare woof of the Commandant's
uniform coat. There had been nothing amiss with the coat, yesterday;
nothing to observe, at least--- And, "Confound the fellow!" thought
the Commandant, "how am I to get rid of him and have a word with
Tregaskis?"

For desperate ills, desperate remedies. Drawing alongside the quay,
where Mr. Tregaskis and the two seamen had landed and stood waiting,
the Commandant called upon his best service voice, concealing the shake
in it:

"Mr. Tregaskis!"

"Sir?"

"I desire a word with you."

"Yes, sir."

"And in private," went on the Commandant, stepping ashore and marching
straight up the steps.

"Certainly, sir." After all, and not so long ago, Major Vigoureux had
been Governor and Chief Magistrate of the Islands, with power to
inflict fine and imprisonment. Mr. Tregaskis (conscious, perhaps, of
some close dealings in the not remote past) turned obediently and led
the way to his shop door at the corner of the hill, thence through the
shop, and thence to the threshold of a dark parlour behind it, into
which he was passing when the Commandant's voice brought him to a
stand.

"We will talk here, if you please," said the Commandant.

"Certainly, sir," Mr. Tregaskis turned about.

"I want," said the Commandant, "half a pound of your best tea, half a
dozen new laid eggs, an amount of bacon which I leave to you, and a pot
of marmalade."

"With pleasure, sir. Anything I can do----"

"And on credit."

"As I said sir--to be sure--and hoping that I have given satisfaction
hitherto--" Mr. Tregaskis, still a trifle flurried, fell to rubbing his
hands together, thus producing an appearance of haste before he
actually collected himself and hurried to execute the order.

"Good God!" thought the Commandant to himself. "Am I browbeating this
man?"

He watched as Mr. Tregaskis cut and weighed out the butter and bacon
and tied them up into parcels, with the help of a small boy summoned
from the back premises; or rather, the small boy (Melk by name, which
was short for Melchisedek) did the weighing and tying while Mr.
Tregaskis stood over him and exhorted him to look sharp, or he'd never
make a grocer. The steward watched from the doorway, puffing a
cigarette, and expressed a hope that he was not excluding the light.
The Commandant wished him a thousand miles away. Sergeant Archelaus had
borrowed a light trolley from the quay; the two seamen had loaded it;
and already Madame's luggage was half-way up the hill, and must
infallibly reach the Barracks before Madame's breakfast could overtake
it.

"And when would you like it sent, sir?" asked Mr. Tregaskis, nodding at
the piles on the counter.

"Sent?" echoed the Commandant. "I beg your pardon," he went on hastily.
"I had meant to ask you for the loan of a basket. I will carry the
things myself."

"Indeed, sir?" Mr. Tregaskis hesitated. "You are welcome to a basket,
of course, if you think it wise."

"I am not ashamed to be seen carrying a basket, Mr. Tregaskis."

"No, indeed, sir! But the hill being steep--and a little exercise would
do Melk, here, all the good in the world."

"I prefer to carry the goods myself, I thank you." (Was everybody in a
conspiracy to take the Commandant for a very old man?)

He waited impatiently until the basket was filled, slung it on his arm,
and hurried out of the shop with such impetuosity that the steward,
still lounging in the doorway, had scarcely time to skip into the
roadway and give passage.

"They must be going in for some kind of feast, up to Barracks," said
the boy Melk meditatively, after a pause.

"Why?" asked Mr. Tregaskis, looking up from the counter.

"Because," said the boy, "Old Mother Treacher was here, not ten minutes
ago, and the way she spent her money was a caution. There's the best
part of four shillin' in the till, if only you'll look."

"What did she buy?"

"Eggs mostly--and bacon--and marmalade."

Mr. Tregaskis walked to his shop door, and stared up the hill after the
Commandant.

"Must be going off their heads," he decided, and shook his own
doubtfully. "It can't be a merry-makin' either; for, when you come to
think of it, folks don't feast off such things as streaky bacon."

"Not off this sort, any'ow," airily agreed the steward, who had been
examining a piece on the counter.

                    *      *      *      *      *

The Commandant had started fiercely enough to climb the hill, but by
the time he reached the bend of the hill where stood the cottage which
had been Vashti's home he was drawing difficult breath. Indeed, he was
on the point of setting down his load and resting when, as he turned
the corner, he came full upon Mrs. Banfield, the good wife of the
present occupier, in conversation with Mrs. Medlin, her neighbour
across the road. The two women were staring up the hill, each from her
doorway, but at the sound of the Commandant's footsteps they turned and
stared at him instead: whereat he blushed and hung on his heel for a
moment before charging through the cross-fire of gossip.

"Good morning, ladies!"

"Aw, good morning to you, sir," answered Mrs. Banfield, with a curtsey,
and gazed hard at his basket. "Nothing wrong up to the garrison, I
hope?"

"So far as I know, ma'am, nothing at all."

"Seein' that great stack of luggage go up the hill," explained Mrs.
Medlin, "why naturally it made a person anxious. And when you put a
civil question, as I did to Sergeant Archelaus, and he turns round and
as good as snaps your head off, why a person can't help putting two and
two together."

"Indeed, ma'am, and what did you make the result?" asked the
Commandant, politely.

"Why, sir, Mrs. Banfield here was reckoning that the Government had
sent stores for you at last, and says I, 'You may be right, Sarah, and
glad enough we shall a-be to hear of it, for it do make my heart bleed
to remember old days and see what the garrison is reduced to in vittles
and small-clothes. But,' says I, 'the luggage comes from the great
steamship, and the great steamship comes from America, and that
Government would be sending stores from America, even in these days of
tinned meats, is what, beggin' your pardon, no person could believe
that wasn't born a fool.'"

"Which I answered to Mrs. Medlin," said Mrs. Banfield, "'Granted,
ma'am,' I said, 'but, food or no food, I'd sooner swallow it than
believe what you were tellin' just now.'"

"And what was that?" asked the Commandant, turning on Mrs. Medlin.

"Why, sir, knowing the Lord Proprietor to be no friend of yours----"

"Hush, Mrs. Medlin--hush, if you please!"

"Of course, sir, if you don't want to hear----"

"I certainly cannot listen to any talk against Sir Cæsar. It would be
exceedingly improper."

"I warn' going to say anything improper," Mrs. Medlin protested
stoutly. "And I wonder, sir, at your thinking it, after the years
you've given good-day to me."

"Why, bless the woman!" interjected Mrs. Banfield, "you might talk as
improper as you pleased and the Governor wouldn't understand your
drift--he's that innocent-minded. But what she meant, sir, was that the
Lord Proprietor had turned you out, belike--as everyone knows he has a
mind to--and that a new Governor might be coming in your place."

The Commandant flushed. "My dear Mrs. Banfield, the Lord Proprietor has
nothing to do with the military command here, either to appoint or to
dismiss. I cannot forbid your gossipping; but it may help you to know
that every soldier on the Islands holds his post directly under the
Crown."

Mrs. Banfield gazed at the basket with the air of one who, seeming to
yield, yet abides by her convictions. "The Crown's a long way off,
seemin' to me," she objected; "and contrariwise I do know that when the
Lord Proprietor wants his way on the Islands he gets it. Though it were
ten times a week, he'd get it, and no one nowadays strong enough to
stand up to him."

"My dear Mrs. Banfield!"

But Mrs. Banfield was not to be checked. "He's a tyrant," she declared,
her voice rising shrilly; "and I'd say it a hundred times, though I went
to the lock-up for it. He's a tyrant: and you, sir, are too simple-minded
to cope with 'em. Yes, yes--'a Christian gentleman'--everyone grants it
of you, and--saving your presence--everyone is sorry enough for it. You
wouldn't hurt a fly, for your part. Man, woman, or child, you'd have
every soul in the Islands to live neighbourly and go their ways in
peace. No doubt 'tis good Gospel teaching, too, and well enough it
worked till this rumping little tyrant came along and pushed you aside.
Goodness comes easy to you, sir, I reckon; but it bears hard upon us
poor folk that want someone to stand up for us against injustice."

"The Lord Proprietor, Mrs. Banfield, has a strong will of his own; but
I certainly never heard that he was unjust."

"Then you haven't heard, sir, what's happening over on Saaron?"

"On Saaron, ma'am?"

"On Saaron, sir.... Eh? No, to be sure.... Folks may suffer on the
Islands in these days, but what use to tell the Governor? He was good
to us in his time, but now he has cut himself off from us with his own
troubles.... Did anyone tell you, sir, the text that old Seth Hicks
preached from, over to St. Ann's, at the last service before the Lord
Proprietor closed the Meeting House? 'I will lift up mine eyes,' said
he, 'to the hills, from whence cometh my help,' and then, having given
it out, the old fellow turned solemn-like t'ards the window that looks
across here to Garrison Hill. 'Amen,' said some person in the
congregation; 'but 'tis no use, brother Seth, your seeking in that
quarter.'"

The Commandant, who had set down his basket, lifted it again wearily.
"Mrs. Banfield," said he, "won't you at least put it down to my credit
that, having (as you say) my own troubles, I don't bother my neighbours
with 'em?"

"Why, bless your heart, sir--that ever I should say it--that's what
hurts us sorest! We can fit and fend along somehow, never you mind; but
when for years you shared our little tribylations and taught us,
forrigner, tho' you were, to be open with 'ee as daylight, it do seem
cruel that you can't enjoy a bit of trouble on your own account but you
must take it away and hide it."

The Commandant's eyes moistened suddenly. "Is that how the Islanders
look at it, Mrs. Banfield?"

"It is, sir."

"Well, well," said the Major. "I never guessed.... I am a blind old
fool, it seems. But"--and here, blinking away the moisture, he smiled
at Mrs. Banfield almost gaily--"I can begin at once to make amends. The
luggage that went up the hill, just now, belongs to--to a friend of
mine--a visitor who will be my guest for a short while at the Barracks.
And this"--he tapped the basket--"is for my friend's breakfast. In
exchange for this information you shall tell me now what is the matter
over at Saaron."

"The matter is, the Lord Proprietor has given the Tregarthens notice."

The Commandant's eyes grew round in his head as he stared at Mrs.
Banfield, who answered by nodding her head briskly, as though each nod
was the tap of a hammer driving home a nail.

"What? Eli Tregarthen--that married Cara's younger daughter--that used
to live--" The Commandant recited this much in the fashion of a child
repeating "The House that Jack Built." His gaze wandered past Mrs.
Banfield to the blue-painted doorway behind her.

"It don't matter, that I can see, where the woman used to live," said
Mrs. Banfield; "but it do matter to my mind that a Tregarthen has
farmed Saaron for six generations, and now 'tis pack-and-go for 'em."

"But why?"

"Why?" echoed Mrs. Banfield, fiercely. "Because, as you was tellin'
just now, sir, my lord has a strong will. Because my lord wants Saaron
for his own. Because he wants to shoot rabbits. Because rabbits be of
more account to him than men--and I don't blame him for it, seein' that
all the men on the Islands be turned to mice in these days. Oh, 'tis an
old tale! But there! You never heard of it. You never heard--not
you--that the man was even unjust!"

"But, my dear Mrs. Banfield----"

"Go'st thy ways, good Governor. You was the poor man's friend--one
time; but now there's too much Christianity in you.... And no more will
I answer until you tells me who your guest is, that eats two breakfasts
in one morning."

The Commandant gazed at her in mild surprise. Doubtless he would have
asked the meaning of this cryptic utterance; but at this moment the two
seamen from the _Milo_ issued forth from the gateway up the road; and,
descending a few paces, turned to call back farewell to Mrs. Treacher,
who, having escorted them so far, halted under the arch and stood, with
hands on hips, to watch them out of sight.

"Wish 'ee well, I'm sure!" said Mrs. Treacher. "You understand we be
poor people in these parts."

"Don't mention that, ma'am," said one of the seamen, politely.

"There's no talk of favours, as between us and Madame," called out the
other.

They passed the Commandant and saluted. On a sudden it struck him that
these men would expect a small monetary acknowledgment for their
trouble; and hastily nodding good-morning to Mrs. Banfield and Mrs.
Medlin, he ran staggering up the slope to the gateway.

"Mrs. Treacher!" he panted, dumping down his burden, "I--er--it so
happens that I have no small change about me."

"Me either," said Mrs. Treacher, idiomatically, and bent over the
basket. "What's this?"

"You will forgive my mentioning it, Mrs. Treacher; but these good
fellows very likely expected a sixpence or so for their trouble. If you
wouldn't mind lending me back--for a short time only, a couple of
shillings out of the four that--that I----"

"Very sorry, sir," said Mrs. Treacher, "but I spent 'em."

"What! Already?"

"Which I didn't like," pursued Mrs. Treacher, stonily, "to insult the
lady's stomach with the kind of eatables I found in the larder. So
while you was away, sir, I took the liberty to slip down to
Tregaskisses and lay out three shillings. Which, finding no one in
charge but that half-baked boy of his, I got good value for the money;
and a sight better bacon than this, I don't mind saying--for all you
have been so lavish."

She peered into the basket and looked up sharply. It was a
cross-examining look, and seemed to ask where he had found the money
for all this extravagance. The Commandant, evading it, turned and
stared down the road, where already the two seamen had passed out of
sight.

"You needn't mind them, sir," said Mrs. Treacher, reassuringly. "It's
light come and light go with sailors."

Nevertheless, when the Commandant turned to accept the assurance, half
eagerly and yet less than half convinced, she would not meet his eye;
but picked up the basket and staggered along with it to the Barrack
door. "There's a saying," said Mrs. Treacher, eagerly, halting there,
"that sufficient for the day is the evil thereof. I've found it
comforting before now. But it don't seem to allow for three meals per
diem; and how to make bacon and eggs for dinner look different from
bacon and eggs for breakfast is a question that'll take thought. You
didn't happen to think upon cheese, now?"

"I did," said the Commandant, triumphantly. "There's half a pound of
cheese--the very best Cheddar--or, so Tregaskis assured me."

"Tregaskis!" Mrs. Treacher put down her nose and sniffed the basket.
"Tregaskis never sold better than third-class American in all his
life."

"She comes from America," the Commandant hazarded.

"I shouldn't advise you to build on that," said Mrs. Treacher,
dubiously; "but we'll hope for the best; and with beer in the place of
tea it mayn't look altogether like breakfast over again."

He was stepping into the passage when she touched his sleeve in sudden
contrition.

"I didn't mention it before, sir; but hearing as the sailors had
brought up her boxes, she outs with this and asks me to give it to them
for their trouble."

Mrs. Treacher held out a golden sovereign. The Commandant stared at it.

"You kept it back?" he gasped.

"I had to, sir. A couple of ignorant seamen--that didn't want it,
either!"

"Give it to me!"

"There's one blessing--you can't possibly overtake 'em," said Mrs.
Treacher, as the Commandant snatched the coin.

He gazed down the hill, and decided that to this extent she was right.
With one hand gripping the sovereign, and the other lifted to his
distraught brow, the Commandant strode to the room where Vashti sat at
breakfast. She looked up and welcomed him with a gay smile.


CHAPTER XI

PLAN OF CAMPAIGN


Vashti sat on the low stone wall beyond the Keg of Butter Battery and
gazed out over the twinkling Sound and the Islands. The wall ran along
the edge of the cliff and moreover was ruinous, as the Commandant had
cautioned her when she chose her perch.

For a while she did not appear to have heard him, but sat with lips
half-parted as though they drank in their native air, and with eyes
half-closed--but whether in mere delight or because through the present
they were looking into the past, the Commandant could not determine.
She had invited him after breakfast to conduct her round the old
fortifications, and he had done so in some dread of her questions and
comments. But she had asked scarcely a question and made no comment at
all. She was thinking less of the change in his batteries and defences
than of the change in him, as with a deeper knowledge of women he might
have divined. In the inanimate work of man's hands woman takes no real
interest, whatever she may feign, but of man himself she is insatiably
curious and critical. So while the Commandant, moving with her from one
battery to another, had halted and stared down on the grass-grown
platforms, ashamed and half-afraid lest by lifting his eyes he should
challenge her pity, he missed to perceive and missed altogether to
guess that hers were occupied in taking note of him, of his thread-bare
coat, of the stoop of his shoulders, of the whitened hair brushed back
from his temples.

They had made the round of the batteries in almost complete silence;
and coming to the wall above the Keg of Butter she had perched herself
there and bent her eyes seaward.

She may or may not have been aware that this gave him opportunity to
take stock of her in his turn, and that he was using it very
deliberately, letting his gaze travel over her profile, or so much of
it as she presented to him, and so from point to point of her attire
down to her well-made walking shoes--all with a kind of grave wonder.
Once only he glanced up and to the northward, where low on the horizon
a faint line of smoke lingered in the wake of the _Milo_, already
hull-down on her way; and his glance seemed to ask for assurance that
he was not dreaming, that the steamship had really come and gone and
left him this unaccountable guest.

It was just at this moment that she answered him.

"Yes, I can easily understand that you feel it," she said in a musing
tone.

"Eh?" The Commandant had almost forgotten his warning about the ruinous
state of the wall. His eyes had wandered back from the horizon to the
close coils of hair above her neck and to the lobe of her small ear
which (as he found himself noting) had never been pierced to admit an
earring. She turned, and as she caught his gaze he blushed in no little
confusion.

With the point of her sunshade she indicated the deserted battery on
his left.

"Though I suppose," she went on, still musing, "all these
fortifications were really out of date for years before Government
dismantled them."

"If that were true," he replied, "it would date my uselessness further
back than ever."

"Your uselessness?" she echoed, and now it was her eyes that expressed
a grave wonder. "But you were Governor of the Islands; and you are
Governor still, are you not?"

"These batteries," he went on hastily, "though antiquated, were never
out of date, never useless; and there will be reason enough to regret
them if ever an enemy's squadron makes a pounce on the Islands."

"Poor little Islands!" Vashti looked across the Sound with a smile. "It
seems almost comic somehow that anyone should dream of attacking them!"

"Ah!" said he, almost bitterly, "you have been living in great cities
and enlarging your mind."

"And in great cities, you imply, it is easy to despise, to forget?" She
laughed softly. "Brefar--Saaron--Inniscaw!" she murmured, addressing
the Islands by name, "here is one who tells me I forget you! Sir, we
will take a boat this very day, and I will sail you out to the Off
Islands and prove to you if I forget."

"There is no need, Miss Vashti"--he hesitated over the "Miss," but she
did not correct him, and he went on more boldly. "I had a talk this
morning with Captain Whitaker, of the _Milo_."

Vashti looked up with a quick smile. "He told you?... I am so glad!
Yes, yes: I did not in the least want to have all those passengers
crowding around me and paying me ridiculous compliments. But false
modesty is another thing altogether, and I don't mind telling you I am
quite inordinately proud of myself."

"You have a right to be."

"--as I don't mind confessing that I was horribly afraid at the time.
But I am glad again, that Captain Whitaker told you. It was pretty
good--eh?--after fifteen years."

She asked it frankly; not archly at all, but with a sudden earnest look
that seemed to hold some sadness; and before the Commandant could reply
this sadness grew and became so real that he wondered at his having
doubted it at first glance.

"Fifteen years!" she went on. "We all have a quarrel against time, we
men and women, but on grounds so different that a man scarcely
understands a woman's grievance nor a woman a man's. With you it all
rests in your work. Fifteen years knock holes in your fortifications,
tumble your guns into the sea, send along a new generation of men to
pull down what you have built, to rebuild in a flurry of haste, and see
their work in its turn criticised and condemned by yet a new company of
builders. At this we women only look on and marvel. Why all this fuss,
we ask, over what you do? Why all this hopeful, hopeless craving to
leave something permanent? The Islands, here, will outlast anything you
can build. I come back after fifteen years, and they are unchanged;
they would be unchanged were I to come back after a hundred. The same
rocks, the same bracken, the same hum of the tides; the same flowers;
the same blue here, below us, the same outline of a spear-head there,
beyond St. Ann's, where the tide forces through the slack water; the
same streak of yellow yonder on the south cliffs of Saaron.... Our
grievance is more personal, more real ... and so should yours be, if
you could only see it. It is to ourselves--to you and me, to any man
and woman--that time makes the difference. You worry over your
fortifications. Why? It is in ourselves that the tragedy lies. To lose
our looks, our voice--to grow old and mumble--" She broke off with a
shiver.

The Commandant smiled sadly. He had too much sense to pay an idle
compliment. "If that be the tragedy, Miss Vashti," said he, "then we
are wise in our folly, which bids us rest our hopes in our work though
its permanence be all an illusion. Finally, the series also came to
us, we came over hills, through valleys, past vineyards, where you
also probably refreshed.

It was subsequently clarified to hour in a freer country and saw a friendly
valley of Aire Castle Grandpré at a height very well located, just
at the point where the river is called the west between the hills
pushes to the opposite side of the mountain with the Aisne to join their
waters, always the sun, through the intermediary of the Oise finally
get into the Seine, giving as evidence that the mountain back to
us from the Meuse separated, though not by significant amounts, but
of decisive influence on the river, we flow into a different
region was capable necessary. On this train, I accidentally came in the
wake of the King, then Duke of Brunswick, I amused myself with
Prince Reuss and other diplomatic and military contacts.

These riders masses made the pleasant countryside to a rich
staffage, you would have a van der Meulen wanted to train to
perpetuate such: it was sunny, cheerful, full of confidence and
heroic.

Some villages were burning in front of us, but the smoke is doing in a
war picture is not bad. It was, it was said, from the houses on the
Vortrab shot and this, according to martial law, once the self-revenge
practiced. It was rebuked, but was not to change, while it was in
protecting the vineyards from which the owner but not a big promise
could read, and so it went between friend and hostile demeanor always
forward. We arrived, leaving behind us Grandpré , and on the Aisne
and camped at Vaux les Mouron, here we were now in the infamous
Champagne, it looked so bad but still not enough.

Above the water on the sunny side lasted well kept vineyards, and
where villages and barns visitierte, there were enough food for
humans and animals, but unfortunately not the wheat ausgedroschen,
even less enough mills, ovens for baking were also rare, and so it
really caught on, in a condition approaching Tantale.

On 18 September. Likewise considerations to be made, assembled a large
company, even where it stops there, always with some confidence, especially
during afternoon coffee together to it consisted of whimsical
elements, Germans and French, warriors and diplomats, all significant
persons, learned, wise, witty, excited by the importance of the
moment, men, all of value and dignity, but not in the inner Council
considered and therefore the more tried to auszusinnen, which decided
that what could happen.

Dumouriez when he the pass of Grandpré could no longer hold, had
the Aisne hinaufgzeogen, and since he's back by Islettes secured,
to the heights of Sainte Menehould, the front against France.

We were through the narrow pass hereingedrungen had uneroberte
festivals: Sedan, Montmédy Stenay, in the back and side to us after
each injection were Beleiben difficult.

We entered the worst weather in a strange land whose ungrateful
limestone only scanty ausgestreute localities could eat.

Admittedly was Rheims, Chalons, and blessed their environments are not
far away, you could hope to recover forward, convinced the company
is therefore almost unanimously that march to Reims and Chalons'
must conquer; Dumouriez could be beneficial in his position then
do not behave calmly, a battle would be inevitable, where it may
be, it was thought they already won it. 19 September.

Some concerns were, therefore, when we were 19 beordert were on our
massive train, to the Aisne and up to this water as well as the
forest mountains, closer or further, to keep the left hand side.

Now you are recovering on such thoughtful consideration by many
coincidences and events, a serene Participation donated, and a miraculous
phenomenon moved my whole attention. One had to select multiple columns
side by side continued to push across a run on low hills, as though,
as you should be back to the valley, found a steep slope, which was
now soon, so good it wanted to go, abgeböscht, but he remained still
harsh enough.

Well just came for lunch overlooking a sun, and reflected in all rifles.
I was at a height and saw those flashing weapons shiny river used,
but it was surprising, as the column on the steep slope was where
the dramatic elements previously closed or separated, and each
individual, as well as he could, in the depth to go looking .

This mess was entirely the notion of a waterfall, a plethora of confused
and contradictory way flashing bayonets designated the liveliest
movement.

And now at the bottom of the foot are all equal in rank again and limb
and ordered as they top, now back in fortzogen valley, was the idea of
a river is always lively, but this phenomenon was even more pleasant
than their long duration and continued on through the sun glances
benefited, whose value is doubtful in such long hours after deprivation
certainly learned to appreciate.

In the afternoon we finally arrived after massive, only a few hours
from the enemy and the camp was disconnected, and we related to our
specific area. Already piles were beaten, the horses drangebunden,
fire kindled, and the kitchen did to cars. Quite unexpectedly, therefore,
came the rumor that the camp should not have because it was the message
arrived, the French army from Sainte Zeihen Menehould at Chalons;
the king wanted them not escape and therefore command to leave
where I was looking right at the forge and heard thereon certainty
that what I already had heard only the words: in this uncertain and
improbable message is the Duke of Weimar and General Heymann is with
the hussars, the anxiety aroused, proceeded. After some time these
generals came back and insured that it was not the slightest movement
should be noted, even those patrols had to admit that they are more
closed than Reported had seen. The suggestion, however, was once given,
and the command was that the army should move, but without the least
baggage, everything should be up wagon Maisons Champagne return, there
are wagons and how to advance continued, happy to wait for outcome
of a battle. Not for a moment doubtful what to do, I left the cart,
baggage and horses my firm, diligent servant and put me with the war
comrades alsobald on horseback. It was previously raised on
several occasions that those who are in a war taking quite regulated
at the troops, what department it may be, to which it is connected
, remain fixed and is not likely to be afraid: for what concerns
us as well, had always been honorable, so in the case of luggage,
while bullish or otherwise to use, both dangerous and shameful.

And so I also had with the officers of the regiment abgeredet that I am
always on them and perhaps to connect Leibschwadron wanted, because it
such a nice and good relationship only getting better be fastened. The
road was the small water Tourbe presaged up through the valley of
the saddest in the world, between low hills, without trees and
bushes, it was ordered and eingeschärft, in silence, to march, as
if we wanted to surprise the enemy, but of his position in the
approaching a mass of fifty thousand men probably have liked.

The night fell, neither moon nor stars shone in the sky, it whistled
a desert wind, the silent movement of such a large number of people
in deep darkness was a very Own. By next column herritt, we met several
well-known officers, the back and resist blasted to the movement of
the march soon accelerate, retard soon. We discussed, you still heals,
it is gathered. Sun had a circle of maybe twelve friends and unknowns
together, they asked, complained, wundete is scolded and räsonierte:
the disturbed lunch with the captain could not forgive. A mood guest
wanted sausage and bread, while another jumped simultaneously with his
wishes to Rehbraten and anchovy salad, because it all happened but
unpaid, it is not lacking in pies and other Leckebissen, not in the
most delicious wines, and a banquet was so A complete together, that
at last one, whose appetite has become overly busy, the whole
society, and cursed the torment of an excited imagination, in
contrast to the largest defect scolded quite unbearable. Man lost
apart, and the individual was not better off than all together.
19 September night. So we came up Tourbe Somme, where they stopped, and
the king was assigned in an inn, before whose door the Duke of Brunswick
in a kind of arbor and headquarters office was built. The place was
great, it burned more fire, by large bundle lively wine stakes
even entertain.

The Field Marshal Lord censured several times personally, that the flame
will blaze leave too much, we talked about that, and nobody wanted
to believe that our proximity to the French had remained a mystery.

I had arrived too late and wants me to scout the vicinity, as I wanted,
everything was where not to eat, but took possession. By then I
umherforschte gave me a smart kitchen Emigrated drama: they sat around
a large, round, flat, abglimmenden ash pile in which some crackling
wine liked dissolved; klüglich and quickly they had all the eggs in the
village takes possession, and it looked really appetizing, like the
eggs in the ash heap of upright standing side by side and one after
the other to the right time schlurfbar was removed. I knew nobody vond
en fine cuisine Gesellen, unknown like 'I do not respond, but when I
just met a dear friend, as good as I was suffering from hunger and thirst,
fell me a Kriegslist, after a remark that I on my short military career
opportunity to be had.

I had noticed that when you Furagieren to the villages and in almost
the same tölpisch procedures: the first fell Andringenden a took
away spoiled, destroyed, the following were always less, and what
was lost, nobody was benefiting.

I was thinking that we take this opportunity to strategically proceed
and, if the amount of hereindringe front, from the opposite side
after some scout should desire. This could now hardly the case here,
because everything was flooded, but the village was greatly in length,
and sideways of the road, where we came. I called my friend on the street
with long go down. From the penultimate house was a soldier cursing
out that absorbed everything and nowhere have nothing more to it.
We looked through the windows, because a few hunters sat very
still, we went into it, at least on a bench to sit under a roof,
we welcomed them as comrades, and indeed complained about the general
shortage.

After some back and cons speeches they demanded that we should promise
them confidentiality, which we gave the hand.

Now they are opened to us that they are in the house a beautiful,
well appointed cellar found whose entrance they even secreted, we
have the stock of a share would not fail.

One pulled a key out, and after various obstacles were cleared away, a
cellar door to open. Down by multiple threads, we now zweieimerige
around barrels at the camp, but what we more interested in various
departments in laid sand-filled bottles, where the good-natured fellow,
who had already durchprobiert, to the best variety dismissed. I
took between the fingers of each hand ausgespreizten two bottles,
put them under the mantle, as does my friend, and we exceeded it,
in hope of early Erquickung the road again hinaufwärts.

Immediately on large Wachfeuer I saw a heavy, heavy harrow, sat me
and pushed it under my coat bottles between the prongs inside.

After some time, brought 'I have a bottle show, because of my neighbors
"made, which I immediately offered the Mitgenuss. They did good moves,
the last modest, probably because he realized he let me back very
little, I hid the bottle next to me soon afterwards and took the
second out, drank the delights to which what was once probably would
taste, initially the miracle not noticed at the third wrong but
according to the Warlock aufschrieen, and it was in this sad
situation, a welcome to all manner joke.

Among the many people whose shape and face in a circle of fire was
lit, seen 'I elderly man, whom I know to be believed.

According to Information and closer, he was not a little surprised to see
me here. It was Marquis of Bombelles, which I established two years
ago in Venice, the duchess Amalie Following aufgewartet had, where
he, as a French resident envoy to matter most was that this excellent
princess to stay as pleasant as possible. Mutual Verwunderungsausruf,
joy of reunion and remembrance exhilarated this grave moment.
Language came to be magnificent dwelling at the big channel: it was
praised, as we daselbst in gondolas start-up, received honorable and
friendly hosts have been as determined by small parties, especially
in the taste and sense of this, nature and art, serenity and decorum
in link-loving lady, she and the many ways to yours happy, even through
his influence many others, for strangers else can enjoy good sealed.
How much but I was surprised because I did, I through a veritable panegyric
to amuse thought, with melancholy cry heard: "we are silenced by those
things! That time is just not too far behind me, and even then, as my
noble guests amused with apparent cheerfulness, nagte the worm on my
heart: I saw the consequences ahead of what my mother was experiencing.
I admired your carelessness in you are also the imminent danger of you
did not know, and I quietly prepared myself to change my status.

Soon afterwards have I honored my item and the cost to leave Venice
and an odyssey ending, which I eventually led here.

"The mystery that can reveal this Heranzug from time to time, want to
give, let us assume that we will still on this night break and go
forward, just the day dawned, and with the same stressed, therefore,
a drizzle, it was already quite bright, as we set in motion.

Because of the Duke of Weimar Vortrab the regiment had been one of
Leibschwadron, than the front of the whole column, with the hussars,
the way our determination should know.

Now it went, sometimes in sharp trot through fields and hills without
bush and tree, and only left in the distance saw the Argonne Forest area,
the proposed drizzle us in the face of intense, but soon saw a
Pappelallee, which has grown very nicely and well maintained, our average
transverse direction. It was the road from Chalons to Sainte Menehould,
the way from Paris to Germany, it took us away and into drüber Gray
inside. Previously, we had the enemy before the waldichten area and
stored aufmarschiert seen, not less was noted that new troops arrived:
it was Kellermann, who recently reunited with Dumouriez to its
left wing to form.

The Ours burned before craving, on the French loszugehen, officers saw
the Church as fervent desire, the captain may wish at this moment to
attack, but our violent encroachment seemed to suggest. But Kellermann
had asked to be beneficial, and now began the cannonade, which was
much told, however, the current violence can not describe it, not
even in the imagination can call back.

Chaussee was already far behind us, we continually beat against the West,
than to one aide was dynamited, the beordete us back: we had our widely
held, and now we received the command, again on the road and return
immediately to their left side, the right wing to oppose.

It happened, and so we made against the front Vorwerk La Lune, which
is based on the amount, about a quarter of an hour before us, on the
road was to be seen. Our commanders came to us he had just half a battery
horse hinaufgebracht, we were given the order, the protection of
that to go forward, and found on an old Schirrmeister, outstretched,
as the first victim of the day on which are arable.

On sunny days they scattered and turned it, on wet
days they banked it into heaps almost as tall as arrish-mows. From
morning until evening they laboured, and towards midsummer, as the near
beaches became denuded, would tail away, in twos and threes, and whole
families, to camp among the Off Islands and raid them; until, when
August came and the kelping season drew to an end, boat after boat
would arrive at high-water and discharge its burden.

These operations filled the summer days; but it was towards nightfall
that the real fun began. For then the men, women, and children would
gather and build the kilns--pits scooped in the sand, measuring about
seven feet across and three feet deep in the centre. While the men
finished lining the sides of the kiln with stones, the women and girls
would leap into it with armfuls of furze; which they lighted and so,
strewing the dried ore-weed upon it, built little by little into a
blazing pile. The great sea-lights which ring the Islands now make a
brave show; but (say the older inhabitants) it will not compare with
the illuminations of bygone summer nights, when as many as forty kilns
would be burning together, and island signalling to island with
bonfire-lights that flickered across the roadsteads and danced on the
wild tide-races. From four to five hours the kilns would be kept
burning, and the critical moment came when the mass of kelp began to
liquefy, and word was given to "strike." Then a dozen or fourteen men
would leap down with pitchforks and heave the red molten mass from side
to side of the kiln, toiling like madmen, while the sweat ran shining
down their half-naked bodies; and sometimes--and always on Midsummer
Eve, which is Baal-fire night--while they laboured the women and girls
would join hands and dance round the pit. In ten minutes or so all this
excitement would die out, the dancers unlock their hands the men climb
out of the pit and throw themselves panting on the sand, leaving the
kelp to settle, cool, and vitrify. But while it lasted the boy knew of
no excitement comparable with it. Little wonder that he remembered
those fiery pits with the dark figures dancing around their brims! But
yet more unforgettable was the smell of the burning kelp had been more
than enough--that acrid, all-permeating, unforgettable odour. His
mother had never been able to endure it. When the wind drove the smoke
from the beach, she would shut every door and window, and build up
every crevice with a barricade of sandbags; all in vain. It crept into
the house, choking the besieged, causing their eyes to smart and their
heads to ache, and scenting clothes, linen, furniture. Even the food
tasted of it.

The kelp-making, however, was but a memory now, though a pungent one. A
night's work at the kiln produced from two to three hundred-weight, and
the price in the good seasons ranged from £4 to £5 a ton; so many
shared the labour that a family had much ado to earn £10 in a whole
season. Under such conditions, too, the work was roughly done. Too
often the sides of the kiln would fall in and the sand--always the
curse of Saaron--would mingle with the kelp and spoil it. And when some
wiser folk in Scotland learned to prepare it under cover, in ovens with
paved floors, the Islanders lost their market, almost in a single
season.

Tregarthen could recall the kelp-making, but neither the circumstances
of the collapse nor the sufferings that followed it. Children observe
the toil, but are usually quite blind to the troubles of their elders.
He only knew that the poorer families almost of a sudden drifted away
from Saaron, that he and his father and mother were left alone on the
island, that his father had begun to busy himself with farming and
required his help, and that in consequence he was released from
lessons. His mother, a farmer's daughter from Holy Vale in St.
Lide's--the one nook in the Islands where you lost sight and almost
sound of the sea, and could look out of window upon green trees--was a
better-most person and something of a scholar. (The Tregarthens had
always gone to the main island for their wives.) She taught the boy to
read, to write a little, and even to cipher up sums in addition and
subtraction. Also she took him over to Brefar to church on every fine
Sunday and taught him his catechism, on the chance (often rumoured)
that the Bishop would come across from the mainland to hold a
Confirmation. But the Bishop of those days had a weak stomach, and, on
the advice of his doctor, kept postponing the voyage.

Thus the boy grew up into a strong, slow man, gentle of manners, shy of
the sound of his own voice, but tenacious of purpose and stubborn when
his will was crossed. Except for the few months when he went wooing
after Ruth Cara--in the year after his mother's death--his life, hopes,
purposes, dreams and waking thoughts concentrated themselves upon
Saaron, and from the day he brought his bride home to it the island
became more than ever his sufficing world. He knew a thousand small
things concerning it--secrets of the soil, of the tides, of the sand
drift--voices of the wind, varying colours of the sea, and what weather
they foretold--where this moss grew, that bird nested--in what week the
wild duck arrived, on what wind the geese might be looked for, and what
feeling in the spring air announced that the guillemots were due. He
had learnt these things unconsciously, and was quite unaware of his
knowledge, having never an occasion to review it or put it into words.
Moreover, it was strangely limited. To his ancestors, to the folk who
had lived here before him, he never gave a thought, except to wonder
what their tillage had been or why they had rounded off a hedge at such
and such a corner. Of the history of his own farm-house he could tell
you next to nothing, and nothing at all of the small ruined church he
passed at least twice a day--though this testified that Saaron had been
populous once on a time. How long had the Tregarthens lived on the
Island? How far back beyond the five or six generations attested by the
signatures on old leases hidden away in his strong-box? One might as
well ask how long the sandpipers and oyster-catchers had bred on their
separate grounds under the north slope of the cliffs towards Brefar. On
the summit of the hill stood eleven mounds, and in each mound (so
tradition said) lay the burnt bones of royalty. Was he, perhaps,
descended from these Island kings? Tregarthen would not have given
sixpence to discover. They were dead, and less than names: the place of
their burial belonged to him, and he had to wring a livelihood from it
to support his wife and family. Sometimes, when he thought of his three
youngsters--of the boy especially--the man felt a vague longing which
puzzled him as well by its foolishness as by its strength; a longing to
pass, when his time came, into these barren acres and watch (though
helplessly) while his heir improved what he had painfully won. It was
absurd, of course, to desire any such perpetuity; wicked, perhaps. It
could not be reconciled with heaven and the future life promised by the
Bible. Yet it haunted him, though at rare intervals, and not
importunately. To the past he gave never a thought.

Ruth Tregarthen, his wife, was one of those women who find their
happiness within their own doors. The farm-house stood some way up the
slope of the southern hill, facing eastward over the valley which
curved a little at its feet and spread into a line of small flat
meadows around the East Bay, where the farmer kept his two boats; and
the site had been chosen here to avoid the seas which, with a gale
falling on top of the equinoctial springs, are driven up the valley
from east and west, and meet to form an isthmus, cutting the Island in
two.

The state-rooms of the farm-house--parlour, hall, and best
bedrooms--looked eastward upon Cromwell's Sound; but the waters of the
Sound were hidden from the lower windows by a stout hedge of tamarisk.
The kitchen window at the back--by far the largest in the house, as the
kitchen itself, where the family took its meals on every day but
Christmas Day and Good Friday, was the true focus of the
household--looked across the town-place, or farm-yard, upon another
tall hedge of tamarisk, above which climbed the hill, steep, strewn
with small white stones, shutting out the Atlantic.

The kitchen table stood close beside this window, just beyond the edge
of the bacon-rack; and directly opposite, across the wide paved floor,
was a wide open hearth, fitted with crooks and brandises, where all the
day long something or other would be cooking, and where the night
through the logs smouldered and fell in soft grey ash, to be fed and
stirred to flame again in the early morning. Yes, and as though this
was not enough, the hearth had beside it an iron door which, being
opened, disclosed to the children a long narrow hole filled with fire;
vision to them of a passage leading straight to hell, though their own
mother (and she so gentle) stoked it with bunches of furze, and drew
from it loaves and saffron cakes, hot and detectable.

To the children it seemed that their parents seldom or never talked,
and never by any chance took a rest.

Their names were Annet, Linnet and Matthew Henry, and this was the
order of their ages--Annet nine, Linnet seven, and Matthew Henry rising
five. On fine days they attended school at Inniscaw, being rowed to and
fro across the Sound by John Nanjulian (Old Jan), the hind, or Stevy,
the farm-boy. These, with Melia Mundy, the house-girl, whose parents
lived on Brefar, made up Farmer Tregarthen's employ, and took their
meals at table with the family.

The school which Annet, Linnet, and Matthew Henry attended had been
built by the Lord Proprietor on Inniscaw shore, to serve the three
islands of Inniscaw, Brefar, and Saaron. The children brought their
school-pence weekly, on Friday mornings; but, of course, their pence
did not pay--scarcely even began to pay--for the cost. Also there were
days, and sometimes many days together, when no boat could be put
across; and, considering this, the Lord Proprietor (who was a
philanthropist in his way, but his way happened to be a despotic one)
had commanded his architect to prepare plans for a smaller school on
Brefar. This, to be sure, would not help the three children on Saaron;
but it gave him yet another reason to feel indignant with that fellow
Tregarthen for clinging so obstinately to his solitude and barren
acres.

The children themselves did not regret living so far from school; for
they were ordinary healthy youngsters though brighter-witted than most,
and felt as other youngsters feel towards that wise and elderly
beneficence which boxes them up in a room for instruction. To be sure
they missed the games in the play-ground before and after school; but
this was no such loss as the reader, remembering his own childhood,
might be disposed to think. For, sad to tell, only a few of the
hundreds of thousands of children attending schools really understand
games, or can be said to have learnt to play, and the Island children
were in this respect some way behind their brothers and sisters on the
mainland. If at whiles the small trio looked back wistfully as old Jan
rowed them homeward, or if the shouts that followed across the water
from the playground now and again reproached them, on the whole they
would not have changed places with their school-fellows even at a
price. After all, no island in the world could compare with Saaron.
Their father had never said this, but they were sure that he thought
it; and their father knew everything. As he walked along he would say
suddenly, "Go there"--but without lifting his eyes, just waving his
hand towards the spot--"and there you will find a bunting's nest, or a
stone-chat's"; nor once in a dozen times would he be mistaken.

There were compensations, too, in living on an island where on any
morning you might wake and find a gale of wind blowing, forbidding you
to go to school. But even in fine weather one could always look forward
to Saturday and Sunday, each a whole holiday.

It was Saturday. The three had opened their eyes soon after daybreak
and lay in their cots "chirruping," as their mother called it--talking,
planning out a campaign of adventures for the long two days before
them. The sun shone through their nursery window, which faced the East.
They had curled themselves to sleep before the great fog came up and
covered the Islands, and the sound of guns had neither awakened them
nor reached their dreams. They awoke to a clear morning sky, and while
they chatted, waiting the order to tumble out and dress, their father
looked in at the nursery door and astonished and excited them with news
of a great steamer which had entered the Roads in the night and was
already lifting anchor to pursue her voyage.

From the hill above the farmhouse they watched her, after breakfast, as
she steamed past the southern point of the island, nosed her way slowly
through Chough Sound, between Inniscaw and St. Lide's, and so headed
away to the northward until her smoke lay in a low trail on the
horizon. They had never before seen a steamer of her size.

Thus strangely began a day which the three had still stranger cause to
remember. They had planned to take their dinner wrapped in their
handkerchiefs and climb to the old tombs on the hill overlooking
Brefar, then to play at being Aztecs, from hints which Annet had dug
out of an old History of Mexico on her mother's bookshelf, and at
hiding treasure from the Spaniards, whose ships were to come sailing
through the Off Islands. Having concealed their hoard, they were either
to descend upon the Western Bay, which they called The Porth, and there
offer a bloody resistance to the invaders, or (this was Annet's notion,
which for the present she kept to herself) to wait until the north
channel dried and make a desperate escape across the sands to Brefar.
The trouble was, she could not be sure of low water being early enough
to let them dash across and back before dusk again. She was a brave
girl--a great deal braver, at least in these adventures, than her
sister Linnet; but she had to bear in mind that Matthew Henry was but
five years old and easily tired, and also that if they arrived home
after dusk her mother would be anxious and her father angry. So she
nursed the project in her own heart, and when the three had taken
seizin of the northern hill, eaten their manchets of saffron cake, and
shared their canful of milk, she took up a post from which, while the
others scanned the offing for Spaniards, she could watch and time the
ebb of the tide on the flats.

The afternoon was sunny; the flat rock on which they were perched lay
out of the wind's reach; and to beguile the interval of waiting Annet
drew out a book which she had brought with her--a much-worn copy of
Hans Andersen which had arrived at Christmas, three years ago, as a
gift from that mysterious Aunt Vazzy of whom their mother talked so
often. Linnet stoutly maintained that this aunt of theirs, whom they
had never set eyes on, must be a fairy herself--neither more nor less;
and Annet had her doubts on this point. But the book, at any rate, was
real, with a real inscription on the fly-leaf; and the children (though
some of the stories puzzled them) believed it to be the most beautiful
book in the world.

Each child had a favourite story. Matthew Henry's was "The Tinder-Box,"
and he would wake in the night from dreams, deliciously terrible, of
the three dogs "with eyes as big as coach wheels." Linnet, who had a
practical mind, preferred such as dealt with rolling-pins, flat-irons,
and shirt-collars, because these were familiar objects, and their
histories usually ended cheerfully--(she liked "The Ugly Duckling"
because he was a duckling, but objected to much of the tale as being
too sad). Annet declared for "The Little Mermaid," which is perhaps the
saddest of all; and this was the one she chose to-day, though
half-penitently, because she felt pretty certain that it would make
Linnet cry.

But to-day Linnet no sooner recognized the opening of the story than
she set her face defiantly; and when Annet reached that most pathetic
passage where the little mermaid glances down sorrowfully at her fish's
tail, and "Let us be merry," says the grandmother, "let us dance and
play for the three hundred years we have to live," Linnet lifted her
chin, stared hard at the horizon and said resolutely--albeit in a voice
that trembled a little--

"I don't believe there are any such things as mermaids!"

Young Matthew Henry opened his mouth and stared, round-eyed at such
dreadful scepticism.

Annet, too, gazed up from her book.

"But the story says there are," she answered, simply and gravely.

"Who ever saw one?" persisted doubting Linnet.

"Hundreds of people--" Annet began, and with that, as a shadow fell on
the rock, she lifted her eyes and uttered a little cry.

Just above, on the flat tombstone that jutted over the ridge, stood a
beautiful lady, and looked down on them.


CHAPTER XIII

THE LADY FROM THE SEA


How it happened the children never precisely knew. When they came to
compare notes that evening their recollections varied on several
important particulars. But this was certain, that before they could
rise and run--and Matthew Henry protested that, for his part, he had
never an idea of running--the apparition had stepped down from her
pedestal and seated herself among them in the friendliest way.

"Good day!" she nodded. "Now let me see ... this is Annet, and this is
Linnet, and that is Matthew Henry, and I hope you're all uncommonly
well."

Annet gasped that they were quite well, thank you. Who and what could
she be, this lady out of nowhere?... Not a witch, for no witch could
smile with such a beautiful face or wear such beautiful clothes. On the
other hand, Annet had not supposed that fairies were ever so tall. Yet
something of the sort she must be, for she knew their names....

"You want to know where I come from? But that is easy." The stranger
reached out a white hand with a diamond upon it, and Annet yielded the
book to her without resisting. "I come from here"--and she tapped the
pages mysteriously.

"But how can that be?" demanded Linnet, who was always the
matter-of-fact one. "Out of a book! Such things do not happen."

Vashti laughed merrily. "I assure you," she answered, with a glance at
the fly-leaf, "I have been in the book all the while you were reading;
and," she added, her eyes softening as they rested on the child, "of
you three it is Linnet who is most like her mother."

They had not thought of this before, but she had no sooner said it than
they knew it to be the truth; and the discovery made her more
marvellous than ever.

"Yes," she went on, "I have lived inside this book; and, what is more,
I know the man who wrote it."

She looked around on the three faces; and--so strange are children--for
the first time in his life Matthew Henry at once asserted himself as a
person entirely different from his sisters. For Annet and Linnet merely
looked puzzled; to them the book was a book, just as the hill upon
which they sat was a hill, and they had never troubled their heads
about such a thing as an author. But Matthew Henry opened his infantine
eyes still wider.

"Tell us about him," he demanded.

Vashti eyed the child curiously for a moment before answering. "He
lives in the north," she said, "in a city where the sea is sometimes
frozen for weeks in the winter, and where night after night you may see
the Northern Lights over the roofs. That is why he writes so much of
snow and fir-trees and cold winters."

Annet nodded. "I have seen the Northern Lights--once--from Saaron
here," she announced proudly. "Father took me out of my bed and held me
up to the window to look at them; Linnet, too--but she was too young to
remember, and Matthew Henry was not even born at the time."

"But tell us," persisted Matthew Henry, "about the man who wrote the
book."

"Well, the Northern Lights were shining in the streets on the night
when I met him. I drove to his house in a sleigh from the theatre--if
you know what a theatre is?" Vashti paused dubiously; but Annet nodded
and assured her--

"That's all right. We don't know about these things, but they are all
in the book."

"And so," said Vashti, "is the man himself, or most of him. He was a
queer, shy old man, with oddly-shaped hands and feet, but oh, such
timid eyes! And he lived in a fine house all by himself, for he had no
wife. In the days when he wanted a wife he had been an Ugly Duckling,
and now, when he had turned into a swan, it was too late to marry. He
was very old indeed; but this was his birthday, and he had lit up all
his rooms for us and made a great feast, and at the feast he made me
sit on his right hand.... There were princesses to do him honour, but
he chose me out because I had sung to him; and the princesses were not
angry because he was an old man. Out in the streets the people were
letting off fireworks, and while he talked to me I could hear the whole
sky banging with rockets and crackers. It put me in mind of his story
of 'The Flying Trunk.' But he talked of Italy and the South, because I
had come from there; and of the Mediterranean and of beautiful inland
lakes which he had known, but would never see again; for he was over
seventy. And he told me that, in spite of the snow and frost outside,
he could feel the spring coming northward again with the storks. It was
the last time (he said) that he should ever see it, but he filled his
glass and drank to me because, as he put it, I had sung the South back
to him for this last time. So now you know why I was proud to come to
you out of his book."

"But," said Linnet, gravely, "we were reading about mermaids; and you
can't be one of _them_, because there aren't any."

Matthew Henry would by no means allow this. "But Jan's father caught
one," he objected, "in a pool just inside Piper's Hole, where she was
left by the tide. He has told us about her, dozens of times. And
besides," he added, getting in a home-thrust, "if there isn't any such
thing, why were you crying over the story, just now?"

"I wasn't," contended Linnet, very red in the face. But she shifted her
ground. "Why," pointing to Vashti's skirts--"her clothes aren't even
wet, to say nothing of a tail!"

Vashti laughed. "My dears, you are both right and both wrong. As for
the mermaids, Linnet, they were friends of mine before I reached your
age, and you must let me introduce you to one by-and-by, to cure you of
disbelieving. But you are right about me. I am not a mermaid; and yet I
have come from the sea ... like the Queen Zenobia."

"Who was she?" asked Annet, speaking for the others.

"She was a Queen in Carthage, more than two thousand years ago. She
came to the Islands in a ship, to visit the tin-mines which used to lie
between them and the mainland before the sea covered them, and from
which she drew her great wealth. Her ship arrived in the middle of the
Great Storm; and before she came to land, here on Saaron, the waters
were rolling over the richest part of all her dependencies. Little she
cared; for in the first place she had never seen it, and could not
realise her loss, and moreover her ship had been tossing for three days
and nights, past all hope, so that she was glad enough to reach a
shore, however barren. She reached it, holding on to the shoulders of a
brown man, a Moor, who swam for land as the ship began to break up; and
the story goes that when his feet touched the sand he fell forward and
died, for the swimming had burst his heart. But have you never heard
the song about it?" Vashti sank her voice and began to chant, and low
though the strain was, and monotonous, the children had never heard
such wonderful singing--

    It was the Queen Zenobia
      With her gold crown,
    That sailed away from Africa
      With a down-derry-down!

    --To westward and to northward
      From Carthage town,
    Beyond the strait of Cadiz
      The sky began to frown.

    "Well-a-mercy!" cried her ladies,
      All of high renown;
    "I think the sea is troublesome
      And we shall all drown."

    The seas came white aboard
      And wetted her gown;
    "Would I were back in Carthage
      A-walking up and down!

    That I were back in Carthage
      Which is dry ground,
    I would give my jewels
      And a thousand pound."

    Then round went the good ship,
      And thrice she went round,
    The third time she brast herself
      With a down-derry-down!

    Some cried misericordia,
      And others did swoun;
    But up there stood a guardsman
      A naked man and brown--

    "You are the Queen of Carthage
      And gey young to drown;
    But hold you to my girdle
      That goes me around;
    And swim with me to Saaron,
      As I will be bound."

    "Your girdle it is breaking
      That goeth you around."
    "Nay, hold you to the girdle
      That is strong yet and sound;
    My heart you felt a-breaking,
    But here is dry ground."

    With white sand and shingle
      The shore did abound;
    With white sand she covered him
      And built him a mound.

    With flotsam and with wreckage
      The shore was all strown;
    She built of it a cottage,
      And there she sat down.

    "Though this be not Africa,
      Nor yet Carthage town,
    Deo-gracey," said Zenobia,
      "That I did not drown!"

"That's where the tune changes," interrupted Matthew Henry, clapping
his small sunburnt hands together.

"You know the song then?" asked Vashti, looking from one to the other.

All three nodded. "We know a verse or two," Annet answered. "Mother was
always singing it when she rocked Matthew Henry to sleep, and sometimes
we get her to sing as much as she can remember for a treat."

"But she can only remember five or six verses," said Linnet; "and her
voice is not beautiful like yours."

Annet and Matthew Henry protested. Their mother's was a beautiful
voice; one of the most beautiful in the world.

"But not beautiful like hers," Linnet persisted. "I mean that it's
quite different."

They admitted this--so much their loyalty allowed them. "And I like the
end of the song best," Linnet went on, "because it's cheerfuller. It
goes on 'At daybreak she dressed her....'"

But for a moment or two, though she felt the children's eyes fastened
on her expectantly, Vashti did not resume the song. Those same
expectant eyes were open windows through which she looked into the
past, as into a house tenanted by ghosts. Through Annet's, through
Linnet's, she saw familiarly, recognising the dim children that played
within and beyond the shadow of the blinds. But the child Matthew
Henry's frightened her. She and Ruth had lost a brother once. He had
died in infancy, a scrap of childhood, almost forgotten.... Yes,
Matthew Henry's eyes too had a playroom behind them; and there too a
shadowy child played at hide and seek.

Her voice shook a little as she picked up the old song--

    At daybreak she dressed her,
      Her wet hair she wound,
    When she saw a lithe shepherd,
      Stood under the mound.

    He stood among the wreckage
      With crook and with hound,
    Alone in the morning,
      That most did astound.

    "O tell to me, lithe shepherd,
      What king owns this ground?"
    "No king, ma'am, but Zenobia,
      A Queen of renown."

    "Lithe lad, she is shipwrecked;
      Myself saw her drown."
    "Then 'tis you are Queen of Saaron
      If you will step down.

    "I have sheep, goat, and cattle
      And a clear three pound,
    If you'll mate with me and settle
      In goods we will abound."

    "Well-a-way!" sighed Zenobia,
      "I have lost Carthage town,
    But I like this lithe shepherd
      So handsome and brown.

    "If I marry you," said Zenobia,
      "Farewell to renown!
    If I marry you," said Zenobia,
      "I mate with a clown.
    But I'll marry you for all that,
      With a down-derry-down!"

"And," said Linnet, as the song concluded, "they married and had twelve
children--six boys and six girls. Mother told me about it."

But Matthew Henry turned to the singer gravely. "Is it true?" he asked.
"And are you really Queen Zenobia?"

"Come and see," said Vashti, rising. "The sands are bare between us and
Brefar, and if Linnet is brave enough we will take a boat and she shall
be shown the cave where Jan's father caught the mermaid."

"But we must get back again," objected Annet.

"I will see that you get back again."

"The sands may not be safe."

"When you told us yourself that they were quite safe!" protested
Matthew Henry. "And you said you would lead us over and back without
any danger at all."

"The fact is," said Vashti, quietly, "Annet feels herself responsible
for you, and thinks that very likely I am a witch."

The child faced her bravely, biting her lip upon the inward struggle.

"You are not a witch," she said. "Your eyes are too good. And, besides,
there are people in Brefar who will take care of us if we miss our way
back."

Vashti smiled, and again half sadly, for out of her own past this child
confronted her. "That is brave, Annet; brave enough for the moment,
though by and by we shall have to be braver. See how the sands shine
below us! Shall we race for them and see who wins?"

She took Matthew Henry's small, unresisting hand, and the four pelted
down the slope. Something in Vashti's eyes--it could not have been in
the words of her last answer, for they were mysterious enough--had
apparently reassured Annet, who cast away care and called back in
triumph as she won the race down to the golden sands.

They were damp yet in patches, and these patches shone like metal
reflecting the greenish-blue spaces that showed between the clouds in
the heart of the gathering sunset. But along the fairway the sand lay
firm to the tread, yet soft to the look as a stretch of amber-coloured
velvet laid for their feet. Beyond rose Brefar, with its lower cliffs
in twilight, its rounded upper slopes one shining green. Vashti had
kilted her gown higher and helped the two girls to pin up their short
skirts. All had taken off their shoes and stockings, for here and there
a shallow channel must be waded.

They crossed without mishap, and, having shod themselves again, mounted
the turfy slope where the larks flew up from their hiding-places among
the stones. Vashti's talk was of the birds, for in all Brefar the spot
best worth visiting is Merriman's Head, where the birds congregate in
their thousands--cormorants, curlews, whimbrels, gulls and kittiwakes,
oyster-catchers, sandpipers--these all the year round--and in early
summer the razorbills and sea parrots. Zenobia, it appeared, knew not
only Merriman's Head, but every rock, down to the smallest and farthest
in the Off Islands, where these creatures nested. She spoke to them of
the island from which Annet took her name--a low-lying ridge to the
west of St. Gar some hab 'ich to water, prior to the forging press and
hold to see. But the strangest contrast with this humble Start provoked,
was a great, with carriages and wagons of all kinds travel overloaded
meadow area. They were with his wife and Liebchen, children and relatives
at the same time, indented as if the inner contradiction of their current
condition rather wanted to show off. Since I am here a few hours
outdoors on post horses had to wait, could I have another remark make.
I sat before the window of the Post House, unfern from the spot where
the box stood in the incision, the unstamped letters to throw cares. A
similar Zudrang hab 'I've never seen hundreds of them were lowered
into the crevice.

The boundless ambition, how to deal with body, soul and spirit in
his homeland through the gap of the dam re-perforated einzuströmen
desire, was not vigorous and intrusive vorzubilden. Before boredom and
lust, secrets to develop or suppliers, dacht 'ich mir what quantity
of this letter probably would like to be included? Since thinks'
for a lover I can feel the passion and pain, the agony of separation
in such a privation strongly expressed, a friend of a friend in the
extreme hardship required a lot of money, out of women with children,
and service notes, to fund their money on a few pieces together was
ardent supporters of the prince who, hoping the best to each other
pleasure and courage zusprachen others who have the misfortune in
the distance senses and learn about the impending loss of their
goods jammervoll complained - and I think unskillfully advised not
to have.

About clarified many of the Post Master to me, which to my impatience
after horses to appease me deliberately sought to entertain. He showed
me several letters with stamps from distant areas, which are now
the most advanced and advancing after mistaken should. France was in
all its borders surrounded with such wretches, of Antwerp, to Nice, while
the French were equally armies to defend and ready to failure.

He said some concern; it seemed the state of things at least very doubtful.
Since I was not as angry as others who hineinstürmten to France,
he gave me blad for a Republican, and showed more confidence and
he had me in mind the inconveniences which Prussia of the weather
and road via Koblenz and Trier suffered, and made a dreadful
description, as I camp in the area of Longwy would find, of all he
was well informed and seemed not averse, and teach others.

Finally he looked at me attentively, as the Prussians during the invasion
quiet villages looted and innocent that it is now done by troops or
by servants and pack stragglers; sham's had punished, but the people
inside against upset. Because I had because of that General of the Thirty
Years War invade, what, when the hostile behavior of his troops in the
country höchlich friends complained, the reply was: "I can not in
my army transport bag," but even I could say that our backs are
not very was secured. Longwy, whose conquest of me already underway
was triumphantly proclaimed, I was on my way right at some distance
and came 27 th August afternoon against the camp of Praucourt.

Covering an area beaten, it was to see, but there anzulangen not
without difficulty. A moist, ground was troubled horses and carriages
hindrance, it also fell on that one yet neither guards nor anyone
antraf items, depending on the passports and asked where we are
opposed to some inquiry would be able to.

We drove through a desert tent, because everything had verkrochen
to terrible weather before the meager protection to be found. Only with
great difficulty, we explored some of the area where we ducal
Weimarische regiment could find, finally reached the place and saw
familiar faces of fellow sufferers were even friendly.

Kämmerier Wagner and his black poodle were the first to welcome both
recognized a much-year life companion, who once again a worrying time
with durchkämpfen should. At the same time I learned an unpleasant
incident: Prince of the horse body, the Amaranth was yesterday after a
hideous scream niedergestürzt and remained dead. Now I had from
the situation of the camp still maintaining a lot worse and hear,
as the Post Master I predicted.

You think that's on one level at the foot of a gently rising hill,
on which an ancient ditch water drawn from fields and meadows should
hold, but this was as fast as possible all container debris, all
Abwürflinge: the deduction faltered, massive downpours breached the
dam at night and led the odious mischief under the tents.

As promised, what meat to viscera, bones and otherwise set aside, over
the already wet and frightened into dormitories. I should be the
same if a few are admitted, but before I pulled myself through the
day with friends and family to reside in and night the big sleeper
of peace to maintain the convenience of earlier times since I already
knew.

Strangely, however, it had to find out how he, although only about
thirty steps away from the tents, but still so inaccessible that
I had to enter the evening and morning to carry out.

On 28 August. To me this strange met my birth celebration. We put on a
horse and rode into the conquered fortress, probably built and fortified
town is situated on a hill. My intention was, large woolen blankets
to buy, and we soon had us in a store, where we are mother and
daughters were pretty and graceful.

We haggles not paid much and were so good and, when Germans are without
Tournüre possible. The fate of the house during the bombing were most
wonderful. Several shells fell in a row in the family room, they
fled, the mother pulled the child from the cradle and fled, and
the moment was still just a grenade through the cushions, where
the boy had lain.

Luckily, none of the shells cracked, they had broken the furniture, on
Getäfel gesengt, and so everything was passed without any further
damage in the shop was not a ball has come.

The fact that the patriotism of those of Lognwy not too strong to be
liked, you could see it that the citizenship of the commander was very
soon forced the fort to surrender, but we had scarcely a step from the
shop done when the internal dissension of the citizens that we showed
enough.

Royal minded, and be our friends, the fast handover causes sadness
that we in this product vault accidentally came and the worst of all
Jacobins, who with his whole family does not fit, so much good
money to solve.

Equally, we are warned against a splendide inn, and as a concern than
if the dishes daselbst not quite dare to want to be at the same time
you hinted at a less than reliable, because where we are also
friendly and reasonably entertained saw. Now we sat old war and
comrades garrison confidential and happy again alongside and against
each other, there were the officers of the regiment, united with
the Duke farm, home and office comrades, we are amused by the
Nächstvergangenen how much it moves and the beginning of maize in
Aschersleben been, when the regiments are ready to keep marching
order given to the Duke of Brunswick, and several high daselbst
people visit, where the Marquis of Bouillé than a major surgery and
in the intervening force strangers to mention not forgotten.

As soon as the innkeeper of horch this name came to the ears, he
eagerly inquired whether the men we know?

Most were allowed to affirm it, but he showed much respect and great
hope for the participation of this worthy, active man, was so it
would seem as if we are from that moment on would be better served.

As we all gathered here with us Leib and soul of a Prince-known families,
the government for several years so great advantages and is now
also in the military, of which he was devoted to youth, which he
pursued for some time, should prove, as promised to his welfare and
his family in accordance with good German way initiated and drunk,
but especially at the Prince Bernhard's well-being, where shortly
before Ausmarsch Obrist Wachtmeister of Weyrach, as a Member of the
Regiment, had stood godfather.

Now everyone knew from the march itself did much to talk about how the
resin Leaving the left to pass to Northeim Goslar Göttingen come by,
since you have heard of excellent and poor neighborhoods,
bäurisch-unfriendly, grumpy-formed, hypochondriac-compliant hosts
from nunneries and some diversion of the road and weather. Then
it was on the eastern edge of West falling Koblenz pulled her up,
had some pretty woman to do so by strange priests, unexpectedly
met friends, broken wheels, overturned cars variegated report. From
Koblenz from one respondent over mountainous areas, roads and
many arduous deficiency and then moved after the last little distracted,
getting closer to reality, after the invasion of France in the
terrible weather was as highly disruptive and described as a worthy
prelude to the state that we, after the stock returns, could foresee.
However, in such a society is encouraged on the other, and I am
particularly reassured at the sight of delicious woolen blankets,
which had Reitknecht aufgebunden. In the camp, I found the evening in
the big tent is the best society, she was still there together, because
you do not could put the foot out, everything was full of good
courage, and confidence. The rapid completion of Longwy confirmed the
emigrated, will be everywhere with open arms up, and it seemed to the
great projects of revolutionary France, through the manifestos
of the Duke of Brunswick issued, were, without exception, when Prussia,
Austria and emigrated . Of course you could just tell truly known, it
was noted that a people, to the extent polluted, not even parties to
split, but inwardly shattered in louder details separately,
the high sense of unity noble allies could not resist . Also had
heard of war deeds to tell. Immediately after the entry into France
were at Rekognozieren five Eskadron Hussars Wolfrat at thousands of
Chasseurs, of Sedan which our advance should observe. The Ours,
well led, accessible, and because the mutual security fought
bravely, even Pardonannehmen not wanted, there was a greyish carnage,
which we won, made prisoners, horses, rifle and saber captured through
which prelude the warlike spirit increases Hope and confidence were
established solid. On 29 August was the departure from these halberstarrten
earth and water waves, slow and not without complaint: because,
as you should tents and baggage, and other gear only somewhat clean,
because there was no place where you can get anything, and can
spread!

Attention However, the highest military leader turned this departure,
gave us fresh confidence. In the strictest wagon was all without exception
beordert behind the column, only one regiment chief authorized a Chaise
reciprocating before his train to leave, because I had the good
fortune because, in the light, open the cart main army should be mentioned
for now. Both chiefs and the king as the Duke of Brunswick, with her
entourage had since posted, where everything had gone up to them.

I saw it wide, and as we drew, rode Ihro majesty to my Wäglein approached
and asked Ihro in laconic style, to whom belong the wagon? I replied
loud: "Duke of Weimar!" and we moved forward. Not easy being somebody
from a predominantly visitator stopped. In addition, however,
we found the way here and a little better. In a quaint area where hills
and valleys alternated with each other, there were specially designed
for horses to be dry enough space to comfortably be able to move forward.
I threw myself on my own, and so it was free and fun continued, the
regiment had the priority in the Army, we were always ahead and the whole
movement of the tiresome completely miss. The march left the main
road, we came Arrancy what we as Chatillon l'Abbaye, the first indicator
of the Revolution, a Kirchengut sold in half-demolished and destroyed
to the side walls remained. But now we saw over hills and valleys of the
king's majesty is moving hastily to horse, as the core a comet of a
long, tail-like wake support.

Few, however, was this phenomenon with lightning quick passes before us
has been eroded as a second from the other side of a hill crowned or
filled the valley. It was the Duke of Brunswick, the same kind of
elements to be moved and after. We now, although more for watching than
tilted to assess, but could not avoid considering which of two powers
is actually the top is? What is dubious in the case to decide? Unanswered
questions that can only lead and serious doubts behind. What is now but
still serious food for thought there, was that both captain quite frank
and free in a land dispute looked into it, where not unlikely in
the bushes a deadly enemy lurking was excited . But we had to admit
that just the bold personal oneself has always won the victory and
claimed the rule.

For cloudy sky the sun shone very hot, and the wagon in groundless ground
was a serious advancement. Broken wheels of cars and guns even made
some stay, here and there tired Füseliere who no longer could
continue dragging.

We heard the cannonade at Thionville and wished good side of that
success.

In the evening we refreshed ourselves in the camp at Pillon. A lovely
Waldwiesenahm us, the shadows refreshed already to scrub Küchfeuer was
enough, just a creek flowed over and formed two clear pools, both
at once by humans and animals should be tarnished.

The one I gave freely, defended the other with ferocity and had it
immediately with stakes and cords to move. Without noise against the
intrusiveness was not distracting. As asked one of our riders,
the others who just left entirely to their stuff dressed: "Who is he
who makes mausig so?" - "I do not know," exclaimed the other, "but he
was right." So now were Prussia and Austria and a part of France, on
French soil their war to drive the craft. In whose power and authority
did they do that?

They could name it suitable to do the war, they were a part of the
explanation, it was no secret covenant, but now was an excuse
invented yet.

They appeared on behalf of Louis XVI. They requisitioned, but they
borrowed violently. They had bills printed, signed by the commander,
but one which they had in their hands, after finding arbitrarily
filled: Louis XVI. should pay. Maybe after the manifest has not so much
the people against the monarchy aufgehetzt than this treatment. I
was even at such a scene at present, which I remember as a very
tragic. Several liked shepherd their flocks have united to them in
forests or other remote locations securely to hide, but by active
patrolling up and led the army, they saw first, and probably well
received. You asked about the different owners, it secretes, and
counted the individual herds. Concern and fruit, but with some
hope, floated on the faces of the brave men. When this procedure
but then dissolved, that the herds under regiments and companies
distributed to the owners, however, very politely to Louis XVI. Asked
about submitted papers, however, their woolly pupils from the
impatient, funny flesh soldiers off their feet were murdered,
then confess' I feel it is not easy to me a cruel scene, and a deep male
pain in all its gradations ever before the eyes and soul to come
. The Greek tragedies just as easily have deeply moving. 30 August.
From this day, we should bring against Verdun, we promised adventure,
and they were not enough.

The up and down walking path was already better dried, the wagon
moved so freely, the riders moved easier and enjoyable.

It had a lively company found that, well Mounted, was experiencing
so much until they could train Hussars antraf, the actual Vortrab the
main army made. The captain, a composite man, already on the middle
years of our arrival seemed to not like to see. The strictest attention,
he recommended: everything should be done with caution, any unpleasant
accident klüglich eliminated. He had his people kunstmäßig distributed
separately before they moved in certain distances, and everything
went in the greatest order and silence.

The area was deserted, the extreme solitude ahnungsvoll. So we
were, from hill to hill, about Mangiennes, Damvillers, Wawrille
and Ormonts come when, at a height, which provided a nice view,
right in the vineyards was a shot, as the hussars immediate infusion,
the next neighborhood to investigate.

They also brought a real black, bearded man came, who looked pretty
wild and in which a bad Terzerol had. He said defiantly that he had
the birds away from their own vineyards and nobody doing anything. The
captain seemed in silent reflection, this case with its measured
orders together and released the prisoners threatened with a few
blows to the guy so hurry along the way was that to him his hat
with great pleasure nachwarf yelling, but he does not record
Occupation felt.

The train went on, we'll entertain us on the occurrence and on some
things to expect his wishes.

Now it should be noted that our small company, as the hussars aufgedrungen
had accidentally come together from various elements, there were
mostly grad witty, each after its way to the moment of dedicated
people.

However, I have a special award, a serious, very honorable man in
the way they at that time among the people Prussian War occurred
more frequently, more aesthetic than philosophical formed, with
some serious hypochondriac train, still in inward and Wohltun with
open tender passion.

As we go ahead hinrückten, we met a so strange as a pleasant
appearance, which caused a general participation.

Two Hussars were making a single two-cart up the hill, and when we
inquired what the übergespannten canvas probably want to be located,
it was a boy of about twelve years, the horse turned, and a beautiful
girl or female, which derives from the corner hervorbeugte to view
the many riders who have their two-screen surrounded.

Nobody remained without participation, but actually acting on behalf
of the beauty we had our friend about sentient, which is of the moment
when he was in need of the cart closer to rescue hingedrängt felt
unstoppable. We were in the background, but he asked according to all
circumstances, and it was found that the young person in Samogneux
resident, the impending distress sideways to avoid distant friends
willing to be just the threat in the throat had fled, how timid in
such cases the man mentioned that it was anywhere better than where
he is.

Unanimously it was now on the friendliest to understand that they must
return. Even our leader, the captain, the first scent Spionerei
wanted here, finally settled by the warm rhetoric of the moral man
talk because they also, two of hussars the page to their residence
brought back somewhat comforted, woselbst us that we in good order
and cultured man running through soon afterwards, on a Mäuerchen
among yours standing, friendly and, because the first adventure was
so well done, hopefully welcomed.

It are similar breaks in the middle of the war trains where obtained by
current husband farmed credit and seeks to provide a kind of legal
peace in the midst of the confusion beordert.

These are delicious moments for the citizens and farmers and for all,
the permanent war mischief yet all faith in humanity has robbed. Verdun
within a warehouse is being turned, and it counts on a few days rest.
31 morning I was sleeping in, certainly the driest, warmest and
most encouraging deposit, half-awake when I have something on the
leather and curtains ruaschen heard at the opening of the Duke of
Weimar saw that I presented an unexpected stranger.

I recognized immediately the adventurous Grothaus, who, his party-goers
role to play here also not averse, had arrived to the concern
for the invitation to take over Verdun.

In its wake, he came to our leaders to royal trumpeters staff to
ask what such a special award is gladdening, alsobald the business
was beordert.

                    We welcomed our old oddness bearing on the heiterste, Grothaus, and
hurried on his business, because what, when it was finished, even
some jokes were made.

It was said, as he provided the trumpeters, the hussars hinterdrein,
ridden down the road, but when the Verdun Sansculotten, not knowing
the law or contempt for him kanoniert; as a white handkerchief attached
to the trumpet and always violent to blasen ordered, as he sought from
a command and blindfolded into the fort alone resulted alldort nice
speeches, but does nothing - and what was more like, making it possible
to Weltart after the service and to reduce the company honor to
wither knew. When the fortress, as of course, to the first
requirement is to show off, you had to institutions with vorschreiten
bombardment. The day went out, however, worried I have a small business,
its good results to me to this day cover. In Mainz had me by Mr. Stein
with the Atlas Jägerischen supplies, which the current, hopefully
the nächstkünftigen in several battleground leaves represented.

I took one out, the forty-eighth, in whose district, I look at Longwy
was taken, and since under the duke's people is just a Boßler
found, so it was cut and raised and still serves me for the recovery
of those memories for the world and me so important day. Following such
preparation for future usefulness and convenience of instantaneous I
saw around me in the meadow where we camped and from where the
tents up on the hill.

On the large, green, outspread carpet pulled an amazing spectacle to
my attention that a number of soldiers had set in a circle and handled
within the same bit. On closer examination I found it a funnel Erdfall
stored, which, from the purest spring water filled up about thirty
feet in diameter could have had. Now there were countless small fish,
which after the war people fishing, including the device beside their
other luggage had brought. The water was the clearest of the world, and
funny enough to hunt.

I had not long zugeschaut this game when I noticed that the fish,
they are moving, different colors played.
"It was the closest miss that they did not. When they hove in sight I
was actually standing in front of our masterpiece, with my back to the
road; calling orders to Archelaus and Treacher, who were at work
stuffing _them_ (so to speak) with straw. I fancy they have forgotten,
on Garrison Hill, to guard against surprises. At any rate, we should
have been taken in a highly unsoldier-like fashion if Mrs. Treacher
hadn't kept her eye lifting. She gave the alarm, and we scuttled into
the bushes like rabbits, and watched while she held the gate. What is
more, I believe she would have fended off the danger if Sergeant
Archelaus hadn't sneezed; and then--oh, then!--" Vashti paused, her
eyes brimful of laughter.

"He broke cover?"

"I snatched at the tail of his tunic--hastily, I will admit--but until
he had stepped past me I had no idea he meant to be so foolish. It came
away in my hand. They heard the noise it made in ripping."

"But they did not see you?"

"No; for seeing that the mischief was done Sergeant Treacher stepped
out too. You should have heard them explaining to Miss Gabriel! But
they were quite brave and determined. They told me afterwards that
rather than allow one of the visitors to enter and catch sight of me
they would have picked up all three and carried them outside the
garrison gate."

"The Lord Proprietor will certainly hear of this," said the Commandant,
musing.

Vashti, who had bent to pin the sheet closer, lifted her head and
regarded him with a puzzled frown; then, averting her eyes, let them
travel under the foot of the sail towards the sunset.

"Decidedly the Lord Proprietor will hear of it," she said, after an
interval during which he almost forgot that he had spoken. "Indeed, if
it will help to get you, or Archelaus, or anyone out of a scrape, I
propose to call on him to-morrow and confess all. Do you think he will
be lenient?"

There was a shade of contempt in the question, and it called a flush to
the Commandant's cheek. He was about to answer, but checked himself and
sat silent, looking down at the foam that ran by the boat's gunwale.

"He must be worth visiting, too; that is, if one may reconstruct him
from--from them."

The Commandant smiled. "My dear lady, you have already made one attempt
to reconstruct him from them."

Vashti pondered awhile, her chin resting on her hand and her eyes yet
fixed upon the sunset.

"I give you fair warning that I am here on a holiday," she murmured.

"I don't know what you consider a fair warning; but I had guessed so
much."

"The first for fifteen years," she pursued; "and I won't promise that I
shall not behave worse--considerably worse. Are you very angry with
me?"

"My dear," answered the Commandant ("My dear," it should be explained,
is the commonest form of address in the Islands, and one that even a
prisoner will use to the magistrate trying him), "if you really wish to
know, I am enjoying myself recklessly; and it would be idle to call my
garrison to put you under restraint, since you have already suborned
them. I started, you see, with the imprudence of showing you my
defences, and now you have us all at your mercy."

"You have been more than good to me," said Vashti, after a pause; "but
the fortress is already vacated." She nodded towards a valise which
rested under the thwart by the foot of the mast. "Mrs. Treacher packed
it for me," she explained, "and her husband carried it down to the
boat. If Ruth needs me--as she almost certainly does--and if her
husband will tolerate me, I shall sleep on Saaron to-night."

"But you will come back?" he asked, dismayed.

"Certainly not, unless the Lord Proprietor drives me to seek refuge."

The Commandant did not answer. He had known that this happy time must
be short; he had known it from the first, and that the end would come
unexpectedly.

The wind had fallen slightly, and the boat crept up to the entrance of
Cromwell's Sound with sail that alternately tautened its sheet and let
it fall slack. The single bell of Brefar Church yet rung to service;
but the sun had sunk beneath the horizon, and the sea-lights were
flashing around the horizon before Saaron loomed close on the port
hand; and as they crept towards the East Porth under the loom of the
Island, a row-boat shot out from the beach there, and headed up the
Sound towards Brefar.

"Hush!" commanded Vashti, and peered forward.

But a boat putting out from Saaron at this hour could only belong to
Saaron's only inhabitants, and could be bound but on one errand. And
Ruth was in her, for, presently, as the children's voices travelled
back across the still water, Vashti heard Matthew Henry's pitched to a
shrill interrogative and calling his mother by name.

"They are rowing to church, the whole family," said Vashti. "We can
follow as slowly as we choose."

She listened a moment, but the oars in the boat ahead continued their
regular plash. It may be that Tregarthen had failed to discern the
small sail astern of him in the gloom of the land. She lowered it
quietly, stowed it, found and inserted the thole-pins, and shipped the
paddles. Yet it seemed that she was in no hurry to row. She but dipped
a blade twice to check the boat from swinging broadside-on to the tide,
and so rested silent for minute after minute, gazing through the gloom
towards the bright sea-lights.

And it seemed to the Commandant, seated and watching her, that he could
read some of the thoughts behind her gaze. His own went back again to
the night of his first coming to the Islands, when, as at sunset he
supposed himself to have discovered them, all of a sudden they
discovered him--reef after reef opening a great shining eye upon him;
and some of the eyes were steady, but most of them intermittent, and
all sent long gleaming rays along the floor of the sea; a dozen
sea-lights and eleven of them yellow, but the twelfth (that upon North
Island) a deep glowing crimson. Since then and for fifteen years they
had been his friends. Nightly he watched them for minutes from his
window before undressing for bed; and in fanciful moments they seemed
to draw a circle of witchcraft around the Islands.

If they meant so much to him what must they mean to her who had left
home, dear ones, and all memories of youth?--and who, returned from
exile, stood with her hand upon the latch of the old cupboard!

"Ruth will have changed," said Vashti, speaking aloud, but to herself.
"It is impossible that she has not changed."

She dipped her paddles and began to pull, gently at first and almost
languidly; but by and by strength came into her arms and the boat began
to move at a pace that astonished the Commandant.

                    *      *      *      *      *

Brefar Church stands on a green knoll close by the water's edge and
only a few yards above a shingly beach where the Islanders bring their
boats to shore. Its bell had ceased ringing long before its windows
came into view with the warm lamp light shining within; and the beach
lay dark under the shadow of the tamarisks topping the graveyard wall.
Vashti, not in the least distressed by her exertions, sprang ashore and
sought about for a good mooring-stone. She had found one almost before
the Commandant, following, could offer to help her in her search.
Together they hauled the boat a few yards up from the water.

"Are we to go inside?" the Commandant asked, looking up at the lighted
building.

Before Vashti could answer a reedy harmonium sounded within and the
congregation broke into the "Old Hundredth" hymn--

    "All people that on earth do dwell,
    Sing to the Lord with cheerful voice----"

The incongruity of it, sung by a handful of fisherfolk here on an islet
of the Atlantic--the real congruity (if indeed the Church be, as the
Bidding Prayer defines it, "the whole body of Christian people
dispersed throughout the world")--was probably less perceptible to the
Commandant after fifteen years' sojourn on the Islands than to Vashti,
newly returned from great continents and crowded cities. But if she
smiled the darkness did not betray her. The Commandant saw her lift a
hand beckoning him to follow, and followed her up the knoll to a
whitewashed gate glimmering between the dark masses of the tamarisks.

She opened it and disappeared into the churchyard. He followed,
stumbling along the narrow path, and overtook her at the angle of the
south porch. She was in the act of mounting upon a flat tombstone which
lay close in the wall's shadow. A panel of light streamed from the
window directly above, and fell on Vashti's face as she drew herself
erect upon the slab and leaned forward, her fingers resting on the
granite mullions; but a light not derived from this shone in her eyes a
moment later. With a little sob of joy she pressed her forehead close
against the leaded panes.

The Commandant heard the sound, and guessed the cause of it. The light
in her eyes he could not see. He stood among the dark nettles, looking
up at her, waiting for the hymn to conclude.

The "Amen" came at last. He heard the shuffling of feet as the
congregation knelt to pray ... and, with that, Vashti turned and bent
to whisper to him.

"She is there--almost abreast of us, standing by the pillar. She is
kneeling now--my own Ruth--and her face is hidden."

He supposed that she bent to step down from the slab, and he put up a
hand to help her. A tear fell on the back of his fingers, as it were a
single raindrop out of the night.... But she turned impulsively, and
pressed her face again to the glass.

"She is praying. She will not look up again.... She would not turn her
eyes just now, though her own sister stood so close! They were lifted
to the lights in the chancel and to the dark window." Then, as it
seemed, with sudden inconsequence, she added: "Forgive me, sir! You
have been kind to me, and it is so many years--so many years----"

"My dear," said the Commandant, gravely, as he handed her down, "you
honour me more than I can tell. All my life I shall remember that you
have so honoured me."

But it did not appear that she heard him. Letting go his hand, she
seated herself on the edge of the tombstone, and looked up at him with
eyes that, barely touched by the light from the window, seemed to him
strangely, almost pitifully childish--eyes of a child that had lost its
mother young.

"Her face was not changed, or a very little; far less than I feared.
She is beautiful, my own Ruth--beautiful as she is good."

"And happy?" he found himself asking.

"Happy and unhappy. Happy in her good man, in her children?--oh, yes.
But unhappy, just now, because they are unhappy and in trouble. There
was a gloom upon Eli Tregarthen's face, a look of pain----"

"Of anger, too, and of wonder mixed with it, I daresay. He has been hit
by a blow he does not understand."

"But we will help them."

The Commandant stared into the darkness. There was gloom, too, on his
face, had there been light enough to reveal it.

"The Lord Proprietor is a very obstinate man."

"Yes, yes; but I mean that we will help them to-night. I cannot bear to
think of Ruth carrying her trouble home and lying awake with it."

"Perhaps she will not." The Commandant remembered how he himself had
carried a burden to church that morning and left it there.

"Ah!" exclaimed Vashti, swiftly, guessing his thought, though not the
occasion of it. "That may do for you and me. For my part, I am not a
religious woman--I mean, not religious as I ought to be. Yet I
understand. Often and often when worried or out of temper I go to
church and sit there alone until peace of mind comes back to me. But I
have no husband, and you no wife; whereas with Ruth all her soul's
comfort is bound up in those she loves. While Eli Tregarthen wears that
look on his face, she can never go home happy."

"But have we power to lift it?"

"We will try, and to-night."

She stood up, cast one look behind her at the lighted window, and led
the way back along the path, through the gate, and down the knoll to
the beach. While she cast off the rope from its mooring-stone he eased
the boat off and launched her.

"Shall I take the paddles?" he asked.

No; Vashti would pull back as she had come; and as she pulled she
talked of Ruth, out of her full heart. He listened, between joy and
pain--joy to be sitting here, honoured with her confidences, though he
had none but a listener's share in them--here, in the still, scented
evening, caressed by her marvellous voice; and pain, not because her
talk charged life full of new meanings, every one of which he felt to
be vitally true and as certainly missed by his own starved experience,
but because it took him for granted as a kindly stranger, an outsider
admitted to these mysteries, and warned him that his time on this holy
ground was short; nay, that it was drawing swiftly to a close. And how
could he go back to the old monotony, the old routine?

He remembered that, to whatever he went back, it would not be to
these--at any rate, not for long. The future might hold degradation,
poverty of the sharpest, hard work for a pittance of daily bread; but
at least his dismissal would send him back to a life in which lay
somewhere these meanings that trembled like visions of light in the
heart of Vashti's talk. They gave him glimpses of the heaven which, by
their remembered rays, he must seek for himself. How many years had he
wasted--how many years!

They moored the boat close under the cliff's shadow, and, climbing the
rocks, between the cove and the East Porth, sat down to wait. Vashti
sat in reverie, plucking and smelling at small tufts of the thyme;
then, rousing herself with a happy laugh, she challenged the Commandant
to name her all the islets, rock by rock, lying out yonder in the
darkness. He tried, and she corrected omission after omission, mocking
him. What did he care? It was enough to be seated here, close with her
in the starry, odorous night.

Presently she tired of the contest, and clasping her knees began,
without warning given, to croon a little song--

    "Over the rim of the moor,
      And under a starry sky,
    Two men came to my door
      And rested them wearily.

    Beneath the bough and the star
      In a whispering foreign tongue,
    They talked of a land afar,
      And the merry days so young."

She sang it as though to herself, or as though answering the murmur of
the tide on the rocks at their feet; but at the third verse her voice
lifted:

    "Beneath the dawn and the bough
      I heard them arise and go--
    But my heart, it is aching--aching now,
      For the more it will never know."

The song died away in a low wistful minor, as though it breathed its
last upon a question. "The merry days--the merry days, so young," she
echoed, after a pause, and lifted her head suddenly.

"Hark!"

The sound--it was the plash of oar--grew upon the darkness. A light
shot out beyond the last point of Brefar, and its ray fell waving on
the black water. It came from a lantern in the bows of the Tregarthen's
boat, and as it drew nearer the two listeners could distinguish the
children's voices.

They shrank back there in the shadow above the ledge, as the boat took
ground and Eli Tregarthen, stepping ashore in his sea-boots, set the
lantern on the stones of the beach, lifted out the children, and lent a
hand to Ruth. The little ones scampered up the path; but Ruth waited by
her husband while he heaved the boat high and dry with his easy,
careless strength, and saw to her moorings. When all was done, and as
he stooped to pick up the lantern, she came to him, and put a hand on
his arm. So, and without speech, they went up the path together.

The rays of the lantern danced on the furze-bushes to right and left of
the path.... Vashti leapt to her feet; her hands went up to her lips
and hollowed themselves to a low call.

"Lul--lul--loo--ee!"

From the brake above came a little cry, a little gasping cry; and
gruffly upon it Eli Tregarthen's voice challenged--

"Who goes there?"

"Caa-ra! caa-ra!... Oh, Ruth--my sister!"

The Commandant saw Tregarthen's lantern lifted above the gorse, and by
the light of it Ruth came down to the narrow pathway--came with the
face of a ghost, as Vashti sprang up the slope towards her.

"Vassy! Not Vassy!-----"

But Vashti's arms were about her for proof. The Commandant, standing
below in the shadow of the brake, heard the younger sister's sobs.

"Vassy! And to-night!"

"To-night, and for many nights-----"

"Thank God! Thank God!"

The Commandant, by the light of the lantern which Eli Tregarthen held
stupidly, saw them go up the path, their arms holding each other's
waist. They disappeared, but their questions and eager, broken answers,
as they climbed towards Saaron, came down to him where he stood alone,
forgotten.

He stood there for half an hour almost. Then, as he felt the chill of
the night he recalled himself to action with a shiver, and shouldered
Vashti's valise. Slowly he climbed the hill with it, to Saaron Farm,
and rapped on the door.

Tregarthen opened to him, staring.

"I have brought your sister-in-law's luggage."

"Is it the Governor?... But won't you step inside, sir?"

"I thank you; no. It is late," answered the Commandant, curtly, and
turned on his heel.

As he went by the window he saw--he could not help seeing--Ruth in her
chair, with Vashti on the hearth beside her, clasping her knees. The
children looked on in a wondering semi-circle.

He stumbled down the hill, and as he went he heard the door softly
close behind him.


CHAPTER XVI

THE LORD PROPRIETOR'S AUDIENCE


Sir Cæsar Hutchins, Lord Proprietor, paced the terrace of his great
house at Inniscaw, and paused ever and anon to survey the prospect with
a lordly proprietary eye. He had breakfasted, and at breakfast (to use
his own words) he always did himself justice. Indeed, throughout a
strenuous business career he had never failed to take very good care of
himself, and was now able to enjoy a clear conscience with an easy
digestion.

The reader may ask with some surprise how such a man, accustomed all
his life to the bustle and traffic of Finsbury Pavement, E. C., could
choose, in his middle age, to turn his back on these and purchase an
exile out in the Atlantic, where no one bought or sold shares, and
where only Mr. Fossell, perhaps--and he from a week-old
newspaper--caught an echo of the world's markets, whether they rose or
fell. But, in truth, Sir Cæsar had chosen carefully, deliberately. He
had always intended to enjoy in later life the wealth for which he had
worked hard in his prime; and as soon as his fortune was assured, he
had made several cautious but determined experiments to discover where
enjoyment might abide. He had, for instance, rented a grouse-moor, and
invited a large company to help him, by shooting the birds, to feel
that he was getting a return for his money. But somehow his guests,
though very good fellows in London, did not harmonize (to his mind)
with the highland wastes. He was glad when they departed; the scenery
improved at once--at any rate, he took more pleasure in it. He tried a
deer forest and found this tolerable, but he soon made the further
discovery that shooting bored him, that is to say, all shooting of
higher rank that the potting of rabbits. He was one of those enviable
persons who "know what they like." If he made trial of these expensive
recreations, it was simply because he saw men ambitious for them, and
supposed they would certainly yield some gratification to explain it;
but, having made trial for himself and missed the gratification, he
abandoned them without a sigh. Hence his wardrobe had come to include a
pair of deer-stalking breeches, very little the worse for wear. (He had
never anticipated any satisfaction in wearing a kilt).

At another time he had owned a steam yacht; and this had taught him
that he liked the sea and suffered no inconvenience from its motion.
But from the yacht itself he derived small satisfaction after he had
shown it to his friends, and been envied by poorer men for possessing
such a toy. It might have been amusing to carry these admirers about
with him in extended cruises; but they, being poor, were busy and could
not afford the time, while his rich acquaintances owned steam yachts of
their own. Moreover, though unaccustomed to sport, he had always taken
a fair amount of exercise; his liver required it; and at yachting--that
is to say, sitting on deck in a comfortable chair--he put on flesh at
an alarming rate. Therefore, from this pastime also he retired.

Though these experiments were in themselves uniformly unsuccessful, he
had not made them in vain; but, keeping his wits about him, had arrived
by a process of exhaustion at some of the essentials of pleasure; and
this, after all, was not so bad for a man who had started with no
knowledge concerning it and with a deal of false information. He knew
now that he required exercise, that he could be happy in solitude, and
that his landscape would be all the better if it neighboured on the
sea. (Of his immunity from sea-sickness he was honestly prouder than of
anything his money had been able, as yet, to purchase.) He had scarcely
made these discoveries when the lease of the Islands came into the
market.

Then, as he read the advertisement in the _Times_ newspaper, in a flash
he had divined his opportunity, had seen a happy future unrolled before
him. His error hitherto had lain, not in exchanging Finsbury Pavement
for scenes where the free elements had play, but in seeking to change
himself and do violence to his own habits of mind and body. In the
Islands he could practice, as a benevolent despot, that mastery of men
which had given him power in the city; he could devote uncontradicted
to the cause of philanthropy--or with only so much contradiction as
lent a spice to triumph--those faculties which he had been sharpening
all his life in quest of money. They remained sharp as ever, though the
old appetite had been dulled.

He was a widower. He had no ambition but his own to consult; he alone
would suffer if he made a mistake--and he felt sure he was not making a
mistake. Though not given to day-dreams (Finsbury Pavement discouraged
him), he had an ounce of imagination distributed about his brain (few,
even among money-making men, succeed with less), and it had once or
twice occurred to him that a king's must be, in spite of drawbacks, a
highly enviable lot--at any rate in countries west of Russia. Well,
here was his chance.

He took it boldly; and to-day, had you asked him, he would have
acknowledged with a smile that he did not repent. All kings, to be
sure, have their worries. The army had not shown itself too well
affected towards the new reign. But when an army consists of three
soldiers....

The Lord Proprietor, gazing down from his terrace upon the twinkling
waters of the roadstead, caught sight of a row-boat coming across from
St. Lide's, and as it drew near, recognised its sole occupant for
Sergeant Archelaus.

He felt for his cigar case, chose and lit a cigar, and rested his
elbows on the balustrade of the terrace, watching, while the old man
brought his boat to the landing-quay, landed leisurely, and crossed the
meadow to the foot of the gardens, where, at the pace he was keeping,
one might allow him a couple of minutes at least before he re-emerged
into view at the foot of the steps leading up to the terrace. But, as
it happened, a bare fifty seconds elapsed before he came darting out of
the boscage and scrambled up the stairway in a sweating hurry, two
steps at a time.

"You shouldn't, Sergeant; you really shouldn't--at your time of life,"
expostulated the Lord Proprietor, kindly, withdrawing the cigar from
his mouth.

"Then you shouldn't keep ostriches," retorted Sergeant Archelaus, as he
gained the topmost step and, after a fearful glance behind him, sank
against a pilaster and mopped his brow.

"Take care of that urn!" cried the Lord Proprietor, in a warning voice.
"It contains a _Phormium tenax_ that I wouldn't lose on any account."

"A what?"

"A New Zealand Flax.... The ostriches chased you, did they?"

"They did--the pair of 'em. It goes against a man's stomach, too, being
chased by a bird."

"To me," said the Lord Proprietor, "it is gratifying evidence that they
are recovering their spirits, which were hipped after the long voyage
from Cape Town. But here, in the Gulf Stream, my theory is that we can
acclimatise almost anything, animal or vegetable. Already they begin to
feel its invigorating influence."

"Talking of vegetables, sir"--Archelaus shifted a canvas bag from his
shoulders to the ground and began to untie the string which bound its
neck.

"Pray take breath," suggested the Lord Proprietor. "At your age--and
with the little exercise you get on Garrison Hill----"

"We don't keep ostriches," said Archelaus, curtly. "But, talking of
vegetables, the Governor sends his compliments to you, sir, and begs
your acceptance of a few choice plants in return for the small clothes
you lent me."

"'Lent' you, Archelaus? 'Gave,' you mean."

"Oh, sir, but--excuse me--I couldn't--there was them ostriches to be
considered."

"It has occurred to me," went on the Lord Proprietor, who was in the
best of moods this morning, "that those--er--breeches might be a trifle
conspicuous--a shade too highly pronounced in pattern--to be worn with
uniform."

"As for that, sir," answered Archelaus, tactfully, "life on the Islands
isn't like active service, where a man has to be careful about exposing
himself to marksmanship."

"In Inverness a pattern like that would excite no comment."

"I've never been there," said Archelaus.

"It--er--harmonises, as it were, with the natural surroundings: with
the loch, the glen, the strath. So with those curious tartans to which
the Scottish highlanders are--er--addicted. Seen by themselves, and to
a sensitive, artistic eye, they appear crude and almost violent in
their contrast of colours; but seen in conjunction with the expanse of
native moorland, the undulating stretches of the heather----"

"'Tis but niggling scenery we have in these parts, to be sure," agreed
Archelaus.

"I have sometimes thought that _mutatis mutandis_ the same may be true
of the bagpipes, the strains of which--'skirl,' I believe, is the
proper expression--are not altogether discordant with the moaning of
the wind over those desolate moors or the cries uttered by their wilder
denizens; though, speaking personally, I never could endure the
instrument."

"Me either," agreed Archelaus again, shuffling a little on his feet, as
the dreadful truth began to dawn on him, that the Lord Proprietor meant
to present him with yet another pair of trousers.

Sir Cæsar, however, chose to play for a minute with his benevolent
design.

"There is no more delicate study," he went on, "than that of
acclimatisation. None which requires a nicer union of artistic daring
with artistic judgment, patience, with decision.... I propose to go in
for it pretty extensively on Inniscaw."

"Yes, sir?"

"The ostriches have been a great encouragement."

"I suppose, now, when you get accustomed to 'em----"

"Though I have yet to prove that they will breed here. Yet, why not?
The Gulf Stream, I am assured, has a stimulating influence upon all
forms of organic life, animal as well as vegetable. It may be compared
with that inward volcanic heat which, in and around the Bay of Naples,
clothes the shore with verdure, and is not without responsibility for
the passions of the inhabitants.... But, as I was saying, a man must
use judgment. A plant may thrive when transferred across a thousand
miles of ocean, may propagate itself even more freely than in its
native habitat, and yet, to the artistic eye, be never truly at home.
Its colour, of flower or foliage, refuses to blend with our landscape,
to adapt itself to our Atlantic skies. It is my hobby, Sergeant, to
discover not only what imported plants will flourish with our soil and
climate, but what particular one is worthiest of cultivation; and,
having discovered that, I propose to bend all my best energies upon
it.... Eh? But where did you get those remarkably fine bulbs?"

Archelaus held out three in the palm of his hand.

"From the garrison garden, sir; with the Governor's compliments, and
understanding you to take an interest in bulbs."

"Daffodils? Some species of narcissus, at any rate."

The Lord Proprietor took one of the bulbs and examined it, turning it
over. "I had no idea that Major Vigoureux--er--went in for this sort of
thing, or I'd have done myself the pleasure of visiting his garden."

"You wouldn't find much in it, sir," said Archelaus, hastily,
remembering yesterday's adventure. "At least not much to interest you.
To tell the truth, the Governor sets very little store by these, though
they look pretty enough in March month. But wanting to show his
feelings in the matter of those trousers----"

"You shall have another pair!"

"Oh!" said Archelaus, in spite of himself, and though he had miserably
foreseen the offer for ten minutes past.

"And you may take back my thanks to the Commandant, and tell him that I
hope, within the next few days, to pay him a call."

Archelaus touched his forelock, bringing up his palm at the right
military salute--in those days a complicated operation. To himself he
breathed a thanksgiving that the Fair Lady (as he and the Treachers
called Vashti) had taken her departure from Garrison Hill overnight.
Ever since breakfast he had been feeling sadly dejected about it and so
(if appearances might be trusted) had his master. There is a fearful
joy, after all, in living on a volcano.

But, alas, for Sergeant Archelaus! He was at this moment standing on
the crust of a volcano, and that crust was momentarily wearing thinner.

The shore beneath the great house of Inniscaw has two landing quays, of
which the eastern (Archelaus had used the western) lies hidden from
view of the terrace, and can be approached by a boat keeping close
under St. Lide's shore. Engrossed in his lecture upon acclimatisation,
the Lord Proprietor had missed to perceive a boat making for this
eastern quay; and so had Archelaus, for the simpler reason that he
stood with his back to the view.

"Step into the house with me, and you shall make your choice between
half-a-dozen pairs," the Lord Proprietor invited him.

"If you are sure it's not troubling you," said Archelaus.

"My good man--" began the Lord Proprietor, leading the way; and with
that he turned about, surprised that Archelaus was not following. "Eh?
What's the matter?"

But Archelaus, speechless, was staring along the terrace to its eastern
end, where, at the head of a flight of steps leading down among the
shrubberies, a head had suddenly uprisen into view--a head in a gray
bonnet with trimmings of subdued violet--the head of Miss Gabriel.

"H'm!" said Miss Gabriel, and turned to Mr. and Mrs. Pope, who were
mounting the stairway at her heels.


CHAPTER XVII

THE LORD PROPRIETOR RECEIVES A DOUBLE SHOCK


"H'm!" said Miss Gabriel again, as she once more surveyed the shrinking
Archelaus. "So you allowed you'd steal a march on me?"

"I had no such thought, ma'am," stammered Archelaus.

"You'll get no good out of it, anyway; and of that I warn you. Good
morning, sir!"--this with a curtsey to the Lord Proprietor.

"Good morning, ma'am! How d'ye do, Pope?--and your good lady is well, I
hope? But to what do I owe this unexpected--er--honour?"

"Him," said Miss Gabriel, nodding, and with scarcely a change of tone.

"To Sergeant Archelaus, ma'am? Why, what has he been doing?"

"You might better ask--" Miss Gabriel answered slowly, emphatically,
with her eye on the culprit--"what he has not."

"Whichever you please, ma'am. Come!"

"I find a difficulty in putting a name to it," pursued Miss Gabriel,
still in the same level tone. "But Mr. Pope will bear me out. If he
doesn't, I shall still allow no false delicacy to stand between me and
my duty."

"Miss Gabriel means, sir," explained Mr. Pope, "that the articles in
question----"

"What articles, man?" asked the Lord Proprietor, as Mr. Pope, in his
turn, hesitated.

"Trousers," said Miss Gabriel, setting her face. "No, Charlotte"--she
turned upon Mrs. Pope--"this is no time for mincing language. They were
on a scarecrow, sir, in the very middle of the garrison garden, along
with my waistcoat----"

"Your waistcoat, ma'am!"

"That is to say, with my antimacassar, which I had converted into a
waistcoat and presented, in the innocence of my heart, to Treacher; the
clothing of these men being nothing short of a scandal. But for
scandal, sir, their clothes won't compare with their doings. Not to
mention----"

"My dear lady, I implore you, let us take one thing at a time! You wish
to make some statement about a scarecrow--in the garrison
garden--adorned (am I right?) with a waistcoat you were once kind
enough to present to Sergeant Treacher, and (I gather) with a pair of
trousers about which you are less explicit." The Lord Proprietor
paused. His eyes grew round with sudden, terrible suspicion. "You don't
mean to tell me--" he asked slowly.

Miss Gabriel nodded, and wagged an accusing forefinger at Archelaus.

"That's just what I _do_ mean. And if you want a picture of guilt, look
at that man!"

The Lord Proprietor turned and stared at him, gasping.

"My trousers? _Mine?_" But here speech failed him, and he stood opening
and shutting his mouth like a newly-landed fish.

Archelaus flung a wild glance about him, vainly seeking escape.

"You're looking at it in the wrong light, all of you," he mumbled,
feebly.

"And on the Sabbath, too!" put in Mrs. Pope.

"This man"--the Lord Proprietor held up a hand as though calling Heaven
to witness--"On what pretence do you suppose that he came here this
morning? Why, to thank me! To thank me for those very--er--articles of
which you tell me he makes a public mock! Look at the bag in his
hand--what do you suppose that it contains?"

"Adders," suggested Mrs. Pope. "I shouldn't be surprised."

"You may well say so, ma'am. It might well be adders. Indeed, I'm not
sure it isn't worse."

"Oh!" Mrs. Pope, already backing before the horrors of her own
imagination, caught at the balustrade for support.

"Daffodils, ma'am! A present of daffodil bulbs, with the Commandant's
compliments, and in acknowledgment of my gift! Could hypocrisy go
farther?"

"Major Vigoureux," said Miss Gabriel, "was never a friend of mine. Let
those who thought better of him defend him now, when he shows himself
in his true colours."

But here Archelaus pulled himself together.

"The Governor," he answered sullenly, "had nothing to do with it. The
Governor was in church at the time, as is well known to all of you."

"Yes, yes," interposed Mrs. Pope. "Let us be just. The Commandant was
certainly in church at the time. On our homeward way we met him
returning from church; and I would add, sir--if you will forgive
me--that he is a gentleman quite incapable of suggesting or conniving
at so vulgar a trick."

"H'm!" The Lord Proprietor accepted this with a snort, for he could not
help being aware of its truth. But his wrath still needed a vent, and
he turned upon Archelaus again.

Undoubtedly, in the old, all these men are not called tagalog: This
was a fraction of that name lived Manila and, by extension, was applied
by the Spaniards all speak the same language it.

This fraction was living Tondo, Manila and peoples around the Pasig, and
therefore, some older, with etymology _como suena_, explained the
formation of the word as a contraction of _taga-ilog_ 'inhabitant
of the river; but this is not possible, because if so there would
be missing the point _í_, even if that had happened, nor how it
could have been accentuated in the second _tagálog_ but _a_ required
by _tagalóg_ and the phonetics of the word similar origin.

Some authors have assumed that this name was a composition of _alog_
meaning 'wade' mean _tagalog_ where 'men or people of the ford. "
Nor are we satisfied with the explanation, and more logical to
accept that it comes from the root _alog_ that in Pangasinan, means
"low land that is filled with rain water," precisely because the
Indians to the arrival of the Spaniards were called in _tagalog_
Manila region inhabited, just as today, lowlands and anegadizas.

Probably in those days were called _alog_ those lands, and the name,
date and obsolete in today's tagalog, was only in Pangasinan. The Indians
who inhabited the highlands were named today as _taga-Bukit (bukit_
'land high) and the mountains _taga-bundok (bundok_ 'mountain'). At the
same lagoon, the inhabitants of their banks are known by the name of
_taga-doongan_, also known as well the inhabitants of the plains. _Doongan_
Means "wharf, place or shore where boats leaning." While in Manila
called _taga-bundok_ the hill in Laguna are known for _tinguianes_. I
was shocked to read some authors call _tingues_, making Note the
difference in language between the inhabitants of the _tingues_ and
valleys. Undoubtedly formerly meant "mountain" and this meaning, now
lost in tagalog, still exists in Malay.

Looking for references on this voice, I found the following in the
vocabulary of Fr Santos: "The Ting are from the mountains of San
Pablo by Nagcarlan until Calaylayan, where he was formerly the seat
of Tayabas, and there are mountains Cabinti up Ulinguling, which
is top of Mabitac.

"Some lines before said: 'typical of the mountains or tinged" which
leaves no doubt about the significance attached to this voice.

_tinguian_ Formed out of _tingui_ with its fixed _an_ used here to name
people. The people of Batangas province we now call the beginning
is not called tagalog. Fr San Agustin, in his History, says (p.
424): "Speak Tagalog language, which calls Comintana, for all that land
called COMINT Province." We can not find the etymology of COMINT,
but let's see the other names that we have set out with the prefix
_taga_. _Tagabawa_ is the name that is designated to crossbreed
_bagobos_, _manobos_ and _tagakaolos_ that, according to Montano,
are scattered on both sides of the heart of Davao (Mindanao) near
the river Son.

_Bawa_ Means "below the bottom", which refers undoubtedly to Rio,
because those who live upriver from the same region are called
_taga-kaolo_ is the meaning of _ka-olo_ 'towards the head, or the
source of the river.

"In Mindanao, known also _tagabaloy_ the name is perhaps a variant
of _tagabeli_ and _tagabulu, _ probably originated from the name
of Lake Bulú-an, but here you get into the ground of assumptions,
because we lack (and I speak personally), and topographic news
linguists strong enough to talk about things in Mindanao.

We know that in the language of many of those tribes in the bagobos,
for example, _taga_ the prefix has the same meaning in tagalog,
wider still, because there is the significance of man who owns or
has this or that object, preceded by the prefix.

On the island of Paragua, Palawan or living on the coast came _moros_
of Jolo and Mindanao and in the few indigenous idolaters considered
Aboriginal struggle with the coast and they call themselves _tagbanuas.
Banua_, voice of Polynesian origin, (_fenua_ "land") means in
most languages bisayas' land, country and population ". Clearly
understands that _tagbanua_ means "man of the country or in other
words, 'Aboriginal'. On the island of Panay _tagubanua_ formerly
called and also _banuanon_ and _tagolabon_ a God who, as they said,
lived in the fields and in the bush.

We should note that in this name linguists observe two processes:
one using the form tagalog, using affixes _taga_ and the second a
form with the suffix bikol _non_ which has the same meaning. * * *
* I * Prefix .

Nearly all the compound nouns with affixes _I_ belong to most hill tribes
of Northern Luzon and are _Ibalibon, Ibilaw, Ifugaw, Igorrote_ (_Igolot_)
_Ilongot, Isinay, Iray, Italon, Itawe.

Ilokanos é Ibanag_ that inhabit the plains, the _Ibalon_ in Southern
Luzon and _Idan_ in Paragua.

To find your etymologies resorted to languages spoken by kagayanes the
ilokanos and gaddanes that are most important in that region. ibanag
The prefix I, language spoken by indigenous people who inhabit the
civilized comarcas Kagay calls and Isabella, who has the same meaning
in tagalog _taga_.

Says Fr Fausto Cuevas of grammar in their ibanag that 'prefix to the names
of provinces, kingdoms and peoples, so noble names: Ilala vg-loc,
loc-man Lal, R Spain, a man from Spain. _Ibanag_ The same name,
means' inhabitant of Banag, "which is the name of the river called
Grande Kagay.

It was originally called _Ibanag_ those who lived on the banks of that
river from Aparry, which is adjacent to the sea more people to
the region called the spread, and more properly from Aparri to Takalawa,
a district of Lalo, to Gataran.

Based on this principle, let us now give the etymology of the other
names mentioned, noting that, as we know them today as españolizada,
we must begin by denying the foreign elements that appear in its
frame, to consider only one indigenous forms.

_italones The (italon) _ lived in the ancient forests that extend to
the northeast of Pampanga, was found today in the mountains of Nueva
Vizcaya and Principe. Language Gadd, _talon_ means "mountain"
with which it follows that _italon_ means "mountain." It comes in support
of this interpretation of the _itaues or itaves_, strictly _itaw_ notice
indicating the termination _es_ plural Castilian, which is the name a
few infidels living in the plains surrounding the above. In Gadd, the
voice _taw_ means' seed '. _Idaya_, Said Blumentritt, which is the
name of a dialect of Kagay Little, however, is but a variant is
called _Iraya_ with a tribe of savages, apparently Coloreds Bold
and Malays, who live south of Kalataganes on the western side of
the mountains of Palawan.

_Daya, Raya or Saya_ means "East" and "South" in several languages of
the region N. Luzon, but in this case refers to E. because, although
we know they are at the S. kalataganes is not the relationship
with these topographic giving the name but its position with respect
to _Itetapanes_.

Here are some Montagnards living in the O. of Isabela in Luzon, west
of the _Idayas_ and the name says so, because in ibanag, _Tatalapan_
and _telapan_ means the "West". The _Katalanganes_ are the same men
who _irayas_, they speak the language and its name comes from the
river on whose banks live, the name which, in turn, is derived from
_Talang_, a species of pine in that spot grows in abundance.
I_gorrotes_ are commonly called the savages who inhabit the mountains
of Luzon and other islands yet, but in the ancient chronicles
Philippines, was known only to that denomination or _Igolot_ best
in its true form indigenous to the infidels Benguet and lived in
the vicinity of Mount Sto.

Thomas. Today is also the name of a bloodthirsty savage Northern
Luzon, but the German ethnographer Hans Meyer Dr.

Schadenberg and then say they should only call them infidels who inhabit
Benguet and Lepanto. The fact is that, as _Tinguian_, the voice
is used in Philippines _igorrote_ as synonymous with "savage
mountain".

This name means the same as _tinguian_ 'mountain' in tagalog _golot_
root, it, means "mountain ridge", and although the voice is not the
only dictionary ibanag that form exists, why can not I do not know
is in that language, as known in the old voice _tingue_ in tagalog.

_inibaloy_ is called a dialect spoken by the Igorots, and this voice
in Iloko, simply means "language of foreigners."

The so-called _Isinays_ are infidels who inhabit the western part of Nueva
Vizcaya, also known by the name of _Ituyes_ by province formerly
called Ituy the region they inhabit.

Its etymology does not seem very clear: _sina_ in Ilocano means
"segregation, separation of people," a voice that seems acceptable
as a radical of the name of tribe, when it considers that another
call is made _ilongot_ the word _longot_, Iloko that means "meeting,
assembly, aggregation of individuals."

These same _ilongotes_, customs and bloodthirsty savages who inhabit
the regions bordering the provinces of Nueva Vizcaya, Isabela and
Principe, are also called _ibilaos_ (form Indigenous _ibilaw_),
whose etymology, for more efforts that I made, I was in complete darkness.
The _italones_ mention that before we are of the same tribe race: at
least say that the Dominican missionaries _italones_ of senior
people of Nueva Ecija, belong to _ibilaos_ and these are also known
by the name of _ilongot_.

Another tribe numerous Malay race who lived in the mountains of Nueva
Vizcaya and Isabela, is called _Ifugaw_, which appears to be one of the
oldest in Luzon and the etymology which explains ibanag where we see
_iafugw_ means' island '. Today, all individuals of that race, who
formed a group called silipanes, quianganes, mayoyaos and bungianes
(topographic names) have been reconcentrados to establish ranches
and towns Quiangan command.

It was called _yogades ( yogad) _ _gaddañes_ or some montañeces who
currently inhabit the slopes of the Cordillera central, western
boundary of the province of Isabela from the left bank of the Magat
River, river end of the Mercedes to the jurisdiction of the Christian
people of Itawes.

The etymology of both names gives us the language ibanag that looks
like the Gadd, proving that _gaddan_ and _yogad_ have the same
meaning and origin, is only the first name _lugar_ and second
_tribu_.

Both stem from the radical _gad_ whose oldest _ugad_, but it means
ibanag 'high seed.

"The root, followed by the suffix _an_ means' place of the high
seed" as _payaw_ we wanted to say "or of low seed irrigation.

"_gaddan_ residents, well known today _lugar_ with this name,
became known as the old name of persons, which is formed with the
prefix _yogad_ whose meaning _i_ know _ugad_ radical and more _gad_
which we examined . have failed my research on the etymology of
other names such as _iloko_ that involve suggestions by analogy,
derived from _ilog_ 'inhabitant of the river, "without noting that
the radical referred to ends with g, and Voice review by k: the
addition of the word i _ilog_, river, is not, as in _iloko_, a
prefix, but an integral part of the radical.

I can not say anything about _ibalon_, that the old name given to the
people of Camarines.

_Ilamut_, Igorot tribe in the mountain range that lies between Nueva
Vizcaya and Benguet, seem formed from the radical gadda _lamut_,
'mixed', meaning maybe mongrel is only likely etymology.

_Idaya_ variable _yraya_ is already before us. _Ilanos, Illanes, LANOS,
wool, malanao_ are names given to certain people pirates off the
coast of Mindanao.

Are different forms of composition lanun_ radical _lanao or geographical
name of a part of that island. * * * * * Prefix _Ma_. In almost all
languages _may_ Philippines or its contraction _ma_ or _me_ is a
prefix meaning 'have, possess' .

It will form adjectives. _puti_ Of radical white _maputi_ is "who is
white", ie white _matamís_ of _tamis_ that has or has sweetness,
"sweet." There are a lot of names that were then applied to the inhabitants
of the Instead, as _Maguindanaw, Malanaw Mamanuas, &. &.

_Maguindanaw_ _ is the indigenous name of the island of Mindanao, or
rather only a part of it. Its inhabitants are called the same way.
_Danaw Comes from, water _ and lagoon, and this name was applied
to that region around the large lagoon _Danaw_.

_illanos Known to the Moors, ilanos_, they are also called _Malanaw_:
You same derivation that Maguindanaw: _lanaw_, variant _danaw_, and
the voice _illano_, strictly _ilano_, has the same origin with
affixes i used more in the languages of the northern archipelago.

_mamanuas_ are the infidels who inhabit the peninsula Surigao
and the shores of Lake mainita (Mindanao).

Fr Jaime Planas Jesuit called "black aborigines of Mindanao", identical
to the opinion of Jesuit PJB Heras confirmed by the French
ethnographer Mr.

Montano.

The etymology lends support to this view, showing that the name
derives from the Little _Banua_ land, country; _mamanua_ 'inhabitants
of the country, with a phonetic transformation of _b_ in _m_.

A mountain tribe of infidels in the interior of Mindanao, whose region
I is not accurately known, is called _mananap_ or _mananapes_ as Spanish.
In the language of bagobos, _mananap_ means "beast, animal" which discusses
the concept that these neighbors have the same island that is
called _manobos_, bagobo voice that means "man." These are race Manobo
Malaysian and living in the Agusan River from Butuan to Moncayo:
also found in other sites on the main island at Cape San Agustin, on
the east coast of Davao and the island of Sarangani Tumanao or Eastern.
Also named to the other idolatrous infidels in Mindanao, and is easy to
understand that this term embraces distant tribes so widely according
to what it really means.

The Jesuit Fr Pastells spoke about _manguan_ or _mangulangan_
called infidels living in the vicinity of Cateel (Mindanao) and the
upper river Salug. Its name means "man or inhabitants of the jungle."
Infidels The inhabitants of the interior of the island of Mindoro are
called _Manguianes_. In tagalog, bisaya and Bikol, _Manguian_ means
"wild, Ranger, black infidels", so that the use of voice is common to
many Filipinos, however, has been applied only to certain inhabitants
of Mindoro. Originally, without doubt, this name was given only to those
who today take him on that island, but its use in three languages shows
us that the Philippines _ngian_ was radical in a sense all these
languages now forgotten.

That still exists in pampanga and radical means "old", so that we can
deduce that _mangian_ name that is applied to men as old people and as
such pushed inside by the invaders in modern languages are called
'old' . As turned out that the newcomers were or were more civilized
than the defeated or pushed into the mountains, consider these as Maroons
or wild and ancient appeal took new meaning for this extension. So
it is with the voice _tagbanua_ whose etymology we have clarified, "the
country's natural," because that name means Rangers now infidels "Paragua
some wild, simply because the idea of" wild "replaces the old meaning
of the voice that was lost with many others. * * * * * _Ka_ and affixes
_An_ suffix.

It is common to almost all languages Philippines adjectives and
nouns to form with the procedure prepend prefix to the root _ka_
and postpone _an_.

Usually the names of compounds are well place and referred to these
have been implemented after its inhabitants. This applies to Kagay,
Kalaga, Kalibugan, Katalangan, Katubagan and many others. Other.
Just as we have seen the names and Igorot tinguian applied indiscriminately
to the infidels who inhabit the mountains, and also found in northern
Luzon as the name _Kalinga_ generally applied to the mountain in that
region that we read the writings of the friars brought the voice of the
_Calinguismo_. Some other tribes are mutually _Kalinga_ name and the
reason is simple: in almost all dialects sigifica "enemy", and as
the main occupation of those wild is a constant struggle of one
tribe to another, it is clear that all called with the same voice:
'enemy' _kalinga_.

_non_ suffix is used in Bikol and also as _taga_ in tagalog bisaya,
we see that some call _buquidnon_ Malay race of infidels who inhabit
the tip of the District of Misamis Oriental and that the Spaniards
call _monteses_ really is filipino translation of the name they
carry.

For the peasants were called in bisayas _banuahanon_ of _banua_ 'land,
country ".

_tirurays_ The Mindanao call themselves _etew rootor_' top people
'(the river), _etew dawa_,' people from below, the plain, the slopes
of the rivers, _etew dogot_ 'Seafarer', the coast and the _etew
tuduk_ the mountain.

The lack of vocabulary of all dialects Filipinos will not allow me to
continue a fruitful etymological study of the full names of races
or tribes, but this is what we all have the same or identical
training.

Cagayan, inhabit the mountains of Naksiping and Tubang few infidels
_aripas_ called peaceful.

Removing the final s, which is Spanish plural, was _aripa_ that ibanag
means' slave '.

The find out the etymology of _ita, Aeta or ata_ names in various
languages that are known _negritos_ Philippines, has taken the dream
of many ethnographic who have dealt in these interesting islands.
As little could he understand Tregarthen or Tregarthen's language. Some
gadfly must have stung the man. A few acres of the barrenest land in
the whole archipelago--and the fellow talked as though he were being
dispossessed of an Eden! Yes, and as though that were not enough, he
had used the flattest disrespect. The Lord Proprietor was not
accustomed to disrespect. From the first his Islanders had treated him
with the deference due to a king. Save and except the Commandant, no
man had ever crossed his will or disputed his authority.

His rage swung back again upon the Commandant. It was all very well to
plead that the Commandant had been in church at the time; but, after
all, an officer must be held responsible for his men's doings. Let
Major Vigoureux beware! More than once the Lord Proprietor had been
minded to memorialise the War Office and inquire why the taxpayers'
money should be wasted to maintain three superannuated soldiers at full
pay in a deserted barracks.

"Upon my word," said the Lord Proprietor to himself, "I've a mind to
run over to Garrison Hill and ask Vigoureux what the devil he means by
it. Either he knows of this, or he doesn't: I'll soon learn which. In
either case I'll have an apology; and, what's more, I'll teach him
who's master here, once for all."

He had reached the terrace, and paused there for a moment to draw
breath after his climb, at the same time throwing a glance across the
blue waters of the roadstead towards Garrison Hill and the white
buildings upon it slumbrous in the autumn haze. The glance threatened
mischief to that unconscious fortress and a sharp nod of the head
confirmed the threat.

"Yes, yes, this very afternoon! The sooner the better!"

He swung about and stepped across the terrace to a French window that
stood open to the air and sunshine. It was the window of the morning
room, where he usually took his luncheon, and he passed in briskly,
meaning to ring the bell and give orders to have the meal served at
once. But, as he stepped across the low sill somebody rose in the
room's cool shadow and confronted him, and he fell back catching at the
jamb for support and staring.

It was the stranger herself: the woman for whom they had all been
vainly searching!

"Good morning!" said Vashti, with a self-possessed little bow. "Oh, but
I fear I have startled you?"

"Ah--er--" the Lord Proprietor pulled himself together with an
effort--"Well, to tell the truth? you did take me by surprise; the more
so that----"

"It was dreadfully uncivil of me--not to say impudent--to walk in here
unannounced. But the fact is I could find no door along the terrace;
nothing but windows. Forgive me."

"Certainly, madam, certainly.... The front door is, so to speak, at the
rear of the building.... But I was going to say that you took me the
more by surprise because, as a matter of fact, I had just given up
hunting for you."

Vashti laughed. She looked adorably cool and provoking; and still, as
he stared at her, the Lord Proprietor wondered more and more whence in
the world she came. He knew little of female beauty (the late Lady
Hutchins had been plain-featured) and less of clothes; but three or
four times in his life, at public functions, he had mixed with the
great ones of the land, and here patently was one of them. Her speech,
dress, bearing, all proclaimed it; her easy self-possession, too, and
air of authority. Out of what Olympus had she descended upon these
remote Atlantic isles?

"I saw that you had company," she answered, "and I ran away. To tell
you the truth I was a little afraid of them--that is to say, of some of
them. But what was Archelaus doing here?"

The Lord Proprietor frowned.

"Did he come to apologise? Oh, but that is just one of the reasons that
brought me here! You must not be angry with Archelaus; no, really, it
was not his fault, at all, but mine."

"I think, ma'am," said the Lord Proprietor, "we are talking at
cross-purposes."

"No, no, we are not," she corrected him briskly with a little laugh.
"We are talking about that unhappy scarecrow." She paused, as though
checked by irrepressible mirth, and he flushed hotly. "And no, again!"
she went on, perceiving this; "I was laughing at Archelaus--poor
fellow!--overtaken here by his accusers. Did they make it very painful
for him?"

"Even supposing him capable of shame--which I doubt--I certainly do not
think he suffered more than he deserved."

"You are very much annoyed?" asked Vashti, suddenly serious. "Well,
then, I am sorry. It was all my suggestion--though it never entered my
head that anyone would be walking that way and catch sight of--of the
thing. I meant it to be a little surprise for the Commandant when he
came home from church; though when he returned and heard what had
happened, he scolded me terribly."

"You will excuse me"--the Lord Proprietor drew himself up stiffly--"if
I fail to see either where the humour comes in, or why you--a stranger,
unknown to me even by name----"

"Ah, to be sure! My name is Cara."

"Then, as I was saying, Miss Cara, I fail to see----"

"And you are quite right of course," Vashti made haste to agree. "I
ought not to have done it. But weren't you, too, a little bit to blame?
It wasn't very nice of you, you know."

"I beg your pardon? What wasn't very nice of me?"

"Why, to hurt their feelings; and especially the Commandant's. He is a
poor man; poor, and sensitive, and easily hurt."

"You are talking to me in riddles, Miss Cara. I have done nothing at
all to hurt the Commandant's feelings."

"Not intentionally, of course. I told him--and I told the sergeant
too--that I was sure you never meant to wound them. It would have been
too cruel."

"But," protested the Lord Proprietor, "I have done nothing, I tell you;
nothing beyond presenting Sergeant Archelaus with--with an article of
attire of which he stood badly in need. Miss Gabriel, some weeks ago,
drew my attention to the state of the poor fellow's--er--wardrobe, and
suggested that something might be done."

"I thought so," Vashti nodded. "I dare say now," she went on, after
seeming to muse for a moment, "you are one of those strong-minded men
who find it hard to understand how sensible people can worry over what
they put on their backs!"

"That happens to be a constant source of wonder with me," he confessed;
"though for the life of me I can't tell how you came to guess it."

"Never mind how I guessed it," said Vashti, smiling. "The point is,
that you take this lofty and very scornful view of clothes, and yet you
must have noticed that many men of your acquaintance--men otherwise
sensible--take quite another; that in the city, for instance, a hard
felt hat is not usually worn with a frock coat."

"Granted," said the Lord Proprietor; "though I could never understand
why."

"And you have noticed that soldiers are even more particular; and the
reason with them is perhaps a little more easily grasped. Their uniform
is a symbol, so to speak. It stands for the service to which a good
soldier should be devoted."

"If you had seen that man's small-clothes!"

"Yes, I grant that Archelaus neglects his regimentals. But to neglect
them, and to be willing to mix them up with civilian clothes, are two
very different things. Perhaps you did not think of this?"

"Really, now," answered Sir Cæsar, "I should not have supposed that it
mattered what these men wore, in such an out-of-the-world spot."

Vashti's eyes rested on him for a second or two, in a kind of wondering
despair at his obtuseness. But she controlled herself to reply quite
patiently:

"At any rate, it was wrong of me to encourage the men's resentment, and
I came here this morning to beg your pardon."

He acknowledged this with a bow, but stood silent for a moment, eyeing
her.

"You are a relative of Major Vigoureux?" he asked, after a pause.

"No."

"You are staying with him, I understand?"

"No." Vashti shook her head, with a smile. "But I very much want you to
forgive me," she went on; "for I have another favour to ask you."

Again he bowed slightly. "You give my curiosity no rest, Miss Cara, and
I perceive you mean to satisfy it only in your own way. As for
the--er--incident we have been discussing, pray consider that--so far
as you are concerned--I dismiss it." He did so with a slight wave of
the hand. "You wish to ask me a favour?"

"I do. I came to plead with you; to say a word on behalf of Eli
Tregarthen, your tenant on Saaron Island."

The Lord Proprietor started. "Are you at the bottom of that also?" he
asked, angrily.

Vashti's eyes opened wide in astonishment.

"I beg your pardon?" she murmured. "I do not understand."

"It seems to me," he caught her up, "that for a total stranger, you are
losing remarkably little time."

"In what, sir?" she demanded, facing him fairly, with a lift of her
handsome chin.

"In subverting my authority, ma'am; or, rather, in prompting others to
subvert it.... Though, to be sure," he went on, in sarcastic wrath, "it
may again be an accident that I happened on Eli Tregarthen less than an
hour ago, and that he used very insolent language to me in the presence
of my agent."

"It was not only an accident," said Vashti, slowly, and with patent
sincerity; "it was one that, since I came here to urge his suit, I
would have given a great deal to prevent." She paused, and for a moment
seemed to be musing. "Must I understand, then, that you refuse to hear
a word in his favour?"

"The man is a fool!" Sir Cæsar clasped his hands behind him under his
coat-tails, and paced the room. "His insolence to me apart, he is a
complete fool! I offer him the choice of two farms--either one of them
acre for acre, worth twice the rental of Saaron.... I simply cannot
understand!"

"No," said Vashti, with a little sigh, "you cannot understand."

He had reached the fireplace, and wheeled round on her, his back to the
hearth and his legs a-straddle.

"What can I not understand?" he demanded.

"Many things." Vashti met his eyes for a moment, then turned her own to
the window and the blue waterways beyond the terrace, beyond the massed
tree-tops of the pleasure grounds. "Many things, and the Islands in
particular. You did not understand just now that a soldier, though
condemned to stand sentry in a forgotten outpost, can still be
sensitive for the honour of his service, because the root of his life
lies there. You cannot understand that the root of Eli Tregarthen's
life goes down into the soil he has tilled from childhood as his
parents tilled it. To you Garrison Hill is a tumble-down fort, and
Saaron Island a barren rock; yet you call them yours, because you have
purchased them. And, nevertheless--to do you justice--you are not one
who rates everything by its price in money. If you were, I could beg
you to take a higher rent for Saaron and leave Eli Tregarthen
undisturbed."

He shook his head. "The man pays me a fair rent; as much as I can
conscientiously ask. I have a conscience, Miss Cara, and a sense of
responsibility. It is not good that Tregarthen lets his children run
wild there, so far from school."

"And if, sir," she went on, "you are doing this for the children's
sake, I could promise you that there are means to educate them better
than any children on the Islands. But the difficulty does not lie with
the children. It lies in your sense of possession, which makes Saaron
Farm there"--she waved a hand--"an eyesore in the view from this
window, and simply because Eli Tregarthen has crossed your will. You
defend an instinct of selfishness that takes about five minutes to pass
into a principle with any man who buys land. You maintain the
landlord's right to ordain the lives on your estate, and command them
to be as you think best; nor does it seem to you to affect your claim
for power that we understood and drew our nature from the Islands for
years before ever you came to hear of them."

"Radicalism, ma'am!"

"Yes, sir. It is for the roots I plead, against your claim that the
surface gives all."

He thrust his hands under his coat-tails again, and took a turn up and
down the room.

"I do not affect to agree with you, Miss Cara," said he, not looking
towards her when she stood by the French window, but stretching out his
hand to the bell. "Yet, as owner of these Islands, I desire to be just.
I desire also to understand these Islanders, of whom, it appears, you
know so much more than I. And if you do me the honour to take luncheon
with me--" Here he broke off, to ring at the bell-pull. "But I warn you
I am tenacious as well as curious, and shall demand to know a little
more of my lecturer."

He turned and stood blinking. Vashti had disappeared. The room was
empty.

He took a step to the open window, sprang out upon the terrace, and
glanced to right and left.

The terrace, too, was empty. He hurried to the stairway leading down
through the shrubberies. Not so much as the glimpse of a flying skirt
rewarded him.


CHAPTER XIX

THE COMMANDANT'S CONSCIENCE


"The Lord Proprietor to see you, sir!"

Archelaus, presenting himself at the door of the Commandant's office,
with a slightly flushed but inscrutable face, drew aside and flattened
himself against the door-jamb to let Sir Cæsar enter.

The Commandant closed the book in which he had been adding up accounts
which never came right, and stood up in something of a flurry. He was
dressed with more than ordinary care. The lapels and collar of his
uniform-coat had been treated to a vigorous brushing. In fact, he was
arrayed for action: to step down the hill in an hour's time, to call
upon Mr. Fossell at the Bank and draw his pay, if any should be
forthcoming.

"Good morning, Major!"

"Good morning, Sir Cæsar." The Commandant nodded towards a chair.

"I thank you." Sir Cæsar set down his hat upon the edge of the
writing-table, drew off his gloves, tossed them into his hat, and
seated himself. "I--er--called in the first place to speak about an
unfortunate--er--incident that happened on Garrison Hill here last
Sunday."

"Ah," said the Commandant, "so you have heard about it? I am sorry."

"Sorry for what, sir?"

"Sorry that anyone should have thought it worth while to carry tales to
you; but also sorry for the incident itself."

"It appears to me, Major Vigoureux, that the incident demands some
apology."

"I have made it."

Sir Cæsar crossed his legs and coughed to clear his throat. "I think,
my dear sir," said he, in a tone at once slightly pompous and slightly
nervous, "I really think it's time that you and I came to an
understanding; that we--er--recognised, so to speak, the situation, and
played with the cards on the table. Do you agree with me?"

"I might," answered the Commandant, guardedly; "that is to say, if I
understood."

"I acquit you, of course, of any active share in the incident, and I am
assured that Archelaus and Treacher were no worse than accomplices. It
appears that the real culprit was a totally different person, and," he
went on, after a glance at the Commandant's face, which betrayed
nothing, "it may save time if I tell you that she has confessed to me."

"Excuse me, I was not proposing to make any remark."

"But who in the world is the young person?"

The Commandant's eyebrows arched themselves slightly. "She is a lady,"
he answered, in a dry voice. "If she omitted to tell you her name, the
omission was no doubt intentional, and she has carried her confession
just so far as she intended it to go."

"She called herself Cara; but the name tells me nothing. Who is she? I
agree with you as to her address and appearance: she is in every
respect--er--presentable. A relative, may I inquire?"

"No."

"A friend, then? You will pardon me? A delicate question to put, of
course."

Again the Commandant's eyebrows went up slightly. "She was my guest for
a day or two," he answered.

"_Was?_ Then where in the world is she staying now?"

"If she did not tell you--" began the Commandant, but Sir Cæsar
interrupted him impatiently.

"Tell me? Devil a bit of it, and that's partly why I'm here. Vanished
like a witch, begad, while I was turning to ring the bell! And where
she went or where she came from are mysteries alike to me."

"Why, then," the Commandant pursued, in a steady musing voice, "it
seems to follow that, even if I knew, I have not her permission to
tell."

The Lord Proprietor uncrossed and recrossed his legs irritably. "Come,
come, Vigoureux, this will hardly do. Will it, now? I put it to you as
a man of the world. No doubt it's all innocent enough, but folks will
talk. And, after all, I'm responsible for any--er--scandal affecting
the Islands. Hey?"

The Commandant rose with a sudden flush on his face.

"Scandal, Sir Cæsar? Oh, to be sure, I cannot understand you."

"Tut-tut!" The Lord Proprietor smiled. "Of course, we know there's
nothing in it. A young lady--youngish, at least--and you old enough to
be her father. But, all the same, tongues will wag."

"And they have been wagging?" The Commandant, after a short turn across
the room and back, stood over him, his hands crossed under his coat
tails. "But yours, sir, is the only one that has dared to wag in my
presence."

"Sir!" The Lord Proprietor jumped to his feet.

"You have put many humiliations upon me, Sir Cæsar; and because they
affected me only, I have endured them. But in this you go too far."

The Lord Proprietor, on the verge of an angry retort, checked himself,
with a short laugh.

"I refuse to lose my temper with you," said he. "You are unreasonable.
You misconceive me as imputing scandal when, as a matter of fact, I was
trying to assure you that I rejected the imputation. For me, the
disparity in age alone----"

The Commandant, with a wave of his hand to the door, turned away
wearily.

"I merely thought it right to warn you," pursued Sir Cæsar, taking
heart of grace as his opponent appeared to weaken, "that others may be
less charitable. And they look to me. I think--I really think--you
might consider the delicacy of my position; that I am--er--ultimately
responsible for the good name of these Islands."

But here he paused with a start; for the Commandant had wheeled about
suddenly, and stood over him, and the Commandant's eyes were dangerous.

"Sir Cæsar"--the Commandant controlled his voice with an effort, for it
shook a little--"in the last few minutes some things have been made
plain to me which were hitherto obscure. I have wondered sometimes,
here in these forsaken barracks, at actions of yours which seemed
deliberately calculated to annoy one who--Heaven knows--started with
every wish to be friendly. Saving my own small personal dignity, of
which from indolence I have been too careless, I have reserved nothing
of my old importance in these Islands which, before you purchased them,
I had governed. Men, even the least assuming, do not forfeit all power,
all consideration, without a wrench; and I am but human. I relinquished
them, and without the help of a single kind word from you, by which the
sacrifice might at least have been mitigated. I wondered. Later, when
you heaped one small humiliation upon another, I concluded that I must
have had the misfortune to incur your personal dislike, and told
myself, after searching for the cause and finding none, that personal
dislikes are usually inexplicable. But now I see that I have been doing
you an injustice; that your affronts were not considered; that you have
all along, likely enough, been entirely unconscious of offence; that,
in short, you are as Heaven made you, and I cannot hold a quarrel with
any man's mere defects, whether congenital or of breeding. I shall not
waste time by inquiring to which of the two classes your obtuseness
should justly be assigned. It is enough that I recognise the mistake
and apologise for it. I see now that you are obtuse--that and nothing
more. But since your obtuseness wounds more than you can possibly
divine; and since in this instance it injures a lady, I shall ask you
to pay my poor quarters the last respect you owe them, and quit them
without further discussion."

He stepped to his writing-table and struck on a small hand-bell.
Promptly on the summons Sergeant Archelaus appeared in the doorway; so
promptly, indeed, that he might have found it hard, under
cross-examination, to rebut the charge of having stood listening
outside.

The Lord Proprietor, however, was in no condition to put a searching
question. He arose, gasping, his eyes rolling from the Commandant to
Archelaus and back. He felt for his hat like a man groping in the dark,
clutched it, and set it on his head with an experimental air, as though
it would not have entirely surprised him to find his feet in the place
of his head.

"I suppose," he stammered, "it has occurred to you that you may pay for
this?"

"It occurred to me," answered the Commandant, coolly and amiably, "that
you might threaten it."

"You shall, by God!"

The Commandant bowed.

"You shall certainly repent this, sir." The Lord Proprietor crammed his
hat on his head.

"May I ask you to observe that my servant is standing in the doorway?"

Sir Cæsar turned, shot a glance at Archelaus, and for an instant
appeared to be on the point of including master and man in one
denunciation. But either he thought better of it or his rage choked
him. With a final tap on the crown of his hat, to settle it firmly on
his brows, he strode past the rigid figure by the threshold and out
into the open air.

He had never been so outraged! For fifty or a hundred yards, as he
descended the hill, his fury almost blinded him. His face was
congested; the back of his neck swollen and purple, as though apoplexy
threatened. His ears showed red as a turkey's wattles. He stumbled on
the ill-paved path. What! To be lectured thus by a man whose continued
residence on the Islands was a public scandal--a fellow who, past all
usefulness, lived on in lazy desuetude, content to take the taxpayers'
money while doing nothing in return! And the worst--the gall, the
wormwood of it--was that this despised foe had silenced him--nay, had
silenced him almost contemptuously. "But wait a bit, my fine fellow!"
swore the Lord Proprietor, blundering down the hill. "Wait until we
hear what the War Office has to say about your precious garrison; or
until, failing satisfaction there, I get a question asked in Parliament
about you!"

Could the Lord Proprietor have looked back at this moment into the room
where sat the victorious enemy, he might have been in some measure
consoled.

The Commandant, having dismissed Archelaus with a wave of the hand,
waited while the door closed, and dropping into the chair before his
writing-table, bowed his head upon his hands.... Oh, it is easy to talk
lightly of riches, and of the power that riches give! But in this world
it is not so easy for a man with just one penny in his pocket to stand
up against an enemy solidly backed by a banking account. He feels that
though his cause be right and his conscience clear, his position is
precarious: that the world, if it knew the truth, would regard him
almost as an imposter. The feeling may be unreasonable, the fear
cowardly; but there it is, and it had cost the Commandant all his pluck
to face the encounter out. Moreover, his conscience was not clear.

Sir Cæsar, too, had (all unwittingly) planted an arrow and left it to
rankle. "Old enough to be her father!" The Commandant shut his lips
hard upon the pain. He could not expel it: he knew it would awake again
in the watches of the night: but for the present he must ignore it. He
had a second ordeal to face.

As he sat there for a minute or two, his face resting on his hands, his
spirit abandoned to weakness, he heard the steady ticking of the clock
on the chimney-piece behind him. He counted the strokes, and all of a
sudden they recalled him to the present. He pulled himself together,
stood up, and, reaching down a clothes-brush from its hook beside the
door, walked over to the chimney-piece and to a small mirror that stood
behind the clock.

"Old enough to be her father." Again, as he caught sight of his face in
the glass the smart revived; but again he expressed it, and fell to
brushing his worn tunic with extreme care. It had always been his
practice to dress punctiliously before going into action, even on dark
nights in front of Sevastopol, where all niceties of dress were lost at
once in the slush of the trenches. His forage-cap received almost as
careful a brushing as his tunic: and from his cap he turned his
attention to the knees of his trousers and to his boots, one of which
was cracked, albeit not noticeably. He had half a mind to black its
edges over with pen and ink, but refrained. Somehow it suggested
imposture, and to-day he winced sensitively away from the first hint of
imposture. He must walk down-hill delicately, like Agag. To-morrow
Harvey, the Garland Town cobbler, would repair the damage with a couple
of stitches, at the cost of one penny: and the Commandant reflected
with a melancholy smile that he possessed precisely that sum.

His toilet complete, he took a last look in the mirror to assure
himself that his face betrayed none of the anxiety eating at his heart.
It was paler than ordinary, but calm. He drew a long breath, and walked
out to the front door. At his feet the chimneys of the small town sent
up their mid-day smoke; beyond, the Atlantic twinkled with its
innumerable smile. The hour was come. As he stepped out upon the road
he cast a glance to right and left along his deserted batteries, and
answered the smile of Ocean whimsically, ruefully. If only, as an
artilleryman, he could have summoned Mr. Fossell's Bank by a dropping
shot! This business of hand-to-hand assault belonged by rights to
another branch of the service.

Mr. Fossell stood behind the counter in conference with a junior clerk,
and the sunshine pouring through the windows--the only plate-glass
windows in Garland Town--gilded the dome of Mr. Fossell's bald head. As
the Commandant entered, Mr. Fossell looked up and nodded pleasantly, in
a neighbourly way, albeit with a touch of ironical interrogation. He
had heard gossip from his friend Pope of the doings on Garrison Hill,
and, so far as he allowed himself to be jocose, he meant his glance to
be interpreted. "Well, you are a pretty fellow! And pray what account
are you going to give of yourself?" But very different thoughts
preoccupied the Commandant, and his fears took alarm.

"Good morning," said the Commandant, and forced a smile. "You have been
expecting me, I hope?"

"Dear, dear!" Mr. Fossell affected surprise. "You don't tell me that
pay-day has come round again already?" This again, was a form of
pleasantry which he repeated month after month; but to-day he slightly
over-acted it.

"The--the money is here?" stammered the Commandant.

"My dear Major, I hope so--I sincerely hope so," Mr. Fossell answered,
with a humorous look around him. "I do most sincerely trust we may be
able to meet your demand for--let me see, fifteen-eighteen-six, is it
not?--without being forced to put up the shutters." Mr. Fossell
chuckled quietly.

The Commandant drew a long breath.

"Always supposing," resumed Mr. Fossell, "that the draft is in order,
as usual; on which point, to tell you the truth, I have been too busy
to satisfy myself. But the paper arrived two days ago, and is in my
office--if you will excuse me for a moment."

He stepped towards a door at the back, panelled with frosted glass,
opened it, and disappeared into his office. The Commandant waited.
Three minutes passed.

"Very fine weather, sir, for the time of the year," said the clerk,
blotting an entry and looking up from his ledger.

Any remaining obstacle cleared them away; Schwefelabgüsse existing,
cataloged, were to control, it should be necessary to be in a clean
box wrapped with the originals, and a very small room which summed
up easily transportable treasures.

So we took loyal farewell, but without immediately to another, the
princess announced to me that they wanted me to accompany the next
station, set to me in the car, which was followed theirs. The major
points of the life and teaching came again to the language: I repeated
mild and calm my usual credo, even where they remained theirs.

Every now moved his way home, after she left with the desire to not
be here where I am, but there again.

This formula farewell courtesy Catholics probably thinking I
was not unfamiliar, nor contrary: I had it often in temporary pools and
acquaintances in other mostly benevolent, kindly affectionate to
me to hear priests, and I do not see why I should verargen anyone
who wants me in his circle to be drawn, where after his conviction
alone and live in peace, assured of eternal bliss, quietly die
leaves. * * * * * By preparedness, at the suggestion of the noble
friend, I became master of the post not only promoted rapidly, but
also by race slips further declared and recommended, which is
pleasant and highly necessary.

Because I had a beautiful, friendly, peaceful Entertainment forget
that war escape me after storms, and unfortunately I was on the
horde of emigrated, always continue to hineindrängte Germany and
against the Postillion just as on the Rhine were favorably minded.

Gar gebahnter often no way that we went over there soon blad strokes,
met and crossed.

Heath and scrub bushes, blunt roots, sand, mud and rushes, one so
uncomfortable and unpleasant as the other. Even without passion, it was
not starting. A car was stuck, Paul quickly jumped down and to help: he
believed that the beautiful French women, which he in Dusseldorf in the
saddest circumstances encountered again, were again in the case,
to require his assistance.

The lady had her husband not recovered and was in the vortex of
misfortune with fortgerissen and geängstigt finally across the
Rhine had been thrown.

Here in this desert, but they seemed not some venerable old ladies
called our participation. But our Postillion hold his horses and with
the car there should come to their aid, he defiantly refused and said
that we should only be our own, with silver and gold enough cars
complained earnestly to see, so we were not stuck or would be
overturned because if he is equal with us in good faith believe
that such circumstances' but it in this desert for nothing.

Fortunately, our conscience to appease, had a number Westphalian
peasants gathered around those cars and conditioned against a good
tip him back onto the mobile launched.

To our wagon, was the iron, the heaviest, and the precious treasure
which we led with us, as light to a light chaise not noticed them.

How vividly wishes' I bring my Bohemian cart!

Nevertheless, that gave me bias, which is important treasures in our
advance continued, but always a kind of restlessness.

We had noticed that a Postillion the other note about the seriousness
of the car and the presumption of money and valuables at
any time surviving. But because we were ahead postal note their correct
hours We anyway because of bad weather did not comply with, at each
station hurriedly pushed forward and in fact quite the night pushed,
because we really bängliche the case met that dark night in Postillion
oath, the thing he could not continue to bring, and to a lonely forest
dwelling stillhielt, and their location, construction, and residents
have had the brightest sunshine can cause a shudder.

The day, even the grauste, did not rest, you come the memory of
friends out with you so recently been brought confidential hours;
we mustered them with respect and love, taught to their peculiarities
and built on its merits.

As the night but again hereinbrach because you felt once again from
all worries umstrickt kummer in a good condition. As bleak as well
as in the last and darkest of all nights my thoughts might have been,
they were suddenly brightened again, I came into this with hundreds
and hundreds lamps illuminated Kassel drove into it.

In this view developed in my mind all the advantages of an urban
bourgeois-together, which Wohlhäbigkeit of each individual in his
enlightened from inside the apartment and comfortable offices to
host the strangers.

Laughter, however, this was me for some time disturbed than I on the
gorgeous days Shellen Königsplatz to the well-known inn anfuhr: notifying
the servant returned with the explanation that it was no place
to find.

When I wanted but not soft, there was a waiter very politely to the
beat and asked in beautiful French phrases to apologize because it
was not possible to me. I replied in good English, how I should be
surprised that such a large building, whose space I do probably know,
an alien in the night, the host would be denied. "They are a German!"
he exclaimed, "that's another!" and then he let the Postillion
in the Hoftor hereinfahren. When he sent me a decorous rooms instructed,
he returned, he was determined to no longer be incorporated emigrated.
Their demeanor was extremely arrogant, stingy to pay, because
in the midst of her misery, because they did not know where they
should turn, they cheat are still, as if they had been conquered
by a land taken.

So I'm now resigned in good peace and was on his way to Eisenach
Zudrang so less frequently and unexpectedly driven out guests. My arrival
in Weimar should not remain without adventure, it occurred after
midnight and gave rise to a family scene, which probably in any
novel illuminate the deepest darkness and would cheer up.

Well, I found by my lord to me some new, well-furnished house has mostly
habitable, without the joy that I would have failed entirely in the
expansion-and interact with. Mine said to me cheerfully and healthy,
and when she went to a narrative, albeit contrasted the serene, peaceful
state in which they sent from Verdun sweets enjoyed, with that,
what we, the states they believed in paradise, with all possible
Not to be faced.

Our quiet domestic circle was now even richer and happier completed
by Henry Meyer, as a house companion, artist, art lover and employee,
be ours and all teachings and all effective force took part.

Weimarsche The theater has since May 1791 it had both the summer
of that year as well as in the current Lauchstädt to persuade, and
then by repeating viable, most major pieces already played pretty
well together.

The rest of the Bello Mosche society, so people have coped, gave
the bottom, others have some useful, some promising elements decorous
and leisurely fill the resulting gap.

One can say that there was still an actor gave the craft, which enables
members to even distant theaters quickly put in line, especially
if one was so happy, for the recitation of Low German, the German
upper herbeizuziehen singing, and so was the audience for the
beginning of even well-satisfied.

Since I participate in the direction taken me so it was a fun job,
mildly, to attempt, by what means the company could be continued.
I even saw soon that a certain technology from imitation, and
equality with other routine could emerge, it was missing quite
alone in what I call grammar is expected, but only for the reason
must lie before going to rhetoric and poetry can reach.

As I return to this subject and remember it for do not like wants
to hack, so I only say this much: that I have just those techniques,
which are all from Overdelivery appropriates to study and to their
elements and looking back, what became clear to me and in some cases
without recourse to a General noted was observed.

What struck me in this enterprise, but especially zustatten that
was then on hand and increasing natural Konversationston, although
highly commendable and gratifying is when he was finished art, as
a second nature emerges, but not if everyone thinks only his own
naked beings to be able to get to something worthy of applause
darzubieten.

But I used it to shoot my purposes, even when I could probably be
satisfied if the inborn nature with freedom hervortat to gradually, by
certain rules and orders, a higher education can lead to contrary.

But I can not speak it, because what has been done and done, is only
gradually developed by itself and therefore had to be shown historically.
Circumstances, however, the new theater for the most favorable
hervortaten, miss, I recently argued. Iffland and Kotzebue flourished
best in their time, their pieces, natural and tangible, a law against
a bourgeois comfort, the other against a loose morals hingewendet
freedom, both were Gesine the day and received in accordance with
joyful participation, more so than through the manuscript feasted
lively scent of the moment, they brought with them.

Schroeder, Babo, Ziegler, happy energetic talents, provided significant
contribution; Bretzner and disciples, also at the same time, gave
a comfortable unpretentious cheerfulness room.

Hagemann and Hagemeister, talents, based on the length could not hold,
working also for the day and were where not admired, but as a new
compatriots and welcome. This lively, in the circle herumtreibende
mass looked with Shakespeare, Gozzi and Schiller to raise spirits,
we left the old style, just next to New einzustudieren loss, it was
careful in the choice and have prepared a repertory, which is kept
for many years has.

But the man, who helped found this institution, we have a rewarding
reminder not guilty to stay. It was FJ Fischer, an actor in years, of
his craft understood, moderate, without passion, with his happy
state, with a limited role contenting specialist.

He brought several actors from Prague, which in his
mind worked, and knew the local easy to handle, so an inner peace
about the whole thing spread. What opera is concerned, came to us
Dittersdorf work for the best zustatten.

He was happy with the temperament and humor for a princely private theater
work, making his productions some slight comfort was given, which
also benefited us, because we have our new theater-lovers as a stage
to consider the wisdom had.

In the text, and in rhythmic prose sense, we spent a lot of effort to
make it taste the more imbalances obersächsischen, and so won the
applause light goods and severance.

The friends returned from Italy sought to facilitate the Italian
operas of the time, from Paesiello , Cimarosa, Guglielmi and others,
herüberzuführen, where as well as Mozart's spirit groups began. Think
you that all of this little known, nothing was abgebraucht, then you
admit that the beginnings of the weimar chen theater with the youthful
days of the German theater in general, or both occurred and enjoyed
advantages that seem to be a natural development from within even
the purest of the occasion had to pass.

To now but also enjoyment and study of the entrusted Gemmensammlung
vorzubreiten and secure, I had two dainty ring box manufacture, in
which the stones with a view overseeable stood side by side, so
that any gap at once would have been noted; what then sulfur and
plaster majority in manufactures and the examination by strong
magnifying lenses have been subjected, even existing prints of older
collections vorgesucht and consulted.

We probably noticed that for us the study of cut stones to create it,
but how big the benefit of the girlfriend was, was only gradually accessed.
The result of several years of observation was therefore switched
here because we are probably difficult to turn our attention as soon
back to this point should apply. From inside the grounds of art saw
the weimar chen entitled Friends, where not all, but by far the
largest number of these cut stones of genuine monuments of ancient
art and, although there were several among them, which resulted in the
finest This type of work could be expected. Some are characterized by
the fact that they are really identical with sulfur older pastes to
be had, we noticed several of which display with other antique gems
met, but it still could apply for real. In the largest collections of
ideas are repeated, and we would very much mistaken, as an original,
the others as modern copies of them.

Always we have to the noble art of loyalty Altenkirchen bear in mind
that the once happy successful treatment of a subject not often was
enough to repeat.

Those artists were reserved for genuine enough, if they are an
original idea and identifying them in their own way again present
ability and skill saw. Several stones were also incised with artist's
name, which for years we had great value. One such ingredient is
always oddly enough, but they often problematic because it is possible
that the old stone and new name was incised to the noble one factor to
lend.

    Whether we are right here how cheap
    everything cataloging, since no description of such artworks
reproduction little word there, so let us be under no, some of the
finest general hints to give.

Head of Hercules. Admirable considering the noble, free taste of the
work, and even more to admire in terms of the beautiful ideal
forms, which none of the known Hercules heads exactly agree and
that is the delicious strangeness of this monument still proliferate
help. Bust of Bacchus. Work, as on the stone gehaucht, and in terms of
the ideal forms one of the finest ancient works.

It can be found in various collections of several similar pieces of
this, whenever we remember right, both as a high-low cut, but we do
not become known, which in the current preference deserved. faun,
which Bacchantin one wants to steal the robe.

Noble and ancient monuments several occurring composition, also worked
well. Toppled a lyre, two dolphins whose horns represent the body
or, if you will, the foot of Cupid head, crowned with roses, the
same is Bacchus' Panther, in the front paw Thyrsusstab the
conservative, dainty grouped.

The execution of this piece will satisfy the connoisseur, and he who loves
delicate importance, will also find his account. Mask, with a big
beard and wide open mouth, a Efeuranke umschlingt the bald forehead.

In his kind like this one of the stone allervorzüglichsten, and
equally estimable, is also another mask with beard and long hair petite
aufgebundenen; worked unusually deep. Soaks the Venus Amor.
One of the loveliest groups that you can see, witty treated, but
without great expense of diligence. Cybele on a lion riding, deep-cut:
a plant, which was great lovers through fingerprints, which are
almost in all pastes collections are to be found, enough is known.
Gigant with a gripper from its rocky cave hervorzieht. A work of art
very much as a statement of earnings and perhaps all alone. The magnified
replica of the same place before our readers Voßschen program to
Jenaischen ALZ 1804, Volume IV. Helmeted head in profile, with a big
beard. Maybe it's a mask, however, it has nothing in the least
cartoon-like, but a stocky helden moderate face, and has worked
splendidly.

Homer, as Hermes, almost from scratch and presented very deep cut. The
poet seems here less than usual, little in the beginning of the old
age, so this works not only by art, but also because of the object
estimated. In collections of prints cut stones is often the head
of a venerable elderly man with long beard and hair encountered that -
but without having reason to be - the portrait of Aristophanes
should be. Similarly, only minor deviations from that under
outgoing head is encountered in our collection and in fact one of the
best pieces.

The profile is probably unknown about the brown eyes and found abandoned
in recent times back to the stone ring which had been ground.
Great and full of life, we have never been human figure in the
small room displayed a Gemme seen, rarely the case, where the artists
as unrestricted assets showed.

From a similar salary is also unknown, the portrait drawn on the
head with lion's skin was the same as the previous aborted on the
eye, only the missing gold is added.

Head of an elderly man of stocky, strong character, with short
hair geschornen. Extremely witty and masterly work, especially the bold
treatment of Barts to admire and perhaps unique in its kind male
head or chest image without a beard, the hair to have a binding that
is rich folded robe on the right shoulder stapled.

It is a witty , strong expression in this work and outline how you
used to be attributed to the Julius Caesar. male head, also without
a beard, the toga, as was used in sacrifices, on the main draw. Extremely
much truth and character in this face, and there is no doubt that
the work really old and from the times of the first Roman emperor.

Bust of a Roman lady, the main double lichens of serpentine hair, the
whole thing out and admirably diligent in respects the character full
truth, comfort, naivety, life. Kleiner, helmeted head, with thick
beard, and strong character, quite out of the front and estimable
work. One newer excellent stone we remember the end: the head of
Medusa in which beautiful carnelian. It is known that of the medusa
Sosikles completely similar, and small deviations can hardly be noted.
However, one of the excellent imitations of ancient works, because
for such a unerachtet he wants his great merits but to hold, since
the treatment a little less freedom, and moreover, under the section
of the neck attached N seems to work by itself suggests Natter .

At that few are true art lovers the high value of the vaunted collection
guessed property. Where they are present, is unknown to us, perhaps
this would give you some news that a wealthy art lover probably could
incentivize this treasure, if it is salable, is zuzueignen. The weimar
art chen friends went as long as this collection was in their hands,
all possible advantage of this. Even in the current winter, it gave
the witty society, which is the duchess Amalie to unite maintained,
excellent entertainment. They looked in the study of cut stones to
justify us being the good graces of the owner, very excellent zustatten
came by us several years of this pleasure treat. But they feasted nearing
its end still vivid in the beautiful order in which the rings in two
boxes at once, as they never seen such complete order back and saw
the gift that is great confidence that had nobly to enjoy.

Even after a other hand, turned our art considerations. I had enough
colors in different living conditions observed, and saw the hope of
finally their art harmony, what to look for, I was actually expected
to find. Friend Meyer designed various compositions, where it
is partly in a row, sometimes in contrast to testing and evaluation was
set up.

    The clearest when it was simple scenery
    objects, where the light side is always the Yellow
    Red and yellow, dark side of the blue
    red and blue are allocated had, but because of diversity of natural
objects even slightly brown through green and blue green to convey.

Also had great master here already earned by example, more than
in the historic, where the artist in choice of colors on the
garments themselves and left in such a predicament and come after
Overdelivery picks, also by some well-meaning and thus can be seduced
by often true harmonic representation is derived.

From such studies, visual arts, I feel because it pushed back to the
theater and go back on my own relationship to some of the same considerations
to be made, which I only wanted to avoid. One should think that it
was the best opportunity was for the new theater and also for the German
as a writer on some of my side to make, because, as seen, was between
the above authors and their productions have some space, even
probably could have, it was obviously easier to have multiple fabric
treatment that you may only have up.

But quite clearly to be memorial I my first dramatic work, which,
in world history nationals, into too much width decreased, to
stagelike liable to be my last, the deepest inner mind devoted,
found in their appearance because of too much confinement little
input.

However, I had me some medium technology rehearsed, the more moderately
pleasing to the theater would have been able, but I am out of the
substance, or rather a substance overcame my inner moral nature,
allerwiderspenstigste to dramatic treatment.

Already in 1785 frightened me the necklace as the main story of Gorgone.
Through this incredibly outrageous bad start, I saw the dignity of
majesty undermined, destroyed in advance, and all subsequent steps of
this time on confirmed, unfortunately, too much terrible
hunches.

I wore them with me to Italy and brought them back even sharpened.
Fortunately my ward "Tasso" yet, but then took the world-historical
presence of my mind completely. With chagrin, I had many years of the
fraud and intentional audacious fantasy lovers had the opportunity
to curse me and incomprehensible blindness on the excellent people
at such a cheeky intrusiveness with reluctance puzzled.

Now, the direct and indirect consequences of such folly and a crime
against the majesty Halbverbrechen before me, all together effectively
enough.

To the most beautiful throne of the world to shake.

"Hullo!" he exclaimed, as his eyes fell upon the empty packing-case.
"You don't mean to tell me that you've been smuggling?"

The Commandant shook his head and laughed, albeit with some confusion.
"The steamer brought it this morning. I assure you it held nothing
contraband.... But I hope that little game is not starting afresh in
the Islands? It gave us a deal of trouble in the old days; and there
was quite an outbreak of it, as I remember, some three or four years
before you came to us. Old Penkivel"--this was Mr. Rogers'
predecessor--"used to declare that it turned his hair gray."

"He told me something beside, on the morning he sailed for the
mainland; which was that but for the help you gave him as Governor he
could never have grappled with it. Maybe this was sticking in my head
just now when I started to walk up here and consult you."

"Well, and what is the matter?"

"Oh, a trifle.... Do you happen to know Tregarthen, the fellow that
farms Saaron Island?"

The Commandant started.

"Eli Tregarthen? Yes, certainly ... that is to say, as I know pretty
well everybody in the Islands."

"What sort of a fellow?"

"Quiet; steady; works on his farm like a horse, week in and week out;
never speaks out of his turn, and says little enough when his turn
comes."

"That sort is often the deepest," observed Mr. Rogers sententiously,
and puffed. "And Saaron Island there, close by the Roads, lies very
handy for a little illicit work."

"You are right, so far," the Commandant admitted; "and history bears
you out. In the old kelp-making days, when half-a-dozen families lived
on it, Saaron gave more trouble than any two islands of its size."

"It's none the less handy for being deserted." Mr. Rogers drew out a
penknife and meditatively loosened the tobacco in his pipe.

"Handier. But you are wrong in suspecting Tregarthen; that is, unless
you have good tangible evidence."

"I don't say that it amounts to much, but it's tangible. In fact, his
boat is lying here, just now, close under the Keg of Butter."

The Commandant turned on his heel and took a pace or two towards the
window, to hide his perturbation and give himself time to consider....
Vashti's boat! And Vashti on the premises at this moment! What was to
be done? How on earth could he get her away?

"You discovered this yourself?" he found himself asking.

"No; I happened to be in the Watch House with the chief boatman
checking the store-sheets, when Beesley, whose watch it is, came in and
reported. I see what you're driving at. Your own boat is lying under
the Keg of Butter, as everybody knows, and you suggest that I am duffer
enough to mistake her in the darkness for a boat at least two-foot
longer."

Mr. Rogers laughed good-naturedly.

"But the answer is," he went on, "that Beesley found two boats lying
there; and Beesley, who knows every craft in the Islands, swears that
the one belongs to you no more certainly than the other to Farmer
Tregarthen. Moreover, she was moored on a shore line, and we pulled her
in and examined her. Sure enough we found name and owner's name cut on
her transom--'Two Sisters: E. Tregarthen.' Now, what d'you make of it?"

"Very little," answered the Commandant, recovering himself; "and that
little in all likelihood quite innocent. Someone, we'll say, wishes to
cross over from Saaron to St. Lide's this evening--on any simple
errand, say to fetch a parcel from the steamer. Why shouldn't that
someone, knowing the Keg of Butter to be good shelter with plenty of
water at all tides, have landed and left the boat there?"

Mr. Rogers shook his head. "Why there, and not at the pier? The pier
lies almost a mile nearer, and there's a fair wind--or almost a fair
one--for returning; while from the Keg of Butter no one can fetch
Saaron under a couple of tacks. That's my first point. Secondly, if Eli
Tregarthen has honest business here, whether with the steamer to fetch
a parcel (parcels must be running in your head to-night), or in the
town to fetch a doctor, the pier is obviously his landing-place. Why,
there isn't a house in the Island, barring these Barracks, that doesn't
stand half-a-mile nearer the pier; not to mention that landing at the
Keg of Butter involves a perfectly unnecessary climb up one side of
Garrison Hill and down the other. Lastly, my dear sir, look at the
time! Close on eleven o'clock, and all Garland Town in their beds.
Again, I ask what honest business can Eli Tregarthen have here at such
an hour?"

The Commandant felt himself cornered. An insane hope crossed his mind
that, while the Lieutenant sat talking, Vashti had contrived to slip
out of the house and down to the shore. It was followed by a saner one,
that she had done nothing of the sort; for, to a certainty, the boat
would be guarded.

"You have taken precautions?" he asked, and felt himself flushing at
the dishonesty of the question.

"I have posted Beesley in charge, and sent the chief boatman off to the
pier-head to keep a close watch on the steamer. She sails at
seven-thirty to-morrow, and though I never heard a hint against her
skipper, it's only right to be careful. I've amused myself before now,
planning imaginary frauds on the revenue; and if anyone cares to risk
opening up that game afresh, the Islands still give him a-plenty of
openings."

"Yes, yes," agreed the Commandant, and checked a groan. He had thought
of warning Vashti to slip down to the quay and borrow a boat there
without asking leave. Some explanation might be trumped up on the
morrow--as that the wind was foul for returning from the Keg of Butter.
No one would accuse Eli Tregarthen of borrowing a boat with intent to
steal: his taking it would be no more than a neighbourly liberty.

But, with the chief boatman watching the pier-head, she would be
discovered to a certainty.

The Commandant's last hope was gone.

Just as he realised this, to his utter astonishment, he heard the voice
of Archelaus grumbling outside in the passage. And Archelaus had gone
to rest an hour ago!

"Pretty time of night this, to come breaking a man's rest!" growled the
voice of Archelaus, audibly, and not without viciousness, as though he
meant it to be heard.

"Good Lord!" exclaimed Mr. Rogers. "You don't tell me we've roused the
old fellow out of bed? And I reckoned I was making no more noise than a
mouse!"

"He may have heard you throw that gravel against the pane." The
Commandant took a step towards the door, but halted irresolutely.

"Then he's a light sleeper," commented Mr. Rogers, "and an even more
dilatory dresser. Why, good heavens!"--the Lieutenant started up from
his chair--"he's undoing the bolts! Somebody's at the front door: one
of my men to report, I'll bet a fiver!"

He would have rushed out into the passage, but the Commandant caught
him by the arm.

"No need to hurry, my friend! Whoever it is, Archelaus will bring
word."

Many hasty surmises whirled together in the Commandant's brain--the
first, and hastiest, that Vashti, unable to make her escape, had
aroused Archelaus, and that Archelaus was unbarring the door for her on
the pretence of hearing a knock. Even so, she would be caught as soon
as she reached the shore. Still, occasion might be snatched to send
Archelaus after her to warn her; she might hide for the night at the
Castle under Mrs. Treacher's friendly wing. The instant need was to
hold back the Lieutenant from discovering her in the passage, and to
the Lieutenant's arm our Commandant clung.

"My good sir," expostulated Mr. Rogers, "it _must_ be one of my men.
Who else, at this hour?"

He fell back a step as the door opened.

"A person to see you, sir; from Saaron!" announced Archelaus. "Shall I
show her in?"

Before either could answer, Vashti herself stood on the threshold.

Of the two men, the Lieutenant excusably showed the blankest
astonishment. But the Commandant had to catch at the rail of a chair.
Vashti had discarded her cloak of furs, and faced him now in such garb
as is worn by the poorest in the Islands: a short gown of hodden gray,
coarse-knitted stockings, and stout shoes. Across her shoulder, for a
"turn-over," she wore a faded shawl of Tartan pattern. (The Commandant
recognised it for a surplus one which Mrs. Treacher kept in the
Barracks kitchen, to wear "against the draughts" on occasions when she
helped Archelaus with the cooking.) But most wonderful of all was her
hair. By some swift art the heavy coil had been drawn into two flat
bands, brought low over the forehead, and carried back over the ears in
a fashion almost slatternly. By no art could Vashti conceal that she
was beautiful. She was also too wise to attempt it. But, for the rest,
she had transformed herself.

"If you please, sir," she began timidly, with an Island curtsey, and
paused as if uncertain, at sight of Mr. Rogers, whether to hold her
ground or to flee: "If you please, sir, I be that frightened!"

Accent, intonation--both were perfect, of the true Island speech, that
delicate incommunicable sing-song. The Commandant's eyes grew rounder
yet with amazement, and Vashti--afraid, perhaps, of meeting them--flung
a glance of mock terror behind her, as though she had caught the
footfall of a pursuer.

"But--but who in the world--" stammered Mr. Rogers.

"If you please, gentlemen"--she turned, with another quick curtsey--"my
name is Vazzy Cara, and I come from Saaron. I live there with my
sister, Ruth, that is wife to Eli Tregarthen----"

Mr. Rogers gave a low whistle.

"It's true, sir--true as I stand here! The Governor knows me, and will
bear me out--won't you, sir?... A terrible way from Saaron it is, and
at this hour of night.... But ask the Governor, sir, and he'll tell you
I am a respectable woman; sister to Mrs. Tregarthen, and lives with her
to look after the children."

"Yes, yes," interrupted the Lieutenant, losing patience. "But the
question is, how you came here, and why?"

Vashti stood panting. By the heave of her bosom it was plain to see
that either her fears still possessed her or that she had been running
for dear life, and must catch breath. Her hand went up to her bodice.

"I came, sir, to see the Governor--all the way across from Saaron.
Eli--that's my sister's husband--is in terrible trouble over there,
because the Lord Proprietor means to turn him off his farm. Yes,
say!"--she drew a letter from her bodice, and went on with rising
voice. "Turn us out he will, though the Tregarthens have lived on the
Island ever since Saaron was Saaron. The Governor, here, in his time
would never have done such wickedness, nor suffered it, being a just
gentleman and merciful, as all the folk can bear witness. And so,
thinks I, he may be able to help us yet; and if able he will be
willing."

She held out the letter towards the Commandant, who took it and turned
it over vaguely between his fingers, not opening it, nor daring to meet
her eyes.

"And so," continued Mr. Rogers, "you took your brother-in-law's
boat--without his knowledge----"

Vashti nodded. "Yes, sir; I took it unbeknowns. He's a very quiet man,
is my sister's husband, and don't like it that other folks, 'specially
women, should mix themselves up in his affairs."

"Then he's a sensible fellow as well as a quiet one."

"Yes, sir." Vashti took the correction meekly, with downcast look.

"And still less, I'll bet," Mr. Rogers continued, "would he be pleased
to know that one of his woman-kind was straying across to St. Lide's at
this hour of the night."

"Oh, sir," she caught him up, "but that's where I've been hindered!
For, wishing to have word with the Governor, and no one the wiser, I
brought the boat to shore down yonder, under the Keg of Butter, and
there the coastguards have found it, and are waiting by it to catch me,
and what answer to give them I can't think, nor how to account for
myself. Seemin' to me they're everywhere, and all around me in the
darkness!"

Mr. Rogers broke into a laugh. "It appears, Commandant, that I have
found a mare's nest; always supposing that this tale is a true one.
You'll excuse me, ma'am, but service is service."

The Commandant had turned to his writing-table, and was holding the
letter under the lamplight.

"I can go bail for Miss Cara," he answered, but without looking up.
"Undoubtedly she comes from Saaron, and is Mrs. Tregarthen's sister.
Also this letter, though we cannot deal with it to-night, is addressed
to Eli Tregarthen in the Lord Proprietor's handwriting. It gives him
formal notice to quit and deliver up his farm. I can give no hope of
help--no hope at all." Here his voice trembled slightly. "The most I
can promise is to consider it."

"And the best we can do for the moment is to escort Miss Cara down to
her boat and get one of my men to sail her back to her island."

"I incline to think," said the Commandant, after a pause, "that Miss
Cara--from what I have seen of her skill--is competent to sail back
alone. If not, I would suggest that you or I escort her, towing my boat
across for the return journey. In any case, if we can get your men out
of the way, it would be wiser, perhaps, for her sake."

"And for mine, begad!" agreed the Lieutenant! "Else I shall have every
man of them grinning behind my back for a month of Sundays. 'Rogers'
smuggling-chase'--I can hear the villains chuckling over it.... But I
say, though"--he turned on Vashti admiringly--"you'll want an escort
across, eh? You don't tell me you're man enough to handle that boat
alone?"

"If you please, sir."

"The Channel's none too easy on a dark night."

Vashti smiled. "My father taught it to me, sir, before I was ten years
old. I could sail it blindfold."

"And you have the nerve?... And yet just now, the dark frightened you,
and you ran for your life!"

"No," said Vashti, demurely, "I just stood still."

"Well, come along! And when you get to the Battery, you'll have to
stand still again, and wait until I report the coast clear. Commandant,
will you give Miss Cara your arm, while I run ahead."

They stepped out together into the night. Vashti neither took the
Commandant's arm nor spoke to him, even after Mr. Rogers had passed
ahead out of earshot. Only when the pair had reached the dark battery,
and were waiting there on the dark platform above the sea, she turned
to him and asked--

"Shall you be busy to-morrow?"

"I am never busy."

"I have left my cloak and the guitar with Archelaus."

"I will bring them to Saaron to-morrow."

She turned away and leaned over the low parapet to the left. Some way
below a footfall sounded, on the track leading to the watch-house---the
footfall of Beesley. A stone, dislodged by his tread, trickled and fell
over the cliff into night.

                    *      *      *      *      *

"Curious!" remarked Mr. Rogers, confidentially, to the Commandant,
twenty minutes later, as they stood and peered into the darkness after
Vashti's boat. "Here I am, stuck on these Islands (so to speak) with a
telescope held to my eye. Of the folk upon 'em I see next to nothing.
Now, I don't know if you took note of it, but that's a remarkable
looking woman; a remarkably handsome woman; and I've spent these years
here without guessing that such a woman existed hereabouts. Eh?" Mr.
Rogers relapsed into mild facetiousness. "If you were a younger man,
Commandant, I could hatch up a pretty story out of to-night's
doings--and if I didn't mind a laugh against myself."


CHAPTER XXII

PIPER'S HOLE


Annet, Linnet, and Matthew Henry sat side by side on the granite roller
by the gate and watched their friend Jan eat his mid-morning snack--or
"mungey," as it is called in the Islands. It consisted, as a rule, of a
crust of bread, but Jan had supplemented it to-day with a turnip, which
he cut into slices with his pocket-knife. He had been pulling turnips
since six o'clock. "And I reckon this'll be the last time of askin',"
he commented, letting his eyes wander over the field as he seated
himself on a shaft of the cart, which had been brought to await the
loading.

The children knew that they would soon be quitting Saaron, and that the
prospect distressed their father and mother. They had discussed it, and
agreed together that it was a great shame to be turned out of their
home, and that the Lord Proprietor must be a hard-hearted tyrant; but
secretly they looked forward to the change with a good deal of
excitement, not being of an age to fathom the troubles of grown-up
folk. After all, Brefar lay close at hand and was familiar. Brefar was
populous, and across there they would find many playmates. Brefar, too,
held out great promise of adventure after sea-birds' eggs and
expeditions of discovery; and if ever the home-sickness came upon them
they would cross the sands at low-water and revisit the old haunts and
the deserted house. All these consolations, however, they kept to
themselves. It would never do to abandon the family grievance merely
because it presented a bright side. They felt, as older folks have been
known to feel, that a sense of injury carries with it a sense of
importance.

"I wonder," said Linnet, severely, "that you can have the heart to talk
about it, Jan."

"Jan has no feelings about leaving Saaron," said Annet, more in sorrow
than in anger. "Why should he--coming from the mainland?"

"But Jan was born on the Islands," Matthew Henry objected; "and that
will be a long time ago."

"Silly! As if you could belong to the Islands by being born here! Why,
to belong to them, your father and mother must have been Islanders, and
your grandfathers and grandmothers, and right back into the greats and
great-greats. And then you never want to go away or live anywhere else
in the world."

Matthew Henry pursed up his small mouth dubiously. He himself had
sometimes wished to live in the wilds of America, or on a South Sea
Island; even to visit Australia and have a try at walking upside down.
There must be a flaw in Annet's argument somewhere.

"But if Jan comes from the mainland--" he began.

"Cornwall," said Jan, tranquilly, his mouth full of raw turnip.

"Then you ought to want to go back to it."

"I mean to, one of these fine days."

"I shouldn't put it off too long, if I were you," advised Linnet,
candidly. "You're getting up in years, and the next thing you'll be
dead."

"But didn't your father ever want to go back?" asked Matthew Henry,
sticking to his point.

"No fear."

"Why?"

"Because, if he'd showed his face back in Cornwall, they'd have hanged
him; that's all."

"Oh!" exclaimed the three, almost simultaneously, and sat for a moment
or two gazing on Jan in awed silence.

"But why should they want to hang your father?" asked Annet.

Jan sliced his bread with an air of noble indifference. "Eh? Why,
indeed? He used to say 'twas for being too frolicsome. He never done no
wrong--not what you might call wrong: or so he maintained, an' 'twasn't
for me to disbelieve 'en. Was it, now?"

"You'll tell us about it, Jan dear?" coaxed Annet.

"There's no particular story in it." (The children put this aside; it
was Jan's formula for starting a tale.) "My father, in his young days,
lived at a place in Cornwall called Luxulyan, and arned his wages as a
tinner at a stream-work----"

"What is a stream-work?" asked Matthew Henry.

"A stream-work is a moor beside a river, where the mud is full of ore,
washed down from the country above--sometimes from the old mines. The
streamers dig this mud up and wash it through sieves, and so they get
the tin. There was enough of it, my father said, in Luxulyan Couse to
keep a captain and twelve men in good wages and pay for a feast once a
year at the Rising Sun Public House. The supper took place some time in
the week before Christmas, and they called it Pie-crust Night, though I
can't tell you why. Well, one Pie-crust Night, after this yearly
supper--the most enjoyable he had ever known--my father left the Rising
Sun towards midnight, and started to walk to his home in Luxulyan
Churchtown. He had a fair dollop of beer inside of him, but nothing (as
he ever maintained), to excuse what followed, and he got so far as
Tregarden Down without accident. Now, this Tregarden Down, as he always
described it to me, is a lonesome place given over to brackenfern and
strewn about with great granite boulders, and on one of these boulders
my father sat down, because the night was clear and a fancy had come
into his head to count the stars. He sat there staring up and counting
till he reached twenty score, and with that he felt he was getting a
crick in the back of his neck, and brought his eyes down to earth
again. It seemed to him that, even in the dark, a change had come over
the down since he'd been sittin' there, and the whole lie of the ground
had a furrin look. Hows'ever, he hadn't much time to puzzle about this,
for lo and behold! as he stared about him, what should he see under the
lew of the next rock but a party of little people, none of 'em more
than a thumb high, dancing in a ring upon the turf! They broke off and
laughed as soon as my father caught sight of 'em; and, says one little
whipper-snapper, stepping forward and pulling off his cap with a bow,
'Good evening, my man!' 'Sir to you!' says my father. 'There's a good
liquor at the Rising Sun,' says the little man. 'None better,' says my
father. 'I know by a deal better,' says the little man. 'Would you like
to taste it?' 'Would I not?' says my father. 'Well, then,' says the
little man, 'there's a shipfull of wine gone ashore early this night on
Par Sands, and maybe the Par folk haven't had time yet to clear the
cargo. What d'ee say to _Ho! and away for Par Beach!_ Eh?' 'With all
the pleasure in life,' says my father, thinkin' it a joke; so '_Ho! and
away for Par Beach!_' he calls out, mimicking the little man. The words
weren't scarcely out of his mouth before a wind seemed to catch him up,
though gently, from his seat on the boulder, and in two twinklings he
was standin' on Par Sands. There was a strong sea running, and out
beyond the edge of the tide my father spied a ship breaking up. But if
she broke up fast, her cargo was meltin' faster, for a whole crowd of
folk had gathered on the sands, and were rolling the casks of wine up
from the water and carting them away for dear life. My father and the
little people couldn't much as ever lay hands on a solitary one, and,
what was worse they hadn't but fairly broached it before a cry went up
that the Preventive men were coming. Sure enough, my father, pricking
up his ears, could hear horses gallopin' down along the road above the
sands. 'Dear, dear!' says the little man, 'this is a most annoyin'
thing to happen! But luckily I know a place where there's better liquor
still, and no risk of bein' interrupted. So _Ho! and away for Squire
Tremayne's cellar!_'

"'_Ho! and away for Squire Tremayne's cellar!_' called out my father;
and the next thing he knew he found himself in the cellar of Squire
Tremayne's great house at Heligan, knocking around with the small
people among casks of wine and barrels of beer galore. To do him
justice, he never pretended he didn't make use of the occasion. In
fact, he fuddled himself so that when the little gentleman called out
'_Ho! and away!_ for the next randivoo' (whatever that might ha' been),
he missed to take up the catchword, bein' asleep belike. So there the
piskies left him asleep, with his head in a waste saucer and his mouth
under the drip of a spigot; and there the butler found him the next
morning, knocking his shins among the butts and barrels in the
darkness, and calling out to know what the dickens had taken Tregarden
Down and the rocks o't, that they grew so pesky close together. The
butler haled him upstairs to the Squire, and the Squire heard his
story, and not only said he didn't believe a word o't, but (bein' a
magistrate) packed him off to Bodmin Jail for burglary. I don't blame
the man altogether," said Jan, reflectively; "for, come to think of it,
my father's account of himself lay a bit off the ordinary run, and
belike he wasn't in any condition to put it clearly.

"At any rate, to jail he went, and from jail he was delivered up to the
Judges at Assize, and the Judges sentenced my poor father to death,
which was the punishment for burglary in those times, and, for all I
know, it may be the same on the mainland to this day.

"The morning came when he was to be put out of the world; and, as I
needn't tell you, it gathered a great crowd together, to have a look at
the last of a man that had so little sense of wickedness as to take
liberties with a gentleman's wine and spirits. There my poor father
stood under the gallows-tree with none to befriend 'en, when all of a
sudden he heard a shouting up the street, and down along it, through
the crowd, came a strange little lady, holding up her hand and a paper
in it. The folk opened way respectful-like, seein' by the better-most
air of her that she belonged to one of the gentry, and along she came
to the scaffold. 'Good mornin', ma'am, and what can I do for you?' says
the Sheriff, steppin' forward, with a lift of his hat. He held out a
hand for the paper; but the little lady turns to my father, and pipes
out in a little voice, very clear and sweet, '_Ho! and away for the
Islands!_' Glad enough was my father to hear the sound of it. '_Ho! and
away for the Islands!_' he answers, pat; and in two twinks he and the
little lady were off in the sky like a puff of smoke, and the crowd
left miles below. The next thing he knew he was sittin' on a rock, over
yonder in Inniscaw, by the mouth of Piper's Hole, and starin' at the
sea. So he picks himself together and walks up to North Inniscaw Farm
(as 'twas called in those days), and there he took service and married
and lived steady ever after. Leastways----"

"Leastways," said a voice at the gate, "he gave over drinking except
when his master ran a cargo of brandy, and he never gave his wife
trouble but once, when he took home a mermaid and made the good soul
jealous."

"Aunt Vazzy!" cried the children. "Why, how long have you been standin'
there?"

"Long enough to hear the end of the story, and how Jan's father came to
the Islands through Piper's Hole."

"But," Linnet objected, "Jan didn't say that his father came through
Piper's Hole; only that he found himself on the rocks in front of it.
They came through the air, he and the little lady, didn't they, Jan?"

Jan shook his head. "They started to come through the air," he answered
cautiously.

"Everybody knows that the fairies always pass to and fro through
Piper's Hole," said Annet, in a positive voice. "The mermaids, too. The
cave there goes right through Inniscaw and under the sea, and comes up
again in the mainland. Nobody living has ever gone that way; but Farmer
Santo had an uncle once that owned a sheep-dog that wandered into
Piper's Hole and was lost, and a month later it turned up on the
mainland with all its hair off."

"It do go in a terrible long way, to be sure," Jan admitted; "for I
made a trial of it myself, one time, at low water. First of all you
come to a pool, and, then, about fifty yards further, to another pool,
and into that I went plump, coming upon it sudden, in the darkness. I
swallowed a bellyful of it, too, and the water--if you'll believe
me--was quite fresh. I didn't try no further, because, in the first
place, the tide was rising, and because, when I pulled myself out, I
heard a sound on t'other side of the pool like as if some creature was
breathin' hard there in the darkness. It properly raised my hair, and I
turned tail."

"Fie, Jan! Ran away from a mermaid!" said Vashti, laughing. "You should
have brought her home and married her."

"I don't want to marry no woman with a tail like a fish, nor no woman
that makes thikky noise with her breathin'," maintained Jan. "That's to
say, if merrymaid it were, which I doubts. But you're wrong about my
father, Miss Vazzy. He see'd a merrymaid sure 'nough; but he never took
her home. No, he was too much of a gentleman, besides bein' afeard o'
my mother. If you want the story, he was down in Piper's Hole one day
warping ashore some few kegs of brandy that had been sunk thereabouts
by a Rosco trader. Mr. Pope's father, that was agent to th' old Duke,
used to employ my father regular on this business, knowing him for a
silent man, and one to be trusted; and my father had made a very pretty
catchet some way back-along in the cave, big enough to hold two score
of kegs, and well above reach of the sea-water. But, o' course, while
he was at this kind of work, Mr. Pope had to wink an eye now and then
if one o' the kegs leaked a bit. Well, my father had finished his job
that day in a sweatin' hurry, the tide bein' nearabouts on the top of
the flood, and at the end, all the kegs bein' stowed, he spiled one
'for the good of the house,' as he put it, and drew off a tot in a tin
panikin he kept handy. With this and his pipe he settled himself down
'pon a dry ledge and waited for the tide to run back.

"Out beyond the mouth of the hole he could see a patch of blue sky, and
the little waves under it glancin' in the sunshine; and belike the
dazzle of it, or else the tot of brandy, made him feel drowsy-like.
Anyhow, he woke up to see that the tide had run out a bravish lot,
leavin' the sands high and dry. But, as you know, there's a pool o'
water close inside the entrance, and what should my father see in the
pool but a woman's head and shoulders!

"She had raised herself out of the water with her hands restin' on a
slab of rock, and over the rock she stared at my father, like as if she
wanted help, and again like as if she felt too timid to ask. And when I
called her a woman I said wrong; for she was more like a child, and a
frightened one, with terrible pretty eyes, and her long hair shed down
over her shoulders, drippin' wet, and in colour between gold and
sea-green. 'Hullo!' said my father, 'and who might you be, makin' so
bold?' At the sound of his speech she gave a little scritch at first,
and bobbed down face-under, so that her hair lay afloat and spread
itself all over the water like sea-weed. My father walked up closer.
'Nonsense, my dear,' says he, in his coaxin' voice, 'there's nothin' to
be afeard of. I'm a respectable married man, and old enough to be your
father. So put up your face--come now!--and tell me all about it.'
After a bit she lifted her face, very pitiful, and says she in a small
voice, 'I was afeard you had been drinkin', sir.' 'A little--a very
little,' answers my father; 'we'll say no more about it.' 'And I was
afeard,' says she, 'you would want to carry me home and marry me
against my will!' 'Lord,' says my father, 'trust a woman for putting
notions into a man's head. No, no, my dear; I can get all the
temperance talk I want without committin' bigamy for it.' 'An' you
couldn' marry me,' says the merrymaid, with a kind o' sob, 'because I'm
married already, an' the mother of two as pretty children as ever you
wished to see. I can hear 'em callin' for me,' she said, 'down there,
beyond the bar,' and she went on to tell him (but the tale was all
mixed up with sobbin') how she and the children had been swimmin' along
shore that afternoon, and liftin' their heads above water to glimpse
the sea-pinks and catch a smell of the thyme on the cliffs; and how she
had left 'em to play while she swam into the cave to sit for a while
and comb out her pretty hair. But the tide had run back while she was
busy, and she couldn't crawl back to the sea over the bar, because on
dry sand all her strength left her. 'And if I wait for the flood,' she
said, 'my husband'll half murder me; for he's jealous as fire.'

"My father listened, and, sure enough, he seemed to hear the children's
voices callin' to her out beyond the water's edge. With that, bein'
always a tender-hearted man, he knelt down and lifted her out o' the
pool. Now, if he'd had more sense at the time he'd have struck a
bargain with her; for the merrymaids, they say, can tell where gold is
hidden, and charm a man against sickness, and make all his wishes come
true. But in the tenderness of his heart he thought 'pon none o' these
things. He just let her put her arms round his neck, and lifted her
over the sands, and waded out with her, till he stood three feet deep
in water in his sea-boots; and then she gave him a kiss and slid away
with a flip of her tail. 'Twas only when he stood staring that it
crossed his mind what a fool he had been and what a chance he had
missed. Then he remembered that she had dropped her comb by the edge of
the pool--he had heard it fall when he lifted her, and back he went to
search for it: for the sayin' is that with a merrymaid's comb you can
comb out your hair in handfuls of guineas. But all he found was a
broken bit of shark's jaw, and though he combed for half-an-hour and
wished for all kind o' good luck, not a farthin' could he fetch out."

"Is that all?" asked Matthew Henry, as Jan arose from the cart-shaft,
dusting the crumbs of bread from his breeches.

"It's enough, I should think," said Linnet, the sceptical, "seeing that
it's nothing but a story from beginning to end."

Vashti looked from one child to the other with a twinkle of fun. "We
will pay Piper's Hole a visit one of these days," she promised, "and
perhaps Linnet will see a real mermaid and be convinced."

"I don't care for mermaids," announced Matthew Henry. "It's the cave I
want to explore, to see if it really does lead through to the mainland.
And I won't be afraid, like Jan here, and run away from a little
noise."

"You wait till you get there before you boast," advised Linnet.

But Vashti's eyes, resting on the boy, grew tender of a sudden. "The
way through to the mainland?" she said, musingly. "Matthew Henry is
right. It all depends on the heart that tries it; but there is nothing
can do him harm if he keeps up his courage; and the end of the road is
worth all the journey, for a man."

"Why, Aunt Vazzy, you talk as if you had been there!" cried Annet.

"And so I have, my dear; there and back again."

The three children stared at her. "Aunt Vazzy is joking," said Linnet,
severely. Annet was not too sure, and her brow puckered with a frown as
she searched for the meaning beneath her aunt's words. But Matthew
Henry believed them literally.

"Then," he exclaimed joyfully, "it's all nonsense about Farmer Santo's
uncle's sheep-dog. For Aunt Vazzy has beautiful hair!"


CHAPTER XXIII

THE LORD PROPRIETOR HEARS A SIREN SING


    _Sir,--In answer to your letter of the 19th ultimo, I am
    directed by the Secretary of State for War to say that a
    Commission, the composition of which is not finally determined,
    will shortly be visiting the Islands, with a view to reporting
    on the adaptability of their existing military works for Coast
    Defence. Notice of the probable date of this visit shall be sent
    to you, and the Commissioners will doubtless be glad to avail
    themselves of any information you may be good enough to put at
    their disposal. At the same time, there will be given an
    opportunity of inquiring into the allegations contained in your
    letter. The Commission will be presided over by Maj.-General Sir
    Ommaney Ward, K.C.B., R.E., H.M. Director of Fortifications.--I
    am, sir,_

    _Your obedient servant,_

    J. FLEETWOOD CUNNINGHAM.

Thrice a week--on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays--the steamer
arrived at St. Lide's Quay, bringing the mainland mail, and the Lord
Proprietor's post-bag usually reached him soon after luncheon. It
carried, as a rule, a bulky correspondence, and since the steamer
weighed anchor early next morning, the Lord Proprietor set aside the
early part of these three afternoons to letter-writing.

The passage had been smooth to-day, and the bag had been delivered to
him and opened as he took his solitary meal. Also the mail for the
great house was a light one, and out of it the Lord Proprietor,
catching sight of the official stamp on the envelope, had at once
selected the letter quoted above. He perused it, and re-perused it, to
the neglect of the rest of his correspondence, tilting it against a
bowl of Michaelmas daisies in front of his plate.

It was satisfactory, he decided--that is to say, on the whole, and so
far as it went. He foresaw that short shrift would be given to those
idlers on Garrison Hill. On the other hand, he frowned at the
prospect--call it the chance, rather--of seeing that establishment
replaced by one more efficient. To be sure, if the necessities of Coast
Defence demanded it.... Still, for his part, he would have preferred to
be let alone. The Islands, with their many outlying reefs and poor
anchorage could never afford room to such battleships as were built in
these days; and to erect new fortifications to cover a roadstead that
would seldom if ever be used appeared the plainest waste of public
money.... He really thought that the War Office might have consulted
him before coolly proposing to plant a new garrison above St. Lide's.
He was not even sure they had a right, without his consent.... He would
confer with Mr. Pope on this point. At the very least, it would have
been courteous to start by asking his opinion; for, after all, he owned
the Islands. He was responsible, too, for the general good conduct of
the population; good conduct which the advent of a body of soldiery
would certainly affect--nay, might entirely upset.

Nevertheless, he reflected that--however the Commissioners might decide
(and he would take care to press his opinion energetically)--his letter
to the Secretary of State for War had at least done no harm. The
Commissioner's visit had obviously been projected before the receipt of
it, and at the worst it would enable him to call quits with Vigoureux.

He reflected further that these roving Commissions to report were often
no index of Government policy, but were simply appointed to shelve,
while professing to consider a question which the Government found
awkward.

So, luncheon over, he sat down and wrote a letter thanking the
Secretary for his communication, and very politely offering to do all
in his power to make the Commissioners' visit "to these
out-of-the-world Islands" a pleasant one.

Having copied the letter and read it over with no little approval, the
Lord Proprietor dealt briefly with the rest of his correspondence;
consulted his pocket-diary, looked at his watch, and, finding that he
had an hour to spare before granting an interview to Eli Tregarthen,
stepped out upon the terrace, where Abe Jenkins was cutting back the
geraniums that had well-nigh ceased to flower.

"But is it necessary?" asked the Lord Proprietor. "Here, in the very
mouth of the Gulf Stream ... and last winter we escaped with nothing
worse than two degrees of frost."

"Last winter and this winter be two different things, sir," protested
Abe, gently but firmly. "Last winter, sir--as you may have taken
notice--we had next to no berries 'pon the holly; and no seals, nor yet
no mermaids."

"Seals? Mermaids?" Sir Cæsar echoed.

"Which I've always heard it said, sir," Old Abe went on, with the air
of one carefully, even elaborately, deferring to superior ignorance,
"as how than seals you can have no surer sign of hard weather. Of
mermaids I says nothing, except that with such-like creatures about you
may count 'pon something out of the common."

"Since," said the Lord Proprietor, "there are no such things as
mermaids, we will confine ourselves to seals.... I had no idea that
seals--er--frequented our shores."

"No more they don't, unless summat extr'ord'ny has taken the weather.
But I've heard tell of a season when, for weeks together, you could
count up two or three score together baskin' on the beaches to the
north of the Island here. Sam Leggo can tell you all about it"--Abe
jerked a thumb in the direction of North Inniscaw Farm. "He and his
father used to hunt them, one time, along with Phil Cara of St. Hugh's.
You know where the old adit goes into the cliff under Carn Coppa? Well,
they tell me that if you follow the adit for fifty yards you come to a
kind of pit that breaks straight down and through the roof of a
cave--Ogo Vean, they call it--to the west of Piper's Hole, and this
cave fairly swarmed with seals. The three men would lower themselves by
rope-ladders--I reckon old Leggo had learnt the trick of it in by-gone
days when the Free-traders used the adit--and get down upon a strip of
firm shingle at the inner end of the cave; and there Sam Leggo would
hold the lantern while his father and Phil Cara blazed away. They never
shot more than a brace at a time, because of the difficulty of getting
the bodies up the ladder, for they had to be gone before high-water,
and likewise there was always a danger that the seals might charge 'em
in a herd, bein' angered by the loss of their mates. In this way they
pretty well cleared out the cave--all but one great beauty that old
Leggo had sworn to take alive. For, instead of bein' yellow or
motley-brown like the rest, this fellow was white as milk all over,
besides bein' powerful as any other two. He seemed to know from the
first that the three men didn't mean to shoot him. The lanterns and the
firing never hurried him a bit, and he never threw himself into a rage
over the loss of his relations. He just kept out of reach, looking like
as if he despised the whole business, and refused to quit. He was
cautious, too; wouldn't trust the cave in weather when a boat could
follow him and block up the entrance. On fine nights he had a favourite
rock just outside Ogo Vean--you can see it from the top of the
cliff--and there he'd lie asleep and dare 'em; out of reach, but plain
enough to see, even in the dark, because of his white skin.

"Now, as you may have taken notice, sir, the tide runs out dry to this
rock on the inshore side; but seaward it goes down, even at low
springs, into more'n three fathoms of water, and my gentleman always
took his forty winks on the seaward slope. Half-a-dozen times did Phil
Cara, thinkin' to catch him----"

"I beg your pardon," interrupted Sir Cæsar, "'Cara,' did you say?"

"Yes, sir; Philip Cara, father to Eli Tregarthen's wife over to Saaron;
and likewise, o' course, to Eli Tregarthen's wife's sister, that is
lodging at Saaron Farm, having come home from service a while back."

"Eh? From service?" the Lord Proprietor echoed, with quickened
interest. "What sort of service?"

"Why, as to that, sir, I can't say that I can tell you for certain; but
it's somewheres on the mainland, and the young woman seems a very
respectable young woman. But whether she means to bide wi' the family
or has come to lodge while lookin' out for another place, I can't
certainly say--the Tregarthens bein' a close-tongued lot, as you know."

"A lady's-maid?" hazarded the Lord Proprietor.

"May be. Well, as I was tellin' you, half-a-dozen times did Phil Cara,
bidin' his time till the tide was low and the sand hard----"

"But it's impossible," said the Lord Proprietor, pursuing his own train
of thought.

Abe regarded his master rather in sorrow than in anger. "To be sure,
sir," said he, in a tone of delicate rebuke, "if you don't want to hear
my story----"

"Eh? Yes, certainly, my wits were wool-gathering, Abe, and I beg your
pardon. Let me see.... You were saying that Cara used to wait till the
tide was low----"

"Yes, sir. He'd creep along the sand, he and the two Leggos, and th'
old seal would lie there sleepin', innocent as a child, and let them
come close under the rock, and even climb it. But soon as ever they
made a pounce--c'lk!--he rolled off the slope and into deep water.
Regular as clockwork it happened; quiet and easy as a door on a greased
hinge; and every time it made the three look foolisher and foolisher.

"After half-a-dozen tries, Cara allowed that he couldn' go on bein'
mocked by a dumb animal; so he set his brain to work, and thought out a
new plan. The two Leggos were to take a boat and drop down wi' the tide
close in the shadow of the rock 'pon the seaward side, while Cara
himself crept, as usual, hands-an'-knees, across the beach. So they
planned, an' so they did; and sure enough when Cara made a pounce for
the seal, my gentleman rolled down the ledge and slap into the boat!
'Now you've got 'en!' yells Cara. 'Darn it all!' yells back old Leggo
from the scuffle, 'Seems more like he's got WE!' For that seal, sir,
fought like ten tom-cats; and before the Leggos got in a lucky stroke
and knocked him silly with a stretcher he'd ripped one leg off th' old
man's trousers and bitten the heel clean off Sam's right boot. They
took him home and skinned him, and sold the skin that same year to a
Dutch skipper for thirty shillin'. But Sam has told me more than twice
that he don't mean to tempt Providence again by catchin' any more
seals."

The Lord Proprietor looked at his watch. "I must get Leggo to show me
that adit this very afternoon. I've an appointment at three-thirty to
meet him and Tregarthen at the farm."

"Indeed, sir? Then you've brought Eli Tregarthen to his senses?--if I
may make so bold."

The Lord Proprietor flushed, remembering that Abe had witnessed the
interview in the walled garden. "I fancy the man has begun to see the
red light," he answered, carelessly. "At any rate, he has consented to
meet me and take a look over North Inniscaw."

"Well," said Abe, "you'll find him a good farmer; none better."

"And he'll find me a landlord, willing to let bygones be bygones. By
the way," added Sir Cæsar, yet more carelessly, "I am curious to know
if I met that sister-in-law of his the other day?--a decidedly handsome
woman, and strikingly well dressed. In fact, I should say she bought
her clothes in Paris."

Abe stared, as though his master had suddenly taken leave of his
senses.

"I never been to Paris," he said, slowly. "When I seen her last she was
nettin' sand-eels, with her legs bare to the knee."

                    *      *      *      *      *

Sir Cæsar walked indoors to fetch his hat and his gun. Though he rarely
used it, he invariably carried a gun under his arm in his walks about
the Islands. It helped his sense of being monarch of all he surveyed.

That sense was strong in him as he took the path which led across the
middle of the Island to North Inniscaw Farm. St. Lide's lay directly
behind him, to the south, and thus no Garrison Hill obtruded upon his
view to remind him of annoyances. The sea shone, the air was pure, the
whole seascape flashed white upon blue--white gulls wheeling aloft,
white breasts of puffins congregated on the smaller islets, white caps
of tiny waves where the breeze met the tide-race, on North Island the
white shaft of a lighthouse fronting the almost level sun. With a touch
of imagination the scene had become a prospect of the Cyclades, the
lighthouse a column to Aphrodite or the twin brothers of Helen. But the
Lord Proprietor was a Briton. He halted on the hill-side to inhale the
vigorous breeze, and his heart rejoiced that all he saw belonged to
him.

The path descended a stony hillside, crossed a marshy green hollow, and
mounted a second stony hill. Over the summit of it the low roofs of a
line of farm-buildings hove into sight. This was North Inniscaw; and
the Lord Proprietor, arriving punctually at three-thirty, found Eli
Tregarthen at the gate in converse with Sam Leggo, the hind in
temporary charge of the farm.

If Eli had begun to see reason, his face held out no promise of it. It
was dark and gloomy; a trifle weary, too, as though he kept this
appointment rather through politeness than with any care for its
outcome. He saluted the Lord Proprietor respectfully, but at once bent
his eyes to the ground.

"Good afternoon! Good afternoon, Tregarthen!" Sir Cæsar began, in his
heartiest voice, to show that he bore no malice. "I like punctuality,
and those who practise it. Punctuality, if I may say so, is not a
wide-spread virtue in these Islands. Shall we go round and take stock?"

"If it will give you satisfaction, sir," assented Eli.

Sir Cæsar led the way, pausing at every gate to discuss the soil, the
crop, the present price of oats, barley, roots of beef and mutton;
drainage and top-dressing; aspect and shelter; a hundred odds and ends.
He talked uncommonly good sense, too, as Eli confessed to himself. The
Lord Proprietor had taken up with agriculture late in life, but he
brought to it a trained and thoroughly practical mind. Once or twice he
submitted a point to Sam Leggo, who had worked all his life on this
very farm, and Eli was forced to admire the pertinence of his questions
and cross-questions.

He talked with great good humour, too, although Eli gave it small
encouragement. The shadow of leaving Saaron had hung over Eli's mind
for more than two months; heavy, oppressive, but until this morning
intangible as a cloud. Vashti had remarked that the days deadened him
while they should have been nerving him to action; and Vashti, this
very morning, had forced his eyes open by asking, in a business-like
way, if he had ever thought of emigrating to the mainland. Were it not
wiser, since the wrench must come, to make it complete?--to go where
regret would not be kept aching by the daily sight of Saaron? The
children would find better schools on the mainland, and it was high
time to be thinking of Matthew Henry, who deserved a better education
than the Islands could afford.

In arguing thus, Vashti was not entirely serious. She knew that Eli
would never cut himself loose from the Islands; but she hoped, by
forcing him to face the alternative, to shake him out of his torpor. In
this she had partly succeeded. For the first time the man opened his
eyes and saw hard facts--facts that in a few weeks' time he must
grapple with, since neither grieving nor grumbling would remove them.
But for the moment the discovery, instead of nerving him, inflamed his
wrath.

A strong man, finding himself helpless, suffers horribly. Especially he
suffers when, with a dim sense that in the last resort all power
depends on strength, he finds himself tripped up and laid on his back
by a man physically his inferior. Had the Lord Proprietor inherited the
Islands from a line of ancestors--had his tyranny rested on any feudal
tradition--Eli was Briton enough to have acquiesced or submitted. But
this whipper-snapper had bought the Islands: money--dirty money
alone--gave him power over men who were Islanders by birth and by long
generations of breeding. While the Lord Proprietor talked, Eli felt an
impulse almost uncontrollable to lay hands on him and wring his neck.

The three men had reached Coppa Parc, an enclosure of twelve acres
bounded along the north by the cliffs' edge, and deriving its name from
a mass of granite rock--Carn Coppa--that, rising in ledges from near
the middle of the field, ran northward until it broke away
precipitously, overhanging the sea. The slopes around the base of the
Carn showed here and there an outcrop of granite, but with pockets of
deep soil in which (or so the Lord Proprietor maintained) barley could
be grown at a profit. He appealed to Eli.

"Come, what does Mr. Tregarthen say to it? A piece of ground like
this--hey?--oughtn't to beat a man that has grown barley on Saaron?"

He said it intending no offence, but in a bluff, hearty way, which he
meant to be genial. After a second or two, Eli not answering, he turned
and saw to his amazement that the man was trembling from head to foot
with wrath.

"What right have you? What right----" Eli stammered fiercely, and came
to a full stop, clenching his fists.

The Lord Proprietor stared at him. "My good fellow, I hadn't the
smallest wish to hurt your feelings. What ails you? An innocent remark,
surely!"

"What ails me?" echoed Eli, and stopped again, panting. "Man, have done
with this, and let me go--else I'll not promise to keep my hands off
you!"

For a moment he stood threatening, his eyes--like the eyes of a dumb
animal at bay--travelling from the Lord Proprietor to Sam Leggo. The
blood ebbed from his face, and left it unnaturally white. But of a
sudden he appeared to collect himself; thrust both hands in his
pockets, and, turning his back, walked away resolutely down the slope.

"Well!" said Sam Leggo, after a pause. "Well!"

"The man has never been thwarted before," said the Lord Proprietor, as
they gazed after him together. "That's what comes of living alone in a
place like Saaron; and I'll take care his children don't learn the same
folly. Feels the curb, as you might say. Have you ever seen a horse
broken late in life?"

"You take it very quiet, sir, I must say," protested Sam, admiringly.
"So disrespectful as he was, too--and to the likes of you! Well! I've
known Eli Tregarthen forty year, and if any man had come and told
me----"

"The worst is, we have wasted an afternoon," said Sir Cæsar, easily.
"But since we are here, with half-an-hour to spare before sunset, what
do you say to showing me the adit?"

"The adit, sir?"

"There's an old adit hereabouts--eh?--that leads down to a cave....
Come, come, my good man, you don't deceive me by putting on that stupid
face! We don't allow smuggling on the Islands in these days, and I like
to know the secrets of my own property. The cave is called Ogo Vean, or
something like it; and if I must explain more precisely, it is where
you and your father used to go hunting seals."

"Yes, yes, to be sure," Sam admitted; "an adit there is, or used to be.
But," he went on more cheerfully, "you'll find it nothing to look at. I
han't set foot inside it for years, and I doubt but the entrance is
choked."

"Take me to it," said Sir Cæsar.

Sam, without further remonstrance, led the way. They scrambled out to
the edge of the Carn, and there, where the last great boulder thrust
itself forward over the sea, Sam scrambled off to the left, and lowered
himself down upon a turfy ledge. Warning his master to leave his gun
behind and beware of the slippery grass, he sidled out alongside the
jutting slab, and suddenly ducked under it. The Lord Proprietor,
following, crawled under the stone, and found himself staring into the
mouth of the adit--a dark hole less than four feet in height, and
overgrown with ivy. Sam had spoken the truth. The passage,
whithersoever it led, had been disused for years.

"Cur'ous old place!" said Sam, reflectively, plucking at the ivy. "I've
a mind to try the inside of it again, one of these days."

"I've a mind to explore it now," said the Lord Proprietor.

Sam stared at him. "You couldn't, sir; not without a lantern. You'd be
breakin' your neck, to a certainty."

"Then fetch a lantern. Look sharp, man! Run back to the farm and fetch
a lantern. I'll wait for you--no, not here: a few minutes on this ledge
would turn my head giddy--but on the Carn above."

Without further words, he worked his body around carefully, and led the
way back to the summit.

"You'd best hurry," he advised Sam, who showed no eagerness for the
job. "In another twenty minutes the dusk will be closing down fast."

Sam slouched off at a fair pace across the field. Sir Cæsar watched his
retreating figure until it reached the gate, and then, picking up his
gun, disposed himself to wait.

Seals? They ought to give good sport--better sport, he should imagine,
than deerstalking. A pity, too, to let it die out ... if seals still
frequented the Islands.... He must consult Sam about it, and pick up a
few wrinkles. He peered over the edge of the Carn, scanning the water,
a hundred feet below him, for the rock which Abe had described. He
could see no such rock. Maybe, though, it would be covered by the tide,
now close upon high-water.

Then he bethought him that the rock must lie a little to the west,
towards Piper's Hole--that is to say, in the next small indentation of
the shore. He strolled in that direction, following the cliff's edge,
still with eyes upon the sea.

Of a sudden he stopped and straightened himself up with a gasp.

What sound was that?... Surely a voice--a woman's voice--singing up to
him from the depth!

Was he awake or dreaming?... Beyond all doubt someone was singing, down
there: a mournful, wordless song. He was no judge of music, but it
seemed to him that, let alone the mystery of the singer, he had never
heard a voice so wonderful. It rose and fell with the surge of the
tide.

The Lord Proprietor laid down his gun. He had come to a shelving slope
that descended like a funnel or the half of a broken crater, narrowing
to a dark pit, in which the sea heaved gently, but with a sound as of a
monster sobbing; but still above this sound rose the voice of the
singer.

He flung himself on the verge beside his gun and craned forward....
Yes, there was the rock; yes, and there on the rock sat a figure--a
woman--and combed her long hair while she sang.


CHAPTER XXIV

LINNET SEES A MERMAID


Annet, Linnet, and Matthew Henry sat together in a niche of the cliff
to the west of Piper's Hole, and panted after their climb.

They had raced up the hill in the gathering twilight for this (their
Aunt Vazzy had assured them) was the time, if ever, to hear the
mermaids singing in Piper's Hole, and perhaps to catch a glimpse of
them; this, and the hour of moonrise--which for them would be out of
the question.

For some days they had been discussing the adventure--not, it scarcely
needs to be said, in their parents' hearing. But they had once or twice
consulted with Aunt Vazzy, who understood children, and had a sense
(denied to most grown-ups) of what was really interesting; and to-day,
at dinner-time, Aunt Vazzy had allowed that no time could well be more
propitious than this evening, when the hours of twilight and of low
water almost exactly coincided. But in private she warned Annet very
earnestly to look well after the two younger ones, and see to it that
they did not risk their necks--a caution seldom given to Island
children, who grow up sure-footed as young goats.

Annet had promised. The main difficulty would be to give the slip to
Jan, who usually pulled across from Saaron in good time to fetch them
home, and smoked a pipe by the shore while waiting for school to be
dismissed. It would take them a good forty minutes to reach Piper's
Hole and return. If they gave Jan the slip and delayed him so long, he
would undoubtedly lose his temper, and probably report them. After
discussing this, they decided to take Jan into the plot. "Maybe," said
Annet, "he'll come along, too. I almost think he will if we put it to
him all of a sudden, for he's mighty curious about mermaids; but if we
give him time to think it over he'll feel ashamed, and say it's all
children's whiddles, and back out--I know Jan. So we must wait till
school is over and then coax him to come."

Annet did not know that her father, having an appointment with the Lord
Proprietor at North Inniscaw Farm, designed himself to call at the
school on his way back, and row the children home. Had she guessed this
it would have prevented the adventure, which, in fact, it furthered;
for, coming out of school and hurrying down to the shore to catch Jan
and wheedle him, she found the boat moored there empty. Jan, no doubt,
had taken a stroll up to the Lord Proprietor's garden, to have a chat
with Old Abe. They had caught him napping; and now, if they kept him
waiting, he could not grumble.

So off the three children set for Piper's Hole; Annet and Linnet with
long strides, Matthew Henry trotting to keep up with them. Arrived at
the cliff's edge, they deployed with great caution--that no noise might
scare the mermaids from coming forth--and searched for a nook where,
themselves hidden, they could command a view of the cove at their feet.

Linnet, searching to the westward, found just such a spot; a rocky
ledge, well grassed, close under the topmost cornice of the cliff, and
quite easy of access. To be sure, a rock on their right cut off their
view of the cove's inmost recess, where the funnel-shaped slope broke
sheer over the mouth of the Hole. But the ledge looked full upon the
Mermaid's Rock and the heave of black water surging past it to
gurgitate between the narrowing walls of rock.

Even the matter-of-fact Linnet could not repress a shiver as, after
panting a while, she raised herself on one elbow and looked down into
the awesome pit. For not only was the water black, but the whole
shadowed base of the cliff wall; black as though stained by the inky
wave. Black, too, showed the hither side of the Mermaid's Rock against
a gray sea, from which the last tint of sunset had faded. Now and then,
between the sobbing of Piper's Hole, the children caught the murmur of
the tide race, half-a-mile off shore, slackening its note as it neared
the time of high-water and its turning point. Out there the sea was
agitated; within the line of the race, sharply defined on the gray, it
heaved and sank on an oily swell.

"My!" said Matthew Henry, gazing; and Annet turned on her sister and
said, "There, now!" The words may seem inadequate, but Linnet
understood them, and that they conveyed a question which she felt to be
a poser. How could she doubt the existence of mermaids in such a spot
as this? If a mermaid were to swim up to the surface under their very
eyes, would she be more wonderful than the actual scene--the black
rocks, the sobbing water?

"Folks," said Annet, incisively, "that laugh at stories about Piper's
Hole, ought to come and see the place for themselves."

"Yes," Matthew Henry agreed; "and after that they can begin to talk."

"I didn't laugh," protested Linnet, flung upon her defence. "Besides,"
she went on weakly, "I don't see why it must be mermaids. If anything
lives down there, why shouldn't it be a dragon---or a giant,
perhaps----"

"Linnet's improving," put in Matthew Henry, with fine sarcasm.

"Well, it sounds to me more like the noise a dragon would make," Linnet
persisted, finding as she went on that her argument was carrying her
through very creditably; "or a giant snoring, as they always do after
meals."

Annet scanned the black water pensively. "I've heard tell," she said,
"of great cuttles that sit and squat under the water; and sometimes,
when they are hungry, they fling up their suckers and pull you down off
the rocks and eat you."

Matthew Henry drew back from the brink, visibly daunted.

"Look here," he began, "I don't mind mermaids. Mermaids, so far as they
go----"

But here he came to a halt as a tinkling sound--the sound of a stringed
instrument, gently thrummed, rose from out of the abyss.

It fell on their ears in a pause of the surging water. It came from the
Mermaid's Rock, and thither all three children turned their eyes, to
see, over the crest of it, from its hidden seaward side, a woman's head
and shoulders emerge into view!

In the gathering dusk, even had she lifted her face to them, they could
not have discerned her features. But as she climbed into view her
loosened hair fell all about her; on the summit of the rock she turned
and seated herself fronting the sea; and while the three children drew
together, cowering, at her gaze, she began to sing.

And she sang marvellously. If her song had words, they were foreign
words; but whether articulate or not it was beautiful beyond all human
compass--or so at least it seemed to the children, whose experience
rested, to be sure, on the congregational efforts of Brefar Church.

It rose and sank upon the swell of the tide. It held such sweetness in
its mystery that, frightened though they were, the wonder of it drew
tears to their eyes. It seemed to open pathways into that world of
their desire, on the boundaries of which they were forever treading;
yet forever vainly, because they had not the passwords, and in their
ignorance could only guess that miracles lay beyond, sealed,
unimaginable.

The children huddled together, lost their fear in wonder, as the voice
of the mermaid, growing more and more confident, pierced new roads for
them--roads upon which the twilight closed at once; rays into a glory
they felt, and trembled to feel, but could not apprehend, because the
vision was of mere beauty, and music divorced from words is the last of
arts to convey form and meaning.

Yet though wholly indefinite, almost wholly meaningless, it spoke to
something to which the children felt all their blood thrilling,
responding. Listening, they forgot their fear altogether....

The singer laid down her instrument. The grey of the twilight ran over
her bare shoulders as, with a turn of the arm, she swept her tresses
back, and--still singing--drew out mirror and comb....

Capita. XIIII.

Tiëpo At that Herod the Tetrarcha heard the fame of IESVS: 2 dixo And
his servants, This is Ioan Baptista: There rešušcitado of the dead, and
virtues are in the Esso. 3 For Herod avia Ioan garments and avia
trapped it, and put in prison because of Herodias muger ^ his
brother Philippe. 4 For Ioan dezia him, you are not permitted to
have it. 5 And querialo kill, but fear of the aviation crowd because
we had to prophet. 6 day and celebrating the birth of Herod, the
daughter of Herodias dance in half, and pleased Herod. 7 oath and
promised to give all that pidiešše. 8 And she, her mother inštruyda
first, dixo Dame in here a dish the head of Ioan Baptista. 9 Then
the king was sad: but by the oath, and by that I was together at
the table, causes to be [him] Diesse: 10 And Ioan Embi cut the
throat of in jail. 11 Y trayda was his head on a plate and given
to the moça: And [it] to her mother this. 12 Then his disciples
came and took the body and enterraronlo: and went and gave the new
IESVS.

And listening to 13 [lo] IESVS apartóše from there on a ship to a desert
place: and when the companies [as] heard, šiguieronlo walk from the
cities, 14 and out IESVS, served [a] company grade, and LD deellos
mercy: and healed the sick who deellos avia. 15 And when the evening
of the day ^ llegaronše to the disciples diziendo.

The place is desert, and time is already past, Embi the companies
that are in villages, and buy for themselves to eat. Dixo 16 AND IESVS
them, have no need of yrše: daldes you eat, 17 And they dixeron ,
We have here but five loaves and two fish. dixo 18 And they,
Traedmelos here. 19 and sent to the companies lie on the yerva, and
on them five loaves and two fish ^, Alcanda Bendix eyes to heaven,
and starting breads gave [the] to the disciples and the disciples
of the companies. 20 And all ate and hartaronše: alçaron And what
about the pedaços, twelve ešportones full. 21 And those who ate
were about five thousand men: no mugeres and the mochachos.

IESVS became 22 and then to his disciples into the ship, and the
yr before the other party [the lake], now [the] off the companies.
and fired the 23 companies, rose in Mount paragraph, to pray.

And as the evening of the day, I was alone there. 24 And the ship
I was in the middle of the sea, racked by waves because the wind
was contrary. 25 But at the fourth candle of the night was IESVS
to them, walking on the sea. 26 And the disciples, seeing him walking
on the sea, turbaronše diziendo: [Any] Phantasm is scary and gave
bozes. 27 More IESVS then spoke to them diziendo: Aššeguraos: I am
not afraid ayays.

    "said Peter So 28 and dixo: Sir, if you are, send me come
    unto thee on the water. And dixo 29, Ven. And Pedro decendiëdo
    the ship, he walked on the water to come to IESVS.

    Watching over 30 wind, LD Fear: començadoše and sinking, gave bozes
diziendo Sir, Salvame. 31 Then IESVS eštendiendo hand, through deel,
and dizel, O [man] of little faith, because dudašte. 32 And as they
entered the ship, the wind rest. losque I was 33 then in the ship
came and adoraronlo, diziendo, Truly you are the Son of God. 34 And
coming the other hand, came into the land of Gennezaret. 35 And as
they knew the men of that place, Embi alderredor throughout the
land, and the truxeron to all patients. rogavanle only 36 AND
tocaššen the edge of his mantle: and all who played, were saved.
capita.

    XV.

    IESVS then reached Pharišeos of certain scribes and Ierušalem
diziendo: ^ 2 For your disciples trašpaššan the tradition of the
Elders?

Pory not wash their hands when they eat bread. 3 and responding
dixoles, did you also trašpaššays the commandment of God by your
tradition? 4 For God, diziendo, Honrra father and the mother. Item, Elque
maldixere the father or mother, dying of death. 5 But you dezis, Qualquer
tell a parent, Toda mia offrenda you build: honrrará and not his
father or his mother.

Aveys invalidated the Y 6 commandment of God by your tradition. 7 Hypocrite,
you either prophetizó Isaias diziendo, 8 This people of His mouth on
my lips and I honrra: but his is my coraçon lexos. 9 But in vain
honrran taught me docktrinas , commandments of men. 10 And calling
to whether companies, dixoles, Oyd and understand: 11 Not what goes
into the mouth a man: but what comes out of the mouth, they defile
the man. 12 Then comes his disciples dixeronle, You know that the
word is heard Pharišeos offended?

But the 13 responding, dixo, Every plant not planted ÿ ^ my heavenly
Father will dešarraygada. 14 Dexaldos: are blind guides of the blind:
and if the blind lead the blind, both fall into the pit ^. 15 And Peter
answering, dixole, Declaranos this parable. IESVS dixo 16 And, you also
still without understanding Soysa? entendeys not even 17, that everything
that enters the mouth goes to the stomach and is thrown into this
necessary? 18 but what comes out of the mouth, coraçon it out,
and they defile the man. 19 Because of the bad thoughts come out
coraçon: Deaths, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness,
malediciencias. 20 these things that defile a man to eat with your
hands by washing not a man.

IESVS of 21 and out there, would the parts of Tyro and Sidon. 22 And
a heaqui avia muger Chananea that left those terms diziendole clamav,
Lord, Son of David, have mercy on me, my daughter is badly tormented
of the devil. 23 But the word is not answered. Then comes his disciples
rogaronle diziendo, Embiala, which bozes after us. And the 24
responding dixo am not Embi but the lost sheep of the house of
Israel. 25 Then she came and adorólo diziendo Lord šocorreme. 26
And the response, dixo, is not okay to take the bread of the children,
and to miss the puppy. dixo 27 And she, yes sir, because the puppy
eat the crumbs that fall from their masters' table. 28 then responds
Iesus , dixo, O muger, great [is] thy faith: be done with you, as
you want.

And her daughter was healthy since that time. 29 And Iesus game from
there, came along the Sea of Galilee: and going into [a] mount sat there.
30 and came to the many companies that had it Coxos, blind, dumb
and Mancos , and many [patients] and echaronlos at the foot of
Iesus, and šanólos: 31 in such a manner and the companies they
marveled seeing the dumb speak, the Mancos healthy Coxos the walk,
the blind see and glorify the God of israel.

Iesus called 32 And his disciples dixo, have mercy on the company,
which already has to endure three days with me, and do not have
to eat: Embi and fasting, I do not want to, because not stop along
the way. 33 Then the disciples dizen him, Where [we] we tãtos bread
in the desert fed such large company?

34 And Iesus them Dize, Quanta teneys bread? And they dixeron, Seven,
and a few of pecezillos. 35 and sent the companies that recoštaššen
ground. 36 And taking the seven loaves and the fishes, thanks
haziendo, left, and gave to his disciples and the disciples of the
company. 37 And all ate and hartaronše: ^ and what about alçaron,
pedaços seven ešpuertas full. 38 And they were eating avian lošque,
four thousand men, without mugeres and children. 39 Then the companies
off, jumped on a ship and wine in terms of Magdala.

Captain. XVI. And reaching the Pharišeos and Sadduceos, enticing,
pedianle they moštrašše signal from the sky. 2 But the response, dixoles,
When is the afternoon of the day, dezis, Sereno, because the sky
has Arreboles. 3 and the morning storm today because the sky is
sad Arreboles.

Hypocrite that šabeys Hazer difference in the face of heaven, and the
signs of the times not podeys?

4 generacion adulterine demand and poor signal: no more signal will be
given, but the signal Ionas prophet. And dexandolos be. Viniëdo his
disciples and 5 of the other party [the lake], avianše forgot to take
bread.

Dixo 6 And Iesus them, Take heed, and keep [you] of yeast Pharišeos lod
and models Sadduceos. 7 Y penšavan them within itself, diziendo, ^ do
not take bread. 8 Iesus and understanding, dixoles, Que pëšays within
you, men of little faith, not bread tomaštes? entendeys Not even 9
or OS of the five loaves acordays [between ] five thousand [men]
and ešportones quanto tomaštes?

10 Neither the seven loaves of [between] four thousand, and Quantas
ešpuertas tomaštes? 11 How?

No entendeys not you dixe for bread, that [we] guardaššedes of yeast
and the Pharišeos of Sadduceos. 12 Then they understood that they said
that aviation guardaššen yeast bread, but of the Pharišeos and docktrina
of Sadduceos. 13 And Iesus came into the parts of Caesarea Philippo,
asked his disciples, diziendo Who dizen men who is the Son of man?

14 And they dixeron about, Ioan the Baptist: and others, Elias: and
others, Ieremia, or any of the prophets. dizel 15, and you dezis
who I am?

16 And Simon Peter answering, dixo, You are the Christ, the Son of God
Biviente. 17 then responds Iesus, dixole, Simon son of biëaventurado're
Ionas because you showed no flesh and blood: but my Father in heaven
18.

But I also tell you that you are Peter and on this rock I will build
my Church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 19
and you give the keys of the Kingdom of heaven. that any link what on
earth will be bound in heaven: and all that dešatáres on earth
will be unleashed in the skies. 20 Then he sent his disciples that
anyone dixeššen that Iesus was the Christ. 21 Since that time Iesus
began, to explain to his disciples, who Convenia yr à Ierušalem,
and suffer many of the Elders, and the chief priests and teachers
of the law: and be killed, and the third day rešušcitar. 22 And
Peter, taking à part començolo à reprehender, diziendo, Lord, have
compassion on you in any way this will happen. 23 Then the bolviendoše,
^ dixo Peter, Take the front of my opponent, you're # eštorvo me
because I do not understand what [ is] of God, but what [is] of
men. 24 Then Iesus dixo to his disciples, If any man will come after
me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.
qualquer 25 Because we wanted save his life will lose it: and
qualquer who loses his life because of me, shall find. 26 Because
that takes a man to grãgeáre whole world and lose his own soul?

O, which will reward the man for his soul? 27 For the Son of man
coming in His Father's glory with his angels: and then He will
reward each according to his works. 28 Decierto I say to you that
some of the ay ÿ is here, and not taste death aya to and seen the
Son of man in His Kingdom viniëdo. capita.

XVII.

Šeys And after days Iesus takes Peter, and Iacob, Ioan and his brother,
Get him out and partly to a high mountain, 2 AND trãsfiguróše front
deellos: and his face resplendent as the sun: and his clothes were as
white light. heaqui AND 3 Moyses and Elias appeared to them
talking to. 4 And Peter answering, dixo à Iesus, Lord, It is us to
stay here if you want, we are three huts, one for you, and Moyses another,
and another for Elias. 5 while still speaking, heaqui a nuve light [that]
covered: Boz and heaqui one of which nuve dixo, This is My beloved
Son, IN VOLUME QVAL Content: FOR OYD. 6 And hearing [this] the disciples
fell on their faces, and greatly feared. 7 Then Iesus coming,
tocols, and dixo, Levanta os, and not temays. Alcanda 8 And [they] their
eyes, no one saw, but just Iesus. 9 And decendieron Mount, mandola
Iesus, diziendo, No digays anyone's vision, haštaque the Son of man
rešušcite of the dead. 10 Then his disciples asked him diziendo,
That as the Scribes dizen the need Elias to come first?

11 and responding Iesus, dixoles, A Elias Vedrà the truth first,
and all things reštituyrà. 12 But ye say, that Elias and wine, and
knew him not: before hizieron in everything we wanted.

ANSI also the Son of man suffer deellos. Lod 13 Disciples understood then
that the dezia Ioan Baptista. 14 And they came to the company, came
to the knees of a man hincandošele, 15 AND diziendo, Lord,
have mercy on my son and is Lunatico and suffers malamëte: Pory many
times falls into the fire, and many in the water, and 16 submitted to
helo your disciples, and they have not been able to heal. 17 Iesus and
responding, dixo: O unfaithful and perverse generation, even when you
have to be co? So when you have to šuššrir? Traedmelo here. 18 And
Iesus reprehendiólo, and left the devil deel: mucus and from
that hour was healthy. Then comes the 19 disciples of Iesus à part
dixeron, because we could not cast out? 20 And Iesus them dixo For
your infidelity: Pory decierto tell you that if tuvierdes faith as a
mustard seed direys to this mountain, Passat ACULLICO here: and paššaršehá,
and nothing will be impossible. Linage 21 But this [demon] does not
come out but by prayer and Fasting: 22 And they are in Galilee, dixoles
Iesus, The Son of Man will be delivered into the hands of men. matarlohan
and 23: but the third day rešušcitará ^. And [they] is saddened greatly.
24 and how they came to Capernaum, where Peter came to charge the two
dragma and dixeron, your leader does not pay the two dragma? 25 And
[the] Dize, yes, and entered the at home, Iesus diziendo before you
speak, How about Simon? The kings of the earth who paid taxes, or the
census? For his sons, or the strange? Peter Dize 26, Of the strange.
Dizel ^ [then] Iesus, then French are the children? 27 But because the
offender did not go to sea and miss the hook, and the first that comes
Pece, take, open your mouth and find a eštatero gives Selo and
I for you. Capita. XVIII. Llegaronše At that time the disciples of Iesus,
diziendo, who is very big in the Kingdom of heaven? 2 And Iesus
calling a child, pušolo in deellos: 3 dixo And, I say unto you, but
bolvierdes, fuerdes and, like children, not entrareys in the Kingdom
of Heaven 4. Anšique qualquer abaxáre that as this child, this is the
grade at the very Kingdom of Heaven. qualquer 5 And to one who
receives this child in my name , I receive. 6 And qualquer offendiere
that one of these little ones who believe in me, it was better that
he was hanging from the neck of a stone mill donkey, and was
swamped in the depths of the sea. 7 Ay the world by the scandal:
it is necessary that scandals come: but the man and from the qual
is the scandal. Portanto 8 If your hand or your foot will be the occasion
or fall, cut and casts [the] you better coxo you are entering, or
handed to life than having two hands or two feet to be cast eternal
fire. 9 And if your eye is your opportunity to fall, and casts Get him
out [what] you: that is you better come with a eye to life, than
having two eyes to be cast quemadero fire. tengays not look 10 in
any of these little kids: because [I] tell you that their angels in
heaven always seen the face of my Father in heaven. 11 For the Son of
man is come to save what is lost avia. 12 What is it? Tuviešše If any
man a hundred sheep, and perdiešše a deellas not yria through the
mountains, dexadas the ninety and nine, to find that lost avri? 13 And
if aconteciešše succeed, Verily I say unto you, that most of that
is, that of the ninety and nine that are not lost, Ansi 14 is not
the will of your Father which is in heaven, to lose one of these
little ones.

Portanto 15 If your brother peccáre, in turn, and go redarguyelo between
you and the only If you hear, you have won your brother. 16 But
if you do not hear, take with you one or even two paraque in the
mouth of two or three witnesses consists of the whole thing. 17 And
but to hear them say [it] the congregation: And if you do not hear
the congregation, by an ethnic tenlo and a publican. 18 Verily I
say unto you that every ligardes what on earth shall be bound in
heaven: and all dešatardes what on earth will be unleashed in heaven.
19 Item tell you that if two of you agrees to the land, any thing
you ask, šerleshá by my Father and it is in heaven. 20 For where
two or three are gathered together in my name, there am in deellos
half. 21 Then Peter arrive there, dixo Lord Quantas vezes forgive
my brother against my peccáre?

Up to seven times? Dize 22 Iesus him, I say not until seven, but even
unto seventy times seven. 23 loqual the Kingdom of heaven is like
a human king, who wanted Hazer accounts with his servants. 24
accounts and began to Hazer , introduced a fuel Devia you ten
thousand talents. 25 more to this, you could not pay, he sold his
Lord, him and his sons and muger, with what was, and pay. 26 So
that servant proštrado adoravalo, diziendo Lord, stop the anger in
me, and all you pay. 27 The Lord moved to mercy of that servant
šoltólo and perdonóle debt, 28 and leaving one servant, one of his
colleagues found that one hundred Devia money through well deel
ahogavalo, diziendo, pay what DEVES. 29 Then his partner, proštrandoše
at his feet, rogavale diziendo, Stop the anger for me, and all you
pay. 30 But he refused, but was, and echólo in jail until pagašše
debt. 31 And seeing what their peers paššava entrištecieronše much,
and coming to his Lord said everything avia pass. 32 Then llamãdolo
his master, dizel, Mal servant, all that debt forgiveness te `me
Pory rogašte: 33 ^ Do not Convenia Also, you have mercy on your
partner, as well as I had mercy on you?

34 So his Lord angry, entrególo the torturers until pagašše everything
you Devia. 35 ANSI also will be with you my Heavenly Father, If not
perdonardes your coraçones each of your brothers their offense. capita.
XIX.
The
jolly-boat lay beached on a bank of fine shingle left by the receding
tide at the entrance of the cave, and beside it stood Mr. Rogers
shouting orders.

He hailed the newcomers as soon as he caught sight of them. Leggo and
his two men had found Sir Cæsar's gun, and recovered it from the bushes
overhanging the cave. But of Sir Cæsar himself no trace could be found.
It was clear to his mind that the body had rolled down the cliff into
deep water, and had been carried out to sea. His fellows up yonder had
examined every foot of the descent, and were risking their necks to no
purpose. He would give them another ten minutes to make a clean job of
the search, and would then call them off and seek along shore to the
westward.

Had the cave itself been searched? This was the Commandant's first
question as he stepped out upon the shingle.

Yes; they had begun by searching the cave. They had followed it for
fifty yards, and come to a ridge of rock, heaped with ore-weed, beyond
which (it was certain) no ordinary tide ever penetrated. The floor of
the cave shelved pretty steeply up to this ridge, and beyond it lay a
pool of fresh water, about twenty yards long. It was impossible that a
human body could have been swept over the ridge into this pool.
Nevertheless they had explored it. But would the Commandant care to
satisfy himself?

Mr. Rogers, without waiting for an answer, picked up a lantern and led
the way under the great arch. The Commandant followed, his feet at
every step sinking ankle-deep in the fine shingle. He found himself in
a passage nine or ten feet wide, the walls of which rose about twenty
feet above him, and vaulted themselves in darkness. At first this
passage appeared to him to end, some fifteen paces from the entrance,
in a barrier of solid rock, but Mr. Rogers, stepping forward with the
lantern, revealed a low archway to the left and a second passage,
partially choked with ore-weed. Through this they squeezed themselves,
crouching and stooping their heads--for the roof in places was less
than five feet high--and after a couple of zig-zags drew breath at the
entrance of the second chamber, at least as lofty as the first and a
full twenty feet wide. Across the entrance the floor sloped up to the
rocky ridge, of which Mr. Rogers had spoken; and beyond the ridge lay
the pool.

"Taste it," said Mr. Rogers, and the Commandant, kneeling by the edge
of the pool, scooped up a palmful of water to his lips. It was fresh
water, undoubtedly; very cold, and not in the least brackish.

"Look down," said Mr. Rogers, holding his lantern so that the
Commandant could peer into the depths. "You can see every stone at the
bottom, and my men have searched it all." He lifted the light above his
head and gazed into the mysterious darkness beyond the pool. "I must
explore this place to the end, one of these days. The chief boatman
waded through, and reported yet another passage beyond; but of course I
wouldn't let my men waste time in exploring it. What a place for seals,
hey?"

"Seals?" queried the Commandant.

"Leggo gave me a sort of description of the place on our way here. He
tells me that this cave and the next are a favourite haunt of the seals
when they visit the Islands. In fact, he used to hunt them here with
his father. But of late years, for some reason, they have given the
Islands the go-by."

"You think it possible," suggested the Commandant, "Sir Cæsar may have
seen one, and taken a shot at it?"

"That's not likely; and anyway it doesn't help us. It won't account for
his gun being found in the bushes, half-way down the cliff, nor for his
disappearing. Among a deal that's mysterious, this much is clear: Leggo
left him on the cliff above us; within twenty minutes Sir Cæsar's gun
went off, whether fired by himself or by someone else; and whether
wounded or not, he slid down the cliff and over the ledge above the
cave. His body is not in the cave; therefore, presumably, it was sucked
out to sea by the time, and presumably has been carried somewhere to
the westward. Shall we turn back?"

The Commandant nodded. "You will have plenty of folk to help your
search," said he, "to judge from the number of boats we passed on our
way. By spreading your forces, in less than two hours you can have the
whole shore examined, from here to the west of Brefar. By the way, who
has possession of Sir Cæsar's gun?"

"It was passed up to Sam Leggo, on the cliff. But if you wish to take
charge of it----"

"It will probably be wanted for evidence."

"Come, then." Mr. Rogers led the way back to the entrance, and called
up an order to have the gun lowered by a shore-line; which was done,
the coast guardsmen on the cliffs fending the line clear of the bushes,
and so passing it from one to another until it dangled over the ledge
within grasp. The Commandant, as the taller, reached up for the gun,
took it, and examined it by the light of the lantern which Mr. Rogers
held for him.

The gun was undoubtedly the Lord Proprietor's; a breechloader of
curiously fine workmanship, bearing the name of a famous St. James'
Street maker. Of the hammers, one was down, the other at half-cock;
and, pulling open the breech, the Commandant drew forth two cartridges,
the one empty, the other unused. He pocketed these and examined the
barrels. Clearly, one shot--and one only--had been fired since the gun
was last cleaned.

He invited Mr. Rogers to verify these simple observations; and then,
turning the gun over, was aware of a trace of earth on the
trigger-guard and another on the point of the butt. These were easily
accounted for. The weapon, no doubt, had slid for some distance down
the cliff--probably from the very top--before lodging in the bushes
where Leggo had found it.

Half an hour's exploration of the cave, the cove, the cliff-face, had
yielded no further clue. Mr. Rogers drew off his men, and, embarking
them, started to search the shore to the westward.

By this time some thirty boats had gathered, and through the long
night, in every creek and cranny of the shore, from the extreme east of
Inniscaw to the extreme west of Brefar, the search went on. The wind,
chopping to the north-west, rose to a stiff breeze, and not only blew
bitterly cold, with squalls of rain and sleet, but raised a sea that
made it dangerous to explore the rocks closely. Nevertheless, not a
single boat put back, and not a few took incredible risks.

Day broke--a dull smurr of gray in an interval between two sleet-laden
squalls. In the cheerless light of it the Commandant, who, albeit numb
with cold, had had not yet found time to feel fatigue, caught sight of
Dr. Bonaday's face, and was smitten with sudden compunction. The old
Doctor had sat through six distressful hours like the stoic he was; but
his face showed like that of a corpse, and the usually plump and florid
cheeks of Mr. Pope hung flaccid, blue with the pinch of the cold and
yellow for lack of sleep. The Commandant spoke to the coxswain, and,
running up the gig alongside the jolly-boat, suggested to the
indomitable Mr. Rogers that the men were almost dead-beat, to which,
indeed, the faces of all bore witness in the broadening daylight.

"We must not exhaust ourselves utterly," suggested Mr. Pope. "It is
already day, and the Council of Twelve ought to meet before noon."

"Indeed? Why?" asked the Commandant, absently.

"Why, to advertise the Lord Proprietor's disappearance, with a printed
description of him!"

"Is that necessary? Surely by this time everyone in the Islands has
heard the news; and, as for describing him----"

"It is the proper course to pursue," insisted Mr. Pope, who was
something of a formalist; "in such--er--crises one should proceed
regularly. Doubtless the Council, when called, will proclaim a reward."

"For what?" asked Doctor Bonaday.

Mr. Pope turned on him impatiently; but the Doctor's eyes, like the
simpleton's in Scripture, were fixed on the ends of the earth. "Why,
for the discovery of the body," said Mr. Pope.

"You might offer twenty rewards," said the Commandant. "You cannot make
men work harder than they have worked to-night. Still, if you desire to
summon the Council----"

"I am suggesting that you should do so."

"But I am no longer a member."

"On the contrary, as Governor, you are now its President."

The Commandant reflected for a moment. "True," he murmured, "I keep
forgetting." Pulling himself together, with a shake of the shoulders,
he turned again to Mr. Rogers.

"Mr. Rogers," said he, "you know better than I of how much fatigue your
men are capable. For my part, I am returning to summon the Council of
the Islands to meet me in the Court House at twelve o'clock noon, to
summon volunteers and organize a general search. Your presence and
advice will be of the greatest service to us; and as I see some fresh
boats coming up the Sound, I submit that you leave them your
instructions and draw off your tired crews to take what rest they need"

Mr. Rogers looked up sharply, surprised by the new ring of authority in
the Commandant's voice. "Very well, sir," he answered, after a pause.
"I shall be happy to attend the Council and concert measures with you.
It occurs to me that the body may just possibly have been carried
towards North Island on a back eddy, and with your leave I will tell
the new-coming boats to seek in that direction."

"I thank you," said the Commandant, and at once gave the word to his
own crew to pull for home. "And on our way," he added, "you shall land
me for ten minutes at the East Porth, under Saaron Farm."

                    *      *      *      *      *

At the East Porth, where they found Eli Tregarthen's boat at her
moorings off the grass-grown landing-quay, the Commandant stepped
ashore. Mr. Pope offered to accompany him, but he declined, and went up
the hill alone.

At the yard-gate he caught sight of Jan Nanjulian, faring forth with
his pails to milk the cows; and, hailing him, demanded where he might
find the farmer. Jan directed him to a line of furze-stacks at the back
of the byres, and, turning the corner of these, he came face to face
with Eli Tregarthen, who had loaded himself with a couple of faggots
for the kitchen fire.

"Good morning!" said the Commandant.

"Ah? Good morning to you, sir," answered Tregarthen, clearly surprised,
but showing no sign of guilt or confusion.

"You have heard the news?"

"No, sir."

"The Lord Proprietor is missing."

"Missing?" Tregarthen set down his faggots and stared at the
Commandant.

"He has been missing since yesterday at dusk. I understand that you
were in his company shortly before then, on Carn Coppa?"

"That is so, sir. I left him and Sam Leggo standing together there at
the top of the field."

"A few minutes later he sent Leggo to the farmhouse to fetch a lantern.
Leggo declares that on his way back he heard a gun fired."

Tregarthen nodded. "That's right. I heard the shot, too, and reckoned
that the man had let fly at a rabbit. He carried a gun."

"You don't speak too respectfully of the Lord Proprietor, my friend."

"I speak as I think," answered Tregarthen, his brow darkening. "He was
no friend to me or mine."

"I advise you very strongly to keep that sort of talk to yourself, at
any rate for the present. To begin with, Sir Cæsar is missing, and we
have grave fear he will not be found again alive: so that it is not
seemly. But, further, I must caution you that you parted from him using
threats, and your threats have been reported."

"Turn me out of Saaron, he would--" began Tregarthen, but checked
himself at the moment when passion seemed on the point of
over-mastering him. "Well, sir, I didn't shoot him, if that's what they
are telling," he added, quietly.

"I should be sorry, indeed, to suspect any such thing. But let me tell
you the rest. Hearing the shot, Leggo made good speed back to Carn
Coppa. His master had disappeared; but away to the left, near the edge
of the cliffs, he saw three children running down the hill, and he
declares that those children were yours."

Tregarthen put up a hand and rubbed the side of his head.

"_My_ children?" he repeated. "I can't make this out at all, sir. What
could my children be doing anywhere near Carn Coppa?"

"You had best ask them."

"No," said Tregarthen, picking up his faggots, "I never brought them up
to be afraid of the truth. Come with me to the house, sir, and they
shall tell what they know."

He led the way, and the Commandant followed him indoors to the kitchen,
where they found Ruth stooping over the great hearth, already busy with
the morning fire. Across the planching overhead sounded the patter of
the children's bare feet.

In a couple of minutes they came running down together, laughing on
their way, and the Commandant had to wonder again--as he had wondered
before, on the afternoon when he had sailed them home from Merryman's
Head--at their beautiful manners. After the tale of a thousand
and five islands that make up the Philippine archipelago, is that of
"hundreds of races that populate the islands Babylonian confusion,"
says an author who wrote on geographic lyrical this country.

By default the rocks, cliffs, islets insignificant without vejetación
many others with only a few species of birds and insects as fauna,
and most without a man to dwell, are like islands are inhabited and
only at case of Philippines, a few from Luzon, the largest, to the
Cagayancillo, which is one of the most minute. This is the case with the
famous' races', a name whose meaning has been pompous confused applying
it to all political groups that differ from each other.

The most recent ethnographic studies have shown that the races that
inhabit our three islands, namely: Negritos , Indonesian and Malay.

But these breeds are not only several fusion but a variety of tribes
are characterized mainly by the language or, rather, to speak
Filipino dialects.

If we fundáramos on linguistic grounds to name the different groups of
men, the number of calls _razas filipinas_, to be quite grown up yet
not come to the figure that today reaches Blumentritt and the teacher
had the patient work of together in a booklet in alphabetical order,
published in Spanish under the title "The races of the archipelago
filipino."

As a linguistic studies clarify the issues anthropological powerfully,
I thought it would make a useful information for making the etymology
of the names now apply to the different tribes, with the names of races,
peoples, Philippines.

The political divisions of the islands almost always respond to
different divisions based on language, so that, by beginning to take
charge of the names that characterize the provinces when they apply
to groups that speak the same language, found on the island of Luzon
as follows: Tagalog, Pampanga, Bicol, Pangasinan, Sambál, Ilocano,
or Ibanag Cagayan. Then we see that within each of these provinces,
there are different tribes with many different language that lead,
for this reason or another, unknown, a different name. Bisayas applies
to three dialects spoken in Cebu, Iloilo and Negros: Calami or whose
group name is also a linguist and get to see that the Mindanao
territorrial division is no longer of any sort in Luzon.

Many tribes are named, a geographical name: another reason you will
find a call number, or local custom, or relationship with other
neighboring tribes.

Sometimes the names are simply applied to the local people, sometimes
the name does not appear so clear and to discover your etymology
must first be made to discover the root of break this down as we
will see.

"Ma'am," said he, in a shaking voice, "is your sister in the house?"

With his question, it seemed that in turn he had passed on his pallor
to Ruth, who, however, drew herself up and answered him with spirit.
"Sir," said Ruth Tregarthen, "you are asking too much. Must we be
accountable to you for my sister's doings?"

"For God's sake," cried the Commandant, "let us waste no time in
misunderstandings! Can you not see that your children are telling only
the truth?--that she--your sister--was the mermaid? And if she did not
venture home last night----"

"She took her own boat," quavered poor Ruth. "She started yesterday
afternoon soon after the children had left for school--and she told me
not to worry if she came home late.... My sister, sir, has queer ways
of her own.... Maybe she heard the news on her way back, and has been
searching all night with the others."

The Commandant had fallen to pacing the room. "She was not among the
searchers," he said, impatiently. "And, moreover, she has not returned:
her boat is not at the landing-quay."

"A moment, sir!" interposed Tregarthen. "I see what you fear, and it is
terrible. But one thing is not plain to me at all. Vashti took her own
boat, we hear. Now, suppose that the shot wounded her, or worse, still
we have the boat to account for: and the boat, you say, is not to be
found."

"Was ever a more hopeless mystery!" cried the Commandant, flinging out
his hands.

But Eli Tregarthen turned to his wife, who had dropped into a chair by
the fire and lay back, gripping the arms of it.

"Courage, wife!" said he, laying a strong palm over one of her
trembling hands. "And you, sir, take my thanks; go you home, and leave
the search to me."


CHAPTER XXVII

ENTER THE COMMISSIONER


It was noon, and in the Court House all the Councillors rose as the
Commandant entered and took his seat.

In the fewest possible words he opened the business, and leaned back in
his chair of state, waiting for the talk to begin. He scarcely knew
what he had said, and yet he had spoken well. With his restored
authority had come back the old easy habit of it.

At such a moment the Councillors would not have allowed, even to
themselves, that they breathed more easily and fell to business almost
with a sigh of relief, under the presidency of their old chairman. Yet
so it was. The Lord Proprietor had been autocratic in council,
impatient of opinions that crossed his own, apt to treat discussion as
a tedious preliminary to enforcing his will.

After five years, then, the Councillors enjoyed, without confessing it,
a sense of liberty regained; and it was the more to the Commandant's
credit that in spite of it he kept a firm rein on the debate, cutting
short all prolixities of speculation, and briefly ruling Mr. Pope's
theory of foul play to be, for the present, out of order. They were
met, he reminded them, for two practical purposes; in the first place,
to organise a thorough search for the Lord Proprietor, and, secondly,
to determine, as briefly as possible, how the government of the Islands
should be continued and carried on during his absence. He would take
these two questions only.

Mr. Rogers attended, and was cross-examined at length. With a chart
before him, and with the help of Reuben Hicks, the St. Ann's pilot, he
traced and described the currents to the northward of Inniscaw, the
Chairman meanwhile, with pencil and paper, assigning the search-parties
to the various rocks and groups of islets in or around which it was
deemed possible for a floating body to be carried--so many boats to
North Island, so many to seek along Brefar to W. and S. W. of
Merryman's Head, so many to explore the difficult passage between the
Outer Dogs. A sheet of foolscap had been pinned on the outside of the
Court House door inviting volunteers; and while the Councillors
deliberated they could hear the murmur of the crowd surrounding the
notice and the scratching of pencils as one man after another painfully
wrote his name. At intervals--time being precious--Constable Ward would
step out, unpin the paper, replace it with a new one, and bring it
indoors to the Commandant who was thus enabled to form his crews with
despatch.

Yesterday was the hope of any harvest, and now thought anyone with a
few drops of it would be helpful. The wives and maids stood on the village
square, and they had drums and traditional dishes, in order, if it
is raining, and the village stream to fill, but as usual this year,
cleaning out their festive and solemn to be able to keep Pentecost.

But it was afternoon, and yet not a drop had fallen, the clouds
were not thin - but it was evening, and not a drop had fallen.

Late at night was the messenger came back to Felix in the city sent to
the post office, and brought a letter for him. He paid [102] the
messenger, came when he was alone, in the light of his table, and
unsealed the well-known handwriting: "It gives me a lot of grief, That
in the heavy sorrow that I must refuse your request.

Your self position in the world makes it impossible to want to go,
my daughter sees that, so nothing can be, and has relented.

It is the summer and spend the winter in Italy, in order to recover,
and sends you by me, the best greetings. Sonst her faithful,
eternal friend.

"The man, as he read, met with schneebleichem face and twitching
lips away from the table - to the eyelashes trembled before Thränen.

He went a few times up and down, finally presented the
letter received on slowly the table, with the phased light against a
shrine, took out a packet of letters, put them together nicely,
wrapped it with a thin envelope and sealed it - then put it back
into the shrine.

"It is done" athmend he said, and stepped on's window, his eye on
the dark night sky thick radically. Below was a withered garden - the
Haide dormant - and even the remote village was hopeful dreams. It
was a long, long silence. "My self-position," he said finally be guided
upwards - and in deep, deep sorrow was it seems like a bliss jerking,
his worth. Then he wiped out the light and went to bed. The other
morning, when the eyes of all people opened, was the whole sky
Haide gray, dense, and a gentle rain trickled down the country.

All that everything was now gelöset the joyous celebration of the
church groups equipped , and were pleased by the delicious wet their
clothes, decreasing only to the temple of God and to thank - even
Felix let it fall through his clothes, went in and thanked with,
and none knew what his gentle, quiet eyes Bargen.

How far does our science of Felix, the Haide residents.
Meanwhile, in the Court House, it was agreed that supreme control of
the executive reverted naturally to the Commandant, subject only to
such power of criticism or restraint as the Council claimed over the
action of the Lord Proprietor himself. The twelve shouted "Aye" to this
with one voice.

The Commandant, however, reminded them that he had not yet put the
resolution, and that it was doubtful--he spoke as one who, some years
ago, had made a study of these constitutional niceties--"if the Council
of Twelve had really any say in the matter. They could, of course,
elect their own President----"

But at this point a noise of women's voices on the quay, followed by a
knocking on the door of the Council Chamber, put a period to the
impatience of his auditors.

The door was opened, and Mr. Rogers appeared on the threshold with a
tall officer, gaunt and white-haired, in military undress--at first
glance indisputably a person of distinction--standing close behind his
shoulder.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. President, if we interrupt the Council," began
Mr. Rogers; "but I have brought a visitor here, Sir Ommaney Ward, who
has business with you so soon as the sitting is over."

"--But who has no desire at all to interrupt it," added Sir Ommaney
courteously, stepping forward and bowing to the Council. "Good
afternoon, gentlemen! Good afternoon, sir!" He stepped forward to the
dais holding out his hand. "Hey? my old friend Vigoureux, have you
quite forgotten me, in all these years?"

"Ward!" exclaimed the Commandant, his face brightening with sudden
recognition. A moment later, even more suddenly, it grew gray and
haggard, almost (you might say) with terror. But the visitor did not
perceive this.

"My dear fellow, why not give me the name as it rose to your lips?
'Tubby' Ward it used to be in the trenches, eh? Gentlemen"--Sir Ommaney
turned to the Council--"your President and I have interrupted each
other's work before now--as gunner and sapper--under Sebastopol. But I
have no desire to interrupt yours, knowing how serious it is. Mr.
Rogers brought off the news--this disquieting, not to say dumbfounding,
news--to the yacht just now; and I hardly need to tell you that it puts
my own errand into the background. Sir,"--he turned to the Commandant
again--"I allowed Mr. Rogers to bring me here only on his surmise that
your business would be over. If you will give me, having announced
myself, your leave to withdraw----"

"We shall have done in a very few minutes," answered the Commandant.
His lips were dry, and he marvelled at the careless sound of his own
voice. He had not a doubt of the true meaning of Sir Ommaney's visit.
Nay, the very swiftness with which it followed upon his letter of
confession proved how serious a view the War Office must take of his
case. He pulled himself together desperately. "If you will take a
chair, sir, here on my right, I promise that twenty minutes will see us
at an end."

So the business of the Council was resumed, and the Commandant, still
wondering at his own coolness, took up the thread of his discourse.

It was, on the whole, an admirable discourse. He had the constitutional
system of the Islands at his fingers' ends, and to-day, with despair in
his heart, but thinking nothing of them nor recking at all, he
expounded them lucidly. His words, too, had a real effect upon his
hearers; an emotional effect which Sir Ommaney, sitting and listening
seriously, could not but note.

At the conclusion, Mr. Pope rose again, and proposed, and Mr. Fossell
again seconded, that the supreme government of the islands reverted
naturally, for the time being, to the Commandant: so that, for
practical purposes, it may be contended he had spoken superfluously.
But, to one who looked beneath the surface, this did not matter.

The Court rose, with its ancient formalities. "Reginæ et insulis ejus
sit Deus propitius," said the President, closing the Bible, which at
all meetings of the Council lay open on the table before him. "Ita et
laboribus nostris, Amen," duly responded the twelve Councillors,
standing in their places while he walked with his guest to the door. On
the threshold he faced about, and made them a bow, which they as
ceremoniously returned.

Out of doors the afternoon sun shone with a brightness almost dazzling
after the shade of the Court House; but the tonic north-west wind,
blowing across the Roads from Cromwell's Sound, held an autumnal chill,
and the Commandant shivered as he halted a moment to con the _Circe_ in
the offing.

"I travel in state," said Sir Ommaney, with a laugh, as he followed
this glance; "and with the cabins of half-a-dozen Sea Lords to choose
between. In point of fact, our department has no boat at Plymouth
capable of performing the passage comfortably: so, my business being
partly theirs, I applied to the Admiralty, and the Admiralty placed
their yacht at my disposal."

Just relax until I had read the letter. Edgar. I had been banned. If the
time it erfodert, so you can only herald the call, and I will again
become visible.

(Geht ab.) Albania. To want to live, I want to see on the paper. (Edmund
comes back.) Edmund. The enemy can be seen, let your peoples ausrüken,
Mylord. His real strength is, notwithstanding all the care needed,
difficult to village Why do so many. But your presence, Mylord is the
IZT Nöthiger. Albania. We want the time go. (Geht ab.) Third appearance.
Edmund.

Beyden my sisters, I love zugeschworen, and each one is on the other
so jealous than the Razor on the snake. beyden of What should I take?

Beyde? A? or none of beyden? None can be enjoyed if beyde Beyme
lives.

Do I Wittwer, it is nonsense to Gonerill upset, and as long as her
husband lives, I will hardly be able to run my intention. Well then,
we bedörfen his reputation Bey the meeting; geendiget this is so
like that which his los Seyn want to watch how it beykommen kan.

What betrift the grace which he against Lear and Cordelia has in mind,
they wofern our violence, so they certainly do not see them, because
my interest is auszuparieren not to Reiff. (Geht ab.) Fourth appearance.
(A turmoil and trumpets behind the blow-Schaubühne.) (Lear, Cordelia
and Soldiers with drag Trummeln and flags on the scene, and go
again.)

(Edgar and Gloster occur.) Edgar. Here, father, rest under the shade of
this tree wirthlichem, and pray for the progress of the fair thing.
I did not come back again, or I will bring you a comforting newspaper.

Cannot you
manage to drop the prefix?... Very well.... And now, if you have
nothing better to do, take me over the old fortifications."

They climbed the hill together to the Garrison gate, and thence,
bearing away to the left, started to make the round of the batteries.
He flinched as they came to the first--the King George's Battery--and
stood by the deserted platform. The bitter humiliation to be here,
master of a fortress without one single gun! Almost he dreaded to hear
his guest break forth with a contemptuous laugh.

Sir Ommaney, however, surveyed the ruin in silence, and when he spoke
it was only to ask a question concerning the trajectory of the guns
which had once furnished it. The Commandant walked by his side, a man
torn by many emotions. For the first time in fifteen years he, an
enthusiast in gunnery, had an opportunity to talk with one who really
cared for gunnery and understood it. On the other hand, and eagerly as
he jumped at every question, he could not help perceiving that these
batteries--of which he had been so proud--of which in recollection he
was yet so proud--were to Sir Ommaney but obsolete toys. This visitor
of his, this friend of his gallant youth, had moved with the times, and
the times had carried him to an infinite distance, beyond all
understanding. Thus, as he moved on from battery to battery, at times
our Commandant talked earnestly, wistfully, and at times fell to a
despondent silence; and still between his eagerness and his despondency
the personal question awoke--"He is kind, but he is here to pass
judgment on me. What can the sentence be but disgrace?" Arrived at the
Keg of Butter Battery, Sir Ommaney seated himself on the low wall, hard
by the spot where Vashti had dug at the stones with her sunshade.

"My dear Vigoureux," said Sir Ommaney, after a long look seaward, "I
haven't a doubt you regret your guns, obsolete though you know that
they were. For that matter, your batteries--their build and their very
positions--are quite as hopelessly out of date."

"Man," exclaimed the Commandant, with a sudden rush of blood to the
face, "do you suppose I cannot guess why you are here? Oh, for God's
sake let me hear the worst! If for five years I have been an enforced
idler here, do me at least the justice to believe that I know the range
of modern artillery and something of what a modern battleship can do.
Fifteen years ago when I came to take over the command of the Islands,
the old _Black Prince_ was the last word in ships and gunnery. Think of
it! Yet, the basis of defence, the simple principle, lies here, and has
always lain here. If you had come to discuss this----"

Sir Ommaney lifted a hand. "But that is partly--even chiefly--what I am
come to consider."

"Ah!"

"And I have seen a letter about you, addressed to the War Office by the
Lord Proprietor: an unfriendly letter, I may say."

The Commandant's cheeks were already warm with excitement, but at this
their colour deepened.

"I beg you to believe," said he, heartily, "that if Sir Cæsar has
written about me, my letter was sent without knowledge of it, and in no
desire to anticipate----"

"My dear fellow," Sir Ommaney interrupted; "I have some little sense
left in my head, I hope. But will you put constraint upon yourself for
a moment to forget these letters, to dismiss the personal question, and
simply to resume our talk."

"I will try," agreed the Commandant, after a painful pause. "But it
will be hard; harder perhaps than you can understand. Honours have come
to you--deservedly, I admit----"

"And too late," Sir Ommaney again took him up. "My dear Vigoureux, when
we knew one another in the old days, honours seemed to both of us the
most desirable thing in the world. Believe me, they always come too
late."

The Commandant looked at him for a moment. "Yes," said he at length,
"we have talked enough of ourselves. And what do we matter, after all?"

They walked back to the Barracks together, side by side, discussing, as
one soldier with another, the problem which the one had opened, on
which the other had brooded in silence for years.

Arrived at his quarters, the Commandant applied the poker to his fire,
motioned Sir Ommaney to the worn armchair, excused himself, and hurried
off to seek Archelaus and discuss the chances of a cup of tea.

Sir Ommaney, left to himself, took a glance round the poverty-stricken
room, and stretched out his long legs to the blaze. The evening air
without had been chilly. The sea-coal in the grate, stirred by the
Commandant's poker, woke to a warm glow with a small dancing flame on
top. Sir Ommaney stared into the glow, lost in thought.... A tapping on
the pane awoke him out of his brown study. He sat upright, but almost
with the same motion he sprang to his feet as a hand pushed open the
window behind him.

There was no light in the room save that afforded by the dancing,
uncertain flame. It wavered, as he turned about, upon the figure of a
woman entering confidently across the sill, and upon a face at sight of
which he drew back almost in terror.

"Pass, friend, and all's well!" said Vashti, with a light laugh, as she
effected her entrance. Then, catching sight of the man confronting her,
she caught at the curtain, and said, simply, "O-oh!"

"Lord, bless my soul!" exclaimed Sir Ommaney, in a low voice, but
fervently.

"I--I thought you were the Commandant," stammered Vashti, for once in
this history taken thoroughly aback.

"Mademoiselle Cara!... You? And here, of all places in the world!"

But upon this they both turned, as the door opened and the Commandant
stood on the threshold.

"Miss Vashti!" The Commandant stared from one to the other.

Everything and every feeling finally stopped in front of the terrible
fear that every day in the hearts of the people rose.

Now were no more clouds in the sky, but forever and forever blue, he
smiled gently down to the despairing people. Also another phenomenon
is now often seen on the Haide, which probably occurred earlier
also have liked, but no one attends, but now, when thousands and
thousands of views a day after the sky fell, they were regarded as
unglückweissagender spook: namely a forests and hills, beyond the
Haide located, and it has not made visible, was now often very clear
in the sky that made him not only saw everything, but that the
individual ridges and summits and to call managed to show -- and
if it is in the village said that it was to see again, so everything
went out, and saw it, and it was sometimes stand for hours until
it is varied, in length and width strip moved to zerstückte, and
with one disappeared.

Haide The lark was silent, but it sounded all day, and also in the
warm nights thaulosen the eternal lonely chirp of grasshoppers and
Wetzer on Haide, and the cry of fear Kibitzer.

The Fast Wässerlein was just more like a thin silk thread on the
gray area, and grain and barley in the village were fahlgrün and
unsubstantial in the air, [95] and told in the same breath with
noise leichtfertigem their inner emptiness.

The fruit trees were small and mißreif on the earth, the leaves were
dusty and Blümlein was nothing on the lawn of himself as rushing
paper between the boxes you buy a new. It was the ultimate time. We
begged with fervor to the sealed vault of heaven. Well stand back
some clouds for days on mountain at the southern sky, and yet never was
such a substance-free thing like a cloud, so many eyes viewed as eagerly
viewed as here - but when evening came, the cloud erglühte purple
mountain [96] nicely , zerging, lösete louder in beautiful roses
scattered on the company Mente, and disappeared - and the millions
of stars occupied the friendly skies.

So was the Friday before Pentecost came, and the soft blue air was a
bare rock has become. Niklas father was on the afternoon came Haide, the
stream was now versiecht, [97] the grass down to a ceiling of schalgrauem
[98] Felt disappeared, not fodder for a sole factor rabbits, only the
indestructible and unverderbliche Haide son who battered and despised
shrub, of juniper, stood with an iron perseverance as the only
animated Feldbusch, the green banner of hope, because he voluntarily
offered this year, just such a wealth of the biggest blue berries,
so overflowing, as none Haide memory resident, was judged. - A
sudden hope came in Niklas head, and he thought a judge with the
elders of the village about Rathen, if not tomorrow or the day after
the change.

He went far and wide, and looked at the harvest, not gesäet,
and are not intended to, and he was always rich and richer, that
God knows in what distant reckend only - but because he was the
poor one thousand animals a [99] in the resultant Nothstand be
offset if you collect the berries alone, he thought, God the Lord
will have to enter them, while the Krammetsvogel fly, the deer must
run in order to find other food.

As he homeward in the Fields came, he accepted a plaice and crushed
them, but they went under his hands like chalk apart - and the corn,
old before his time, began to become a deaf harvest [100] for bleaching.

"Indeed, mademoiselle? And whom are we to congratulate? Who is it that
selfishly appropriates what was meant for mankind?"

"Faith, sir, I cannot tell you," she answered again, still in the same
light tone. "But I came, just now, to kidnap the Commandant!"

Without giving a chance of reply, she broke into singing again; the
air, _Ah, fors é lui_. It gushed from her lips like a very fountain of
happiness, irrepressible, springing towards the stars in jets and
spurts of melody, falling with a ripple in which the music of the stars
themselves seemed to echo; almost in the moment of its fall rising
again, as though it panted with joy--not with weariness, for the spirit
of it called impetuously to life. The two men listened, marvelling. Nor
when the song ended was the spell broken; for still, as she pulled
towards the looming shadow of Inniscaw, sinking her voice almost to a
murmur, she took up the melody as though in echo, caressing, repeating
it, loth to let it go.

They came to the dark landing-quay. Sir Ommaney, stepping ashore,
stretched out a hand; but she disregarded it, as she disregarded the
Commandant's, held out to take the painter and make fast.

"Thank you"--she stooped, apparently groping among the bottom-boards.
"I will moor the boat myself. But wait: I have something for each of
you to carry."

In the darkness she passed up a double tackle and a coil of rope. "I
fetched these from Saaron on my way to you," she explained. "We shall
need them. Have you fairly strong heads for a climb? Very well,
then"--she sprang ashore with the painter in her hand, made it fast to
a ring above the quay steps, and picked up the lantern. "Now forward!
And no talking, please, until we are well past the house and out of
hearing!"

Sir Ommaney picked up the tackle, the Commandant the coil of rope, and
the pair followed her one behind the other. In Indian file they stole
up through the plantations, almost to the foot of the glimmering
terrace; thence, bearing to the left, along dim paths through the mazes
of the gardens, thence again through the north-west plantation, and out
upon the path which the Lord Proprietor had taken, on his way to North
Inniscaw. Here, on the uplands, the breeze met them, and at his feet
Sir Ommaney, for the first time, saw spread the wonderful circle of the
great sea lights. Smaller lights twinkled like a thread of gems along
the north and north-eastern horizon. They belonged to the boats still
prosecuting the search.

From the first Vashti had led the way without faltering or appearing to
hesitate for a moment. Even when clear of the woods her companions
observed the prohibition she had laid upon them at the start, and
exchanged scarcely a word.

"You have followed well," said Vashti, as they reached the foot of Pare
Coppa. She pointed to the mass of shadow ahead, and the granite blocks
on the summit faintly touched by the starlight. "I know now what it
feels like to command soldiers, and it feels good. There, by that high
rock to the left, our march ends."

They breasted the slope and arrived at the rock panting, after seven or
eight minutes' climb. It was the same on which Sam Leggo had last seen
the Lord Proprietor sitting with his gun across his knees. But why she
had brought them to this spot the two men were as far as ever from
guessing; for almost straight beneath them lay the sea.

After a minute's rest Vashti lowered herself over the western edge of
the rock, at the same time warning them to follow with extreme caution;
and so all three came to the ledge of the adit. But their business did
not lie here. Indeed, in the darkness neither Sir Ommaney nor the
Commandant observed the opening, and Vashti had no leisure to call
their attention to it. Clambering, still to the left, across a boulder
which fairly overhung the sea, she struck a match, lit the candle in
her lantern, and held it up before a dark hole--a second adit--pierced
in the cliff-side and running west, as the other ran south-by-east.

"Be careful, now!" she warned them again, and ducked her head as she
entered the tunnel, which was scarcely more than five feet high. They
stooped and followed down the slope of it for about thirty yards, and
halted behind her as she waved the lantern over what appeared at first
to be a terrific chasm, opening at her feet.

"Eli, ahoy! Ahoy, there!" she called.

"Ahoy!" the voice came up from the depths. "Ahoy, there, Vashti!"

"I have brought the Commandant, with a friend--and the tackle. Shall I
fix it here?"

"That's no work for you, my dear," called up Eli. "Let them come down
if they've heads for it, and afterwards I can climb up and fix it. Or,
stay! Let the one come down, and the other bide aloft, to help me."

"Do you dare?" Vashti asked the Commandant, pointing down to the pit,
and then with a wave of her lantern indicating the stairway by which he
must descend. It was a ladder of rope, suspended from an iron bar
driven into the solid rock about a foot above the floor-level on which
they stood. It dangled down into darkness, and the Commandant perceived
to his horror that its iron rungs lay close against the cliff.

"Surely you are never going down that way?" he asked.

But Vashti was already stooping to slip off her shoes.

"You need not follow unless you choose."

"Where you go, I go. Let me lead the way."

But while he unlaced and kicked off his boots she had already grasped
the iron bar and swung herself out over the abyss, feeling with her
toes for a rung and a good foothold.

"For my part," said Sir Ommaney, controlling with some difficulty the
tremor of his voice as he saw her anchored safely for the moment, "I am
content to smoke a pipe here and wait. For God's sake be careful you
two!" he added, as the Commandant also gripped the bar, then a rung,
and began to lower himself.

Far below the Commandant could see a light glimmering, drawing faint
twinkles from the wet rock around him. Just beneath him he could hear
Vashti's hands rhythmically catching at the rungs--down, down.... Once
his feet slipped from the staves, and he hung for a moment by his
hand-grip only. Twice Vashti spoke up to him, warning him to press a
knee against the rock, and so make room for his toes to catch the
rungs.... At length they reached a point where the ladder hung clear of
the cliff; but here a hand from below caught it and held it steady.

"Nervous work, sir!" said Eli Tregarthen, as the Commandant, with a
gasp of relief, felt his feet touch solid rock.

"But where are we?" And rebuelta a large stone to the door of the
Sepulcher, was 61.

And there I was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary, sitting in front
of the Sepulcher. 62 And the next day, and is the second day of
Preparation of the [Easter] juntaronše the chief priests and Pilate
Pharišeos. 63 Diziendo, Lord, that that deceiver acordamosnos ^
dixo biviëdo even after the third day rešušcitaré 64.

Sepulcher Send it to fortify the third day: Pory not his disciples come
by night and it hurt, and say to the People, Rešušcitò of the dead:
and shall be last and the worst mistake first. 65 dizel Pilate ^ saves
teneys: id, fortified entendeys. 66 And they going, fortified with the
Sepulcher stores , sealing the stone. capita. XXVIII. And on the eve
of Sabban and morning for the first of Sabban came Mary Magdalene and
the other Mary to see the Sepulcher.

Heaqui And 2, became a great earthquake: for the Angel of the Lord
of heaven and decendiendo coming avia rebuelto the stone from the
door [of the Sepulcher] and I was sitting on it. 3 and ašpeckto was
like lightning: and his clothing white as snow. 4 And the guards
were afraid deel aššombradas and were as Buelta dead. 5 and answering
the Angel, dixo to mugeres, No temays you, because [I] is that
bušcays à Iesus [which was] crucified. 6 He is not here: Pory has
rešušcitado as dixo.

Come, see the place where the Lord. 7 And presto id, Dezid his disciples,
who rešušcitado of the dead: heaqui and waiting for you in Galilee,
there you vereys: heaqui you what I said. 8 Then [they] Leaving the
Sepulcher with fear and great joy, they were running to bring his
disciples. ^ Y going to bring his disciples, 9 Iesus Heaqui goes
to meet them, diziendo, Ayays joy, And they came, and through their
feet, and adoraronlo. 10 Then Iesus Dize them, not temays go ^ ing
new to my brothers, going to Galilee, and there I see. yëdo And 11
of them, some of the stores heaqui comes to town, and give notice
to the chief priests all the things happened and Air. 12 and together
with the elders, avid board gave money to the soldiers, 13 Diziendo:
Dezid, his disciples came by night and stole the sleeping us. 14
And if this was the President oydo persuade us, and we Hazera
insurance. 15 And they, borrowed money, as hizieron estava inštruydos:
and this saying was reported among Iudios until the day of oy. 16
But the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain, where
they avia Iesus ordered. 17 And as we saw, adoraronlo: but some
dudavan. 18 And Iesus coming, hablôles, diziendo, I have been given
all authority in heaven and on earth. 19 id portanto, teach all
nations; Baptized in the name of the Father and the Son, and Spirit
šanckto: 20 teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have
commanded you: and heaqui I am with you always until the end of
Amen century.

"To confess the truth," put in the Lord Proprietor, "my fall seems to
have knocked some daylight into me, or else Miss Vashti is a witch.
While she bound up my hurts we had some conversation together----"

"It was I who did the talking," interposed Vashti.

"And that, perhaps, explains why in so short a while I learnt so much.
I learnt enough, sir, at any rate, of you and of Eli Tregarthen to make
me suspect that I had done you both some injustice. I was willing to
hear more; to prolong the adventure which"--he bowed after a fashion
towards Vashti, and not ungallantly--"had its--er--romantic side. I
decided that if Miss Cara spoke with knowledge, it would do me good to
see myself for a brief while as others in the Islands see me, even to
hear what they said of me by way of obituary criticism."

He paused at a sound on the far side of the cave. It came from the
ladder; the sound of Eli's hobnailed boots, rung upon rung, as he
climbed aloft towards the adit, to fasten the tackle there.

"It seems a monstrous height to be swung in air, helpless as a babe.
But Tregarthen says it can be done, and I am willing to trust him. If
at the top you can rig up some kind of litter for me, and convey me
home without noise ... I have a fancy, and it is also Miss Cara's, that
we keep the main part of this mystery to ourselves. But who is the
helper aloft there?"

"Sir Ommaney Ward."

"Hey?"

"Sir Ommaney Ward."

"The devil! And I sent for him! Forgive me, Commandant----"

"And excuse me, Sir Cæsar, but I prefer to believe he is here because
my letter brought him."

The Lord Proprietor held out his hand.

"Will you take it, Commandant? Miss Cara has told me of that letter.
You are a good man, and I have wronged you."


CHAPTER XXIX

CONCLUSION


Three years and a few months have passed. The date is Easter Monday
(Easter falls early this year), and from the Keg of Butter Battery the
Commandant, as he stands looking seaward, hears the school-bell ringing
in the town at the foot of Garrison Hill, though the school has been
closed a week since for the Easter holidays.

He hears it, but for a while pays no attention to it, though it keeps
ding-dinging insistently. His eyes are bent on the sea; yet not in the
direction of Saaron, where, if they sought carefully, they might detect
a trace of smoke coiling up from the fold of the hills which hides Eli
Tregarthen's farm; but westward, towards the main, whence the steamer
will arrive before nightfall. She is not due for hours, yet the
Commandant's gaze searches the horizon.

The Keg of Butter Battery mounts no guns as yet It is no longer the
ruined platform above which Vashti sat on the crumbling wall and poked
at the wild thyme with her sunshade. The Government contractor has
transformed it: the wall has disappeared, and a smooth glacis slopes
from the Commandant's feet over hidden chambers, constructed to house
those quick-firing guns. The chambers are ready: the guns will arrive
within a week. It is not for them, however, that the Commandant scans
the horizon so intently.

Although it is holiday-time, the bells in the town below are ringing to
the school-house; but the school-house is filled with flowers. 11
If you then, being evil, šabeys to give good gifts to your children,
your Father in heaven will bc more good things to those who ask deel?
12 Anšique, all things and querriades and men co hizieššen you,
ansi also hazed them with you because this is the law and the prophets.
13 Enter the narrow gate because the road that leads to perdition is
wide and spacious: and those who are on, are many. 14 ^ Because
gate is narrow, and narrow the road that leads to life: and few and
we are 15.

Also, Beware of false prophets which come to you dressed in sheep but
inwardly are wolves of robbers. On their 16 conocereys the fruit.
At the
school-house door he meets the Lord Proprietor, and they shake hands as
they enter the building together. But after going the round of the
stalls, the Lord Proprietor looks up.

"She is coming this afternoon, is she not?"

"She is coming," says the Commandant, and looks forth from the open
window over the sea.


Novels and Stories by "Q"

Published by CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS


POISON ISLAND

"Down to the last chapter, in which an amazing adventure is brought to
an amazing end, the reader is kept in a sympathetic mood."--N. Y.
_Tribune_.

"Well worth reading, for who does not delight in a tale of lost
treasure?"--Boston _Herald_.

$1.50

                    *      *      *      *      *

SIR JOHN CONSTANTINE

"As a tale of romantic adventure we have hardly had anything since
Stevenson's time so good."--_The Outlook_.

"A lively tale well told."--Chicago _Daily News_.

"An English Don Quixote."--N. Y. _Tribune_.

$1.50

                    *      *      *      *      *

THE MAYOR OF TROY

"If a more whimsical, delightfully written, and satisfying story could
result, it is safe to say that the public will demand that the whole
gallery of Cornwall mayors be represented by 'Q.'"--New York _Evening
Post_.

Grandpré Since I had neither car nor servant nor suitcase again,
hope and concern, therefore, changed from the moment.

The night was come, the children should go to bed, she approached
her father and mother reverently, bowed, kissed their hands and
said: "Bon soir, Papa!

Bon soir, Maman!"

with desirable grace. Soon thereafter we learned that the Prince of
Brunswick in our neighborhood is dangerously ill, and inquired
about him.

                    

Boys will read it with delight and get
nothing but good out of it."--London _Athenaeum_.

$1.50

                    *      *      *      *      *

THE WHITE WOLF: and Other Fireside Tales

"As a teller of short stories 'Q' is an author of infinite variety and
charm unfailing. His invention is fertile in surprises, and his
conceits are a perpetual delight."--New York _Evening Sun_.

$1.50