I dropped on the banks of wet grass and I said: - This is where sweet
words have changed. The whole garden, home, yard and everything
that he had been aware since the world is suddenly illuminated with a
new light which was propagated by all parties with a purplish reflection.
A wonderful life seemed to have emerged there. I was so immersed in
these imaginings, which ended by believing it was me who had lived through
that love. When I see Marta, dared not lift her eyes, as if I had carried
the secret hidden in my heart she was and who should not guess. But
when, the next morning, I realized that accurate Marta had really
experienced all that I did not do more than dream, I am completely
disturbed, and from a dark corner, consider it without interruption,
with fearful eyes and tellers, as one who belonged to another world. I
noticed that every five minutes left the roof, where you could see
the front door, but then kept me very well to direct questions
intrusive.

I imagined being a confidant and an accomplice. It was a clear day in
September, a wonderful beauty. On the plains and forests floated as velos
pink, silvery thread trembling silent in the air, the river was wearing a
cloak of vapor, a religious peace is looming over the landscape.
I went to the forest because it could never find enough solitude to
dream my anchas. In the branches of poplar could be heard rubbing and
yellowing of leaves, ferns and let down their stems like little creatures
that can be wound up. - I was saddened, "the whole of nature is going
to die - I -- - Ah! If you could die with her! "Then I remembered all
the jokes he had read or heard about the emotional impressions of autumn.
- What are those hideous jokes - I said .-- But nobody mock me; know
hide hide and know what I feel. For anyone interested in what goes on
inside me and I may well be regarded as a girl cold and heartless, as
long as I know that this heart beats full of zeal and love for
humanity. - Yeah, that was one days full of charm, wonderful days, and
would be happy all I have left of life, if I could return to it.
He looked like an apparition; but it was the apparition of a martyr.

Urbain stopped, or, rather, was set down upon the peristyle of the
church; the Capuchin Lactantius placed a lighted torch in his right hand,
and held it there, as he said to him, with his hard inflexibility:

"Do penance, and ask pardon of God for thy crime of magic."

The unhappy man raised his voice with great difficulty, and with his eyes
to heaven said:

"In the name of the living God, I cite thee, Laubardemont, false judge,
to appear before Him in three years.  They have taken away my confessor,
and I have been fain to pour out my sins into the bosom of God Himself,
for my enemies surround me.  I call that God of mercy to witness I never
have dealt in magic.  I have known no mysteries but those of the Catholic
religion, apostolic and Roman, in which I die; I have sinned much against
myself, but never against God and our Lord--"

"Cease!"  cried the Capuchin, affecting to close his mouth ere he could
pronounce the name of the Saviour.  "Obdurate wretch, return to the demon
who sent thee!"

He signed to four priests, who, approaching with sprinklers in their
hands, exorcised with holy water the air the magician breathed, the earth
he touched, the wood that was to burn him.  During this ceremony, the
judge-Advocate hastily read the decree, dated the 18th of August, 1639,
declaring Urbain Grandier duly attainted and convicted of the crime of
sorcery, witchcraft, and possession, in the persons of sundry Ursuline
nuns of Loudun, and others, laymen, etc.

The reader, dazzled by a flash of lightning, stopped for an instant,
and, turning to M. de Laubardemont, asked whether, considering the awful
weather, the execution could not be deferred till the next day.

"The decree," coldly answered Laubardemont, "commands execution within
twenty-four hours.  Fear not the incredulous people; they will soon be
convinced."

All the most important persons of the town and many strangers were under
the peristyle, and now advanced, Cinq-Mars among them.

"The magician never has been able to pronounce the name of the Saviour,
and repels his image."

Lactantius at this moment issued from the midst of the Penitents, with an
enormous iron crucifix in his hand, which he seemed to hold with
precaution and respect; he extended it to the lips of the sufferer, who
indeed threw back his head, and collecting all his strength, made a
gesture with his arm, which threw the cross from the hands of the
Capuchin.

Had written off my debt and was in complete freedom, with a heart
lightened as I swore ensure hereinafter as an angel to protect my
sister, much more than me, simple girl with no experience and needed
support and protection.

And she felt, therefore, although I would have treated as a creature,
is left to me without resistance.

At last he had achieved what I wanted my heart.

There was a man who could caress and pamper my taste, and then
nothing since we separated, dedicated to my sister all the tenderness
that had slept for so long dormant in the depths of my soul.

There was little surprise of my father and my mother to see in our
relations, in recent times especially left much to be desired, that intimacy,
that new cordiality, and Tuesday it was difficult to get used to it. I
always looked surprised and said often - How could have ever guessed
that you had so much affection! If I had known what sacrifice had to
reveal my secret, would have even more value to my hon. In truth, my
present had not deceived me, from the moment Martha had the cards in their
hands, ended forever that I caused this secret agreement with Roberto.
It was no longer for me than a stranger, and when I sat to write,
I seemed to be a simple copy machine responsible for the thoughts
of others and I happened to Martha often deliver a letter without
having read as just received from the hands of the butler.

Sometimes I feel remorse when you think that abusing the trust of
Roberto, as he did not know that Martha was in secret, but when I
looked when I saw her smile deployed, and shine in her eyes dreamy
peace and happiness, I said it was impossible to have done wrong,
and my scruples were silenced.

Until then he had not cheated more he, my betrayal was too early
to reach Marta.

IX Winter and Spring came and went quickly when the sheaves began
to pile on the Trojan.

Roberto was to come as soon as the harvest had been completed, "but until
then - wrote, - will have to be overcome in a more serious difficulty.

"One day, Dad came into the kitchen where we were, and taking an
indifferent expression, walked for a moment between caldrons, puff
and banging your rod long rods of their boots. - Have you become
inspector of cuisines today, Dad?

- said. He released a short laugh and said: - Yes, I've become inspector
of cuisines. And after having gone some still minutes in silence, stopped
suddenly in front of Martha and said: - If you have time, my daughter,
perhaps you could come a moment? Your mother and I have to talk. - Well,
well, now I understand those long preliminary! Can I attend the
interview? - No - replied he - you stay in the kitchen. For a moment
silence reigned in the house on my own steam whistle, pans sang, was
the maid high noise to clean the knives, but suddenly he heard,
dominating all that noise, a short, shrill cry that could not come
over to Marta. agucé trembling ear, and in the very moment Dad was
rushed into the kitchen shouting: - Water!

I spent at his side like an exhalation, and I found my sister lying
on the floor, unconscious, her head on mom's lap. - What have you done
to Martha? - leaving me screamed kneeling down beside it. Nobody
told me. Mom, unreasonable, his hands were twisted and bitten dad
mustache, no doubt to keep the tears. Then, when tilt my sister saw it
in the ground next to her, a sheet of letter paper lined blue; I gripped
him so strongly as I could, without anyone noticing the movement.
Then I hurried to do the most urgent, which was to come to Martha
and accompanied her to the miserable quarter, which ran around
them looks dazed.

Once there slept. With eyes fixed on the ceiling, I am occasionally asked
to drink did not seem to have recovered his senses yet. But I got a
secret letter from my pocket and read what I transcribe literally here,
because I have carefully preserved the monument the love of a
mother and a sister: "My very dear brother, my dear sister!"

A very sad situation for me compels me to write today. Are persuaded, no
doubt, that much I love you and my heart has no desire to keep
living with you and your children the most cordial relations. Since I
am in the world, I have not done that well, I have not seen anything but
love me and you always have. On behalf of affection that you have addressed
a plea today, dictated by my mother tortured heart by anguish.
"Parbleu, Monsieur!"  answered the old servant, in a grumbling tone,
"do you suppose that I should obey you any more than I did Monsieur le
Marechal?  When my late master, after telling me to remain in his tent,
found me behind him in the cannon's smoke, he made no complaint, because
he had a fresh horse ready when his own was killed, and he only scolded
me for a moment in his thoughts; but, truly, during the forty years I
served him, I never saw him act as you have in the fortnight I have been
with you.  Ah!"  he added with a sigh, "things are going strangely; and
if we continue thus, there's no knowing what will be the end of it."

"But knowest thou, Grandchamp, that these scoundrels had made the
crucifix red hot?--a thing at which no honest man would have been less
enraged than I."

"Except Monsieur le Marechal, your father, who would not have done at all
what you have done, Monsieur."

"What, then, would he have done?"

"He would very quietly have let this cure be burned by the other cures,
and would have said to me, 'Grandchamp, see that my horses have oats, and
let no one steal them'; or, 'Grandchamp, take care that the rain does not
rust my sword or wet the priming of my pistols'; for Monsieur le Marechal
thought of everything, and never interfered in what did not concern him.
That was his great principle; and as he was, thank Heaven, alike good
soldier and good general, he was always as careful of his arms as a
recruit, and would not have stood up against thirty young gallants with a
dress rapier."

Cinq-Mars felt the force of the worthy servitor's epigrammatic scolding,
and feared that he had followed him beyond the wood of Chaumont; but he
would not ask, lest he should have to give explanations or to tell a
falsehood or to command silence, which would at once have been taking him
into confidence on the subject.  I felt, suddenly, a cold glacial filled
me, as if emanating from his body be moved to mine. - See? You feel you
got it right! - Muttered, raising his large eyes towards me worried. - You
are mad - I said, trying to laugh.

Continues to be felt throughout my body that calofríos ice. A vague
feeling told me that Marta could not very well be wrong. But by the time
it was consoled. - How can you be so stupid atormentarte well for
yourself? Did not you say its night and day you are in error - I know what
I know - she replied, softly, with that haughty resignation that is the
weapon of the weak .-- And this I say no data today. This fear has many
years was in my heart even before we were married, and I knew well what
they did then when I refused to be his wife, he was love, just love that
guided me! -- Marta! ¡Marta! - Exclaimed in the tone of reproach .-- I
think I've hidden a lot. - Everything I told you at that time - she said
- but you do not want to believe, wanted to force my happiness and later,
why should she talk? On paper things take a different meaning than the
one they wanted to, would be completed by to see my words as a rebuke
to Sharon, perhaps even yourself, and I could not lead to such a mistake.
Unfortunately my data the day we arrived here. When I saw him fighting
with his mother, I heard a voice shouting: "Yours is the fault!"
When every day I saw him put more sombre and sad, I repeat again at the
bottom of my heart: 'Yours is the fault!

"During the night I was awakened by his side, haunted by this thought:"
Why are you so sad and so melancholy, but do not know why arrojarte
crying in his arms and suffer doubly when you see it suffer? "Why you
have not learned to sing Echarte his neck, from returning to your
home and, with the smile on the lips, to erase wrinkles with a kiss
on her forehead?

Even more, why you are missing the pride and strength? Why you can not
say: 'Refúgiate at my side, if your heart trembles, you will find new
strength in me, I will ensure you and hold on your steps. "That is what
would you have done, sister, no, they do not contradict me. I have
often represented the attitude would have you, with your high
stature, it would have opened their arms to enable him to take
refuge in them, as in a port where the storms do not dare to enter
...

But look at me - and say this led to a look of pity on his body
weak and delicate, with thin contours delineated under the blanket
.-- That language would not be ridiculous in my mouth?

I almost lost me in his arms, I'm so small, so fragile, but no
good for me to protect, to protect others is not my thing ...

Look, I reflected on all that long night, in darkness, and the disappointment
has taken me more than ever. In the morning I tried to laugh, I wanted
to pretend indifference and joy of a bird, believing that this was the
best role that I would like it more, but the singing and laughter
drowned in my throat, and he noticed very well, smiling with a
compassionate expression, and I do feel my shame.

Without strength, Martha stopped and hid her face in my skirt, then
continued: - And here I was not the result we expected, so I tried than
compensate in other ways.

You know that never in my life I've been afraid to work, but until now
had never had on my work as an ordeal during these three years. And,
when it was over, when my knees are bent almost under my weight, still
ahead, however, sustained by this thought: "Do see that you are at least
useful for something, so arréglate never know how little actually has on
your person ... "But what good is that? All my efforts are entirely
futile. As soon as everything is back behind the disorder. Tiemblo
incessantly that one day my work will seem insufficient. It complained the
wretched, and I had torn the heart to see so much pain. - Listen, I have
to make an appeal - said she finally tomándome both hands: - Roberto
polls, sought to know if you are happy with me and then tell me.
attracted to me, you loving prodigal thousand words, and tried to
keep my caricias fear, restlessness of his spirit.

She drank to love each of my words, his face was pending febricitante my
lips and occasionally a faint sigh escaped from her chest. - Oh! Why do
not you always at my side - he exclaimed, patting their hands.

The young man abandoned himself to the bitterness of his
thoughts; he asked himself whether the bright object of his hopes would
not flee from him day by day, as that phosphoric light fled from him in
the horizon, step by step.  Was it probable that the young Princess,
almost forcibly recalled to the gallant court of Anne of Austria, would
always refuse the hands, perhaps royal ones, that would be offered to
her?  What chance that she would resign herself to renounce a present
throne, in order to wait till some caprice of fortune should realize
romantic hopes, or take a youth almost in the lowest rank of the army and
lift him to the elevation she spoke of, till the age of love should be
passed?  How could he be certain that even the vows of Marie de Gonzaga
were sincere?

"Alas!"  he said, "perhaps she has blinded herself as to her own
sentiments; the solitude of the country had prepared her soul to receive
deep impressions.  I came; she thought I was he of whom she had dreamed.
Our age and my love did the rest.  But when at court, she, the companion
of the Queen, has learned to contemplate from an exalted position the
greatness to which I aspire, and which I as yet see only from a very
humble distance; when she shall suddenly find herself in actual
possession of the future she aims at, and measures with a more correct
eye the long road I have to travel; when she shall hear around her vows
like mine, pronounced by lips which could undo me with a word, with a
word destroy him whom she awaits as her husband, her lord--oh, madman
that I have been!--she will see all her folly, and will be incensed at
mine."

Thus did doubt, the greatest misery of love, begin to torture his unhappy
heart; he felt his hot blood rush to his head and oppress it.  Ever and
anon he fell forward upon the neck of his horse, and a half sleep weighed
down his eyes; the dark firs that bordered the road seemed to him
gigantic corpses travelling beside him.  He saw, or thought he saw, the
same woman clothed in black, whom he had pointed out to Grandchamp,
approach so near as to touch his horse's mane, pull his cloak, and then
run off with a jeering laugh; the sand of the road seemed to him a river
running beneath him, with opposing current, back toward its source.  This
strange sight dazzled his worn eyes; he closed them and fell asleep on
his horse.

Presently, he felt himself stopped, but he was numbed with cold and could
not move.  She gripped my hands and close as if he had wanted to warm up
with your contact. - Did you sleep well? - Asked the same voice hoarse
falsetto that .-- I did not know him a sign so while was born in
me a keen sense of shame.

What was my big project abnegation compared with the kind of selflessness,
of forgetfulness of self, reflected in the smallest and largest in the
circumstances, and that was all the same love? And I, selfish and proud,
I am still of that sublime envanecía resolution of my heart! - Did
you like the arrangement of your room - she continued, while its sweet
and sad eyes passing a faint gleam of malice. By way of response humbly
pose in her lips a kiss of gratitude. - Yeah, kiss me, kiss me
again!

- she said .-- Your mouth is so beautiful, so hot: heat gives the body and
soul. And a new calofríos shaking. An instant later came Roberto. - Get
ready, dear - said stroking the cheek of Martha - the doctor, our uncle
had come. Then I made a sign and left behind he. Next to the cradle of
a newborn found already old man, whose gray beard had been shaved for
several days, the flat nose and red eyes and two living and intelligent
that I looked behind the bright smile of his glasses goggles. -- So, is
it? - said extending his hand.
The people still shouted.  He bowed
low to kiss that helping hand, that adored hand; it was the hand of the
executioner!

"Oh, heavens!"  exclaimed Cinq-Mars, as, heaving a deep sigh, he opened
his eyes.  A flickering lamp lighted the ruinous chamber of the inn; he
again closed his eyes, for he had seen, seated on his bed, a woman, a
nun, young and beautiful!  He thought he was still dreaming, but she
grasped his hand firmly.  He opened his burning eyes, and fixed them upon
her.

"Is it you, Jeannede Belfiel?  The rain has drenched your veil and your
black hair!  Why are you here, unhappy woman?"

And I shook calofríos without interruption while my body lay inert and
forces in his arms. I once went through his head this thought: 'Can I
return the kisses? "But I did not dare. How long had me so?
I am going to the army to find him; I will speak to him as
Grandier taught me to speak, and he will pardon him.  And listen, I will
also ask thy pardon, for I read it in thy face that thou, too, art
condemned to death.  Unable to say more. I pressed cuffs: would have known
so well to conclude the sentence with him! - You know - Marta said - that
the patient is always the last to know that is not right. - I believed
he should know better than anyone.
Thou hast struck with it, and thou wearest it round thy
neck by a hair chain.  Nay, hide not thy face; have I said aught to
afflict thee, or is it that thou lovest, young man?  At that time,
a new thought seemed to discourage it again. I stressed to talk,
but did not decide to do so, at last he said, stammering and babbling:
- You do everything a thousand times better than me, taught him that could
have have and what you have, see what poor creature I am on your
side!

A horror came over me, then I understood. He dreamed of owning a home,
but that dream vanished. How could he stay in that house, when my sister
was consumed with jealousy and pain caused by mine?

"What the devil's that-an imp or an angel, saying the funeral service
over you, and you under the clothes, as if you were in a shroud?"

- Acquire the right to contribute to your happiness - while I stroked his
little round head and Luciente, on which the trembling breath of air a
few barely visible hairs, fine as silk. The day before, had just directed
a look at this criaturita; that day to see you, my chest is long and
filled with an infinite tenderness. - Since yesterday, you become more
pure and better - I said to myself mentally. The visit was long, lasting
concern.This military remedy
rarely fails to effect its purpose, and Cinq-Mars returned to himself
with a start.

"Ah! it is thou, Grandchamp; what frightful dreams I have had!"

