A LITTLE FLORIDA LADY

by

DOROTHY C. PAINE


[Frontispiece: The Little Florida Lady]


Philadelphia
George W. Jacobs & Company
Copyright, 1903, by
George W. Jacobs & Company
Published, October, 1903


CONTENTS


    I.  THE JOURNEY TO FLORIDA
   II.  THE NEW HOME
  III.  BETH'S FIRST FISHING LESSON
   IV.  VISITING
    V.  WALKING ON STILTS
   VI.  HOUSE BUILDING
  VII.  BETH'S NEW PLAYFELLOW
 VIII.  LEARNING TO SWIM
   IX.  THE LITTLE DRESSMAKER
    X.  THE HORSE RACE
   XI.  DON MEETS A SAD FATE
  XII.  THE ARRIVAL OF DUKE
 XIII.  ANXIOUS HOURS
  XIV.  THE RESCUE


ILLUSTRATIONS


   The Little Florida Lady . . . . . . _Frontispiece_

   Beth Thought a Cotton Field a Pretty Sight [missing from book]

   Beth's New Home [missing from book]

   Maggie, a Typical Old-Time Mammy

   Laura Corner in the Treasured Easter Hat

   Harvey [missing from book]

   "The Cutest Things Yon Ever Saw"

   January with His Perpetual Laugh and Fiddle

   The Darkies' Quarters


A Little Florida Lady

CHAPTER I

The Journey to Florida.

New York was in the throes of a blizzard.  The wind howled and
shrieked, heralding the approach of March, the Wind King's month of the
year.  Mrs. Davenport stood at a second story window of a room of the
Gilsey House, and looked down idly on the bleak thoroughfare.  She was
a young-looking woman for her thirty-five years, and had an extremely
sweet face, denoting kindliness of heart.

The hall door opened, and Elizabeth Davenport entered, carrying in her
arms a little ball of fluffy gray.

Elizabeth, or Beth, as she was more commonly called at the age of
seven, might have been compared to a good fairy had she not been so
plump.  She almost always radiated sunshine, and her face was generally
lighted with a smile, the outcome of a warm heart.  Sometimes clouds
slightly dimmed the sunshine, but they always proved to be summer
clouds that quickly passed.  Her face was now flushed, and her eyes
sparkled.

Mrs. Davenport turned, and smiled in greeting, but, at the same time,
brushed a tear from her eye.

"Why, mamma, dear, what's the matter?" cried Beth.

Mrs. Davenport's eyes filled, but she bravely smiled.  "I'm a little
unhappy over leaving all our friends, Beth.  Florida seems very far
away."

"I wouldn't be unhappy."

"How would you help it, dearie?"

"Why mamma," she answered triumphantly after a second's thought, "there
are so many pleasant things to think about that I just never think of
the unpleasant ones," and her face broke into a smile, so cheery that
Mrs. Davenport's heart lightened.

"Mamma," she continued, "it's very easy for me to be happy.  Every one
is so good to me.  The chambermaid just gave me this dear, dear kitty.
Isn't it too cute for anything?  I mean to take it to Florida with me."

"Why, Beth, that would never do."

Beth was about to demur, when a door into an adjoining room opened, and
Mr. Davenport called:

"Mary, come here a minute, please."

Mrs. Davenport hastened to answer the call.  She was hardly out of the
room before Beth rushed to an open trunk.  Impatiently, she began
pulling things out.  She burrowed almost to the very bottom.  Lastly,
she took out a skirt of her mother's, and wrapped something very
carefully in it.

The door into the adjoining room creaked.  Beth blushed scarlet, and
dropped the bundle into the trunk.  Then as no one came, she threw the
other articles pell-mell on top of the bundle, and scampered guiltily
to the other end of the room.  Not an instant too soon to escape
immediate detection, for Mrs. Davenport reëntered the room, followed by
a girl of thirteen.  This was Marian, Beth's sister.  The two girls
were totally unlike both in looks and in disposition.  Marian was a
tall blonde, and slight for her age.  She had quiet, gentle ways.

"Mother, here's my red dress on the floor," she said, picking it up
near the trunk.

"Beth, what have you been doing?"

Beth kept her blushing, telltale face turned from her mother, and did
not answer.  Without another word, Mrs. Davenport went to the trunk,
and began smoothing things out.

"I declare, there's something alive in here," and she drew out a poor,
half smothered kitten.

"I think you might let her go in the trunk," cried Beth, aggrieved.

"Child, it would kill the poor kitty.  Marian, you take it back to the
chambermaid."  Marian left the room with it, and Beth began to pout,
whereupon Mrs. Davenport said:

"Beth, you are so set upon having your own way, I hardly know what to
do with you."

Immediately Beth's pouting gave place to a mischievous smile.  "You'd
better call in a policeman, and have me taken away."

Mrs. Davenport smiled too.  "So my little girl remembers the policeman,
does she?  I was at my wits' end to know how to manage you when I
thought of him.  Even as a little bit of a thing, you would laugh
instead of cry, if I punished you with a whipping."

"Well, I was afraid of the policeman, anyway.  I thought you really
meant it when you said I was a naughty child, and not your nice Beth,
and that the policeman would take the naughty child away."

"It worked like magic," said Mrs. Davenport.  "You stopped crying
almost immediately, and held out towards me a red dress of which you
were very proud, and cried, 'I'm your Beth.  Don't you know my pretty
red dress?  Don't you see my curls?'"  She sat down, having finished
straightening out the trunk, and Beth crept up into her mother's lap.

"Beth, do you remember one night when you were ready for bed in your
little canton-flannel night-drawers, that you lost your temper over
some trifling matter?  You danced up and down, yelling, 'I won't.  I
won't.'  I could hardly keep from laughing.  My young spitfire looked
very funny capering around and around, her long curls rumpled about her
determined, flushed face, and her feet not still an instant in her
flapping night-drawers.  Many and many a time you escaped punishment,
Beth, because you were so very comical even in your naughtiness."

"I remember that night well," answered Beth.  "You said, 'There, that
bad girl has come back.  Even though it's night, she'll have to go.'"

"And," interrupted Mrs. Davenport, "you threw yourself into my arms,
crying, 'Mamma, whip me, but don't send me away.'  I knew better than
to whip you, but I punished you by not kissing you good-night."

"And I cried myself to sleep," put in Beth, snuggling more closely to
her mother.  "I thought I must be very naughty not to get my usual
good-night kiss.  I do try to be good, but it's very hard work
sometimes.  But I'll get the better of the bad girl, I'll leave her
here in New York, so she won't bother you in Florida."----

Just then Mr. Davenport entered the room.  He was a tall, dark man with
a very kindly face.

"I think the snow is not deep enough to detain the trains," he said.
"It's time for us to start.  The porter is here to take the trunks."

"We'll be ready in a moment," answered his wife.  "I fear we'll find it
very disagreeable driving to the station."

And, in truth, outside the weather proved bitterly cold.  The wind
swept with blinding power up the now mostly deserted thoroughfare.  The
Davenports were glad of the shelter of the carriage which carried them
swiftly along the icy pavement.  Mrs. Davenport drew her furs around
her, while the children snuggled together.

"I'm glad we're going, aren't you, Marian?" asked Beth, as they
descended from the carriage at the station.

"I guess so," answered Marian doubtfully, remembering the friends she
was leaving behind, perhaps forever.

Not yet! Not yet! (He has pulled the dagger and pushes him to the
stranger in the chest.)

The stranger (on the bridge falling down). Bloody! Bloody! Black Day!
Rustan (of the amount herankommen). Zanga! Zanga! Lives he? Am I?
Zanga. Lord, You are! And see, he bleeds. Rustan. Oh, that's me done!
Horror! The stranger (half emporgerichtet). Childhood! Childhood!
Follow the funeral bier innocence! (Zurücksinkend.) Rustan! Rustan!
Mirza, Rustan! Rustan. Zanga, fast! Look, whether or rescue, it can still
help. Hurry!

The stranger (who is on death struggle on the bridge gewälzt, now falls
in the flood). Zanga. Lord, too late!

He has the flood. (At Rustan, who hands face beaten off.) Bad enough,
but still good.

If he does not, you were lost. Rustan.

Oh, and about "I never was born! (Hörnerschall.) Zanga. Lord, just
text! Text! Courage!

Case of defense .-- Listen, you call us. Look, you come from. Now
endured! A eunuch (coming from the left side). Lord, the king's high
grace to let you return invite, And the army soon. They themselves (The
King and Gülnare appear in the background on the hill, to the right of
the bridge. ) King.

Well, Rustan, follows her? Rustan. High Lord, I am ready. (To Zanga.)
Now's fall, or win!

Ausgedauert and - silence! (As he turns to go, and the horns of a new
sound , the curtain falls.) Third Lift (Open Square in Samarkand. The
first scenes of the fore form a tent-like Estrade, whose rear
curtains are open.

On the right is a sofa cushions appropriate, with a top canopy,
with a backward-hanging drapery adorned.

In addition, a little table. Compared to the left a larger table,
dunkelrotbehangen. The square outside is popular with both sexes occupied.
Jubelruf, martial music, lifts troops.) nation. healing the winner!
- healing the king!

Rustan! Rustan - High Gülnare! (The King comes to both sides and Rustan
Gülnare leader's hand.

Reichgekleidete large behind him. They go in the rooms except the tents
across the stage and on the left.)

Zanga ( by the people coming to those at the entrance of the tent are
available). Platz da! Place! I am from home! (He comes forward.) Well,
by God!

This is great! Our Rustan worked wonders! Kick out of that forest, and
indeed the reputation of the Rings durchschallt the country on all sides.
Lower down the mountains move herders, now for the first time, peoples
without number and degree, the collect, the To be sparking the
rescuers in danger.

And the enemy, he is perplexed, He, the war came to light, seems
to retreat now victory.

Rasch we, and more and more!

are already handle the common Streiter. Since those looks Rustan Khan,
the so proudly done explodes on him - although, as I seem, Is this
just the point to be lagging - Rustan crashes.

Solo, so what! Our peoples, high courage, vision anxious doubts hover
Whether the leader expensive life Urgent after, and - you saw it
not!

Soon no more enemies in the face. So that's issue has, I am myself
newspaper sheets, Black already come to earth, May not only be lying.
Since Rustan comes with the King Tut already refined looks already
proud.

Oh, umgüldet's just a little gem seems to the timber. (The King and Rustan
comment.) King. You listening? you heard? saw you? friendly smile
on your mouth, your speech Sommerfächeln, you felt the pressure
of the hand?

Yes, Gülnare, my daughter, no longer Sinnt resistance. joy, bliss,
but the same!

your hand she wants you rich; And what of the gates of death I myself
zugeschworen And what night yet veiled, Glossy, it's wonderfully
fulfilled.

You know, my daughter side, sitting at the Fathers throne, width
from wide to all Kriegsdrommete With the sound (this country) power
and glory, before the little short days Proud neighbors property.

And they tremble and quake before Dräun the strong hand, And the glory
pillars lift high the throne of Samarkand. Look at this country, it is
yours, see my self, it follows the land, Oh, sel'gen evening of the
notes, as I thee, the rescuers found! (He sits down.) I'm tired,
brings me to drink, even the joy weakens the force. zuzuwinken
Everything seems to me: Do what creates new old. Give me wine, the
tongue lechzet, And closes the tent sleeves.

Delights as they meet me, it has to be happy alone. (Zanga gives the
order. It's about wine. The curtains of the tent fall down.) Rustan.
If also what I did, and really pay full erheischet, Yet so übermäß'ge
Favor - King (stand up).

Let you have the skill, value and extract corpses luck!

Wär's earnings because if the rain Niederträuft on our hallway? Is there
merit, when the leu, Reichbegabt and strong and free Hineilt to track
the game, if the circular nature of the gifts donated wealth,
heedless of who it applies to himself?

Also wants the chance to play. Take what your, and seems too much,
as this too much power you recognize that it is all your records. One
only has to be bericht'gen: Rustan, all that I asked after the
parents, who called you, According to your, your origin, nobody
wants to know the names, and the tribe, the people, the place.

Zanga. Is it but even a small tribes, His breeding herds showed And
since they live nomadic, Come today's, it attracts continue tomorrow.

Rustan. Then, O Lord, if only the geschehn What's clear, Forscht a
lot more behind the How To and the Who?

King. You're right!

and whoever, but are you always the same, my country, my people
free; The horror of that morning of my days remaining salvaged,
whose mute, whose blow That beast succumbed to Grimm.

Are the same, and you're not, And if not, me so much more expensive,
so expensive to me as thy self.

If you so I see before me, tall, strong and bold, with bright, clear
voice, Freu I double and triple me, That you differently when I was
confused in the sense waver, the more a Wahnbild thoughts, my Savior
picture gesehn.

You had seemed small and pale, wrapped in brown coat, And the sharp and
piercing voice - (You can hear the distant murmur of voices, in
between complaining emitted sounds.)

King. What noise? - Look at what is . (There is someone.)'s disgusting
disturbs my speech, And in between action sounds, almost like those -
(At Rustan.) Have you had too, with this all alone? (On the way Zanga.)
Was not a third, there was no else Besides you ? Rustan. Only he and I
did. King. A voice, muffled and scary, the sooner I heard otherwise
in life already heard Schien because in my ear to come, as I was afraid
of bewitches. du Stand at the time - Rustan . O Lord, on rocks. Zanga.
Up, up, on the rocks. king.

Above, right!

The more I sinne, So it's repulsive. On the rocks, small and pale,
wrapped in brown coat, And the voice - (The last claim sounds are
repeated.)

King. Pfui the sound!

Will they continue to ekle voice The memories with her.

(Zanga geht ab.) (A servant has brought wine.)

King. Here is wine. Come, let us drink! Way to wash that image, what
I had dreamed of dull, Lieblich hat's the space cleared enjoyable,
the True.

Where Gods reveal Announces a shiver, that if the Mächt'gen drive
Even the doors opened.

Here is wine. Come, let us drink! And yet this evening should lute and
cymbals Trommeten high towers of these festivals is in the air all
the storm, That you my heir and son.

Yes, you Edler, yes, you are good, protective spirit, life saver, you
will see your Father's drink to thee!

(By the cup, and Rustan emporhebt before he settled on one knee,
Zanga hurry come back, hard behind him a Kämmerling.)

King (compliance). What came to pass? Zanga (at Rustan quiet). Mr.
just courage! King. Should I still expect more -?

Kämmerling. Lord, the city almost in turmoil. König (losing the cup).
riot? Folly! And why? Kämmerling.

Lord, the waves of the Tschihun, The gnaw on our walls, have on the
flat sand, one man's body taken by the end of his murder took
place. King.

Let them complain to the judges! Kämmerling. And the man who he was
recognized as the same with that, The, from your Kämmrer crowds, you
never know the reason, you vorlängst Court banned. king. Well, I
know .-- But these sounds? schaurig, unlawful, garbled sound -?
Kämmerling. Sir, it is his old father, you know, the silent man, a
script in his hands, he prays to court you. king. well, it was
him, but he be silent!

Rustan! Rustan. Lord! King .

You can never test Those man who killed now?

Rustan. Lord, so do you -? King. Well, only good. But the voice, whose
sound then my ears pierced, when you freed me when hunting, Schien
of the Man who is now dead. It comes closer, grows in space, like
a dream halbvergeßner.

And who complains to you as the perpetrator? Kämmerling. Mr. -
King. zögerst You? Kämmerling.

Wag I? King. Say! Wen zeiht one of the murder ? Kämmerling. you! King.
Me? Ha foolishness and betrayal!

Not only lacks a sense of the old, all missing in action.

(The curtains apart hitting.)

Come in, thou man of folly, to mute the tongue, to understand and prove
your claims, or die by my hand ! (The old Caleb, gray dress, with black
cap, white beard and hair, meets from Karkhan who hold up a font,
and throws himself down before the Kings, where he, according to
the type of dumb, inarticulate sounds ausstößt.)

King. Do not touch my clothes, until you withdraw enough. Zanga
(softly). Lord, what you seem? Rustan. Harr and silent! Zanga. This
man I saw earlier. Is not he -? Rustan. Whether too! Who ever! Let us
hear what he brings. King (the Old emporgereicht has a font). What
should I do with these lines? Anger swells in my eye hot.

(At the leader of the old.) Are you one of da knows? Karkhan. His home,
closely related. king. Now, say what you know. Karkhan. What you
say, not what I mean. Those dead, you know, we found notes in the
evening, a dagger in his chest. And the dagger - it was yours. King.

My dagger? How?

(Half-pulling his dagger.)

Here is my dagger. Karkhan. Those dagger that you used when hunting
in the belt to wear, and also contributed to that era, as a miracle
you exemption.

King (at Rustan kicking, halblaut ). Rustan, I gave you the dagger,
the madness in my hand the threat was eliminated.

Bring him here! Give me it back!

You bleach you? - Rustan! Rustan!

That man, whom she described by Ward expelled me from the farm,
because his costume, naughty mind, stood up to my child.

So because your rival! Rustan! Rustan! And the voice, the voice of that
cliff, and now appears, bright and awake, you like that man voice,
only now, the murderer of Grimme, succumbed to unknown death. Rustan,
give me back the steel.

(Laut.) War's a dagger with green stones? Karkhan. reception rich with
emeralds, deep in the bosom intractable, where he soaked grass
together the brown coat. king. brown jacket?

- Stand on the rock ribbed and gaunt - du Stand sideways. Above it,
and shot - Who met?

Rustan, Rustan - Say no now! Not a word that you gereuet.

I want out, the dead shall see, after you like daggers go. Age, success!
and follow it!

(at Rustan kicking.) On! dispel this cloud! Rechtfert'gung Because
we owe, I, the Lord, the whole nation, you, the son and citizen, me.

(He goes by Caleb and his entourage accompanied ab.) Zanga.

Lord, what now? Rustan . That you ask me?

you who else knew so superabundant resources, tricks, scheming, The
led me up to here, torn from home, I am the dice was to take the happiness
wrong game? His tongue Schmeichel According to I, a foolish familiar
; with the lies and denial with Me tempts me to communicate what
someone else did; Abgelockt me from the train, from the flat,
straight, from golden paths of glory.

Zanga. leveling paths? Beautiful madness! Oh, forgive too much
grace, I can almost laugh at: Wackre Faust and conveying simple
mind and bring even more, about to 'its tail riders, one captain
suppose mostly, with Lets halbzerschoßnen bone Magre grace soups
cook.

But who it further, to accumulate donations to happiness, even
if the foot remains, Let him only turn the steps.

I presents' you with a jerk, Sei's in good, it's in bad, on top of
the mountain slope, whose center-to-climb You need a lifetime.

Rustan. And now the sinking yawns! Zanga.

Pah! and what is lost? If your not the snake schlugt, but have you
beaten the enemy, all their days künft'gen brought salvation and
security.

Have you not the army for you? escapes you in their ranks, The
daring you followed the dispute; Mag then this king dräuen, And
who knows who else gebeut.

Lord, only courage! There I see two of the leaders of our army. How
they are lurking! how they spähn! Stay here and just waiting for the
things I want to check times they go. (He goes to the background to
the semicircle of people, who are left behind.)

Rustan. Folg I give him?

I use the opportunity to quickly escape? shameful! Low! Greulich!
Greulich,! Not that I killed the man. Have I given him the death, War's,
defending my life, War's because of that bridge path, narrow and
moving well enough, only one of them wore.'

s War, because he and his gift'gem mockery lurking Indeed hid, And
the hand only after the wage, the already gegebnen, stretched. Was
it because - I must say it's because I have two heads and wear,
And this country is a crown '.

It happened. Alone, if not, stalls, compared with his perfidy, Now I
am on the bridge Schauer, It happens now, as there. But that,
according durchfochtnem war As my star rose to the crest, I, sued,
should answer on such a low life, this comforted me not a victory.

Oh, hätt 'I hätt o' you, I never leave home roof, And the Taumelpfad
enter the worry after wind. Had I never shimmer With the Voice of the
Interior paid value, and that the hope Gaukelbild Fern fog on basic
gemalt . Wär "I stayed at home there, where a judge nor the heart, Where
no love without costumes, no failure without pain!

Ha, but still!

let it back, What I anbeut the skill?

This city streets with noisy, one empire princely happiness?

Wornach hot getrachtet my desire, body adhesive, really, look at me
And when's the hand grip umnachtet me gaukelhafter delusion? Standen
prehistoric heroes do not often train on the same doubts? Do's! let
the spirit and courage to listen, Tu's nicht! she cried to the heart,
And she could beguile, To Zaudrer's done, Or did it, and now we
swear to what they did.

I will wait, I want to stay, yawned widely death Schlund; And who's
daring me to distribute stand firmly on its base.

(In an opening of the semicircle, which in the distance the human form
is visible Zanga.) Rustan . Zanga! Zanga! Zanga (comes forward
from a graugekleideten old woman followed, which carries a cup). Fort,
thou witch! The Old. Zanga, come!

Give's your Lord! Zanga. Leave me! Leave me! The Old. Böser servant!
You do not care to see your Lord? Rustan. What is this? Zanga. I do
it myself?

They pursued me with the cup, Call's a means identifies's medicine. The
old woman. Pharmacopoeia well! You wicked servant! Take it, give
your Lord's! Zanga. Let me, let! Rustan. Who sends them? The Old.

I myself, my beautiful Lord, You're sick, see that I learned -
Rustan. Krank • The elderly. Oh, son! Worrying sick! How smoulders thy
wild dark eyes, How gichterisch twitches of the mouth! Give me
a hand, the rich poor, And I thy indicates fever.

Rustan. Laß! The Old. Well ill! (contagious) sick!

One died already, you is approaching, he is outside on the sand. And the
king also probably afraid that your evil take him, why he waits, is
with intent, Will you time, my Söhnlein, type, To escape, to
entfliehn.

Rustan. Zanga! The Old. Now! Only not despondent!

Look, my son, here is a means to see the glimmernd schäum'gen juice.
Scarcely he wets your lips, the surf ebbend falls down, loosen the
tired limbs, the pain Quiet cease the day, then Zürn who may be
angry!

Rustan. Greulich! Greulich! Old. Oh, I see well, you drank the sight
of frightened, because he did so brausend hisses.

Oh, that there is one that defines itself, how the enthusiasm of
youth. Also, my son, in wine poured Does a drop as the whole. Here
is wine. Ha, and the cups, Look! how he is like my own here.
Well, I mix the drink yourself. (It is near the little table beside
the bed rest, on which stands the king's cup.) Rustan (they touch).
Halt! - And Zanga!

- Run the Let the curtain of the tent curtain down!

(Zanga pulls the curtain, he agrees.) The elderly. Hi, hi, hi!

Why the curtain?

Why blankets and sleeves because, if we just meet right?

Oh, you probably want to drink, but also that you forced yourself!

Egg, no one forced me, son! Rich offering my gifts, Who it takes the
mag they have.

And so I make out the cup, The excites you, and scare you. If
your evil, Söhnlein, worse, you know what you healing of war. But not
only bound to you, others also helps this potion power quickly
the sick health, the health admittedly ill. (It has the cup on the left
table asked.) Well, my Söhnlein, God ordered!

Without farewell, no thanks! Rustan (with lowered head sinnend in the
fore confessed now goes up and summarizes the) Old apply). Stop! and
take back the cup, take him back, your drink!

(He takes the table on the right cup and pushes it to the Old in
the hand.) The elderly. Hi, hi, hi! Have you sold out!

There, he, the noble drink. This here is the juice of grapes. (She
drinks.) As the Labtest - such as the refreshed! (The inverted cup.)

Blank and - Nu, to thee Heal! And the cup as a reward to me. (She puts
the cup in her robe.) Wohlgemut, my son more expensive. Not the hand
before the eyes beaten, what comes to you, which you must carry a
corpse on the throne. Are now master of your destiny, speak a word in
the Council of the spirits, wear your own lot of them. Horch!

to come.

Now, I want to go.

Safely! You shall see me not. Whether all equal to me beg, but
each Scheut my face. Sieh then open a column in a thin wall of the
tent, enough room for an old woman. Well, my son, the future Walte! Luck,
determination, intellect! (It limps after the right side of the tent and
pulls behind the neck of the bed where the back rest, looks again, the
curtains lift, and will not be seen again.)

Rustan. Look! where she came out, the old woman? Zanga.

Lord, I do not know. They vanished.'s War there by the cloak column
War's - to me it remains undetected. Rustan. Hush, and give the cloth.
(On a dark red cloth showing the Zanga loosely around the neck slung
bears.) Zanga. The cloth? Rustan . Well, the cloth - for free - and now
silent! (He has the dark red cloth on the table gleichbehangenen and
left it standing cup gebreitet banger and is in expectation.) (The
curtains of the tent to do so. The king occurs behind him Caleb, Karkhan
and two companions.)

King. You still here? Rustan. Where else, my king? King. Well, I thought
you removed. Is it another.

(to Caleb.) you just stay! (The entourage moves away, the curtains
of the tent will be closed.)
However, she put her fingers into her ears,
and ran on.  But, she did not escape temptation thus.  Countless beds
of roses, of geraniums, and of many other flowers tempted her to
linger, and gather the fragrant blossoms, but, still she did not
succumb, for there was greater beauty ahead.  She beheld a lovely
avenue formed of orange trees and red and white oleanders trimmed to a
perfect archway.  The winter had been a mild one.  Not only did
luscious ripe oranges cling to the trees, but green fruit was forming,
and there was, also, a wealth of fragrant blossoms.  The oleanders,
too, were coming into bloom.

Beth stopped for a moment to draw in some of the wonderful fragrance
that filled the air.  No perfume is more delightful than that of orange
blossoms in their native grove.  The fruit, too, looks more tempting on
the trees.  The glistening green leaves are just the right setting for
the golden yellow balls.  Beth wished to stop and eat some of the
fruit, but again she proved firm.  She ran on and on under the shade of
the archway that extended a quarter of a mile at the very least.  She
ran so fast that her breath shortened and her cheeks flamed.

At the end of the avenue was an arch of stone covered with climbing
Cherokees spread in wild confusion.  Beth did not stop to gather any of
the pure, fragrant blossoms, for right in front of the arch was a wharf
leading out on the beautiful St. Johns.  The river was from one to two
miles wide at this point.  It glistened and rippled under the brilliant
sunshine.  As Beth ran out on the wharf, she thought she had never seen
a sight more charming.

The wharf extended far out into the river, and near the end of it, Beth
came suddenly upon a boy with a loaf of bread in his hand.  She stopped
undecided, and looked at the boy.  He was, perhaps, three or four years
older than Beth.  His hair was as light as hers was dark.  His eyes
were blue, and his naturally fair skin was tanned.  He looked up at
Beth for an instant, and frowned.

"What are you doing here, little un?  I don't like girls to bother me.
Go away."

If there was one thing above another that made Beth's temper rise, it
was to be called "little one," and to be twitted upon being a girl.
She felt like making up a face at this boy, but, instead, she assumed
as much dignity as she could command.

"I won't go away.  This is my place.  What are you doing here?"

The boy laughed incredulously.  "Your place, indeed.  The Marlowes own
this place, and they are away.  Good-bye."

This was too much for her.  She stamped her foot in rage.  "I won't go.
My papa bought this place to-day."

He looked a little interested.  "Indeed?  What's your name?"

"Elizabeth Davenport;" she said 'Elizabeth' to be dignified, "and
really my father owns the place."

"If what you say is so, I'd better go," he said somewhat sheepishly.

She relented.  "Oh, I'll let you stay."

"I'm not sure I want to.  I don't like girls.  They're 'fraid-cats."

"I'm no 'fraid-cat," and her eyes snapped.

"How can you prove it, Elizabeth?"

"Don't call me that.  I hate to be called Elizabeth."

"But you told me that was your name."

"Everybody calls me Beth.  If you're nice, you may call me Beth."

"All right.  How are you going to prove you're no 'fraid-cat,
Eli--Beth?"

She pondered a moment.  "'Fraid-cats cry when they're hurt, don't they?"

"Of course.  So do girls."

"I don't cry when I'm hurt," and she looked triumphant as if that
settled the matter.  "Once when I was a little bit of a girl----"

"You're pretty small now."

"I'm a big girl, and you shouldn't interrupt.  Well, once Marian----"

"Who's she?"

"She's my sister.  Well, I wanted to light the gas, but Marian said I
was too small, but I'd not listen.  I jumped up on a rocker to light
the gas.  The chair rocked and, I fell against the windowsill.  Marian
screamed, 'Beth's killed.  She's covered with blood!'"

"Were you really?"

"Yes."  Beth felt she was arguing her case well.  "Mamma thought I just
had the nose bleed, but what do you s'pose?  I had two mouths."

The boy's eyes grew big.  "Two mouths--how jolly.  How did it happen?"

"The window-sill had cut me right across here," she pointed to the
space just below her nose.  "The doctor took five stitches, and when it
healed, took them out again.  It hurt very much, but I didn't cry a
bit."

"Didn't it leave a scar on your face?"

She threw back her head.

"There, do you see that little white line under my nose?  You can
hardly see it now."

The boy examined the spot critically.  Then he changed the subject.
"Where did you live before you came here?"

"New York."

"Did you like it there?"

"No, it was horrid.  I hated to be dressed up and sent for a walk."

He looked incredulous.  "Most girls like to be dressed up."

"I don't."

"Don't you like to be told you are a pretty little girl with nice
clothes?"

"No, I don't."

He sniffed disdainfully.  "Oh, go long.  I don't believe that."

Beth grew very much in earnest, and thought of another little
illustration.

"Truth 'pon honor.  One day a strange lady in a store put her hand on
my head, and said: 'What a pretty little girl.'  It made me mad, so
that I just grunted and made up a face at her.  My mamma said, 'Why,
Beth, that is very naughty.'  I said, 'Well, mamma, what business is it
of hers whether I am pretty or not?  It isn't my fault if I am pretty
and people shouldn't bother me.'"

The boy laughed.  "I believe I rather like you, Beth, but I only have
your word for it that you are not like other girls.  I have a big mind
to try you.  Shall I?"

She was a little afraid to consent, but she was ashamed to show it.  So
she delayed matters by asking "How?"

The boy drew down his face until it was very long, and when he spoke it
was in an awe-inspiring whisper.

"Swear never to tell what I tell you.  Repeat after me, 'Harvey
Baker----'"

"Is that your name?"

"Yes--don't interrupt me.  'Harvey Baker, if I tell what you show me, I
hope I may be forever doomed and tortured.'"

Beth looked shocked.  "I won't say that."

"'Fraid-cat.  'Fraid-cat."

Again she stamped her foot.  "I won't be called that.  It's not true.
I will promise not to tell.  Can't you believe me?"

The boy considered.  "Girls are hardly ever to be trusted, but I'll try
you.  In this river there is a great, big, black animal that hates
fraid-cats as much as I do.  He eats them up.  Why, he has such fierce
jaws and sharp teeth that he could gobble up a little girl like you in
one mouthful."

Beth felt that her hair must be standing up on end.  She would have run
away, had not pride detained her--and then the recital rather
fascinated her.  Harvey continued, relishing the effect of his story:

"Now I have only to whistle to have the awful animal appear.  His head
will slowly rise above the water.  His jaws will open.  His teeth will
gleam.  If any little girl cries, he will snap at her, and it will be
good-bye girl.  Now, if you are not a fraid-cat you'll say, 'Harvey
Baker, whistle.'"

She wanted to run more than ever, but instead she repeated slowly:

"Harvey Baker, whistle."

The boy pursed up his lips, but he then made an impressive pause, and
finally pointed his finger at Beth.

"Elizabeth Davenport, remember.  If you give the least little bit of a
cry, you die.  But, if you keep perfectly still, and never tell what
you see, I am your friend for life."  Thereupon he whistled very
shrilly.

Beth's eyes were glued upon the water.  Every little ripple seemed to
her excited imagination an awful head rising to gobble her up.
However, nothing appeared.  Beth gave a sigh of relief.

"Harvey Baker, you were fooling."

He motioned to her to be silent.  Again, he whistled.  Still no
horrible head appeared.  Beth was now fully convinced that he was only
making believe, but still she could not take her eyes off the water.

For the third time, Harvey whistled.  Suddenly the waters parted.
There, right below them, was a head more fearful than anything Beth had
imagined.  There was no doubt of the reality of this fearful
apparition.  The jaws and teeth that Harvey had spoken about were even
worse than he had predicted.  Slowly, slowly, those loathsome jaws
parted.  Beth looked down into that awful gulf, like a great dark pit,
opening to receive her.  There were the two rows of gleaming white
teeth ready to devour girls who screamed.  How she kept from screaming
she never knew.  Perhaps she was too much paralyzed with fear.
However, she kept so still that she hardly breathed.  The color ebbed
out of her face.

Harvey picked up some meat that lay on the wharf beside him, and threw
that and the bread into the waiting mouth below.  The jaws snapped
together, and opened again as suddenly.

Beth shuddered a little, involuntarily.  She wondered if she would have
disappeared as quickly as the meat if she had screamed.

Harvey had no more food for the animal below.  It waited an instant,
then slowly sank.  The waters closed where the head had been.  Beth
felt as though she were wakening from a horrible nightmare.

"Three cheers for Beth," cried Harvey so unexpectedly that she gave a
great start.

"Was it a dragon?" asked Beth with her eyes unnaturally big.

He laughed.  "A dragon----  No, indeed.  It's only a 'gator."

"A 'gator----  Would it really have eaten me if I had screamed?"

"It might, although I said that to try you.  They do say, though, that
'gators sometimes eat pickaninnies.  The Northerners who come down here
winters are killing off the 'gators pretty fast, so the pickaninnies
are likely to live.  Now mind, Beth, don't say a word about my 'gator.
You see if my folks heard about it, they might put a stop to my feeding
it.  They don't think 'gators as nice as I do."

"I think they are just horrid."

Harvey laughed.  "Oh, you'll like them in time."

She had her doubts about ever being fond of such pets, but did not say
so.

"I can't whistle, but would it come if I could whistle, Harvey?"

He looked very superior.  "No, indeed.  It won't come for any one but
me."

"How did you get it to come for you?"

"Well, you see, I used to watch that 'gator in the river; then began
bringing food for it.  I reckon it thought that an easy way to live,
and it soon grew to know me.  Then it learned my whistle.  That's all."

Beth now remembered that her half hour must be more than over.

"Harvey, I must go.  Good-bye."

"Wait a minute.  I say, I really like you, and will teach you how to
fish some day."

This was the greatest compliment he could pay her, for he was an expert
angler, and had never allowed a girl to share in the sport with him.
Such an invitation as he had just extended surprised even himself, but
he actually hoped that it would be accepted.  He even decided to set a
definite time.

"Come here--well, say Monday afternoon between four and five."

"I'll come if mamma will let me."

"Remember, you mustn't tell any one about the 'gator."

"Not even mamma?"

"No, indeed.  You wouldn't break your word, would you?"

"I never do that."

"You're a trump, Beth.  Good-bye."

She skipped back towards the house, revelling in her adventure now that
it was over.  Being called a trump by Harvey pleased her, but even this
praise only half reconciled her for keeping any secret from her mother.

Halfway up the avenue, a homely, impudent, scraggy little dog, sprang
from among the trees and yelped at Beth.  A ragged little darky
followed.  Beth had never seen any human being quite so ragged.

"Come 'way, Fritz.  What yo' mean by jumpin' on de missy?"

Beth eyed doubtfully both the dog and his master.  The latter looked at
her reassuringly.

"Yo' needn't be 'fraid, missy.  I won't let Fritz hurt yo'."

"I--afraid--of him!  He don't look as if he could harm anything," and
Beth laughed.

The boy appeared grieved.

"Really, missy, he's a wonderful dog.  I'll show yo' what he can do.
Come, Fritz, dance for missy."

The ragged leader held up a warning finger.  Fritz wagged his stubby
tail, but did not budge.

"Come, come, Fritz.  Dance for de missy."

Fritz wagged his stubby tail more vigorously, but gave no other
response.  The boy looked wise.

"He's bashful, missy, jes' like me.  Perhaps, if I whipped him like my
mother whips me----"

"Does she whip you?"

"Yes, 'deed she does--if she kotches me," added the boy laughingly.
"If I'd whip Fritz, he'd dance, but I likes him too well to whip him."

Beth liked all dogs, with or without pedigree, and said warmly:

"I wouldn't whip him either, but it's too bad he won't dance.  I'd
really like to see him."

Again the boy said coaxingly, "Fritz, do dance," but the dog was not to
be coaxed.

The boy frowned.  "Yo'll think he can't dance, but 'deed he can.
Maybe, if I dance, he'll dance too."

At the word, the ragged pickaninny began whistling, and then he capered
around and around performing some wonderful steps.  Whereupon Fritz
began to bark and caught at his master's heels.

"Stop, Fritz, stop," but the dog would not heed, and so the dancing
came to a sudden stand-still.

The pickaninny cocked his head on one side and whispered to Beth:

"He's out of sorts with me.  I'm disgraced in his sight.  He can dance
so much bettah 'n me."

"Can he really?"

"Oh, a hundred times bettah."

"He must be a wonderful dog"--Beth was about to add, "Although he
doesn't look it," and then desisted out of consideration for the dog's
master.

"He's mighty smart.  Why, 'less yo'd see all the tricks he does, yo'd
never believe dem.  Besides dancin', he jumps the rope, plays ball,
says his prayers, gives his paw, jumps that high yo' wouldn't b'lieve
it possible, rolls over----"

"What kind of dog is he?"

The boy scratched his head.  "Well, missy, I can't jes' 'xactly say."

"If he is so very wonderful, you ought to know."

The boy was nonplused for a moment.  Then he declared triumphantly;
"Angels am very wonderful, ain't they?  But yo' can't say 'xactly what
they am."

Beth had not been much impressed by the dog, but now she began to feel
astounded that she had had so little discernment.

"I'd like to own such a dog," she said.

"I'd give him to yo', only I couldn't spare him.  Fritz never goes any
place widout me.  But, I'll tell yo' what: I'll let yo' play with him
when yo' want to."

"Do you work for us?"

Again the boy laughed.  "I work for yo'?  No, 'deed; I'se too no 'count
to work for the likes of yo'.  I wuz jes' cuttin' 'cross fields through
yo'r yard.  If Titus found me here, he'd kick me an' Fritz out."

"What is your name?"

"Caesar Augustus Jones, but they calls me Gustus.  I wish I could work
for yo'."

Beth pondered a moment.  "If you did, would you keep Fritz here?"

Gustus caught the trend of her thoughts.  His eyes sparkled and his
teeth gleamed.

"Me and Fritz 'd stay all the time--nights, too, if yo' wanted."

"I'll ask papa.  He'll take you to please me, I know.  Come on."

Gustus hung back, and his face sobered.

"Why, what's the matter?"

"Titus 'll kick me."

"I won't let him.  Come on."

Thus encouraged, Gustus and Fritz followed her as she ran to the front
steps, and on into a large old-fashioned hall.  She stopped,
momentarily, to peek into rooms on either side.  There were two
apartments on the right.  She afterwards learned that they were parlor
and library.  On the left was one spacious room designed either for a
sitting-room or a bedroom.

At the end of the hall was the dining-room, running two-thirds of the
way across the house.  To Beth's surprise, she found the table unset,
and no one within.  She feared she had missed luncheon.  Chancing,
however, to look out through an open door, she immediately gave a
little cry of delight, for she beheld Mr. and Mrs. Davenport and Marian
seated at a table on the roomy piazza that ran between the dining-room
and the kitchen.

Beth seized Gustus by the hand and drew him towards the family party.
Fritz bounded and yelped at their heels.  His cries attracted the
attention of the occupants of the piazza.

"Why, Elizabeth Davenport, what----"

"Oh, papa, this is Gustus, and I want you to let him work for us.  This
wonderful, wonderful dog is his, and if Gustus works for us, I can have
Fritz to play with."

Beth stopped an instant for breath, which gave some of the others a
chance to speak.

"Mamma, aren't his rags disgraceful?" whispered Marian to her mother.

"James, what shall we do?"

Mr. Davenport addressed the boy.  "Are you looking for work?"

Gustus hung his head, but managed to say:

"Yes, massa, an' little missy 'lowed yo'd hire me and Fritz."

"Oh, papa, please, please hire them.  Fritz is such a very wonderful
dog."

Whereupon Indianna Scott, who was acting as waitress, spoke up:

"Don't yo' b'lieve dat, missy.  Dat dog am nothin' but a no 'count
fice."

Beth had never heard a dog called a fice.  She feared it might be
something very terrible.  Afterwards she learned that it was a Southern
provincialism for a common dog.

"Do you know the boy, Indianna?"

"I know of him, massa.  His paw am dead, an' his maw has a dozen or so
of chilun, an' dey are so pooh dat the maw can't get clothes 'nuff to
cover dem.  Dey say as how dis boy am always braggin' of his dog, and
dat the dog am no 'count."

Gustus lost his hang-dog appearance.  His eyes snapped.

"Dat ain't true.  Fritz kin do all I say, only he's bashful."

Fritz did not appear very bashful, but was capering around Beth.
However, her heart was won, and she cried:

"Anyway, Gustus, you and I love Fritz, don't we?  Dear papa, please,
please keep them."

"What can you do, Gustus?" he asked slowly.

"I--I kin brush flies," cried he exultantly.

"The boy must have some clothes, anyway.  Come with me, and we'll see
what we can do for you," said Mrs. Davenport.

Beth felt that she had won.  In her joy she cried:

"Here, Fritz, you stay with me."

Fritz gladly obeyed.  His hungry little stomach craved some of the
chicken a la Creole which was being passed to Beth.  As she started to
put some of it into her mouth, she felt something pawing her lap.
Fritz was making his wants known.  Needless to say, he got some chicken
from her, and from that time on these two became fast friends.


CHAPTER III

Beth's First Fishing Lesson

On Monday morning, Gustus came to Beth, bringing a cat with three
kittens.  The cat was of only a common breed, but Beth was delighted
with the present.

Gustus was no longer ragged, but he looked very comical.  There had
been no boy's clothes in the house for him, and so Mrs. Davenport had
fitted him out in an old suit of her husband's until another could be
had.  Of course, everything was much too large for Gustus, but he was
as proud as Lucifer.  He strutted up and down before Beth with his
hands in his pockets and Fritz as usual tagging at his heels.

"Missy, I looks like de quality now shure, don't I?" he asked, grinning
from ear to ear; and, not waiting for an answer, he added, "Yo'se been
powerful good to me, missy, an' I'm goin' to give yo' Fritz, too."

Such generosity quite overcame Beth.  "But, Gustus, I couldn't think of
taking him away from you."

"Don't yo' worry, missy," he answered with a chuckle.  "Yo' ain't
takin' him 'way from me.  I'se yo'r niggah now.  Yo' owns Fritz an' me."

Beth hardly knew what to say.  She thought it would be wrong to "own"
Gustus.  Slave days were a thing of the past.  However, his devotion
made her feel self-important.

"Well, Gustus, you must be a good boy," was all she could think to say.

"Yes, 'deed, missy.  Come with me, an' I'll show yo' a bird's nest."

"I can't, Gustus.  Mamma told me I must play indoors unless it clears.
You know she's gone to town with Marian to see about a school for her.
I'm not to go until next winter.

"I went to school once for a little while," she continued presently.
"It happened this way: Marian attended a private school kept by a poor
lady that mamma felt sorry for.  Marian was not well, so mamma let me
go in her place, so the lady wouldn't lose money.  They didn't think
I'd study hard, but, Gustus, I like to know things, and learning to
read was a great help.  So I studied very hard.  Then I was taken very
sick and was out of my head.  I talked about books all the time.  The
doctor said I came near having brain fever, and it wouldn't do for me
to go for awhile.  I don't believe it would hurt me, but that's why I'm
not going to school this year.  Did you ever go to school, Gustus?"

"No, missy; me an' Fritz don't need no larnin'."

"But you do, Gustus, and I'm going to teach you."

He did not look particularly pleased at the offer.  Nevertheless, Beth
put the cat and the kittens down, and started to run for her books.

Bent as usual on mischief, Fritz made a dive and, catching the
prettiest kitten by the neck, started away with it.  The mother cat was
after him in an instant.  Her back was ruffled, and she struck Fritz
with her sharp paw.  He dropped the kitten and ran howling from the
room.  Gustus thought it a good opportunity to escape and started after
Fritz.

"Gustus, come back," called Beth.

He looked crestfallen, but felt in duty bound to do as his little
mistress bade.  She brought her books, and had Gustus sit down beside
her.  Then she tried him with the alphabet.  He proved woefully
ignorant.  After pointing out to him, A, B, and C, many, many times,
she said:

"Show me A, Gustus."

He grinned.  "A what, missy?"

"The letter A, of course, g----"  She almost said "goosie," but thought
in time that such a word would not be dignified for a teacher to use.

She did not find the fun in teaching that she had expected.
Nevertheless, she persevered.  Her face grew flushed as Gustus proved
himself more and more ignorant.

When Mrs. Davenport returned from town, she found Beth at her
self-imposed task.

"Mamma, Gustus ought to go to school."

"I don't wants to go," he cried, his eyes rolling so there was hardly
any black visible in them.

Mrs. Davenport did not press the point.  She intended to talk it over
with her husband.

"Mr. Davenport and I bought these for you," she said, untying a package
and drawing out a suit of boy's clothes, stockings, shoes, and
underwear.

Gustus's pride now passed all bounds.  He let forth a perfect avalanche
of thanks, using large words, the meaning of which he had little idea.
Even young darkies like big-sounding speech.

The morning passed quickly to Beth.  To her delight, towards noon the
sun broke through the clouds.  This reminded her of Harvey Baker's
invitation to fish.

"Mamma, may I go down to the wharf?" she asked immediately after
luncheon.  "Harvey Baker asked me to fish with him.  He's a neighbor's
boy I met Saturday."

"Well, I declare.  Why didn't you tell me before?"

"I forgot."  She had had so many things to think of and talk about,
that she had not thought much about Harvey except at night.  Then that
awful alligator haunted her until she wanted to call her mamma, but she
had not dared because of her promise.

"May I go, mamma?"

"But I do not know anything about him.  He may not be nice at all."

Maggie, who chanced to be present, now spoke up:

"De Bakers am quality, Miss Mary.  I wouldn't be feared to let missy go
wid any Baker.  I'se s'prised, do, dat Harvey axed her, 'cause he don't
like girls.  Are yo' sure, honey, he axed yo'?"

"Of course I am."

"Den yo' needn't fear, Miss Mary.  Harvey's a big boy, and he'll take
good care of her."

With this assurance, Mrs. Davenport gave her consent.

Beth put on her hat and hurried down the avenue to the river.  On the
end of the wharf sat Harvey, holding a fishing pole.  He turned his
head at her approach.

"Hello, Beth.  I hardly expected you.  I thought your mamma might be
'fraid to let you come."

She smiled.  "Maggie said you were 'quality,' and would take care of
me."

Harvey gave a grunt.  "Don't know about quality, but as long as your
mamma trusted me, she shan't repent.  Take this line, and go to
fishing."

He handed one to her and she dropped the end into the water.  Harvey
broke into a hearty laugh.

"You don't 'spect to catch fish without bait, do you?"

She answered meekly: "I s'pose not, but what is bait?"

Harvey laughed harder than ever.  "Well, you are silly."

Beth felt aggrieved over being called silly, but she tried to look
dignified.

"Don't care, you're just as silly as me.  My papa says if people don't
keep quiet, they'll scare all the fish away.  You're laughing awful
loud."

He immediately sobered down.  "True for you, Beth.  It is silly to
laugh and you're a wise girl.  You'll make a good fisher.  Here, I'll
put the bait on for you."

He baited her line and threw it out into deep water for her.

She waited patiently for the fish to bite, but it seemed as if her
patience was to go unrewarded.  She wished for Harvey's good opinion,
and so she did not even speak.  It proved pretty dull work and to make
matters worse, Harvey pulled in a number of fish, while she did not get
even a nibble.

She would have given up in despair had not her pride prevented.  Harvey
felt sorry for her and proved himself magnanimous.

"Beth, the fish are biting lively here.  You take my place--yes, you
must, and I'll go around on the other side."

Matters did not mend for Beth even with the change.  The fish seemed to
follow the boy.  He caught several on the other side of the wharf,
while the patient little fisher maiden waited in vain for the fish to
take pity on her.

Presently, she almost feel asleep, fishing proved so uninteresting.
Then there was a terrible jerk on her line, followed by a steady pull.
Beth was afraid the alligator had swallowed the line, and that she
would be dragged into the river.  Nevertheless, she hung on bravely.

"Harvey, Harvey, come quick.  I can't pull it in.  Come quick."

He rushed to her assistance.  The two children began pulling together.
Harvey's eyes grew almost as big as his companion's.

"Beth, I believe you've caught a whale."

It was a very hard tug for them, but finally something black wiggled
out of the water.  Beth gave a little cry.

"Harvey, it's a snake.  I don't want it, do you?"

His eyes sparkled.  "It's no snake, Beth.  It's an eel and a beauty
too.  My, what a monster!"

"Are you sure it is not a snake?"

"Of course I am.  Darkies call them second cousins to snakes and won't
eat them, but they are fine eating.  My, just see him squirm.  Isn't he
big, though?  You're a brick, Beth, to catch him."

By this time, the eel was safely landed on the wharf, and proved to be
indeed a monster.  It was a wonder that the children had ever been able
to pull him in.  Harvey tried to unhook him, but failed; for just as
the boy thought he had him, the eel would slip away.

"Let's take him up to the house on the line.  I want to show him to
mamma," cried Beth.

"All right, but first we'll fix some lines for crabs."

"What are crabs?"

"My, don't you know?  Well, we'll catch some when we come back and then
you'll see."

He took some lines without hooks and tied raw beef on the ends of them.
Then he threw them into the water.

Beth, as proud as if she had caught a tarpon, took up her line with the
eel on it, and away marched the children to the house.

"Mamma, just see what I caught."

"Well, I declare," cried Mrs. Davenport at sight of the eel.  "Did you
really catch that all by yourself, child?"

"Yes, mamma, except that Harvey had to help me pull it in, or else the
eel would have pulled me into the water.  It tugged awfully hard, but I
wouldn't let go.  Mamma, this is Harvey and we're just having heaps of
fun."  She had forgotten, already, that a few minutes before she
thought she was having a very stupid time.

Harvey raised his cap.  Mrs. Davenport liked the boy's appearance.

"Mamma, you keep the eel to show papa.  Harvey and I are going back to
catch crabs.  Come on, Harvey."

Mrs. Davenport detained them a moment.  "Harvey, you'll take good care
of my little girl, won't you?"

"Yes, ma'am," and back the children scampered to the wharf.

"You see if there is anything on this line, Beth, while I go around to
the other lines.  If there is, call me, and I'll come with the net, and
help you land him."

Away went Harvey.  Beth began pulling in the line.  There, hanging on
the meat with two awful claws, was a great big greenish crab.  His eyes
bulged out, and altogether he looked so fierce that Beth was somewhat
frightened at him, but she wished to surprise Harvey.  Therefore she
overcame her fear, and continued pulling up the line.  For a wonder,
the crab hung on all the way from the water to the wharf.  Beth was
delighted to think she had caught something without Harvey's aid.  Mr.
Crab, however, as soon as he felt himself trapped, let go of the meat,
and began crawling towards the side of the wharf.  Beth saw her prize
vanishing, and made a dive for it.  Up went the crab's claws, and
caught the child by the fingers.  A scream immediately rent the air.

Harvey came running to find the cause of the commotion.  He had to
laugh, notwithstanding tears were streaming down Beth's face.  She
looked so ludicrous, dancing up and down with that awful crab hanging
on like grim death.

"'Beware of the Jabberwock that bites, my child,'" quoted Harvey.

Beth stopped screaming an instant.  "I thought it was a crab."

"So it is.  I was just repeating a line from _Alice in Wonderland_."

While Harvey spoke, he was trying to loosen the crab.  The harder he
pulled, the more angry it grew, and the harder it bit.  Finally, he
pulled so desperately that the crab came, but a claw was left hanging
to poor Beth's finger.

Harvey started to drop the crab.  Again Beth ceased her yelling.

"Harvey, don't you dare let my crab go.  Put it in the basket and then
come and get this awful claw off my finger."

He did as he was bid, secretly admiring his little friend's pluck.
They had a great time getting off the dismembered claw, but, finally,
they succeeded.  Poor Beth's finger was bitten to the bone.  Harvey
really felt very sympathetic, but, boy-like, was somewhat bashful about
expressing it.

"Beth, does it hurt much?" was all he said.

"Pretty bad," she admitted, forcing back the tears.  "Say, Harvey, were
there any other crabs?"

"I had time to look at only two of the lines, I got three crabs from
the two.  There were two on one line, so with yours we have four.  But
never mind the crabs; we must go up to the house and have your finger
dressed."

"No, we must first see if there are any other crabs.  Here, tie my
handkerchief around my finger.  I guess I can stand it awhile."

The handkerchief was tied about the sore finger, and then Beth watched
Harvey while he pulled up the lines.  There were crabs on every one,
and on some of them there were two.  Harvey would pull the crabs to the
surface of the water and then scoop the net under them.  In moving the
crabs from the net to the basket, he held them by the hind legs,
because, in this position, a crab cannot reach around with its claws to
bite.

Altogether, the children caught about fifteen crabs, and they took them
up to the house with them.  Arriving there, they found that Mrs.
Davenport had driven to town to bring home Mr. Davenport and Marian.

Beth therefore went to Maggie about the finger, and Harvey accompanied
her.  Maggie proved very sympathetic.

"Yo' precious little honey, yo'.  Dat finger jes' am awful, but I knows
what'll cure it in no time.  Here, yo', Gustus, yo' run and fetch me
some tar.  Hurry, yo' lazy niggah yo'.  Dar, dar, honey chile, it'll be
all right in no time.  Tar am jes' fine for a sore."

For a wonder, Gustus did hurry and was back in no time with the tar.
Maggie dressed the wound with it very gently and Beth began to feel
easier immediately.

"Now, honey, it'll be all right.  If yo'd only known, and jes' held
yo'r finger with dat crab out over the watah, it 'd have seen its
shadah and gone aftah it."

"Here, Beth," Harvey now said, "you can have all of the crabs; I guess
I'd better go."

"Please don't go, Harvey; I want you to stay.  Say, Harvey, are crabs
good to eat?"

"Of course, they are.  You just put them in water and boil them and
they are dandy."

"Oh, how I wish we could boil them.  Wouldn't papa be surprised?
Maggie, can't we boil them?" and Beth seized the cook's hand and held
it, pressing it coaxingly.

"Law, honey, dar ain't no room on de stove.  I's gettin' de dinnah."

"Please, Maggie, make room," continued Beth, already having learned her
power of persuasion over her new mammy.

"I can't, honey, but I'll tell yo' what.  Yo' an' Harvey kin do it if
he knows how to boil dem."

"Of course, I know how."

"Well, I'll let yo' take dis big iron kettle into de library.  Yo' kin
put de kettle on de fire, dar, an' boil dem."

Beth danced up and down for joy.  "Oh, won't that be fun.  Thank you,
Maggie.  You're a lovely Maggie."

"Dar ain't no hot watah, but I'll take dis cold watah in fur yo', an'
it'll heat in no time."

Maggie carried the kettle, half-filled with water, and placed it
securely, as she thought, on the big open wood-fire in the library.
Then she left the children to their own devices, Fritz alone keeping
them company.  A watched kettle never boils, and the children did not
have the patience to test the truth of this.

"I hate to wait for water to boil," said Beth.

Just then Harvey conceived a brilliant idea.

"Say, Beth, we'll put in the crabs before it begins to boil.  Then we
can play until they're done."

"And the cold water won't hurt them like hot, will it, Harvey?"

Without answering, he emptied the crabs into the kettle.  Beth viewed
them critically.

"There's the horrid old thing that bit me.  I know him by his one claw."

"He shall be the first one eaten to show how mean he was.  What shall
we play?"

"Let's play stage."

He accepted the suggestion, and while they played, Fritz snoozed
comfortably before the fire.

The water began to get hot, and the crabs became lively.  They crawled
around so vigorously that a log slipped and upset the kettle.  There
was a sizzling of water, and, in an instant, fifteen crabs were loose
in the Davenport library.

This avalanche of crabs awakened Fritz, who opened his eyes halfway and
beheld a crab at his very nose.  Perhaps in his sleepiness, he thought
it another kind of kitten ready for a frolic.  At any rate, he put out
his paw towards the crab, which met his advances more than halfway.
With a wild howl, Fritz jumped up on three feet while the crab clung
grimly to the fourth.

"Poor Fritz!  You, too, should beware of the Jabberwock that bites,"
cried Beth from the lounge where she had taken refuge.

Around and around whirled Fritz in a most lively manner.

"Just see him," cried Beth triumphantly.  "Gustus always said he could
dance, and this proves it."

Harvey, who was trying to catch some of the crabs, grunted
disdainfully, but continued his unsuccessful chase without any other
comment.

Fortunately for Fritz, the crab dropped of its own accord, and the
frightened dog tore like a streak of lightning through the house and on
outdoors.

Once Harvey stooped and thought he surely had a crab, when Beth beheld
another crab with claws upstretched right behind.

"Harvey, come here quick," cried Beth; "a crab's going to bite you in
the back."

Thereupon, he, too, jumped upon the lounge to escape the threatening
claws.  Immediately, however, he said:

"Oh, pshaw, it's silly to be afraid of crabs.  I'm going to get down
again."  Beth, however, caught hold of his hand, saying:

"No, I won't let you.  I wish somebody would come to help us.  I'm
going to try to make Maggie hear me.  Maggie.  Maggie."

Back from the kitchen floated the slow tones of Maggie.

"What am it, honey?"

"Maggie, come here, quick."

Then they heard the soft tread of her feet crossing the piazza.

"She's coming, Harvey."

Maggie poked her head through the door and beheld the children upon the
lounge.

"Laws a massy, what am yo' doin' thar, honeys?"

Then she saw the crabs on the floor, and she began to laugh.

Now when Maggie laughed it meant more than ordinary merriment.  Her
eyes rolled and her sides shook.

"Ha, ha, ha.  Oh my, oh me.  Ha, ha, ha.  Well, dis am a sight.  I jes'
'lows I must go to Titus about dis yere.  Ha, ha, ha," and away she
went.

"But, Maggie," cried Beth in protest, "I think you're real mean.  We
want you to help us catch them."

But Maggie paid no attention to the appeal.

The one-clawed crab stopped for a moment in front of the lounge.

"Harvey, he's making fun of us, too,"

"The impudent thing," exclaimed Harvey, jumping down.

By a dexterous move, he captured the crab.

"Don't you come back here with it," commanded Beth.

There was a space free from crabs between Harvey and the window.  He
ran to the window and threw the crab out.

January chanced to be working not far away, and Harvey spied him.

"Come in here quick, January," he cried.  "There are a lot of crabs
after us."

January, for a wonder, came running, and his valor for once proved
remarkable.  He showed no fear of the crabs, and darted around so
quickly that he caught every one in the room.  The one-legged one that
Harvey had thrown out of the window was never found.  Perhaps it made
its way back to the river, and told of its harrowing experiences on
land, and especially how it had lost its claw.

Fritz limped for several days after his experience with the crab and
Beth had a terrible nightmare that night in which crabs were giants
with claws of iron.


CHAPTER IV

Visiting

Beth was seated with Fritz and the kittens in a large Mexican hammock
on the front porch.  She held up a warning finger to her mother who
stood in the doorway.

"Mamma, do not frighten birdie away.  He is not the least bit afraid of
me, and I love to hear him sing."

Mrs. Davenport was surprised to see a mocking bird perched on the
railing directly by the side of Beth.  His little head was cocked
sidewise, and floods of sweet sounds issued from his throat.

His spouse, who was guarding their nest up in the big live oak in the
front yard, trilled her limited paeon of praise.

Beth, who often acted as interpreter for beast and bird, thought the
proud wife-bird meant to say:

"Bravo.  Isn't he the most wonderful tenor that ever lived?  Are you
surprised that I love him so?  He is the best and smartest husband in
all the world."

Fritz and black pussy grew restless.  She spit at him, and he barked at
her.

"Now, my dears, do let me enjoy this beautiful music in peace," Beth
said reprovingly.

Hardly had she spoken, before black pussy sprang away, and Fritz was
after her in an instant.

Beth did not dare follow for fear of frightening away Mr. Mocking Bird,
who stopped singing as cat and dog scampered away, but who had not yet
flown back to his mate.  He was watching fearfully every move of the
frolicsome pair.

Away scurried kitty to the other end of the porch with Fritz a close
second.  Suddenly, she turned, settling down on her back with her claws
out-stretched, ready to receive Fritz.  In an instant he was on her.
Over and over they rolled in their wild play.  Fritz became too rough
to suit puss, and she gave him a sudden dab with her sharp little
claws.  The blow disabled him for a moment, allowing puss to spring
away from him.  She scampered down the steps and towards the big tree
with Fritz again after her.

Mr. Mocking Bird was up in arms in an instant.  How dared the impudent
creatures approach that tree where dwelt his wife and children!  He
flew to the rescue.

Mrs. Mocking Bird, too, had grown so nervous that she, also, left her
young, and joined in the fray.  Together Mr. and Mrs. Mocking Bird
dived and pecked at the cat and the dog in a most ferocious manner.

Beth rushed out, ready to assist the birds, if necessary, but her aid
was not needed.

Black puss and Fritz were so taken by surprise at the fierce onslaught
of the birds that they turned and sneaked away as fast as they could
go.  Thus, through the power of love, the weaker triumphed over the
stronger.  Later on the mocking birds also came out victors in another
contest, and against greater numbers, too.  It happened in this wise:

As the days went by, Beth grew somewhat restless.  She did not exactly
tire of Fritz, puss, and Arabella, but she longed for diversion.  Then
one evening Mr. Davenport brought home a large coop of chickens, and
calling Beth to him, he said:

"You are to tend these, daughter, and hunt eggs every day."

"Oh you dear, good papa.  I want to take one of the sweet things in my
arms."

Thereupon she tried to get a chicken, but somehow, in so doing, she
upset the coop.  Away flurried the chickens in every direction.  Beth
felt ready to cry.

"Never mind," said Mr. Davenport; "when they go to roost to-night, we
can catch them, and put them in the chicken house."

That night, some of the chickens perched on sheds, and some on trees.
A few had the hardihood to fly up on the branches of the live oak in
the front yard.

Mrs. Mocking Bird was just falling asleep in the nest with her young,
and Mr. Mocking Bird was already asleep not far from her side.  The
chickens aroused the mother bird in an instant.

"Dearest," she piped, "I hear a dreadful noise down-stairs.  I think
there must be burglars in the house.  You must go down and see."

Now, every one knows that a man hates to be disturbed from a sound
sleep, and Mr. Mocking Bird proved no exception.

"Oh, birdie," he grumbled, "do leave me alone; you're always imagining
things."

"Imagining things, am I?" she answered shrilly.  "Just hear that awful
noise.  You're so lazy that you would see me and the children murdered
before you'd move.  If you don't want me to think you a coward, you'll
go down this instant.  This instant, I say."

Now Mr. Mocking Bird was, as Mrs. Mocking Bird knew, very brave, and he
also loved her praise.  So he only blinked his eyes once more, and
literally flew down-stairs.  There he spied the chickens settling down
for a good night's rest.  Such impudence aroused his ire.  He did not
hesitate a second, but dived into their midst and pecked furiously at
the poor, unsuspecting intruders.  The chickens, taken utterly by
surprise, fluttered to the ground without offering any resistance.
They cackled so loudly, however, that the noise brought Titus to their
rescue, and he succeeded in capturing the badly frightened hens.

Mr. Mocking Bird, triumphant, ascended to his anxious spouse.

"Dearest," she cried, "you're not hurt, are you?"

"Hurt!" he repeated boastfully, "hurt?  Well, I should say not.  It was
only some upstart chickens who dared to sneak into the house, and I'm
more than a match for any number of such.  I guess we shan't be
disturbed again by chickens or by impudent dogs and cats."

Mr. Mocking Bird proved right in his surmise.  The birds thereafter
enjoyed their home without further intrusion.

Under Beth's care, the chickens flourished finely.  They laid many an
egg which in due time were placed beneath mamma hens.

There was a very proud little girl in the Davenport family when finally
balls of yellow broke through the egg shells.

Then Beth began saving eggs for Easter, and, on Easter Day, she found
that she had enough to give every darky one, besides having all that
were wanted for her own family.

This Eastertide brought new diversions to Beth.  For one thing, she
received an invitation to spend a night in town with a little girl
named Laura Corner.  The Davenports and the Corners had been friends in
the North before the two families moved South.

Beth had never before spent a night away from home.  She thought it
would be a "sperience" to go, and prevailed upon Mrs. Davenport to let
her accept the invitation.

The momentous day arrived at last.  Beth wished to take all her
belongings with her, from Fritz to a small trunk.  She had to be
content, however, with a valise.

Fritz and Arabella were admonished to be good during her absence, and
the chickens were entrusted to Marian's care.

Mrs. Davenport drove Beth to town.  Upon reaching the Corners' home,
Beth's heart sank unaccountably, and she had a hard time to keep the
tears back, when she kissed her mother good-bye.  However, Laura and
the Corners were so very cordial that her spirits soon revived.

In the afternoon several little girls, who had been invited to play,
came in.  Among the number was one who especially attracted Beth.  She
was slight and graceful.  Her hair was golden and her eyes were blue.
Beth, of course, was introduced to all the girls, but did not catch the
name of this one.

"She looks like that picture of the cherub we have at home," decided
Beth.  "I wonder what her name is.  I guess I'll call her 'Cherub' to
myself.  Cherub, you're very pretty, but you're too quiet to be much
fun."

Most of the little girls had their dolls with them; all, in fact,
excepting Beth and the "Cherub."  The latter sat apart from the other
children.  She looked so very demure that Beth thought her bashful, and
took pity on her.  Seating herself beside her, she asked:

"Wouldn't your mamma let you bring your doll?  My mamma thought I had
better not bring mine so far."

The "Cherub" showed little interest in the conversation.  She answered
curtly:

"I haven't a doll."

Beth's eyes opened in surprise.  "You haven't any doll?  What a pity."

Then she hesitated.  She feared the "Cherub" might be too poor to
afford dolls.  She was soon undeceived, however, by the "Cherub"
exclaiming:

"_I_ don't think it a pity.  I don't care for dolls; they're a
nuisance.  I like to play outdoors."

"So do I."

The "Cherub" grew animated.  "Do you?  Say, can you climb trees and
walk on stilts and----"

"What are stilts?"

"Don't you know?"  There was a slight contempt expressed for such
woeful ignorance.  "They are long pieces of wood with places for your
feet up from the ground.  It's just as if you had wooden legs, only
they make you tall so that you feel quite grown up."

"I'd like to walk on stilts."

"Would you?  Where do you live?"

"Out on the old shell road."

"What! are your folks the people who bought the place near us?"

"Do you live on the shell road, too?"  Beth was delighted.  She was
beginning to think the "Cherub" might prove very companionable.

"Yes.  Your name is Beth Davenport, isn't it?  Mine's Julia Gordon.
Say, Beth, I'll come to see you and teach you how to walk on stilts if
you like."

"Will you, really?  When will you come?"

"To-morrow morning."

Beth's face fell.  "Oh, that's a pity.  I shan't be home.  I'm going to
stay here all night."

"Well, never mind.  I'll come the morning after."

"All right, don't forget."

"No, I'll be there right after breakfast."

Games were started at this juncture, and then came refreshments.  Soon
afterwards, the guests took their departure.  The "Cherub" said in
parting:

"We'll have a jolly time with the stilts, Beth.  I've been wanting to
teach somebody for a long time."

Laura and Beth had a merry time together until tea-time.  Then, after
tea, Laura's older sister, Florrie, told them stories.  Beth was simply
fascinated.  She could listen forever, she thought, and not grow weary.
Florrie made her characters live by the magic of her voice and words.

Just before it was time for the children to retire, Florrie took down
the Bible and read a chapter to them.

Then the children went up-stairs to bed.  They had a pillow fight after
they were in their night-dresses.  Sad to relate, in the scuffle, their
clothes were strewn around the room, and Beth carelessly failed to
gather hers together again.

They talked in bed until Mrs. Corner called to them to stop.  Laura
soon fell asleep, but Beth's heart, again, grew heavy.  She missed the
good-night kiss from her mamma, and tears rose to her eyes.  She tried
not to sob for fear of awakening Laura.  Minutes seemed hours to her.
She realized more than ever the depth of her love for her mother, and
she resolved in future to be the best girl alive.  That resolve somehow
quieted her so that she fell asleep and forgot her heartache in
pleasant dreams.  She dreamed that it was the day after the morrow, and
that Julia had come with stilts so high that they touched the clouds.
Beth walked on them without the least difficulty; then, all of a
sudden, she dropped them, and found herself flying with the utmost
ease.  She wondered she had never tried it before; it was so very
delightful to fly.  But, suddenly, the clouds turned into smoke and
fire.  Beth awakened with a start.  The room was very light, as light
as if it was broad daylight.

Beth gave Laura a poke, "Laura, it must be late.  See how light it is."

Laura jumped out of bed, and, running to one of the windows, raised the
curtain.  Both of the children cried out in fright then.  Flames shot
and curled to the very window of their room.  Laura could not tell
whether their house was on fire or not.  She feared so, and the house
next door was one mass of flames.

Beth sprang out of bed, too.

"Mamma, mamma," screamed Laura.  Nobody answered.  "Come quick or we'll
burn."  Still only the crackling of the flames could be heard.

"They've forgotten us," cried Beth with chattering teeth.  "Laura, you
know the way down-stairs, don't you?  Let's go."

"We must dress first," answered Laura.

Beth stamped her foot.  "I'm not going to wait to dress.  Besides, I
don't know where my things are.  Oh, why didn't I mind mamma and put
them away carefully.  Now they'll burn."

The more prudent Laura gathered up her clothes from a chair where she
had laid them, and led the way into the hall.  They found it pitch dark
there.

Suddenly Laura stopped.  "Oh, Beth, I can't let it burn."

"What will burn, Laura?"

"My beautiful new Easter hat.  I must go for it."

"Laura Corner, you _must not_ go back for it.  We ourselves might burn
while you were getting it."

But Laura had thrust her clothes into Beth's unwilling arms, and was
off like a flash to rescue her Easter hat.  Beth did not know the way
sufficiently well to go on by herself, and so, trembling, she awaited
Laura's return.

[Illustration: Laura Corner in the treasured Easter hat.]

Laura was soon back, pressing the precious hat close to her side.  Such
treatment was likely to do it great damage, but, in her excitement,
Laura did not stop to think of this.

Down-stairs a light shone in the parlor.  Guided by its friendly beams,
Laura led the way there.  No one was within.  The house was deserted
but for the two trembling girls.

"Beth, God alone can help us," and Laura's face was almost as white as
the Easter hat under her arm.

Beth's lip trembled.  "He's so far away.  I wish mamma were here."

"Beth, God will hear us if we pray.  Get down on your knees beside me."

"I'd rather run out into the street," answered Beth, who always
believed in action rather than words.

"You're a wicked little girl.  My mamma says I must never go on the
street without some grown-up person.  So get on your knees this minute."

Beth meekly obeyed.  Laura folded her hands.  Beth imitated her.

"Begin," said Laura.

"Begin what?" and Beth's eyes were wide open from surprise; yes, and
from fear, too.

"Why, to pray, of course."

"I'm not going to.  You're the one who wanted to.  Why don't you begin
yourself?"

"I can't.  I'm too scared.  Go on, Beth, and pray."

"I--I don't know what to say.  Would 'Now I lay me down to sleep,' do?"

"No, silly.  We're not laying us down to sleep.  It's a fire.  God's to
keep us from burning to death.  So pray."

"I--I'm not going to," and Beth jumped to her feet.

Laura began crying: "You're very wicked, Beth Davenport, and we'll burn
to death, and it'll all be your fault."

"We won't burn if you'll come with me into the street.  I'm going
anyway."

"Why, children, what are you doing here?" asked Mrs. Corner, coming
into the parlor.

Laura rushed to her mamma and threw her arms around her neck.

"Oh, mamma, we thought you'd forgotten us, and would let us burn to
death."

"Why, you poor little things.  Of course, I hadn't forgotten you.  Our
house is not on fire.  The fire is next door.  We've been over there
helping, and we thought we would not waken you unless there was danger
of this house burning.  They're getting the flames under control.
Charlie has been working with wet blankets to keep our roof from
catching.  Now, children, you must go back to bed.  Come, I'll go up
with you."

When the two were again in bed and alone, Beth said;

"Laura, you ought to want to make up for calling me wicked."

"I guess you aren't wicked, after all, for God didn't let us burn.  I'm
sorry, Beth."

The children kissed.  Then, worn out by the thrilling events of the
night, slumber claimed them and held them captive until late next day.


CHAPTER V

Walking on Stilts

Julia came on the promised morning, and, to the delight of Beth, she
brought not only her own stilts, but bore an extra pair as a gift to
Beth.

Poor Beth was black and blue all over before she conquered those unruly
stilts, but it took more than bruises to dampen her ardor.

Julia was an expert in stilt walking.  She could go up and down steps
on hers; she could dance with them, and do other feats that appeared
marvelous to Beth, and made her ambitious to do likewise.

However, Beth persevered so faithfully that soon she was on the road to
being an expert herself.  Stilts took up a good share of the morning,
and, by lunch time, both children had fine appetites, although Beth was
very tired.

Mrs. Davenport suggested that the children play in the house for a
change.  They soon tired, however, of the indoor sports, and Beth,
although she was so lame that she could hardly move, declared that she
had never felt better, and away they ran to their stilts again.

Julia had already shown off about all of her stilt accomplishments, so
she thought and thought to devise something new whereby to arouse
Beth's admiration afresh.

"Beth, I have it.  We'll walk out in the river on our stilts.  I've
never tried that.  It will be great."

Beth looked somewhat doubtful.

"Weren't stilts made for land?  They're not boats."

"Oh, pshaw.  If you're afraid, you can watch me."

Watch her indeed!  Dragons could not have kept Beth from making the
attempt if Julia did.

They took their stilts to the river.  Beth was in such a hurry to show
Julia she was not afraid, that she had great difficulty in starting.
Julia mounted, and walked out into the water as proudly as a peacock.
Beth followed, but, of necessity, more slowly, and she kept near the
wharf.  Julia skimmed through the water for a minute or two almost as
easily as she went on land.  But alas, pride goes before a fall.

The river bed near the shore is of hard sand, but a little way out it
becomes marshy.

Suddenly Julia's stilts stuck.  She tried to raise them, but they would
not budge.  Now, as every stilt walker knows, it is impossible to stay
motionless on stilts.  Over Julia went into the water, headforemost.

Beth was so startled that she herself almost lost her balance, but,
fortunately, she grabbed the wharf, and scrambled up on that.  Away
floated her stilts.

I will seek, on another occasion, put you, if I have something more
superficial.

Meanwhile, Be content V. or rather not be disappointed with what you
spend, well I know that if something is worth and if you joke, V.
will find, I have no need to indicate where it is funny to V. the
estuary.

Believe me V. its always good friend _J. Valera_. Lisbon February
20, 1882.

CONTENTS Parsondes The Green Bird bermejino prehistoric salamanders
or blue Asclepigenia Gopa Santa THE GREEN BIRD.

I was in this very remote epoch in which we live, a mighty King, lover
with extreme their vassals, and possessed of a fertile, extensive
and populous kingdom, back in the Orient.

King had this immense treasure, and gave splendid feasts.

Attending in his court the most gentle and most discreet ladies and
brave knights that then were in the world. His army was large and
fierce.

Their ships traveled in triumph as the Ocean. The parks and gardens,
where they used to hunt and loose, were wonderful for their grandeur
and greenery, and a copy of vermin and birds they ate and lived.

But what shall we its palaces and its palaces in which is locked,
whose greatness exceeds any weight?

There, rich furniture, thrones of gold and silver, china and
porcelain, which was then less common now, where dwarves, jigantes,
clowns and other monsters for comfort and entertainment of SM, where
she cooks and pastrycooks deep and distinguished, caring body of
their food, and there no less profound and eminent philosophers,
poets and lawyers, who took care of grass to give his spirit, that
implies his Privy Council, which decided the most challenging issues
of law, and heightening the ingenuity exercised with logogrifos and
charades and sang the glories of the dynasty in colossal epics.

The vassals of the King rightly called _The Venturoso_. Everything was
going well in better during his reign. His life had been a fabric
of happiness, whose brilliance marred only by the dark shadow of
pain early death of Mrs Queen, full and very beautiful person who
had wanted to SM with all her heart.

Imagine, reader, what the cry, and he has been on the Super same
love that you had innocent cause of his death.

They are the stories of that country that the King had seven years
of marriage without making succession, although the strongly desired,
when a war occurred in the neighboring country.

The King departed with his troops, but was soon dismissed by Mrs
Queen with much affection.

This, giving a hug, told the hearing: - Do not tell anyone not to
laugh if my expectations are not achieved, but I think I'm pregnant.

The joy of this new King had no limits, and as everything goes
well you are happy, the triumph of their enemies in war, killed by
his own hand to three or four kings who had made him do not know
what bad last hit cities, made captive, and returned laden with
loot and glory of the beautiful capital of the monarchy. had passed
some months here, so to cross the King with great pomp the town,
between the cheers and applause from the crowd and the bells of
repiqueteo, Queen was giving birth, and birth with joy and ease,
despite the noise and excitement and even though it was early.

What would not taste so appalling SM when, on entering the royal
chamber, the largest in the kingdom midwife presented a beautiful
princess just born!

The King gave his daughter a kiss and went full of joy, love and satisfaction,
the fourth of Ms.

Queen, who was in bed so red, so fresh and beautiful as a rose in May.
-- my wife! - cried the King, and close in his arms. But the King was
so strong, so alive was the outpouring of kindness that no more
nor less accidentally drowned at the Queen.

So were the screams, despair and call it animal itself, with other
vocal samples painful feeling. But this is not resurrected by the
Queen who, though dead, was divine.

A smile of ineffable delight it would seem that even wandered on
his lips.

They undoubtedly had flown soul wrapped in a sigh of love and proud
to have known enough to inspire affection produce that embrace. What
a woman truly in love do not envy the fate of this Queen!

King tried the love you had, not only her life but after his death.
He votes widow and perpetual chastity, and knew met. Sent to the poets
to compose a funeral crown, still say they are in that kingdom as
the most precious jewel of the national literature.

The court was three years of mourning.

Of the mausoleum which was built only to the Queen of Caria was
subsequently a cheap imitation.

But since, as the saying goes, there is no evil that lasts one hundred
years, King, after a couple of them, shook his melancholy, and
felt so ventures or venture further than before.

The Queen appeared to him in a dream and told him that he was enjoying
God, and Princesita grew and developed one that was happy.

Princesita In meeting the fifteen years, was, by her beauty, understanding
and good treatment, admiration of those who watched and heard the
astonishment of many. The King did swear the heir to the throne, and
tried to marry her then.

More than half of post office, two men in zebra poster came from both
the capital of the Kingdom with offices in many other courts, inviting
all the princes to come to claim the hand of the Princess, which
had to choose between them which one you like.

The fame of her beauty portentous had already traveled around the
world, so that only emails were arriving at different cuts there was
no prince, and to ruin by little it was, decided not to go to the
capital of _Rey Venturoso_ to compete on fair, tournaments and
ingenuity of exercises for the hand of the Princess.

Everyone called her father the King arms, horses, his blessing and
some money, so the front of a bright procession, was in the way.

It was to see how the court would reach the high Princesita all these
gentlemen. Were to see the Sarah who was then in the royal palaces.
They were admired, finally, the mysteries that the princes were
proposed to show the respective wit, who wrote the verses, which
gave the serenades; fighting arc, boxing and wrestling, and racing
of horses and carts , which sought to leave the winner of each other
and win the love of the intended bride.

But this, despite his modesty and discretion, was given, without
being able to remedy such a Arisco, descontentadiza and indifference,
to overwhelm princes with their disdain, and none of them cared a
Ardite.

Their discretions frialdades seemed to him, his simple riddles,
yields arrogance and vanity of their wealth or greed, the love that
you showed. Just watch your exercises are worthy knight, nor hear
their serenades, a grateful smile and his poems of love.

The great gifts that everyone had brought from their homeland, they
were cornered in a zaquizamí the alcazar regions.

The indifference of Princess ice age for all suitors. Only one, the
son of Kan TARTARI had managed to escape their indifference to
incur their hate.

The Prince was suffering a sublime ugliness. His eyes were oblique,
cheeks and beard outgoing and tangled curly hair, and chubby little
body, but titanic strength, and the restless genius, mofador and
proud.

Even the most harmless people were free of their teasing, being main
target of which the Minister of Foreign Affairs of _Rey Venturoso_
whose gravity, then light and short and hates it that spoke
_sanscrito_, diplomatic language then lent something to ridicule
and jokes.

So things went, and the festivities of the court was more brilliant every
day. Princes, however, despaired of not being loved, the _Rey Venturoso_
anger at seeing her daughter did not quite decided, and that it
continued Erre Erre on ignoring none, except Prince Tatar, who pulla
and their declared abhorrence with usury come to the famous minister
of his father.

II happened, then, that the Princess in a beautiful spring morning, I
was in your toilet.

The favorite combed their golden girl, long hair and suavis.

The doors to a balcony facing the garden were open to let in the fresh
vientecillo and with it the scent of flowers.

Princess seemed melancholy and thoughtful and not directed or a
word to his servant.

It was already in his hands cord that was to link the golden crencha
his love, when entered by the balcony mistime a precious bird, whose
feathers appeared emerald and grace which was absorbed into the
flight the lady and her servant.

The bird, rushing rapidly on the latter, we caught the cord of his
hands, and went flying out of that stay.

It was all so instantaneous that Princess barely had time to see
the bird, but her daring and her beauty caused him strangest
impression.

A few days later, the Princess, to distract his melancholy, wove a
dance with his damsels in the presence of the Princes.

Were all in the gardens and watched fascinated. Princess suddenly felt
that he unleashed a league, and suspending the dance, he went with a
disguise to a nearby grove atársela again.

Descubierta already had S. A. the well-rounded palisades leg, had already
stretched the average of white silk, and was preparing to fix the
league on his hand when he heard a noise of wings, and saw her
coming towards the green bird, which snatched the league in eburnea
disappeared and the peak point.

The Princess gave a cry and fell fainted.

Attended the suitors and her father.

She returned alone, and the first thing he said was :--«¡ Let me look
at the green bird ... I bring you alive ... you do not kill ... I want
to have to live green bird! "But he sought in vain princes. In vain,
though commanded by the Princess of not thinking of killing the green
bird, he was released Neblí, sacred, and even eagles gerifaltes flow
domesticated and trained in falconry. The bird did not appear green
or alive or dead. The unfulfilled desire to possess torment of the
Princess and enhance their mood. That night could not sleep. The best
thing I thought of the Princes was not worth it at all. Just came
the day, rose bed, and lifting light clothing without crinoline and
corset, more beautiful and interesting in that _deshabillé_, pale
and dark circles, he with her maid, the most favorite lush forest
that was in the back of the palace, where stood the tomb of his
mother.

There was to mourn and lament his fate .-- What I do, I said, all my
riches, whether scorn, all the Princes of the world, if not love,
that my kingdom, if not have you , my mother, and all my jewelry
and primarily, if not I have a beautiful green bird?

With this, and as consolation for some, unlinked cord of her
dress and pulled out a chest rich Lockets, where he kept a curl of his
mother, who got to kiss. But just started to kiss, when he came faster
than the green bird, with its eburnea peak touched the lips of the
Princess, and snatched the Lockets, which for many years had rested
against his heart, and hidden as desired and place had remain. The
robbers then disappeared, going up the flight and lost in the
clouds.

This time the Princess was not fainted, but he stood very colorful
and told the girl: - Look at me, look at me lips; insolent bird
that has hurt me , because I burn.

The girl looked at the bite and not noticed any, but surely the
bird had in them something poisonous, because the traitor does not
appear again in the future, and the Princess was deteriorated by
degrees, until falling ill a lot danger.

A fever was consuming the singular and casino but spoke to say: -
Do not kill him ...

I bring you alive ... I want to possess.

The doctors were in agreement that the only medicine to cure the Princess
was to bring alive the green bird. But where do you find? Was futile to
seek the most skilled hunters.

Useless which offered huge sums to bring him. _Rey Venturoso_ The
congress brought together a great wise to investigate, on
pain of incurring their just indignation, who was living and where
the green bird, whose memories tormented his daughter .

Forty days and forty nights were what scholars gathered without
ceasing to speak, but to meditate and sleep and eat. come out very learned
and eloquent speeches, but nothing found out .-- Lord, they all
said after the King fell humbly and hurting their feet with dust
respectable fronts, we are silly, let us hanged, our science is a
lie: we ignore who the green bird, and only if we dare to believe
it is the phoenix of Arabia. -- -Rise, King replied with remarkable
magnanimity, I will forgive you and welcome the indication of the
phoenix.

Without delay of seven will present you with the rich for the queen
of Sheba, and with all the resources that I may have to hunt birds
alive.

Phoenix should have their nests in the country knows, and ye shall traérmele
there, if you do not want my anger regia punish you but try to
avoid escondiéndoos in the bowels of the earth.

It came out for the seven wise men of Arabia more versed in the
language, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on which had
much to laugh Prince Tatar.

The prince also sent letters to his father, who was the most famous
of those charming old, having been consulted on the case of green
bird.

Princess, meanwhile, remained very poor health and wept tears so abundant
that daily soaking them in more than fifty handkerchiefs. Washerwomen
palace were in this very enthusiasm, and as neither the most
powerful person had so much white clothing as now used, did not
go over the river to wash.

Washerwomen III One of these, which was some expression valiéndonos to
fashion, a very nice chick, he returned a day, at dusk on the river
to wash the handkerchiefs lacrimosa Princess.

In the middle of the road, and even very distant city gates, was
somewhat tired and sat under a tree.

He got a pocket of orange, and would pick for eating, when he escaped
from his hands and began to roll down the hill at that with great
lightness.

The muchachuela ran towards her orange, but the more he ran, the more
orange went ahead without ever stand and without it reaching a
career, although not lost sight of.

Tired of running, and I suspect, though inexperienced in the things
of the world, that it was not orange as runner entirely natural,
the poor are sometimes stopped and thought about abandon their
efforts, but the orange point also stopped, as if it had already
ceased their movement and their owner invited to re cogiese. she
got a touching with the hand, and the orange was slipped again and
continued on its way. lavanderilla enthralled so was the unprecedented
persecution, when he noticed that the end was in a forest intricate,
and that night he came over, as dark mouth wolf.

So was frightened, and broke into tears desconsoladísimo. The darkness
grew rapidly, and no longer allowed to see or orange, or directed, or
to find the way to go back.

I was then wandering to the venture, and afligidísima dead from hunger
and fatigue, not far when columbró some bright lights. Imagine
being in the city, gave thanks to God, and his steps straight towards
those lights.

But how big would not be surprised to find a little bit and without
leaving the intricate woods, at the gates of a palace suntuosísimo,
which seemed an ember gold so shining, and in comparison with a
poor pass by the splendid hut alcazar's _Rey Venturoso_.

The breeze had grown stronger, and had carried the sparks upward to the
palmettoes and pines, so full of oil.  Then it was but a question of
seconds before the awful fire sped with lightning speed over the dry
undergrowth.  Again, it swelled upwards on the scrub palmettoes, and
with a flash leaped skywards to the taller trees as if demons were
lifting the flames to the very heavens.  It was at this point that the
children discovered their danger.

Only a person who has seen a fire in the open among shrubs and trees
already parched for lack of water, and fanned by a wind each moment
growing stronger, can realize with what rapidity the fire spread.  To
Harvey and Beth, it seemed as if from the moment of discovery, the fire
hemmed them in.

The air was sultry, notwithstanding the wind, and with the spread of
the fire it grew more so.  The sky was marked with fantastic clouds
which turned from gray to flaming red.

Beth gazed around her helplessly.  She felt as if there was no escape
for them from a fiery death, which made her heartily repentant that she
had come.  She silently prayed to God to deliver them, and vowed if she
lived, never, never to do anything again without her mother's knowledge.

The awfulness of their surroundings and the enormity of his
responsibility, came upon Harvey with overwhelming force.  He was too
horrified for speech, and, for a few seconds, too stunned for action.

On rushed the triumphant flames, blasting everything within range.  The
hot breath from the fire recalled Harvey to the need of action.

"Oh, Beth, how can I get you out of this horrible place?  We are
surrounded by fire."  Then, in a moment, he added, "I see a way out, if
we run."

He caught her hand and half-dragged her through scorching shrubs,
circling to the left.  Fortunately, they managed to reach a road
skirting the woods without serious injury.

Here they saw excited men running towards the woods.  "It will burn our
homes, our all," they heard one cry.  "Our one hope is to start counter
fires," another cried.

At the word, to the horror of Beth who did not understand, the men set
fire to the low palmettoes a short distance away where there was an
open space.

It seemed wicked to her to set more trees on fire, especially when the
men seemed so anxious about their homes burning.

"Let's go," she sobbed.

Harvey held his head high.  "No, indeed, I won't go.  If their houses
burn, it's my fault.  I have some money in the bank and I'll give them
every cent of it.  They look like poor fishermen.  Oh, Beth, it's too
terrible.  See how high the flames go."

Up, up, they leaped, growing higher and more fierce every moment.  The
sparks flew inland.  If some change did not occur, no power under the
sun could save the poor fishermen's homes.

The two poor, forlorn little culprits waited in the roadway and watched
the progress of the awful flames.

The two fires looked like immense dragons that were rushing at each
other in uncontrolled fury.  The sparks flew right and left, but the
counter fire served its purpose somewhat in that part of the flames'
force was spent upon the other.

The fires crackled and hissed, and to Harvey these were the voices of
the dragons defying and mocking him.  To him they said:

"What can you do to stop us?  Nothing.  Yes, you may well tremble.  It
was you, you alone, that set us monsters free and we will not be
chained now that we are loose."  Upward the fire dragons flew, and even
as they sank down somewhat, their mocking did not cease.

"Counter fires may check us momentarily, but presently we will sweep
upwards and devour the fishermen's huts in our fiery grasp.  It is
awful to you, but to us it is fun, fun, fun, and we will not be
stopped.  Look at us.  Look at us."

Again the flames leaped higher and higher.  Harvey covered his face
with his hands.  He could not bear the sight another instant.

Beth would have comforted him if she had known how, but what could she
say?  She, too, felt that nothing could stop the onward rush of the
dragons.

But the one opponent that had power over them suddenly descended to
take part in the fray.

Beth clapped her hands in glee.  "It's raining, Harvey; it's raining."

The sun was still shining brightly, but, sure enough, one of those
showers peculiar to tropical lands was descending, and the wind, too,
abated somewhat.

"Thank God," murmured Harvey.  "Beth, I'm going to speak to the men."

She grasped him by the arm.  "Oh, Harvey, they might arrest you."

"Nonsense, Beth; they don't know how the fire started, and if their
houses don't burn, there's no use in telling.  You wait here for me."

He was gone only a few minutes, and, when Beth caught sight of his
radiant face, she knew the good news before he said a word.

"Beth, they say the houses won't burn.  We can go now."

They circled around the woods by the road, and, when they came to the
river, walked down the beach to their boat which they found unharmed.

The fish were burned to cinders.

"We don't care, do we, Beth?  I couldn't eat them, anyway, after all
the trouble they have caused us.  It was all their fault.  If they
hadn't been so foolish as to be caught, there wouldn't have been any
fire.  But I've built fires a hundred times before and never had
anything like this to happen."

Trouble, it is said, never comes singly.  When they were once more back
in the boat, Harvey found that he had both tide and wind against him,
and the river had become very squally.  The St. Johns is one of the
most treacherous rivers in the world.  It takes only a very short time
for her waters to become white-capped.

Harvey pulled manfully on the oars, but it was very hard for him to
make any headway.  Beth finally asked if she could not help to row.

"No, keep perfectly still where you are," he answered in such a short
manner that his little companion felt grieved.  She tried to let him
know that she was hurt, by not saying another word, but he was too busy
to mind.  By this time, he was worried.

"Supposing anything happened to us," he thought to himself, "Beth's
mother would never forgive me.  It was my fault that Beth came."

He never knew exactly how it happened.  Either the oar was defective,
or else he pulled too hard on it as it struck a large wave; whichever
it was, one of the oars snapped suddenly.  For a moment or so the boat
rocked helplessly on the waves, and it was driven backwards towards the
shore from which they had just come.

"Harvey," asked Beth almost in a whisper, "are we going to be drowned?
Can't I ever tell mamma how sorry, how very sorry, I am?"

"I won't let you drown, Beth."

He spoke with more assurance than he really felt, but his manner
comforted her.  He also proved that he was a born sailor.  First, he
skilfully steered the boat with the remaining oar.  Next, he picked up
from under one of the seats an old umbrella which chanced to be in the
boat, and used it for a sail.  Thus they were quickly carried back to
shore not far from the scene of the fire.

Harvey once more helped Beth out, and made the boat fast.  His plans
were already made.

"Beth, wait here for me.  I'm going to hire one of the men to take us
back."

Beth had time, while he was gone, to consider all that had happened.
More than ever, she felt that it had been very wrong for her to come
without permission.

Harvey presently returned with a man who carried a pair of oars.

"He's going to row us across, Beth."

"Is it safe?"

The man smiled.  "You needn't fear.  I'm strong, and the squall has
about blown over."

He helped the children in, and jumped into the boat himself as he
pushed it from shore.

"How are you ever going to get back yourself?" asked Beth, as the man
took his place at the oars.  She was fearful that Harvey would have to
row him back.  Otherwise, his return trip appeared to her as intricate
as some of the puzzles she had heard about crossing streams.

"I'm going to walk into town from your place.  I have some errands
there, and will take the ferry back."

Beth quieted down and watched the man.  His rowing aroused her
admiration.  She wished that some time she could prove as great an
expert as he, and resolved to do her very best to imitate him.  She
noted especially, the long swinging strokes that he took.  Crossing the
river was little work for him, and the other side was reached in
safety.  They drew up alongside the Davenport wharf.

Harvey offered to go up to the house with Beth, and take the blame upon
himself, but she thought that her mother would rather hear of the
adventure from her.  So the three occupants of the boat parted company.

Mrs. Davenport had not yet returned when Beth reached the house, but
came soon afterwards.  Beth immediately confessed to her every incident
of the day.

"This has taught you a lesson, Beth, without mamma's saying anything,"
Mrs. Davenport said, when the little penitent had finished.  "You know
yourself it was very wrong to go without permission, and I do not think
you will ever do such a thing again, will you?"

"Never," answered Beth so earnestly that Mrs. Davenport had full faith
in her promise.


CHAPTER VII

Beth's New Playfellow

Beth could not find Fritz high or low and she was worried about him.

She ran out to the barn to ask January if he had seen anything of her
pet.  She found the former inside the barn leaning up against a
partition wall with his eyes shut and his mouth wide open.  He was fast
asleep and looked very droll.

Beth could hardly keep from laughing, but she managed to say sternly:

"January, you ought to be working instead of sleeping."

He wakened with a start.  A look of conscious guilt overspread his face.

"My eyes were closed, Missy Beth; dat wuz all.  I jes' came in and sot
down to comb my hair."

Beth shook her finger at him.  "You were snoring."

"Wuz I?  Well, I'm powe'ful warm, Missy Beth.  Don't yo' tole on me,
an' I'll swah nevah to do so agin."

Beth felt it her duty to lecture him a bit.

"You ought to tell things when you do wrong.  I do.  January, have you
seen Fritz?"

"Not since dis mornin', Missy Beth.  He wuz down by the river watchin'
a great big 'gator."

She looked apprehensive.  "January, do 'gators ever eat dogs?"

"I've heard tell dey do sometimes."

"What would I do if that 'gator has eaten my Fritz!"

Whereupon away she ran, as fast as her little legs could carry her, to
the river, calling her beloved dog.  But no Fritz came bounding at her
call.  In fact, he did not return even to supper, nor for breakfast the
next morning.

The conviction grew with Beth that Harvey Baker's 'gator had eaten
Fritz.  Her resentment rose against the boy and his pet, she even
shedding some tears of anger and of grief.

Soon after breakfast, a red-eyed little girl started out to give Harvey
Baker a piece of her mind.  She found him, as usual, on the wharf.  He
was perfectly unconscious of the storm that was in store for him.  In
fact, he was in the very act of feeding the 'gator.

"Hello, Beth, don't make a noise.  I've just whistled for it."

Her eyes snapped.  "I just guess I'll make all the noise I want to, so
there; and I hope I'll scare the horrid old 'gator away," she
concluded, bursting into tears.

Harvey, in his surprise, dropped the meat which he held, and walked
over to comfort her.  She, however, turned on him like a veritable
little shrew.

"Go away, Harvey Baker.  I hate both you and your 'gator.  That's what
makes me cry."

He could not fathom her meaning.  He thought, perhaps, she was cross
because of the affair of yesterday.

"Was your mamma very angry?  Stop crying and I'll go with you and tell
her it's----"

"It's not that.  Your 'gator----"  She could not finish because of
sobs.  Harvey waited for her tears to subside, but at last grew
desperate.

"Can't you tell me what's the matter, Beth?"

"Your horrid old 'gator--it--has eaten--my Fritz."

"I don't believe it."

"My dog's gone and----"

"I'm very sorry, Beth, that Fritz is gone; but I don't believe the
'gator ate him."

"No, you're not sorry.  You were just going to feed that horrid beast,
and after it had eaten my Fritz, too."

"I didn't know about Fritz; but please don't blame me, Beth, even if
the 'gator did eat him."  He tried to take her hand, but she pulled it
away.

"I want my dog," she said angrily.

"O Beth, only like me again, and I'll promise never to feed the 'gator
as long as I live."

She was too grieved over the loss of Fritz to accept any such promise.
Harvey would have searched with her for Fritz, but she was so hurt that
she wished to be alone.  In fact, she was very cool towards him for
many a day thereafter.

A week passed; then two, and nothing was heard of Fritz.  The feeling
grew with Beth that the 'gator really had made way with her pet.  She
grieved more and more as time passed and nothing was heard of her dog.
At first, she was inclined to be very bitter towards Harvey, but she
could not hold a grudge long against any one.  Then, as she
acknowledged, she was not sure the 'gator had eaten Fritz.

One day, about three weeks after the loss of Fritz, Harvey walked into
the Davenports' house, leading a handsome, big black dog.  The minute
that the dog saw Beth, he bounded away from Harvey, and up to her.  He
licked her hand, and was altogether so affectionate that he won her
heart immediately.

"Oh, what a beautiful fellow.  Where did you get him?  Is he yours,
Harvey?"

The boy's eyes were very bright as he answered:

"Well, I guess so.  I'll tell you how I happened to get him, and then
you can judge for yourself.  I was in town day before yesterday, and,
while walking along Bay Street, I felt something licking my hand.  I
looked around, and saw this dog.  I had several errands that morning
and the dog followed me every place.  I simply couldn't get rid of him.
Then I made inquiries to find out who owned him.  For a long time
nobody seemed to know anything about him.  Finally I met a man down by
the market who said he had seen him come off a Spanish vessel that was
in port that morning.  I asked the man where the vessel was, and he
said it had sailed.  Then I asked him what I ought to do about the dog,
and he replied that he supposed I might as well keep him.  After that,
I went to father and told him about the dog and asked what I should do.
He said he would advertise it, and then if nobody answered, I might do
what I liked with him.  We have heard nothing so far of an owner, so it
begins to look as if the dog was mine."

"Why haven't you told me before?  You have had it two whole days."

"Well, Beth, I didn't want you to know about it until I was sure he was
mine.  Besides, I'm going to give him away."

Beth's eyes opened wide with astonishment.

"Going to give this lovely dog away!  Don't you like him?"

"Yes, but I like the person I'm going to give him to better."

"You must be awfully fond of that person, then."  Beth was ashamed to
think that she was a little jealous and tried not to show it by her
manner.

"I am.  Guess to whom I am going to give him."

"I can't."

"To the only nice girl I know, and her name is Beth Davenport."

"Not me?"  Her eyes had grown very big.

"Yes, you--really."

Beth could not believe it for a while.  When she did realize that
Harvey was truly in earnest, she gave one long gasp of delight.  Then
she surprised both herself and Harvey by throwing her arms around his
neck and kissing him.

Harvey, boylike, was a little embarrassed, but he did not object,
however.

"Harvey, you're the nicest boy living.  I don't know how to thank you."

He looked very much pleased.  "Do you really like him, Beth?"

"Like him!----"  She could not think of words strong enough to tell how
much she liked him.

"Is he as nice as Fritz?  Do you forgive me now?"

She immediately felt guilty, for it was a fact that she had not been
friendly towards Harvey since the disappearance of Fritz.

"He's a thousand times nicer, but perhaps you're just giving him to me
because you think you ought to.  Maybe the 'gator didn't eat Fritz
after all."

"I'm not giving him to you because of Fritz.  You may keep Don even if
Fritz comes back."

"Is Don his name?"

"I call him Don because he came off a Spanish vessel, and he seems to
like the name, but you can call him anything you wish."

"It's a pretty name, and I shall call him Don.  Shan't I, Don?"

The dog looked up at her with his intelligent eyes to see what his new
mistress wished.  She threw her arms about his neck and kissed him.

"Don, I love you, I love you.  You're my dog now.  Harvey has given you
to me."

Harvey felt a little jealous to see lavished on a dog caresses, such as
had been given to him only once.  He tried to distract Beth's attention.

"Say, Beth, you just ought to see him in the water.  He loves the
water."

"Does he?  Let's go down to the river."

This was just what Harvey wished, and therefore he readily consented.

The two started ahead.  Don followed majestically.

Mrs. Davenport saw them from the window, and stopped them.

"Where are you going, Beth?"

"Down to the river with Harvey, mamma.  Just see what he gave me."

Beth led Don up to the window where her mother was.

"Why, you nice dog, you.  He is a beauty.  Where did you get him,
Harvey?  He must be a very valuable dog."

Thereupon the history of Don's discovery was repeated to Mrs. Davenport.

"Harvey ought to keep him himself," she declared.

"But I wish Beth to have him, Mrs. Davenport.  Father said I might do
what I wished with Don, and when I told mother I was going to give him
to Beth, she thought it a very nice idea."

"You are very generous, Harvey, and both Beth and I appreciate your
present.  I love dogs almost as much as Beth does, but I don't know how
we can repay you."

"Mother says that you more than repay me by letting Beth play with me.
You know I haven't any sisters."

"Well, you and Beth must be careful not to get into mischief.  She may
play by the water this morning, but I don't care to have her go rowing.
The river is too rough to-day."

"We won't go rowing, mamma."

Thereupon they hurried with Don down to the river.

The wind was quite high, which made the water choppy.  The waves were
white-capped in many places.

"Now, Beth, you just watch and see Don perform."

Harvey held in his hand a good-sized stick, which he threw as far as
possible out into the water.

[Illustration: Harvey.  (Illustration missing from book)]

Away bounded Don after it.  He easily breasted the waves, and returned
in triumph with the stick.

He did this time and again, much to Beth's delight.

"Say, Beth, let's try him from the end of the wharf.  I wonder if he
would dare jump in from there."

"I don't like to try.  He might drown."

Harvey laughed the idea to scorn, and took a stick out to the end of
the wharf.  Beth and Don accompanied him.  Don seemed anxious to have
the stick thrown, for he watched it with glistening eyes.  Harvey threw
it.  Don immediately jumped after it, and succeeded in swimming to
shore with it.  By this time, he was probably tired, for he did not
return to the children, but lay down on the bank for a rest.

The boat had been left outside the boat house, tied to a stake of the
wharf.  Harvey eyed it longingly.

"I wish we could go rowing, Beth."

"So do I, but mamma said I couldn't.  You wouldn't have me disobey her,
would you?"

"Nobody has asked you to, has there?  Say, Beth, she never said for you
not to sit in the boat, did she?"

"No, but----"

"She said you couldn't row.  Now, sitting in a boat that's tied isn't
rowing, is it?"

"No, but----"

"Oh, come on, Beth.  It's perfectly safe when it's tied."

She hesitated.  Harvey was too much of a diplomat not to press his
advantage.

"Now, Beth, I think you might.  I wouldn't ask you to do anything your
mamma didn't like.  She won't mind, I know."

Still Beth was undecided.

"And, Beth, you ought to want to please me after I gave you Don."

This argument appealed to her.  She wished to show her appreciation.

"All right, if you really think mamma wouldn't mind."

Harvey did not answer.  He jumped down into the boat, and then helped
Beth.

"Say, Beth, we'll play we're pirates.  We're out in a storm, but we are
pursuing that boat there."

"What boat?"

"Why, that one there.  Don't you see that stick of wood?  It carries
chests of gold which we are after.  Now sit down and we'll start the
chase."

The younger pirate thereupon seated herself in the stern of the craft
while its gallant commander took charge on the middle deck.  He swayed
from side to side.  The boat rocked in a perilous manner.  Sometimes
the water even dashed over the pirates.

"Isn't it kind of dangerous, Harvey?" suggested the younger pirate.

"My name isn't Harvey.  I'm Captain Kidd, and you must never speak to
me without saluting,--so."

His self-importance caused him to move around more lively than ever,
while the boat shipped water afresh.

"But isn't it dangerous, Har--, Captain Kidd?"

The captain again looked very self-important.  "Pirates never think of
danger.  See how near we are to the English brig.  Ha, ha, mate, the
gold is ours.  Steady now, mate, she's coming your way.  When we are
once alongside of her, you make a dive for her, and pinion her until I
can rush to your assistance.  Steady now."

Nearer and nearer floated the English boat, unconscious of danger.
Perhaps the nature of the pirate craft was unsuspected.  It floated no
black flag.

The younger pirate grew excited over the nearness of the prize.  She
arose to her feet.  Surely, it was within grasp now.  Just as she was
about to reach out for it, however, a wave took the English boat and
started to carry it out of reach.

This made the younger pirate desperate.  She leaned far out over the
water.  Suddenly, the commander cried out in fear:

"Beth, don't try.  It's too far away."

His warning came too late.  The younger pirate had already reached out
for the English boat.  A wave at that moment struck the pirate craft,
and swayed it to one side.  Over went the younger pirate into the water.

Fortunately, Beth got only a wetting.  Before she was really in the
water, Harvey had her by the dress.  For a second or two, it seemed as
if the boat would upset.  But presently a wet, unhappy little girl
stood shivering beside Harvey.  Her teeth chattered from fright more
than from cold.

"What'll mamma say?"

"I'll tell her it was all my fault."

"How good you are," and Beth edged up nearer to him.

"Stop dripping water all over me and come on."

They hurried towards the house, and circled around to the back entrance
to escape Beth's mother.

The washerwoman, at the tubs on the kitchen porch, and Maggie were the
only ones to see poor Beth.  Maggie raised her arms skyward.  "Laws a
massa"--then she broke into hearty laughter.  "I 'lows, Penny,"--the
name of the washerwoman,--"hyere's moh washin' fur yo'.  How yo' 'specs
it'd be if we'd jes' run chile an' all frugh de wringer?"

Beth was too humiliated to say a word, and rushed up-stairs the back
way.

When the affair was reported to Mrs. Davenport, she considered the
situation well before seeing her little daughter.

Beth was getting to be a terrible tomboy, she thought, but she was
growing strong physically with the outdoor life.  And even while she
did sometimes fall into danger, the same thing often occurred when
mothers watched a child's every breath.  Mrs. Davenport decided that
the wiser way was to educate a child to be self-reliant and fearless,
trusting to God's guardianship and protection.

She knew that in the years to come, Beth would learn the gentler
graces, for she had a kindly heart; so, instead of punishing Beth, Mrs.
Davenport had a long talk with her that did Beth a world of good.  In
fact, her mother's gentleness was an inspiration to right living all
through her life.


CHAPTER VIII

Learning to Swim

Marian, Julia, Beth, Harvey, and Don were in bathing.  The deep water
enclosed by the walk and piling surrounding the boat house made a safe
bathing place for them,--safe at least from the alligators, though the
water was deep.  Harvey and Don were the only ones in the party who
knew how to swim.

The other children struggled hard to learn.  Harvey was a very willing
teacher, but did not know exactly how to impart his knowledge.  He said:

"Why, it's very easy.  See, you just have to start out like this, and
there you are."

Thereupon, they started out as directed, but, alas, they were not there
as he said.  Their feet grew unaccountably light so that their heads
disappeared under the water.  However, they enjoyed even the ducking.

Don reveled in the water frolic as much, if not more, than any of them.
He was ever ready to do the children's bidding, and ever kept a
watchful eye on his charges.  Beth, however, was his especial care.  He
seemed to feel an ownership for her.

Don, too, tried to encourage the children in their efforts to swim.  He
plunged out into deep water, and then looked persuasively back at the
children nearer shore, as if to say:

"Follow me.  It's really very easy."

Beth as usual proved the venturesome one, and started out after Don.

Mrs. Davenport, who was sitting on the wharf doing some fancy work and
at the same time watching the children, called:

"Beth, do be careful or you'll get into trouble."

"Why, mamma, I am careful."

Mrs. Davenport again became absorbed in her work.  Suddenly, she was
startled by screams from the children.  Above the other voices she
heard Marian calling:

"Don, Don, save her."

Poor Mrs. Davenport sprang to her feet in a frenzy of terror.  It was
as she expected.  She saw her beloved Beth sinking.  She was so
horrified that for a second or two she could not cry out.

Harvey was near Beth, but made no effort to rescue her.

"Harvey, Harvey," screamed Mrs. Davenport, "save her."

But even as she cried another was swimming to the rescue, and this was
faithful Don.  He had no idea of letting his beloved little mistress
drown.  He grabbed her by her bathing suit and swam towards the shore
with her.

"Why, Mrs. Davenport, we didn't think you'd be frightened.  It's only
play," called Harvey.

How proud the delighted dog was.  He thought he had really saved Beth's
life.  He did not know that she was just pretending for the fun of
having him come to her.

Day after day, the children struggled to learn to swim, but with rather
poor success.

At last, they thought of trying light logs to keep them up.  This
proved quite successful.  They placed the log across their chests, and
under their armpits, and then made their hands and feet go.  This was
quite like swimming.  After a time they tried it even in the deep water
inside the boat house.

One day Beth ran down ahead of the others.  Don, for a wonder, was not
with her that morning.  She thought she would have some fun all by
herself.

Her log was in the boat house.  She fearlessly jumped into deep water
with it, but somehow, she got beyond the range of the walk.  In trying
to paddle back to it, her log slipped away from her.  Then she grew
very much frightened.

It was a case of swim or sink.  Terrified as she was, she had presence
of mind to keep her hands and feet going.  To her surprise, she did not
sink.  She had only a little ways to go and made it without very much
effort.

When the other children came, she was all excitement.

"Just see.  I can swim, I can swim."

Beth hastened to show off her wonderful accomplishment.  She was
disgusted when Harvey laughed at her.

"Why, Beth, you swim in regular dog fashion.  You claw the water just
like Don.  You ought to go like this."

She tried striking out with her arms as he bid, but could not swim that
way.  Whereupon, she declared:

"I like swimming dog fashion best."

One evening Mr. Davenport came home and said:

"Mary, how would you like to go down to the seashore for a week?"

"And take us?" exclaimed Beth.

Mr. Davenport was in a teasing mood.

"I will take Marian because she has been good, but as to you, I must
find out first from mamma if any bad girl has been around here lately.
We can't take bad girls with us."

Beth held her breath for her mother's answer.

"Well, James, for a wonder we have had an unusually good girl here for
the past week.  If we go, she may go too."

Beth danced a jig in the intensity of her joy.

"Where are we going, papa?"

"Down to Fort George Island, which is at the mouth of the St. Johns.
We will leave to-morrow morning.  Can you be ready by that time, Mary?"

"I guess so."

Mrs. Davenport was accustomed to her husband's desire to start at a
moment's notice.  He had made a like suggestion many times before.

At Beth's earnest solicitation, she was allowed to take Don with her.

The next morning, when they boarded the boat for Fort George's, Beth
was very much surprised to behold Julia.

"Why, Julia, how nice of you to come down to see us off, but how did
you know we were going?"

"I didn't come to see you off; I'm going to Fort George, too.  Your
papa was over last night and persuaded papa and mamma to go."

"Oh goody, goody, goody."

Julia and Beth took possession of the boat from the first moment.  They
inspected it from one end to the other.  They made friends with the
captain and those under him.  They went up even to the pilot house and
helped run the boat, or, at least, they thought they were helping.  The
morning proved a very happy one for them.

The trip delighted their parents also.  They were content to sit still
and watch the St. Johns as it curved and widened on its course to the
ocean.  There is hardly a more picturesque river in America.

As they neared the sea, its briny odor was wafted to them by the
breeze.  Great sand dunes rose on both sides of the river.

Upon reaching Fort George, the Davenport party drove in the 'bus to the
hotel, over the hardest of shell roads.  Magnificent palms lined the
way on both sides.  All the foliage, in fact, was extremely luxuriant.
The island was more tropical than anything that the Davenports had
seen, so far, in Florida.

A gentleman in the 'bus proffered the information to Mr. Davenport that
the island had once been visited by Talleyrand.  He said it had been
owned by French grandees who carried on an extensive slave trade from
the island.

When questioned about the mounds of shells that are so numerous at Fort
George, the gentleman explained that for many centuries the Indians had
congregated on the island in oyster season, and held high festivals.
They probably feasted on oysters and corn, and these mounds were the
result.

The week that followed was one of almost unalloyed bliss to Julia and
Beth.  They got into very little mischief, although they simply lived
out of doors, and up in the trees.

Each morning, a number of the people from the hotel went in surf
bathing.  Beth was always one of the party.  Mrs. Davenport did not
care to go in, but she generally sat on the beach and watched the
bathers.

Since Beth had learned how to swim, she caused her mother much anxiety.
She was very venturesome, and would often swim far out beyond her depth.

Don did not enjoy salt water as much as he did fresh, and therefore he
often rested beside Mrs. Davenport.

One morning only children went in bathing.  All the men were away
fishing, and the women did not care for the sport.  Mrs. Davenport was
unusually anxious, and she warned Beth to stay near shore with the
other children.  Beth obeyed pretty well at first, but before she knew
it she was out where the water was over her head.

"Beth, it's time to come in," called her mother.

Beth raised her head and spurted out some water.

"Why, mamma, I'm coming."

"No, you're not.  You're going out," and Mrs. Davenport sprang to her
feet in sudden terror.

"Why, mamma, I'm swimming as hard as ever I can."

In fact, Beth was trying her very best to reach shore, but
notwithstanding her desperate efforts, she was slowly but surely
drifting out to sea.  One of those treacherous undertows that abound on
the Florida coast had her in its deadly power.

Mark Charlesworth, one of the boys, rushed to the side of Beth's mother.

"Oh, Mrs. Davenport, she'll surely drown unless some one saves her.  A
boy was drowned just that way last winter."

Mrs. Davenport was almost frenzied.  She could not swim and she knew
that personally she could not rescue her child.  She looked in vain for
assistance.

The other children had come from the water, and rushed frantically up
and down the beach wringing their hands in terror.

Beth realized that her position was critical, and she struck out with
such desperate energy that soon she felt her strength failing her.
Terror seized upon her so that she feared she could not keep up another
instant.

"Mamma," she screamed, "I'm sinking."

Mrs. Davenport's heart grew leaden.  Was there no hope for her child?
Must she stand helpless and see her drown?  No, no, there must be some
way of saving her.  She would not despair.

"Dearie, don't give out," she cried; "mamma will save you."

The words strengthened Beth to strive anew.  At this instant, Mrs.
Davenport's eye rested upon Don lying fast asleep in the shade.  Her
heart seemed to jump into her mouth in the intensity of a new hope.

"Don, Don, go to Beth," she cried.

But Don would not heed.  He did not realize the danger.  He was tired
and wished to sleep.

"Beth, call Don."

Beth who was drifting farther and farther away heard, and yelled:

"Don, Don."

The dog immediately pricked up his ears.  Then he jumped to his feet.

"Don, Don."

At that second appeal, he bounded into the water.

Mrs. Davenport felt like falling on her knees in thanksgiving.

"Dearie, don't give up.  Don's coming."

Beth heard and her strength revived sufficiently for her to struggle
afresh against that terrible undertow.

The big waves swirled around Don who swam directly towards Beth.

Mrs. Davenport's heart almost stood still while her anxious eyes kept
watch on her struggling child and the noble dog.

"Thank God, the eddy has Don too in its wake and is helping him on to
my child.  Beth's strength again seems to be failing.  Will she be able
to hold out?  On, Don, on.  Supposing he cannot make it.  Supposing the
child sinks before he reaches her?"  These seconds of watching seemed
an eternity to the frantic mother.

"Thank God, he is almost within reach of her.  Bravo, Don, bravo.  He
has Beth fast by the bathing suit.  Brave, brave dog.  Now he has
headed towards shore.  Will he ever be able to make it with that awful
undertow to work against besides the extra precious burden he carries?
How heroically he struggles.  Oh, noble, noble Don, you will save her
yet, and keep a mother's heart from breaking.  Yes, he is slowly but
surely making headway against the eddying waters.  Now, now, his feet
surely touch bottom.  Yes, and Beth knows it and struggles to her feet.
Thank God, she is still conscious."

Though Beth was very much frightened, she was in no way harmed by her
watery experience, and rushed straight to her mother's open arms, both
unmindful of the wetting Mrs. Davenport received.

Don pricked up his ears, and wagged his tail from side to side.  He
could not understand why they did not notice him immediately as they
had done before when he rescued Beth.  Really, it was enough to ruffle
the patience of any dog.  He barked to attract attention.  Thereupon,
Mrs. Davenport turned to him, and patted him while tears trickled down
her cheeks.

"Yes, Don, we know what a very noble fellow you are, and love you with
all our hearts.  We'll never forget what you've done."

Beth said nothing, but patted Don who expressed his appreciation as
best he could by licking Beth's hands and face.  If he could have
talked, he would have said:

"Little mistress, I'm so glad I could show my love for you.  I do
dearly love you all, and am thankful that I saved you.  Life with you
is better than it was at sea.  I will always be faithful to you."

This narrow escape of Beth's made Mrs. Davenport wish to return home.
She said she would not stay with the children where the water was
treacherous.  The following day, therefore, they all returned to
Jacksonville.


CHAPTER IX

The Little Dressmaker

It must not be imagined that Beth always romped.  Although she was a
tomboy, she was a very industrious little girl.  She did not go to
school the first year she was in Florida, and on rainy days she learned
how to sew.

Mr. Davenport started a bank in Jacksonville, and soon after was
elected president of the State's fair.  He was a liberal-minded
citizen, and therefore accepted the position, wishing to advance the
standard of Florida exhibits.

Beth became interested in the undertaking.  She asked to enter the
lists herself and compete for prizes.

Mr. Davenport thought it an excellent idea that children should be
encouraged to exhibit, and therefore offered prizes for juvenile
displays.

Beth decided to make a dress all by herself.  Her mother suggested that
she was rather young for such a big undertaking, and that, perhaps, she
had better first dress a doll, but Beth would not listen to such a
thing.

Mrs. Davenport, therefore, bought the material and a pattern, and gave
them to Beth.  She offered to cut out the dress, but Beth thought that
this would not be honorable nor fair.  She must do it all by herself.
Mrs. Davenport admired the spirit, and encouraged it in her, although
she feared she might make a failure.

Beth, however, had one great quality of success,--perseverance.  She
would never give up anything in which she was interested, until she had
succeeded.  For the next three days, she could not be enticed from her
work.

"Beth, please, come with me," begged Harvey, who came quite regularly
to persuade her from her undertaking.  But she was deaf to all
persuasion.  Julia had no better success, and it ended by Beth
infecting Julia with the sewing fever.  Julia brought material for a
dress over to the Davenports' and went to work on it.  She sewed
faithfully for an hour or two, and then jumped up in disgust.

"Oh, botheration, Beth; I can't get the horrid thing right, and I'm not
going to try."

"Let me help you, Julia.  Maybe we'll get prizes."

"Oh, bother prizes.  Let's quit."

"No, I'm going to finish this dress.  Please stay and sew with me."

"If I do, what will you do for me?"

"Anything you want me to."

"All right then, I'll stay, but when you've finished, you have to go up
in a tree with me and spend the night.  We'll be like the captive
princess."

They had just finished a fairy tale of a princess confined in a tower
which she never left during many years.  The tower was well provisioned
so that she did not starve.

"It'll be great fun," continued Julia.  "We'll take plenty of food up
with us.  I'm so glad you promised to go."

"May I tell mamma about it?"

"No."

"Then I won't go.  I know mamma wouldn't like it, Julia, and it's wrong
to worry her."

"And it's downright wicked to break one's word.  You aren't going to be
wicked, are you?"

Beth looked worried.  "Please don't ask me to play princess, Julia."

"But you just have to, Beth; that's all there is about it."

This was Julia's ultimatum.  She persisted in remaining with Beth until
the dress was finished, although, she, herself, did comparatively
little sewing.  She even stayed nights at the Davenports for fear Beth
would betray her secret.

Beth worked so steadily that Mrs. Davenport feared that she would make
herself sick, and was glad when finally Beth jumped up and said:

"There, mamma, it's finished.  Buttonholes and all.  I guess it's all
right, isn't it?"

The dress was very creditably made for so young a girl.  Mrs. Davenport
was justly proud of it and of Beth.

"Mrs. Davenport," began Julia, "can't Beth stay all night with me?"

"Yes, I'll be glad to have her out of doors.  Run along, Beth."

Beth, however, held back.  "I'd rather stay with you, mamma."

"Why, child, what is the matter?"

"Oh, she's just tired from this everlasting sewing, Mrs. Davenport;"
and then Julia whispered to Beth, "You're not going to be wicked and
break your word, are you?  I'll never speak to you again if you don't
come."

Thus pressed, Beth reluctantly kissed her mother and departed.

"We'll go over to my house, and get enough food for supper and
breakfast."

Away they hurried to the Gordons.  Julia robbed the larder to quite an
extent.

"Mamma, I'm going back to Beth's.  You don't mind, do you?"

"No."

Thereupon, avoiding observation, they ran back to Beth's.  They
selected a grand water oak with immense spreading branches that would
effectually screen them from view.  Besides, it was quite a ways from
the house, which suited Julia's purpose.

Julia, carrying the provisions, scrambled up into the tree as nimbly as
a squirrel, crying:

"Isn't this the grandest fortress you ever did see?"

Beth was too busy climbing to answer.  She was a natural born climber,
but she lacked practice.  Besides, her plumpness would prevent her from
ever being quite as agile as Julia.

"This will be my bedroom.  See, I do not have to build any bed.  These
branches and leaves make a perfect resting-place," declared Julia.

"Yes, but suppose you fell asleep and rolled out.  You'd break your
neck."

"I don't roll out of bed at home, and I'm not going to here."

"But I do, and I don't want to break my neck.  I guess I'll stay awake
all night, but I'll lie down."

As Beth spoke, she lay back on some inviting looking branches.  Their
appearance, however, proved deceitful.  They were not as strong as they
looked, and she came very near having the tumble that she dreaded.
Luckily, however, she caught on to a strong branch, and with Julia's
assistance was soon in comparative safety.

"I guess I'd better sit up all the time."

"I reckon you'll do nothing of the sort.  I'll tell you what: You may
have my bedroom, and I'll find another higher up."

Although Beth was still trembling from the narrowness of her escape,
she did not wish to take advantage of Julia's generosity, but the
latter insisted.

Thus persuaded, Beth, cautiously this time, tried reclining on the
branches.  She found that they really made a delightful bed.

"It is beautiful, Julia.  Why, I don't believe I should be afraid to
sleep here.  These limbs would keep me from falling."

"And here is another bed just as good.  You see I'm right across the
hall from you.  I didn't have to go to the next floor as I feared at
first.  It's nicer being near each other, isn't it, Beth?"

"Yes, much nicer, but wouldn't you rather have this room, Julia?  It is
so lovely."

"No, it isn't.  Mine is best.  I can look way up to the sky."

"Why, that isn't nice at all.  I wouldn't sleep in a room without a
roof.  Mine has a roof painted green."

"I don't care, mine's nicer."

"No, it isn't.  Mine is."

Whereupon they had a fuss, such as all children sometimes have.  They
declared that "they didn't like each other," and that one was "hateful"
and the other "too mean to live," and that "they'd never speak again."

In a minute or two after, they were talking as lively as two young
magpies.  They had figuratively kissed and made up.

"Now," said Julia, "I'm going to draw the portcullis so we can never go
down unless some one comes to release us."

"I don't care to stay here always."

"We're only playing, goosie, but you have to stay until morning because
you promised."

After that one thrust, Julia relented and tried to be as nice as she
possibly could, and Beth had such a good time that her conscience
stopped troubling her.

The minutes passed so quickly that they both were surprised to see how
low the sun was.  The captive ladies decided it was time to eat supper,
so they divided supplies, using their laps as tables.

Beth, the unfortunate, had not taken a mouthful when a great pinching
bug dropped on her head.  She jumped to her feet screaming, and her
supper was all scattered to the ground.  She decided to go after it.

"Where are you going, Beth?"

"After my supper."

"But the portcullis is drawn."

"I'm going to have my supper, portcullis or no portcullis."

Already it was growing so dark that objects were becoming
indistinguishable.  Suddenly Beth uttered a cry.

"What's the matter?"

"I,--I thought it was a bear.  It's only Don, however, and he's eaten
up all my supper, the mean thing, and now he's run away."

"Never mind, Beth.  You can have half of mine."

They ate their scanty meal in silence.  It was growing so dark that
immediately after supper they went to bed.

Neither of the children felt comfortable, but neither would own it.

"Isn't this heaps of fun, Beth?"

"Yes, heaps, Julia."

Then each of them let a great sigh escape.  Silence prevailed for
awhile.  All the world seemed asleep.  Such stillness was terrifying to
the children.

"Are you asleep, Julia?"

"No, but I thought you were."

Again they were quiet until it had grown pitch dark.

"I can't sleep."

"Neither can I, but it's fun, isn't it?"

"It's a sperience, Julia."

Again two great sighs, and then quiet once more.

Suddenly, there was a hoot right above them.  Julia and Beth both gave
such a start that they almost tumbled out of the tree.  Then two scared
whispers were heard:

"What was that?"

"I don't know."

Another hoot.

"I wish we were together, Julia."

"So do I.  Say, Beth, I believe there's room for you here with me.
Let's try it."

"I'm afraid to come."

"Don't be a 'fraid cat."

"I'm not, only----"  For the third time that melancholy hoot above them.

"Julia, come to me."

"I won't do it.  I spoke first  You come here."

Solitude was so terrifying that Beth risked the trip across for
companionship.  Fortunately, the hoot did not occur during her trip to
Julia, or she would probably have landed on the ground.

The space proved rather narrow, and rather perilous for two, but Beth
and Julia snuggled together very close.

Soon the hooting began again, and continued at regular intervals.

"I believe it's a hoot-owl."

"So it is."

Although they knew it was only an owl, the melancholy cry was neither
conducive to sleep nor to high spirits.  The children found it
decidedly depressing.  They talked awhile in whispers.  The sound of
one's own voice even is startling in such a situation.  Very often they
sighed, and sometimes there was a pensive quietness broken only by the
hoot-owl.

"What time do you s'pose it is, Julia?"

"I think it must be twelve at least.  They're not coming for us
to-night.  They've forgotten us."

Their parents had not forgotten them, but when meal-time came and they
did not appear, the Davenports supposed they were over at the Gordons',
and the Gordons thought they were at the Davenports'.  The children
often stayed for meals without asking, and so neither family worried.

About half-past eight the Gordons decided to go and bring Julia home.
When they walked in at the Davenports, the first question asked them
was:

"Why did you not bring the children with you?"

"The children?  Why, they are here, are they not?"

Anxiety immediately possessed every one present.  Mrs. Davenport's
first thought was of the river, and her heart became leaden.  She gave
voice to her fear.

"Nonsense," answered Mr. Davenport decidedly, although he himself was
not so sure as he seemed; "they are not drowned."

With lanterns to aid them, a search was begun through the grounds.

Two scared little girls presently saw lights flitting like fireflies
below them.

"Perhaps it's burglars."

"Or--or the Prince to rescue us."

"I don't want any Prince; Julia.  I want my mamma.  I'm tired of being
a Princess.  I want to go home.  Let's call."

"But what if they are burglars."

"Burglars don't carry lights, do they?"

Then they heard voices calling:

"Julia, Beth."

"Here we are, papa.  Here, up in this big tree."

This answer brought relief to many hearts.  Even Julia was not sorry to
descend again to earth, and be once more an ordinary girl.  Romance is
not always as pleasant as being practical.  Let children who are
inclined to run away from home, remember this.


CHAPTER X

The Horse Race

"I'm going to double the recipe, Maggie."

"Law, honey, yo' hadn't best.  I 'lows it's more partickiler to get
good dat way."

"I can't help it.  I want plenty of it so the judges can all have a
taste.  They'll be sure to give me a prize."

Beth had on an apron in which she was almost lost.  In her hand, she
held an open cook book from which she read:

"'The whites of five eggs.'  Twice five is ten.  Give me ten eggs,
Maggie."

The good-natured Maggie counted out the desired number.

"I'll break dem for yo', honey."

"No, Maggie, I must do it every bit myself or it wouldn't be fair.  Oh,
dear me.  The yolk has got into this one so it's no good.  Another egg,
please, Maggie."

All ten of the whites were finally in one dish.  Beth tried to beat
them and spattered them not only over herself but over the pantry floor.

"Whites of eggs are very slippery, Maggie."

"I wouldn't beat more'n half at a time, honey."

Beth accepted the suggestion and succeeded in getting a good stiff
froth from the eggs.  Next, she measured out the other ingredients.
She tried to be careful, but somehow she spilled flour not only over
the pantry floor but also over herself.

"Beth, you are a powdered beauty," called a boyish voice from the open
pantry door.

"Why, Harvey, where did you come from?"

"Oh, I came to see you, and your mother told me I'd find you here.
What are you making?"

"Wait until I put this pan in the oven, and I'll tell you all about it.
Maggie," added Beth to the cook, "you're not to peep at my cake even.
Promise me."

"Law, honey, I won't even go into the kitchen if yo' don't want me to.
I'll stay here in de pantry until yo' calls me, but I fear you'll
forget it."

"No, indeed, I won't."

The precious cake was consigned to the oven, and then Beth joined
Harvey on the piazza.

"I've made an angel's cake, Harvey, and I'm going to get a prize for
it.  Mamma says the only way to learn to cook is just to cook."

All this time, Harvey had been holding one hand behind him.  Beth now
noticed that he was hiding something.

"What have you there?" she asked.

Harvey looked bashful.  "Well, ever since I came so near burning you
up, I've been saving my money to buy you a present, and here it is."

Beth drew in her breath at sight of a beautiful dog collar.  "Oh, it's
for Don, and what's this mark on it?  'Don.  Owned by Beth Davenport.'
Oh, it's too lovely for anything.  Where is Don?  I must try it on him."

The prize cake was all forgotten.  Away she and Harvey scampered.

Don was out near the stable.  The collar fitted him exactly, and the
children talked and admired it for some time.

Suddenly Beth gasped, "Oh, my cake," and ran as fast as she could back
to the kitchen.

Upon opening the oven, an avalanche of smoke came forth.  The cake was
burned to charcoal.

The heart-broken little cook sat down on the floor and cried bitterly.
Maggie stuck her head through the pantry window.

"For de law's sake--dat beau'ful cake.  I knew I jes' ought to have
'tended it."

"Maggie, Maggie, why didn't you tell me it was time to look at it?"

"Sure, honey, didn't yo' tol' me I must have nuffin to do with it?"

"Yes, but----" the sentence ended in sobs.

"Never mind, Beth," said Harvey; "Maggie will make you another, won't
you, Maggie?"

"I don't want her to make me another.  I was going to take a prize with
this one, and the judges won't give prizes for burnt cake, boo-hoo."

Suddenly Beth resolved not to cry over spilt milk.  She jumped to her
feet.

"Harvey, run away.  I'm going to make another cake, and I won't let it
burn.  I'll get the prize yet."

Harvey reluctantly departed.  Beth immediately went to work and made
another.  When once it was in the oven, she watched it so carefully
that Maggie feared it would be spoiled by overzeal.  For a wonder, it
was a great success.  A professional cook could not have made a
better-looking cake.

By this time, it was growing so late that Beth did not wait to make
frosting.

She took her dress and cake over to the Fair building, which was about
a quarter of a mile from her home.  She was in plenty of time to make
her entries.

Dollie was grazing in the pasture when Beth returned.  This reminded
her of her great desire to ride Dollie, so she called the horse to her,
and she came running at the call.  Dollie was always sure of sugar from
Beth.

Beth put her hand up against the horse and whispered:

"I wish I might ride you, Dollie.  I know I could.  I'll go and ask
mamma if I may."

Away ran Beth to her mother.

"Mamma, may I ride Dollie this morning?"

"No, dear, I'm going to use Dollie myself.  I'm going to get Mrs.
Corner, who is to spend the day with me.  We are going to the races
this afternoon."

"Won't you bring Laura back, too?"

"She probably can't come.  She goes to school, you know."

"Mamma, will you let me ride Dollie sometime?"

"Yes, dear, sometime, but don't tease now."

Beth took this as a decided promise.  She told Maggie, January, Harvey,
and Julia that she was to ride Dollie; that her mamma had said so.  She
did nothing but talk about the matter the whole morning.

Mrs. Davenport returned with Mrs. Corner in time for luncheon.  About
two o'clock Beth ran into the library where her mother and her guest
were having a cozy chat before starting for the races.  She had thought
so much about her ride that she took it for granted that Mrs. Davenport
must know her thoughts.

"Mamma, I'm going now.  May I?"

At this particular moment the conversation between the two women was
especially absorbing so that Mrs. Davenport hardly heeded Beth.

"May I, mamma?"

Mrs. Davenport glanced towards her for a second.  She took it for
granted that Beth wished to play with either Julia or Harvey.

"All right.  Run along, dear."

In the seventh heaven of happiness, Beth skipped up-stairs.

She decided that it would never do to ride in an ordinary dress, and
believed that her mother would not object if she borrowed her riding
habit.  Beth knew just where to find it.  The skirt was one of those
now old-fashioned affairs that almost swept the ground even on a
grown-up person.

However, Beth was not to be daunted.  She heroically jumped into the
skirt, but found that the belt was almost twice too large for her.
This necessitated the use of a safety pin.  She took a step towards the
bureau, and fell sprawling over the floor, tangled in yards of trailing
skirt.  She tried to rise, and tripped again.  For a moment, she rested
on the floor, thinking to herself that it must be a much harder matter
to manage a habit than a horse.  Then, gathering up the unruly skirt in
both hands, she managed to reach the bureau where she pinned the skirt
tightly around her.  But even now her troubles were not over.

The waist proved almost as big a problem as the skirt.  She buttoned it
on over her own dress, but even then it was about twice too large for
her.

She looked at herself in a glass, and burst forth into hearty peals of
laughter.

"I declah"--already she pronounced "declare" almost like the
darkies--"I feel like a cat dressed up in clothes.  It can't move
without tumbling all over itself, and neither can I."

She held up her arms and flapped them.  They were almost lost in the
voluminous sleeves.  Her hands were not to be seen at all.

"I never can manage a horse without hands," she murmured.

She overcame this difficulty by pinning up the bothersome sleeves.

Next, she jammed her mother's riding hat down on her curls.  It, too,
was much too large for her, and had some blond frizzes sewn across the
front of it.  The hat with its false front added the finishing touch of
rakishness to Beth.  She, however, was as proud as a peacock over her
attire.

As fast as her awkward skirt would allow, she hurried in search of
January.

He was very much amused over her appearance.

"Missy, I declah, yo' looks like a rag bag dat needs some rags to fill
it out.  Whaffor don't yo' get chuck full of somethin'?"

She would not heed such remarks, but said with great dignity:

"I wish the saddle put on Dollie."

"I'm skeered yo'r maw won't like me to."

"But she told me I might ride."

Still January hesitated.

"I dunno as I kin kotch Dollie."

"You can try.  Hurry, January."

For once Dollie was easily caught and saddled.  January helped Beth to
mount.  Nobody but him saw the start.  He was so much interested that
he walked down as far as the gate and opened it.

Dollie did not seem to wish to go for Beth, but the latter settled the
question with a switch cut by January.  She headed Dollie in the
direction of the Fair grounds.

There was more driving than usual on the shell road, because of the
Fair and the races.  Many a person turned, stared, and smiled to see
that quaint little figure on Dollie going along so primly.

A young lady, a cousin of Beth's, was spending the winter in
Jacksonville that year, and was very popular in society.  On this
particular afternoon she, too, was driving on the shell road and
chanced upon Beth.  She and her escort laughed so heartily over the
child's ludicrous appearance that Beth, at first, was inclined to be
offended.  However, she drew Dollie up alongside of the carriage.

"Are you laughing because we're going slow?  I'm not a bit afraid.
Say, Cousin Lulu, would you like to have a race with me?"

Lulu and her escort laughed harder than ever.  Beth tried to look more
dignified.

"I bet I could beat you, Cousin Lulu.  Are you afraid I would?  Come on
and try."

The young man in the carriage leaned forward.

"Do you ride well enough for that?"

"Of course, I do."

This was hardly true, as she had never ridden at a fast pace in her
life.  She did not think it necessary to own to this, however.

The young man was highly amused.

"Well, little lady, we'll try your skill.  If you reach the Fair
grounds gate before we do, I'll give you a box of candy.  Now when I
count three and say go, we'll both start.  Now one, two, three, go."

Beth gave Dollie a cut with the switch.  She was bound to win that box
of candy.

Dollie, surprised by the sudden blow, leaped forward, almost unseating
Beth who, however, managed in some way not to fall.

The young man had a fine horse which also started forward at a good
fast pace, and soon nosed ahead of his rival.

Dollie, not to be outdone, quickened her gait.  Both horses began to
feel the contagion of the race, especially Dollie who had been, as
January said, a race horse in her day.  Her mouth tightened on the bit.

Beth's blood quickened too.  After she found she could cling on, she
was not a particle frightened but began to enjoy the sport.

The young man turned to Lulu, saying:

"She does well for such a little thing, doesn't she?"

He touched his horse with the whip.  It went faster.  Whereupon Dollie
took the bit so completely that Beth had no control over her.  Her
racing blood was thoroughly aroused, and it would have taken an
extremely strong hold to quiet her.  She simply flew, and Beth began to
be scared.  The words of January flashed through her mind: "She'll go
so fast, you'll wish you hadn't got on her."

Nose to nose the horses sped over the hard shell road.  The situation
grew critical for Beth.

She wondered what her mother would say if she were thrown and her
lifeless body were carried home.

"She will be so sorry that she scolded me yesterday.  I wish I could
tell her that I know I deserved it.  I don't want to die."

The world seemed more beautiful than ever now that death seemed near
her.

"Whoa, Dollie, whoa," she cried.

But Dollie paid not the slightest attention.  With head curved well
down she sped as fast as in her palmiest racing days.  Slowly but
surely she forged ahead of her fast rival.

"The horse is running away with the child.  Stop her, stop her," cried
Cousin Lulu in alarm.

Her warning came too late.

They were now opposite the Fair grounds, which had a very high fence
surrounding them.  There were two gates, one for pedestrians and the
other for carriages.

Join all back, and your Majesty bezeuget Sr. guilty awe. My Gracious
Lord - King Richard. My noble cousin, her princely demüthiget your
knees too deeply, by the low earth makes them proud to touch. I would
prefer if your love my heart felt when unsatisfied that my eyes
see your courtesy.

On, Vetter, on, your heart is at least as high, (he indicates with
his hand on his Crone) if your knee is so low. Bolingbroke. My Gracious
Lord, I come only for what is my own.

King Richard. Your property is yours, I'm yours, everything is yours.
Bolingbroke. In so far let my Seyn Your Majesty, my Gracious Souverain,
as my faithful service will earn your love.

King Richard. verdienet your everything; who deserves more , than who
is the safest and quickest way known to win? Uncle, give me your hand,
no, troknet your eyes; Thränen are only hülflose sign of love.

Cousin, I'm too young to be your father Seyn whether its the same
old enough Seyde my heritage Seyn.

I will give you what you want to have, and even so, will.

After all, why should we not want to understand what we need? Ziehet
continued to London.

Is that not your intention, cousin? Bolingbroke. Yes, Gracious Lord. King
Richard. So I may not say no. (Trompeten. you go anyway.) Siebende Scene.
(A garden in the courtyard of the Queen.) (The Queen meets with
zwoen queens on.) Queen. What a Kurzweil we want in this garden
make our kummer good idea to sell?

Lady. Madam, we want to play with balls. Queen. That would make me
think that the world is full of roughness and Zaken, and that my Glük,
like a ball which has lost its power, running sideways. Lady. madam,
so we want to dance. Queen.

My feet can not Maaß * in pleasure, if my poor heart no Maaß in keeps
his grief.

So nothing of dancing girls; any andres game. -* (Ed pun with the word
(measure), which Cadenz and Maass says.) Lady.

Mährchen So we want to tell my lady. Queen. Sad or funny?

Lady. beyderley by genus, madam. Queen. None of beyden, girls. The
Frölich would be only the memories of my pain the more lively, because
they showed me the joy that I lack, and the Sad would be even more
Bekümmerniß thun Add to that that I already have. Lady. So we want
to sing, my lady. Queen . It is good if you have reason to, but you'd
like me better if you'd weep.

Lady. wish I could weep, madam, if you did better. queen. And I could
weep when I weep more made without Thräne that I would borrow from you.
But wait, here come the gardeners.

Let us in the shade of these trees hide - they are from the state
talking about how all the world, if a change is in the works.

(A gardener with garden zween boys occurs, the queen and her ladies
appear Bey page.)

Gardener. Go, bind thou Apricosen hanging on those who, like Athena unger
children, her father by her verschwendrisches weight drag on the ground,
support a bit prone branches.

Go thou, and cut off, like a message, which heads to hochaufschiessenden
perennials-plants that are too übermüthig in our nature to look
nasty.

In our government must have everything just Seyn.

In the meantime, so that their Seyde from here, I will go, and the
unnüze weed ausjäten, the healthy plants cut the food.

Boy. As it requires of us that we in the district of a fence, Geseze,
shape, and due Ebenmaaß observe and as a model in a state wolgeordneten
show? However, that our eingeschloßner from the sea garden, the whole
country is full of weed, its beautiful flowers zerknikt his fruitful
trees all ungepuzt his fences indented, its nodes are all confused,
and its healing plants by caterpillars swarm? Gardener. Du silence, one
whose spring so wild and unrestrained, has now when he leaves the
experience.

For a few seconds Beth was quite overcome, and then she whispered to
her father:

"I guess they're not shouting for me, but for Dollie.  I didn't really
want her to go so fast, but I couldn't stop her at first.  In fact, I
thought I was going to be killed, sure.  I am very, very glad I was not
thrown."

If she was glad, Mr. Davenport was more so, but he was still too
overcome to say much.  Beth was rather surprised to have him hug and
kiss her so often, for generally he was not a demonstrative man.

Presently Beth said:

"Papa, I know how to ride now, don't I?  And say, papa, I won a box of
candy from Cousin Lulu's beau."

One of the jockeys heard her.  He grinned his approval and said:

"She's got pluck enough to be one of us.  I reckon she's born with a
liking for horses.  My, didn't the old mare go!"


CHAPTER XI

Don Meets a Sad Fate

Marian and Beth were getting ready for bed.  Marian looked tragic.  She
brushed her hair so energetically that it seemed as if she must be
pulling it out by the handfuls.  Suddenly, she threw down the brush,
and clasped her hands dramatically.

"I simply must have the money."

Beth, interested, looked up at her,

"What's the matter, Marian?  I thought you had plenty of money.  You've
been saving your allowance for weeks to spend at the Fair."

"So I have, but I lost my pocketbook with every bit of the money at the
Fair to-day."

"Why, Marian Davenport," Beth gasped.

Marian burst into tears.  Beth rushed up to her sister and threw her
arms around her neck.

"I'm awfully sorry, Marian."

Marian brushed the tears away and continued:

"I hate to have papa and mamma think me so dreadfully careless, so I'm
not going to let them know, but I've just got to have some money.
Beth, won't you lend me part of yours?  I'll pay you just as soon as I
can get some more."

Beth hung her head.  "I'm awfully sorry, but I've spent all my money."

Marian looked at her in surprise.  "Why, Beth Davenport, how is that?"

Beth seated herself upon the floor.  "Well, Marian, you know both you
and I decided to buy mamma's birthday present before the Fair began for
fear we wouldn't have anything left to buy it with.  Well, after that I
had only a dollar."

"But that dollar was to last you all the week."

Beth took down a brush and brushed out the snarls while she talked.

"Yes, I know it was, but you see, Marian, Julia and Harvey were with me
to-day.  They were my guests.  Papa gave me the tickets to take them.
Well, it was dreadfully hot, and we did want some ice cream awfully, so
I asked them to have some.  There was thirty cents gone."

Marian looked judicial.  "Well, what about the other seventy?"

Beth brushed snarls so vigorously that she winced once or twice.

"Well, you may think me dreadfully foolish, but I invited them to the
Punch and Judy show.  That took thirty cents more."

"Well, but you still should have forty cents."

Beth stopped brushing and clasped her hands.

"Well, I just couldn't help it.  I--well, this is how it happened.  You
know papa gave Gustus tickets for the Fair for himself, his brothers
and sisters, and mamma let him have the afternoon off.  Well, just as
we came out of the Punch and Judy show we met them.  You know mamma
gives Gustus clothes, but the others looked dreadfully ragged.  I
stopped and spoke to them and asked them if they were going into the
show.  Marian, tears came into Gustus's eyes, as he said, 'Missy Beth,
the likes of us don't go to shows.  I'se never been to a show in my
life.'"

"Never been to a show in his life?  How was that, Beth?"

"That was just what I asked him, Marian.  I knew mamma paid him for
waiting on us.  He told me that he took all his money to his mother.
Marian, I just couldn't help it.  I spent my last forty cents for four
Punch and Judy tickets for four of them, and Harvey and Julia bought
some for the others.  Do you think we were foolish?"

Marian hesitated for an instant.

"I suppose I should have done the same thing in your place.  I am
awfully sorry, though, you haven't any money to lend me."

"Maybe my dress and cake will take prizes.  Then I'll have some to lend
you."

Beth could hardly wait for the last day of the exhibition to see if she
would be awarded any prize.  She thought that nothing could mar her
happiness if she received one.

The prices were decided upon on Friday night, but were not to be made
public until Saturday morning.  Beth was up bright and early,
therefore, on Saturday.  She was all impatience to be through breakfast
that she might learn her fate, but she found that she might as well
possess her soul in patience, as Maggie proved provoking, and would not
hurry in the least.

To pass away the time, Beth hunted up Don.  At sight of her, he barked
and wagged his tail.  She threw her arms about his neck.  "Yes, Don, I
know you're glad to see me, and I love you with all my heart.  Come on
and we'll have a play."

But, for some unaccountable reason, he did not seem ready for a frolic.
As soon as she let go of him, he walked back by the stable and lay down.

"Come on, Don," she called coaxingly.

He did not budge.  She stamped her foot impatiently.

"Oh, everybody's provoking this morning.  You're horrid and mean, Don,
and I don't believe I love you, after all."

He looked up at this.  His gaze seemed a reproach to her, but she grew
only the crosser.

"Oh, you needn't be looking that way at me.  You're lazy, and you know
it.  If you were sorry, you'd play with me.  No, I don't love you one
little bit."

She walked back to the house, and then sulked until the breakfast gong
sounded.

To make up for being somewhat late, Maggie had prepared an extra fine
meal.  Mr. and Mrs. Davenport and even Marian proved unusually
talkative that morning, and they started their breakfast very happily.
Beth, too, could not withstand the general good humor, and soon her
spirits began to rise.  She said, however:

"Do you know, that horrid old Don would not play with me this morning.
He----"

At that instant, January came running up on the piazza, where they were
eating breakfast.

"Missy Beth," he cried, "come quick; Don acts mighty queer.  'Pears
like he's dying."

Not only Beth, but Mr. and Mrs. Davenport and Marian jumped up from the
table and ran out to the barn.

They found the noble dog where Beth had left him.  He was, in truth, in
the very throes of death.

Beth fell on her knees beside him, and lifted his head upon her lap.
Tears were streaming from her eyes so that she could hardly see him.

"Don," she cried, "you know I didn't mean it.  You know I love you."

His fast glazing eye brightened momentarily at the sound of her voice.
If he could have spoken, he would have said:

"Little mistress, I never doubted your love.  I wasn't lazy.  You know
now why I wouldn't play."

"Oh, we must do something for him.  It would break my heart if he
died," cried poor Beth.

"I'm skeered it's too late, but mebbe, if I fotch," began January.  But
Don, with one long, loving look at Beth, gave up his breath with a
gasp, stretching out in the rigidity of death.

"It is too late," said Mr. Davenport huskily.

"No, no, no," cried Beth; "God wouldn't be so cruel as to let him die.
Don, look at me.  Dear old doggie, I love you, I love you."

But Don was beyond range of her call.  Mrs. Davenport and Marian were
crying softly, too, and there were tears even in the eyes of Mr.
Davenport and January.

"You'se breakfasts all gettin' cole," called Maggie, not knowing of the
trouble.

"Food would choke me," declared Marian.

"I couldn't eat either.  Do you want anything, James?" asked Mrs.
Davenport.

"No,--I'm not hungry now," there was a break in Mr. Davenport's voice.

"Clear off the table, Maggie.  Don is dead."

"Don dead?" cried Maggie, running out, "Why what am de mattah?"

"I 'lows he got hole some of de rat pizen," said January.

At sight of Beth's intense grief, Maggie's heart melted.

"Dar, dar, honey, don't yo' cry.  Yo'se pah'll get you anoder dog."

"I don't want another dog.  I--want--my--Don.  I want him, I'll never
be happy again," and Beth cried so hard that Mr. Davenport tried to
comfort her.

"Beth," he said, "I have some news that will make you happy.  I knew
all about it last night, but I wouldn't tell you because I wanted you
to find it out for yourself.  Both your dress and cake have taken
prizes--first prizes at that."

Her sobs did not lessen in the least.  She hid her face on her father's
shoulder and murmured:

"A hundred prizes wouldn't make up for dear old Don,--my dear old
doggie who saved my life."


CHAPTER XII

The Arrival of Duke

The death of Don so preyed upon Beth's spirits, that one night Mrs.
Davenport took her in her arms and said:

"Do you remember that once when I was sad about something, you slipped
your arms around my neck and asked, 'Mamma, what makes you think of the
unpleasant things? why don't you just think of the nice things?  That's
the way I do.'"

"Did I say that really?"

Mrs. Davenport smiled at the mournfulness of Beth's tones.

"Yes, dear, and now mamma wants you to practice what you preached.  I
think you and I will have to form a 'Pleasant Club.'  Every night we
will tell each other all the pleasant things that happen during the
day.  What do you say?"

The child nestled close to her mother.

"It would be nice, mamma, only nothing pleasant happens now that Don is
dead."

"Why, why," exclaimed Mrs. Davenport, "that isn't at all like my happy
Beth.  Put on your thinking cap and see if you can't remember something
nice that happened to-day."

Beth remained silent for a moment, and then suddenly smiled.

"Why, yes, mamma, now that I think of it, a whole lot of nice things
happened.  Do you know, ever since Don died, Julia has been perfectly
lovely.  She always plays just as I want to.  And what do you think?
Harvey played with Julia and me to-day, and he would never stay before
when Julia was here.  We even got him to play dolls with us, although
he said dolls were beneath a boy."

Mrs. Davenport smiled.  "Why should he feel that way?"

"Well, you see, mamma, he doesn't think much of girls and their play.
He's always saying to me, 'Beth, don't you wish you were a boy?'  So
one day I answered, 'No, indeed, Harvey.'  It wasn't quite the truth,
mamma, for I should like to be a boy, but I wouldn't let him know it.
Then I asked him:  'Don't you wish you were a girl, Harvey?'"

"What did he say, dear?"

"He grunted and said, 'Eh--be a girl?  I'd rather be nothing than be a
girl.'"

Mrs. Davenport could hardly keep her face straight; nevertheless, she
said gravely:

"If Harvey ever says that to you again, you tell him your mamma says
that girls are of just as much consequence as boys.  God would not have
created them otherwise.  Well, what else happened to-day?"

"Oh, Harvey offered me a bird's nest that he'd stolen.  Mamma, I
couldn't help scolding him about it.  You know papa doesn't think it
right.  So I had Harvey take the nest back."

"That was a good girl."

"And oh, mamma, I forgot to tell you how nice Marian has been.  This
afternoon after school, she made some candy for Julia and Harvey and
me.  It was just lovely.  And now that I think of it, Maggie has been
good too.  She hasn't scolded us once, although I guess we are in her
way very much sometimes."

Mrs. Davenport now kissed Beth good-night.

"Doesn't my little girl see that there never was a sorrow so great but
that it has its bright side?  You have much for which to be thankful,
dear, and you must try to be happy."

This talk helped Beth somewhat.  Nevertheless, for weeks thereafter, a
dog did not cross her path without bringing tears to her eyes.  And
many a night she cried herself to sleep, grieving for Don.

Sorrow, however, is not eternal, and comfort came to her from an
unexpected source.

One afternoon the Davenports were driving home from Jacksonville, when
Beth chanced to look back.  She thereupon uttered such an exclamation
of delight that Mr. Davenport, who was driving, pulled in on the horses.

"Oh, just see the beautiful dog!" exclaimed Beth.  "I believe he's
following us."

About three yards behind the carriage was a very large dog, but
possessing a grace and a swiftness of motion unusual to his size.  He
was not only beautiful, but also intelligent-looking.  His coat was of
dark brown, and smooth as sealskin, showing every muscle of his body.
His broad square head and monstrous jaw reminded the beholder of a
tiger.  His ears were close-cropped, which gave a compactness to his
head that brought into prominence his great changeable eyes: eyes that
the Davenports afterwards found so fiery sometimes that they reflected
red lights; at other times so mildly brown that they beamed with the
greatest affection.  The dog was a combination of Russian bloodhound
and mastiff.

"He looks the thoroughbred, through and through," declared Mrs.
Davenport.  "See how majestically he moves.  Duke would be a good name
for him.  Here, Duke.  Here, Duke."

At the call, the dog raised his head and came bounding up to the
carriage.  By a strange coincidence, Mrs. Davenport had hit upon his
name.

"Come here, Duke," cried Beth.

Large as the dog was, he jumped into the back part of the carriage
where Marian and Beth sat.  Both children were wild with delight.

"Papa, let's take him home with us," begged Marian.

Mr. Davenport, however, would not listen to the suggestion.

"He is a very valuable dog, and it would not be honorable," he
declared.  "Push him out immediately."

Both children began pleading, but Mr. Davenport proved relentless.
Therefore, Duke was finally put out of the carriage.

"Go home, Duke," cried Mr. Davenport, driving on.

The children looked back to see if the dog obeyed.  To their joy, they
saw him following as unconcerned as before.  Mr. Davenport took out the
whip and waved it at him.  Duke stopped a second or two, and then
started after them at a little greater distance.

"Well," said Mr. Davenport, "all we can do is to let him come with us
now.  To-morrow, I shall inquire in town and find his owner."

So Duke lodged at the Davenports that night, and was treated by the
children as a royal guest.  He captivated their hearts from the first,
and he fully responded to their love.

At breakfast the next morning, Mr. Davenport looked up from his paper
and said:

"Well, here is a notice of Duke's loss.  I do not wonder that he ran
away.  This Brown who advertises is one of the hardest drinkers in
town.  Poor dog, to have such a master."

"Papa, couldn't you buy Duke?" asked Beth.

"I may consider the matter.  Don't set your heart on the dog, however.
He is very valuable, and Brown may not wish to part with him."

That day, at noon, Beth and Duke were frolicing near the barn.
Suddenly, without seeming cause, Duke rushed towards the house, looking
crestfallen.  Beth, however, soon saw why Duke had run.  She beheld a
man walking up the driveway towards her.  She had grown accustomed to
Southern politeness, and resented the man's not raising his hat when he
said:

"Hello, little un.  I've come after my dog.  Where is he?"

Beth's heart sank.  "Who are you?" she stammered.

"My name is Brown, and I've come after Duke."

"But I thought my papa was going to buy him."

The man laughed.  "The old fellow did offer to buy him, but I wouldn't
sell.  I told him I wouldn't take a hundred dollars for the dog.  But
hurry up, little un, and get Duke for me."

Beth felt more resentful than ever.  The man had dared to call her
father "old fellow," and herself "little un."  Besides, he had come for
Duke.  There were tears in her eyes, but she brushed them angrily away,
and declared defiantly:

"You can hunt him up for yourself.  I don't know where he is."

The man swore under his breath, and muttered something about having no
use for people who tried to steal dogs.  However, he moved on towards
the house.

There is something in me that I vorrükt my fault, but it is such a
stubborn hard errors, allegations that he may not be interesting.

Viola. The duke, my master is in the case nemlichen.

Olivia.

Here, wear this jewel to my memory and it contains my picture, it does
not hit, it has no tongue to vex you, and I ask you, come again
tomorrow.

What could you desire from me, with the honor to be kan, and I would
refuse you? Viola. I ask for nothing but your love for my Lord. Olivia.
How can I give honor to him with what I already had?

Viola. I will keep you whose Quitt. Olivia.

Well, come again tomorrow, farewell - (She goes from -) A devil of
your form would have, could my soul to hell Loken - Twelfth and
dreyzehnte Scene.

(Sir Tobias announces the terrible wrath of Sir Andrew and his challenge
to the disguised Cäsario, it has enough trouble of its few Muth to
such a Zweykampf to hide. Tobias finally promised him his good services
to the cause of the least cruel disgrace to inquire Cäsario nothing
which deserves to have been aware, and where possible the wüthenden
Sir Andrew into something to pacify.

Tobias is as if he were to end this off, however, because of poor
Fabian continues Viola Schreker einzujagen, and their opponents as
the best Fechter and the fatal adversary known throughout Illyria
could find, abzumahlen.

They go from order to Sir Tobias Plaz to give in the following scene,
his friend Andreas just as in a peace-loving Gemüths constitution
Sezen.

He describes his Cäsario entrenched as a devil, that of the Sophi-yard
fencing master had sey, and no shock to thun care, the wound is
not a tödtliche doing. geräth Andreas on to such fear, that he
promised him he would give his best horse, if he thing is to let
wanted.

However, coming back Cäsario with Fabian, who, when he Andreas erblikt
to all the saints to recommend a start, without to become aware
that as a memme Andreas schlottert.

Sir Tobias goes from one to another, says every one, his opponents would
be nothing in the world, placate, and brings them at last that
they, reluctantly enough, to draw the sword begin what anything on
the theater scene is extremely ridiculous to do it.)

Fourteenth Scene. (By drag and viola with tearful voice protested that
it be done against their will, Antonio comes about through the A
complete similarity between her and her brother and betrayed by her
disguise, she for his young friend Sebastiano committed itself to
funding proposes, and that he may now insulted Theil Seyn or insult,
so do his thing on his own.

Sir Tobias of resent it, that spoiled his fun to be explained if the
Neuangekommne to Cäsarios Secundanten rise, so he wanted his man Seyn;
alone is unlikely to have drawn, then the guard, whose Bey Erblikung
Viola Sir Andrew asks his sword again einzusteken, which is not to
say it zweymal.

Antonio, which, as you know , apply to the disgraced Duke had been
verrathen. The guard looked at him, and because she said the description
made, found her husband who thinks he is in command of the Duke
Orsino in arresting taken.)

Antonio (after he in vain had verläugnen want.) I must obey. (For
Cäsario.)

That meets me because I tell you everywhere April.

But this is now no remedy.

I will be responsible for knowing.
But I'll
outwit the ugly beast yet.  It seems as if I couldn't keep him from
you, but I'll get the better of him yet.  Last night I locked him in a
room in the barn where all the lower sashes are barred with iron.  He
kept me awake howling most of the night.  Not till morning was he
quiet.  I thought I'd conquered him, but when I went to the barn my dog
was gone.  I found the upper glass in one of the windows broken, and
saw that he must have jumped and escaped that way, though it seems
incredible."

"That's the way he cut himself," declared Marian, giving Duke a parting
love pat.

That day, Mr. Brown, by means of a heavy chain, led Duke down to one of
the river boats.

"Keep an eye on this dog," he said to the captain; "I'll chain him up
well here.  At Silver Lake a man'll come aboard for him.  I'm sending
him there because he runs away."

Duke howled so pitifully that after the boat was well under way from
Jacksonville one of the sailors took pity on him and unloosed him,
supposing him perfectly safe aboard boat in midwater.

However, Duke was not to be hindered by obstacles.  With one bound, he
leaped to the side of the boat and jumped overboard.

"Well," the captain muttered, "I don't know what Brown'll say, but it
can't be helped."

Duke swam immediately to shore.  There one of the wharf hands saw him
as he landed, and exclaimed:

"Why, that's Brown's dog.  Perhaps he'll give me something if I take
him home."

So the wharf hand caught Duke and took him up to Brown's home at noon.
Brown, who had been drinking and was in a very unpleasant mood, was
struck with amazement at sight of the dog.  He gave the wharf hand some
small change, and, when he was gone, took Duke into the back yard and
beat him.  Next, he tied the dog with an extra heavy chain.

"There," he exclaimed, "you're stronger than I think you are if you
break that."

Ill-usage had thoroughly aroused Duke.  When Mr. Brown was out of
sight, he struggled so vigorously that the collar around his neck
worked into the raw flesh.  Undaunted, however, he struggled on until
he again broke his fetters.  Away he bounded over the four miles to the
Davenports'.  Needless to say, the children were overjoyed to see him.

To their surprise, Mr. Brown did not appear that day, nor the following
morning.  Consequently, Mr. Davenport went up to his house at noon, and
asked to see him.  Brown by this time was sober, and at heart ashamed
of his treatment of Duke.

"Brown," said Mr. Davenport in greeting, "I've come to tell you that
your dog is out at our place again."

"I supposed as much," he answered curtly.

"Well, why haven't you been out for him?"

"It's labor lost.  I can't keep the dog."

Mr. Davenport hesitated a moment.

"Brown, perhaps we've been somewhat to blame in this matter, but,
really, I couldn't help the children's making a fuss over the dog.
Beth, my youngest child, was grieving herself sick over the death of a
favorite dog, and Duke won her heart at once.  For her sake, I'd be
very glad if you'd sell the dog."

"I won't sell the dog."

Mr. Davenport walked to the door.

"I don't see that there is anything that I can do then except to send
Duke back to you.  I'll have one of my darkies bring him in to-morrow
morning."

Mr. Brown did not answer a word.  However, when Mr. Davenport was
halfway down the steps, he stopped him and said:

"I'm the only one to blame.  I see that love is more powerful that
hate.  Tell your little girl to keep the dog.  I make her a present of
him with one condition.  If you ever leave Florida, I want the dog
back.  Good-morning."

Before Mr. Davenport could utter a word, Brown closed the door as if
fearful of gratitude.


CHAPTER XIII

Anxious Hours

One day, a strange white dog appeared at the Davenports'.  No one knew
whence she came.  Perhaps Duke enticed her to the house.  He tried to
bespeak Beth's interest by barking vigorously and jumping up and down
wildly, as if begging the child to keep her.

At first, it was hard for Beth to feel any interest in the dog.  It was
fearfully thin, and always acted as if it expected to be kicked.  It
had one redeeming feature in that its eyes were very beautiful.  They
were large and brown, with a mildly pathetic look that appealed to
Beth's soft heart so that she decided to keep the dog.

For the first few days the newcomer sneaked under the house when any
one was around.  When she saw, however, that she was left unmolested,
she gained courage.  Duke was all devotion, and the white dog thrived
under such attention.  She freshened up so well that Beth wondered how
she ever thought the dog ugly.  Kindness and good food work wonders
with dogs as well as with people.  The days of her stay lengthened into
months.

One morning, Beth came running in from the barn, her eyes brilliant
from excitement.

"Mamma, mamma," she called, "what do you think?  White dog"--they had
never given her a name--"has seven of the cutest little puppies you
ever saw.  Duke took me out and showed them to me."

"Duke took you out?"

"Yes, mamma.  When I went out to play with him this morning he caught
hold of my dress and tried to pull me towards the barn.  I thought he
was just playing; but when he did it the second time, I followed him,
and he led me to white dog and the puppies.  Oh, they're the cutest
things you ever saw."

[Illustration: "The cutest things you ever saw."]

Beth watched the growth of the puppies with great interest.  She was
delighted when their eyes opened, and when they began to run around she
was almost too happy for words.

That night she said to her papa: "I've been thinking about Mr. Brown.
He must miss Duke awfully.  He wasn't such a horrid man after all, or
he wouldn't have let me keep Duke."

Mr. Davenport smiled.  "Beth, a man was talking to me about him to-day.
The man said Brown was trying to reform; that he hadn't taken any
liquor for some time past.  I was very glad to hear it."

Beth pondered a minute or two, then asked:

"Do you think if he had a dog now he'd be nice to it?"

"Yes, I believe he would.  Brown wasn't half bad except when he drank.
But you're not thinking of giving Duke back to him, are you?"

Beth shook her head very vigorously.  "I couldn't do that, papa.  I
love Duke too much."

She said no more but got out paper and pencil.  She was backward in all
schooling at this time, and could only print.  However, she sat down at
the table beside her father and went to work.  Even my father was
a warrior, my father's father also, and so on through all grades. Their
blood beating in these veins, your strength stählt these fist, And
I will be here idle dream, shows how anyone laurels culls from the
field of honor fruit break from life, And peace to myself 'damn?

Zanga. You shall not!

the sky, not! If you like, a Lord, then Yes, because if it were not,
this uncle, that you Muhme hanging like heavy shackles - Rustan. Let us
talk of what other things!

From what other things, Zanga.

Zanga. Seht you?

soft Then your heart, And the intent is for the executioner. Oh that
I could have you out there, outside the muffled Tale, On the
heights, the peaks in the world unermeßnen!

Lord, your should speak differently! See only until Schlachtgefild
', just listen until trumpets sounding, And it will force you
penetrate, as it fills veins.

Lord, I was also so wählig times, as I certainly young enough, my
first weapon was .

Ging me in the head back and forth, my heart Was it difficult
centners; When it was called against the enemy! suggested it's because
with hard blows, And the night before the battle even Ward anxious
to persuade.

But at the first sunbeam Ward's clear to me with a Mal Ha! there
were two armies, countless as the sands of the seas, Still and
silent hinum Well, Badlands, as the fog horror, nor lay on the
fields and meadows.

The smell smoke was seen from the flash's beam of the spikes, And
now as the fog important, indicated horse and rider to feel As I
walk to my heart, and any doubt was defeated ward's clear that in
doing and acting, not in the brooding 's life is. erschallt And now
as the characters, both armies to reach , chest to chest, like gods!

across, over, now enemies, now brothers murder Stretches of steel down.
Receive and give The death and life in the changing exchange,
staggering in the wild rush.

The skies shook, the earth trembles from Pferdegestampf, lute toset the
battle. The enemy, they falter, the opponents, they differ, we, brave
and fleeing after the Jach, over friend and enemy corpses.

Now on the far field shrike keeps overlooking the fallen ears, but he
can not resist the joy.

Victory, call it victory, Mr, that is live! Long live the war! Rustan.
Oh, just a! You killest me! Zanga. If such a prisoner, A Sales speaks,
a slave, What shall be first - but still! Enough!

(He pulls back.) (Mirza comes from the hut.) Mirza. Rustan! Rustan. Ha,
one ways; the point! Mirza.

You're it! Did you so bored? Oh, and we trembled for you. Rustan.

Is it so unusual? Mirza. Unusual? The unlikely, but no less painful
drum.
"Mamma, come and hear the concert," she cried.

"What concert?"

"Come with me and you'll see, if they'll do it again.  It's the
funniest singing you ever heard."

Beth led her mother to the barn.

"Where are the singers?" asked Mrs. Davenport.

"Wait," answered Beth, calling the dogs to her.  Then she began singing
and the dogs began howling, holding their heads high in the air.  Duke,
however, proved lazy.  He would come in only once in a while with his
deep bass, but this made the effect more funny.

Mrs. Davenport laughed over the performance until her sides ached.
That afternoon Beth and the dogs had another concert for the benefit of
Mr. Davenport and Marian.  In the evening the Gordons and the Bakers
called, and, hearing of the wonderful concert, they insisted upon a
repetition of it.  The lantern was brought in, therefore, and, with
Beth heading the procession, the party adjourned to the barn.  The dogs
were asleep, but at the first sound of Beth's shrill little voice, they
all, even to the smallest pup, pricked up their ears, and then howled
in concert.  After that Beth's concert became famous.  People drove out
from Jacksonville to see and hear the canine musicale.  After a time
Beth trained the dogs so that they would sit up in a row on their hind
legs while they sang.  They were apparently carried away by the music,
and appeared quite human in their vanity, swaying their bodies and
rolling their eyes in a very ludicrous manner, while howling an
accompaniment to Beth's singing.

[Illustration: January with his perpetual laugh and fiddle.]

Duke greatly endeared himself to the Davenports by his wonderful
sagacity.  He could almost talk.  One of the very smartest things he
ever did happened in this wise:

Beth had a sudden attack of fever.

"We must have a doctor," said Mrs. Davenport.

Beth overheard the remark.  Since her experience of the stitches under
her nose, she hated all doctors; so she declared:

"I don't want any horrid doctor.  I'll get well without one.  Really I
will."

Mrs. Davenport laid a cooling hand on her head, and said soothingly:

"Can't you trust mamma to do what is best?"

Thereupon she gave private instructions to Mr. Davenport to get a
doctor as soon as possible, after which she neglected all work, trying
to keep Beth quiet.

Two little kittens, brothers of those brought by Gustus in the winter,
crawled up on the lounge ready for play.  Even their antics tired Beth.
When the doctor came, he looked serious over the child's condition.

"She must be put to bed immediately," was his first order.

"I'll have her carried up-stairs," said Mrs. Davenport.

The doctor was a very blunt man and declared plainly:

"She's too sick to be moved.  Have a bed brought in here if you can."

Without arguing the question, Mrs. Davenport ordered the servants to
bring down an iron cot.  Her commands were carried out quietly and with
haste, and soon Beth was undressed and in bed.  She was delirious by
this time, and did not even note that a doctor was present.

He studied the case silently for a few minutes.  He was a well-meaning
man, but a doctor of the old school.  He believed that if medicine was
a good thing, the more one took the better.  Also, if dieting was good,
semi-starvation was better.

He therefore wrote out five or six prescriptions, all of very strong
drugs.  He also ordered that she should be fed only on gruels.

Duke seemed to grieve over Beth's illness extremely.  He would not play
with the puppies, and would eat hardly anything.  At first, he walked
into the room where Beth was and lay down beside her cot.  When he saw
he was in the way there, he took up his position on the piazza outside
the door, and could hardly be induced to move.  Even white dog failed
to entice him away.

Anxious times followed for the Davenports.  The fear of losing Beth
made each member of the family realize, as never before, how very dear
the little, mischievous child was to them.  She was mischievous no
longer, however.  She was so patient that Mrs. Davenport feared more
than ever that she would die.  Often Beth would smile so beatifically
that her mother thought she must be thinking of angels and heaven.

"Dearie, of what are you thinking?" she once asked.

Beth's face was illumined with a more heavenly light than ever as she
drew a long breath and answered:

"Oh mamma, I was thinking how good some Bologna sausage, or anything
besides horrid old gruel, would taste."

The truth of the matter was that the child was half-starved.  Still the
doctor insisted that she should have nothing but mutton or rice gruel,
and those only in very small quantities.  Under such treatment she
wasted to a mere shadow of her former chubby self.

She proved a tyrant in one respect, in that she would have no one but
her mother to watch her.  If Mrs. Davenport left the room when Beth was
awake, Beth at once worried herself into a high fever.  The strain was
telling upon Mrs. Davenport, but so great was her anxiety that she
would hardly take needed rest.

One day Beth was asleep, and Maggie tip-toed into the room and
whispered to Mrs. Davenport:

"Dear Miss Mary, won't yo' please let dis ole mammy watch de honey lamb
for jes' a little while.  Yo' knows I lub her wid all my heart, an' I
wouldn't let nuffin harm de pet for de world.  Yo' go into de odder
room an' rest awhile.  If de precious lamb wants yo', I'll call right
away, honest."

Thus urged, Mrs. Davenport decided to grant Maggie's request, and she
left the room without disturbing Beth's slumbers.

Maggie sat down by the cot.  The sight of Beth so emaciated melted
Maggie almost to tears.  She thus soliloquized:

"Dat horrid ole medicine man, he jes' ought to be made to live on
gruels de rest of his life, so he ought.  It's jes' ter'ble to starve
de chile de way he does.  I'd like to be her doctah awhile.  I'd order
chicken and possum, an'----"

Suddenly Beth's eyes opened.  "Maggie, what did you cook for dinner
to-day?"

Maggie confided to her husband afterwards:

"Law, Titus, does yo' tink I could sit up dar an' tell dat precious
chile we had chicken when I knew her little stomack was jes' groanin'
for chicken?  No, 'deed.  Do I am deaconess, I'd rather be burned for a
lie.  So I jes' answers as pert-like as pos'ble.  'Law, honey, we jes'
had mutton like yo'r brof is made of.'"

Beth, however, was not to be deceived.  Her senses had grown unusually
acute during her sickness.  She pointed her finger at Maggie and said:

"Maggie, that's not true.  And therefore fluctuate Gang, With so poorly
you wanted to mute half the reign shoots you up the steep path to
great power and climb You Rank?

Bunt gemengt from some substances Roherz Is the violence of the
fire Hardly toes rich Gnügt which mix offset in the pot and cook
wallt; But a Säkul only in the neck, the previous ones we hold,
fire reintegration of metal slag, and the King shines like gold.

But you could not endure, Eng sense, the eyes only well, Will you win,
you must dare, because the low turn! Rustan.

It can be heard by the servant, the outrage from donors, volunteers!
Zanga. helpers?

Donors? Perhaps, but servant? Let me laugh! Whose servant? where the Lord?
herabgestiegen Are not you, not fallen from the height, The dir
attribute my fingers, because the missing giants will mächt'gen
courage to act boldly?

DC umfängt us guilt and punishment, on the same claim, rank and
power, and how in the mother's womb the same, look the same as us
the night.

Rustan. Well, Well, so both of us rett! sense on Appropriations, get
at me, because what way would you know of such deeds? Zanga. Which
way? Betray you! Or do you think small Sold pay the man who
delivers you from? Oh, your head is vain Gold! Rustan (a blow after
his leader). Devil! Monster! Zanga (with the sword, which he exposes
the mantle worn, the string field and his saber from his hand
hitting).

Halt! Then, I was prepared.

Exercise caution with your Lord, the despair is even happy! And what keeps
me from now, you like the langgedehnten steel Gradaus in the chest
push, so the practitioner own revenge, Des zertretnen country thing
a string with a time?

And yet no; Schrick not back! Have you equal a weak student, Have
but my students always, The structure of my hands Ehr myself still
broken.

Escape you, I will stay here; Collect your fortune rubble, sun
myself in a new sheen, you gilts wage is dead to me.

(After showing the background.) where your way! After centrifugal
there!

Rustan. Zanga, nor for the last time! Go with me! Think what I was, how
the people I gehuldigt; think of grace, which I also piled on you, whether
your head. Zanga.

When you accused me of murder, because you believed in me helpless?
Rustan.

One and all was forgotten! I'm wounded, help me!

failure of the path, the area acquainted. Zanga. Not in the area?

Ha, ha, ha! Look around you, it is the same, where you saved the king,
you and an even more especially, those where you hit others.

You see there the dark bridge?

You, the way to happiness, whether now the evil path. Rustan. Woe to
me, alas! Zanga (pointing at the bridge). After centrifugal there!

Rustan. I never enter it! out there! (After the right turn.)

Zanga. egg yes! ei ja! But the remarks only Flämmchen, The rings
durchziehn the area.

Are not the ghost Erschlagnen, Warrior's are the torches bear thee
Seekers!

Rustan (left track). Well, back to back road along which we came. (Distant
trumpet sounds from the left side.)

Zanga. Horch! What seems to you from the sound? The pursuers also in
back, you're confined, umgarnt, you still do not trust the one who
warns? Where your way!

Rustan (the rising path upwards to enter, which is the bridge hinanführt
are binding). I can not can not! If I ever married you! Zanga.
Mrs. Davenport said:

"We'll send January to town to see if we can get a rabbit or a quail."

An hour later January returned and reported: "Dere ain't no rabbit or
no bird in de market, Miss Mary."

Beth was very much disappointed, but was pacified, however, by the
assurance that darkies would be sent out to hunt rabbits in the
morning.  She even consented to take a little rice gruel, cheered by
the prospects of having something better on the morrow.

In the morning, when the darkies were ready for hunting rabbits, Mrs.
Davenport said to Duke:

"Go with them, old fellow.  Perhaps you can chase a rabbit down for
your little mistress.  She wants a rabbit very, very much."

He seemed to understand, for he rose and went with the hunters.  Rabbit
hunting was his favorite pastime.  Therefore he displayed the first
signs of joy that he had shown since Beth's sickness.  He bounded
lightly across the fields, sniffing the ground expectantly.

At first the darkies were encouraged by his manner, and followed him on
and on.  When, however, they had gone many miles, and most of the
forenoon passed without Duke's scaring up a single rabbit for them,
they became discouraged.  In fact, they returned to the house and
reported their ill-luck to Mrs. Davenport.

"I reckon dis ain't time for rabbits.  We didn't see a single one all
dis time."

"Where is Duke?" asked Mrs. Davenport.

The darkies grinned.  "Oh, dat fool dog, he ain't no sense at all.  We
tried to get him to come wid us, but he went on sniffin' as if he was
jes' bound to have a rabbit, even when dar ain't none."

"Well," said Mrs. Davenport, with feeling, "I only wish you had half
the perseverance of Duke.  If he could understand like you, he would go
until he dropped before he'd give up."

She therefore had to go to Beth and report their failure.  The poor
child cried and cried, she was so very much disappointed.

"I'll--I'll starve, and I'm so terribly hungry," she moaned.

"Dearie, if you'll only take some gruel, I'll get you the most
beautiful doll you ever saw, or a ring, or anything you wish."

At the moment, even this promise failed in appealing to Beth.  She
desired rabbit more than anything else in the world.

"Won't you please try some gruel, dear?  Won't you, to please me?"

"I'll--I'll try, but I don't believe I can swallow a bit of the nasty
stuff.  I want rabbit."

Mrs. Davenport hurried away to get the gruel.

Left to herself, Beth continued to cry.

"I don't believe God cares for me, or He'd have sent me a rabbit.  I
asked Him last night when I prayed.  Miss Smith"--her Sunday-school.
teacher--"says God always answers prayer if it is good for one, and I'm
sure rabbit is good for me."

The tears came a little faster.

"She says, though, one must ask awfully hard.  Perhaps I don't ask hard
enough.  I'll ask again."

Beth folded her hands and closed her eyes.

"Dear God, I can't eat gruel any more.  I'll die if I have to eat
gruel, and I don't want to die.  I want rabbit."

It would seem that the days of miracles had not passed; for even while
she prayed, she felt two paws rest on her cot.  She opened her eyes and
there was Duke waiting impatiently for her to notice him.  She could
hardly believe her eyes, for in his mouth he held a little live rabbit
as if for her to take it.  To make sure she was not dreaming, she
stretched forth her hand for the rabbit.  Duke let her take it without
offering the least resistance.  In fact, he looked at her as much as to
say:

"I heard them say that my little mistress wanted a rabbit.  I was bound
she should have a rabbit, and here it is."

Mrs. Davenport entered the room.  "Here is your broth, dear."

"Take it away," cried Beth exultingly.  "I'm going to have a rabbit.
God sent Duke to bring me one.  Wasn't he good not to eat it
himself--he always used to eat them when he caught them, and God was so
good to me, too."

The speech appeared a little ambiguous to Mrs. Davenport, but it was
all very plain to the child.

Never did a stew seem more delicious to any one than did that rabbit
stew to Beth.  In fact, it proved a turning point with her, the fever
subsiding thereafter very rapidly.


CHAPTER XIV

The Rescue

With the elasticity of childhood, Beth grew well rapidly, and was once
more her mischievous self.

One evening about the middle of May, Mr. and Mrs. Davenport and Marian
went up the river a short distance to a party, and invited the Gordons
to drive with them.

Julia came over to spend the night with Beth, and Mrs. Davenport
arranged for Maggie to stay in the house, that the girls might not be
alone.  Duke, also, was kept within doors for protection.

The girls passed a pleasant evening, and retired rather late.  Duke
followed them up to their room, and went to sleep just outside the
door, which they left open on his account.  Maggie slept in a room at
the end of the hall.

Gustus that night had sneaked out to see some of his friends.  He had
stayed so late that he feared to return through the dark.  Still he
dreaded even more the scolding that he would get if he were missed in
the morning.  So he started home, whistling as he went, to keep up his
spirits.  Suddenly his attention was attracted by a reddened sky in the
direction of the Davenport home.

"Foh de Lawd's sake," he muttered, "dat do look like our home wuz
burnin' for sure.  Jes' s'pose it wuz.  Little missy am thar an' might
burn.  I'd jes' bettah take to my heels, an' run as fas' as ever I kin,
an' see."  He ran a few steps, and then stopped.  Besides the red in
the sky, he thought he saw sparks flying.  His heart rose in his mouth.

"Jes' s'pose dat dar fire am de work ob de debbil.  He might be waitin'
dar spoutin' out fire to kotch me.  Dat's it.  I won't go near dar all
by myself.  I'll jes' go back."

He turned, and ran a few steps the other way, and then halted again.

"Jes' s'pose dat ain't de debbil, but a real shure nuff fire.  Den
missy'll burn, an' I'll be to blame.  I jes' ought to go an' see, but
what if it am de debbil?  Den he'll hab me sure nuff, an' dat'd be
worser dan burnin'."

The Davenports' home was really on fire.  It was never discovered how
the fire started.  The only plausible explanation was a defective flue
in the kitchen stove, but it could never be proved.

The house was built of fat pine, and the fire spread with alarming
rapidity.  First the kitchen burst into a mass of flames that leaped
along the roof of the piazza to the main part of the building.  There
had been no rain for some time, and the dry wood proved as combustible
as if oil had been applied.  The sparks flew over all the house until
it was one blaze of fire.  The servants were sleeping in their
quarters, and did not discover the terrible danger of the inmates of
the house.

Maggie and the children slept on, and it seemed as if there would be no
awakening until it was too late, unless Gustus ran to the rescue.

The flames crackled as if trying to rouse the poor, innocent sleepers,
but still they slept.  The fire rushed on and on as if anxious to wipe
out the precious human lives before help arrived.  Even Duke slept, and
the silly superstition of Gustus might prove the death of those he
loved.

"White folks ain't scared ob de debbil like us black people.  Dey
nebber see tings de way we do.  Maybe de debbil only 'pears to us kose
we's black like he am.  If dar wuz only a white person wid me, dey
wouldn't be scared to go an' see if it were a fire or de debbil.  I
ought to find out which it am.  De fire might burn Missy Beth, and de
debbil might carry her off if he don't kotch me.  De debbil nebber goes
'way empty-handed."

Gustus tarried, harrowed by his superstition, but with love trying to
master fear.  Unless love conquered quickly, he would be too late to
save her whom he worshiped.

"Missy Beth's been powerful good to me," he moralized to himself.  "She
wouldn't let me burn, nor she wouldn't let de debbil carry me off.  She
always tells me dar's nuffin to fear only my own b'liefs, but if she
was black like me she'd know bettah.  She's white like an angel, an'
angels only see glory.  Yes, she's an angel, an' God will save her.  He
won't let de debbil hab her nor de fire scorch her."

Trying to ease his conscience thus, he once more turned away from the
fire as if the struggle were ended, but real love is never conquered.
It still tugged at the heart strings of Gustus.

"God's far, far away.  It's night, an' maybe He sometimes snoozes like
de rest ob us.  Den Missy Beth's in danger, an' unless I help her.  God
won't know anything 'bout it.  I have it.  I'll go an' wake Massa
Harvey.  He'll know what to do."

Gustus ran towards the Baker homestead which was the next place to the
Davenports'.  Love had gained a half victory, but half victories are
always dangerous.  He might rouse Harvey, but unless God intervened in
some way, Harvey would be too late, and his friend would burn.

On ran Gustus, while the fire raged more and more fiercely.  Its fiery
tongues leaped out nearer and nearer the children, Maggie, and Duke,
sure to devour them unless God vouchsafed some other warning besides
the one that had been given Gustus.  He had been tried and found
wanting.

"Massa Harvey, Massa Harvey," Gustus cried a few minutes later, under
the window of the room where he knew Harvey slept.  "For God's sake,
come an' save Missy Beth."

Harvey wakened out of a sound sleep.  He thought he was dreaming, but
again he heard the agonized appeal:

"Massa Harvey, for God's sake, save Missy Beth."

Harvey sprang to the window.  "What's the matter, Gustus?"

"I think de debbil am after Missy Beth," moaned Gustus, who had decided
that it was the Evil One instead of a real fire.

His words gave Harvey no lucid idea of the situation.  He feared Beth
was in danger, but he little realized the urgency of the case.
However, he did not stop to question, but slipped into his clothes as
fast as he could, and went below to join Gustus.  His parents had gone
to the party, and he did not waken any of the servants.

The minute he opened the front door, one look to the right revealed the
awful truth to him.

"Is Beth there?" he gasped to Gustus who had run around to the door to
join him.

"I reckon so.  Yo' won't let de debbil get her."

"The devil?  It's worse.  It's fire.  She'll burn," cried Harvey in
agony, tearing across the fields as fast as he could.  Gustus followed
trembling in every limb.  He realized now that he had been a coward,
that if his beloved little "missy" burned, he would be greatly to blame.

"I didn't know," he moaned to himself, and then his cry changed to a
prayer, "Dear God, don't let her burn.  Don't let her burn," he pleaded
as he ran, pitifully penitent.

As Harvey flew towards the burning house, his thought dwelt on the
other fire from which he and Beth had been saved.

"God won't let her burn.  He won't do it," he cried to himself, and yet
half fearful that the fire demon which seemed to pursue Beth might
conquer this time.

"De Good Book says dat if we ask anything, an' believe, dat it will be
granted us," gasped Gustus as if reading Harvey's doubts.  "Let's both
pray as hard as ever we kin dat God'll save Missy Beth, an' He'll do
it."

The faith expressed by the superstitious colored boy heartened Harvey
somewhat.  He ran on as fast as ever, but both in his heart and in that
of Gustus was the prayer that Beth might be saved.

That prayer was answered.  After the colored boy was found wanting, an
animal was used as God's messenger.  The fire awakened Duke.  The air
all around him was full of smoke that almost choked him.  He realized
there was danger, but he thought more of another that he loved than of
his own safety.  With a bound, he sprang through the open doorway
barking wildly.  He leaped up on the bed where the children slept.  He
had no words in which to warn them of danger, but the ways of God are
above those of men, and weak instruments prove strong in His hands.

Julia and Beth wakened at the same instant.

"What is it, Duke?" cried Beth only half awake, for the dog was pulling
wildly at her night-dress.  The smoke answered her question.  Both of
the girls knew that Duke was warning them that the house was on fire.
They jumped out of bed, and ran to the door.  The fire now was fast
breaking into the house.

"What shall we do?" gasped Beth at sight of the smoke and flames
circling around the stairs at the end of the hall.

"We can climb down the piazza," answered Julia turning towards it.
Beth started to follow her, but a thought stopped her.

"If we go that way Maggie'll burn.  I must try to warn her."

"But we'll choke to death," cried Julia, carried away for a moment by
the terror fire has for the bravest.

"I can't help it.  I can't let Maggie burn.  You can climb down the
piazza, but I'm going to try to reach Maggie," answered Beth, going
towards the hall, with Duke at her heels.

It was a terrible temptation to Julia to take Beth at her words.  She
feared that Death waited in the hall.  The thought made Julia shiver
notwithstanding the sickening heat that was beginning to fill the
house.  Her face blanched, but it was no whiter than that of Beth, who
felt fully as strongly as Julia the danger she ran in trying to save
Maggie.

"Let's wrap ourselves in blankets," cried Julia seizing two from the
bed, and throwing one to Beth.  Zanga! Early morning the horses! Zanga.
Cheers! (He follows the two. From all three.) Rustan. They are continuing
- but it knocks timidly!

It is indeed sweet and well .-- Whether -- Fort - I am heard, And wish
as long slumbered, now kick me out before waking. Seid greeted her
Holden pictures, with Be jubilation greeted me, I'm tired, forehead
pressed, fatigue easily procure the limbs.

(After the camp, looking.) Well, Well!

Again ruhn muffled In the space of the hut, Forces gather künft'gen deeds,
then freed on forever.

(He sits on the bed rest, harp tone sounds from the outside.) Horch!
What is it? Harp tones? Well, the old Klimprer close? (In semi-recumbent
position, with the upper body erect.

He speaks the words of the song after that now with the harp tones connect.)
"Shadows of life goods, the shadow of his joys Scharnstein, shadow
words , desires, deeds, only the thoughts are true.

And the love that you feel and the good that you're doing, and no
guards than in sleep, When you once ruhst in his grave. " Antics!

Antics! Andre Pictures Are Here inside awake. (He falls back. The harp
sounds continue forever.) King! Zanga! Weapons! Arms (Music Polyphonic
quietly intervenes in the harp tones. To the bed heads and feet to
dive two boys.

The one that buntgekleidet, went out with a torch, the second in brown
garb with a burning. Rustan About Bette way they are approaching
each other with flares. The of Buntgekleideten ignites the Dark extinguished
its against the earth.) (As to open the wall of the background. clouds
veil the view. you stand out. The area in which the second act,
is visible, covered by veils . Again, this is dwindling. A first, a
second one. The area is open there. In addition to the fore in the palm
tree stands out in a large wide rings gold shiny snake to its lowest
leaves hinanstrebend gradually upwards. Rustan makes a movement in sleep
.) (The curtain falls.)

Second Lift (Waldgegend. In the background rock, which separates a
mountain stream and a bridge connects. Right fore in an isolated rock
standing on its forward side a Spring inward source and presence of
Moosbank. Compared to the left single palm tree.) (Rustan and Zanga
come.) Rustan. Freedom! Ha, with long trains schlürf me your airwaves
one. In the morning I am seeing purple slip your banners fly, The Höhn,
the sky wide tent set up around you, all living in a sign of the
wide realms of creation.

Freedom!

Breath of Nature, the pointer to Weltenuhr Everything Great cradle
'and the throne, take him to the new son, let my Stammeln you like,
you're mother of all!

Zanga. Lord, and now enough geschwärmt. Now let us Nöt'germ speak. Rustan.
Needed? Nöt'germ? Oh, do not think, let me feel jetzo yet! No more
smoke in the cabin, confined by words and worry, through bidding, through
prohibitions; free, my own lord and king.

Like the bird from the nest, now for the first time trying The still
untested wings. shuddering whether he is the abyss, The angähnt him. He
dares you? Should he? He's trying, he proposes the wings - and it
helps him, and it stresses him.

Plasticized he swims in warm air, rises upwards, rises the voice, sounds
even lend ears, And now, only now born .

So I feel in the space, should like to climb all the mountains would
like to drink from all sources, foliage and trees, I would like to
greet, I'm only a man and a man Zanga. just to talk, 's has no
hurry, I refresh myself meanwhile.

(He sits down.) Rustan. Zanga, no!

Not ruhn not stop until our work began.

Zanga. Our plant? How do you act so, consider, think, seek? (He is
on.) Well, I am at your service. Rustan.

Fort, and on to Samarkand! Only the top of those hills Sah fire towers
in the sun radiant, I reflect, we are there, anyway she vanished.
Zanga. Only in this way, and on good luck?

Lord, blessed to once to die, Remember me at all to the end, but do you
want a Tücht'ger, live, Sun is considering and checks the beginning,
because the end comes from himself.

Enter at unknown, Lord, and strauchelt on the threshold, Does your
clumsy master, your Sprächt, as the seven sages; friends who's in
the cup was full of laughter at throat , Sehn it again after many
years, And the bride, privates in tears, with sighs follow you
through life.

Davenport had experienced a like fear for some moments, but had
refrained from letting any of the party know.  They had remarked that
he was driving the spirited span to their full speed, but supposed he
was hurrying because of the lateness of the hour.

"It is a fire," cried Mrs. Gordon.  "Our daughters--God keep them."

Moments seemed hours to the anxious parents.  As dread became
certainty, they felt as if the horses were almost standing still,
whereas they were going as fast over the hard shell road as was
possible.  Ambulance or fire horses could not have passed the ones Mr.
Davenport drove, urged both by his voice and by the whip.

"Beth--Julia," cried two mothers the same second, as they rushed from
the carriage and gathered two blanketed figures to their hearts.  Tears
of relief and thankfulness flowed thick and fast.

"It's terrible that our lovely home is gone," cried Beth.

"In evil there is good.  You are safe, my darling," her mother murmured.

The fathers felt no less keenly the escape of their beloved children,
but expressed themselves less emotionally.  Marian could get hardly any
one to notice her, but finally managed to say so as to be heard:

"I don't think they ought to be standing around with bare feet, and
blankets wrapped around them."

"You must all come home with us," cried Mrs. Gordon.  "I will not
accept a refusal.  We have a great abundance of room."

Already the fire was beginning to die down, and Mr. Davenport saw that
no good could be accomplished by remaining longer.

"January, I want you to watch to see that no damage is done by sparks,"
he said.

"Sparks won't have no sort of chance wid me aroun', massa."

Room was made in the carriage for the two children, and the horses were
started in the direction of the Gordon homestead.  For a few moments,
in the excitement of telling about the fire, Beth forgot all about
Duke.  They were almost at the Gordons' door when she thought of him.
She looked hastily back, half hoping he might be following, and to her
joy saw him directly behind the carriage.  Beth pleaded to be allowed
to take her beloved dog up to Julia's room with them.  Julia added her
entreaties, and the children were permitted to do as they wished in the
matter.

Once the children were in bed, they talked awhile of their fortunate
deliverance.  Duke came in for a big share of praise.  Then Julia fell
asleep, but Beth felt very wide awake.  Presently, even Duke on the
floor near their bed also slept.  Beth knew that he was sleeping
because he moaned as if he were haunted by a nightmare of the fire.

"Poor, poor fellow, he feels almost as bad as I," thought Beth.  For a
long time she lay awake wondering what her father would do now that
their home with all its contents was burned.

"Just s'posing--just s'posing----"  With these words Beth fell into a
troubled sleep.

About ten minutes afterwards, she began crying in her sleep, which
wakened Julia.

"Why, Beth dear, what's the matter?" and Julia twined her arm lovingly
around her friend.

Beth wakened with a start.  She sat up in bed.  "Where am I, Julia?  In
Florida?"

"Of course, dear.  What made you----"

"Oh, I'm so glad I'm here.  I went to sleep s'posing----"

"Supposing what, Beth?"

"Oh, I don't like to tell for fear it may come true.  I dreamed that it
did come true and it made me very miserable."

"You're just nervous over the terrible fire.  All the bad that can
happen has already happened to you."

"I don't know about that," murmured Beth, but could not be persuaded to
tell Julia more about her dream.  Julia therefore sank back into
slumberland, and forgot all about her friend's dream, but not so Beth.
The fear of what she dreamed haunted her, waking and sleeping.

The next morning, Beth had quite a time dressing.  Most of Julia's
clothes proved a very tight fit.

"I'll have to pretend I'm a young lady.  Then I shall not mind if it is
tight," Beth said as she struggled into Julia's blue dress.

"It's a little short, but then short dresses are the style now,"
commented Julia in an effort to be polite.

Immediately after breakfast, the Davenports and the Gordons started
over to view the fire.  For some reason known only to herself, Beth did
not care to go.  She even refused to be moved by Julia's entreaties,
and insisted that Julia go without her.

Duke remained to keep Beth company.  When the two were alone, Beth put
her arms around the faithful dog.  He looked up into her eyes and
whined.

"I believe you know," cried Beth.  "Are you afraid of it, too?"

Again Duke whined.

"You do know, Duke."  There were tears in Beth's eyes.  "If it happens,
they'll take you from me.  Don't you remember what Mr. Brown said?"

Duke looked as if he understood.

"They shan't take you from me.  I'll go in town and see Mr. Brown.  You
shall go with me, Duke."

He wagged his tail as if pleased, at the promise.  Beth ran for a hat,
and then, with Duke, started down the road towards town.

The day was extremely sultry, and the warmth in combination with the
excitement of the night before soon caused Beth to tire, but she would
not give up her undertaking.

"You'd do as much to stay with me, wouldn't you, Duke?" she asked, to
encourage herself.

Duke barked.  Perhaps it was because he did not mind the heat and was
anxious for a frolic.  Beth envied his spirits.  To her the way seemed
very long and dusty, but on and on she trudged.  She did not know
exactly where Mr. Brown lived, but thought by asking she could easily
find out, and so it proved.

It was a very tired, warm, and dusty little girl who finally turned in
at the Browns'.

A great, overgrown puppy rushed at Beth and Duke as they opened the
gate.  At first, Beth could hardly believe her own eyes.  It scarcely
seemed possible that it was the same puppy she had given Mr. Brown such
a short time before.  The little fellow had outgrown all his brothers
and sisters, and could no longer be rightly termed little.  Duke was
unaffectedly glad to see his son.  Away they ran together.

"Duke, Duke, come back."

Beth's call did not bring him, but Mr. Brown came around the corner of
the house.

"Why, missy," his face lighted up in greeting.  Beth wondered how she
ever thought him ugly-looking.  "You saw my puppy, didn't you?  I tell
you he's a fine fellow.  Duke never compared with him."

"Do you really like the puppy the best?" cried Beth, eagerly rushing up
to him in her excitement.

"Not a doubt of it."  He smiled at her evident delight.  "Gift----"

"Is that what you call him?"

"Yes.  The name is to remind me of your kindness.  I----"

"Was I really kind?" she interrupted wistfully.  She did not wait for
an answer.  "Then perhaps you'd be willing to do me a very, very great
favor."

"What is it you want?  But you'd better sit down first.  You look
tired."

"I am a little tired.  It was pretty hot walking."

"You don't mean you walked here?--and on such a hot day?"

When he found that she had, he seated her in the shade on the cool
piazza, and would not listen to another word until he went into the
house and returned with a bottle of orangeade for her.

"Now while you drink, I'll tell you why I like Gift better than Duke.
In the first place, Gift really loves me--why, I don't believe that
even such a charming little lady as you could get Gift to leave me.
Let's try and see.  Here, Gift; come, Gift."

The two dogs came running at his call.

"He always answers just so promptly."  Beth noted how proud he looked.
"Now little missy, call Gift and make friends with him."

Beth did as bidden.  Gift proved very friendly in response.  Duke
seemed inclined to be jealous.

"Now missy, rise as if to go and call Gift to follow.  It will be as
big a temptation as he ever had.  He doesn't usually make friends the
way he has with you and Duke.  Perhaps I'm a fool to try him so."

"Then I will not----"

"No, no.  I want to know if Gift cares for me as much as I think he
does.  You must try him."

Beth was growing nervous over the situation.  Somehow, she realized
that the love of Gift meant more to the man before her than almost
anything in his life.  If the dog failed him at this point it might
have a very disastrous effect.

Right fore in a table and chair. Rustan, expensively dressed in a
golden Reif hair, hastily comes through the main entrance.

In the same moments occurs Zanga through the left side. Rustan means
to him on the mouth with a finger laid, reversed.

He paid no heed, but his master saw that she was not
calling as if she really wanted the dog.

"Call as if you meant it."

She saw that she could not fool him.  She felt compelled to act under
his direction, but it seemed the irony of fate that once she had
unwittingly taken his dog from him, and that now she should be made to
try again when neither of them wished the dog to leave him.  Tears were
in her eyes, but she clapped her hands as if ready for a frolic.  "Come
on, Gift; come on."  Duke also barked an invitation.  Gift leaped down
the steps and was by their side in an instant.

I have no more. Nobody turn me against DISS On; Rath is all in vain.

Aumerle. Only one word, Gracious Lord - King Richard. Schmeicheleyen
in such circumstances worinn I'm just making my wounds deeper.
Tears now blinded poor Beth so that she could hardly see to open the
gate.  Duke did not wait for it to be opened, but leaped over the
fence.  Gift hesitated about following.  He was perfectly able to make
the jump, but he evidently thought of his master for the first time.
He looked back undecided what to do.

"Oh, if he only would call him," but Brown stood as if turned to stone.
Suddenly Gift ran back to his side.  Beth never felt more grateful.

"Call him.  I am not sure of him yet," cried Brown in a strange voice.

"It's cruel to the dog and to me," thought Beth.  She now held the gate
open.  "Come, Gift."  Again Duke barked.

"I'm ashamed of you, Duke Davenport, for tempting your own son,"
thought Beth.

Gift looked up at his master as if for a word of instruction.  He
received no word or sign in reply.  Then Gift made a slight move as if
to follow Beth, but suddenly turned and licked his master's hand.
Next, he settled down on the porch for a sleep as if the matter were
settled once and forever.

Beth now expected to see Mr. Brown show some emotion, but he simply
called, "Missy, come back."

She would have thought that she had overestimated his feelings in the
matter if she had not caught sight of tears in his eyes when she
returned.

"Gift is the best friend I have," he said quietly when Beth was
reseated.  "Do you know he helps keep me from saloons.  If he is with
me and I start in one, he growls.  Who comes here? (Percy to the former.)
Welcome, Harry!

How Will this lock has not yet been revealed? Percy. The castle is
being manned euern collection kinglike, Milord.

Bolingbroke. Royally? How, because it contains a king? Percy. Yes,
Milord, it contains a king, King Richard is situated within the
district of that glue and stone, and Bey Aumerle him Lord, Lord
Salisbury, Sir Stephen Scroop, and another priest of Sacred
ehrfurchtwürdigem and personable, whose name I could not learn.

"That was before I had Gift."

"And you wouldn't take Duke from me?"  She sprang to her feet.

"Not for the world."

Suddenly Beth seized Duke, and danced around and around with him.  "Oh,
goody.  Duke, you old dear, we needn't stay awake nights worrying over
that part any more."

Mr. Brown hitched up and drove Beth back.  On the way, she told him of
the fire, and how Duke had saved their lives.  Duke and Gift were
following the carriage, and perhaps Duke was telling his son of his own
heroism, because Gift often barked as if excited over something.

Mr. Brown said he would like to see the ruins and so Beth drove with
him to the homestead.  They found Mr. Davenport, Julia, Harvey, Maggie,
and Gustus out near the stables.

"Why Beth, where have you been?" cried her father.

She jumped out of the carriage and ran and threw herself into her
father's arms.  "Papa, now that our house is gone, I was afraid you'd
take us back North to live.  I don't want to go, but if I had to go, it
would have broken my heart to part with Duke, but now, I'll never,
never have to part with him, no matter what happens.  Mr. Brown says
he's mine forever."

"Dear, I do not expect to go back North.  Next fall, we'll build a fine
new house, and you shall be a little Florida lady the rest of your
life, if you wish."

"I'm to live South always," cried Beth, turning a radiant face toward
her friends.

Say, where, when and how did you come to this evil newspaper? Say,
you Unglükseliger! Gardeners. Verzeihet me, madam. I have little joy of
this news to tell, but it assures that they are true seyen.

King Richard is in Bolingbroke powerful force.
Duke was hers, and henceforth
she was to remain A Little Florida Lady.