Produced by David Widger


THE ENTIRE MARCH FAMILY TRILOGY

By William Dean Howells


Contents:

Their Wedding Journey
     The Outset
     A Midsummer-day's Dream
     The Night Boat
     A Day's Railroading
     The Enchanted City, and Beyond
     Niagara
     Down the St. Lawrence
     The Sentiment of Montreal
     Homeward and Home
     Niagara Revisited Twelve Years after Their Wedding

A Hazard of New Fortunes
     Part 1
     Part 2
     Part 3
     Part 4
     Part 5

Their Silver Wedding Journey
     Volume 1
     Volume 2
     Volume 3


THEIR WEDDING JOURNEY

By William Dean Howells

1871


I. THE OUTSET

They first met in Boston, but the match was made in Europe, where they
afterwards saw each other; whither, indeed, he followed her; and there
the match was also broken off. Why it was broken off, and why it was
renewed after a lapse of years, is part of quite a long love-story, which
I do not think myself qualified to rehearse, distrusting my fitness for a
sustained or involved narration; though I am persuaded that a skillful
romancer could turn the courtship of Basil and Isabel March to excellent
account. Fortunately for me, however, in attempting to tell the reader of
the wedding-journey of a newly married couple, no longer very young, to
be sure, but still fresh in the light of their love, I shall have nothing
to do but to talk of some ordinary traits of American life as these
appeared to them, to speak a little of well-known and easily accessible
places, to present now a bit of landscape and now a sketch of character.

They had agreed to make their wedding-journey in the simplest and
quietest way, and as it did not take place at once after their marriage,
but some weeks later, it had all the desired charm of privacy from the
outset.

"How much better," said Isabel, "to go now, when nobody cares whether you
go or stay, than to have started off upon a wretched wedding-breakfast,
all tears and trousseau, and had people wanting to see you aboard the
cars. Now there will not be a suspicion of honey-moonshine about us; we
shall go just like anybody else,--with a difference, dear, with a
difference!" and she took Basil's cheeks between her hands. In order to
do this, she had to ran round the table; for they were at dinner, and
Isabel's aunt, with whom they had begun married life, sat substantial
between them. It was rather a girlish thing for Isabel, and she added,
with a conscious blush, "We are past our first youth, you know; and we
shall not strike the public as bridal, shall we? My one horror in life is
an evident bride."

Basil looked at her fondly, as if he did not think her at all too old to
be taken for a bride; and for my part I do not object to a woman's being
of Isabel's age, if she is of a good heart and temper. Life must have
been very unkind to her if at that age she have not won more than she has
lost. It seemed to Basil that his wife was quite as fair as when they met
first, eight years before; but he could not help recurring with an
inextinguishable regret to the long interval of their broken engagement,
which but for that fatality they might have spent together, he imagined,
in just such rapture as this. The regret always haunted him, more or
less; it was part of his love; the loss accounted irreparable really
enriched the final gain.

"I don't know," he said presently, with as much gravity as a man can
whose cheeks are clasped between a lady's hands, "you don't begin very
well for a bride who wishes to keep her secret. If you behave in this
way, they will put us into the 'bridal chambers' at all the hotels. And
the cars--they're beginning to have them on the palace-cars."

Just then a shadow fell into the room.

"Wasn't that thunder, Isabel?" asked her aunt, who had been contentedly
surveying the tender spectacle before her. "O dear! you'll never be able
to go by the boat to-night, if it storms. It 's actually raining now!"

In fact, it was the beginning of that terrible storm of June, 1870. All
in a moment, out of the hot sunshine of the day it burst upon us before
we quite knew that it threatened, even before we had fairly noticed the
clouds, and it went on from passion to passion with an inexhaustible
violence. In the square upon which our friends looked out of their
dining-room windows the trees whitened in the gusts, and darkened in the
driving floods of the rainfall, and in some paroxysms of the tempest bent
themselves in desperate submission, and then with a great shudder rent
away whole branches and flung them far off upon the ground. Behind JUNO
Jupiter and Ganymede, and are HEBE. Towards the right side of Jupiter
is the justice, sitting on his throne, taking the hands of its
attributes. = = FIRST STAGE gods and goddesses and the Muses eight
mentioned. Reach the muse Terpsichore [3] first, and the nymphs,
and the Nayades ONDINES scattering flowers and dancing to the sound of the
lira of Apollo and Erato and Euterpe the flute. After dancing all are
placed on either side of the stage. SECOND STAGE = = (y_ _Dichos
mercury.) (Mercury comes from the head and removing the cap Phrygian
speech) MERCURY. I've already met your mandate, sovereign Father
Neptune his court can not come because they fear losing the rule of
the seas, because of the current cast of men, has not yet completed
VULCANO rays that may require to assemble to Olympus and is completing;
about Pluto ... Jupiter. (MERCURY _Interrumpiendo a_.) Stop! Nor need.
Hebe, and thou, Ganymede divided drink nectar for the immortals. (While
HEBE Ganymede and fill their role, and Silene BACO reach it on foot and
one mounted on a donkey with Ted in his hand and green branches in
the temples, singing:) "He who wishes to live and have fun, leave _Minerva_
My vines look after ..." MINERVA. (_EN high voz_.) Silence! Do not you see
that Jupiter has a powerful talk? Silene. So what? Is the upset winner
of the Titans? The Gods take nectar: therefore, can either express their
joy in the way as he pleases, but I see that my disciple, you have
offended and have a pretext for MOMO .... (_Con Voice socarrona_.)
Defiéndele, Silene, because not say that your disciples are irrelevant.
MINERVA. (_Trata to replicate, but the JUPITER contains a gesture.
MINERVA then expresses his disdain with a disdainful smile so delicate
that it alters the severity of their beautiful labios_.) (after taking
all Gods of immortal drink, starts to speak.) Jupiter. There was a time,
lofty gods, that the proud sons of the soil and tried to climb Olympus,
wrest the rule, accumulating mountains on mountains, and were achieved
without Certainly, if your arms and my terrible lightning had not rushed
to the Tatar, the other buried in the bowels of the fiery Etna. Fausto
desire to hold such events with the pomp of the immortals, that the earth
today, following its eternal career, has returned to the same point
in its orbit, which then turned. So I, the ruler of the gods, I want
The festival begins with a literary contest. I have a superb horn
warrior, a lyre and a laurel wreath carefully constructed: the tube is a
metal, only VULCANO known, more precious than gold and silver and the
lira, as Apollo is gold and nacar , also carved by the same VULCANO,
but their strings, the work of the Muses, know no rivals, and the crown,
woven by the Graces, the laurel grows best in my garden immortal,
shining above all the kings of the land.

The three equally valid, and it has grown more letters and virtues, that
will be the owner of so magnificent jewelry. Presentadme therefore
judge you the mortal worthy to merit. JUNO. (_Se Rose arogante in
attitude and altiva_.) Jupiter, let me speak first, as your wife and
mother of the gods more powerful. None better than I can present the most
perfect mortal divine Homer. And the truth, who dare challenge
the supremacy, and no work can compete with their _Iliada_, brave and
daring, and his thoughtful and prudent _Odisea_? Who, as he has sung your
greatness and the other gods, so magnificently as if we had caught on
Olympus, and attended our meetings?

Who contributes most to the odor of incense is burned Arabia plenty to our
images and we offer huge slaughter, whose flavorful smoke, rising in
spirals capricious, we were so pleased to postpone our anger? Who, as
he spoke most sublime in the battles most beautiful verses? He sang
to God, to knowledge, to virtue, courage, heroism and the misery, going
through all the tones of his lyre. Be it the winner, because I like
the cree Olimpo whole, which none has done more credit to our sympathies.
VENUS. Sorry, sister and wife of great Jove, if I'm not your respectable
opinion. And you, Jupiter, visible only to the immortal, be conducive to
my prayers. Ruégote not allow my child to singer ENEAS HOMERO it
expires. Remember lira Virgil, who sang, and module glorias our
complaints unhappy love, his lyrics moved dulcis and melancholy soul:
he praised the piety embodied in the son of ANCHISES: their battles are
no less beautiful than those made at the foot of the walls Trojans; ENEAS
is larger and that the pious AQUILES angry: in short, I feel, is much
higher than VIRGILIO poet Chio.

Is it not true that he filled all the qualities that your mind has
conceived sacred?

(Having said that fits nicely into its bed, which ONDINA that funny,
half reclining on white foam of the blue waves, is the most precious
jewel of a poetic and beautiful lake.)

JUNO. (_Airada_.) What! How the Roman poet is to be preferred to Greek!
¿Virgil imitator only has to be better than Homer? Does here when the copy
was better than the original?

Ah, beautiful VENUS! (_EN Desdenoso_ tone). I see you're wrong, and not
surprising, because no case of love are not in your view, while
the heart and the passions never knew descurrir.

Leave the subject, I beg for your countless ones VENUS .... (Interrupting
ruborizada_.) Oh, beautiful JUNO so jealous and vindictive! Despite
your good memory, always remember the golden apple that was unjustly
denied to your reputation and not well-considered beautiful, I look
with regret that rude forget what has made us your favorite HOMERO.
However, if one of you will find reasonable and true, is this in good
time, and we welcome this, but what I played, the gods of Olympus MOMO say
.... (_Iinterrumpiendo A Venus_.)!

if! They say you VIRGILIO praise, because he has behaved well with you,
that defends JUNO Homer because he is the singer of vengeance, you do
mutual caresses and kind compliments. But thou, Jupiter, why not intervene
in disputes and you are there, as the ignorant, who hears embobado trilogies
in the Olympic festivities? JUNO. (_EN High voz_.) Esposo ¡! Why do we
let this insult so deformed and ugly monster? Take the Olympus, because
infest your breath. Besides ... MOMO. Exaltations to JUNO, never insult,
since only calls me ugly and deformed! (_Los Gods rien_.) JUNO. (Pale,
his forehead wrinkles, and launches a Fulminans look to all, especially
MOMO.) Shut the god of mockery! By the Stygian lake! ... But let us leave
that and talk MINERVA, whose opinion has always been distant from my own
time. MOMO. Yes! Another famous dandies like you, you halláis where it
ought to be. MINERVA. (_Aparenta Not hear it. Levanta its hull, and
discovered his severe tersa front mansion intelligence and argentina and
clear voice, exclama._) Te Please hear me, mighty son of Saturn, which
moved to pucker your Olympus terrible frown, and you, that prudent and
Veneranda presidís gods and to men gobernáis not take my words the wrong
way, always subject to the will of the donor. If by chance my reasons
do not have your eyes weight dignáos refute and weigh in the balance
of justice. There are old HESPERIA, beyond the Pyrenees, a man whose
fame has already crossed the space that separates the world of mortals
of Olympus, which quickly centella light. Ignoring and dark it was,
became a plaything of the passions of envy and ruins, overwhelmed
by misfortune, fate of the great geniuses. There seems something else
but the world, extracting TATAR of all suffering and torture, has
accumulated on its unhappy person. Despite the many more suffering and
injustice has not wanted to return to their fellows all the pain that
they receive, but by pious and too big for revenge, tried to correct and
educate them, giving birth to his immortal Don Quixote. So, to Cervantes,
the son of Spain, which later will be their pride, and now seems
the most appalling misery.

EL QUIJOTE, its great, the whip is punishing the laughter, it is
the nectar that contains the virtues of the bitter medicine, is the
hand that guides flattering strong human passions.

If I ask about the obstacles they overcame, served listen a moment, and
what you will. Hallábase the world invaded by a species of madness, the
more frantic the more sad and was widespread by the imaginations of
fools calenturientas feathers, spread all over the bad taste in reading
and spent unnecessarily damaging when it appears here that the bright light
dispels the darkness of the intellect, and the timid bird which often
escape the hunter to see or hear the whistle of the arrow, and
disappeared errors, bad taste and the absurd belief, buried on the
night of oblivion.

And while it is true that the singer of Ilion, in his sonorous verse,
opened the first temple of the muses, and celebrated the heroism
of men and the wisdom of the immortals, that the swan of Mantua consalzó
piety which freed to the gods of fire from their homeland and gave up
the delights of Venus, to follow your will, you, the greatest of all
gods, and the most delicate feelings gushed from his lyre, and his
melancholy estrus carries the mind to other regions, but also it is
equally true that neither improved the customs of his century, which made
CERVANTES.

In his appearance, Truth returned to his seat, announcing a new era to the
world, then corrupted. If I ask for their beauty, although I know you sent
to Apollo, the only judge on this point and ask if the author of Don
Quixote has burned incense in his immortal spirit. APOLO. The pleasure
with which can accommodate a quiet night FILOMENO complaints and will
be pleasing to you my reasons, my father. The nine sisters and I read
in the gardens of Parnassus that book that speaks the wise MINERVA.
His style and festive accents sound pleasant to my ears that the
sound source that comes at the entrance to my cave shade. (We do not
ask me tachéis of passionate CERVANTES because I have spent many of his
finest.) If in extreme poverty, begotten of hunger, misery and
misfortune, unhappy at the continued harassment, a humble son of mine
was able to raise to my songs and harmonize their accents, offering a
tribute much more beautiful and precious to my car shiny and untamed
horses, whether in the dungeon Hedionda, encierro disastrous for my soul
that wants to fly, his well-cut pen was able to pour pour dazzling
poetry, much more pleasant and rich of the lymph Pactol gold, why would
we deny the superiority and not what to give him the victory the greatest
genius that saw the worlds?

QUIJOTE is your favorite book of the muses, and while holiday comfort
to sad and melancholy, and illustrates the ignorant, it is also a
story, the story more faithful to the Spanish customs. I think, therefore,
wise to the blades, and I forgive the other gods who are not involved
in my opinion. JUNO. If his chief merit consists in having endured
much misery, as in any other advantage, nor that it is not defeated,
I also HOMERO, blind and miserable, implored time in a public charity
(which has never made CERVANTES), touring towns and cities with his lyre,
only friend, and living in complete misery. Remember this well, APOLO
ungrateful. Venus. So what?

VIRGILIO What has not been too poor? Is not much time was staying with a
single pan, a gift from Caesar?

Aspires to be melancholy in his works, it does not say enough how much
your heart must have experienced sensitive and delicate? Will there be
suffered unless the bright and festive HOMERO CERVANTES? MINERVA. Without
doubt, this is all true, but you ought to ignore that Cervantes
was wounded and captive by many in the inhospitable soil of Africa,
where they hurried up the chalice faeces the bitterness of living
with the constant threat of death.

(Jupiter does conform with demonstrations MINERVA.) Mart. (_Se rose and
spoke with thunderous voice is iracunda_.) No, my spear!

No! Never!

While a drop of blood in my veins encourage immortal, CERVANTES not
triumph.

How can we book you onto the floor and my glory will lift ridicules my
deeds victorious? JUPITER, I helped you in another time is therefore now
turn to my reasons. JUNO. (_Exaltada_.) Do you hear, Justiciero JOVE,
the reasons for the MARS courageous, so wise as worked?

The light and the green fields in his words.

How, then, let the man, whose glory the observed time (and tell SATURN),
is postponed to this upstart and manco, sarcasm of society? MARS. And
if you, the father of the gods and the men doubted the strength of my
reasoning, these other questions, if there is anything that dares to hold
them with his arm. (It is arrogant to half ahead, challenging everyone
with their eyes and brandishing their steel.) MINERVA. (_Con haughty
face and shining eyes, and takes a step with voice exclaims tranquila_:)
Bold MARS, that you forget to do the fields Trojans were hurt by a mere
mortal: if your reasons are for your sword, do not fear mine
combatirte in your field. But not to me unwise to delete, I want to prove
you are wrong a lot. CERVANTES followed your flags, and you served
heroically in the waters of Lepanto, where he lost his life, if the
destination is not devoted to a larger order. If you threw the sword to
take the pen, was by the will of the immortal, not by despreciarte,
perhaps you've imagined in your mad folly. (_Y Añade_ softer:)
Do not be, then, ungrateful, you magnanimous heart which is inaccessible
to the bitterness and hateful passions.

He ridiculed the cavalry, because there was no longer suitable to his
century, while these are not the struggles that you honor, but the
battles, you know well. These are my reasons, and if you believe, I accept
your challenge. (He is usually caliginosa and cloud, full of lightning,
close to one half of the ocean when the sky is overcast and MINERVA walks
slowly, his formidable shield pregnancy enristrando and the spear, a
messenger of terrible destruction. Tranquila is his eyes, but frightening:
his voice has a sound that instills fear.) Belone. (_Se puts the
angry side of Mars, ready to ayudarle_.) APOLO. (see _Al Belone
attitude, let the lira, takes the bow, started the golden arrow quiver,
and placed beside MINERVA, is the bow, ready to disparar_) (Olympus, near
collapse, shudders, the light of the days darkens, and the gods tremble).
Jupiter. (_Enojado soft lightning and grita_): your seats, MINERVA,
APOLO: and you, and Belone MARS! Do not irritéis my anger celeste!
(Which usually the butcher and terrible beasts, locked in iron cage,
submissive obedience to the voice of the trainer worked, and those
gods hold their positions, respectively, threatened by the threat of
CIBELES son, who to see his obedience, softer added): I will finish
the race: Justice weigh the books straight to your impartiality,
and what it says, will continue in the world while you acataréis
his failure immutable.

JUSTICE. (down from his seat is placed in the middle of the contest, holding
her long imparciat balance while Mercury placed in the dishes and the
Aeneid QUIXOTE. After long swing the needle to mark the order, stating
that they were equal. Venus surprised, but silent. MERCURIO Aeneid removed
from the dish, substituting the Iliad. A smile is drawn on the lips of
JUNO, smile that quickly dissipates when you go up and down to
where the two plates and the Iliad are QUIXOTE.

Suspenso spirits are: no talking, no breathing. shows that immediately
CEFRS a fly landed on the branch of a tree to await the decision
of fate.

At last the two plates are stopped at the same height, and they
remain fixed) .

Jupiter. (_Con voice solemne_.) Gods and Goddesses: The Justice cree
equal, doubling as the front, and let the tube Homer, Virgil and the lira
Cervantes Award winning, while the FAMA issued by the the ruling of
the world DESTINATION, and vocalist APOLO chant a hymn to the new star,
which from today will shine in the sky of the glory and take a seat
in the temple of immortality. APOLO.

(_Pulsa lira whose sound is illuminated Olympus, intones the hymn of glory
that resonates throughout the majestic coliseo_.) "Hail, oh, you, the
greatest of men, son of the Muses, the focus of intense light that
enlightens the world; save! Loor your name, beautiful light, in which
the future will revolve around a thousand minds, fans of your glory!
Hail, great work by the hand of the Powerful, the pride of Spain, the most
beautiful flower that fits my temples, I salute you ! You eclipse the
glories of antiquity; your name written in golden letters in the Temple
of Immortality, is the despair of the other mills! Gigante powerful,
you'll be invincible! magnificent monument placed in the middle of your
century, all eyes will be on you. vencerá Your mighty arm your
enemies, voracious fire that consumes the dry straw.

Go ye, Muses inspired and catching the scent myrtle, laurel and beautiful
pink glitter, Tejeda honoring CERVANTES immortal crowns! PAN and you,
Silene, fauna and cheerful Satire, dance on the carpet of umbrosos
forests, while the Nereids, the Nayades, clambakes ONDINES and playful
nymphs, scattering a thousand flowers aromas, beautify their songs with
the solitude of the seas , lagoons, waterfalls and rivers, and shake the
clear surface of the sources varied in their games. "(They get to
dance the Muses, the Nymphs, the Nayades, etc.. and BACO, MOMO, Silene
and Ganymede, be the principal dancer the muse Terpsichore. APOLO Erato
and play the lyre, the flute Euterpe, Clio, the trumpet and the bugle
Calíope. Meanwhile the gods and goddesses are placed on both sides of
the stage and their thrones and seats are also transported one side
is playing up the Philippines. This opens a second curtain, will appear
at the bottom, superbly lit, a bust of Cervantes, whose left side
is a full-body statue of Rizal, crowned.

It will be replaced, then The march with the Philippine National Spanish
real progress.) curtain falls. FOOTNOTES: [1] Vide: _Revista Liceo
Artistic-Literary Manila_ on April 23, 1880 p. 41, could read this
book full of our hero, on p. 43. [2] _Musas_ nine sisters were daughters
of Jupiter and Mnemosina, goddess of memory. Here are the names of the
eight that are listed here: Calíope, muse of heroic poetry,
Melpomene, muse of trajedia, Thalia, muse of comedy; Polyhymnia,
muse of rhetoric; Erato, muse of lyric poetry, Euterpe , muse of
song and music, Urania, muse of astronomy, and CLIO, the muse of
history. [3] Terpsichore, muse of dance and is the last of the nine
sisters.

She was a woman who loved any cheap defiance of custom, and she had an
agreeable sense of adventure in what she proposed. Besides, she felt that
nothing could be more in the unconventional spirit in which they meant to
make their whole journey than a stroll about New York at half-past six in
the morning.

"Delightful!" answered Basil, who was always charmed with these small
originalities. "You look well enough for an evening party; and besides,
you won't meet one of your own critical class on Broadway at this hour.
We will breakfast at one of those gilded metropolitan restaurants, and
then go round to Leonard's, who will be able to give us just three
unhurried seconds. After that we'll push on out to his place."

At that early hour there were not many people astir on the wide avenue
down which our friends strolled when they left the station; but in the
aspect of those they saw there was something that told of a greater heat
than they had yet known in Boston, and they were sensible of having
reached a more southern latitude. The air, though freshened by the
over-night's storm, still wanted the briskness and sparkle and pungency
of the Boston air, which is as delicious in summer as it is terrible in
winter; and the faces that showed themselves were sodden from the
yesterday's heat and perspiration. A corner-grocer, seated in a sort of
fierce despondency upon a keg near his shop door, had lightly equipped
himself for the struggle of the day in the battered armor of the day
before, and in a pair of roomy pantaloons, and a baggy shirt of neutral
tint--perhaps he had made a vow not to change it whilst the siege of the
hot weather lasted,--now confronted the advancing sunlight, before which
the long shadows of the buildings were slowly retiring. A marketing
mother of a family paused at a provision-store, and looking weakly in at
the white-aproned butcher among his meats and flies, passes without an
effort to purchase. Hurried and wearied shop-girls tripped by in the
draperies that betrayed their sad necessity to be both fine and shabby;
from a boarding-house door issued briskly one of those cool young New
Yorkers whom no circumstances can oppress: breezy-coated, white-livened,
clean, with a good cigar in the mouth, a light cane caught upon the elbow
of one of the arms holding up the paper from which the morning's news is
snatched, whilst the person sways lightly with the walk; in the
street-cars that slowly tinkled up and down were rows of people with
baskets between their legs and papers before their faces; and all showed
by some peculiarity of air or dress the excess of heat which they had
already borne, and to which they seemed to look forward, and gave by the
scantiness of their number a vivid impression of the uncounted thousands
within doors prolonging, before the day's terror began, the oblivion of
sleep.

(Napoleon.) Where? (Lady points to the table with the letters:) Here!
You only need to read. (He takes on the package, hesitates, looks at them
suspiciously and throws it again.)

        (Napoleon.) You seem to care about the
        honor of your old girlfriend to have
        forgotten? (Dame.) Now it runs no more
        risk, they sees her husband not
        quite. (Napoleon.) Should I
        then read the letter? (He
        stretches out his hand as if he
        wanted to pack up again to look
        at them.) (Dame.) I do not see how
        you could avoid yet to read
        it. (He pulls his hand back immediately.)
        Oh, you're not afraid. They are
        some interesting things found therein.
        (Napoleon.) For example? (Dame.)

For example: a duel - with Barras, a domestic scene, a budget resolution,
a public scandal, a ruined career - all sorts of interesting
things - - (Napoleon.) Hm!

(He looks at it, take the package and sees it, a head, the lips and weighs
it in her hand, she sees it again, the package in his left hand and
puts it behind his back, his right hand he rises to on the back to scrape
by umwendet and he is at the threshold of the vineyard is a moment
where he stands still and in deep thought, looking after the vines.

The lady watched him in silence, with some disdain. Suddenly,
he again back, full force and determination:) I want to fulfill your
request, Madame. Your courage and your determination to earn a success.
Take the letters, for which you fought so well, and remember
henceforth that the low-born, nasty, Corsican adventurer gained
after the battle against the vanquished magnanimously also found,
as he has already in the face of implacable enemy was.

(He offers her the package.) (Lady without having to take it hard
sight:) I wonder what you are probably now in the lead shields. (He throws
the packet on the ground angrily.) Aha! It seems to me this time,
I have a Pose spoiled. (It makes him a pretty mocking bow.) (Napoleon
highlights the letters back on:) Do you want the letters and then
go? (Where they go and they want to impose it.) (Dame to escape
around the table:) No! I do not want your letters. (Napoleon.) ten
minutes ago you would not otherwise meet. (Dame carefully the table
between him and conservative:) Before ten minutes had me you do not have
anything endure insults. (Napoleon.) Then. .. (his anger hinunterwürgend:)
then I ask you for forgiveness. (cool lady:) I thank you. (He offers her
with forced politeness the package on the table, it is a step back
from his field, and says:) But do you want to no longer know whether
the Austrians in Mantua or Peschiera stand? (Napoleon.) I've already told
you that my enemies without the help of spies to defeat white, Madame!
(Dame.) And the letter - you do not want to read? (Napoleon.) You have
said that he was not addressed to me - I have not the habit of other
people's letters to read. (He offers her the package at once.) (Dame.)
If so, it is opposed to keep it, certainly nothing wrong. All I wanted
was to prevent it read. (Clear:) Good evening, Sir!
But see! the human wave is beginning to sprinkle the pavement with cooks
and second-girls."

They were frowzy serving-maids and silent; each swept down her own door
steps and the pavement in front of her own house, and then knocked her
broom on the curbstone and vanished into the house, on which the hand of
change had already fallen. It was no longer a street solely devoted to
the domestic gods, but had been invaded at more than one point by the
bustling deities of business in such streets the irregular, inspired
doctors and doctresses come first with inordinate door-plates, then a
milliner filling the parlor window with new bonnets; here even a
publisher had hung his sign beside a door, through which the feet of
young ladies used to trip, and the feet of little children to patter.
Here and there stood groups of dwellings unmolested as yet outwardly; but
even these had a certain careworn and guilty air, as if they knew
themselves to be cheapish boarding-houses or furnished lodgings for
gentlemen, and were trying to hide it. To these belonged the frowzy
serving-women; to these the rows of ash-barrels, in which the decrepit
children and mothers of the streets were clawing for bits of coal.

By the time Basil and Isabel reached Broadway there were already some
omnibuses beginning their long day's travel up and down the handsome,
tiresome length of that avenue; but for the most part it was empty. There
was, of course, a hurry of foot-passengers upon the sidewalks, but these
were sparse and uncharacteristic, for New York proper was still fast
asleep. The waiter at the restaurant into which our friends stepped was
so well aware of this, and so perfectly assured they were not of the
city, that he could not forbear a little patronage of them, which they
did not resent. He brought Basil what he had ordered in barbaric
abundance, and charged for it with barbaric splendor. It is all but
impossible not to wish to stand well with your waiter: I have myself been
often treated with conspicuous rudeness by the tribe, yet I have never
been able to withhold the 'douceur' that marked me for a gentleman in
their eyes, and entitled me to their dishonorable esteem. Basil was not
superior to this folly, and left the waster with the conviction that, if
he was not a New Yorker, he was a high-bred man of the world at any rate.

Vexed by a sense of his own pitifulness, this man of the world continued
his pilgrimage down Broadway, which even in that desert state was full of
a certain interest. Troops of laborers straggled along the pavements,
each with his dinner-pail in hand; and in many places the eternal
building up and pulling down was already going on; carts were struggling
up the slopes of vast cellars, with loads of distracting rubbish; here
stood the half-demolished walls of a house, with a sad variety of
wall-paper showing in the different rooms; there clinked the trowel upon
the brick, yonder the hammer on the stone; overhead swung and threatened
the marble block that the derrick was lifting to its place. As yet these
forces of demolition and construction had the business of the street
almost to themselves.

"Why, how shabby the street is!" said Isabel, at last.  "When I landed,
after being abroad, I remember that Broadway impressed me with its
splendor."

"Ah I but you were merely coming from Europe then; and now you arrive
from Burton, and are contrasting this poor Broadway with Washington
Street. Don't be hard upon it, Isabel; every street can't be a Boston
street, you know," said Basil. If he also intervened against those
who used these incidents to Republican opposition, so it follows, does not
he feels that the rejection was not serious. The assumption is indeed that
these calls on his behest had done to the crowd at the strange
spectacle of the Roman diadems prepare completely ignores the
enormous power of ideological opposition, with which Caesar was
to be expected and such a public recognition of their entitlement
Caesars pages themselves do not nachgiebiger could be much longer
necessary thus gained further ground.

It may be the passionate zeal Pendant unberufene these appearances
alone have led, it may also be that the scene with Caesar Antonius only
allowed, or even organized by the order before the eyes of the residents
and was at his command, even in the calendar of the State registered
in fact, probably not again delay the rejection of the king the
title in the most uncomfortable gossip blatant way to make an end.

The probability suggests that Caesar, the value of a familiar phrase as
well as the more tribute to the name as to the nature of things is
concomitant antipathies of the quantity was determined with an ancient
spell and curse them to the Romans of his time even more so for the
despots of the East than for its Numa and Servius Koenig familiar names
to avoid, and the nature of the kingdom under the title Imperator to
adapt. ------------------------- -------------------- ^ 10 The widespread
opinion that in the imperial Imperatorenamt nothing but the life
Reichsfeldherrnwuerde see is neither the meaning of the word, nor by the
opinion of the old Rapporteur justified. Empire is in command, imperator
of the holder thereof, in these words, as in the corresponding Greek printed
Krat / o / r, aytokrat / o / r is so little a specifically military
relationship that is much more precisely the characteristic of the
Roman authority, where it is purely and completely occurs, war and
the process that is the military and civil authority, as an indivisible
whole in to abstain.

Quite rightly says Dio Cassius (53, 17, see 43, 44, 52, 41) that Name of
the Emperor of emperors adopted was "to show their Vollgewalt
instead of Koenigs and dictatorship title (pros d / e / l / o / sin t / e
/ s aytotelo? Sph s / o / n exoysias, anti t / e / s to? BASILE / o / s
to? diktat te / o / ros epikl / e / se / o / s), because these
older titles are named after disappeared, but the matter is the name
Imperator same powers (to en d / e / ergon AYT / o / nt / e / to?
aytokrat / o / ros pros / e / goria bebais? ntai), for example the right,
soldiers auszuheben, taxes, advertize, to declare war and peace to close
over citizens and non-citizens in and out of the city the highest
authority to practice at each and every places in life or else to
punish., above all with the highest empire in ancient times associated
powers are anzumassen ".

Marked probably can not be said that nothing imperator just as a synonym
for rex, as well as imperare with regere collapses. ^ 11 as Augustus
in the constitution of the Principality of Caesars empire resumption,
this happened with the restriction that there is spatial and in a
sense also should be limited in time; prokonsularische the violence
of the Kaiser, which is nothing other than precisely empire should
be for Rome and Italy did not apply (Roman Constitutional Law, Vol
2, 3, Aufl, p. 854j.

On this moment, the main difference lies in the Caesar's Empire and the
August fish Principality, and the other on the principle already in
practice and even more incomplete realization that the real barrier to
equality of both institutions. ^ 12 on this issue can argue,
however, the assumption that it Caesar's intention, as the Emperor
Roemer, Roemer as the non-Rex to dominate, simply be discarded.

It is based solely upon the story that in the Senate session, in which
Caesar was assassinated by a priest of the oracle Lucius Cotta, a
Sibyllenspruch whereby Parthians only one "king" could be overcome,
and consequently have presented the decision to be the kingdom of Caesar
on the Roman provinces to be transferred. This story, however, was
immediately after Caesar's death circulated. Solo not only will they never
have any even indirect confirmation, but it is by the contemporaries of
Cicero (div 2, 54, 119) even expressly declared false by the later
history writers, notably by Suetonius (79) and Dio (44, 15) only
as a rumor reported that they are far away, to want to promise, and
because they will also not be better trusted to Plutarch (Caes. 60,
64; brood. 10) and Appian (civ. 2, 110) according to their habit
of anecdotal, this pragmatisierend, she repeated.

It is this story not just unbezeugt but inwardly impossible. If you also
want to waive that Caesar too much spirit, and too much political
stroke had to move Oligarchenart major state issues by a blow with the
oracle machine to decide, so he could never remember the State that they
want to level, so formally and legally to divide.
-------------------------------------------- - Meanwhile, as the
definitive titles may have been thought that the Lord was there, and
immediately addressed because the Court in pomp and obbligato obbligato
tastelessness and a Leerheft. He appeared in public with the purple
stripe verbraemten guise of the consuls in the ganzpurpurnen, which in
ancient times as the Kingdom dress was, and received, on his golden chair
sitting, without the same to raise the solemn train of the Senate. The
birthday, Geluebdefeste victory and honor to his reply to the calendar.
When Caesar came to the capital, attracted the finest of his servants in
droves at long distances him catch him. He began to be close to so much
to mean that the rents in his residential quarters in the amount
received. Due to the quantity of the audience are promised the people
pressing personal negotiations with him so difficult that even Caesar,
with its many familiar writing is forced to run and saw that even the
finest hours in the hall had to wait. We felt it more clearly than Caesar
himself was fond of that you no longer came to a fellow. It was a
monarchical aristocracy, in which strange way both new and old and from
the idea arose, the nobility of the oligarchy of the kingdom, the nobility
of the Patriziat in the shade to make. Still, the patrician body, albeit
without substantial estates privileges, but as a closed Junker Guild
continued, but because they have no new gender has been able, she was
over the centuries, more and more zusammengestorben: not more than fuenfzehn
to sixteen patrician gender were still Caesars present. By Caesar,
even a same entsprossen, the right new patrician gender to create, by
referendum decision to the Emperor had issued, he founded, in
contrast to the republican nobility, the new nobility of Patriziats
with all requirements of a monarchical aristocracy: the old gray magic,
completely dependent upon the government and completely meaningless
to the happiest united.

After all sides revealed that the new Herrenrum. A really so full of
monarchs could hardly a constitutional question, let alone because
of the continued existence of the past, on the interaction of the legal
residents, the Senate and the individual. Community-based officers. With
full determination Caesar went back to the tradition of the king
of time: the residents Assembly remained what they have in the time
Koenig was, alongside and with the king of the highest and final
expression of the sovereign people's will, the Senate was back to
its original destination RECONSTITUTED, the Lord, at its request
the Council to grant the ruler finally concentrated in his person
anew the entire official force, so that another independent state
officials next to him was so little like the king of the next oldest
time.

For the legislation of democratic monarch held firmly in the record of
the ancient Roman state law that only the People's Commune in communion
with the job she was the royal possessions, the organic community to
regulate its constitutive and sanctioned by decrees regular folk
final.

The free power and the morally-governmental authority, the yes or no to
that old self-defense teams had been let itself known Komitien this time
wiedereinfloessen; the participation of residents in the legislation,
which in the old Constitution, highly limited, but really was alive and
was in the new, in practical terms, a creature loose shadows. Special
restrictive measures against the Komitien took it not, a vieljaehrige
experience had shown that with this formal sovereign every government, the
oligarchy as the monarch, comfortable auskam. Only insofar as they Caesars
Komitien served to the principle Volkssouveraenitaet noted and vigorously
oppose the Sultanismus to protest, they were an important moment in
the system and indirectly Caesars of practical importance. But also, as
not merely to produce clear, but also witness is determined already by
Caesar himself, and not only by his successors, the other record of
the oldest state law again that what the highest, or rather only
bids officials strictly valid as long as he remains in office, and the
legislation only Koenig and the residents of the community play, but the
royal decree, at least until the disposal of its author, the law is the
same. If the Democrats Koenig So the People's Commune least a formal
share of sovereignty which was, it was opposed by no means his intention,
with past Government, Senator College of violence to divide. Caesars Senate
should - quite unlike the later Augustan - nothing more than a maximum
Reichsrat, which he used to with him vorzuberaten laws and the
important administrative. Disposition by him or at least under his own
name to adopt, because it was clearly also that Senatsbeschluesse
issued, of which by itself than with the editorial staff currently
listed senators had not a clue. It had no major difficulties form, the
Senate returned to its original position due to an advisory from which he
actually more than was legally herausgetreten, while it was
necessary here, and before practical resistance to protect, as the Roman
Senate as the outbreak of opposition to Caesar Attic was like the
one against Perikles Areopag. Mainly for this reason, the number of
senators who previously maximum six hundred in the normal stock
is had and by the recent crises severely waned together was, by extraordinary
supplement to nine hundred, and also to make them at least this amount
to keep the number of Quaestors to be appointed annually, which means the
annually occurring in the Senate members, twenty at forty raised ^ 13
The special supplement of the Senate, the monarch alone before. When
an ordinary secured lasting influence lies in the fact that the choice of
colleges by Law ^ 14 have been committed, the first twenty of the
monarch with a letter of recommendation sent to the candidates Quaestur
to give their votes; Moreover, the Crown was free to the Quaestur or an
overarching Office of honor attached rights, ie including the seat
in the Senate, not exceptionally well-qualified individuals to be awarded.
Ergaenzungswahlen Extraordinary naturally fell significantly to trailers
of the new order of things and brought alongside prestigious Knights
also some doubtful and plebeian individuals in the high corporate
: former, by the censor or judge as a result of a ruling from the
list senators, foreigners from Spain and Gaul, which some in the
Senate until it had to learn Latin, former officers who previously
did not even ring the Knights had, sons of released people or of
those dishonest commercial operation, and similar items more.

The exclusive circles of the nobility to which this transformation of the
Senator staff to bitter anger naturally enough, saw this as a
deliberate vilification of the institution of the Senate itself,
such a self destructive state art Caesar was not ready, he was
equally determined not by its Council reign to be as convinced of
the necessity of the institution itself.

Right they would in this case the intention of the monarch recognized
the Senate's previous character of the exclusive representation
of the oligarchic aristocracy, and to take him back to the making
of what he had been Koenig time: an all classes of nationals by
their most intelligent representing elements and also the low-born
and even the strange man with no need for exclusionary Reichsrat -
just as those kings oldest non-citizen, Caesar drew Nichtitaliker
in its Senate. ------------------ --------------------------------------
^ 13 According to the earlier assumed probability, it would mean
the total number Senators from 1000-1200 revealed. ^ 14 The same,
however, focused only on the elections for the year 711 (43) and
712 (42) (Roman Law, Vol 2, 3rd edition, p. 730), but certainly
should the establishment of engagement are.
--------------------------------------------- ----------- When the
regiment hereby abolished the nobility and their very existence
undermined the Senate in its new form, but nothing more than a tool
of the monarch was, it was also in administration and government
of the State of the autocracy in the sharpest manner and the entire
executive power in the hands of the monarch united.

Above all else, of course, decided in each of any major issue in
the Emperor's own person.

He has managed the regiment in a personal extension, which for us poor
people is rarely understood and not alone from the unprecedented speed
and security of his work is explained, but also even more justified in a
more general cause. If we Caesar, Sulla, Gaius Gracchus, all over
the Roman statesmanlike consistently one of our notions of human labor
over rising activity develop, so the cause lies not in the since that
time, human nature changed, but since that time the organization changed
the house system. The Roman house was a machine in which the Lord, the
intellectual force of his slaves and freedmen zuwuchsen, a gentleman who
understood that to govern, as it worked with countless spirits. It was
the ideal bureaucratic centralization, the nature of our office
with zeal nachstrebt, but behind the archetype as far behind as the
current capital domination behind the ancient slave system.

Caesar understood this advantage: when a particular item takes confidence,
we basically, as far as other considerations allow him the same with his
slaves, freedmen, low-born clients occupy.

His works in the whole show, which is an organizing genius like his with
such a tool orientation could, on the question of how in detail
these wonderful services were performed, we have no adequate answer
- the bureaucracy is like the factory also is that the created not
as the work of the individual appears, it has worked, but as the
factory, which is stamped.

Only this is perfectly clear that Caesar does not quite assistants
in his work has had the same personal influence, or even in the
whole plan would have been inaugurated, he was not only master, but
he also worked without a companion, only with henchmen.

In detail goes without saying that in fact the political affairs of
Caesar as far as possible avoiding any delegate. Where it was unavoidable,
as Caesar named because during his frequent absences from Rome of a
higher institution daselbst certainly needed, it was significant in this
way is not the lawful deputy of the monarch, the Stadtpraefekt
determined, but a confidence man with no officially recognized
competence, usually Caesars banker , the clever and smooth Phoenician
merchant Lucius Cornelius Balbus of Gades.

In the administration Caesar was particularly anxious to ensure that the
keys of the State Treasury to the Senate after the fall of the kingdom
itself and zugeeignet through which he takes possession of the regiment
had to turn to and they are only servants to entrust such, with their
head, it necessarily and exclusively liable. Although the property
remained under the Privatvermoegen the monarch of the course is strictly
Staatsgut divorced, but the management of the entire financial and monetary
system of the state took Caesar in the hand and led her in quite the
way he and about all the great Roman, managing its own assets to lead
cultivated. For the future, the collection of Provinzialgefaelle on the
merits and also the direction of the coinage to the slaves and freedmen
of the Emperor and take over the men senators stand excluded - a sequence
of steps, from which during the period of such important goals
Procuration state and the "imperial House "is developed. In contrast, the
governor of activities, which, after its financial businesses to the new
imperial tax to have been made even more so than in the past were much
Militaerkommandos, was only the Egyptian command to its own people about
the monarch. The peculiar nature in geographically isolated and
politically centralized scenery along the Nile was, as the crisis
during the last several attempts WHICH beleaguered Italian party leaders,
daselbst is set sufficiently proven, as no other suitable district,
under a boost to the duration of Central loszumachen violence. Probably
it was this consideration, the Caesar of the country is not formally
on the province to explain, but the approximate Lagiden daselbst respectively,
and were safe for this reason the legions stationed in Egypt not one in
the Senate, which means Government members of the former husband entrusted,
but this command is similar to the Steuereinnehmerstellen than a Gesinde
items. In general, however, prevailed at the Caesar consideration, not
the soldiers of Rome, as the kings of the East, by lackeys to
command it. It did rule that the Governor's major activities with
unprecedented consuls, the lower with unprecedented praetor to be
filled, instead of the five-year gap, which the law of 702 (52)
required, builds again probably in the old way, the beginning of
the governor shaft directly to the end of the urban Amtstaetigkeit
to.

In contrast, the distribution of the provinces under the qualified
candidates who are soon replaced by people currently or Senate
decision, soon to be by agreement of the officers or by lot was
done, went over to the monarch, and by the consuls were often
prompted by the end of the year abzudanken nachgewaehlten and consuls
(consules suffecti) to make space, and the number of annually
appointed praetor from eight to sixteen and raised to the Emperor
the appointment of half of that in a similar manner as the half of
Quaestors transferred was finally the same right was reserved,
Although not Titularkonsuln but Titularpraetoren as Titularquaestoren
to appoint Caesar is secured for the occupation of the Governor's
activities, a sufficient number of candidates agreeable to him.

The dismissal was, of course, the discretion of the regents leaves,
as well as the appointment, as was generally assumed that the consular
governor not over two, the praetor not over a year in the province
should remain. What finally managing the capital and residence city is
concerned, the emperor intended for a time, apparently, even those
in a similar way by him appointed officials to entrust.

He called the old Stadtverweserschaft of Koenig time back to life, at various
times he gave during his absence, the administrative capital of one or
more such from him without interviewing the people for an indefinite
period and appointed deputies to the shops of all administrative officers
in the unified and even had the right, with its own name, although
of course not with your own picture, coin to beat.
They seemed to have
dreamed of a long horse-car pilgrimage through that squalid street by the
river-side, where presently they came to a market, opening upon the view
hideous vistas of carnage, and then into a wide avenue, with processions
of cars like their own coming and going up and down the centre of a
foolish and useless breadth, which made even the tall buildings (rising
gauntly up among the older houses of one or two stories) on either hand
look low, and let in the sun to bake the dust that the hot breaths of
wind caught up and gent swirling into the shabby shops. Here they dreamed
of the eternal demolition and construction of the city, and farther on of
vacant lots full of granite boulders, clambered over by goats. In their
dream they had fellow-passengers, whose sufferings made them odious and
whom they were glad to leave behind when they alighted from the car, and
running out of the blaze of the avenue, quenched themselves in the shade
of the cross-street. A little strip of shadow lay along the row of
brown-stone fronts, but there were intervals where the vacant lots cast
no shadow. With great bestowal of thought they studied hopelessly how to
avoid these spaces as if they had been difficult torrents or vast
expanses of desert sand; they crept slowly along till they came to such a
place, and dashed swiftly across it, and then, fainter than before, moved
on. They seemed now and then to stand at doors, and to be told that
people were out and again that they were in; and they had a sense of cool
dark parlors, and the airy rustling of light-muslined ladies, of chat and
of fans and ice-water, and then they came forth again; and evermore

     "The day increased from heat to heat."

At last they were aware of an end of their visits, and of a purpose to go
down town again, and of seeking the nearest car by endless blocks of
brown-stone fronts, which with their eternal brownstone flights of steps,
and their handsome, intolerable uniformity, oppressed them like a
procession of houses trying to pass a given point and never getting by.
Upon these streets there was, seldom a soul to be seen, so that when
their ringing at a door had evoked answer, it had startled them with a
vague, sad surprise. In the distance on either hand they could see cars
and carts and wagons toiling up and down the avenues, and on the next
intersecting pavement sometimes a laborer with his jacket slung across
his shoulder, or a dog that had plainly made up his mind to go mad. Up to
the time of their getting into one of those phantasmal cars for the
return down-townwards they had kept up a show of talk in their wretched
dream; they had spoken of other hot days that they had known elsewhere;
and they had wondered that the tragical character of heat had been so
little recognized. They said that the daily New York murder might even at
that moment be somewhere taking place; and that no murder of the whole
homicidal year could have such proper circumstance; they morbidly
wondered what that day's murder would be, and in what swarming
tenement-house, or den of the assassin streets by the river-sides,--if
indeed it did not befall in some such high, close-shuttered, handsome
dwelling as those they passed, in whose twilight it would be so easy to
strike down the master and leave him undiscovered and unmourned by the
family ignorantly absent at the mountains or the seaside. They
conjectured of the horror of midsummer battles, and pictured the anguish
of shipwrecked men upon a tropical coast, and the grimy misery of
stevedores unloading shiny cargoes of anthracite coal at city docks. But
now at last, as they took seats opposite one another in the crowded car,
they seemed to have drifted infinite distances and long epochs asunder.
They looked hopelessly across the intervening gulf, and mutely
questioned when it was and from what far city they or some remote
ancestors of theirs had set forth upon a wedding journey. They bade each
other a tacit farewell, and with patient, pathetic faces awaited the end
of the world.

When they alighted, they took their way up through one of the streets of
the great wholesale businesses, to Broadway. On this street was a throng
of trucks and wagons lading and unlading; bales and boxes rose and sank
by pulleys overhead; the footway was a labyrinth of packages of every
shape and size: there was no flagging of the pitiless energy that moved
all forward, no sign of how heavy a weight lay on it, save in the reeking
faces of its helpless instruments. But when the wedding-journeyers
emerged upon Broadway, the other passages and incidents of their dream
faded before the superior fantasticality of the spectacle. As important
as the preservation of this land, it is essential to amend the proportion
in which he has previously confessed. If inspection of the Poor, Adverse
old principles and institutions at all and thus the related previous
education and education appropriations, so The idea, which is initially
on the surface darbietet, the complete abolition and elimination of same.
But the wisdom of the government, slightly elevated on these seemingly
help to fulfill the true nature of time is necessary because the old
woman in a new relationship on the whole, and thus the essence is the
same as much as they changed it and renewed . I just need a few words
to the known position to remember that learning the Latin language once
had that same not only for a moment of course was taught, but the major
part of it and since the only higher education funding was the one which
was presented, which is not in the general, all classes are Aryan
element would remain, that the acquisition of other knowledge, which for
the bourgeois life or useful in and of itself of value are rarely made
explicit channels, but it is all over the opportunity of the alder that
language was left to decide whether something is and how much of them
anflog - that some of those skills for a specific art, yet not for an
education and resources were mostly in the shell were shrouded. The general
voice was raised against that unfortunate made learning Latin ; there
was the feeling mainly that not as a nation can be formed, which is not
all the treasures of science in its own language and express it in every
content can move freely. This intimacy with one's own language which
belongs to us, lacking the knowledge that we only have a strange, they
are characterized by a separating wall separated from us, the spirit
which they are not truly native can be. This point of view, the
bad, often to the universal mechanism of reducing methods, liable to
the acquisition of many important intellectual skills and expertise has
gradually shifted the knowledge of the Latin language of its claims,
as the principal to apply science, and their long asserted dignity, and
almost exclusively general education funds to be deducted. It has ceased
to be regarded as an end, and this mental employment has called on the
other hand, objects, and below the ordinary, sensuous things that have no
educational material must be capable, via the powerful must see.
Without these opposites and its other provisions, their
exaggerations or external address collisions, it is sufficient
here, we show the relationship be pleased that our highest government
has fixed herein.

Erstlich has the same through the perfection of the German schools,
the general public education expanded, it This will give everyone the means
to them as people and essentials for their booth to learn useful,
those who are the better so far lacking is the same it shall be granted,
but which, by slightly better than the lack of general lessons to
obtain only referred to the education funding could take is the same and
made expendable by better knowledge and skills replaced .-- The local
town is full of this organization the largest part of the rest of
the Kingdom has already proven beneficial, forward - a boon, whose
important consequences for the whole community can hardly be
calculated. Secondly, the study of science and the acquisition of higher
intellectual skills and useful in its independence from the old literature,
in a separate sister institution get its full funding. Third, finally,
the ancient language study received. It is partly as a higher education
means any open, but sometimes it is the basis of thorough scholarly study
was fastened. By the same now apart of that force, it is his exclusively
and may become deprived of the hatred against his previous claims have
eradicated. So on the side force, it has the more the right to
require that in his deposition should grant free and strange,
disturbing interference also remained unmolested. This excretion and
limitation has its true position and the opportunity to are so free
and full training can be. The real indicator of freedom and strength of
an organization is, if the distinguished moments, it contains in itself
to deepen and complete systems, without envy and fear to drive their
work side by side and see it float, and all that again only parts of a
whole are great. Only what is isolated in its principle makes perfect,
is a consistent whole, that is something, it gains depth and the
strong possibility of versatility.

The concern and anxiety about one-sidedness cares too often the weak who
will only versatile inconsequential superficiality is capable. If the
study of ancient languages like before the foundation of education is
taught, it is also very limiting in this claim have been . It seems a fair
claim to be that the culture, art and science of a people on their own
legs to stand come. Can we expect the formation of the new world, our
education and the progress of all Arts and Sciences do not believe that
the Greek and Roman children's shoes have represented their old gang
grow on their own land to build? The works of the ancients still wants it
bigger or smaller value will remain depressed, but they had in the series
of memoirs, scholarly idle curiosities in the history just cancel
that one could begin or not, but not simply for our higher education
mind basis and should represent the beginning.

Let it, however, that even the noble can be assumed, then for the higher
studies the literature of the Greeks especially, and then the Romans, the
basis to be and to remain. The glory and perfection of these masterpieces,
the spiritual bath, the secular baptism be that of the soul and the first
captive tone and tincture of taste and science there. And for this
inauguration is not a general, external acquaintance with the Old enough,
but we need them in food and housing, in order to air their
ideas, their customs, even if you will, their errors and prejudices, and
in einzusaugen native to this world, - the most beautiful that was. If
the first paradise, the paradise of human nature, so this is the second,
the higher, the paradise of the human spirit, in its beautiful simplicity,
freedom, depth and serenity as the bride from her chamber body. The
first wild splendor of his rise in the morning landing is the glory of
the form defined and mitigated to the beauty it has its depth is no
longer in the obscurity, inflated or dreary, but it is open to uninhibited
clarity, its serenity is not an infantile games but the melancholy
hergebreitet which the hardness of fate knows, but they are not from the
freedom they have and the extent of it. I think not too much to say
when I say that anyone who works of the ancients is not known, has
lived without the beauty of knowing.

In such elements now by us [is] Einhaus, it happens not only that all
forces of the mind stimulated, developed and practiced, but that is a
peculiar substance, by which we enrich ourselves and our substance
to prepare better.

It's been said that the mental activity of any substance can be
practiced, and as appropriate substance outwardly appeared partly useful,
partly the sensual objects which the child or adolescent age were most
appropriate by the parties and the nature of the presentation Ellen belong,
already at this age and have for themselves. If maybe, maybe not,
the Formal of the matter, even the practice of the present circles,
where it should be done, then separated and indifferent on the other hand,
might be so but it is not the practice to be done alone.

Like the plant that their reproductive forces of light and air not
only performs, but in this process at the same time their food
einsaugt, so must the substance on which the mind and the ability
of the soul ever developed and exercises, while his food.

Not those so-called useful substance, those sensuous Materiatur how
it directly in the imagination of the child falls, only the intellectual
content of what value and interest in and for itself has, strengthens the
soul and gives these independent stop, this substantial inwardness,
which the mother of text, of prudence, the present and the guards of the
Spirit is, it produces large towed him to a soul purpose, until
the foundation of usefulness to all makes and it is important at all
levels to plant. Have we not in recent times even states himself that
such a background in the inner soul of its members to maintain and
expand neglected and despised them at the mere utility and on the mental
only as a means to set in haltungslos off dangers and in the middle of
their many useful resources collapse see? The finest food substance now
and in the noblest form, the golden apples in silver bowls, containing
the works of the ancients, and incomparably more than any other
Weke any time and nation. I need to Großheit their attitudes in their
plastic, by virtue free of moral ambiguity and patriotism, in the grand
style of its deeds and characters, the Various their fates, their
customs and constitutions only be remembered for the allegation
to justify that to the extent not so much educational excellence, admirably,
original, versatile and instructive was united. This wealth, however,
is tied to language, and only through and in this we achieve it
in all its peculiarity.

The contents give us some translations, but not the form, not the ethereal
soul of it. They are made in accordance with the roses, to shape, color,
for example, the natural fragrance may be similar, but the sweetness,
tenderness and softness of life to reach those not. Or the other
delicacy and fineness of only one copy of this at which a contrast
between the content and not its adult form is palpable. Language is
the musical element, the element of intimacy, which disappears in the
transmission, -- -the subtle scent, by the sympathy of the soul
to enjoy, but without the work of the Old Rhine just tastes like wine,
which is verduftet. This fact sets us hard apparently need to take the
languages of the Old thorough study and they are familiar to us to make
to their works in the possible extent of all their pages and be able
to enjoy the benefits. When we talk about the trouble that we
have to apply this, wanted to complain and it could be fear or
regret, the acquisition of other knowledge and skills that need to
be reset, so we would have the fate adjudged to us in our own
language is not the classical circle works, give to that gave us
the painstaking journey to ancient times and made expendable
replacement for the same grant.

Once I get from the talk of educational materials, this desire to say a few
words about the Formal to say that in their nature lies. The progress
of education is not as quiet Continue to be a chain, whose former members
of the following with regard to them would be added, but from personal
matter and that without this further work against the former would be
addressed. But the education must have a previous substance and subject,
of which she works, she changed and re-formed. It is necessary that we
look at the world of antiquity acquire so much to them to possess
more than to have something to which we process .-- But the objects
to be, the substance of nature and Spirit gegenübergetreten us,
they must take the form of something strangeness received .-- Unhappy
of the immediate world of his feelings will be alienated, because
this means nothing else than that the individual bonds, which the
mind and thoughts with the holy life friends, love faith and trust,
he is torn - the alienation, the condition of the theoretical
education is, these calls do not meet these moral pain, not the
suffering of the heart, but the ease of pain and effort of the
imagination, with a non-immediate, one is unfamiliar with some of
the memories, the memories and thinking to employ nationals .--
This requirement of the separation but is so necessary that they
be regarded as a general and well-known train manifests in us.

     The third type, the distance, the attractive interest that is our
job and strive to attract, and the desire values are in inverse
relationship with the proximity in which it stands and in common
with us.

The youth, it proved a lucky to get away from the locals and Robinson with
a distant island to inhabit.

It is a necessary illusion, the first depth in the form of the distance
to search, but the depth and strength that we gain can only be measured
by the width, in which we hinwegflogen of the centers in which we
first sunk and we were again zustreben. On these Zentrifugaltrieb the
soul is now based on the need to divorce them from their natural
state of being and examines its own administration and a distant, alien
world in the young minds into it to have. The vaginal wall, though,
so this separation for the formation of what we are talking about,
accomplished, is the world and language of the ancients, but which
separates us from ourselves, yet contains all the starting points and
threads, the return to itself, the friends with her and of the re-finding
itself, but its true after the general nature of the mind. This general
need, what the world of the imagination so much as the language as
such covers, if we learn to apply the latter, it sheds light of saying
that the mechanical side of it more than just a necessary evil. Because
that is the mechanical [the] spirit of strangers for whom it has an
interest in him hineingelegte undigested to digest, which he understood
to be still and lifeless on his property to make.
There is no other travel like river travel; it is the
perfection of movement, and one might well desire never to arrive at
one's destination. The abundance of room, the free, pure air, the
constant delight of the eyes in the changing landscape, the soft tremor
of the boat, so steady upon her keel, the variety of the little world on
board,--all form a charm which no good heart in a sound body can resist.
So, whilst the twilight held, well content, in contiguous chairs, they
purred in flattery of their kindly fate, imagining different pleasures,
certainly, but none greater, and tasting to its subtlest flavor the
happiness conscious of itself.

Their own satisfaction, indeed, was so interesting to them in this
objective light, that they had little desire to turn from its
contemplation to the people around them; and when at last they did so, it
was still with lingering glances of self-recognition and enjoyment. They
divined rightly that one of the main conditions of their present felicity
was the fact that they had seen so much of time and of the world, that
they had no longer any desire to take beholding eyes, or to make any sort
of impressive figure, and they understood that their prosperous love
accounted as much as years and travel for this result. If they had had a
loftier opinion of themselves, their indifference to others might have
made them offensive; but with their modest estimate of their own value in
the world, they could have all the comfort of self-sufficiency, without
its vulgarity.

"O yes!" said Basil, in answer to some apostrophe to their bliss from
Isabel, "it's the greatest imaginable satisfaction to have lived past
certain things. I always knew that I was not a very handsome or otherwise
captivating person, but I can remember years--now blessedly remote--when
I never could see a young girl without hoping she would mistake me for
something of that sort. I couldn't help desiring that some fascination of
mine, which had escaped my own analysis, would have an effect upon her. I
dare say all young men are so. I used to live for the possible interest I
might inspire in your sex, Isabel. They controlled my movements, my
attitudes; they forbade me repose; and yet I believe I was no ass, but a
tolerably sensible fellow. Blessed be marriage, I am free at last! All
the loveliness that exists outside of you, dearest,--and it 's mighty
little,--is mere pageant to me; and I thank Heaven that I can meet the
most stylish girl now upon the broad level of our common humanity.
Besides, it seems to me that our experience of life has quieted us in
many other ways. What a luxury it is to sit here, and reflect that we do
not want any of these people to suppose us rich, or distinguished, or
beautiful, or well dressed, and do not care to show off in any sort of
way before them!"

This content was heightened, no doubt, by a just sense of their contrast
to the group of people nearest there,--a young man of the second or third
quality--and two young girls. The eldest of these was carrying on a
vivacious flirtation with the young man, who was apparently an
acquaintance of brief standing; the other was scarcely more than a child,
and sat somewhat abashed at the sparkle of the colloquy. They were
conjecturally sisters going home from some visit, and not skilled in the
world, but of a certain repute in their country neighborhood for beauty
and wit. The young man presently gave himself out as one who, in pursuit
of trade for the dry-goods house he represented, had travelled many
thousands of miles in all parts of the country. The encounter was visibly
that kind of adventure which both would treasure up for future
celebration to their different friends; and it had a brilliancy and
interest which they could not even now consent to keep to themselves.
They talked to each other and at all the company within hearing, and
exchanged curt speeches which had for them all the sensation of repartee.

Young Man. They say that beauty unadorned is adorned the most.

Young Woman (bridling, and twitching her head from side to side, in the
high excitement of the dialogue). Flattery is out of place.

Young Man. Well, never mind. If you don't believe me, you ask your mother
when you get home.

(Titter from the younger sister.)

Young Woman (scornfully). Umph! my mother has no control over me!

Young Man. Nobody else has, either, I should gay. (Admiringly.)

Young Woman. Yes, you've told the truth for once, for a wonder. I'm able
to take care of myself,--perfectly. (Almost hoarse with a sense of
sarcastic performance.)

Young Man. "Whole team and big dog under the wagon," as they say out
West.

Young Woman. Better a big dog than a puppy, any day.

Giggles and horror from the younger sister, sensation in the young man,
and so much rapture in the young woman that she drops the key of her
state-room from her hand. They both stoop, and a jocose scuffle for it
ensues, after which the talk takes an autobiographical turn on the part
of the young man, and drops into an unintelligible murmur. "Ah! poor Real
Life, which I love, can I make others share the delight I find in thy
foolish and insipid face?"

Not far from this group sat two Hebrews, one young and the other old,
talking of some business out of which the latter had retired. The younger
had been asked his opinion upon some point, and he was expanding with a
flattered consciousness of the elder's perception of his importance, and
toadying to him with the pleasure which all young men feel in winning the
favor of seniors in their vocation. "Well, as I was a-say'n', Isaac don't
seem to haf no natcheral pent for the glothing business. Man gomes in and
wands a goat,"--he seemed to be speaking of a garment and not a domestic
animal,--"Isaac'll zell him the goat he wands him to puy, and he'll make
him believe it 'a the goat he was a lookin' for. Well, now, that's well
enough as far as it goes; but you know and I know, Mr. Rosenthal, that
that 's no way to do business. A man gan't zugzeed that goes upon that
brincible. Id's wrong. Id's easy enough to make a man puy the goat you
want him to, if he wands a goat, but the thing is to make him puy the
goat that you wand to zell when he don't wand no goat at all. You've
asked me what I thought and I've dold you. Isaac'll never zugzeed in the
redail glothing-business in the world!"

"Well," sighed the elder, who filled his armchair quite full, and
quivered with a comfortable jelly-like tremor in it, at every pulsation
of the engine, "I was afraid of something of the kind. As you say,
Benjamin, he don't seem to have no pent for it. And yet I proughd him up
to the business; I drained him to it, myself."

Besides these talkers, there were scattered singly, or grouped about in
twos and threes and fours, the various people one encounters on a Hudson
River boat, who are on the whole different from the passengers on other
rivers, though they all have features in common. There was that man of
the sudden gains, who has already been typified; and there was also the
smoother rich man of inherited wealth, from whom you can somehow know the
former so readily. They were each attended by their several retinues of
womankind, the daughters all much alike, but the mothers somewhat
different. They were going to Saratoga, where perhaps the exigencies of
fashion would bring them acquainted, and where the blue blood of a
quarter of a century would be kind to the yesterday's fluid of warmer
hue. There was something pleasanter in the face of the hereditary
aristocrat, but not so strong, nor, altogether, so admirable;
particularly if you reflected that he really represented nothing in the
world, no great culture, no political influence, no civic aspiration, not
even a pecuniary force, nothing but a social set, an alien club-life, a
tradition of dining. We live in a true fairy land after all, where the
hoarded treasure turns to a heap of dry leaves. The almighty dollar
defeats itself, and finally buys nothing that a man cares to have. The
very highest pleasure that such an American's money can purchase is
exile, and to this rich man doubtless Europe is a twice-told tale. Let us
clap our empty pockets, dearest reader, and be glad.

We can be as glad, apparently, and with the same reason as the poorly
dressed young man standing near beside the guard, whose face Basil and
Isabel chose to fancy that of a poet, and concerning whom, they romanced
that he was going home, wherever his home was, with the manuscript of a
rejected book in his pocket. When the rule was established, were the attempts
to shake off it, either wholly kopflos undertaken, or they were more
cheaply than the individual works great and noble about the death or capture
of a Indutiomarus, Camulogenus, Vercingetorix, Correus immediately and
completely to an end . The siege and the small war in which otherwise
the entire moral depth of the People's War unfolded, and had remained in
this wretched characteristic of Celtic. Each sheet of Celtic history
confirms the strict words of one of the few Romans who understood it, the
so-called barbarians, not to despise that the Celts impudent challenge
future danger, before the contemporary but the courage entsinkt them.
In the huge vortex of world history, all is not equal to the steel and
hard steel is equal to the smooth Voelker mercilessly crushed, could
such a nation on the length does not argue; cheap Celtic suffered the
same fate of the mainland by the Romans, their comrades on the root the
island of Ireland to this day inside of the Saxons suffer: the
fate of future development as Gaerungsstoff to be working in a state
superior nationality. The notion of the strange nation to distinguish,
it may be allowed, nor should be recalled that in the reports of the
ancients about the Celts in the Loire and Seine hardly a characteristic
of the trains is missing, in which we are accustomed to, to Paddy
recognize.

It finds everything again: the nonchalance in the order of the fields,
and the lust for mines and scrap the Prahlhansigkeit - we recall that in
the sacred grove of Arverni after the victory of Gergovia hang sword
of Caesar, his alleged former owner to the sacred sites smilingly looked
at the Holy Well and carefully ordered to save the speech is full
of comparisons and hyperbolas, of allusions and baroque phrases, and the
droll sense of humor - an excellent example of this is the statute
that if one word into the public speaking falls , Stoerenfried the police
in respect of crude and probably visible hole in the rock is cut and the
deep joy of singing and tales of the deeds of antiquity and the speakers
firmly and Dichtergabe; curiosity - no merchant will pass before it in the
open Street has told what he knows of news or do not know - and the great
gullible, to such news is out, so the more organized the Canton of
migrant people in severe punishment was prohibited, uncertified reports
other than municipal officials tell the childlike piety, in the priest
and the father sees him in all things, asked for advice; the
unsurpassed warmth of Nationalgefuehls and almost family-like cohesion
in the country people against strangers, and the inclined below the
first best guide to aufzulehnen and forming gangs, but also the
completely unable to secure from such high spirits away from the
faint courage to preserve the right time to wait to hit and exercise,
to any organization, at any fixed military or political discipline
to reach or even to tolerate it.

It is and remains at all times and all places of the same lazy and poetic,
and heartfelt schwachmuetige, inquisitive, gullible, lovable,
intelligent, but politically and unusable by nation, and this is
also its destiny and always have been the same everywhere.

But that this great nation through wars transalpinische Caesar was based,
is not the most important result of this great company; folge far richer
than the negative, the positive result. It suffers little doubt
that if the Senate his regiment sham still some people living longer
gefristet age would have called Voelkerwanderung four hundred years
earlier would be entered as they occurred, and would be entered at a
time when the Italic civilization is not in Gaul still on the
Danube is still in Africa and Spain had established at home. By the great
captain and statesman of Rome with secure view the German tribes
in the equal enemy of the Roman-Greek world knew, by the new offensive
system with a solid defense to hand himself into the individual was
justified and that the Reich borders through rivers, or artificial
ramparts to defend along the border the next Barbarenstaemme to
colonize distant defense of the Roman army recruited by people from
enemy countries recruit taught, he won the Hellenic-Italian culture
with the necessary time to the West to civilize as well as the East
already it civilized was.

Ordinary people see the fruits of their actions, the Same, the ingenious
natures spread, goes on slowly. It took centuries, until one realized
that Alexander is not just a ephemeral kingdom established in the
east, but the Hellenism to Asia have taken; back centuries, until one
realized that not just Caesar the Romans conquered a new province,
but the Romanization of the Western Landscapes reasons. Also of those
military carelessly and initially unsuccessful trainloads to England
and Germany have only the descendants of the late sense recognized.
A tremendous Voelkerkreis, whose existence and condition of the hitherto
little sailors and merchant of some truth and many seals had been
reported, it was the Roman-Greek world-minded.

"Every day", says in a roman font from May 698 (56), "reported the Gallic
letters and messages we previously unknown names of peoples, Gauen
and landscapes."

This extension of the historical horizon through Caesars trains beyond the
Alps was a world-historical event, as well as the exploration of America
for European crowds. To close the circle of the Mediterranean countries
joined the Central and Northern European peoples, the residents of the
East and the North Sea, adding to the old world a new, now influenced
by those they influenced and grew. There is not much missing that already
Ariovist the party was what the later Gothic Theodoric succeeded.
Had this happened, so would our civilization to the Roman-Greek innerlicheren
difficult in a relationship than to the Indian and Assyrian culture. That
Hellas and Italy past glory to the pride of building the world history
is a newer bridge hinueberfuehrt that Western Europe Roman, Germanic
Europe, the classic is that the names and Scipio Themistokles for us
have a different sound than Asoka and Salmanassar that Homer and Sophocles
not like the Vedas and Kalidasa only literary botanist attract, but in
our own garden to flourish, it is Caesar's works, and if the creation
of his great predecessor in the east of the storm surges in the
Middle Ages was almost completely smashed, so has the construction
of Caesars survived millennia the human race religion and the state
turns the focus of civilization itself moved him, and for what we
call eternity, he stands upright.

To the image of the ratio of Rome to the peoples of the north at this
time to complete, it is still left to take a look at the scenery to
throw the north of the Italian and the Greek peninsula, sources from the
Rhine to the Black Sea cover. Although in the vast Voelkergetuemmel
that there was gewogt may have ranges as the torch of history and not
the individual Streiflichter who fall into this area, such as the
weak glow in deep darkness, more likely to confuse than enlighten.

However, it is the duty of the historian, but also the gaps in the book to
describe the Voelkergeschichte he should not disdain, in addition to
great Caesar's meager defense system of institutions to do so by
the leaders of the Senate after this side the border to supposedly
protect . from the north-west Italy remained the attacks of the
alpine Voelkerschaften released.

That in the year 695 (59) stored at Aquileia strong Roman army and the
triumph of Cisalpinischen governor of Gaul, Lucius Afranius can conclude
that at this time an expedition in the Alps took place, which is a
consequence may be that we soon the Romans in closer connection with a
King of Noriker find.

But even after Italy speak of this page was not secured, proving the
case about the thriving city Tergeste by the Alpine barbarians in the
year 702 (52), when the transalpinische Insurrektion Caesar had coerced,
Oberallgäu of troops throughout Italy to expose. Even the troubled peoples
of the occupied Kuestenstrich Illyrian, Roman men did their stockpiles.
The dalmatic, earlier the respectable people of this area, magnified
by the inclusion of the neighbors in their association is so handsome
that the number of their villages of twenty to eighty rose.

When she Promona the city (not far from Kerkafluss) which they had
snatched the Liburnia this wiederherauszugeben refused to let Caesar after
the battle Pharsalischen marching against them, but the Romans were here
first, the shorter, and consequently became Dalmatien for some
time a stove of the hostile party, and Caesar was the military
Caesars by the inhabitants, in conjunction with the Pompeianern and
with the pirates on land and water vigorously resisted.

Makedonien finally together Hellas Epirus and was so up and down like no
other Part of the Roman Empire. Dyrrhachion, Thessalon, Byzantion
had some trade and transport; Athens attracted by his name and school
philosophers, travelers and students, but the whole was over Hellas'
once popular rich cities and harbors menschenwimmelnden the rest of the
tomb. But if the Greeks are not stimulated, then sat on the other hand,
the inhabitants of the Macedonian mountains are difficult to access
the old way their Raubzuege and feuds continue, such as for example,
697/98 (57/56) Agraeer and Doloper the aetolischen cities, in the
years 700 (54) in the Drintaelern resident Pirusten overrunning the
southern Illyria.

Equally, it is the residents. The Dardan on the northern border such as
the Thracians in the east, although achtjaehrigen battles in the 676 to
683 (78-71) by the Romans have been humiliated, the most powerful among
the Thracian prince, the Lord of old Odrysenreichs Kotys, promised
since the Roman clientele Koeniger beigezaehlt . Solo nonetheless had
pacified the country remains from the north and east to suffer
incursions.

The governor Gaius Antonius was Uebel heimgeschickt, both by the
Dardan, as well as in the present Dobruja resident tribes, with the
help of the left bank of the Danube herbeigezogenen, Bastarner
feared him Istropolis (Istere near Kustendsche) a significant defeat
Taught (692 -- 693 62-61). happy challenged Gaius Octavius against
better and Thracians (694 60).

In contrast, Marcus Piso (697-698 57-56) turn as Mr. Oberfeld very bad
business, which is no surprise, since he money to friends and foes
granted what they wished.

The Thracian Dentheleten (on the Strymon) plunder under his governorship
Makedonien far and wide and put on the large, of Thessalon Dyrrhachion
after leading Roman Heerstrasse themselves from their posts in
Thessalon, they merely taken them from a siege bearable, while the
strong Roman army in the province since only seemed to be to watch
how the mountain people and the peaceful Nachbarvoelker the subjects
of Rome burning.

Likewise attacks were certainly not jeopardize Rome's power, and a shame
more was no longer on.

But just at this time began beyond the Danube, in the vast steppes of
Dacian, a nation state is to consolidate, which is a different
role in the story seemed determined to play better than that and
the Dentheleten.

For Geten or Dakern was in ancient times the Kingdom of the people a holy
man to the side force, Zalmoxis, which is, after the Gods ways and wonders
of travel in the wide-residents, especially exploring the wisdom of the
Egyptian priests and Greek Pythagoreans fathoms had in his home was
zurueckgekommen order in a cave of the 'Holy Mountain' as a pious
hermit's life to decide.

Only the king and his minions, he remained accessible and donated to him
and through him the people of his oracle for every important start.

His fellow countrymen, he was regarded initially as a priest of God's
highest and most recently as a god himself, as it is similar to Moses
and Aaron is said that the Lord to Aaron the prophet of God and the
prophet Moses had set. It was to be a permanent institution: as of right,
was the King of Geten such a God to the side, from whose lips came
everything seemed to come or what the king commanded. This peculiar
constitution, where the theocratic idea of how it seems to serve absolute
Koenig violence had become, like the kings getischen a position
against their subjects, where, like the Caliph against it on the Arabs
have, and one result was the wonderful religio-political reform of
the nation, which at this time the King of Geten, Burebistas, and God,
Dekaeneos, could be crystallized. The notably through unprecedented
gluttony morally entirely dilapidated state and became popular through
the new temperate-Tapferkeitsevangelium and as converted, so to speak,
with its puritanical disciplined and enthusiastic crowds, King
Burebistas within a few years, a huge empire, on both banks of the
Danube, and spread southward until deep into Thrace, Illyria, and
the Nordic countries it ranged.

A direct contact with the Romans had not yet taken place, and nobody could
say what this strange, to the beginnings of Islam-like state
assets; but liked it, even without a prophet to be predicting that
proconsuls like Anthony and Piso were not appointed, with gods argue
8.

Chapter Pompey and Caesar's total domination Of the Democrats, leaders who
have been Caesar's consulate, as it were officially called the
Community rulers of the community, as the ruling "Dreimaenner" were
recognized, accepted by public opinion to be the first place Pompey
On.

He was the Optimat the "private dictator" was called, before he did his
vain Cicero foot case, it was the sharpest sarcasm in the wall
posters of Bibulus the poisonous darts in the lounge speeches of
the opposition.

It was only in the order.

According to the undisputed facts was Pompey's first captain of his time,
Caesar Parteifuehrer a skilled speaker and party, of undeniable talent,
but equally well by unkriegerischem, yes womanish nature. These judgments
have long been familiar, you could make it from the mob does not
expect it to understand the nature of things and care once established
platitudes because obscure exploits on Tajo abandon. Caesar apparently
played in the league only the role of the aide, the boss of his said, what
Flavius, Afranius and other, less capable tools and attempts were not made.
Even his governorship, this relationship seemed not to change.

A very similar position had recently Afranius used without question to
mean something special, while several provinces have in recent years
wiederholentlich under a governor, and often far more than four legions
in one hand have been united, as it is beyond the Alps again quietly and
Fuerst Ariovist by the Romans as a friend and neighbor was recognized,
it was not keeping a lookout for any significant war. The comparison
of the positions, as Pompey by Gabin-Manil, Caesar by Vatin Act, had
received was close, but they were not to benefit from Caesars. Pompey
bade over almost the entire Roman Empire, Caesar over two provinces.

Pompey were the soldiers and the coffers of the government nearly
unlimited available, Caesar only the totals and he initiated an
army 24000 Pompey man was anheimgegeben, the date of resignation,
free to determine for themselves; Caesar's command, he is also in
the long run, but but only on a limited time saved.

Now, in reward, they found themselves quite
comfortable in the common passenger-car, and disposed to view the
scenery, into which they struck an hour after leaving the city, with much
complacency. There was sufficient draught through the open window to make
the heat tolerable, and the great brooding warmth gave to the landscape
the charm which it alone can impart. It is a landscape that I greatly
love for its mild beauty and tranquil picturesqueness, and it is in honor
of our friends that I say they enjoyed it. There are nowhere any
considerable hills, but everywhere generous slopes and pleasant hollows
and the wide meadows of a grazing country, with the pretty brown Mohawk
River rippling down through all, and at frequent intervals the life of
the canal, now near, now far away, with the lazy boats that seem not to
stir, and the horses that the train passes with a whirl, and, leaves
slowly stepping forward and swiftly slipping backward. There are farms
that had once, or still have, the romance to them of being Dutch
farms,--if there is any romance in that,--and one conjectures a Dutch
thrift in their waving grass and grain. Spaces of woodland here and there
dapple the slopes, and the cozy red farm-houses repose by the side of
their capacious red barns. Truly, there is no ground on which to defend
the idleness, and yet as the train strives furiously onward amid these
scenes of fertility and abundance, I like in fancy to loiter behind it,
and to saunter at will up and down the landscape. I stop at the farm-yard
gates, and sit upon the porches or thresholds, and am served with cups of
buttermilk by old Dutch ladies who have done their morning's work and
have leisure to be knitting or sewing; or if there are no old ladies,
with decent caps upon their gray hair, then I do not complain if the
drink is brought me by some red-cheeked, comely young girl, out of
Washington Irving's pages, with no cap on her golden braids, who mirrors
my diffidence, and takes an attitude of pretty awkwardness while she
waits till I have done drinking. In the same easily contented spirit as I
lounge through the barn-yard, if I find the old hens gone about their
family affairs, I do not mind a meadow-lark's singing in the top of the
elm-tree beside the pump. In these excursions the watch-dogs know me for
a harmless person, and will not open their eyes as they lie coiled up in
the sun before the gate. At all the places, I have the people keep bees,
and, in the garden full of worthy pot-herbs, such idlers in the vegetable
world as hollyhocks and larkspurs and four-o'clocks, near a great bed in
which the asparagus has gone to sleep for the season with a dream of
delicate spray hanging over it. I walk unmolested through the farmer's
tall grass, and ride with him upon the perilous seat of his voluble
mowing-machine, and learn to my heart's content that his name begins with
Van, and that his family has owned that farm ever since the days of the
Patroon; which I dare say is not true. Then I fall asleep in a corner of
the hayfield, and wake up on the tow-path of the canal beside that
wonderfully lean horse, whose bones you cannot count only, because they
are so many. He never wakes up, but, with a faltering under-lip and
half-shut eyes, hobbles stiffly on, unconscious of his anatomical
interest. The captain hospitably asks me on board, with a twist of the
rudder swinging the stern of the boat up to the path, so that I can step
on. She is laden with flour from the valley of the Genesee, and may have
started on her voyage shortly after the canal was made. She is succinctly
manned by the captain, the driver, and the cook, a fiery-haired lady of
imperfect temper; and the cabin, which I explore, is plainly furnished
with a cook-stove and a flask of whiskey. Nothing but profane language is
allowed on board; and so, in a life of wicked jollity and ease, we glide
imperceptibly down the canal, unvexed by the far-off future of arrival.

Such, I say, are my own unambitious mental pastimes, but I am aware that
less superficial spirits could not be satisfied with them, and I can not
pretend that my wedding-journeyers were so.

They cast an absurd poetry over the landscape; they invited themselves to
be reminded of passages of European travel by it; and they placed villas
and castles and palaces upon all the eligible building-sites. Ashamed of
these devices, presently, Basil patriotically tried to reconstruct the
Dutch and Indian past of the Mohawk Valley, but here he was foiled by the
immense ignorance of his wife, who, as a true American woman, knew
nothing of the history of her own country, and less than nothing of the
barbarous regions beyond the borders of her native province. She proved a
bewildering labyrinth of error concerning the events which Basil
mentioned; and she had never even heard of the massacres by the French
and Indians at Schenectady, which he in his boyhood had known so vividly
that he was scalped every night in his dreams, and woke up in the morning
expecting to see marks of the tomahawk on the head-board. So, failing at
last to extract any sentiment from the scenes without, they turned their
faces from the window, and looked about them for amusement within the
car.

It was in all respects an ordinary carful of human beings, and it was
perhaps the more worthy to be studied on that account. As in literature
the true artist will shun the use even of real events if they are of an
improbable character, so the sincere observer of man will not desire to
look upon the heroic or occasional phases, but will seek him in his
habitual moods of vacancy and tiresomeness. To me, at any rate, he is at
such times very precious; and I never perceive him to be so much a man
and a brother as when I feel the pressure of his vast, natural,
unaffected dullness. Then I am able to enter confidently into his life
and inhabit there, to think his shallow and feeble thoughts, to be moved
by his dumb, stupid desires, to be dimly illumined by his stinted
inspirations, to share his foolish prejudices, to practice his obtuse
selfishness. Yes, it is a very amusing world, if you do not refuse to be
amused; and our friends were very willing to be entertained. They
delighted in the precise, thick-fingered old ladies who bought sweet
apples of the boys come aboard with baskets, and who were so long in
finding the right change, that our travellers, leaping in thought with
the boys from the moving train, felt that they did so at the peril of
their lives. Then they were interested in people who went out and found
their friends waiting for them, or else did not find them, and wandered
disconsolately up and down before the country stations, carpet-bag in
hand; in women who came aboard, and were awkwardly shaken hands with or
sheepishly kissed by those who hastily got seats for them, and placed
their bags or their babies in their laps, and turned for a nod at the
door; in young ladies who were seen to places by young men the latter
seemed not to care if the train did go off with them, and then threw up
their windows and talked with girl-friends, on the platform without, till
the train began to move, and at last turned with gleaming eyes and moist
red lips, and panted hard in the excitement of thinking about it, and
could not calm themselves to the dull level of the travel around them; in
the conductor, coldly and inaccessibly vigilant, as he went his rounds,
reaching blindly for the tickets with one hand while he bent his head
from time, to time, and listened with a faint, sarcastic smile to the
questions of passengers who supposed they were going to get some
information out of him; in the trainboy, who passed through on his many
errands with prize candies, gum-drops, pop-corn, papers and magazines,
and distributed books and the police journals with a blind impartiality,
or a prodigious ignorance, or a supernatural perception of character in
those who received them.

Not long it took, however, the citizens, the lighthouse island off ^ 8 and
closed because of the narrow mouth of the east side klippige for larger
vessels entirely, so that Caesar's fleet was forced to open roadstead
before Osthafen to station and its connection with the See only a
weak thread to hang. Caesar's fleet, at that roadstead to repeatedly
by the enemy's superior naval power attacked, could not dodge the
unequal struggle, since the loss of her lighthouse island sealed the
inner harbor, nor the wide search, as the loss of the roadstead Caesar
throughout the lake would have shut off. Although the valiant
legionaries, supported by the agility of the Rhodian sailors, yet still
these battles in favor of the Romans had decided it renewed and increased
but the Alexandrine unermuedeter perseverance with their Flottenruestungen
the besieged had to beat as often as the rubber Popular , and those
were one time to overcome, so Caesar was completely enclosed and probably
lost. It was bad, but necessary, an attempt to restore the lighthouse
island to make. The zwiefache attack by boats from the port through
which warships from the sea made her ward, did in fact not only the
island but also the lower part of the dam in Caesar's power, and only
the second of the dam Bogenoeffnung ordered Caesar and stop the
dam against the city by a Querwall block. Solo here during the hot
Schanz ends battle relax naked in the bottom of the Roman troops
in the island adjacent part of the dam; suddenly landed here a division
Egypt, attacked on the dam at Querwall zusammengedraengten Roman soldiers
and sailors from behind and sprinkled the whole mass in wild confusion
into the sea. One part was of the Roman ships added and most drowned.
About 400 soldiers and an even larger number of crew in the fleet were
the victims of that day, the captain himself, the fate of the split
with him, had on his ship and, as the people fell on sword, swim to
another must save. However, so sensitive, the loss was suffered, he was
using the re-gain the lighthouse island, which together with the dam until
the first Bogenoeffnung in Caesar's hands remained abundant,
respectively. Finally came the awaited Entsatz. Mithradates of Pergamum,
a capable man of war from the school of Mithradates Eupator, whose
natural son he claimed to be led to the country from Syria since a
variegated army approached the Ityraeer the Prince of Libanos, the
Bedouins of the Jamblichos, Sampsikeramos' son, the Jews under the
Minister Antipatros, over all the chieftains of the small quotas
and communities of Syria and Cilicia.

From Pelusion, Mithradates the day he arrived to fill was successful, he
suggested to the average terrain of the delta to prevent the Nile before
his division to cross the big road to Memphis, where his troops from
the most in this part Egypt numerous Jews residing multiple landsmannschaftliche
support received. The Egyptians, now the young king at the head Ptolemaeos
what Caesar in the futile hope that by Insurrektion to appease him,
to dismiss those with him had, sent an army on the Nile to Mithradates on
whose shores otherworldly noted. The same was also true, even beyond the
so-called Memphis in Jewish camps, and between Omion Heliopolis, on
the enemy alone Mithradates, practiced in Roman way to maneuver and
store, nonetheless won by lucky battles the other shore in Memphis. The
other Caesar, and he of the arrival of the customer received Entsatzarmee,
led some of its troops on ships at the tip of the lake west of Marea
Alexandreia and marched around and around this down the Nile river
approaching the opposite Mithradates. The association was not that the
enemy they would have tried to prevent.

He then moved into the Delta, where the king had to retreat, threw,
in spite of the deep channel cut in front of their front, the Egyptian
vanguard in the first start and immediately stormed the Egyptian camp
itself, it was located at the foot of a hill between the Nile, from
which only a narrow path is separated and inaccessible swamps. Caesar
had both front and sideways towards the camp on the Nile berennen during
this storm and a third detachment the hill behind the camp unseen until
its own. The victory was complete, the camp was taken and what the
Egyptians are not under the enemy's swords fell, drowned while trying
to escape the Nilflotte. With one of the boats, with people over
the load decreased, disappeared, the young king in the waves of his native
stream.

Directly from the battlefield Caesar moved from the land side, straight
at the head of his cavalry in Egypt from the occupied part of the capital.
In mourning garb, their Goetterbilder in the hands, welcomed him to the
enemies of peace, pleading that with him but, as they call it from the
other side, as he extracted from the victorious return saw with
boundless jubilation.

The fate of the city, the Lord of the world in its plans and dared to
cross a hair's downfall was brought about, was in Caesar's hand, he alone
was too much Regentpark to be sensitive to, and proceeded with the
Alexandrine how the Massalioten.

Caesar, pointing to the battered and devastated the occasion of
its fleet of fire grain magazine, its famous library and other important
public buildings deprived city, exhorted the population to only the
future of the arts seriously befleissigen peace and to heal the
wounds that they themselves beaten, the way he did to the Jews in
Alexandreia angesessenen to grant the same rights, which the Greek city
population enjoyed, and instead of the former, at least in name the
king of Egypt Roman occupation army obeying a formal Roman occupation,
two of the siege and a daselbst later third came from Syria after
legion, under one of his self-proclaimed commander after Alexandreia
purposes.

For this confidence item was deliberately chosen a man whose birth
it is impossible to apply the same abuse, Rufio, a capable soldier, but
one freed son. The regiment Egypt under Roman suzerainty were Cleopatra
and their younger brother Ptolemaeos; the princess Arsinoe was, not
according to the oriental nature of the dynasty as well as devoted to
each Dynastes indifferent Egypt again as a pretext for Insurrektionen
to serve, off to Italy, was Kypros again a part of the Roman province
of Cilicia. --------------------------------------- ^ 8 The loss of
the lighthouse must be Luecke Bell. Alex. 12 failed, since the island
initially yes, in Caesar's violence was (civ. 3112; Bell. Alex. 8). The
dam must be stocks in the violence of the enemy was, as Caesar with the
island only by vessels wrong. ---------------------------- -------------
This Alexandrian American revolt, so small he was and is so little he
inwardly connected with the historical events that are also in the Roman
state is completed, but so far attacked in the same rich sequence that
when he was the man who was all in all, and without the not encouraged
and could not be resolved, in October 706 (48) until March 707 (47)
urged his actual duties are to present Jews and Bedouins against a
Stadtpoebel to fight.

The personal consequences of the Regiment began to make itself felt. It was
the monarchy, but everywhere there was the terrible confusion and the
monarch was not there. Ebenwie the moment Pompeianer were also Caesarianer
without upper management, it ruled everywhere the ability of individual
officers and, above all things random. In Asia Minor was at Caesar's
departure for Egypt no enemy. Meanwhile Caesar was governor daselbst,
the efficiency Gnaeus Domitian Calvinus, command received, the
Koenig Pharnakes wiederabzunehmen what the allies of the same Pompey had
snatched without authority, and because of this, a stubborn and
wanton despot as his father, the evacuation of Armenia persistent small
- refused, so nothing remained but to march against him to leave.

Calvinus had him by the three zurueckgelassenen from pharsalischen POWs
formed legions two to Egypt absenden must, he said the gap through a
hurry from the Romans in Pontus domiciled zusammengeraffte and two kinds
exerzierte after Roman legions of Deiotarus and moved to Little Armenia.
Only the bosporanische in numerous battles with the residents of the Black
Sea tested army proved more efficient than his. In the meeting at
Nicopolis was Calvinus' Pontic banns slap together and ran the gala
them legions of them, only the old Legion of Roemer suggested moderate
loss by. Instead of small to conquer Armenia, Calvinus could not even
prevent Pharnakes in his Pontic "Erbstaaten" and again took hold over
its inhabitants, including the unfortunate Amis, the entire shell of
its appalling Sultanslaunen ausgoss (winter 706/07 48/47). When Caesar
himself in Asia Minor arrived and let him say that the service that he
personally Pharnakes done by Pompey he had granted no assistance, not
be allowed to come to the rich and that damage before any action under the
province of Pontus rooms and the stolen goods it needs to deferral, he
explains, while ready to obey, but knowing how Caesar had good reason,
according to the West to rush, but he made no serious to the evacuation
centers. He did not know that Caesar abtat what he attacked. Without
continued to negotiate, took one of the Caesar Alexandreia Legion
and brought the troops of Calvinus and Deiotarus together and moves
against Pharnakes' camp at Ziela.

As the Bosporaner saw him coming, they passed through the deep mountain
pertly gap, which covered their front, and attacked the hill to the
Romans. Caesar's soldiers were still pounding the camp with a busy and
varied for a moment the ranks, only the kriegsgewohnten veterans gathered
quickly and gave the example of the general attack and perfect Wins
(August 2 707 47). In five days of the campaign was finished - at that
time when every hour was precious, an invaluable Gluecksfall. With the
pursuit of the King of Sinope on heimgegangen was appointed Caesar
of the Pharnakes illegitimate brother, the brave Mithradates of
Pergamum, who as a reward for services rendered in Egypt to Pharnakes'
body the crown bosporanische Koenig received. In addition, the Syrian
and Asia Minor matters peacefully finely its own rich reward allies,
those of Pompey throughout with fines or pointers dismissed. Only the
most powerful among the clients of Pompeius, Deiotarus, was again close
to his traditional area, the tolistobogischen Gau, limited. In his place
was with small-Armenia Koenig Ariobarzanes of Cappadocia mortgaged,
with the Deiotarus usurpierten Vierfuerstentum the Trokmer but the new
king of the Bosporus, which as of the Pontic paternal side, as one of the
mothers gala them came Fuerstengeschlechter. Even in Illyria had while
Caesar was in Egypt, very serious performances that have been given.

The delmatische coast had been a sore spot of the Roman domination
and Caesar with the residents since the battles around Dyrrhachion
in an open feud; inland but are still swarmed by her wars of Thessaly
scattered Pompeianern.

Meanwhile, Quintus had Cornificius from Italy with the legions nachrueckenden
both the natives as the refugees kept at bay and at the same time in
these areas deprive such difficult enough meals for troops. Even as
the efficiency Marcus Octavius, the winner of Curicta, with a Pompeianischen
part of the fleet in those waters appeared to enjoy the sea and on
land the war against Caesar to lead, knew Cornificius, Having regard to
the ships and the port of Iadestiner ( Zara), not just to say, but there
was also at sea against the fleet of the enemy many a happy battle. But
as the new governor of Illyria, the Caesar from exile zurueckberufene
Aulus Gabinius with fuenfzehn cohorts and 3000 riders in winter
706/07 (48/47) on the land in Illyria arrived, changed the system
of Kriegfuehrung. Instead, like his predecessor on the little war to
restrict the undertook kuehne broker immediately, despite the steal season,
with his entire force an expedition into the mountains. But the bad
weather, the difficulty of the board and the valiant resistance of
the rubbing Delmater the army; Gabinius had to retreat, on this
ward from the Delmatern shamefully attacked and beaten, and reached with
weak vestiges of its stately army Muehsam Salome, where he died soon
afterwards. Most Illyrian Kuestenstaedte this resulted in the fleet of
Octavius, Caesar held to as Salome and Epidauros (Ragusa vecchia),
were from the fleet at sea, on land of the barbarians so much
distressed that the surrender and capitulation of Salome enclosed
Heerestruemmer seemed not far off. As did the commander of the depot
brundisischen, the vigorous Publius Vatinius, in the absence of warships
ordinary boats with beaks, and with the hospitals discharged from the
military man and delivered with this improvised fleet of Octavian's
far superior to the island of Tauris (Torcola between Lelina and Curzola)
a meeting in which the bravery of the leaders and soldiers of the ship,
as so often superseded what the ships abging and Caesarianer a shining
victory erfochten.

Marcus Octavius left these waters and went to Africa (Spring 707 47),
which still continued Delmater years with great tenacity on the
defensive, but it was nothing more than a local mountain war. When
Caesar returned from Egypt, had determined his adjutant in Illyria threat
already eliminated. So it was serious in Africa, where the Constitution
Party from the beginning of the Civil War to absolute confusion and
their power had increased continuously. Until the battle Pharsalischen
Koenig had actually run the regiment Juba; Curio he had overcome, and the
force of the army were his volatile Reiter and his countless protect the
governor Varus Pompeianische played beside him such a subaltern role
that he even those soldiers Curios who had shown him, the king had to
deliver and their execution or transfer into the inner Numidien have had
mitansehen. This changed after the battle Pharsalischen. On a flight
to the Parthians thought that with the exception of Pompey himself, not
a renowned man of the beaten party. Neither attempted to join forces with
the lake to say, Marcus Octavius' Kriegfuehrung in the Illyrian waters
was isolated and had no lasting success. The vast majority of the
Republicans as the Pompeianer turned to Africa, which alone is an
honorable and constitutional struggle against the usurper seemed
possible.

They found the wreckage of blown Pharsalos army, the occupying troops
of Dyrrhachion, Kerkyra and the Peloponnese, the remains of the
Illyrian fleet gradually together and it was there the second Oberfeld
Mr. Metellus Scipio, the two sons of Pompey, Gnaeus and Sextus, the
political leader of the Republicans Marcus Cato, the stalwart officers
Labienus, Afranius, Petreius, Octavius, and others. If the forces of
emigration were reduced, he had opposed their fanaticism is perhaps
even increased.

It not only drove away, the prisoners and even the Caesars Parlamenta to
murder, but King Juba, where the bitterness of party man with the
fury of the African halbbarbarischen flowed together, the maxim that,
in each of the sympathies with the enemies suspicious community residents
exterminated and the town needs to be burnt, and also against some
localities, such as the unfortunate Vaga Hadrumetum in this theory,
in fact, virtually by. Yes it is not the capital of the province itself,
the flourishing, of Carthage ebenwie once the numidischen Koeniger Scheele
eye with a long prestigious Utica, King Juba of the same treatment,
and learned that one against, but not with injustice, the accused
Caesar Hinneigung to residents with cautions are merely had only
Cato bold appearance to thank.

Since neither Caesar nor any of its lowest against the governor
Africa undertook, as the coalition had totally time to get there politically
and militarily to reorganize. Above all, it was necessary, but Pompey's
death did Mr. Oberfeld body anew to fill. King Juba was not bad like the
position which he held until the battle Pharsalische in Africa had
even further to say how he nothing more than the client Roemer, but
as an equal ally or patron as occurred, for example, it to remove,
Roman silver money with his name and coat of arms to beat, even the
claim raised in the camp alone to lead the Purple and the Roman
military leaders ansann, the Crimson captain coat off.

Metellus Scipio also urged the supreme command for himself, because
Pompey him more than schwiegersoehnlichen from military
considerations, in Thessaly campaign as an equal basis was
recognized. The same claim raised Varus as - admittedly self -
governor of Africa, since the war in his province should be run. Finally,
the army sought to guide the Propraetor Marcus Cato. Apparently she
is right. Cato was the only man who, for the heavy post the required
commitment, energy and the authority had, if he was not a military, it was
infinitely better, a Nichtmilitaer, which is too modest and its subdivision
Lord understood to act as a officer of untested ability, such as varus,
or even one of proven incompetence, as Metellus Scipio, to appoint Mr.
Oberfeld. However, the decision finally fell on these same Scipio,
and Cato himself was there, which it essentially certain.

It happened not because it is the task or feels unable to cope because
his vanity to the knocking out their bill was more than the answer,
still less because he loved or respected Scipio, with whom he much more
personally, and the enemies were everywhere in his notorious
Untuechtigkeit Schwieger only by his paternity to a certain
significance was reached, but solely because his dogged legal
formalism rather the Republic of right, let perish as they rescued
at irregular manner.

When he Pharsalischen after the battle of Corfu met with Marcus Cicero,
he had offered this, still by his Cilician governorship her with the
General shank was tainted, as the hoeherstehenden officer, as it was right,
the command in Kerkyra to take over and the unfortunate lawyer, who
from his laurels Amanos cursed a thousand times now, by this
willingness almost to despair, but also any reasonably insightful
men brought to the surprise.

The same principles have been ridden, where it arrived a little more;
Cato considered the question of whom Mr. Oberfeld agency fees, as it
was a farm field at Tusculum, and she spoke to the Scipio. This statement
was his own candidature and the varus eliminated. He was, however, and
he alone, with the energy of the claims of King Juba entgegentrat and
let him feel that the Roman nobility to him, pleading not to come as
the Grossfuersten of the Parthians to help the patron to seek assistance,
but mandatory and the subject of assisted demanding. In the current
state of the Roman army in Africa Juba could not fail, something
mildly winding strings, though he admittedly in a weak Scipio still
enforce it, that the salary of his troops of the Roman Treasury
burden and for the case of the victory to him the assignment of the
province Africa was undertaken.

"But what
has all that to do with Rochester?"

"Now, my dear, You don't mean to say you didn't know that the Genesee
Falls were at Rochester? Upon my word, I'm ashamed. Why, we're within ten
minutes' walk of them now."

"Then walk to them at once!" cried Isabel, wholly unabashed, and in fact
unable to see what he had to be ashamed of. "Actually, I believe you
would have allowed me to leave Rochester without telling me the falls
were here, if you hadn't happened to think of Sam Patch."

Saying this, she persuaded herself that a chief object of their journey
had been to visit the scene of Sam Patch's fatal exploit, and she drew
Basil with a nervous swiftness in the direction of the railroad station,
beyond which he said were the falls. Presently, after threading their way
among a multitude of locomotives, with and without trains attached, that
backed and advanced, or stood still, hissing impatiently on every side,
they passed through the station to a broad planking above the river on
the other side, and thence, after encounter of more locomotives, they
found, by dint of much asking, a street winding up the hill-side to the
left, and leading to the German Bierhaus that gives access to the best
view of the cataract.

The Americans have characteristically bordered the river with
manufactures, making every drop work its passage to the brink; while the
Germans have as characteristically made use of the beauty left over, and
have built a Bierhaus where they may regale both soul and sense in the
presence of the cataract. Our travellers might, in another mood and
place, have thought it droll to arrive at that sublime spectacle through
a Bierhaus, but in this enchanted city it seemed to have a peculiar
fitness.

A narrow corridor gave into a wide festival space occupied by many
tables, each of which was surrounded by a group of clamorous Germans of
either sex and every age, with tall beakers of beaded lager before them,
and slim flasks of Rhenish; overhead flamed the gas in globes of
varicolored glass; the walls were painted like those of such haunts in
the fatherland; and the wedding-journeyers were fair to linger on their
way, to dwell upon that scene of honest enjoyment, to inhale the mingling
odors of beer and of pipes, and of the pungent cheeses in which the
children of the fatherland delight. Amidst the inspiriting clash of
plates and glasses, the rattle of knives and forks, and the hoarse rush
of gutturals, they could catch the words Franzosen, Kaiser, Konig, and
Schlacht, and they knew that festive company to be exulting in the first
German triumphs of the war, which were then the day's news; they saw
fists shaken at noses in fierce exchange of joy, arms tossed abroad in
wild congratulation, and health-pouring goblets of beer lifted in air.
Then they stepped into the moonlight again, and heard only the solemn
organ stops of the cataract. Through garden-ground they were led by the
little maid, their guide, to a small pavilion that stood on the edge of
the precipitous shore, and commanded a perfect view of the falls. As they
entered this pavilion, a youth and maiden, clearly lovers, passed out,
and they were left alone with that sublime presence. Something of
definiteness was to be desired in the spectacle, but there was ample
compensation in the mystery with which the broad effulgence and the dense
unluminous shadows of the moonshine invested it. The light touched all
the tops of the rapids, that seemed to writhe sway from the brink of the
cataract, and then desperately breaking and perishing to fall, the white
disembodied ghosts of rapids, down to the bottom of the vast and deep
ravine through which the river rushed away. Now the waters seemed to mass
themselves a hundred feet high in a wall of snowy compactness, now to
disperse into their multitudinous particles and hang like some vaporous
cloud from the cliff. Every moment renewed the vision of beauty in some
rare and fantastic shape; and its loveliness isolated it, in spite of the
great town on the other shore, the station with its bridge and its
trains, the mills that supplied their feeble little needs from the
cataract's strength.

At last Basil pointed out the table-rock in the middle of the fall, from
which Sam Patch had made his fatal leap; but Isabel refused to admit that
tragical figure to the honors of her emotions. "I don't care for him!"
she said fiercely. "Patch! What a name to be linked in our thoughts with
this superb cataract."

Always solid verrannte he is also in the impasse, which he had
entered, instead, solely for what it promised success, the vast distances
against the Romans to bring into play. In Kyzikos had the old Hellenic
agility and efficiency so purely as a few other places and their residents,
even though they are in the unfortunate battle of double Kalchedon to
ship and crew had suffered heavy loss, but made the most determined
resistance. Kyzikos was on an island directly opposite the mainland and
a bridge connected to the same. The besieger usurps both the altitude
train on the mainland, at the bridge ends and the suburbs located
here, as well as on the island, even the famous Dindymenischen higher,
and on the mainland-like on the island, the Greek side were engineers
all their art to the storm to make possible. The breach, which finally
succeeded to make, during the night was again besieged by the closed
and the efforts of the royal army were equally fruitless as the threat
of barbaric Koenigs, the Kyzikener caught outside the walls to kill
them if the residents still longer refused to surrender. The Kyzikener
continued to defend with courage and luck continues and it is not
missing much, they would have during the siege of the king himself
taken prisoner.

Meanwhile Lucullus had one very strong position in the back of the Pontic
army usurps that it is not allowed, the beleaguered city to immediately
help to come, but probably all the enemies on land supply cut off. So
was the tremendous, with the bullish estimated at 300000 heads
Mithradatische army, neither able to beat, even to march, being
stuck firmly between the city and the unbezwinglichen motionless
standing Roman army and for all its needs solely rely on the lake,
the lucky Pontiker for its fleet exclusively dominated.

But the bad season broke inside, a storm destroyed a large part of the
siege buildings, the lack of food and especially to feed horses began to
be AN INTOLERABLE. The beasts of burden and the retinue were covering
the biggest part of the Pontic cavalry weggesandt with the order, at any
price is durchzuschleichen or durchzuschlagen, but the river Rhyndakos
east of Kyzikos Lucullus brought them and cut off the whole bunch
together.

       Another department at Rider
        Metrophanes and Lucius had
        Fannius after long wanderings in
        western Asia Minor back in the camp before Kyzikos go back.

        Hunger and disease among
        the Pontic acknowledged terribly in
        droves. As the spring drew (681 73),
        doubled the besieged their efforts and took on the Dindymon ranging
jumps, it was the king nothing left, when lifting the siege and
with the help of the fleet to save what was to save.

        He went with the fleet after
        the Hellespont, but sometimes
        suffered from the departure, partly
        by storms on the considerable loss.

        Eben then broke the Landheer under
        Hermaeos and Marius, in order
        to Lampsakos and its walls are
        protected einzuschiffen.

Your luggage left it in the lurch, and the sick and wounded by the
fierce Kyzikenern all have been settled.

Traveling together with Lucullus in Uebergang over the rivers Aesepos
and Granikos very considerable loss, but they reached their goal,
the Pontic ships hijacked the remains of the great army and the
residents themselves lampsakenische from the areas of Roemer.

Lucullus' right and follow carefully Kriegfuehrung had not just the
errors of his colleagues back remedied, but also without a major battle
to deliver the core of the hostile army - supposedly 200 000
soldiers - aufgerieben.

Had he still had the fleet in the harbor of Kalchedon burned, so he would
the whole enemy army destroyed; Zerstoerungswerk it remained unfinished,
and he even had to suffer it, despite the disaster of the Pontic Kyzikos
fleet in the Propontis is situated, and Byzantion Perinthos on the
European coast from their blocked Priapos in Asian robbed, the royal
headquarters after bithynischen port Nikomedeia have promised.

Yes a choice of fifty Sailing Squadron, the exquisite 10,000 people,
including Marcus Marius and the core of the Roman emigrants wore, even
went out into the Aegean Sea, it was the speech that it was intended, to
land in Italy, where over the new civil war to ignite. Meanwhile, the
ships began to Lucullus after the accident at Kalchedon of the Asian
community had called on to set a squadron and ran out to the Aegean Sea
into the enemy kept withdrawn. Lucullus himself, as Flottenfuehrer
tested, took over the command. Before Achaeerhafen in the waters between
the troischen coast and the island of Tenedos, thirteen were hostile to
the trip to Lemnos diverge under Fuenfruderer Isidoros fall over and
sunk. In the case of small island Neae between Lemnos and Skyros then,
at which point the little visited Pontic fleet of 32 sailing on the
beach was withdrawn, she was Lucullus, grabbed both the vessels and
scattered on the island of Manning and takes possession of the whole
squadron . Marcus Marius found here and the efficiency of the Roman
emigrated either in battle or afterwards through the Henkerbeil death. The
entire fleet of the Aegean enemies of Lucullus was destroyed. The war in
Bithynien had been through after the broadcasts from Italy increased
Landheer in Asia and a squadron pulled together and the Cotta Luculls
Voconius legates, and Gaius Valerius Triarius Barba continued.

Barba took inland Prusias on Mount Olympus and Nikaea, Triarius on
the coast Apameia (otherwise Myrleia) and Prusias at sea (or Chios).
It was united into a common enterprise against Mithradates himself in
Nikomedeia, however, is the king, only without the struggle to try and
escaped to his ships and went home, and even that he succeeded only
because of the blockage of the port of Nikomedeia responsible Roman
Flottenfuehrer Voconius arrived too late. On the ward while the important
Herakleia to the king betrayed by him and occupied, but a storm sank
in these waters over sixty of his ships and dispersed to the other, almost
alone, the king after Sinope. The offensive Mithradats ends with a
complete and not, at least for the top managers, notable defeat of the
Pontic land and sea power.

Lucullus was now before the attack itself. Triarius took over the
command over the fleet with the order, especially the Hellespont to block
and from Crete and Spain return Pontic ships keep up, the siege of
Cotta Herakleia; the difficult catering business was the loyal and active
Galaterfuersten and the Kingdom of Cappadocia Ariobarzanes transferred
; Lucullus himself moved in the autumn of 681 (73) into the blessed
and have long been of no enemies enter Pontic landscape. Mithradates,
now committed to the strictest defensive, most without a battle to be
delivered back after Amisos of Sinope, by Amisos after Kabeira (later
Neo-Caesarea, now Niksar) on Lykos, a tributary of the iris, he did, the
enemy always deeper inland and to follow him the injections and connections
to make. Quickly followed Lucullus; Sinope remained lie sideways, and
the old frontier of the Roman power area, the Halys, was exceeded, the
great cities Amisos, Eupatoria (at the iris), Themiskyra (at Thermodon)
surrounded, until at last the winter marches, but not the including the
cities made an end. The soldiers Luculls murmured about the unstoppable
invasion, which they do not allow the fruits of their efforts to
harvest, and about the extensive and arduous season of rob blockades. But
it was not Lucullus' nature, like to listen to complaints, in the spring
682 (72) was immediately under Kabeira against abandonment before
Amisos two legions under Lucius Murena.

The king had during the winter and new attempts made, the great king of
Armenia to join the struggle to determine they were in vain as the
former or led only to empty promises. Even less bezeigten like the
Parthians, in the lost cause to get involved. However, had, especially
through advertisements in Skythenland, again a considerable army under
Diophantos and Taxiles at Kabeira together.

The Roman army, the only three remaining counts and the legions of
cavalry after the Pontikern was decided, was forced to Blach box
to avoid, and came after Kabeira addition to challenging trails,
not without complaints and losses.

In this town the two armies camped a long time against each other.
Question was mainly to supply, on both sides just was Mithradates thus
formed from the core of his cavalry and a division of exquisite foot
soldiers under Diophantos and Taxiles a flying corps, which was intended
to distinguish between the Lykos and Halys to graze and from Roman
Cappadocia coming absorb food shipments. Only the sub-commander
Lucullus, Marcus Fabius Hadrianus, such a train escorts, suggested not
only the crowd in his auflauernde congestion where it is thought
to be over, completely over the head, but after he reinforcement
from the camp who had received the Army of Diophantos and Taxiles
itself, so that the same is completely dissolved.

It was for the king an irreplaceable loss that his cavalry, to which he
alone trusted him based here had gone, he and the first from the battlefield
after Kabeira comes refugees - significant enough, the generals themselves
beaten - the Hiobspost, even earlier than Lucullus the news of the
victory, had received, he decided to further immediate withdrawal.

But the broader initiative of King spread with lightning fast in
its vicinity, and, like the soldiers, the confidant of King hastily
pack saw, they were also taken by panic fright.

Nobody wanted to start with the last and ran Elegant and Low confused as
done contaminated wild, no authority, not even the king, was still observed,
and the king himself fortgerissen turmoil in the wild.

The confusion caused by Lucullus attacked, and almost without resistance
to let the Pontic hordes are niedermetzeln. Had the man breeding legions
to hold and to moderate their Beutegier managed, it would be a man
they barely escaped, and no doubt the King himself had been caught. Not
with Mithradates escaped with a few companions in the mountains
after Komana (near Tokat and source of the iris), from where it can
also be a Roman crowd at Marcus Pompeius wiederaufscheuchte and
pursued him until he, by no more than 2000 riders accompanied in
Talaura Little Armenia at the border of his empire exceeded.

In the empires of the great King he found a Zufluchtsstaette,
but no longer (end of 682 72). Tigran had his volatile father while Royal
erzeigen honor, but he does not even invited him to his court, but held
him in the remote border area, where he was, in a kind of prison Quite
decent Pontos and Armenia small flooded the Roman troops and Trapezus up
to the plate subjected to land without resistance to the winner. Also,
the commander of the royal Schatzhaeuser arose after a shorter or
longer delay, and delivered her from Kassenvorraete. The women of the royal
harem, the royal sisters, his numerous wives and Kebse the king, as
it is not possible to escape was through one of his Verschnitt Pharnakeia
(Kerasunt) all killed. Tenacious resistance provided only the cities.
While the few inland, Kabeira, Amaseia, Eupatoria, were soon in the hands
of the Romans, but the bigger Seestaedte, Amisos and Sinope in Pontus,
Amastris in Paphlagonien, Tios and the Pontic Herakleia in Bithynien,
fought back as desperate, sometimes enthusiastically by the Annexes to
the Koenig and shielded him from the free Greek city constitution,
and partly by terrorizing throngs of Koenig summoned pirates.

Sinope Herakleia and even let the ships against Roemer expire, and the
squadron Sinope usurps a Roman flotilla, the Taurischen peninsula for
Lucullus' army brought cereal.

Herakleia underwent biennial after siege after the Roman fleet of the
city in his dealings with the Greek cities on the peninsula Taurischen
and had cut off in the ranks of the crew had been treachery. As
to the extreme Amisos was housed, the crew lit the city on and ascended
under the protection of their ships flames. In Sinope, where the
bold Piratenkapitaen Seleukos and the Royal blended Bakchides led
the defense, robbed the crew, the houses before they abzog, and put
the ships, they could not take away, on fire, it should be here,
although the largest part of the Defenders had to embark, but still
8000 Corsairs of Lucullus were killed.

Two full years after the Battle of Kabeira and darueber (682-684
72 - 70) tested this Staedtebelagerungen which Lucullus large part
by his sub-commanders, while he himself, the ratio of the province
of Asia ordered that a thorough reform erheischten and received.

How strange also that historically stubborn resistance of the Pontic
Kaufstaedte victorious against the Romans, it was little but first
emerged, the case of King Mithradates was a matter of no less lost. The
great king had apparently at least for now absolutely no intention of
him in his kingdom back. The Roman exile in Asia had destroyed the fleet
of the Aegean their best taking important; from the remaining few had
not, like the activity Magius Lucius and Lucius Fannius to make their
peace with Lucullus, and with the death of Sertorius, in the year
of the Battle of Kabeira died, disappeared the last hope of emigration.
The Mithradats own power was completely shattered, and one after the
other broke its remaining props together: his from Crete and Spain
homecoming Squadron, seventy sail strong, were Triarius in the island of
Tenedos attacked and destroyed, also the governor of Bosporanischen Empire,
of King's own son Machar, fell away from him and finished as an independent
prince of Taurischen Khersones own hands with the Roman peace and friendship
(684 70). The king himself sat not allzuruehmlicher resistance in a
remote Armenian mountain castle, a refugee from his rich and virtually a
prisoner of his son. Liked the Korsarenscharen still in Crete and say
what Amisos and Sinope escape was difficult to access to the East Coast
of the Black Sea to the Sanigen and lázeň saved: Lucullus' skillful
Kriegfuehrung its clarity and moderation, which is not spurned, the fair
complaints Provincial of the remedy and the repentant emigrants as
officers in his army to be had with moderate victims of Asia Minor
from the enemies and free the Pontic kingdom destroyed, so that the
same from a Roman client state into a Roman province could be. A
committee of the Senate was expected to in communion with the Lord
Oberfeld the new provincial organization noted. But nor were the
relationships with Armenia is not finely. The fact that a declaration
of war against Tigran Roemer to be justified, indeed required was
shown earlier. Lucullus, the ratio of greater proximity and with a higher
sense than the senator looked College in Rome, recognized the need, Armenia
rejected on the Tigris and the lost dominion of Rome over the Mediterranean
Sea restore. He showed in the management of the Asian Affairs as no
unworthy successor to his teacher and friend Sulla; Philhellene Roemer how
few of his contemporaries, he was not insensitive to the obligation to
Rome with the inheritance of Alexander had taken over: Shield and Sword
of the Greeks in the East to be. Personal motives, the desire, even
beyond the Euphrates to reap laurels, the sensitivity that the
great king in a letter to the Emperor his title is omitted, may
indeed have influenced Lucullus, alone it is unjust, petty and
selfish motives for acts likely to the mandatory declaration whose
fully suffice.

However, from the timid, careless, poorly informed and, above all things
of eternal Roman beleaguered government-financed college did never
expect that, while not to be forced to take the initiative on such a
weitschichtigen and costly expedition will take. Around the year 682
(72) were the legitimate representatives of the Seleukidendynastie,
Antiochos, called the Asian, and his brother, prompted by the
favorable turn of the Pontic war, went to Rome, a Roman intervention
in Syria and also the recognition of their Erbansprueche on Egypt
injunction.

If the latter requirement could not be granted, but so did the moment
as the reason does not find favorable to a long war against Tigran needed
to start. With the Senate had the prince well as the legitimate kings
of Syria recognized, but did not decide able to dispose of armed intervention.
If the opportunity is used against Armenia and Ernst are made as Lucullus
had the war without the actual order of the Senate on his own hands and
start their own risk, but he saw himself ebenwie Sulla in the need, to
what he offenbarsten in the interest of the existing government
did not with her, but her work despite the setting. he was relieved
by the decision which has long been unclear between war and peace
fluctuating ratio of Rome to Armenia, which Unauthorized his procedure
and it somewhat covered in formal Kriegsgruenden not let missing.

The kappadokischen and Syrian states were occasions enough, and it
also had been in pursuit of the Pontic King Roman troops the area of the
Big King hurt. Since, however, Lucullus' leadership on behalf of the
war against Mithradates was here and he wishes to see, so he moved it
from one of his officers, Appius Claudius, to the great king after
Antioch to send to Mithradates' extradition to ask what is admittedly
the had to lead wars. The decision was serious, especially when the nature
of the Roman army. It was inevitable during the campaign in Armenia the
extended Pontic heavily occupied territory to hold, otherwise the army
in Armenia following the link with the homeland has been lost and also an
incursion into its former Mithradats Reich was easy to foresee. Apparently,
the army, headed by Lucullus Mithradatischen the war was terminated by
passing for 30,000 man doubled this task is not enough. Among habitual
ratio would be the commander of his government after the broadcast of a
second Army requested and received; Lucullus alone since the
war on the government wanted to take the head and had somehow, he is
forced to renounce to this and whether he even Soeldner caught Thracian
king of the Pontic troops einreihte, yet with no more than two legions,
not exceeding 15000 or man war on the Euphrates to wear. Already this
was a concern, however, the insignificance of the number liked by the
bravery of the well tried and tested veterans from existing Army
reasonably be replaced. Far worse was the mood of the soldiers on the
Lucullus in his hochadligen nature far too little consideration was.
Lucullus was a general and efficient - by aristocratic scale - an honest
and benevolent man, but nothing less than popular with his soldiers.
He was unpopular as determined supporters of the oligarchy, unpopular,
because he is in Asia Minor, the frightful Wucherei the strongly
Roman capitalists had controlled, unpopular because of the work and
strain, which was paid to the soldiers zumutete, unpopular because he of
his soldiers demanded strict breeding male and looting of the Greek
cities by its people possible, to prevent, but also for himself some
cars and some camel with the treasures of the East had loaded, unpopular
because of his fine, make Hellenisation, not comradely and, wherever
possible, be convenient Wohlleben hinneigenden that way.

Not a trace of the spell was in him, between the commander and the
soldiers a personal tape loops. This came at last, that a large part owes
its soldiers had every reason to find out about the excessive prolongation
of their service to complain.
Far under the bridge the
river smoothly swam, the undercurrents forever unfolding themselves upon
the surface with a vast rose-like evolution, edged all round with faint
lines of white, where the air that filled the water freed itself in foam.
What had been clear green on the face of the cataract was here more like
rich verd-antique, and had a look of firmness almost like that of the
stone itself. So it showed beneath the bridge, and down the river till
the curving shores hid it. These, springing abruptly prom the water's
brink, and shagged with pine and cedar, displayed the tender verdure of
grass and bushes intermingled with the dark evergreens that comb from
ledge to ledge, till they point their speary tops above the crest of
bluffs. In front, where tumbled rocks and expanses of caked clay varied
the gloomier and gayer green, sprung those spectral mists; and through
them loomed out, in its manifold majesty, Niagara, with the seemingly
immovable white Gothic screen of the American Fall, and the green massive
curve of the Horseshoe, solid and simple and calm as an Egyptian wall;
while behind this, with their white and black expanses broken by dark
foliaged little isles, the steep Canadian rapids billowed down between
their heavily wooded shores.

The wedding-journeyers hung, they knew not how long, in rapture on the
sight; and then, looking back from the shore to the spot where they had
stood, they felt relieved that unreality should possess itself of all,
and that the bridge should swing there in mid-air like a filmy web,
scarce more passable than the rainbow that flings its arch above the
mists.

On the portico of the hotel they found half a score of gentlemen smoking,
and creating together that collective silence which passes for sociality
on our continent. Some carriages stood before the door, and within,
around the base of a pillar, sat a circle of idle call-boys. There were a
few trunks heaped together in one place, with a porter standing guard
over them; a solitary guest was buying a cigar at the newspaper stand in
one corner; another friendless creature was writing a letter in the
reading-room; the clerk, in a seersucker coat and a lavish shirt-bosom,
tried to give the whole an effect of watering-place gayety and bustle, as
he provided a newly arrived guest with a room.

Our pair took in these traits of solitude and repose with indifference.
If the hotel had been thronged with brilliant company, they would have
been no more and no less pleased; and when, after supper, they came into
the grand parlor, and found nothing there but a marble-topped centre.
table, with a silver-plated ice-pitcher and a small company of goblets,
they sat down perfectly content in a secluded window-seat. They were not
seen by the three people who entered soon after, and halted in the centre
of the room.

"Why, Kitty!" said one of the two ladies who must; be in any
travelling-party of three, "this is more inappropriate to your gorgeous
array than the supper-room, even."

She who was called Kitty was armed, as for social conquest, in some kind
of airy evening-dress, and was looking round with bewilderment upon that
forlorn waste of carpeting and upholstery. She owned, with a smile, that
she had not seen so much of the world yet as she had been promised; but
she liked Niagara very much, and perhaps they should find the world at
breakfast.

"No," said the other lady, who was as unquiet as Kitty was calm, and who
seemed resolved to make the most of the worst, "it isn't probable that
the hotel will fill up overnight; and I feel personally responsible for
this state of things. Who would ever have supposed that Niagara would be
so empty? I thought the place was thronged the whole summer long. How do
you account for it, Richard?"

The gentleman looked fatigued, as from a long-continued discussion
elsewhere of the matter in hand, and he said that he had not been trying
to account for it.

"Then you don't care for Kitty's pleasure at all, and you don't want her
to enjoy herself. Why don't you take some interest in the matter?"

"Why, if I accounted for the emptiness of Niagara in the most
satisfactory way, it wouldn't add a soul to the floating population.
Under the circumstances I prefer to leave it unexplained."

"Do you think it's because it's such a hot summer? Do you suppose it's
not exactly the season? Didn't you expect there'd be more people? Perhaps
Niagara isn't as fashionable as it used to be."

"It looks something like that."

"Well, what under the sun do you think is the reason?"

"I don't know."

"Perhaps," interposed Kitty, placidly, "most of the visitors go to the
other hotel, now."

"It 's altogether likely," said the other lady, eagerly. "There are just
such caprices."

"Well," said Richard, "I wanted you to go there."

"But you said that you always heard this was the a most fashionable."

"I know it. I didn't want to come here for that reason. But fortune
favors the brave."

"Well, it's too bad! Here we've asked Kitty to come to Niagara with us,
just to give her a little peep into the world, and you've brought us to a
hotel where we're--"

"Monarchs of all we survey," suggested Kitty.

"Yes, and start at the sound of our own," added the other lady,
helplessly.

"Come now, Fanny," said the gentleman, who was but too clearly the
husband of the last speaker. "You know you insisted, against all I could
say or do, upon coming to this house; I implored you to go to the other,
and now you blame me for bringing you here."

"So I do. If you'd let me have my own way without opposition about coming
here, I dare my I should have gone to the other place. But never mind.
Kitty knows whom to blame, I hope. She 's your cousin."

Kitty was sitting with her hands quiescently folded in her lap. She now
rose and said that she did not know anything about the other hotel, and
perhaps it was just as empty as this.

"It can't be. There can't be two hotels so empty," said Fanny. "It don't
stand to reason."

"If you wish Kitty to see the world so much," said the gentleman, "why
don't you take her on to Quebec, with us?"

Kitty had left her seat beside Fanny, and was moving with a listless
content about the parlor.

"I wonder you ask, Richard, when you know she's only come for the night,
and has nothing with her but a few cuffs and collars! I certainly never
heard of anything so absurd before!"

The absurdity of the idea then seemed to cast its charm upon her, for,
after a silence, "I could lend her some things," she said musingly. "But
don't speak of it to-night, please. It's too ridiculous. Kitty!" The
following morning broke Pontiker in the normal way and the enemy still
behind supposing, beat them after day walk past their camp just
in the valley, whose height ring the Romans had occupied.

Suddenly yell in the silence of the night rings in a circle around
them to the dreaded cry of the legions and rained from all sides,
the bullets in the Asian Heerhaufen in which soldiers and retinue,
wagons, horses, camels are pushed and thrown into the dense clusters
despite the no floor fehlging darkness.

When the Romans had to verschossen, she stormed down from
the heights to which the receipts of the now risen moon became visible
and most vulnerable given their low crowds and what not from the
iron of the enemy fell, was in the terrible crush under the hooves
and wheels crushed.

It was the last battlefield on which the aged king of the Romans has argued.
With three companions, two of his riders and a Kebse which Maennertracht
to follow him, and bravely fighting alongside him was accustomed, he
entrann from there to the festivities Sinoria, where a portion of
its faithful to him took place.

He shared his treasures stored here, 6000 talents of gold (11 million
crowns), among them, and they versah with poison and rushed him
to the remaining pile up the Euphrates, with its allies, the great
king of Armenia, to unite.

Again, this hope was vain; the Buendnis, Mithradates relying on their way
to Armenia of action, there was already no more. During the just
told Kaempfe between Mithradates and Pompey was the Partherkoenig,
the insistence of the Romans, and especially that of the Armenian
princes landfluechtigen yielding, with gewaffneter hand in the land
of Tigran the same haggard, and had forced themselves into the
inaccessible mountain retreat.

The invading army even began the siege of the capital Artaxata; alone in
the same length moved away Koenig Phraates with the greatest part
of his troops, whereupon Tigran the backwardness parthische Corps
and guided by his son Armenian emigrants overwhelmed and in the
whole range restored his rule.

Not, however, was under these circumstances the reluctant king, with the
winning anew Romans to beat, at least for the Mithradates aufzuopfern,
whom he married less than ever since he admitted to the message was that
his rebellious son, intends to become the grandfather to go.

So he made with the Romans Negotiations about peace in a special, but
he waited for the conclusion of the Treaty, to the Alliance, which
tied him to Mithradates, tearing.

At the Armenian limit, had to hear this, that the great king Tigran
a price of 100 talents (150000 thalers) on his head, his envoy
arrested and extradited to the Romans did.

Koenig Mithradates saw his kingdom in the hands of the enemy, his allies
in the process with the same to compare and it was not possible to continue
the war, he had to count themselves lucky if he managed to adapt to the
east and the Nordgestade Black Sea to save, perhaps his breakaway and
with the Romans, in conjunction son Machar took back from the rich
to oust Bosporanischen and Maeotis the new draft for a new ground
to be found.

So he northward. When the king to flee the old boundary of Asia Minor, the
Phasis, exceeded had temporarily put his Pompey have one, but
rather in the headwaters of the Euphrates return, he turned sideways
in the territory of the Araxes to Tigran with an end to .

Almost without resistance, he can be found in the area of Artaxata (near
Yerevan), and proposed three miles from the German city of his camp.
Daselbst was the son of the great King to him, after the overthrow of
his father in the Armenian diadem from the hands of the Romans hoped to
receive and therefore the conclusion of the contract between his
father and the Romans in any way try to prevent was.

The great king was only the more determined to pursue the peace at any price
to purchase. On horseback and without a purple robe, but adorned with
the royal forehead bandage and the royal turban, he appeared at
the gate of the Roman camp and sought-after, before the Roman
commander to run. After he demanded by the Liktoren how the Roman camp
regulations are erheischte his steed and his sword had made, after
he threw Barbarenart to the proconsul to feet and made the sign of the
unconditional subjugation Diadem and Tiara in his hands. Pompey,
delighted about the easy victory that lifted the humiliated King of
Kings on it was decorated with the insignia of his dignity and
dictated the peace. Except for a payment of 9 million crowns (6000
talents) to the war chest and a gift to the soldiers, of which at each
50 denarii (15 thalers) came, took all the king's conquests again,
not just the Phoenician, Syrian, Cilician, kappadokischen possessions,
but also on the right bank of the Euphrates and Soph Korduene, he
was again limited to the actual and Armenia with his Grosskoenigtum
by itself, it was gone.

In a single campaign Pompey had the two most powerful king of Pontus and
Armenia completely subject. At the beginning of the year 688 (66) was
not a Roman soldier across the border of the Roman possessions on
the same mistaken conclusions Koenig Mithradates landfluechtig and no army
in the gorges of the Caucasus and sat on the king Tigran Armenian throne
no more than king of kings, but as a Roman Lehnfuerst. The entire area
west Asia Minor by the Romans Euphrates obeyed strictly, the victorious
army began its winter quarters east of this stream on Armenian soil in
the landscape from the top down to the Euphrates from what was first
soaked Italic their steeds. But the new area, the Roemer entered here,
gave them new Kaempfe. Were unwilling to brave Voelkerschaften the middle
and the far eastern Caucasus occidental stored on their territory. We
lived there in the fertile and water-rich plateau of present-day Georgia,
the Iberians, a brave, well, cultivation of the nation, whose Geschlechtergaue
among their older your country ordered by field community, without
any special property of the individual farmers. The army and people
were one, at the head of the people were some of Mr sexes, it is always
the oldest in the Iberian nation as a whole Koenig, the next most
judges and military leaders as the board of directors, some special
priests families, which mainly was for the customer of other peoples with
closed contracts to preserve and about their adherence to watch. The
mass of unfree people were seen as serfs of the king. On a far lower
level of culture, their eastern neighbors, the Albanians, or Alan, the
spa at the bottom to the Caspian seas sat down.

Predominantly a folk shepherds, grazing them on foot or on horseback,
their numerous herds on the lush lawns of the present Shirvan the few
arable fields were still with the old wooden plow without iron Scharnstein
ordered. Muenzen was unknown, and over a hundred was not counted. Each
of their tribes, whose twenty-six had its own chief, and said his
particular dialect. To figure the Iberians far superior to them, the
Albanians of bravery is not with the same measure. The Fechtart both
nations was also throughout the same: they fought mainly with light
arrows and throw skewer, which they frequently referred Indianerart
forest hiding behind Baumstaemmen out or down from the treetops,
posted on the enemy, the Albanians were also numerous, partly after
medisch-Armenian style with heavy armored Kuerassen and rail riders.

Both nations were on their fields and Trift in total since time immemorial
preserved independence. The Caucasus seems like the nature itself between
Europe and Asia as a dam against the Voelkerfluten erect to have had him
once in the arms of Alexander Kyros as their border, now sent the brave
crew of the vaginal wall to them against the Romans to defend. considerably
by the customer, that the Roman Mr. Oberfeld next spring to the mountains
beyond and the Pontic Kingdom beyond the Caucasus intend to pursue - the
Mithradates, heard it, overwinters in Dioskurias (Iskuria between
Suchum Kale and Anaklia) on the Black Sea -, first exceeded the
Albanians under the Fuersten Oroizes still in Mittwinter 688/89 (66/65)
the Cure and raised on the food because in three larger corps under
Quintus Metellus Celer, Lucius Flaccus and Pompey the army put itself
apart. But Celer, the main attack came, and stood bravely gave
Pompey pursued even after he sent him against the pile discarded the
points at all beaten up to the barbarians cure. The king of the Iberians,
Artokes, stayed calm and promised peace and friendship; Pompey alone,
which is notified that he secretly ready for the Romans in their march
in the passports of the Caucasus to fall over, moved in spring 689
(65) before the pursuit of Mithradates resumption, before the two
barely a half miles apart German fortresses Harmozika (Horumziche
or Armazi) and Seusamora (Tsumar), which are little above the
present-day Tbilisi, the two river valleys of the Kur River and its
tributaries Aragua and thus of the single Armenia after Iberia
leading passes dominate.

Artokes, which he rather versah, surprised by the enemies, burned
quickly and the Kurbruecke major in acting at the inner back country.
Pompey occupied the forts and followed the Iberians on the other
side of the course, making it to immediate subjection to determine hoped.
Artokes important but further and further into the inner country back,
and when he finally at the river Peloros stopped, it was not to
be revealed, but to be beaten.

With the impact of the legions were but the Iberian protect any moment, and
since Artokes also by the Romans Peioros exceeded saw, he is finally
the conditions that the winner was, and sent his children as hostages.
Pompey marched now, his earlier plans designed pursuant to the Sarapanapass
from the area of the spa in the Phasis and from then on down river
to the Black Sea, where the coast kolchischen the fleet under his
Servilius already awaited.

But it was an unsafe idea and almost a goal-less education, the sake of
the army and fleet to the beach maerchenreichen kolchischen led.
The train traveled just laboriously through unknown and often hostile
nations was nothing compared to the one who stood before, and if
it really was, from the Phasismuendung from the army after the
Crimea to lead by bellicose and poor Barbarenstaemme, and inhospitable
to uncharted waters, along a coast, where the individual points
perpendicular to the mountain lake and hinabfallen worse but it
would have been necessary, the vessels to climb if it was possible
to complete this train, which was perhaps more difficult than those
of Alexander and Hannibal Heerfahrten -- what was in the best case
so made, that any effort and the dangers represented?

Admittedly, the war was not geendigt as long as the old king still alive
was, but who guarantees that it really was, the royal game of catch to
whom this unprecedented hunting should be employed? Was it not better,
even at the risk that Mithradates again the torch of war in Asia Minor
sling, from a prosecution abzustehen, so little return, and promised so
many dangers? Well Mr Field urged the numerous voices in the army, still
more numerous in the capital, the prosecution incessantly and continue
at any price, but there were some voices tolldreister hotheads, some
of those perfidious friends, the Emperor allzumaechtigen happy at any
cost from the capital and away him in the east is indefinite companies
involved had said. Pompey was too experienced and cautious officer, in the
stubborn adherence to such a foolish expedition his fame and his army
on the game set, an uprising of the Albanians in the back of the
army gave the pretext her to the further prosecution of the king
to give up and return the order.

                 The fleet received the order in which to cross the Black Sea, the
north Asia Minor against any hostile incursion to cover the rear
sight, but strictly business Bosporus to block under penalty of
life imprisonment for each purchase of driver who would break the
blockade.

                  The
land forces led Pompey not without major complaints by the
kolchische and Armenian area in the lower course of treatment
and continued to flow over, into the Albanian level. Several
days had the Roman army in the blistering heat of this arid land
Blach march, without having to meet the enemy, and only on the
left bank of Abas (probably otherwise Alazonios,
now called River Alasan) presented under the leadership of the
Koses, brother of King Oroizes , the armed forces of the
Albanians against the Romans and it will be with the inclusion
of the Transcaucasian steppe dwellers inflow 60,000 men arrived
on foot and 12,000 horsemen have counted.

                  
However, they hardly would have dared to fight if they would
have not meant, just with the Roman cavalry fight to be,
but the riders were just preceded and how they withdrew, were
hidden behind the Roman infantry masses. After a short
battle, the army of barbarians scattered into the woods, the
switch to Pompey and anzuzuenden commanded. The Albanians bequemten
thereto, to make peace and the peoples of the more powerful
examples below, all concluded between the Cure and the
Caspian Sea sedentary tribes with the Roman commander
contract. The Albanians, Iberians and above all on the south
and the Caucasus Voelkerschaften residents were therefore at least
for the moment in a relationship of dependence on Rome.
If, on the other hand, the peoples between the Phasis and
Maeotis, Kolcher, Soane, Heniocher, Zyger, Achaeer, even the
distant Bastarner the long list of nations subject to
Pompey ceased, so it seems you took it with the notion of
subjection very little exactly. The Caucasus proved
itself once again in its historical significance, such as
the Persian and the Greek was also the Roman conquest
to him their border. So stayed because Koenig
Mithradates himself and leave the doom. What used to
be his ancestor, the founder of the Pontic state, its future Realm
first entered had fled before the bunnies of Antigonos and only
accompanied by six riders, so now the grandchildren had the boundaries
of his empire and once again exceed his and his fathers conquests
with the back to watch.

                  But
the cube of the Verhaengnisses had no more often
and capricious, the highest profits and the greatest
losses zugeworfen as the old Sultan of Sinope, and rapid
and unpredictable change the fortunes in the east. Mithradates
now well-liked on the evening of his life each new case with
Exchange to accept the idea that he only has a new swing and
preparing the only constant in the eternal destiny would
change. Was it the Roman domination of the Orientals
in the deepest essence of their being unbearable and
Mithradates himself, for good or evil, right Fuerst of the East,
in the looseness of the regiment, as the Roman Senate is exercised
over the provinces, and in the fermenting and civil wars to Hader
maturing of the political parties in Rome, Mithradates could, if
it was successful, its time to wait, probably not even the third
time to restore his rule.

                  So
just because he hoped and planned, as long as life in him, he
remained dangerous for the Romans, as long as he lived, as
landfluechtiger equally as old as he and his hundreds of
thousands were left to Greece and Macedonia to the Romans snatch. The
restless old man arrived in the year 689 (85) of Dioskurias
complaints under unspeakable partly on land and partly on the
lake in the kingdom of Pantikapaeon, crashed here by its
reputation and its strong entourage son Machar's breakaway
from the throne and forced him to himself to the death.

There was a
wild fluttering of their nerves, a rapture with an under-consciousness of
pain, the exaltation of peril and escape, when they came to the three
little isles that extend from Goat Island, one beyond another far out
into the furious channel. Three pretty suspension-bridges connect them
now with the larger island, and under each of these flounders a huge
rapid, and hurls itself away to mingle with the ruin of the fall. The
Three Sisters are mere fragments of wilderness, clumps of vine-tangled
woods, planted upon masses of rock; but they are part of the fascination
of Niagara which no one resists; nor could Isabel have been persuaded
from exploring them. It wants no courage to do this, but merely
submission to the local sorcery, and the adventurer has no other reward
than the consciousness of having been where but a few years before no
human being had perhaps set foot. She grossed from bridge to bridge with
a quaking heart, and at last stood upon the outermost isle, whence,
through the screen of vines and boughs, she gave fearful glances at the
heaving and tossing flood beyond, from every wave of which at every
instant she rescued herself with a desperate struggle. The exertion told
heavily upon her strength unawares, and she suddenly made Basil another
revelation of character. Without the slightest warning she sank down at
the root of a tree, and said, with serious composure, that she could
never go back on those bridges; they were not safe. He stared at her
cowering form in blank amaze, and put his hands in his pockets. Then it
occurred to his dull masculine sense that it must be a joke; and he said,
"Well, I'll have you taken off in a boat."

"O do, Basil, do, have me taken off in a boat!" implored Isabel. "You see
yourself the Midges are not safe. Do get a boat."

"Or a balloon," he suggested, humoring the pleasantry.

Isabel burst into tears; and now he went on his knees at her side, and
took her hands in his. "Isabel! Isabel! Are you crazy?" he cried, as if
he meant to go mad himself. She moaned and shuddered in reply; he said,
to mend matters, that it was a jest, about the boat; and he was driven to
despair when Isabel repeated, "I never can go back by the bridges,
never."

"But what do you propose to do?"

"I don't know, I don't know!"

He would try sarcasm. "Do you intend to set up a hermitage here, and have
your meals sent out from the hotel? It's a charming spot, and visited
pretty constantly; but it's small, even for a hermitage."

Isabel moaned again with her hands still on her eyes, and wondered that
he was not ashamed to make fun of her.

He would try kindness. "Perhaps, darling, you'll let me carry you
ashore."

"No, that will bring double the weight on the bridge at once."

"Couldn't you shut your eyes, and let me lead you?"

"Why, it isn't the sight of the rapids," she said, looking up fiercely.
"The bridges are not safe. I'm not a child, Basil. O, what shall we do?"

"I don't know," said Basil, gloomily. "It's an exigency for which I
wasn't prepared." Then he silently gave himself to the Evil One, for
having probably overwrought Isabel's nerves by repeating that poem about
Avery, and by the ensuing talk about Niagara, which she had seemed to
enjoy so much. He asked her if that was it; and she answered, "O no, it's
nothing but the bridges." He proved to her that the bridges, upon all
known principles, were perfectly safe, and that they could not give way.
She shook her head, but made no answer, and he lost his patience.

"Isabel," he cried, "I'm ashamed of you!"

"Don't say anything you'll be sorry for afterwards, Basil," she replied,
with the forbearance of those who have reason and justice on their side.

The rapids beat and shouted round their little prison-isle, each billow
leaping as if possessed by a separate demon. The absurd horror of the
situation overwhelmed him. He dared not attempt to carry her ashore, for
she might spring from his grasp into the flood. He could not leave her to
call for help; and what if nobody came till she lost her mind from
terror? Or, what if somebody should come and find them in that ridiculous
affliction?

Somebody was coming!

"Isabel!" he shouted in her ear, "here come those people we saw in the
parlor last night."

Isabel dashed her veil over her face, clutched Basil's with her icy hand,
rose, drew her arm convulsively through his, and walked ashore without a
word.

In a sheltered nook they sat down, and she quickly "repaired her drooping
head and tricked her beams" again. He could see her tearfully smiling
through her veil. "My dear," he said, "I don't ask an explanation of your
fright, for I don't suppose you could give it. But should you mind
telling me why those people were so sovereign against it?"

"Why, dearest! Don't you understand? That Mrs. Richard--whoever she
is--is so much like me."

She looked at him as if she had made the most satisfying statement, and
he thought he had better not ask further then, but wait in hope that the
meaning would come to him. They walked on in silence till they came to
the Biddle Stairs, at the head of which is a notice that persons have
been killed by pieces of rock from the precipice overhanging the shore
below, and warning people that they descend at their peril. Isabel
declined to visit the Cave of the Winds, to which these stairs lead, but
was willing to risk the ascent of Terrapin Tower. "Thanks; no," said her
husband. "You might find it unsafe to come back the way you went up. We
can't count certainly upon the appearance of the lady who is so much like
you; and I've no fancy for spending my life on Terrapin Tower." So he
found her a seat, and went alone to the top of the audacious little
structure standing on the verge of the cataract, between the smooth curve
of the Horse-Shoe and the sculptured front of the Central Fall, with the
stormy sea of the Rapids behind, and the river, dim seen through the
mists, crawling away between its lofty bluffs before. He knew again the
awful delight with which so long ago he had watched the changes in the
beauty of the Canadian Fall as it hung a mass of translucent green from
the brink, and a pearly white seemed to crawl up from the abyss, and
penetrate all its substance to the very crest, and then suddenly vanished
from it, and perpetually renewed the same effect. The mystery of the
rising vapors veiled the gulf into which the cataract swooped; the sun
shone, and a rainbow dreamed upon them.

Near the foot of the tower, some loose rocks extend quite to the verge,
and here Basil saw an elderly gentleman skipping from one slippery stone
to another, and looking down from time to time into the abyss, who, when
he had amused himself long enough in this way, clambered up on the plank
bridge. Basil, who had descended by this time, made bold to say that he
thought the diversion an odd one and rather dangerous. The gentleman took
this in good part, and owned it might seem so, but added that a
distinguished phrenologist had examined his head, and told him he had
equilibrium so large that he could go anywhere.

"On your bridal tour, I presume," he continued, as they approached the
bench where Basil had left Isabel. She had now the company of a plain,
middle-aged woman, whose attire hesitatingly expressed some inward
festivity, and had a certain reluctant fashionableness. "Well, this is my
third bridal tour to Niagara, and my wife 's been here once before on the
same business. We see a good many changes. I used to stand on Table Rock
with the others. Now that's all gone. Well, old lady, shall we move on?"
he asked; and this bridal pair passed up the path, attended, haply, by
the guardian spirits of those who gave the place so many sad yet pleasing
associations.

At dinner, Mr. Richard's party sat at the table next Basil's, and they
were all now talking cheerfully over the emptiness of the spacious
dining-hall.

"Well, Kitty," the married lady was saying, "you can tell the girls what
you please about the gayeties of Niagara, when you get home. They'll
believe anything sooner than the truth."

"O yes, indeed," said Kitty, "I've got a good deal of it made up already.
I'll describe a grand hop at the hotel, with fashionable people from all
parts of the country, and the gentlemen I danced with the most. I'm going
to have had quite a flirtation with the gentleman of the long blond
mustache, whom we met on the bridge this morning and he's got to do duty
in accounting for my missing glove. Among the walls of the city grew by
two parts of equal and equally brave bitterly with varying degrees of
success often fought, but their purpose: Pompeianischen between the camp
and the city is fixed and thus the Steinbrueck to conquer.,
Caesarianer not reached and remained so for their communication
with Gaul only dependent on two bridges, which they on the Sicoris
and, as the river itself at Ilerda such bridging was too handsome,
four to five German miles oberwaerts in a hurry had beaten.

When the snow melts with the flood came, they were swept away Notbruecken,
and because it lacked boats to the rivers hochangeschwollenen to happen,
and under these circumstances to restore the bridges initially thought
could be, so was the Caesar's army is limited to the narrow space between
the Cinca and the Sicoris, the left bank of the Sicoris, however, and
thus the street on which the army of Gaul and Italy, communicated, and
almost undefended Pompeianern the price, which the river partly on
the Stadtbruecke, partly Lusitanian species on hoses floating
passed. It was the time shortly before the harvest, the old fruit was
almost gone, the new has not yet been introduced, and the narrow strip of
land between the two streams ausgezehrt soon.

In the camp was formally famine - the Prussian bushel of wheat costs 300
denarii (90 Credits) - and broke safer from disease, while piled on the
left bank and the most diverse food supply to all teams this type of
replenishment from Gaul cavalry and protect absent officers and soldiers,
returning grazing flocks, throughout a mass of 6000 heads, which of
the Pompeianern with superior power and attacked with great loss in the
mountains have been pushed, while the Caesarianer on the right bank of
the unequal battle had to be idle and watch. The connections of the army
were in the hands of Pompeianer in Italy remained the news from Spain
suddenly, and the dubious rumors that there umzulaufen started from the
truth were not too far away. Had the Pompeianer their advantage with
some pursued so that they could not be missing, on the left bank of the
Sicoris zusammengedraengte, hardly robust mass either in their violence,
or at least to bring into Gaul returned to shore and this is completely
vacant, that without her knowledge no man river exceeded. Solo was
both been omitted, those clusters were probably at a loss pushed aside,
but neither destroyed nor completely discarded, and the excess over the
river to fight back, you gave much the river itself Then Caesar built
his plan. He had portable barges from light wooden frame and wicker with
leather garments, according to the pattern of the canal in the British
and later the Saxons usual, in the warehouse and prepare them on wagons
to the point where the bridges had stood, transport.

In this frail bark was reached the other shore, and because it was
vacant, without much difficulty in restoring the bridge, was quickly
followed by the link road cleared and the eagerly awaited influx in the
camp managed. Caesars happy invasion So the army pulled out of the
immense danger in which it floated. Immediately began to Caesars
efficiency of the enemy far superior cavalry, the landscape on the left
bank of Sicoris to roam; already joined the prestigious Spanish municipalities
between the Pyrenees and the Ebro, Osca, Tarraco, Dertosa and others,
even some from the south to the Ebro Caesar's side. By grazing squad
About Caesars and the footholds of the neighboring communities was
now Pompeianern the scarce supply, they finally decided to retreat
behind the Ebrolinie and hastily went out below the Sicorismuendung
a Schiffbruecke on the Ebro River to beat.

Caesar looked at the opponents on the way back off the Ebro and in Ilerda
noted; alone as long as the enemy in possession of the bridge remained
in Ilerda and neither he nor ford Bruecken in its violence had allowed
his army not to the two river banks and distribute Ilerda could not
be included. His soldiers schanzten ie day and night, through the river
Abzugsgraeben so much deeper to determine that the infantry
can wade through it. But the preparations for the Pompeianer the Ebro to
happen came to an end earlier than the institutions of Caesarianer for
inclusion of Ilerda; than those after the completion of the march
Schiffbruecke after the Ebro River to the left bank of replayability Sicoris
seemed to Ableitungsgraeben of the Caesarianer Mr Field but not far enough
advanced to the ford for the infantry to use only his horsemen, he power
to pass, and the enemies are on the heels heftend least stop him
and injury.

With Caesar's legions as the grauenden since midnight the morning peeling
columns enemy saw, they understood the security krieggewohnter
veterans instinktmaessigen the strategic importance of this retreat, they
coerced the enemy in remote, inaccessible and hostile crowds met
landscapes to follow their Please separate dared the captain, even the
people walking into the river to lead, and although the people until the
water went to the shoulders, but he was passed without accident. It was
high time. If the narrow level, the city Ilerda from the Ebro girt
mountains separating once passed and the army of Pompeianer in the
mountains had occurred, it was the withdrawal of the Ebro they no
longer be denied. Already had the same, in spite of stocks, immensely
delaying the march of the enemy cavalry attacks, the mountains are up to
one miles closer than they, since midnight on the marches and unutterable
exhausted their original plan, the plane still on this day not to
Through, and storage tasks suggested. Caesar's infantry brought here
and stored it in the evening and during the night against them by
the initially planned nightly march of the Next Pompeianern for fear of
the night attack by the cavalry was abandoned. Also on the following
days both armies stood motionless, only employs the region rekognoszieren.
On early morning of the third broke Caesars people on foot, around,
through the mountains pfadlosen side of the road to the position of the
enemy as soon as possible, the way to the Ebro River to relocate. The
purpose of the strange march, which started in the warehouse before
Ilerda is zurueckzuwenden seemed, was from the officers Pompeianischen
not immediately recognized. When they took him, they sacrificed and
luggage storage and moves in the forced march on the main road to make the
Uferkamm before the Caesarianern to win. However, it was already too
late, already did, when she drew on the great road closed even the masses
of the enemy. A desperate attempt by the Pompeianer, over the mountain
paths to other parts of the Ebro to identify, was thwarted by Caesar's
cavalry, which to vorgesandten Lusitanian troops surrounded and zusammenhieb.
Would it Pompeianischen between the army, the enemy's horsemen in the
back, the people of the front foot is in front and had entirely
demoralized, and the Caesarianern came to a battle, whose outcome was
hardly in doubt, and the opportunity to hitting repeatedly offered
itself but Caesar did not use them and not easily reined in, the impatient
desire of his victorious fight some soldiers. The Pompeianische army
was already strategically lost; Caesar avoided it, by his army useless
bloodshed and to weaken the arge feud further poison.

Even on the day after it had succeeded, the Pompeianer cut off from
the Ebro, had the soldiers of both armies began to fraternize with
each other and because of the transfer to act, so they were already
provided by the Pompeianern required conditions, including conservation
officers, Caesar been admitted as Petreius with his slaves and Spaniards
from existing escort about Unterhaendler zukam and Caesarianer whose
habhaft he promised, it had settled.

Caesar nevertheless sent to him in the camp have come back unharmed
Pompeianer and maintained in the process of a peaceful solution to
search. Ilerda, where the crew and Pompeianer still respectable magazines
had now became the target of their march, in front of the hostile army,
and between himself and the fortress of the Sicoris, she marched
with her goal.

Their cavalry was intimidated so slowly that the people walking in
the middle and legions in the rear had to be made, the purchase of
water and Fourage became increasingly difficult, even had to load
the animals come down because they could not feed.

Finally found wandering about the Army formally included in the
Sicoris back before the enemy army, the rampart and ditch around
it herumzog.

She tried to cross the river, but Caesar's German horse and light infantry
were in the occupation of the opposing shore her before. All the bravery
and loyalty were all the inevitable capitulation no longer turn away
(August 2 705 49). Caesar granted not only officers and soldiers lives and
freedom and both the property of their effects still remained as well
as the return of them already removed, the full value of his own
soldiers to reimburse its over, but while it recruits caught in Italy,
forced into its Army had indicated, he honored the former Legionaries
of Pompey by the promise that none against his will should be forced
into his army to enter. He asked only that each of the arms and
in his homeland have. Accordingly, the native soldiers from Spain, about
the third part of the army, once the Italian on the border of this
world and Jen Gaul adopted. Diesseits The Spain coincided with the
dissolution of this army, even in the violence of the winner. The Hereafter,
where Marcus Varro for Pompey led the supreme command, it seemed that
when he was the disaster of Ilerda learned the raetlichste, in the
island city of Gades, and to raise the considerable sums which he
Tempelschaetze the confiscation of property and the prestigious
Caesarianer had brought together, are not insignificant he established
fleet and the flock entrusted to him two legions there to bring in security.
Solo on the mere rumor of Caesar's arrival point, the most famous
cities of the Caesar has long been devoted to the province for this and
chased the Pompeianischen crews or certain equivalent to waste:
so Corduba, Carmo and Gades himself also broke one of the legions
at his own hand after Hispalis and came to this city at the same
time Caesar's side.

When finally even the Italica Varro the gates locked, it is decided
to capitulate. Around the same time also subjected Massalia. With rare
Massalioten had the power not just to endure the siege, but also the sea
against Caesar claimed it was her homely element and they could hope to
build on this strong support received from Pompey to which so dominated
the sea only. Meanwhile, Caesar's sub captain, the efficiency Decimus
Brutus, the same, the Veneti on the first Seesieg in the ocean had erfochten
knew quickly built a fleet and, despite the valiant resistance of the
enemy, and partly from albioekischen Soldknechten the Massalioten,
partly out of the shepherd slaves Domitian existing fleet team, by his
brave, from the legions of soldiers ship selected the stronger fleet
massaliotische to overcome, and the larger half of the ships to sink or
to conquer. When a small squadron under Pompeianisches Lucius Nasidius
from the East on Sicily and Sardinia in the port of Massalia arrived, the
Massalioten renewed again their Seeruestung and ran simultaneously with
the ship end Nasidius against Brutus from. Had said in the meeting
that at the height of Tauroeis (La Ciotat, east of Marseille) was
beaten, the ships of the Nasidius with the same desperate courage as to
the massaliotischen on that day proved to want the same result probably
been a different alone to escape the Nasidianer decided the victory for
Brutus and the ruins of the Pompeianischen fleet fled to Spain.

The besieged from the sea were completely suppressed. On the land side,
where Gaius Trebonius led the siege, was also later determined to
have resistance continued alone, despite the frequent failures of
the albioekischen Soeldner and the skillful use of the monstrous,
in the city aufgehaeuften Geschuetzvorraete finally receded but the
work of the besieger up to the Wall and one of the towers collapsed
together.

The Massalioten stated that they abandon the defense, but with Caesar himself
wished to surrender insurance, and requested the Roman commanders, to
Caesar's arrival the siege works cease. Trebonius was measured command
of Caesar, the city as much as possible to save it granted the requested
cease-fire. Solo since Massalioten him a treacherous failure used in
which one half of the almost unguarded Roman works completely burnt, and
began anew with increased bitterness of the siege battle. The brave commander
of the Roemer noted with surprising swiftness, the destroyed towers and
the dam restored soon were again completely Massalioten included. As Caesar,
from the subjugation of Spain go back before they reached town,
he found the same part by the enemy attacks, partly by hunger and
diseases brought overwhelming and, for the second time, and this
seriously, willing to capitulate to any condition.

Only Domitian, shamefully abused the indulgence of the winner Bearing,
ascended a post and slipped through the Roman fleet, in order for his
implacable resentment a third battlefield to search. Caesar's soldiers
had sworn that the entire male population of the city faithless
jump over the blade to leave and called with vehemence by the commander
to sign the looting. Young Caesar, his great task of the Hellenic-Italian
civilization in the West to justify recalling here, did not compel the
destruction of Corinth continued to deliver. Massalia of those once so
numerous free and maritime powers of the ancient Ionian cities Schifferstadt
nation from the home farthest and almost the last in which the Hellenic
seafaring life yet clean and fresh that had received, as well as
the last Greek city in the Lake has beaten - Massalia had in his
arms and Flottenvorraete deliver to the winner and lost part of its
territory and its privileges but retained its freedom and its
nationality, and remained, although diminished physical conditions,
but mentally still the focus the Hellenic culture in the remote,
just now to a new historical significance comes Celtic landscape.

Thus, while in the western landscapes of war, according to some dubious
Wechselfaellen then certainly to the benefit of Caesar, and ruled Spain
and Massalia subject, the main enemy army to the last man was captured,
was also on the second battleground, on which Caesar found it necessary,
immediately after the conquest of Italy to take the offensive, the
decision held weapons. It was already said that the intention had
Pompeianer, Italy auszuhungern. The means to that end they had in hands.
They ruled the sea and worked perfectly everywhere, in Gades, Utica,
Messana, especially in the East, with great zeal in the propagation
of their fleet, they had also inne all provinces from which the city
moved its Subsistenzmittel: Sardinia and Corsica by Marcus Cotta,
Sicily by Marcus Cato, Africa through the self-proclaimed Mr.

Titus Oberfeld Attius varus and its allies, the king of Juba Numidien. It
was necessary for Caesar imperative that these plans to thwart the enemy
and the same grain to wrest provinces. Quintus Valerius was a legion sent
to Sardinia and forced the governor Pompeianischen, to vacate the
island.

The main companies, Sicily and Africa, the enemies off, was assisted
by the skilful and experienced war Gaius Caninius Rebilus the young Gaius
Curio entrusted. Sicily was taken from him without a sword String occupied;
Cato without the right army and not a man of Degens admits the island
once in his righteous nature of the Sikelioten had previously
warned, is not useless by inadequate resistance to compromise. Curio had
to cover the capital for this important island of the back half of his
troops, and embarked with the other two legions, and 500 riders, according
to Africa. Here he could expect serious resistance to find out the
handsome and stalwart in their nature Jubas army had the governor
Varus in Africa from the Romans established two legions formed and a small
squadron of ten sail up. Using its superior fleet Curio accomplished
without difficulty, however, the landing between Hadrumetum, where a
legion of enemies along with their warships, and Utica, in which city the
second legion under Varus himself stood. Curio turned against the latter
and suggested his camp not far from Utica, ibidem, where a half centuries
before the older Scipio his first winter camp in Africa had taken. Caesar,
forced his core troops for the Spanish war together, had the
sizilisch-African army mostly from the legions over the enemy, including
prisoners of war from Corfinium, have put together the Pompeianischen
officers of the army in Africa, partly for the same in Corfinium overcome
legions had confessed, had now no means untried, their old, now
they are against fencing the soldiers for their first Eidschwur
back again.

Somehow it's begun to pervade me and possess me
in a very uncomfortable way; I'm tossed upon rapids, and flung from
cataract brinks, and dizzied in whirlpools; I'm no longer yours, Basil;
I'm most unhappily married to Niagara. Fly with me, save me from my awful
lord!"

She lightly burlesqued the woes of a prima donna, with clasped hands and
uplifted eyes.

"That'll do very well," Basil commented, "and it implies a reality that
can't be quite definitely spoken. We come to Niagara in the patronizing
spirit in which we approach everything nowadays, and for a few hours we
have it our own way, and pay our little tributes of admiration with as
much complacency as we feel in acknowledging the existence of the Supreme
Being. But after a while we are aware of some potent influence
undermining our self-satisfaction; we begin to conjecture that the great
cataract does not exist by virtue of our approval, and to feel that it
will not cease when we go away. The second day makes us its abject
slaves, and on the third we want to fly from it in terror. I believe some
people stay for weeks, however, and hordes of them have written odes to
Niagara."

"I can't understand it, at all," said Isabel. "I don't wonder now that
the town should be so empty this season, but that it should ever be full.
I wish we'd gone after our first look at the Falls from the suspension
bridge. How beautiful that was! I rejoice in everything that I haven't
done. I'm so glad I haven't been in the Cave of the Winds; I'm so happy
that Table Rock fell twenty years ago! Basil, I couldn't stand another
rainbow today. I'm sorry we went out on the Three Weird Sisters. O, I
shall dream about it! and the rush, and the whirl, and the dampness in
one's face, and the everlasting chirr-r-r-r of everything!"

She dipped suddenly upon his shoulder for a moment's oblivion, and then
rose radiant with a question: "Why in the world, if Niagara is really
what it seems to us now, do so many bridal parties come here?"

"Perhaps they're the only people who've the strength to bear up against
it, and are not easily dispersed and subjected by it."

"But we're dispersed and subjected."

"Ah, my dear, we married a little late. Who knows how it would be if you
were nineteen instead of twenty-seven, and I twenty-five and not turned
of thirty?"

"Basil, you're very cruel."

"No, no. But don't you see how it is? We've known too much of life to
desire any gloomy background for our happiness. We're quite contented to
have things gay and bright about us. It is odd, but probably declare
that those in power are mutually supported Pompey after the disaster
left by Aduatuca in Winter 700 (54) to leave one of his legions
sacked Italian loan to Caesar, the other granted Caesar Pompey his
consent and his moral support in Repressivmassregeln that this
stoerrige against the Republican opposition seized.

Only after Pompey in this way in the beginning of the year 702 (52), the
Consulate and an undivided by the Caesar's vast influence in the capital
gains and all the weapons team in Italy Soldateneid in his hands
and his name was completed, he the decision as soon as possible
with Caesar formally to break, and the intention was also clearly
apparent enough.

The fact that after the attack on the street Appischen held at Caesars
prosecution old Democratic Party comrades with sparing loose firmness
met, could maybe go as a mere awkwardness. That the new law against
Wahlumtriebe by up to 684 (70) zurueckgriff, even the dubious operations
in Caesar's candidature for the consulate miteinschloss, liked
the same if not more, although not a few Caesarianer is a specific
intent to recognize said. But even with the best will could no longer
close their eyes, as Pompey to colleagues in the consulate not to
his former father-in-law Caesar chose as the location of the thing
represented, and often was called, but in his new father-in-law
Scipio is one of him totally dependent cast as extras on the side
continued, even less than Pompey, while both the governorship of
Spain in another five years, ie up to 709 (45) Renew and pay for
his troops from the State Treasury a considerable sum fixed eject
left, not only without Caesar for an extension of the same commands
and the same amount of money to permit conditions, but even at the
same time given by the new regulations about the occupation of the
Governor's activities from afar towards a dismissal before the
Caesars earlier agreed date.

Unmistakably, these attacks to be calculated, Caesar's position to undermine
him, and soon to fall. The moment could not be more favorable. Only
about Luca had Caesar in Pompey so much acknowledged as Crassus and
his Syrian army at a possible break with Pompey necessary scale fell into
Caesar's; because Crassus, since the sullanischen time with Pompey
on the deepest and most enemies with Caesar ebensolange politically and
federalizes personally, and after all its peculiarity, if he does not
even king of Rome was, even so that would have satisfied, the new King of
Rome to his banker, had ever count on Caesar, and in any case provide
that it is against as an ally of his enemies to behold. The disaster
of June 791 (53), in the army and captain in Syria were based, was
also a matter for Caesar a terribly difficult blow. A few months later
blazing in Gaul, ibidem it seemed completely subject to national
Insurrektion powerful than ever upwards and met for the first time here
Caesar against an equal opponent in the Arvernerkoenig to Vercingetorix.
Once again, the fate of Pompey worked: Crassus was dead, quite in the
uprising of Gaul, Pompey in fact, dictator of Rome and the Senate,
Mr. - what fans would have come if he is now, instead of into the
distance inside to intrigue against Caesar, Kurzweg the residents
or forcing the Senate, Caesar from Gaul to retrieve instantly!

But Pompey has never understood the luck in the Locke-making. He announced
the break to clear enough, already 702 (52) let his actions in no doubt
about it in the spring and 703 (51) he said his intention to break with
Caesar, from blatantly, but he did not and had missed the months elapse
. Indes as Pompey hesitated, but the crisis brought by the emphasis of
the things themselves inexorably approached. The imminent war was not
about a battle between Republic and Monarchy - The decision was
taken several years ago - but a struggle for the possession of the crown
of Rome between Caesar and Pompey. But none of the Praetendenten
found in his account, the right slogan to pronounce, so he had the
whole a very respectable proportion of the residents of the continued
existence of the Republic wanted and believed in its possibility,
the opponent almost driven to the camp.

The old battle cries as they Gracchus and Drusus, Cinna and Sulla angestimmt
had consumed and how they were inhaltlos, were still good enough for
the field yelling for the fight of the two to the exclusive dominion
wrestling Generale, and although for the moment as both Pompey Caesar
officially become known as the Popular Party expected, so it was not
a moment doubtful, that Caesar and the people's democratic progress and
Pompey the aristocracy and the constitution to be legitimate Panier
will write.

Caesar had no choice.

He was out of the box very seriously, and Democrat, the monarchy,
as he understood, more issue than the nature itself of the regiment
gracchischen people differently, and he too was a highly perceptive
and profound statesman, in order to cover its color and under another
as his own coat of arms to fight. The immediate benefits of course,
this is the field yelling he said, was low, he limited mainly to the
fact that he makes the discomfort ueberhoben promised, the kingdom
to name and with the proscribed words, the mass of the Lauen
and their supporters konsternieren. Positive profit, the Democratic Flag
nor a little, since the ideals gracchischen by Clodius shameful and had
become ridiculous, because where there were now, apart from the
Transpadanern around a circle of any importance by the battle cries of
democracy to participate in the battle that could have been determined?
This would also Pompeius' role in the impending battle was decided,
if not already there of course would have understood that he knew in
the same market as the legitimate captain of the Republic. He had one where
the nature of the link provides an aristocracy, and very random and very
selfish motives had him as Ueberlaeufer from the aristocracy in the
democratic camp run. That he is now back on its traditions sullanischen
back, was not only appropriately, but in every aspect of substantial
benefit. To consume the Democratic field was yelling, so knew the
tremendous impact his conservative when it comes from the right man out.
Perhaps the majority, and in any case, the core of the residents,
is part of the constitutionally-abiding party, and their numerical
and moral strength after was the same qualified in the upcoming
Praetendentenkampf in powerful, perhaps in a decisive manner to
intervene.

It lacked nothing as a guide. Marcus Cato, their current principal,
as Vormann did his duty as he understood it, every day life in danger,
and perhaps without hope of success, his duty is honorable fidelity,
but the last one on a lost item to be soldiers is, do not Feldherrnlob.

The huge reserve, which the Party of the toppled government
of himself as an adult was in Italy, he neither knew nor timely to
organize the struggle to draw, and what arrived at the end of everything,
the military leadership, he has good reasons never claimed taken. If instead
of this man who is neither party nor the main-General to be understood,
a man of Pompey 'political and military importance of the banner of the
existing constitution did so poured the necessary municipal lots
of the same in Italy, to which, although not for the King Pompey,
But against the King Caesar fight to help. This was another, at least
equally important moment. It was Pompey 'kind, even if he chose, not the
way to resolve its execution can be found. If it is the war perhaps,
but certainly not to explain understood, it was incapable of safely
Catone party, to lead him, but very capable, and above all very ready
to go against the foundation of the war diverge monarchy to motivate.
After Pompey 'intention should be, while he himself is held aside and
in its way soon soon talked them into his Spanish provinces away to try
to soon to take over the command on the Euphrates is ready to deal with
the legitimate GOVERNMENTAL, which means the Senate with Caesar stop him
and explain the war with Pompey appoint its leaders, then, the general
desire for critical, as protector of the Constitution against
demagogically-monarchic Wuehlereien, as a legal man and soldier of the
existing order against the libertine and anarchists, as wohlbestallter
captain of the Curia against the Emperor of the street to perform and
once again to save the fatherland imagined. So Pompey won by the alliance
with the conservatives, partly to his personal Pendant a second army,
and partly a proper war manifesto - advantages which, however,
were bought by the high price of merger with principled opponents.
Of the countless Uebelstaenden, which in this coalition were developed,
only the first one, but already very serious, that Pompey is out of
hand was when and how he liked poised against Caesar, and at this crucial
point is dependent made by all the randomness and caprice of an aristocratic
corporation.

This was then the Republican opposition, after they are years in the role
of the audience was satisfied and have had hardly dared to whistle may
now by the impending rupture of the power back on the political Schaubuehne
RECONSTITUTED. It was first the circle that Cato in his heart thought those
Republicans who fight for the Republic and against the monarchy
under all circumstances and the sooner the better to take the risks
were determined.

The dismal outcome of the year 698 (56), she had made experiment taught
that they alone of the war neither lead nor even were able to cause;
Maennig it was known that even in the Senate while the whole body with a
few isolated exceptions of the monarchy was reluctant, but the majority
but the oligarchic regiment only wanted to restore, if there is no danger
had restored, which it certainly had a good time. About opposite the one
in power, otherwise some of these flaccid majority, which, above all,
and peace at any price and any required decisive action, most take
resolute break with one or other of the rulers was disinclined, Catone
was for the party the only possibility, to a restoration of the
old regiment to go into coalition with the less dangerous to the rulers.
If Pompey are on the oligarchic constitution known and for them to argue
against Caesar is offered, it could and had the Republican opposition to
him as her commander and recognize him in league with the timid
majority to force declaration of war. That there is Pompey with fidelity
to its constitution was not full of seriousness, although no one could
escape, but half as he was in everything, it was him but not as
significant as the Caesar and secure sense that, it's the first store of
its new monarch it needs, with the oligarchic junk clean up thoroughly and
conclusively. In all cases, the war is a real Republican Army and the
Republican leaders really up, and it was then, after the victory over
Caesar, under more favorable outlook this way, not just one of the monarch,
but the concepts themselves to abolish monarchy.

Desperate as the cause of the oligarchy, was the offer of Pompey's,
with her to unite, for the most favorable coincidence. The conclusion
of the alliance between Pompey and Catone party took place relatively
quickly.

Even while Pompeius' dictatorship was both a remarkable rapprochement
has taken place.

Pompey whole Milone behavior in the crisis, his sharp rejection of
the dictatorship of the mob to him requesting his particular
explanation, only the Senate to accept this office to his unnachsichtige
Strict Ruhestoerer against any kind, especially against the
ultra-Democrats, the striking courteousness, thus Cato, he and his
sympathizers treated, it seemed well calculated for the men to win
the order, as for the Democrats were insulting Caesar.

Other hand, had Cato and his faithful application, Pompey the dictatorship
to take over, instead of usual rigorism with him to fight under
insignificant Formaenderungen to theirs made first from the hands
of Bibulus Cato and Pompey had the undivided Consulate received.

If so too early in the year 702 (52) Party and the Catone Pompey
least tacitly understood, then the Alliance was formally completed
as applicable, as in the Consular Elections for 703 (51) did not
even Cato was chosen, but next to a insignificant man of one of the
most determined Senatsmajoritaet Pendant Cato, Marcus Claudius
Marcellus.

Marcellus was not a rousing zealots and even less a genius, but a solid
character and strict aristocrat, just the right man to when the war with
Caesar should begin to explain the same. What were the circumstances,
it can be invoked immediately after the Republican opposition to
the measures taken so conspicuous Repressivmassregeln election
hardly done otherwise than with the consent or at least the tacit
approval of the current Habers power of Rome.

Slow and burdensome, as he maintained, but progressively Pompey unrelated
to the fracture. In Caesar's intention was not, however, in this moment
with Pompey is about to throw. While earnestly and in the long run, he
could force the rulers with any colleagues want to share, at least
with such a minor nature, such as Pompey, and no doubt he was a
long decided, after termination of the Gallic conquest of the
exclusive rule for himself to take and, if necessary with the weapons
to force.

With a man like Caesar, in which the officer be subordinate to the
statesman, could not disregard the fact that the regulation of the
organism state by force of arms the same effects in their deep and often
shattered forever, and had a question, if possible, the involvement
by peaceful means or at least civil war without revealing to solve
search.

War but not the civil war be avoided, so he could not but wish, now
urged to be in Gaul where the uprising of Vercingetorix everything achieved
anew questioned him from the winter and 701/02 (53/52) to winter
702/03 (52/51) disrupted, where Pompey and his anti-constitutional
principle party in Italy offered.
They perceived that beauty was not only its own
excuse for being, but that it flattered and favored and profited the
world by consenting to be.

At Prescott, the boat on which they had come from Charlotte, and on which
they had been promised a passage without change to Montreal, stopped, and
they were transferred to a smaller steamer with the uncomfortable name of
Banshee. She was very old, and very infirm and dirty, and in every way
bore out the character of a squalid Irish goblin. Besides, she was
already heavily laden with passengers, and, with the addition of the
other steamer's people had now double her complement; and our friends
doubted if they were not to pass the Rapids in as much danger as
discomfort. Their fellow-passengers were in great variety, however, and
thus partly atoned for their numbers. Among them of course there was a
full force of brides from Niagara and elsewhere, and some curious forms
of the prevailing infatuation appeared. It is well enough, if she likes,
and it may even be very noble for a passably good-looking young lady to
marry a gentleman of venerable age; but to intensify the idea of
self-devotion by furtively caressing his wrinkled front seems too
reproachful of the general public; while, on the other hand, if the bride
is very young and pretty, it enlists in behalf of the white-haired
husband the unwilling sympathies of the spectator to see her the centre
of a group of young people, and him only acknowledged from time to time
by a Parthian snub. Nothing, however, could have been more satisfactory
than the sisterly surrounding of this latter bride. They were of a better
class of Irish people; and if it had been any sacrifice for her to marry
so old a man, they were doing their best to give the affair at least the
liveliness of a wake. There were five or six of those great handsome
girls, with their generous curves and wholesome colors, and they were
every one attended by a good-looking colonial lover, with whom they joked
in slightly brogued voices, and laughed with careless Celtic laughter.
One of the young fellows presently lost his hat overboard, and had to
wear the handkerchief of his lady about his head; and this appeared to be
really one of the best things in the world, and led to endless banter.
They were well dressed, and it could be imagined that the ancient
bridegroom had come in for the support of the whole good-looking,
healthy, light-hearted family. In some degree he looked it, and wore but
a rueful countenance for a bridegroom; so that a very young newly married
couple, who sat next the jolly sister-and-loverhood could not keep their
pitying eyes off his downcast face. "What if he, too, were young at
heart!" the kind little wife's regard seemed to say.

For the sake of the slight air that was stirring, and to have the best
view of the Rapids, the Banshee's whole company was gathered upon the
forward promenade, and the throng was almost as dense as in a six-o'clock
horse-car out from Boston. The standing and sitting groups were closely
packed together, and the expanded parasols and umbrellas formed a nearly
unbroken roof. Under this Isabel chatted at intervals with the Ellisons,
who sat near; but it was not an atmosphere that provoked social feeling,
and she was secretly glad when after a while they shifted their position.

It was deadly hot, and most of the people saddened and silenced in the
heat. From time to time the clouds idling about overhead met and
sprinkled down a cruel little shower of rain that seemed to make the air
less breathable than before. The lonely shores were yellow with drought;
the islands grew wilder and barrener; the course of the river was for
miles at a stretch through country which gave no signs of human life. The
St. Lawrence has none of the bold picturesqueness of the Hudson, and is
far more like its far-off cousin the Mississippi. Its banks are low like
the Mississippi's, its current, swift, its way through solitary lands.
The same sentiment of early adventure hangs about each: both are haunted
by visions of the Jesuit in his priestly robe, and the soldier in his
mediaeval steel; the same gay, devout, and dauntless race has touched
them both with immortal romance. If the water were of a dusky golden
color, instead of translucent green, and the shores and islands were
covered with cottonwoods and willows instead of dark cedars, one could
with no great effort believe one's self on the Mississippi between Cairo
and St. Louis, so much do the great rivers strike one as kindred in the
chief features of their landscape. Only, in tracing this resemblance you
do not know just what to do with the purple mountains of Vermont, seen
vague against the horizon from the St. Lawrence, or with the quaint
little French villages that begin to show themselves as you penetrate
farther down into Lower Canada. These look so peaceful, with their
dormer-windowed cottages clustering about their church-spires, that it
seems impossible they could once have been the homes of the savages and
the cruel peasants who, with fire-brand and scalping-knife and tomahawk,
harassed the borders of New England for a hundred years. But just after
you descend the Long Sault you pass the hamlet of St. Regis, in which was
kindled the torch that wrapt Deerfield in flames, waking her people from
their sleep to meet instant death or taste the bitterness of a captivity.
The bell which was sent out from France for the Indian converts of the
Jesuits, and was captured by an English ship and carried into Salem, and
thence sold to Deerfield, where it called the Puritans to prayer, till at
last it also summoned the priest-led Indians and 'habitans' across
hundreds of miles of winter and of wilderness to reclaim it from that
desecration,--this fateful bell still hangs in the church-tower of St.
Regis, and has invited to matins and vespers for nearly two centuries the
children of those who fought so pitilessly and dared and endured so much
for it. Our friends would fair have heard it as they passed, hoping for
some mournful note of history in its sound; but it hung silent over the
silent hamlet, which, as it lay in the hot afternoon sun by the river's
side, seemed as lifeless as the Deerfield burnt long ago.

They turned from it to look at a gentleman who had just appeared in a
mustard-colored linen duster, and Basil asked, "Shouldn't you like to
know the origin, personal history, and secret feelings of a gentleman who
goes about in a duster of that particular tint? Or, that gentleman yonder
with his eye tied up in a wet handkerchief, do you suppose he's
travelling for pleasure? Look at those young people from Omaha: they
haven't ceased flirting or cackling since we left Kingston. Do you think
everybody has such spirits out at Omaha? But behold a yet more surprising
figure than any we have yet seen among this boat-load of nondescripts."

This was a tall, handsome young man, with a face of somewhat foreign
cast, and well dressed, with a certain impressive difference from the
rest in the cut of his clothes. But what most drew the eye to him was a
large cross, set with brilliants, and surmounted by a heavy double-headed
eagle in gold. This ornament dazzled from a conspicuous place on the left
lappet of his coat; on his hand shone a magnificent diamond ring, and he
bore a stately opera-glass, with which, from time to time, he
imperiously, as one may say, surveyed the landscape. As the imposing
apparition grew upon Isa-bel, "O here," she thought, "is something truly
distinguished. Of course, dear," she added aloud to Basil, "he's some
foreign nobleman travelling here"; and she ran over in her mind the
newspaper announcements of patrician visitors from abroad and tried to
identify him with some one of them. The cross must be the decoration of a
foreign order, and Basil suggested that he was perhaps a member of some
legation at Washington, who had ran up there for his summer vacation. The
cross puzzled him, but the double-headed eagle, he said, meant either
Austria or Russia; probably Austria, for the wearer looked a trifle too
civilized for a Russian.

"Yes, indeed! What an air he has. Never tell me. Basil, that there's
nothing in blood!" cried Isabel, who was a bitter aristocrat at heart,
like all her sex, though in principle she was democratic enough. As she
spoke, the object of her regard looked about him on the different groups,
not with pride, not with hauteur, but with a glance of unconscious,
unmistakable superiority. "O, that stare!" she added; "nothing but high
birth and long descent can give it! Dearest, he's becoming a great
affliction to me. I want to know who he is. Couldn't you invent some
pretext for speaking to him?"

"No, I couldn't do it decently; and no doubt he'd snub me as I deserved
if I intruded upon him. Let's wait for fortune to reveal him."

"Well, I suppose I must, but it's dreadful; it's really dreadful. You can
easily see that's distinction," she continued, as her hero moved about
the promenade and gently but loftily made a way for himself among the
other passengers and favored the scenery through his opera-glass from one
point and another. Each winner makes the revolutionary experience, that
if he is not overwhelmed by the opponents, as Cinna and Sulla, the
main left party, but like Caesar, like Henry IV and William of
Orange, to replace the one-party program needed the welfare of the
community set will instantly all parties who own such as the
vanquished, against the new head unite, and more so ever larger and
purer the same conceives his new profession.

The Constitution and the Friends Pompeianer if they also paid homage to
the lips Caesar, grollten but in the heart of either the monarchy
or at least of the dynasty and the fall of democracy was, since she
understood that Caesar's purposes were far from theirs, against the same
in open rebellion; even the personal Caesars Pendant murmured, as her
principal place of a Condottierstaats one Support All Possible
monarchy and equitable grounds and they are taken through the profit
portions of the addition of decrease were defeated. This order of the
community was not party to approve the cooperative and had no less than
the opponents will be imposed. Caesar's own position was now in some
sense more vulnerable than before the victory, but what he lost,
won the state. By destroying the parties and not just Parteimaenner
spared, but every man of talent, or even of a good home, regardless of
its political past, let go to offices, he won not only for his
great works in the state of all available manpower, but the voluntary
or forced creations of men of all parties on the same works also
led imperceptibly across the nation on the neubereiteten ground.

If this adjustment of the parties for the eyes only outer-click
nature was and is the same for much less now in the trailer to the new
conditions as encountered in the Hasse against Caesar, this is so wrong
it does not, he knew it well, but that the contrasts in Outside
of such association is dull and that only in this way, the statesman of
the time vorarbeitet, which, naturally, alone, such a rag finally to atone,
by the old sex sets into the grave.

Even less, he asked who hated him or thought murder against him.

Like every true statesman, he served the people not to pay, whether or
not the wages of his love, but had the favor of contemporaries out
for the blessing of the future and especially for the permit, save
and nation were to be allowed to rejuvenate. ---
------------------------------------------------ ^ 3 Who old and
new Schriftstellerbedraengnisse wish to compare, in the letters of
Caecina (Cic. ad fam. 6, 7) the opportunity to find. ---------------------
------------------------------- Try our accountability to each of
the transfer of the old states in the new railway, so it should be
remembered that Caesar was not to begin, but to complete.

The plan to-date policy, length of Gaius Gracchus designed, was of
his followers and successors with probably more or less spirit and
luck, but without wavering been detained.

Caesar, out of the box and at the same time after the head of
the inheritance Popular Party, had been thirty years whose shield
held high up, without ever having to change the color or even just to
cover, he remained a democrat as monarch. As the inheritance of his
party, apart of course from the catilinarischen and clodischen
wrong, unlimited replayability, the aristocracy and the true
aristocrats the most bitter, even personal hatred and pays tribute
to the essential idea of the Roman democracy: the alleviation of
the situation of the debtor, the overseas colonization , the gradual
leveling of the classes of nationals of the existing legal dispute,
the emancipation of the executive power by the Senate, maintained
unchanged, as was also his monarchy with so little of democracy in
conflict, rather it only by those to the completion and fulfillment
came.

That monarchy was not the oriental despotism by the grace of God,
but the monarchy, as Gaius Gracchus grounds they wanted, such as
Pericles and Cromwell they founded: the representation of the nation
through its highest and full of confidence man.

It was thus thought that the reason for Caesar's works were not
actually new, but it belongs to its realization, the last is the main
thing everywhere, and it Grossheit the design, even the ingenious
designer, they would have if he can look , surprised and want to
have anyone living in the reality or in the mirror of history is
challenged, what historical era and the political color he ever a
member, depending on the extent of his version of human force and
size with deep historical and move deeper and admiration has taken
and will take forever.

But it is precisely at the places here that is what the historians
everywhere tacitly presupposes once expressed opposition to demand and
to do against the perfidy of simplicity and common usage, history of
praise and blame history, of the given conditions which, as generally
valid phrase to consume, in this case the verdict on Caesar in a verdict
on the so-called Caesarismus reinterpret it. Admittedly, the history of
past centuries, the teacher of his ongoing, but not in the general sense,
as could present the trends in reports over the past simply
wiederaufblaettern and from the same political Rezeptierkunst diagnosis
and the symptoms and specifics read together; lehrhaft but it is only
insofar as the observation of the older cultures, the organic conditions
of civilization at all, the Grundkraefte same everywhere and everywhere
different composition revealed the same and instead of mindless imitation
rather Nachschoepfen guide to independent and enthusiastic. In this
sense, the history of the Roman Caesars and Caesarentums, with all the
unmatched Grossheit Werkmeister, despite all historical necessity
of the work, truly a sharper critique of modern autocracy than a human
hand to write the interview. Under the same law of nature, so the
lowest organism is infinitely more artistic than the machine that is
even the defective constitution, the self-determination of a majority
of citizens leeway, infinitely more than the most ingenious and humane
absolutism, because that is the development capable, so alive, this is
what he's so dead, this natural law has also participated in the Roman
Militaermonarchie absolute and proved just as fully proved, when, under
the great impulse of its creator and in the absence of any significant
complications with abroad, is pure and free than any similar state
has made. From Caesar held on how the later books that explain and
Gibbon longer it has pointed out, the Roman beings only appear
together, and was only mechanically expanded, while it is internally
with him completely withered and abstarb. If in the early days of
autocracy, and especially in Caesar's own soul or the hopeful dream
of a free association of people development and administration of absolute
dominion, as the regiment has already gifted the emperor of the Julian sex
in terrible manner taught, how it is possible, fire and water in the
same vessel to act. Caesar's work was necessary and salutary, not because
it was a blessing in itself, or even could bring, but because, in
the ancient, built on Sklavenrum by the Republican-constitutional
representation completely opposite people organization and against
the legitimate in the development of half a millennium to the
oligarchic absolutism ripened city constitution, the absolute
Militaermonarchie the logical and necessary conclusion Stein was
the lesser of two evils.

Once in Virginia and the Carolinas, the slaveholder aristocracy it this
far will have their choice of relatives in the sullanischen Rome, so
there is also the Caesarismus before the spirit of history legitimacy
^ 4, where he among other Entwicklungsverhaeltnissen occurs, he is also a
grimace and a usurpation.

The history but will not be modest, the right to honor Caesar, therefore,
to reduce, because such a slogan against the bad Caesare mistaken about
the simplicity and the wickedness of lies and deceit opportunity can
give. She is also a Bible, and if they are so little like this, neither
the gates it can be misinterpreted defend, nor the devil they
quote, so will they be able to endure both like poison. ------
----------------------------------------------- As a ^ 4 This was
written in 1857, they could not yet know how soon the violent
struggle and the most splendid victory, which the history of the
human race has so far recorded, the same sample spared this terrible
and its future of the imperative, not by focal Caesarismus on thee
life itself dominant inhibitory freedom should be secured.
-------------------------------------- ---------------- The position
of the new government formally head appears, initially at least,
as a dictatorship.

Caesar took the same after the first return from Spain in the year 705
(49), but after she laid down again a few days and led the decisive campaign
of the year 706 (48) merely as a Consul - it was the office on his first
clothing civil war had broken out.

But this autumn, after the Pharsalischen battle, he came back to dictatorship
and back again the same could be transferred to first for an indefinite
period, but from 1 January 709 (45) than Jahresamt, then in January or
February 710 ^ 5 (44) on the duration of his life so that he reserved
the earlier resignation of the Office expressly finally dropped and the
Life of the Office in the new title dictator perpetuus gave formal expression.
This dictatorship, whether that first ephemeral as the second constant
is not the old constitution, but only in the name of this coinciding
with the highest Ausnahmeamt by the atomic Sullas; an office,
whose competence is not the constitutional order in respect of the
maximum Einzelamt, but by special referendum deadline was established
in the meantime that the holder of the contract, to design laws and
the community to arrange a full legal, the Republican division of the
contradictory forces of the official delegation received. There are
only applications of this general power on the individual case,
if the rulers without questioning the right of the Senate and the
people about war and peace to decide the autonomy over armies and
funds, the appointment of the provincial governor after by special
Act were transferred .

Even such powers, which outside of the magistrates, and indeed outside the
competence of state authority over all beaten, could Caesar hereafter by
law to settle, and it appears almost as a concession for its
part, that he refrained from the Magistrate instead of Komitien to appoint
and were limited for some of the praetor and the lower magistrates
propose a binding contract, that he is also to come over after all
is not liable creation of patricians nor specific conclusions empower
people left. ------- ------------------------------------------------
^ 5 On 26 January 710; 44) called Caesar dictator still IIII
(Triumphaltafel); 25 February of the year, he was already dictator
perpetuus (Cic.

Phil 2, 34, 87). See Roman Law, Volume 2, 3 Aufl. S. 726th
---------------------------------------------- --------- For all
other posts in the strict sense is not a dictatorship, in addition
to this space.

         Censorship, as such, has not
          Caesar ^ 6, but the
          censors rights, including the important appointment of the senator
in a comprehensive manner practiced. -----------------------
------------------------ ^ 6 The wording of that dictatorship seems
the "moral improvement" expressly mithervorgehoben to have a separate
office but such has not dressed Caesar ( Roman Constitutional Law,
Vol 2, 3rd edition, p. 705). ---------------------------------
-------------- The Consulate has often next to the dictatorship,
without even once dressed colleagues, but not permanently attached
to his person and calls on the same five or even ten years after
each other take over, where no further.

The supreme supervision over the cult of Caesar needed not only to be
transferred, since he was already Oberpontifex. It is understood that the
membership of the Augurnkollegiums was given to him and about all the
old and new rights in abundant honor, as the title of Father of
the Fatherland, the designation of his birth month with the name
that he now leads, the Julius, and others, least in flat idolatry
to end manifestations of incipient Hoftons.

Emphasized to earn only two institutions: that Caesar the tribunes
of the people especially in their particular personal inviolability
treated and that the emperor appointed permanently attached to his
person and in addition to other official designations of him as a
title run was ^ 7 ------ --------------------------------------------------
^ 7 ---------- Caesar leads the title Imperator Iterationsziffer
without always and always behind the name in the first place (Roman
Constitutional Law, Vol 2, 3rd edition, p. 767, A. 1).
-------------------------------------------------- ----------------
For the there will be no need to get proof that Caesar intended to
force the highest character to the community, not only to a few
years or even as a personal office for an indefinite period, such
as Sullas regency, but as an essential and permanent institution,
nor even that he for the new institution and a simple description
ausersah, because if it is a political mistake, inhaltlose name to
create, so it is hardly lower the content of the Machtfuelle are
added without a name.

Only it is admittedly, partly because in this transition period,
the ephemeral and the permanent buildings are not clearly separated
but, partly because the Winke already courteous Devotion of the clients
with the Lord without a doubt himself odious decrees abundant trust and
honor laws overwhelmed, not easily identify definitive formulation in the
sense Caesar had. At least the new monarchy was able to pick up the
consulate, already because of this post is not too divisive collegiality,
it has also sought in Caesar seem that so far the highest office to
reduce the empty title and later when he took over, not the same run
throughout the year, but before the expiration of people have
second-class. The dictatorship is virtually certain and most clear,
but probably only because Caesar as they wanted to use what they think
of ancient times in the Constitution means organism was as extraordinary
executive to overcome extraordinary crises. As a wearer of the
new monarchy, on the other hand they are not recommended because
Exzeptionalitaet unpopularity and once this office and attach it to the
representatives of democracy hardly be believed, that form the most
ingenious Vorfechter of the opposite party for its use had created,
for the permanent organization choose.
Neither did our friends enjoy it so much as the Church of the Jesuits,
with its more than tolerable painting, its coldly frescoed ceiling, its
architectural taste of subdued Renaissance, and its black-eyed
peasant-girl telling her beads before a side altar, just as in the
enviably deplorable countries we all love; nor so much even as the Irish
cathedral which they next visited. That is a very gorgeous cathedral
indeed, painted and gilded 'a merveille', and everywhere stuck about with
big and little saints and crucifixes, and pictures incredibly bad--but
for those in the French cathedral. There is, of course, a series
representing Christ's progress to Calvary; and there was a very tattered
old man,--an old man whose voice had been long ago drowned in whiskey,
and who now spoke in a ghostly whisper,--who, when he saw Basil's eye
fall upon the series, made him go the round of them, and tediously
explained them.

"Why did you let that old wretch bore you, and then pay him for it?"
Isabel asked.

"O, it reminded me so sweetly of the swindles of other lands and days,
that I couldn't help it," he answered; and straightway in the eyes of
both that poor, whiskeyfied, Irish tatterdemalion stood transfigured to
the glorious likeness of an Italian beggar.

They were always doing something of this kind, those absurdly sentimental
people, whom yet I cannot find it in my heart to blame for their folly,
though I could name ever so many reasons for rebuking it. Why, in fact,
should we wish to find America like Europe? Are the ruins and impostures
and miseries and superstitions which beset the traveller abroad so
precious, that he should desire to imagine them at every step in his own
hemisphere? Or have we then of our own no effective shapes of ignorance
and want and incredibility, that we must forever seek an alien contrast
to our native intelligence and comfort? Some such questions this guilty
couple put to each other, and then drove off to visit the convent of the
Gray Nuns with a joyful expectation which I suppose the prospect of the
finest public-school exhibition in Boston could never have inspired. But,
indeed, since there must be Gray Nuns, is it not well that there are
sentimentalists to take a mournful pleasure in their sad, pallid
existence?

The convent is at a good distance from the Irish cathedral, and in going
to it the tourists made their driver carry them through one of the few
old French streets which still remain in Montreal. Fires and improvements
had made havoc among the quaint horses since Basil's first visit; but at
last they came upon a narrow, ancient Rue Saint Antoine,--or whatever
other saint it was called after,--in which there was no English face or
house to be seen. The doors of the little one-story dwellings opened from
the pavement, and within you saw fat madame the mother moving about her
domestic affairs, and spare monsieur the elderly husband smoking beside
the open window; French babies crawled about the tidy floors; French
martyrs (let us believe Lalement or Brebeuf, who gave up their heroic
lives for the conversion of Canada) sifted their eyes in high-colored
lithographs on the wall; among the flower-pots in the dormer-window
looking from every tin roof sat and sewed a smooth haired young girl, I
hope,--the romance of each little mansion. The antique and foreign
character of the place was accented by the inscription upon a wall of
"Sirop adoucissant de Madame Winslow."

Ever since 1692 the Gray Nuns have made refuge within the ample borders
of their convent for infirm old people and for foundling children, and it
is now in the regular course of sight-seeing for the traveller to visit
their hospital at noonday, when he beholds the Sisters at their devotions
in the chapel. It is a bare, white-walled, cold-looking chapel, with the
usual paraphernalia of pictures and crucifixes. Seated upon low benches
on either side of the aisle were the curious or the devout; the former in
greater number and chiefly Americans, who were now and then whispered
silent by an old pauper zealous for the sanctity of the place. At the
stroke of twelve the Sisters entered two by two, followed by the
lady-superior with a prayerbook in her hand. She clapped the leaves of
this together in signal for them to kneel, to rise, to kneel again and
rise, while they repeated in rather harsh voices their prayers, and then
clattered out of the chapel as they had clattered in, with resounding
shoes. The two young girls at the head were very pretty, and all the pale
faces had a corpse-like peace. As Basil looked at their pensive sameness,
it seemed to him that those prettiest girls might very well be the twain
that he had seen here so many years ago, stricken forever young in their
joyless beauty. The ungraceful gowns of coarse gray, the blue checked
aprons, the black crape caps, were the same; they came and went with the
same quick tread, touching their brows with holy water and kneeling and
rising now as then with the same constrained and ordered movements. Would
it be too cruel if they were really the same persons? or would it be yet
more cruel if every year two girls so young and fair were self-doomed to
renew the likeness of that youthful death?

The visitors went about the hospital, and saw the old men and the little
children to whom these good pure lives were given, and they could only
blame the system, not the instruments or their work. Perhaps they did not
judge wisely of the amount of self-sacrifice involved, for they judged
from hearts to which love was the whole of earth and heaven; but
nevertheless they pitied the Gray Nuns amidst the unhomelike comfort of
their convent, the unnatural care of those alien little ones. Poor
'Soeurs Grises' in their narrow cells; at the bedside of sickness and age
and sorrow; kneeling with clasped hands and yearning eyes before the
bloody spectacle of the cross!--the power of your Church is shown far
more subtly and mightily in such as you, than in her grandest fanes or
the sight of her most august ceremonies, with praying priests, swinging
censers, tapers and pictures and images, under a gloomy heaven of
cathedral arches. There, indeed, the faithful have given their substance;
but here the nun has given up the most precious part of her woman's
nature, and all the tenderness that clings about the thought of wife and
mother.

The most prominent among these were emirs Abgaros, the chief of the Arab
tribe of Mardan, the Tigran to Edessa and Karrhae located in upper
Mesopotamia was then west of the Euphrates Sampsikeramos, Emir of the
Arabs of Hemesa (Homs) between Damaskos and Antiocheia and Lord of the
strong fortress Arethusa; Azizos, the head of another, in the same area
grazing Horde; Alchaudonios which the Fuerst Rhambaeer, already with
Lucullus in conjunction had set, and more. Alongside these were everywhere
Beduinenfuersten brazen Gesellen occurred to allow the children of the
desert in the noble profession in the storage means the same or even
zuvortaten: so Ptolemaeos Mennaeos' son, perhaps the most powerful among
these Syrian robber barons, and one of the richest men of the period of
about the territory of the Ityraeer - The Druze today - in the
valleys of the Libanos like on the coast and the northern Marsyasebene
this with the cities of Heliopolis (Baalbek), and bade Chalkis and 8000
riders are paid out of his pocket, so Dionaysios and Kinyras, the lords
of the Seestaedte Tripoli (Tarablus) and Byblos (between Tarablus and
Beirut), so the Jew Silas in Lysias, a fortress on the Orontes near Apameia.
In the south of Syria on the other hand, seemed the root of the
Jews by this time become a political power to try to consolidate. Through
the pious and kuehne defense of the ancient Jewish National Culture, the
leveling of Hellenism threatened the Syrian kings, was the sex of
Hasmonaeer or Makkabi not just to the hereditary principal and gradually
come to royal honor, but it also had the princely high priest after
conquering the north , east and south to be plucked.

As the valiant died Jannaeos Alexandros (675 79) ran against the
Jewish kingdom of the south over the whole area philistaeische to the
Egyptian border, to the southeast to the Nabataeerreiches of Petra, from
which Jannaeos considerable distances on the right bank of the
Jordan and the Dead Sea was demolished, to the north through Samaria
and Decapolis to the Sea of Galilee, he has made here Anstalt,
Ptolemais (Acco) and to the abuses of Ityraeer conquering rejected.

The Jews obeyed coast from Mount Caramel to Rhinokorura with Gaza, including
the key - only Askalon was still free - so that the once nearly isolated
from the sea area of Jews now under Freistaetten piracy could be
listed.

It would probably have, especially since the Armenian storm, just
as he was approaching the limits Judaeas by Lucullus' Dazwischenkunft
of this landscape was averted, the ruler of the talented house
Hasmonaeischen their weapons yet been worn, if not the power of
this strange development, conquering priest by State internal
divisions in the germ would have been broken.

The denominational and national Unabhaengigkeitssinn whose energetic
Makkabaeerstaat the association launched had occurred rapidly
again, and even against each other.

The Jewish orthodoxy, or the so-called Pharisaeismus sufficient to free
Religionsuebung as the Syrian rulers abgetrotzt was, their practical aim
was one of the secular regiment much refrain from Orthodox countries
in all corners of composite Jewish community, which in any conscientious
Jews incumbent tax for the temple in Jerusalem and in the religious
schools and courts of their spiritual association points was visible.

This life of the state turn away more and more in theological thoughtlessness
and embarrassed Zeremonialdienst solidification against orthodoxy were the
representatives of national independence, strengthening in the lucky battles
against foreign domination, vorschreitend to the idea of restoring
the Jewish state, the representatives of the old great sex, the
so-called Sadducees, sometimes dogmatic, it is only the sacred books
themselves are left and the legacies of the scribes, that is the
canonical tradition, only authority, not Kanonizitaet zusprachen ^
2; sometimes, and especially political, rather than by the fatalistic
wait on the strong arm of the Lord Zebaoth the salvation of the
nation expected taught by the weapons of this world and the internal
and external strengthening of the glorious kingdom of David
Makkabaeerzeiten wiederaufgerichteten.

Those Orthodox found their grip in the priesthood and the crowd, they deny
the legitimacy of their Hasmonaeern the high priesthood and challenged
against the evil heretics with the whole irreconcilability ruthless,
which the devout for the possession of earthly goods are accustomed
to fighting.

The State party on the other hand, relied on by the influences of Hellenism
touched intelligence on the army, where many pisidische and Cilician
Soeldner served, and the stalwart kings, with which the church
wrestled violence, like a millennium later with the Hohenstaufen
the papacy.

With a strong hand had Jannaeos the priesthood held down, under his two
sons were (685f. 69) to a citizen and brother of war by the Pharisees
is a hefty Aristobulos resisted and tried, under the nominal rule
of his brother, the good-natured and flaccid Hyrkanos , to achieve
their purposes.

This quarrel was not merely the Jewish conquests faltered, but was
also an opportunity Foreign Nations, and thereby become involved
in southern Syria in a territorial position to win.

First, this is the Nabataeans. This nation is often strange, with its eastern
neighbors, the tail of the Arabs, have been thrown together, but
closer than the actual children of Ishmael, it is the Aramaic
branches related.

This Aramaic or, after the designation of the occidental, Syrian tribe
needs of its oldest seats to Babylon, probably because of the
trade, at very early time a colony on the northern tip of the Arabian
Gulf have executed: these are the Nabataeans in the Sinai Peninsula
between the tables Gulf of Suez and Aila and in the region of Petra
(Wadi Musa).

In their ports, the goods from the Mediterranean Sea against Indian
implemented, the major southern road caravan, which Euphratmuendung
and Gaza to the Persian Gulf ran, ran through the capital of the
Nabataeans Petra, which is still magnificent Felspalaeste and
Felsengraeber clearer testimony of the Nabataean civilization store
than the almost lost tradition.

The Pharisaeerfuehrer which Priesterart after the victory of their
party at the price of independence and integrity of the country not
to be bought seemed expensive, requested the king of the Nabataeans,
Aretas, for help against Aristobulos what they are all snatched him
from Jannaeos conquests in return promised him .

Subsequently Aretas was allegedly with 50,000 men in the Jewish country
and indented, reinforced by the Annex to the Pharisees, he held the king
Aristobulos besieged in his capital. -------------------
---------------------------------- ^ 2 So the Sadducees denied the
angels and spirits and teaching the resurrection of the dead . Most
traditional difference between Pharisees and Sadducees relate to minor
ritual, legal, and calendar issues. Characteristic is that the victors
of those Pharisees days on which they are in the various controversies
definitely the upper hand or the heretical Oberkonsistorium members
were expelled in the list of commemoration and festivities of the nation
have entered. ------ --------------------------------------------- Under
the thumb and feud right, ie from one end of Syria on the other prevailed,
of course, suffered especially the larger cities, such as Antiocheia,
Seleukeia, Damaskos whose citizens in their farming as in their maritime
and caravan trade that saw paralyzed. The citizens of Byblos and Berytos
(Beirut) could neither fields nor their ships to protect the Ityraeern
exempt from their mountain and Seekastellen from land and sea made the
same uncertain. The Damaskos examined the attacks of Ityraeer
and thereby Ptolemaeos to help that they are distant from the kings
of the Nabataeans and the Jews to their own tasks.

     In Antiocheia are mixed Sampsikeramos
     and Azizos in the internal feuds of the residents and would be
almost the Hellenic city already the seat of an Arab Emir become.

There were conditions attached to the koenig countless times reminiscent
of the German Middle Ages, as Nuremberg and Augsburg in the Koenigs law
and court, but only in its walls still get protection; impatient wait
on the Syrian citizens buying arm of the powerful, the road to peace and
reproduced. On a legitimate Koenig Moreover, no it is not in Syria,
one of which had even two or three. Antiochos A prince from the house
of the Seleucids was Lucullus as the lord of the northern Syrian
province comma genes have been used, the Asiate Antiochos, whose claims
to the Syrian throne, both in the Senate than for Lucullus had been
recognized, after the departure of the Armenians in Antiocheia and daselbst
been recognized as king. He was there once, a third Seleukidenprinz,
Philippos, as opposed rival, and it was great, almost like the
Alexandrian American opposition funny and moving residents from
Antiocheia and this and that neighboring Arab Emir is involved in
the family quarrel, which is now one of the reign of Seleucids
seemed inseparable.

Was it any wonder that the legitimacy of the subjects for the scorn and
disgust, and that was the so-called legitimate kings still somewhat less
in the country were considered the young princes and knights?

In this chaos in order, it required neither genius nor conceptions huge
power development but the clear insight into the interests of Rome
and of his subjects, and the strong and consistent right-erection
and maintenance of a need recognized institutions.

The Legitimitaetspolitik the Senate had enough prostituted, the commander,
which the opposition brought to the regiment, were not allowed
dynastic considerations guide, but he had only pointed to see that
the Syrian empire in the future either by the strife Praetendenten
nor the desire of neighbors the Roman clientele will be withdrawn.

This, however, there was only one way: that the Roman community by one of
their satraps sent with a powerful hand the reins of government
covers the reigning kings of the house even more so through their
own debt as an accident caused by external long entglitten actually
were.

The way suggested Pompey On. Antiochos of Asiate was on his request, he
is the rightful ruler of Syria to recognize the answer, that Pompey
a king of his kingdom not to say nor to govern know that not even
rule on the request of his subjects , let alone against their
expressed wishes certainly will return.

With this letter of the Roman proconsul was the home of the Seleukos
rise from the throne, since it had received zweihundertfuenfzig
years.

Antiochos and soon thereafter lost his life through the deceitfulness of
the Emir Sampsikeramos, as its client in Antiocheia he played the Lord,
since this is the shadow of kings and their rights are not further
mentioned.

However, it was to the new Roman regiment should be justified and a
passable sort out the confused relationships to bring even more necessary,
with military power in Syria and all the einzuruecken Stoere of
peaceful order, during the vieljaehrigen anarchy emporgewachsen were,
by the Roman legions to shrink or prostrate. Already during the campaigns
in the Pontic rich Caucasus and Pompey had the affairs of Syria turned
his attention, and individual officers and departments where it
did not leave to intervene.

Aulus Gabinius - the same, as Volkstribun Pompey to the East had sent -
was 689 (65) in the Tigris River and then across Mesopotamia to Syria,
marched to the complicated relationships in the Jewish country simple.
Equally difficult was the Damaskos already beleaguered by Lollius
and Metellus been filled.

Soon afterwards met another aide of Pompey, Marcus Scaurus in Judaea,
to the ever new again daselbst settle feuds erupting.

Even Lucius Afrianus, while the Pompey 'expedition to the Caucasus, the
command over the Roman troops in Armenia led, had Korduene from (the
northern Kurdistan) from in the upper Mesopotamia and go after it through
the helpful participation of the Hellenes in Karrhae based the dangerous
journey through the desert was happy to go, the Arabs in Osrhoene to
Botmaessigkeit brought.

Towards the end of the year 690 (64), then reached Pompey in Syria itself
to ^ 3 and stayed there until the summer of the following year,
decisive and determined for now and in future the ratio ordering.

Back to the states of the empire in the better times of
Seleukidenherrschaft, all usurpierten forces are removed, the pirate
lords to their castles over to the Arab sheiks again on their
Wuestengebiet limited, the ratio of the individual municipalities
definitely regulated.

These commands strict obedience to them the legions stood ready, and
her intervention was particularly against the daring robber barons than
necessary. Silas, the Lord of Lysias, the Lord of Tripoli, Dionysios, the
Lord of Byblos, Kinyras, in their castles were captured and executed,
the mountain and Seeschloesser the Ityraeer broken Ptolemaeos Mennaeos'
son in Chalkis forced with 1000 talents ( 1827000 thalers) ransom freedom
and domination buying. In the other were the commands of the new power
Habers mostly withstood countless obedience. Only the Jews have fluctuated.
The former Pompey sent by brokers, and Gabinius Scaurus had - both
as it is, with significant sums of bribe - the disputes of the two
brothers Hyrkanos and Aristobulos in favor of the latter decision, even
the king Aretas adopt the siege of Jerusalem and to in his home to go
to, where he was on his way back from yet Aristobulos suffered a
defeat. But when Pompey arrived in Syria, he collects the orders of
his subordinates and rejected the Jews to their ancient high priest
constitution, as the Senate it to 593 (61) was recognized, and
re-established as in the principality itself, so also to all of the
Hasmonaeischen Fuersten made to renounce conquests. There were the
Pharisees, which consist of a legation of two hundred of its most respected
men in the Roman commander and sent him from the overthrow of the kingdom
have had, not to the benefit of their own nation, but probably by
the Romans, the nature of the matter here too had to come back to
the old rights of the Seleucids, and a conquering power, as the
Jannaeos was within their empire could not tolerate.

It would be a pity, however, if it should be parted from the parent
country merely to be joined to an unsympathetic half-brother like
ourselves and nothing, fortunately, seems to be further from the Canadian
mind. There are some experiments no longer possible to us which could
still be tried there to the advantage of civilization, and we were better
two great nations side by side than a union of discordant traditions and
ideas. But none the less does the American traveller, swelling with
forgetfulness of the shabby despots who govern New York, and the
swindling railroad kings whose word is law to the whole land, feel like
saying to the hulling young giant beyond St. Lawrence and the Lakes,
"Sever the apron-strings of allegiance, and try to be yourself whatever
you are."

Something of this sort Basil said, though of course not in apostrophic
phrase, nor with Isabel's entire concurrence, when he explained to her
that it was to the colonial dependence of Canada she owed the ability to
buy things so cheaply there.

The fact is that the ladies' parlor at the hotel had been after dinner no
better than a den of smugglers, in which the fair contrabandists had
debated the best means of evading the laws of their country. At heart
every man is a smuggler, and how much more every woman! She would have no
scruple in ruining the silk and woolen interest throughout the United
States. She is a free-trader by intuitive perception of right, and is
limited in practice by nothing but fear of the statute. What could be
taken into the States without detection, was the subject before that
wicked conclave; and next, what it would pay to buy in Canada. It seemed
that silk umbrellas were most eligible wares; and in the display of such
purchases the parlor was given the appearance of a violent thunder-storm.
Gloves it was not advisable to get; they were better at home, as were
many kinds of fine woolen goods. But laces, which you could carry about
you, were excellent; and so was any kind of silk. Could it be carried if
simply cut, and not made up? He joined after that unfortunate skirmishes
on the withdrawal of Apollonia. Pompey followed. The march of Apollonia
on Dyrrhachion after a difficult, several rivers cut through road
was not an easy task for a defeated and pursued by the enemy army,
however, the skillful leadership of their commander and the soldiers
marching indestructible urged Pompey after four-tracking, the same set
as useless . He had now to decide between the Italian expedition and
the march into the inland country, and so tempting raetlich and even
those seemed to also get some votes are collected, but he withdrew it
before the Corps of Scipio not to disclose, the more when he was by
this march of the Calvinus into the hands hoping to get. Calvinus
was instantly on the road at Egnatischen Herakleia Lynkestis between
Pompey and Scipio, and, after Caesar Apollonia to retreat from that
further away than the large army of Pompey, to do anything without the
knowledge of the operations at Dyrrhachion and his concern situation, since
after the successes obtained in Dyrrhachion the whole landscape is
tilted to Pompey and Caesar's messenger have been anywhere. Only when the
enemy's main power up to a few hours had approached him, Calvinus
learned from the stories of the enemy outpost even the state of
things.

A quick departure in a southerly direction to Thessaly against him
withdrew at the last moment of impending destruction, Pompey had to be
content Scipio from his position threatened to have liberated.
Caesar was now unchallenged after Apollonia arrives. Immediately after
the disaster of Dyrrhachion he had decided, if possible the fight away
from the coast into the inland areas to relocate to the final cause of the
failure of his efforts, the enemy's fleet, from the game to bring. The
march to Apollonia had only had the purpose, where its deposits are found,
its wounded to safety and to bring his soldiers to pay the Loehnung; and
this had happened, he, with survivors from crews in Apollonia, Orikon
and Lissos according to Thessaly. After Thessaly also had the Corps
of Calvinus is set in motion, and from Italy, now on the land by Illyria,
move reinforcements, two legions under Quintus Cornificius, he could
also be easier here than in Epirus to rise. On difficult trails in
the valley of the Aoos aufwaertssteigend and the mountain chain, in the
Epirus Thessaly's divorce, he came to the Peneios; ebendorthin Calvinus
was conducted and the unification of the two armies so on the shortest
and the least exposed to the enemy means accomplished.

It was at Aeginion near the source of the Peneios. The first city
of Thessaly, in the now united army appeared Gomphoi, closed its doors,
it was quickly stormed and plundered the price, and thereby geschreckt
subdued the other cities of Thessaly, and at Caesar's legions before
the walls are shown.

About these marches and battles, and with the help of the, if not
allzureichlichen, inventories, the landscape at Peneios darbot, gradually
disappeared and the traces of the memories over the ill-fated days. Direct
Fruechte So had the victory of the winners for Dyrrhachion not
take many .

Pompey, with its burdensome army and its numerous cavalry, had the enemy
moving into the mountains to follow failed, as Caesar had Calvinus the
prosecution is withdrawn and the two were united and in full safety
in Thessaly. Perhaps it would have been correct when Pompey now easily
compete with its main power-to-ship would have gone to Italy, where
the success was hardly doubtful.

However, temporarily fell only a department of the fleet to Sicily and
Italy. We looked in the camp of the coalition by the battle of Dyrrhachion
the case with Caesar as so completely decided that it was only the
fruits of victory to harvest, ie, the beaten army and kept cushion.

In place of the former was an over-restraint by the circumstances
even less justifiable high spirits, you do not watch that in the
prosecution failed but in fact was that we had taken hold, in
Thessaly on a completely refreshed and reorganized to meet Army and
that it is no small concern was removing itself from the seas and
to renounce support of the fleet, the enemy of him on the battlefield
chosen to follow.

It was precisely determined at any price with Caesar to beat and
that's why as soon as possible and at the most convenient way to
come to him.

Cato took over the command in Dyrrhachion, where a crew of eighteen
cohorts, and Corfu, where 300 warships behind: Pompey and Scipio
went, it seems that the road to Pella Egnatische and then the great
road to drive south, from this Haliakmon through the passes of Mount
Olympus, to the lower Peneios and met together at Larisa.

Caesar stood south of them in the plain, between the hills of
Kynoskephalae and Othrysgebirge spreads and the tributary of the
Peneios, the Enipeus, is passing through on the left bank in the
same city Pharsalos; against him on the right bank of the Enipeus
slope of the heights of Kynoskephalae, Pompey beat his camp ^ 6
Pompeius' army was completely together, Caesar still awaited on the
other hand, the earlier according Aetolien and Thessaly detached,
now under Quintus Fufius Calenus in Greece standing corps of nearly
two legions, and on the route from Italy nachgesandten him and has
already arrived in Illyria two legions of Cornificius .

Pompeius' army, eleven legions, or 47,000 men and 7000 horses strong, was
the Caesar of people walk more than doubled, to riding around the basket
seven times over; strains and Caesar's troops were fighting so
decimated that his eight legions not over 22000 men under the arms,
so far half of the normal inventory counts.

Pompey 'triumphant, with a numerous cavalry and good magazines to send army
had food in abundance, while Caesar's troops are rough and only hinhielten
not far from the grain harvest expected better meals. The mood of
Pompeianischen soldiers, who in the last campaign, the war know and trust
their leader had learned, was the best. All spoke on military reasons
Pompey 'side for now because once in Thessaly against Caesar standing
battle with the decision not to hesitate long, and probably more so than
those weighed in the War Emigrantenungeduld of the many officers and make
Heerbegleiter. Since the events of these gentlemen Dyrrhachion saw
the triumph of their party as a certainty fact, was already on the
eagerly gehadert cast of Caesars Oberpontifikat and orders sent to Rome
in order for the next legislative houses on the market for rent. As concerns
Pompey showed the river, both armies retired and Caesar, with its much
weaker army to happen not dared to exceed itself, this aroused great
indignation; Pompey, it was called, only hesitate with the battle for
a little longer about as many CONSULAR Praetorier and to reduce and
to perpetuate his Agamemnonrolle. Pompey were after, and Caesar,
in the opinion that it is not the fight will come, just to circumvent
the hostile army, and had designed to break in against Skotussa term
was also ordered his legions to battle, as he is preparing Pompeianer
saw them at his bank to offer him.

So was almost on the same Walstatt where hundertfuenfzig years before the
Romans their domination in the East was founded on 9 August 706 (48)
the battle of Pharsalos beaten. Pompey rejected the right wing to the
Enipeus, Caesar against him on the left at the front of the spreading
Enipeus passing through terrain, and the other two stood in the
wings level out, both covered by the cavalry and light troops. Pompey
'intention was that his foot in the popular defense to keep with his cavalry
on the other hand, the weak crowd of horsemen, which, according
to the German way with light infantry mixed, stood over against her,
and then to zersprengen Caesar right wing in the back to take. His foot
was the first nation kick the enemy infantry bravely and it came from
the battle to stand here.

Labienus also sprinkled the enemy's cavalry after brave, but recently
resistance apart and developed linkshin to people walking around. But
Caesar, the defeat of his cavalry ahead of seeing behind her had
threatened on the flank his right wing about 2000 of his best legionaries
up. As the enemy's horsemen, the Caesars before hertreibend, approached
and hunted down the line, it suddenly crashed on the move against
them intrepidly core crowd and, through the unexpected and unfamiliar
^ 7 infantry attack quickly brought into confusion, blasted them
with reins imposed by battlefield.

The victorious legionaries cut the price given protect enemy together,
then moved to the left wing of the enemy and began going on now turn
its circumvention. At the same time Caesar went so far zurueckgehaltenes
third meeting on the line before the attack. The unexpected
defeat of the best weapon of Pompeianischen army, as they have the
courage of the opponents raised, broke the army and especially the field
of the Lord. As Pompey, the people of his foot house does not trust the
riders zurueckjagen saw, he immediately rode from the battlefield back
into the camp without even the outcome of a total of Caesar ordered
attack to be seen. His legions began to fluctuate, and soon over the
brook in the camp retreat, which is not without serious loss was
accomplished. The day was lost, and some brave fallen soldier, the army,
however, still largely intact and Pompey 'situation far less serious
than the Caesar after the defeat of Dyrrhachion. But when Caesar in his
fortunes Wechselfaellen it had learned that the lucky his favorites
seem to be moments away loved, through perseverance of them again
to be defeated, so the lucky Pompey knew then only as a constant
and desperate Goddess itself, and to her as she escaped him, and
if Caesar's great despair only natural potent forces ever developed,
it sank Pompey 'poor soul under the same pressure in the soil-less
abyss of Kuemmerlichkeit.

As he was once in the war with Sertorius in the term had been entrusted
to the office in stitches before leaving about losing to opponents
and to go like this, so he is now, because it is the legions over the river
zurueckweichen saw the disastrous Feldherrnschaerpe by himself and rode
on the road next to the sea, where a ship to search. His army, disheartened
and rudderless - because Scipio, although as a colleague of Pompey in the
High Command acknowledged it was in name only Oberfeld Mr. -, behind the
Lagerwaellen hoped to find protection, but it does not allow Caesar
Rast: soon, the stubborn resistance of the Roman Thracian camp and
overpowered guards and forced the mass, in the hills of disorder
Krannon and Skotussa hinaufzuziehen at whose foot the camp was
beaten.

She tried to capitalize on these hills continue moving Larisa wiederzuerreichen
alone Caesars troops, neither the prey nor the fatigue respecting and
better ways to level springing relocated the volatile way, so, as the
late evening Pompeianer terminated its march, it could still their pursuers,
a Schanz line to draw the volatile access to the only nearby Bach sealed.
So ends the day of Pharsalos. The enemy's army was not merely beaten, but
destroyed. 15000 of the enemies were dead or wounded on the battlefield,
while the Caesarianer only 200 men missing, the remaining mass still
together, still against 20,000 men, stretched out on the morning after
the battle, the weapons; only individual teams, including of course the
most famous officers, looking for a refuge in the mountains, of
the eleven, nine enemy eagles brought over Caesar. Caesar, already on the
day of battle the soldiers reminds had no enemies in the people to forget
the prisoners are not treated as Bibulus Labienus and it did, however,
even he found it necessary, now to be rigorous. The common soldiers were
in the army for classification against the people better state
fines or Vermoegenskonfiskationen detected the trapped senators and
renowned knight suffered, with few exceptions, the death. The days of
grace was over, the longer it lasted, the more ruthless and incongruous
administers the civil war. ------------------------------ ------------
^ 6 The exact definition of the battlefield is difficult.

Appian (bist. 2, 75) expressly requires the same between (re-) Pharsalos
(now Fersala) and the Enipeus. Of the two waters, which alone of
some significance, and undoubtedly the Apidanos and Enipeus the elderly
are the Sofadhitiko and Fersaliti, that has its sources in the mountains
of Thaumakoi (Dhomoko) and the heights Dolopischen this on the
Othrys, and Fersaliti flows only when Pharsalos over, but now because
of Enipeus after Strabon (9 p. 432) on the Othrys rises and Pharsalos
vorbeifliesst, the Fersaliti with full right of WM Leake (Travels
in Northern Greece. 4th Bd London 1835, p. 320) for the Enipeus
been explained and Goelen followed by the assumption that the
Fersaliti the Apidanos was untenable.

To vote, all other information about both the Old Rivers. Only with Leake
must certainly be assumed that through the association of Fersaliti
and Sofadhitiko educated, the greater flow of Peneios Vlokho in the
elderly, such as the Sofadhitiko, Apidanos wrote: but it is so
natural as is probably the Sofadhitiko not but the water has Fersaliti
Sustainable (Leake, vol 4, p. 321).

Between Fersala and therefore the Fersaliti must have Altpharsalos
located, of which the battle the name carries.

Thus was the battle on the left bank of Fersaliti ment under, so
that the Pompeianer, with the face down Pharsalos standing, her
right wing opposed to the river (Caes. civ. 3, 83 Frontin.

Start. 2, 3, 22). But the camp of the Pompeianer can not confessed, but
only on the slope of the heights of Kynoskephalae on the right
bank of Enipeus, partly because they are the way to Caesar Skotussa
moved, partly because their Rueckzugslinie appears on the top of
the mountains to camp located Larisa went ; they had, after Leake
(vol. 4, p. 482) assumption of Pharsalos east on the left bank of
Enipeus stored, so they could never right here through this deep
creek (Leake, vol 4, p. 469) northward Pompey would have come and
instead of Larisa, after Lamia need to flee.

Probably beat the Pompeianer therefore on the right bank of Fersaliti
their camp and passed the river, and to suggest, rather than after
the battle returned to their camp to get from where they then the
dependence of Krannon and Skotussa hinaufzogen, which over the last
places on the heights of Kynoskephalae to culminate.

This was not impossible. The Enipeus is a narrow, slowly flowing
stream, the Leake in November two feet deep and was in the hot season
is often quite dry (Leake, Vol 1, p. 448 and vol 4, p. 472; see Lucan
. 6, 373), and the battle was beaten in the midsummer. In addition
there were the armies before the battle three quarters miles apart (App.
civ. 2, 65), so that the Pompeianer all the preparations and also the
connection with its stock owned by Bruecken could secure. Had the battle
into a completely Deroute expected, so of course the withdrawal would have
to cross the river and can not be, and no doubt for this reason are
reluctant Pompey understood themselves to be beaten here. The
most Rueckzugsbasis removed from the left wing of Pompeianer has
also felt this, but at least the withdrawal of its center and its
right wing was not accomplished in such haste that he had under the
given conditions would be unworkable.

Caesar and its alerts suppress the excess over the river, because the
same way, the whole story Kampfbegierde the resulting Pompeianer too
much into the light would, and also for those privileged moments of the
retreat. ^ 7 In this context the famous statement of Caesars his soldiers,
according to the faces of the enemy riders to join. The infantry, which
here in quite irregular way offensively against the cavalry appeared,
with the Saebeln was not cope should their Pila not yield, but as a hand
Peere against the rider and need to be better at this escape, so
to top push (Plut. pomp. 69 71; Plut.

CAES. 45; App, civ. 2, 76, 78, Flor. Építés. 2, 13; Oros. hist. 6, 15;
mistaken Frontin start. 4, 7, 32). The conversion of these anecdotal
instruction that the riders Pompeianischen by the fear of worthless in
the face for running away should be brought, and also truly "hands before
the eyes of conservative" (Plutarch) davongaloppiert were falls in
herself together because she has only a point where the cavalry
Pompeianische mainly from the young nobility of Rome, the "dances like"
existed, and this is wrong. more than it could be that the stock joke
of that simple and practical military Ordre this very silly but fun
twist, however, gave . -------------------------------------------------
------- It took some time before the consequences of the 9 August 706
(48) is completely overlooked settled. What the least doubt suffered,
was the kick about all those who contributed to the Pharsalos
to overcome as a party only to be beaten more powerful, and at the
side of Caesar and the defeat was such a totally crucial that the winner
takes all zufiel, not for a lost cause, or had wanted to argue. All the
kings, peoples and cities, so far Pompey 'clientele were formed, now called
their fleet and army contingents and refused to return the refugees of
the beaten party host - as Egypt, Cyrene, the communities of Syria,
Phoenikiens, Cilicia and Asia Minor, Rhodes , Athens and all over the whole
East. Yes, King of Bosporus Pharnakes drove the zeal so far that he
is on the news of the battle Pharsalischen not just the year before
many of Pompey declared free Phanagoria city and the areas of his
kolchischen Fuersten confirmed, but even from the same Koenig
Deiotarus awarded small kingdom in Armenia took possession.

Almost the only exceptions to this general submission, the small town
of Megara, by the Caesarianern to besiege and storm left, and King Juba
of Numidien, of Caesar, the recovery of his kingdom long ago and after
the victory over Curio only as secure pursuit and thus admittedly had,
willy-nilly, the beaten party had to endure.

Like the clientele communities to the winner of Pharsalos subdued, was
also the tail of the Constitution Party, all of which were half-hearted
or even join in, as Marcus Cicero and his peers, only the aristocracy
herumtrippelten as Halbhexen mountain around the block, came to With the
new rulers to make their peace, because the after his dismissive view
the petitioners willingly and courteously granted. But the core of the
beaten party transigierte not. By the aristocracy, it was gone, but
the aristocrats but that could never convert to monarchy. Even the
highest manifestations of humanity are transient, once the true religion
can be used to lie, the once beneficent term of government will become a
curse, but even the last gospel still finds devotees, and if no such
faith can move mountains as the belief in the living truth, so he remains
himself until his downfall faithful and deviates from the kingdoms of the
living not before he spent his final priest and his last after
Buerger has withdrawn and a new gender, of those schedules and that the
decomposing free, about the rejuvenated world governed. Thus it was
in Rome.

In the abyss of degeneration even now the aristocratic regiment was sunk,
it was once a great political system was, the holy fire, which Italy
conquered and defeated Hannibal was glowing, as tarnished and
verdumpft, but continued in the Roman nobility, as long as it was
such, and made an interior understanding between men of the old
regiment and the new monarch impossible.
His
loftiest emotion will want the noble height of that heroic soul, who must
always stand forth in history a figure of beautiful and singular
distinction, admirable alike for the sensibility and daring, the poetic
pensiveness, and the martial ardor that mingled in him and taxed his
feeble frame with tasks greater than it could bear. The whole story of
the capture of Quebec is full of romantic splendor and pathos. Her fall
was a triumph for all the English-speaking race, and to us Americans,
long scourged by the cruel Indian wars plotted within her walls or
sustained by her strength, such a blessing as was hailed with ringing
bells and blazing bonfires throughout the Colonies; yet now we cannot
think without pity of the hopes extinguished and the labors brought to
naught in her overthrow. That strange colony of priests and soldiers, of
martyrs and heroes, of which she was the capital, willing to perish for
an allegiance to which the mother-country was indifferent, and fighting
against the armies with which England was prepared to outnumber the whole
Canadian population, is a magnificent spectacle; and Montcalm laying down
his life to lose Quebec is not less affecting than Wolfe dying to win
her. The heart opens towards the soldier who recited, on the eve of his
costly victory, the "Elegy in a Country Churchyard," which he would
"rather have written than beat the French to-morrow;" but it aches for
the defeated general, who, hurt to death, answered, when told how brief
his time was, "So much the better; then I shall not live to see the
surrender of Quebec."

In the city for which they perished their fame has never been divided.
The English have shown themselves very generous victors; perhaps nothing
could be alleged against them, but that they were victors. A shaft common
to Wolfe and Montcalm celebrates them both in the Governor's Garden; and
in the Chapel of the Ursuline Convent a tablet is placed, where Montcalm
died, by the same conquerors who raised to Wolfe's memory the column on
the battle-field.

A dismal prison covers the ground where the hero fell, and the monument
stands on the spot where Wolfe breathed his last, on ground lower than
the rest of the field; the friendly hollow that sheltered him from the
fire of the French dwarfs his monument; yet it is sufficient, and the
simple inscription, "Here died Wolfe victorious," gives it a dignity
which many cubits of added stature could not bestow. Another of those
bitter showers, which had interspersed the morning's sunshine, drove
suddenly across the open plain, and our tourists comfortably
sentimentalized the scene behind the close-drawn curtains of their
carriage. Here a whole empire had been lost and won, Basil reminded
Isabel; and she said, "Only think of it!" and looked to a wandering fold
of her skirt, upon which the rain beat through a rent of the curtain.

Do I pitch the pipe too low? We poor honest men are at a sad
disadvantage; and now and then I am minded to give a loose to fancy, and
attribute something really grand and fine to my people, in order to make
them worthier the reader's respected acquaintance. But again, I forbid
myself in a higher interest; and I am afraid that even if I were less
virtuous, I could not exalt their mood upon a battle-field; for of all
things of the past a battle is the least conceivable. I have heard men
who fought in many battles say that the recollection was like a dream to
them; and what can the merely civilian imagination do on the Plains of
Abraham, with the fact that there, more than a century ago, certain
thousands of Frenchmen marched out, on a bright September morning, to
kill and maim as many Englishmen? This ground, so green and oft with
grass beneath the feet, was it once torn with shot and soaked with the
blood of men? Did they lie here in ranks and heaps, the miserable slain,
for whom tender hearts away yonder over the sea were to ache and break?
Did the wretches that fell wounded stretch themselves here, and writhe
beneath the feet of friend and foe, or crawl array for shelter into
little hollows, and behind gushes and fallen trees! Did he, whose soul
was so full of noble and sublime impulses, die here, shot through like
some ravening beast? The loathsome carnage, the shrieks, the hellish din
of arms, the cries of victory,--I vainly strive to conjure up some image
of it all now; and God be thanked, horrible spectre! that, fill the world
with sorrow as thou wilt, thou still remainest incredible in its moments
of sanity and peace. Least credible art thou on the old battle-fields,
where the mother of the race denies thee with breeze and sun and leaf and
bird, and every blade of grass! The red stain in Basil's thought yielded
to the rain sweeping across the pasture-land from which it had long since
faded, and the words on the monument, "Here died Wolfe victorious," did
not proclaim his bloody triumph over the French, but his self-conquest,
his victory over fear and pain and love of life. Alas! when shall the
poor, blind, stupid world honor those who renounce self in the joy of
their kind, equally with those who devote themselves through the anguish
and loss of thousands? So old a world and groping still!

The tourists were better fitted for the next occasion of sentiment, which
was at the Hotel Dieu whither they went after returning from the
battlefield. It took all the mal-address of which travellers are masters
to secure admittance, and it was not till they had rung various wrong
bells, and misunderstood many soft nun-voices speaking French through
grated doors, and set divers sympathetic spectators doing ineffectual
services, that they at last found the proper entrance, and were answered
in English that the porter would ask if they might see the chapel. They
hoped to find there the skull of Brebeuf, one of those Jesuit martyrs who
perished long ago for the conversion of a race that has perished, and
whose relics they had come, fresh from their reading of Parkman, with
some vague and patronizing intention to revere. An elderly sister with a
pale, kind face led them through a ward of the hospital into the chapel,
which they found in the expected taste, and exquisitely neat and cool,
but lacking the martyr's skull. They asked if it were not to be seen.
"Ah, yes, poor Pere Brebeuf!" sighed the gentle sister, with the tone and
manner of having lost him yesterday; "we had it down only last week,
showing it to some Jesuit fathers; but it's in the convent now, and isn't
to be seen." And there mingled apparently in her regret for Pere Brebeuf
a confusing sense of his actual state as a portable piece of furniture.
She would not let them praise the chapel. It was very clean, yes, but
there was nothing to see in it. She deprecated their compliments with
many shrugs, but she was pleased; for when we renounce the pomps and
vanities of this world, we are pretty sure to find them in some
other,--if we are women. She, good and pure soul, whose whole life was
given to self-denying toil, had yet something angelically coquettish in
her manner, a spiritual-worldliness which was the clarified likeness of
this-worldliness. O, had they seen the Hotel Dieu at Montreal? Then (with
a vivacious wave of the hands) they would not care to look at this, which
by comparison was nothing. Yet she invited them to go through the wards
if they would, and was clearly proud to have them see the wonderful
cleanness and comfort of the place. There were not many patients, but
here and there a wan or fevered face looked at them from its pillow, or a
weak form drooped beside a bed, or a group of convalescents softly talked
together. They came presently to the last hall, at the end of which sat
another nun, beside a window that gave a view of the busy port, and
beyond it the landscape of village-lit plain and forest-darkened height.
On a table at her elbow stood a rose-tree, on which hung two only pale
tea-roses, so fair, so perfect, that Isabel cried out in wonder and
praise. Ere she could prevent it, the nun, to whom there had been some
sort of presentation, gathered one of the roses, and with a shy grace
offered it to Isabel, who shrank back a little as from too costly a gift.
"Take it," said the first nun, with her pretty French accent; while the
other, who spoke no English at all, beamed a placid smile; and Isabel
took it. The flower, lying light in her palm, exhaled a delicate odor,
and a thrill of exquisite compassion for it trembled through her heart,
as if it had been the white, cloistered life of the silent nun: with its
pallid loveliness, it was as a flower that had taken the veil. It could
never have uttered the burning passion of a lover for his mistress; the
nightingale could have found no thorn on it to press his aching poet's
heart against; but sick and weary eyes had dwelt gratefully upon it; at
most it might have expressed, like a prayer, the nun's stainless love of
some favorite saint in paradise. Cold, and pale, and sweet,--was it
indeed only a flower, this cloistered rose of the Hotel Dieu?

September 648 106). It was a misfortune for the admired as for admirers,
but it was naturally. Healthy in body and soul, an efficient
Turner, still as senior officer with his soldiers to the bet jumped,
ran and lifted, a strong and skilled rider and fencer, a bold
Freischarenfuehrer, was the young man in an age that made him by
each Office and excluded from the Senate, and Imperator Triumphator
and had become the public opinion in the first place next Sulla,
indeed of the venial, half-appreciative, half-ironic regents
themselves the nickname the Great is acquired.

Unfortunately for his spiritual gifts was this incredible success, but not
bad. He was not evil and not incompetent, but a perfectly ordinary
man, by nature created an efficient constable, appointed by the
circumstances, captain and state man.

An insightful, brave and experienced, quite excellent soldier, but he was
also a military without a scratch track talent, as a captain is all
about how he owned with a bordering on timidity caution to go to
work and perhaps the decisive blow only to lead when the ungeheuerste
superiority over the adversary process. His education is the education
of the dozens of time, although a soldier through and through but he
is not missed when he came to Rhodes, there to admire Redekuenstler
duties and Treat. His righteousness was the rich man, with his inherited
and acquired considerable property circumspect keeps house, he spurned
it is not in the usual way senators to make money, but he was too cold
and too rich to be so in particular risks to issued and outstanding disgrace
to it. The among his contemporaries in pregnancy depravity has more depth
than its own virtue to him - but probably quite justified - reputation of
efficiency gains and altruism. His "honest face" was almost literally,
and even after his death he was a decent and moral man, in fact he was a
good neighbor, which is the indignation of the Great custom of that time,
their territorial limits by Zwangskaeufe or, even worse, to expense
of smaller neighbors who do not participate, and he showed in his family
life devotion to wife and children, it also served to honor him,
that he first conceived the barbaric custom abging the trapped enemy
kings and Lord of their field performance in triumph to be executed .
But that was not him, if his lord and master Sulla bade goodbye to the
beloved woman to distinguish because they are proscribed gender and on
the same area Wink men to him in time of severe helpful had helped,
with great peace of mind before his eyes to be executed, he was not cruel,
as he was accused, but, perhaps worse, cold and in the good and the evil
without passion. In Schlachtgetuemmel he saw the enemies of the white
in the eye and in civil life, he was a shy man, which at the slightest
cause the blood rose in the cheeks and not without embarrassment
publicly spoke about all angular, stiff and awkward to transport.

For all his arrogant stubbornness, he was like yes, in general
those are the ones who are to review their own bear, a docile tool in the
hands of those who understood him to be taken, including his
freedmen and clients, of which he is not afraid to be mastered.

Too, he was nothing less than to create statesman. Unclear about its
objectives, ungewandt in the election of its funds, as small in the large
short-sighted and clueless, he maintained his indecision and
uncertainty in solemn silence to hide and if he felt fine to play,
but with the other faith to deceive themselves themselves to cheat.

Through his military position and its relations landsmannschaftlichen
fell to him almost without his doing a good, devoted to him
personally to party with which the largest had said things can be
carried out; Pompey alone was unable in every respect, a party to
guide and hold together, and if they still together, so if this
happened the same without his intervention by the mere emphasis of
the ratio.

Here as in other things he remembers to Marius, but Marius and his
bauer-term raw, sensual passionate nature AN INTOLERABLE still less than
that boring after all and steifleinenste made great men.

His political position was quite wrong. He was an officer and
Sullanischer for the restored constitution einzustehen committed,
and yet again in opposition to Sulla personally as against the whole
regiment senators.

The sex of Pompeii, which has only been about sixty years in the
Konsularverzeichnissen was called, was in the eyes of aristocracy
still not as full, but this was the father of Pompey the Senate a
very nasty hybrid status and used it himself in the ranks of the
Cinnaner confessed - memories, the most secretive, but not forgotten.

The excellent position, under Pompey Sulla is acquired, internally
divided it equally with the aristocracy, as it maintained with the
same intertwined.

Schwachkoepfig as he had promised Pompey to the concern so quickly and
easily climbed Fame altitude of dizziness taken. Just as if he wanted
to duerr his prosaic nature of the parallels with the poetic heroes of all
shapes itself scorn, he began with Alexander the Great to compare and
opt for a single man to hold that it does not gezieme, just one of the
councilmen fuenfhundert Roman to be. In fact no one was created in an
aristocratic regiment as a link is inserted, as he. Pompey 'Aeussere
dignified, his solemn formality, his personal bravery, his respectable
life, his lack of any initiative he had said, he would be two hundred
years earlier, was born, next Quintus Maximus and Publius Decius
are honored for their full place win fans; kinship to the election,
the between Pompey and the mass of residents and the Senate at all
times existed, this really optima travel and real Roman Mediokritaet
not least contributed.

Even in his time still would have a clear and respectable position for
him, so he wofern enough left, the captain of the Council to be when
he was out of the box was intended. It was not enough and so he was the
disastrous situation, something else to want to as he could. Resistant
He sought for a special position in the state and if they darbot, he
could not decide to take them, with deep bitterness, he took it,
and if people do not necessarily laws are bent in front of him, yet
he himself not only with affected modesty all over as one of many equals,
and trembled before the mere thought, to start something unconstitutional.
So stocks in depth and with voltage but also the obedient servants
of the oligarchy constantly tormented by an ambition to become the front
of his own goals appalled, verfloss him in perpetual inner conflict freudelos
be moving a lot of lives. Nor can the Pompey Marcus Crassus to the
unconditional supporters of the oligarchy counted. It is an era for this
highly distinctive character. Like Pompey, which he aged a few years
pre-order, he also belonged to the circles of the high Roman aristocracy,
had the usual standesmaessige and receive equal education under Pompey
Sulla in the war with distinction Italic ment under. An intellectual talent,
literary and military talent zurueckstehend far behind many of his peers,
it is surpassed by his unbounded Ruehrigkeit and the tenacity with which
he rang, and everything to have meaning. Above all, threw himself into
the speculation. Gueterkaeufe during the Revolution, has expressed
his fortunes, but he spurned a non-profit branch, he operated a construction
business in the capital as well as great care, he went with his
freedmen in the manifold activities in Company, he was in and out of
Rome, by itself or its people the banker, he Schoss his colleagues in
the Senate and took the money before it, for their bill as it was run or
work Kollegienhaus judges to bribe. Choosy in making profit, he was not.
Sullanischen Even when the proscription was it a forgery in the lists
have been demonstrated why Sulla from then on its non-state
enterprises continue to operate was the matter of inheritance, he
took no less, because the instrument will, in his name was, was
notoriously forged, he had no objection if his Meier small riparian
their Lord from their lands forcibly or secretly suppressed.

The way he avoided open conflict with the Criminal Justice and lived as a
true man of money even Civil and easy. In this way Crassus was within
a few years from a man of ordinary senators, the Lord of an asset that is
not long before his death, according to defray huge expenditure still
outstanding to 170 million Sestertius (13 million crowns) was: he
was the richest Roemer and thus become both a political entity. If,
after his statement that nobody was allowed to mention rich, not from a
war his interest Sheer managed to entertain, it was who managed
this, hardly a mere citizen.

     In fact, Crassus' view on a higher goal than to the possession of
the money box filled in Rome.

He did not bother it is bore, extend its compounds. Every citizen of the
capital, he knew by name, to greet. No begging, he failed his assistance
in court. While nature was not much for him as a spokesperson done: his
speech was dry, the monotonous lecture, he heard heavy, but his fierce
sense, the newly acquired no boredom like no pleasure abzog, walked over
the obstacles. He never seemed unprepared, he never extemporaneous, and
so was he ever wanted and ever ready to advocate that it did not find a
record that was not easy a thing to be bad and that he was not merely
by his word, but also by its links If occurring, and through his gold on
the judges understood groups. The Council was half his fault, his
habit, his friends money without interest to any recovery
vorzuschiessen made a lot of influential men of his dependent, more
so because it is a real business man no distinction made between
the parties, anywhere connections maintained and readily any borrowed,
or the solvent was otherwise usable.

The verwegensten Parteifuehrer who ruthlessly on all sides directed their
attacks, guard, with Crassus anzubinden; you compared it to the bull
of the herd, to the irritation of not raetlich was. The fact that such
a kind man, and so asked to be low aims was obvious, and, unlike Pompey,
Crassus knew exactly how a banker, what and with what he speculated
politically. Since Rome was the capital daselbst a political power, the
time was of the type that the gold as the iron everything seemed accessible.
If in the revolution, a capitalist aristocracy that had fans thinking,
the oligarchy of the sexes to fall, it could also a man like the looks
of Crassus higher levy than the Rutenbuendeln and the embroidered coat of
Triumphator. Currently, he Sullaner and supporters of the Senate, he
was just too much financial man, to a certain political party had
its own, and to give something else to pursue as his personal advantage.
Why should Crassus, the wealthiest man and the intrigue in Rome render
sharp and no miser, but a speculator in the largest scale, not even
speculate on the crown?

Perhaps he alone could not achieve this goal, but he already had some
great company business made: it was not impossible, that
will also be a suitable participant darbot. It belongs to the
signature of the time that a mediocre speaker and officer, a politician
who Ruehrigkeit for his energy, his lust for ambition was that basically
nothing had as a colossal fortunes and business talent, connections tie
- that such a man , Having regard to the omnipotence of Koterien and
intrigue, the first military and statesmanship of the time is equal respect
and with them the highest price was allowed to wrestle, the political
ambition beckons. In the real opposition, both among conservatives as
a liberal among Popuhren , had the storms of revolution with terrifying
thoroughness tidy. Among those was the only remaining prominent man
Gaius Cotta (630 to approximately 681 124 -73), the ally and a friend
of Drusus, and therefore in the year 663 (91) banned, and subsequently by
Sullas RECONSTITUTED war in the homeland, he was a clever man and a
capable lawyer, but not by the weight of his party nor by the more
his personality than rely on a reputable secondary importance.
In the Democratic Party withdrew from the young vierundzwanzigjaehrige
of Gaius Iulius Caesar (born July 12 652?

102) ^ 2, the gaze of friend and foe to be. His Verschwaegerung with Marius
and Cinna - his father's sister was Marius' wife, he even Cinnas daughter
married - and the bold refusal of the little boys grow old youth,
after the command of the dictator, his young wife Cornelia letter sent
to the vagina, as it in the same case done Pompey, a bold insistence
on him by Marius assigned by Sulla but again disqualified from the priesthood,
and his wanderings during the threat of him and laboriously through
intercession of his relatives ostracized away, his bravery in battles
against Mytilene and in Cilicia, the the tenderly educated female, and
almost nobody stutzerhaften boys had believed, even the warnings Sullas
before the "boys in the Rock", in which more than one Marius put - all
these were just as many of the recommendations in the eyes of the democratic
party. Meanwhile, Caesar had to just hope for the future to build, and
the men who by their age and their position in the state already would
have been invoked, the reins of the party and the country is to conquer,
were all dead or ostracized. So was the leader of democracy in the
absence of a truly jobs for everyone to have the airport it wants to be
the representative of the oppressed people of freedom with you, and in
this way she came to Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, a Sullaner, consisting of
more than ambiguous motives transferred in the camp of democracy.
Once an avid Optimat and heavily involved in over the goods of the outlawed,
held auctions, he had as governor of the province of Sicily so badly
looted, an accusation that he threatened, and in order to escape this,
is thrown into the opposition.

It was a profit of questionable value. While a well-known name, a
distinguished man, a heated speaker on the market so that the opposition
was acquired, but Lepidus was a minor and reckless head that neither the
rate nor on the field earned at the top stand. Nevertheless,
the opposition called him welcome, and the new Demokratenfuehrer succeeded
in not just his accuser of the continuation of the attack launched against
him off, but his election as consul for 676 (78) to enforce, with him
out of the way in Sicily extorted appreciate Pompey 'silly effort was
beneficial, on this occasion Sulla and the pure Sullanern to show what
he assets. Thus, when Sulla died, the opposition to back a major Lepidus
had found and since this guide her the highest officials of the State had
become so settled near the outbreak of a new revolution in the
capital with certainty predict. ----- -------------------------------------------------
^ 2 When Caesar's year of birth to maintain the year 654 (100) to
be, because he Suetonius (Caes. 88), Plutarch (Caes. 69) and Appian
(civ. 2 149) in his death (15th March 710 44) in 56 .

Centuries, while also stating that he is currently the Sullanischen
Proskription (672 82) eighteen years old (Vell. 2, 41), approximately
identical. But in so irresolvable contradiction is that Caesar in the
year 689 (65) the Aedilitaet, 692 (62) the Praetur, 695 (59) held the
consulate and those posts after the earlier Annalgesetzen respectively.
in 37/38., 40/41. and 43/44. Year of life could be clothed. It is not known
how Caesar ALL kurulischen posts two years before the legal time clothed,
nor less, that no mention of this should be done. Rather, these facts
suggest that he, undoubtedly because his birthday on the 12th July was
not 654 (100), but 652 (102) was born, so in the year 672 (82) in 20/21.
Years of life was not in the 56th, but 57 years 8 months old died. For
this latter approach is also allege auffallenderweise what is being
mentioned, that Caesar "PAEN Puer" by Marius and Cinna the Flemings
of Jupiter has been appointed (Vell. 2, 43), because Marius died
in January 668 (86) , where Caesar habitual approach after thirteen
years and six months old, not "almost", as Velleius says, but still
really boy and that is why such a priesthood was scarcely capable.

Was he on the other hand, in July 652 (102) was born, so he stood at the
death of Marius in the sixteenth year of life, and agrees to the designation
of Velleius as the general rule that citizens are not capable of being
before the end of the boy's age to be. For this latter approach also fits
alone, that the outbreak of the Civil War Caesar beaten denarii with
the number LII, probably the year of life, the meaning, because when he
started, was Caesar hereafter something about 52 years old. Also, it
is not as bold as us regular and official birth lists accustomed appears
in this respect our Gewaehrsmaenner Zeihen to an error.

He
opened his store of facts about the habitans, whom he praised for every
virtue,--for thrift, for sobriety, for neatness, for amiability; and his
words ought to have had the greater weight, because he was of the Irish
race, between which and the Canadians there is no kindness lost. But the
looks of the passers-by corroborated him, and as for the little houses,
open-doored beside the way, with the pleasant faces at window and portal,
they were miracles of picturesqueness and cleanliness. From each the
owner's slim domain, narrowing at every successive division among the
abundant generations, runs back to hill or river in well-defined lines,
and beside the cottage is a garden of pot-herbs, bordered with a flame of
bright autumn flowers; somewhere in decent seclusion grunts the fattening
pig, which is to enrich all those peas and onions for the winter's broth;
there is a cheerfulness of poultry about the barns; I dare be sworn there
is always a small girl driving a flock of decorous ducks down the middle
of the street; and of the priest with a book under his arm, passing a
way-side shrine, what possible doubt? The houses, which are of one model,
are built by the peasants themselves with the stone which their land
yields more abundantly than any other crop, and are furnished with
galleries and balconies to catch every ray of the fleeting summer, and
perhaps to remember the long-lost ancestral summers of Normandy. At every
moment, in passing through this ideally neat and pretty village, our
tourists must think of the lovely poem of which all French Canada seems
but a reminiscence and illustration. It was Grand Pre, not Beauport; and
they paid an eager homage to the beautiful genius which has touched those
simple village aspects with an undying charm, and which, whatever the
land's political allegiance, is there perpetual Seigneur.

The village, stretching along the broad interval of the St. Lawrence,
grows sparser as you draw near the Falls of Montmorenci, and presently
you drive past the grove shutting from the road the country-house in
which the Duke of Kent spent some merry days of his jovial youth, and
come in sight of two lofty towers of stone,--monuments and witnesses of
the tragedy of Montmorenci.

Once a suspension-bridge, built sorely against the will of the
neighboring habitans, hung from these towers high over the long plunge of
the cataract. But one morning of the fatal spring after the first
winter's frost had tried the hold of the cable on the rocks, an old
peasant and his wife with their little grandson set out in their cart to
pass the bridge. As they drew near the middle the anchoring wires
suddenly lost their grip upon the shore, and whirled into the air; the
bridge crashed under the hapless passengers and they were launched from
its height, upon the verge of the fall and thence plunged, two hundred
and fifty feet, into the ruin of the abyss.

The habitans rebuilt their bridge of wood upon low stone piers, so far up
the river from the cataract that whoever fell from it would yet have many
a chance for life; and it would have been perilous to offer to replace
the fallen structure, which, in the belief of faithful Christians,
clearly belonged to the numerous bridges built by the Devil, in times
when the Devil did not call himself a civil engineer.

The driver, with just unction, recounted the sad tale as he halted his
horses on the bridge; and as his passengers looked down the rock-fretted
brown torrent towards the fall, Isabel seized the occasion to shudder
that ever she had set foot on that suspension-bridge below Niagara, and
to prove to Basil's confusion that her doubt of the bridges between the
Three Sisters was not a case of nerves but an instinctive wisdom
concerning the unsafety of all bridges of that design.

From the gate opening into the grounds about the fall two or three little
French boys, whom they had not the heart to forbid, ran noisily before
them with cries in their sole English, "This way, sir" and led toward a
weather-beaten summer-house that tottered upon a projecting rock above
the verge of the cataract. But our tourists shook their heads, and turned
away for a more distant and less dizzy enjoyment of the spectacle, though
any commanding point was sufficiently chasmal and precipitous. The lofty
bluff was scooped inward from the St. Lawrence in a vast irregular
semicircle, with cavernous hollows, one within another, sinking far into
its sides, and naked from foot to crest, or meagrely wooded here and
there with evergreen. From the central brink of these gloomy purple
chasms the foamy cataract launched itself, and like a cloud,

     "Along the cliff to fall and pause and fall did seem."

I say a cloud, because I find it already said to my hand, as it were, in
a pretty verse, and because I must needs liken Montmorenci to something
that is soft and light. Yet a cloud does not represent the glinting of
the water in its downward swoop; it is like some broad slope of
sun-smitten snow; but snow is coldly white and opaque, and this has a
creamy warmth in its luminous mass; and so, there hangs the cataract
unsaid as before. It is a mystery that anything so grand should be so
lovely, that anything so tenderly fair in whatever aspect should yet be
so large that one glance fails to comprehend it all. The rugged wildness
of the cliffs and hollows about it is softened by its gracious beauty,
which half redeems the vulgarity of the timber-merchant's uses in setting
the river at work in his saw-mills and choking its outlet into the St.
Lawrence with rafts of lumber and rubbish of slabs and shingles. Nay,
rather, it is alone amidst these things, and the eye takes note of them
by a separate effort.

Our tourists sank down upon the turf that crept with its white clover to
the edge of the precipice, and gazed dreamily upon the fall, filling
their vision with its exquisite color and form. Being wiser than I, they
did not try to utter its loveliness; they were content to feel it, and
the perfection of the afternoon, whose low sun slanting over the
landscape gave, under that pale, greenish-blue sky, a pensive sentiment
of autumn to the world. The crickets cried amongst the grass; the
hesitating chirp of birds came from the tree overhead; a shaggy colt left
off grazing in the field and stalked up to stare at them; their little
guides, having found that these people had no pleasure in the sight of
small boys scuffling on the verge of a precipice, threw themselves also
down upon the grass and crooned a long, long ballad in a mournful minor
key about some maiden whose name was La Belle Adeline. It was a moment of
unmixed enjoyment for every sense, and through all their being they were
glad; which considering, they ceased to be so, with a deep sigh, as one
reasoning that he dreams must presently awake. They never could have an
emotion without desiring to analyze it; but perhaps their rapture would
have ceased as swiftly, even if they had not tried to make it a fact of
consciousness.

"If there were not dinner after such experiences as these," said Isabel,
as they sat at table that evening, "I don't know what would become of
one. But dinner unites the idea of pleasure and duty, and brings you
gently back to earth. You must eat, don't you see, and there's nothing
disgraceful about what you're obliged to do; and so--it's all right."

"Isabel, Isabel," cried her husband, "you have a wonderful mind, and its
workings always amaze me. But be careful, my dear; be careful. Don't work
it too hard. The human brain, you know: delicate organ."

"Well, you understand what I mean; and I think it's one of the great
charms of a husband, that you're not forced to express yourself to him. A
husband," continued Isabel, sententiously, poising a bit of meringue
between her thumb and finger,--for they had reached that point in the
repast, "a husband is almost as good as another woman!"

It is shocking that on that Weltbuehne, that so many great and wise men
had changed and acted, which was intended to fool epilogieren.

Also, he is not in vain. It was a terrible shock of the Republic of
protest against the monarchy, that the last Republican was the first
monarch came; a protest, of all those so-called constitutional, with
which Caesar's monarchy umkleidete like spider webs tore Schibboleth
and the reconciliation of all parties under whose aegis the Herrentum
grew in all its hypocritical Luegenhaftigkeit prostitution.

The relentless war, the specter of the legitimate Republic of centuries,
of Cassius and Brutus at up to Thrasea and Tacitus, and indeed
much further down against the monarchy led Caesars - this war of
conspiracies and the literature is the inheritance, the Cato dying
bequeathed his enemies.

Your whole noble, transcendental rhetoric, demanding, strict, and hopeless
to the death of this attitude has been faithful Republican opposition
of Cato, and then also the man who, not infrequently in the life
of their ridicule and their offense was, immediately after his death
as a saint began to worship.

The largest but among these was the involuntary homage to Caesar he was,
by the dismissive mildness with which his opponents, as Pompeianer
Republican, was accustomed to be treated, alone against Cato made an
exception and even beyond the grave about him with that energetic
Hasselager pursued and what the practical statesmanlike to maintain
the feel at the ideal area to give them as dangerous as unattainable,
opposing opponents 11.

Chapter The old republic and the new monarchy, the new monarch of
Rome, the first ruler over the whole territory Hellenic-Roman
civilization, Gaius Iulius Caesar, was the sixth year of life (born
July 12 652?

102), as the battle of Thapsus , the last link in a long chain of massive
victories, the decision about the future of the world in his hands.

Less human resilience is put to the test was how this single creative
genius that is Rome, and the last, the old world and spawned in its
tracks because they are up to their own downfall has moved.

The offspring of one of the oldest noble families Lazio, which their
family tree on the heroes of the Iliad and the kings of Rome, so the two
nations shared Venus-Aphrodite back, were his boys and first-Juenglingsjahre
passed, as they make the youth of that era to pass away cultivated.

He also had the cup of life to the fashion of the foam as the yeast tasted,
and had recited declaims on the Faulbett literature driven verses and
made Liebeshaendel played each class and can dedicate all shaving,
hairdressing and cuff Mysteries of the former toilet wisdom and in
the still mysterious art, always borrow and never pay. But the flexible
nature of the steel that withstood even zerfahrenen windy and bustle;
Caesar remained both the physical freshness ungeschwaecht as the
elasticity of the mind and heart. In fencing and horseback riding,
he took it with each of his soldiers, and his swimming in Alexandreia
saved his life, the incredible speed of the time its usually half profit
nightly travel - the right counterparts like procession to the
slowness with which Pompey move from one place moving to another -
was the surprise of his contemporaries, and not the last reason for its
success. As the body was the mind. His admirably Anschauungsvermoegen
revealed in the feasibility and safety of all its arrangement, even where
he commanded, without with your own eyes. His memory was unique and it was
familiar to him, several shops with the same security to operate side
by side.: Although gentleman, genius and Monarch, he had still a
heart. As long as he lived, he kept for his worthy mother Aurelia -
his father died early - the purest devotion, his women, and especially his
daughter, Iulia, he an honest affection, even to the political situation
remained without retroactivity. With the efficient and robust men of his
time, high and low rank, he stood in a beautiful relationship of
mutual loyalty, with each according to its kind As he himself never in
one of his Pompey 'timid and kind of numb and let fall, not just from the
calculation, in good and evil at the time ungeirrt friends stated,
shall also have some of these, as Hirtius and Aulus Gaius Matius,
even after his death his beautiful testimonies keep their followers.
If in such a harmonically organized nature about any individual
page as a characteristic can be highlighted, it is that all the ideology
and everything was fantastic him away. It goes without saying that Caesar
was a passionate man, for without passion there is no genius, but his
passion was never more powerful than he. He had had a youth, and songs,
love and wine were also in his mind in living life confiscate, but they
pushed him but not to the innerlichsten core of his being. : The
Literary employees him long and earnestly, but if Alexander the Homeric
Achilles did not sleep, so Caesar was in his sleepless hours observations
about the principal of the Latin inflections and words at times. He
made every verse, as then, but they were weak, while interested
him astronomical and scientific objects.

If the wine for Alexander the crusher was worried and remained so after
avoiding durchschwaermter youth the same perfectly sober Roemer.
Like all those in the youth of the full splendor of the woman love
umstrahlt has remained a glimmer of them everlasting rest upon him:
in late years, met him love and success with women and he remained
a certain Stutzerhaftigkeit in the outer appearance or correct
the gratifying consciousness of one's own Male beautiful
appearance. Carefully covered it with a laurel wreath with which in later
years he appeared in public, which feels painfully bald and had no doubt
about some of his victories where he would have the youthful curls
zurueckkaufen can. But what he likes even than with the Monarch wrong
women, he just played with them and give them no influence over Himself,
even his much-relationship to the Queen Cleopatra was only
angesponnen, a weak point in his political position to mask.

Caesar was quite a realist and human mind, and what he attacked, and did,
was the genius of sobriety and penetrated into the innermost its
peculiarity described.

Your owed his fortunes, unperturbed by remembering and vigorously expect
to live for the moment, her ability, in every moment with accumulated
power to act and also the smallest and incidental start its full brilliance
on their part, her versatility, with whom he recorded and mastered, what
the intellect and the will to understand force can secure their
ease with which he said periods, as his campaign was designed, her
"wonderful Laughter", which is in good and evil days, he remained
faithful, and its perfect independence that has no favorite mistress and
no one, not even the friends are allowed over violence. From this
understanding comes clarity, but also her that Caesar is about the power
of fate and the skill of the people never made illusions, for it
was the HOLD veil lifted, the people highlighted the inadequacy of
his work hidden.

How wise he also planned and thought out all possibilities, the feeling
most never out of his chest, that in all things, the luck, that is a good
chance to do best, and so it may be because even with the fact that he is
so often the fate Paroli warranted, especially with his daring
indifferent person over and over again on the game itself.

Like probably most people in reasonably pure Hasardspiel to flee, it was
in Caesar's rationalism a point where he met a certain mysticism which
is the care. From such a facility could only show a statesman. From early
youth to Caesar was also a statesman in the deepest sense of the word,
and his goal the highest, which allowed people to connect: political,
military, spiritual and moral rebirth of tiefgesunkenen own, and
the still deeper decline, with the dearly severed his Hellenic
nation.

The hard dreissigjaehriger school experience changed its Aerasichten about
the funds, as it was to achieve the goal remained the same to him
in the days of hopeful humiliation as unlimited sovereignty, in the
times where he served as demagogues and Verschworener on dark paths
hinschlich to him, like since he was the co-owner of the highest
violence and then as a monarch in the eyes of a world in the full
sunshine of his works.

All times on various measures initiated by him arrange a permanent nature
in the great blueprint is appropriate. From individual services about
Caesars should not really be talking, he has created rather than individual.
By law, the speaker praises Caesar for all his art advocate mocking
masculine eloquence, like the clear flame lit at the same time and
heated.

By law you can admire the writer to Caesar the inimitable simplicity of
composition, the only purity and beauty of language. By law, the greatest
war of all times the master commander praised Caesar, like no other
ungeirrt of routine and tradition is always to find that Kriegfuehrung
knew what in the given case the enemy is defeated, and which therefore
in the given case the right is; divinatorischer with the security
for any purpose was the right resources, after the shock defeat
stood ready, as William of Orange, and with the victory, without
exception, the campaign finished, the element of Kriegfuehrung,
whose treatment by the military genius of the habitual Offiziertuechtigkeit
differs , the rapid movement of the masses with unsurpassed perfection
handled and not in the mass of the armed forces, but in the speed
of their movement, not long in preparing, but in the rapid, even
daring act even with insufficient means, the guarantee of victory
was.

With all of this is in addition to Caesar only thing he was a great
orator, writer and captain, but each of them, it is only because he was
a perfect jam man. Named plays the soldier in him a very incidental
role, and it is a of the principal owners who have him by Alexander,
Hannibal and Napoleon differs in that it is not the officer, but
the demagogue the starting point of political activity.

According to his original plan he had his goal as Perikles and Gaius
Gracchus, without force of arms to achieve thought and eighteen years,
he had as leader of the Popular Party only in political intrigues and
plans to move before he is reluctant to convincingly of the need for
military backing , already a forties, at the head of an army joined.
It was explained by the fact that he also later still remained more
statesman than general - similar to Cromwell, who is also from the
Oppositionsfuehrer to Militaerchef and Democrats are umschuf Koenig
and about anything, how little of the loose Puritanerfuerst Roemer
seems to be the same, but in its development as stated in its
objectives and achievements, perhaps among all the statesmanship
Caesar is the next of kin.

Even in his Kriegfuehrung is improvised shank captain probably still
be seen in Egypt against Napoleon companies and against England is at
the Field Artillery aufgediente Lord Lieutenant is not visible as in the
similar field of Caesars Mr metamorphosierte demagogue. A trained officer
would hardly have done, not on political considerations by the compelling
nature founded military concerns in the way to one side, as Caesar several
times, most striking when landing in Epirus has done. Some of his actions
are reprehensible about military term, but the captain loses only
what the State man wins.

The task of the state's universal nature is like Caesar's genius: when
he separated the diverse and remote attack things, so they were all
without exception back to a big goal, which he with unconditional loyalty
and consistency served, and he never has the multiple pages, and its
major activities Richtgen one before the other is preferred.
Although a master of martial arts, he has yet statesmanship
considerations from the extreme effort to head off civil war and
since he started yet, at least so bloodless laurels as possible to
harvest.

Although the founder of Militaermonarchie, but he has a history of
unprecedented energy Marshal neither hierarchy nor Praetorianerregiment
raised.

If anything, one side of the civil merit, were much more of him,
the scientist, and the arts of peace before the military favored.

The most notable peculiarity of his statesmanship whose creation is
perfect harmony.

In fact, all the conditions for this worst of all human achievements
in Caesar united.

By and by a realist, he had the images of the past and the venerable tradition
of nowhere to challenge: it was nothing in the policy as the living
presence and understandable law, ebenwie he, as a grammarian, the
historical-antiquarian research pushed aside and not recognized than
the one the vivid use of language, but the rule of uniformity A born
ruler, he ruled the minds of the people, like the wind, the cloud forcing,
and urged the diverse natures, it is their own to give the simple and
rough Buergermeister NCO, Making the ladies of Rome and the beautiful
Fuerstinnen Egypt and Mauritania, the brilliant cavalry General and
the calculated banker. His talent for organization is wonderful, has
never been a statesman his alliances, never been a captain of his army
and ungefuegen reluctant elements so decided zusammengezwungen and so
firmly held together as his Caesar and his legions coalitions;
never a regent with a view so sharp and his tools to assess each
at the appropriate place by him.

He was a monarch, but he has never played the king. Also available
as full lord of Rome, he remained in his appearance of Parteifuehrer;
totally flexible and supple, comfortable and graceful in the
entertainment, courteous to everyone, it seemed nothing wanting to
be as the first among his peers.

The mistake of so many otherwise equal to men, the military Kommandoton
on the policy to take over, Caesar has absolutely avoided, as many
occasion the sullen relationship to the Senate gave him also, he
has never grabbed brutalities such as the eighteenth Brumaire one
was .

Caesar was Monarch, but never has it captured the tyrant dizziness.

He is perhaps the only one among the mighty of the Lord, which in the large
as in small never whim or inclination, but without exception,
according to his rule requirement has acted, and if he zuruecksah
on his life, probably false invoices to be regretted, but no misstep
passion was to regret it.

There is nothing in Caesar's life story, which is also only in small ^ 1
could be compared with those poetic-sensuous upsurge, with the
assassination of Kleitos or the fire of Persepolis, the story of
his great predecessor in the East reported.

He has finally, perhaps the only one among those mighty, the statesmanship
of the clock for the possible and impossible until the end of his
career are preserved and has not failed in that task, for the great
natures created by all the worst, to the task at the pinnacle of
success with natural barriers to recognize.

What was possible, he has done and never to the impossible possible,
the better good-willed to do so, it never spurned, incurable by Uebel
Palliative least to alleviate. But he acknowledged that the fate
spoke, he always obeyed. Alexander am Hypanis, Napoleon went to Moscow
in order because they had the skill and angry that it is also his
favorite treat only limited success; Caesar is on the Thames and the
Rhine voluntarily declined and thought also on the Danube and the Euphrates
do not unmeasured Weltueberwindung the plans, but merely considered
border regulations to put into the works. -------------------------------------
^ 1 --------- When the trade with Laberius, the prologue tells the
well-known, as an example of Caesar Tyrannenlaunen has been adopted
by then you have the irony of the situation as thoroughly misunderstood
by the poet, quite apart from the naïvety that his fees willingly
once reaching Poetenfest be treated as martyrs.
------------------------------------- --------- So this was the
only man to be so easily seems to describe and yet so infinitely
difficult.

His whole nature is transparent clarity, and the tradition keep him on
extensive customer and livelier than on any of its pairs in the ancient
world.

One such personality was probably shallower or deeper, but not
actually be interpreted differently, each researcher not entirely wrong
is the high image with essentially the same trains appeared, and yet is
the same play has not yet been clearly successful. The secret lies in its
completion. Human history is like Caesar in the equation point to
what the great contradictions of life are intertwined cancel.

From huge Schoepferkraft but also by the pervasive understanding, no
longer young and not yet old, from the highest wool and demonstrating
the highest; met by republican ideals and yet born to Koenig, a
Roemer in the deepest core of his being and again invoked the Roman and
the Hellenic development as outwards towards reconciliation and to
marry, Caesar is the whole and complete man why there because even
with him more than any other historical personality characteristic of the
so-called trains, which in fact nothing more than Deviations from the
naturgemaessen human development. What the first superficial glance dafuer
is evident on closer examination not as individuality, but as owner
of the era or culture of the nation, since his youth as his
adventure with all equal talented contemporaries are common, his unpoetisches
but energetic nature the logical nature of Roemer over all. It belongs to
Caesar with full humanity, that he is in the highest grade by time and
place was due, because humanity itself does not exist, but the living
man can not do otherwise than to a particular Volkseigentuemlichkeit and
in a certain Kulturzug stand. Only in this way Caesar was a great man,
because he is like no other in the middle of the currents of his
time is had and because he is the robust characteristic of the Roman
nation, the real civil efficiency like no other age in itself has
contributed, as well as his only Hellenism of the Italian nationality
was a long Overgrown dearly.

But herein lies the difficulty, perhaps we should say the impossibility,
Caesar graphically depict. As the artist can do everything, just not the
perfect beauty, you can also write him where every thousand years
once the perfect encounter, only silent about it.

Because it allows the rule probably commend itself, but it gives us only
the negative idea of the absence of the defect, the mystery of nature,
in its complete, individuality and normality revelations linking
is unpronounceable.

We will not be happy with those prices, this looked perfect, and a
hint of that from the shadow to win, based on the nature of these large
works created imperishable rests. While these are also the stamp
of time. The Roman man was his own youthful Greek predecessor not
only equal but superior to the side, but the world was now old and her
youth faded shimmer. Caesar's activity is not more like the Alexanders
in a joyful Vorwaertsstreben the unmeasured vastness, he has built on and
from the ruins and was happy, once initiated in the wide, but limited
space possible returns and opportunities are set up. By law, because even
the finest poets of the beat to the Voelker unpoetischen Roemer
is not distressed and on the other hand, the son of Philip with all
the gold splendor of the poetry, with all the rainbow colors of the
legend holds.

But with the equal right of the public life of the nations for
millennia and over again on the lines zurueckgelenkt that Caesar has
withdrawn, and if the peoples to whom the world belongs, still with
his name the highest its monarchs mention, so is it a thoughtful, but
also a shameful reminder. If it should succeed, from the old in every
respect, healing and countless states out to rejuvenate the community,
it had above all things really calmed down the country and the bottom of
the rubble, the last disaster ago covered all over him, to be cleaned.
Caesar went out of the principle of reconciliation of the existing
parties, or, properly told - because of real compromise can not be
incongruous to speak - from the principle that the battlefield on
which the nobility and the popular so far had argued with each
other, of two parts and both had to give up on the floor of the new
monarchical constitution come together had said.

Above all, it was all so Hader older than the Republican past dismissed
forever and forever.
Next summer they would come again, yes; but, ah me' every one knows what
next summer is!


Part of the burlesque troupe rode down in the omnibus to the Grand Trunk

Ferry with them, and were good-natured to the last, having shaken hands
all round with the waiters, chambermaids, and porters of the hotel. The
young fellow with the bad amiable face came in a calash, and refused to
overpay the driver with a gay decision that made him Basil's envy till he
saw his tribulation in getting the troupe's luggage checked. There were
forty pieces, and it always remained a mystery, considering the small
amount of clothing necessary to those people on the stage, what could
have filled their trunks. The young man and the two English blondes of
American birth found places in the same car with our tourists, and
enlivened the journey with their frolics. When the young man pretended to
fall asleep, they wrapped his golden curly head in a shawl, and vexed him
with many thumps and thrusts, till he bought a brief truce with a handful
of almonds; and the ladies having no other way to eat them, one of them
saucily snatched off her shoe, and cracked them hammerwise with the heel.
It was all so pleasant that it ought to have been all right; and in their
merry world of outlawry perhaps things are not so bad as we like to think
them.

The country into which the train plunges as soon as Quebec is out of
sight is very stupidly savage, and our friends had little else to do but
to watch the gambols of the players, till they came to the river St.
Francis, whose wandering loveliness the road follows through an infinite
series of soft and beautiful landscapes, and finds everywhere glassing in
its smooth current the elms and willows of its gentle shores. At one
place, where its calm broke into foamy rapids, there was a huge saw mill,
covering the stream with logs and refuse, and the banks with whole cities
of lumber; which also they accepted as no mean elements of the
picturesque. They clung the most tenderly to traces of the peasant life
they were leaving. When some French boys came aboard with wild
raspberries to sell in little birch-bark canoes, they thrilled with
pleasure, and bought them, but sighed then, and said, "What thing
characteristic of the local life will they sell us in Maine when we get
there? A section of pie poetically wrapt in a broad leaf of the
squash-vine, or pop-corn in its native tissue-paper, and advertising the
new Dollar Store in Portland?" They saw the quaintness vanish from the
farm-houses; first the dormer-windows, then the curve of the steep roof,
then the steep roof itself. By and by they came to a store with a Grecian
portico and four square pine pillars. They shuddered and looked no more.

The guiltily dreaded examination of baggage at Island Pond took place at
nine o'clock, without costing them a cent of duty or a pang of
conscience. At that charming station the trunks are piled
higgledy-piggledy into a room beside the track, where a few inspectors
with stifling lamps of smoky kerosene await the passengers. There are no
porters to arrange the baggage, and each lady and gentleman digs out his
box, and opens it before the lordly inspector, who stirs up its contents
with an unpleasant hand and passes it. He makes you feel that you are
once more in the land of official insolence, and that, whatever you are
collectively, you are nothing personally. Isabel, who had sent her
husband upon this business with quaking meekness of heart, experienced
the bold indignation of virtue at his account of the way people were made
their own baggage-smashers, and would not be amused when he painted the
vile terrors of each husband as he tremblingly unlocked his wife's store
of contraband.

The morning light showed them the broad elmy meadows of western-looking
Maine; and the Grand Trunk brought them, of course, an hour behind time
into Portland. All breakfastless they hurried aboard the Boston train on
the Eastern Road, and all along that line (which is built to show how
uninteresting the earth can be when she is 'ennuyee' of both sea and
land), Basil's life became a struggle to construct a meal from the
fragmentary opportunities of twenty different stations where they stopped
five minutes for refreshments. At one place he achieved two cups of
shameless chickory, at another three sardines, at a third a dessert of
elderly bananas.

     "Home again, home again, from a foreign shore!"

they softly sang as the successive courses of this feast were disposed
of.

The drouth and heat, which they had briefly escaped during their sojourn
in Canada, brooded sovereign upon the tiresome landscape. The red granite
rocks were as if red-hot; the banks of the deep cuts were like ash heaps;
over the fields danced the sultry atmosphere; they fancied that they
almost heard the grasshoppers sing above the rattle of the train. When
they reached Boston at last, they were dustier than most of us would like
to be a hundred years hence. The whole city was equally dusty; and they
found the trees in the square before their own door gray with dust. The
bit of Virginia-creeper planted under the window hung shriveled upon its
trellis.

But Isabel's aunt met them with a refreshing shower of tears and kisses
in the hall, throwing a solid arm about each of them. "O you dears!" the
good soul cried, "you don't know how anxious I've been about you; so many
accidents happening all the time. I've never read the 'Evening
Transcript' till the next morning, for fear I should find your names
among the killed and wounded."

On the other hand, he broke even in the opposite direction and moved in
on Agedincum to Gewaltmaerschen to which it is possible Labienus hurry
back ordered.

The Celts tried naturally, the unification of the two Roman armies to
prevent. Labienus probably would have, on the Marne and putting on the
right bank of the Seine downstream marching, Agedincum can reach, where
he completed his reserve and his luggage had zurueckgelassen, but he
withdrew it before, the Celts are not yet the spectacle of the Roman
troops withdrawal to be granted. He therefore, instead of on the
Marne, a lot more under the eyes of the enemy cheated over the
Seine and delivered on the left bank of the hostile masses a battle
in which he won, and among many others, the Celtic captain himself,
the old Camulogenus on the Walstatt remained.

Nor was it the Insurgente, Caesar reside on the Loire; Caesar gave them no
time, where larger crowds to gather, and sprinkled Haeduer of the militias,
which he alone there that interrupts apart without effort. So was the
unification of the two happy Heerhaufen accomplished. The insurgents had
been on the other Kriegfuehrung in Bibracte (Autun), the capital of
Haeduer, geratschlagt, the soul of this discussion was again Vercingetorix,
after the victory of the nation Gergovia anhing excited. Although the
silent particularism even now not yet made the Haeduer death struggle in
this nation of their claims to hegemony and were submitted to the National
Assembly approved the application to the body of Vercingetorix one
of yours to set.

The country representatives had not just rejected and Vercingetorix in
supreme command, but also his war plan was adopted unchanged. It was
essentially the same, after he Avaricum Gergovia and had surgery. On the
pivotal point of the new position was a firm of City Mandubier, Alesia
(Alise Sainte-Reine in Semur in the department of Cote d'Or ^ 21),
chosen and under their walls Another entrenched camps created.

Ungeheure inventories were aufgehaeuft and the army of Gergovia there
beordert whose cavalry after decision of the State Assembly to 15,000
horses was brought. Caesar beat with his whole army of power after he was
reunited with Agedincum the direction of Vesontio, to now the
province geaengsteten to approach them and in front of a invasion
to protect, how, in fact Insurgentenscharen is already in the field
of Helvier on the south of the Cévennes were shown.

Alesia was almost on his way, and the cavalry of the Celts, the only weapon
with which to operate like Vercingetorix, took on him, but moved
to the astonishment of all the shorter against Caesars new German
squadrons and to instruct their backing Roman infantry.

Vercingetorix hastened more so in Alesia included, and if Caesar
is not over at all wanted to renounce the offensive, he was nothing
left when the third time in this campaign against one, under a
well-manned and fortified verproviantierten stored and with enormous
tab to send army with masses a far weaker attack approach.

However, if the Celts so far only a part of the Roman legions faced, it
was in the lines around Alesia Caesar's whole army united and succeeded
Vercingetorix not like it when Avaricum and Gergovia had succeeded his
people walk under the protection of the fortress walls and to his cavalry
through its links to the outside to be open, during which he broke the
enemy. The Celtic cavalry, already discouraged by those of the
geringgeschaetzten opponents have brought them defeat, was Caesar's
German Mounted in each meeting beaten. The Umwallungslinie the besieger
rose up in the extension of two German mile with the entire city including
the camp-like to them. In a battle under the walls of Vercingetorix was
taken, but not in Alesia to be under siege - this is sufficient for its
allegedly 80,000 infantry men and 15000 riders counting army and the
many city inhabitants laid the stocks, as they were handsome, but far
not. Vercingetorix had to convince that his war plan this time to his own
ruin ausgeschlagen and he was lost, wofern not the entire nation
and its enclosed herbeieilte commander freed. Yet sufficient, as
the Roman Umwallung be concluded from the available food for a month
and perhaps something about it, the last moment, where the path of least
Mounted was still free, Vercingetorix dismissed his entire cavalry and
sent simultaneously to the heads of the nation instructions, all
aufzubieten team and they Entsatz of Alesia basis. He himself, determined
to take responsibility for the design of his failed war plan and also
personally to bear remained in the fortress, in the good and evil,
the fate of the divide with him.

But Caesar made himself taken at the same time, to besiege and besieged
them. He also directed his Umwallungslinie on the outside of defense,
providing in a long time with food. The days verflossen; already had one
in the fort no longer Malterdingen cereals, even the unfortunate city
dwellers have to drive out to hide between the Celts and the Romans,
both ruthlessly rejected umzukommen miserable. Since, in the last hour,
after Caesar's lines showed the incalculable trains of Celtic-Belgian
Entsatzheeres, allegedly 250000 man on foot and 8000 horsemen. From the
Channel to the Cévennes insurgierten Gaue had strained every nerve
to the core of their patriots, the commander of their choice to
save - only the Bellovaker had replied that she was against the
Romans, but not outside their own borders to fight were minded .

The first storm of the besieged from Alesia and Entsatztruppen outside
on the Roman double line took was amputated, but after a day's rest was
the same again, it succeeded to a point where the Umwallungslinie about
the slope of a mountain hinlief and its height down could be attacked,
the trenches zuzuschuetten and the defenders of the Wall herunterzuwerfen.
Then she took Labienus, sent here by Caesar, the next cohort, and threw
himself with four legions to the enemy. Under the eyes of the commander,
who even in the most dangerous moment seemed, were in desperate Nahgefecht
the Stuermenden zurueckgejagt and Caesar arrived with the refugees in
the back making riders flocked completed the defeat. It was more than a
great victory; about Alesia, yes about the Celtic nation was irrevocably
decided. The Keltenheer, totally disheartened, went directly from
the battlefield back home. Vercingetorix would have perhaps even more
now to flee, at least by the last resort of free men that can deliver,
he did not, but declared the war that, since he had not succeeded,
the foreign rule to break, he was ready to be a victim add and to the
extent possible the destruction of the nation upon his head off. So
it happened. The Celtic gave their officers from around the nation
solemnly chosen commander of the enemy country from the appropriate
punishment. On horseback and in full arms appeared in the Beautiful Koenig
Arverni before the Roman proconsul and umritt the Tribunal; that he gave
Ross and weapons and left in silence on the steps of Caesar's feet down
(702 52). Five years later he was in triumph through the streets of the
Italian capital, and as Hochverraeter at the Roman nation, while his
overcomers the gods that the festival thanks to the height of the Capitol
darbrachte, at whose foot beheaded. As under cloudy most days lost in the
sinking sun breaks through, it gives the skill setting peoples
probably still one last great man So is the outcome of the Phoenician
Hannibal history, to say the Celtic Vercingetorix.

Neither could his nation from foreign rule to rescue, but they have the
last remaining disgrace, an inglorious downfall countless saves.
Also Vercingetorix has ebenwie the Carthaginians not merely against the
enemy country have to fight, but especially against the anti-national
opposition injured aufgestoerter egoists and cowards, as they regularly
accompanies degenerated civilization; him secure his place in history
not his battles and sieges, but that he has managed a zerfahrenen and
particularism degenerate nation in his person a central point to
stop and give.

And yet there are hardly any sharper than the contrast between the sober
man of Buergermeister Phoenician city with its purchase, to a great goal
and fifty years with unchanging energy directed plans, and the Celts
of kuehne Fuersten country whose violence both with his magnanimous
sacrifice, includes a short summer. The whole antiquity knows no knight
man in his innermost nature as in its outer appearance. But man is not a
knight, and least of the statesman. It was the knight, not the hero,
which it spurned, from Alesia to save, while at it alone, but the
nation was located more than one hundred thousand ordinary brave men. It
was the knight, not the hero, who as a victim devotion, where the
victim was achieved nothing more than that the nation publicly dishonored
and just how absurd FEIG with their last breath their death struggle
in world history is a crime against their Zwingherrn called. How so very
different in the same assets traded Hannibal! It is not possible without
the participation and human history of the noble Arvernerkoenig to
distinguish, but it belongs to the signature of the Celtic nation, that
their greatest man but was just a knight. -------------- -------------------------------
^ 21 The recently much discussed question whether Alesia not much more
in Alaïs (25 km south of Mizzen ‡ on, Dep. Doubs) to recognize that all
is right with prudent researchers have been denied. ----------------------------
----------------- The fall of Alesia and the surrender of the army was
trapped daselbst for Celtic Insurrektion a terrible blow, however, it
had already ebensoschwere the nation was affected, but the struggle
again been renewed. But Vercingetorix 'loss was irreplaceable. With him
was the unity in the nation has come, it seemed she again escaped. We
do not consider the Insurrektion an attempt made to continue the
overall defense and another to appoint Mr. Oberfeld; Patriot Confederation
fell apart by itself and each clan was about it, as it is popular with
the Romans to fight or to tolerate. Of course consistently outweighed
the desire for peace. Caesar also had an interest in quickly coming to
an end. Of the ten years of his governorship, seven passed. The last
but by his political opponents in the capital, he questioned, only two
summer nor could he expect with some certainty, and if his interest as
his honor demanded that he re-gained his successor landscapes in a
fair level and somewhat calmed Peace Stand over, it was to establish
such a connection, the time and they truly barren. Grace was to practice
in this case even more than for the vanquished need for the winner,
and he was allowed to praise his star that the inner Zerfahrenheit and
lightweight nature of the Celts him midway herein entgegenkam. Where, as
in the two most prestigious Central Gaulish Canton, the Haeduer and the
Arverni, a strong-minded Roman party, were the landscapes immediately
after the fall of Alesia, the complete restoration of their previous
conditions to Rome, and even granted its inmates, 20000 to the number,
dismissed without ransom, while the other clans in the hard servitude
of the victorious legionaries came. As the Haeduer and Arverni was all
over the greater part of the Welsh districts in his fate and left
without further resistance, the inevitable criminal about to be
taken.

But do not wait in a few foolish recklessness or dull despair at the
lost cause, until the Roman execution troops within its borders
appeared. Such expeditions were still in winter 702/03 (52/51) against the
Biturigen and Carnuten undertaken. Ernst resisted the Bellovaker the
year before by the Entsatz Alesias are excluded had they seemed to
want to prove that they are on that critical number of days
at least not from lack of courage and love of freedom had lacked. It
took part in this struggle the Atrebates, Ambiani, Caleten and other
Belgian Gaue, the valiant king of Atrebates, Commius, which Roemer his
accession to Insurrektion least forgiven and against the recently Labienus
even a distasteful attempt treacherous murder of commerce, led the
Bellovakern 500 German Reiter, whose value of last year's campaign had
to know teach. The determined and talented Bellovaker Correus, the
top management of the war had been falling, led to war, like Vercingetorix
had led him, and with no small success; Caesar, although he and the greatest
part of his army heranzog, could the people of the foot Bellovaker not
get to hitting, or even prevent the same, other, against Caesars Reinforced
army better protection einzunehmen positions, but the Roman rider,
including the Celtic contingents suffered in various skirmishes with the
enemy's cavalry, especially the German Commius of the most sensitive losses.
Solo after a skirmish with the Roman Fouragierern Correus death found, the
resistance was broken again, the winner was tolerable conditions, to which
the Bellovaker along with their allies are subdued. The fidelity has
been through obedience to Labienus zurueckgebracht and passing to the
area of proscribed Eburones again crossed and devastated. So was the last
resistance of the Belgian Confederation broken. Even an attempt to reign
the Romans to help, made the Seegaue in conjunction with their
neighbors on the Loire. Insurgentenscharen from the Andean, the carnutischen
and other surrounding Gauen gathered at the lower Loire and besieged in
Lemonum (Poitiers) the Roman-minded Fuersten of Picton. Solo also
soon became a respectable Roman power against them, the Insurgente,
the siege and withdrew from the Loire between himself and the enemy
to bring, but were on the march then sought and beaten, whereupon
the Carnuten and other insurgent Canton, even the Seegaue their
subjugation superb.

The resistance was at an end, that hardly a single Freischarenfuehrer here
and there is the national banner held upright. The kuehne Drappes and
Vercingetorix Waffengefaehrte Lucterius faithful gathered after the
dissolution of the united army of the Loire and the most willing to throw
this into the solid mountain town ^ Uxellodunum on Lot 22, among them
the loss and severe enough to combat full verproviantieren succeeded.
Perhaps this was because they had not seen the Campagna
or its aqueducts for a great while; but they were so glad to find
themselves in the spirit of their former journey again that they were
amiable to everything. When the children first caught sight of the lake's
delicious blue, and cried out that it was lovelier than the sea, they
felt quite a local pride in their preference. It was what Isabel had said
twelve years before, on first beholding the lake.

But they did not really see the lake till they had taken the train for
Niagara Falls, after breakfasting in the depot, where the children, used
to the severe native or the patronizing Irish ministrations of Boston
restaurants and hotels, reveled for the first time in the affectionate
devotion of a black waiter. There was already a ridiculous abundance and
variety on the table; but this waiter brought them strawberries and again
strawberries, and repeated plates of griddle cakes with maple syrup; and
he hung over the back of first one chair and then another with an
unselfish joy in the appetites of the breakfasters which gave Basil
renewed hopes of his race. "Such rapture in serving argues a largeness of
nature which will be recognized hereafter," he said, feeling about in his
waistcoat pocket for a quarter. It seemed a pity to render the waiter's
zeal retroactively interested, but in view of the fact that he possibly
expected the quarter, there was nothing else to do; and by a mysterious
stroke of gratitude the waiter delivered them into the hands of a friend,
who took another quarter from them for carrying their bags and wraps to
the train. This second retainer approved their admiration of the
aesthetic forms and colors of the depot colonnade; and being asked if
that were the depot whose roof had fallen in some years before, proudly
replied that it was.

"There were a great many killed, were n't there?" asked Basil, with
sympathetic satisfaction in the disaster. The porter seemed humiliated;
he confessed the mortifying truth that the loss of life was small, but he
recovered a just self-respect in adding, "If the roof had fallen in five
minutes sooner, it would have killed about three hundred people."

Basil had promised the children a sight of the Rapids before they reached
the Falls, and they held him rigidly accountable from the moment they
entered the train, and began to run out of the city between the river and
the canal. He attempted a diversion with the canal boats, and tried to
bring forward the subject of Rudder Grange in that connection. They said
that the canal boats were splendid, but they were looking for the Rapids
now; and they declined to be interested in a window in one of the boats,
which Basil said was just like the window that the Rudder Granger and the
boarder had popped Pomona out of when they took her for a burglar.

"You spoil those children, Basil," said his wife, as they clambered over
him, and clamored for the Rapids.

"At present I'm giving them an object-lesson in patience and self-denial;
they are experiencing the fact that they can't have the Rapids till they
get to them, and probably they'll be disappointed in them when they
arrive."

In fact, they valued the Rapids very little more than the Hoosac Tunnel,
when they came in sight of them, at last; and Basil had some question in
his own mind whether the Rapids had not dwindled since his former visit.
He did not breathe this doubt to Isabel, however, and she arrived at the
Falls with unabated expectations. They were going to spend only half a
day there; and they turned into the station, away from the phalanx of
omnibuses, when they dismounted from their train. They seemed, as before,
to be the only passengers who had arrived, and they found an abundant
choice of carriages waiting in the street, outside the station. The
Niagara hackman may once have been a predatory and very rampant animal,
but public opinion, long expressed through the public prints, has reduced
him to silence and meekness. Apparently, he may not so much as beckon
with his whip to the arriving wayfarer; it is certain that he cannot
cross the pavement to the station door; and Basil, inviting one of them
to negotiation, was himself required by the attendant policeman to step
out to the curbstone, and complete his transaction there. It was an
impressive illustration of the power of a free press, but upon the whole
Basil found the effect melancholy; it had the saddening quality which
inheres in every sort of perfection. The hackman, reduced to entire
order, appealed to his compassion, and he had not the heart to beat him
down from his moderate first demand, as perhaps he ought to have done.
They drove directly to the cataract, and found themselves in the pretty
grove beside the American Fall, and in the air whose dampness was as
familiar as if they had breathed it all their childhood. It was full now
of the fragrance of some sort of wild blossom; and again they had that
old, entrancing sense of the mingled awfulness and loveliness of the
great spectacle. This sylvan perfume, the gayety of the sunshine, the
mildness of the breeze that stirred the leaves overhead, and the
bird-singing that made itself heard amid the roar of the rapids and the
solemn incessant plunge of the cataract, moved their hearts, and made
them children with the boy and girl, who stood rapt for a moment and then
broke into joyful wonder. They could sympathize with the ardor with which
Tom longed to tempt fate at the brink of the river, and over the tops of
the parapets which have been built along the edge of the precipice, and
they equally entered into the terror with which Bella screamed at his
suicidal zeal. They joined her in restraining him; they reduced him to a
beggarly account of half a dozen stones, flung into the Rapids at not
less than ten paces from the brink; and they would not let him toss the
smallest pebble over the parapet, though he laughed to scorn the notion
that anybody should be hurt by them below.

It seemed to them that the triviality of man in the surroundings of the
Falls had increased with the lapse of time. Of this you have not had
much of the total grant to the stage of the dead poets, we find the
time Cicerone and the Alexandrinismus did not resist. His productivity
in this area was worse than none. A real Buehnendichtung the Alexandrian
American literature never knew, and only after the tragedy, first for
reading, not to the performance was written, it was established in
Italy, and soon began because these dramatic Jambes also said in Rome as
well as to Alexandreia rage and grief including the letter of the game
is developing diseases figure. What were these productions, we can
then approximately calculated that Quintus Cicero to the boredom of the
winter quarter Gallic homeopathically distribute, in sixteen days,
four tragedies manufactures. Only in the "living picture" or the Mimus
verwuchs the last green shoot of the national literature, which
Atellanenposse, with the ethological offshoots of Greek comedy, the
Alexandrinismus poetic with greater force and better success than
any other branch of poetry cultivated.

The Mimus emerged from the long-usual Charaktertaenzen for flute, sometimes
on other occasions, notably for the entertainment of guests during the
panel, especially in some of the theater floor during the intermediate
file were listed. It was not difficult, from these dances, in which the
speech is a long occasionally for help was made by introducing a more
orderly and fable of a proper dialogue comedies to make small, but
from the earlier comedy, and even the farce but it is still significantly
different that the dance and the dance of such unzertrennliche lasciviousness
continuing drove a major role to play, and that the Mimus, when not actually
on the boards, but on the ground at home, every scenic Idealization
as face masks and the theater shoes, aside and threw what was
especially important to women's roles by women did. This new Mimus, the
first of 672 (82) on the metropolitan stage came to seem to be quickly
devoured the national Harlekinade with which he is the most
important relationships collapse, and became as the usual mid-term and
especially after playing alongside the other plays used ^ 4 The fable was
of course still indifferent, and a great relaxed than in the Harlekinade;
if only herging bunt, then asked the audience do not understand why it
laughed and rechtete not the poet, who, instead of the node to solve
it zerhieb. The subjects were mostly love nature, mostly from the irreverent
variety; against the husband, for example, was attended by poet and
audience, without exception, and the party was poetic justice in the mockery
of morality. The artistic charm as based entirely on the Atellane on
the painting of common decency and common life, with rural images
facing the metropolitan bustle and life of retirement, and sweet rabble
of Rome, just as in the similar pieces of Greek Alexandreia, is asked ,
his own portrait to beklatschen. Many substances are extracted from the
craftsman lives: it also shows the inevitable 'Walker', then 'the rope',
'The Faerber,' The salt man ',' The weavers', 'The dog boy'; other pieces
give character figures' of forgetfulness ',' The Big Foot ',' The man of
100000 Sestertius' ^ 5; or pictures from abroad: 'The Etruskerin', 'The
Gauls',' The Kretenser ',' Alexandreia ', or descriptions of folk:' The
Compitalien ' , 'The Saturnalia', 'Anna Perenna', 'The hot bath'; or
travestierte mythology: 'The journey into the underworld', 'The Arverni
lake'. Treff end strike words and short, easy to use and keeps
Gemeinsprueche are welcome, but also has any nonsense from the civil
law itself: in this world is wrong Bacchus to water, the source of
wine nymph addressed. Even the Roman theater in the otherwise strictly
prohibited political allusions can be found in these mimes are
individual examples ^ 6 As for the metric form is concerned, it gave
these poets, as they themselves say that "only moderate difficulty with
the Versemass", the language itself streamed in to the publication
of edited pieces of Vulgaerausdruecken and common word combinations.

It is, as you can see, nothing much of Mimus than the current farce,
except that the character masks, and the following scene from
Atella and the rural character and get eliminated the metropolitan
life in its boundless freedom and insolence on the boards comes.

Most pieces of this type were undoubtedly fleeting nature and were not
entitled to a place in the literature, but the mimes of Laberius full
dramatic character drawing and linguistically and metric in nature
most probably treated in the same claims, and the historian must regret
that we are no longer allowed, the drama of the agony in republican
Rome, with its big screen counterpart Attican to compare. ------------------------
---------------------------- ^ 4 That the Mimus its time to take the place
of Atellane force was witnessed Cicero (ad fam. 9 16), thereby agrees
that the mimes and Miminnen first to emerge sullanische time (Rhet. Her
1, 14, 24, 2, 13, 19; Atta com. 1 Ribbeck.; Plin. nat. 7, 48 , 158,
Plut. Sull. z. 36). the way the term is sometimes inaccurately mimus
from all over the Komoeden needed.

It was during the Apollo Festival celebration niche 542/43 212/211
occurring mimus (Festus v. salva res est; see Cic. De ESPON. 2, 59,
242) seems nothing but an actor of palliata, because for real mimes
in the late sense at this time in the Roman Theater Development Area no.
Mimus At the time of classical Greek, prose dialogues, in which genre
pictures, including rural, have been shown, the Roman Mimus no closer
relationship. ^ 5 with the possession of this sum, thus one vote in the
first class and the inheritance occurs Voconischen the law, the limit
is exceeded, the low (tenuiores) by the good citizens retires. That
also begs the poor client Catullus (23, 26) to the gods, to him for this
property to date. ^ 6 In Laberius' journey into the underworld 'meets all
sorts of people to the wonders and miraculous signs were seen, one is
a husband with two women appeared, as the neighbor says that it is
still worse than that of a soothsayer recently saw vision of six Aedilen.
Namely Caesar wanted - after the gossip of the time - to introduce
Vielweiberei in Rome (Suet. CAES. 82) and appointed, in fact, instead of
four Aedilen whose six. One sees this also, that fools Laberius right
to practice freedom and Caesar fools to permit understood.
--------------------------------- ------------------- The nullity of
Buehnenliteratur goes hand in hand to increase the Buehnenspiels and
Buehnenpracht. Dramatic performances were given their regular place
in public life not only the capital but also the Landstaedte, including
those now finally got a standing by Pompey Theater (699 55) and the
Campanian-American custom, during the ancient times, always in the open
air show held at Protection of players and spectators of the sail
over the ceiling to stretch the theater, was also now included in
Rome (676 78).

As currently in Greece for more than seven pale stars of the Alexandrian
playwright, but the classical drama, particularly the richest
Euripideische tragedy unfolding in the scenic Central Stage claimed
that it was also in Rome Cicero time preferably matches the grief
of Ennius, Pacuvius and Accius the comedies of Plautus, where.

If the latter in the previous period by the tasteful, but admittedly less
comic force Terence had been ousted, it worked and now Roscius Varro,
that means the theater and the literature together to make a similar
Wiederaufstehung to prepare, as by Shakespeare Garrick and Johnson
befell; and Plautus had decreased by the recipient and the troubled
by the haste of the short and lotterigen antics spoiled audience
to suffer, so that the length of the Directorate Plautinischen
comedies to apologize, maybe even to delete and modify saw itself
forced.

The Limited was the repertoire, the more targeted both the activities
and death of the conducting staff, as well as the interest of the
public on the scenic representation of the pieces. Hardly existed in Rome
a lucrative industry than that of the actor and dancer of the first order.
The Princely fortunes of the tragic actor Aesopus was already mentioned,
its still higher celebrated contemporary Roscius beat its annual revenue
at 600000 Sestertius (46000 thalers) in ^ 7 and the dancer, the Dionysia
theirs to 200000 Sestertius (15000 thalers). In addition, we turned huge
sums on decorations and costumes: occasionally exceeded six hundred
trains of mules aufgeschirrten across the stage and the troische
Theaterheer was used to give the audience a map of the pattern of
Pompey defeated nations in Asia must be provided.

The presentation of the inserted Gesangstuecke accompanying music also
gained greater importance and independent, like the wind, the waves,
says Varro, it distracts the Floetenspieler trained the minds of listeners
with every variation on the melody. They are accustomed to the pace
faster and coerced by the actor were lively action. The musical and
Buehnenkennerschaft developed; the Habitue each Tonstueck recognized at
the first grade and knew the lyrics memorized, each musical recitation
or error was strictly criticized by the audience.

Lebhaft reminiscent of the Roman Buehnenwesen Cicerone time at today's
French theater. As the loose Tagesstuecke tableaux of the Roman Mimus
corresponds, for the like for those not too good and nothing too bad,
so also is the same in both traditional classical tragedy and comedy,
to be admired or at least to the educated man beklatschen by law because
of obligation. The quantity will be satisfied by the Posse themselves
reflected in the dramatic decorative pomp anstaunt and the general
impression of an ideal world, receives, takes care of the higher
educated in the theater is not the plot, but only to the artistic
presentation.

Finally the Roman dramatic art itself fluctuated in its various spheres,
similar to the French, between Chaumière and the salon.

It was not unusual for the Roman dancers at the finals, the upper garment
abwarfen and the audience in a dance shirts were the best, but
was also the Roman Talma as the highest law of his art is not the nature
of truth, but the Ebenmass. --- --------------------------------------------------
--- ^ 7, he was awarded by the state for every match 1000 denarii (300
crowns) and also pay for his troops. In later years he drew for the fee
back. --------------------------------------- ----------------- In the
recitatives poetry seems to metric chronicles the lines of the Ennianischen
not to have missed, but it should be sufficient to be criticized by those
like Maedchengeluebde of which Catullus Singing: the holy Venus, if she
loved the man from his evil political poetry her back into the arms
lead to the worst of the bad poetry heroes sacrifice to fire. In fact,
on the whole territory of the recitatives poetry in this era, the earlier
tendency nationalroemische only by a single well-known works
represented, but also among the most poetic products of Roman
literature ever heard about.

It is the Lehrgedicht of Titus Lucretius Carus (655-699 99-55) 'From the
nature of things', whose author, the best circles of Roman society nationals
from public life but, whether through ill health, either through reluctance
away, shortly before the outbreak of the Civil War in the best old man
died. As a poet he made Ennius to vigorously and thus to the classical
Greek literature.

Unwilling he turns away from the "hollow Hellenism" of his time
and is committed with all your soul and heart than the students of the
"strict Greeks," as Thucydides because even the holy seriousness in one
of the most famous sections of this Roman seal no undignified echoed
found has. How Epicharmos Ennius in his wisdom and Euhemeros draws so
Lucretius borrowed the form of its presentation to Empedocles, "the
magnificent treasure of the rich gave sizilischen island", and reads the
material for "the golden words from all of the roles of Epikuros", "what
outshines other ways, such as the sun dims the stars. " How Ennius
Lucretius also spurned by the poetry of the Alexandrinismus aufgelastete
mythological erudition and asks nothing of its readers than the general
knowledge of the familiar tales ^ 8 This modern purism in spite of the
foreign words from the poetry auswies, Lucretius is, as Ennius done
rather dull and indistinct Latin prefers the Greek word significant.
The Roman alliteration, the non-interlocking of the verse and sentence
cuts and generally speaking the older and sealing manner still encounter
frequent in Lucretius' rhythms, and although he treated the melodic verse
as Ennius, then wallow in hexameter but its not like the school of
modern poets dainty equal to the bouncy trickling creeks, but with
massive slowness equal to the flows of liquid gold.

Even philosophically and practically opposed to Lucretius by Ennius to the
only indigenous poet, the poem celebrates his, the creed of the singer of
Rudiae: Himmelsgoetter admittedly there, says' I say otherwise, and I
still, however, they do not care route, my 'I was lot of people also means
completely Lucretius' religious views and not unjustly so, he cites his
own song at the same time the continuation of the us Ennius sang, the
laurel wreath of unverwelklichen first brought' from the Helikon lovely
groves, That Italy peoples he radiant 'in shining glory.
----------------------------------------- ---------- ^ 8 Individual
apparent exceptions, such as incense Panchaea country are out to
explain that this is from the novel of the journey Euhemeros perhaps
already in the Ennianische poetry, at least in the poems of Lucius
Manlius ( Plin. nat. 10, 2, 4) and therefore transferred to the
audience, for the Lucretius wrote, was well known. --------------------------
------------------------- Again, for the last still resounds in
Lucretius' poem of the poet all the pride and the whole of the sixth
poet Ernst century in which, in the images of the terrible Poener
and the wonderful Scipiaden, the view of the poet is an alien in
his own fall in time ^ 9 Even him sounds of their own "from the
mind of dainty quillende 'singing songs against the nasty over" as
against the clamor the cranes, the short song of the swan ", but
it swells the heart, the melodies selbsterfundenen eavesdropping,
of high honor Hope - ebenwie Ennius the people, which he called"
the fire kredenzet song from the deep chest, "prohibits, in his,
the immortal singer grave to mourn. ----------------------------------------------
- ^ 9 this seems naive in the war stories in which the heerverderbenden
Seestuerme to crush its own people flocked elephant, so images from
the Punic wars, appear as they belonged to the immediate present.

See 2, 41; 5, 1226, 1303, 1339th ------------------------------------
----------- It is a strange fate that this immensely, in their
original poetic talent most, if not all his predecessors far superior
talent in a time had fallen, in which it itself is strange and
orphaned feel and result in the unique way in is out of print
fabrics.

Epikuros' system, which the universe into a large vortex atom
transforms and the emergence and the end of the world and all the
problems of nature and life in a purely mechanical manner taking
was probably slightly less silly than the Mythenhistorisierung how
Euhemeros and after him Ennius they had tried, but a witty and fresh
system it was not, and the task now even these mechanical worldview
to develop poetic, was of the kind that probably never be a poet
to a thankless fabric of life and art has wasted.

The philosophical reader chides in the Lucretischen Lehrgedicht
the deletion of a finer crux of the system, the surface especially in
the presentation of the controversy, the defective structure, the
frequent repetitions with equal rights, as the poetic to the rhythmic
math is annoyed that a large part of the poem is almost unreadable. Despite
these incredible deficiencies, each mediocre talent would have inevitably
have to succumb, this poet was rightly boast of a new poetic
wilderness wreath worn them to have, like the Muses had not yet
awarded, and there are no parables only the occasional loaded and
other powerful natural phenomena descriptions and more powerful
passions, which the poet bought this wreath.

The genius of life, such as the poetry of Lucretius is resting on his
unbelief, what with the full force victory of truth and therefore with
the full vividness of poetry to the prevailing Heuchel or superstition
gegenuebertrat and was allowed to occur. When he saw the blighted
existence of mankind is Jammervoll on the earth, crushed by the burden
of fear of God, The Himmelsgewoelb from revealing their faces, to show
true, down to the mortal threat, daring 'is a Greek man, the first mortal
entgegenzuheben your eye, first against her, And the power of bold thinking
won; huge Trat he also about the flaming limits of the universe and
understanding the spirit passed through the infinite whole. So, strove the
poet, to overthrow the gods, as Brutus the fallen kings, and "the nature
of their strict masters to redeem." But not against weak throne Jovis old
were these words hurled flames; ebenwie Ennius fighting Lucretius, above
all, practically against the deserts outside and superstition of the
volume, the cult of the Great Mother for example, and the lightning
childish wisdom of the Etruscans. The horror and disgust against the
horrific world about anything, in and for the poet wrote this poem have
entered. It was written in that desperate time, where the regiment of
the oligarchy and the fallen Caesar was not yet erected, in humid years,
during which the outbreak of the Civil War in a long awaited
was embarrassing. If the disparate and troubled speech anzufuehlen it
says that the poet daily expected, the deserts of noise about the
Revolution and his work befall to see, this is also his opinion of the
people and things do not remember in what people and in view of what
things he created. It was in Greece in the period before Alexander output
visible and best of all heartfelt words that are not born to be
the best of all, the best naechstdem but had to die.

If she and Basil had broken
each other's hearts and parted, would not the fragments of their lives
have been on a much finer, much higher plane? Had not the commonplace,
every-day experiences of marriage vulgarized them both? To be sure, there
were the children; but if they had never had the children, she would
never have missed them; and if Basil had, for example, died just before
they were married--She started from this wicked reverie, and ran towards
her husband, whose broad, honest back, with no visible neck or
shirt-collar, was turned towards her, as he stood, with his head thrown
up, studying a time-table on the wall; she passed her arm convulsively
through his, and pulled him away.

"It's time to be getting our bags out to the train, Basil! Come, Bella!
Tom, we're going!"

The children reluctantly turned from the newsman's trumpery, and they all
went out to the track, and took seats on the benches under the colonnade.
While they waited; the train for Buffalo drew in, and they remained
watching it till it started. In the last car that passed them, when it
was fairly under way, a face looked full at Isabel from one of the
windows. In that moment of astonishment she forgot to observe whether it
was sad or glad; she only saw, or believed she saw, the light of
recognition dawn into its eyes, and then it was gone.

"Basil!" she cried, "stop the train! That was Kitty Ellison!"

"Oh no, it wasn't," said Basil, easily. "It looked like her; but it
looked at least ten years older."

"Why, of course it was! We're all ten years older," returned his wife in
such indignation at his stupidity that she neglected to insist upon his
stopping the train, which was rapidly diminishing in the perspective.

He declared it was only a fancied resemblance; she contended that this
was in the neighborhood of Eriecreek, and it must be Kitty; and thus one
of their most inveterate disagreements began.

Their own train drew into the depot, and they disputed upon the fact in
question till they entered on the passage of the Suspension Bridge. Then
Basil rose and called the children to his side. On the left hand, far up
the river, the great Fall shows, with its mists at its foot and its
rainbow on its brow, as silent and still as if it were vastly painted
there; and below the bridge on the right, leap the Rapids in the narrow
gorge, like seas on a rocky shore. "Look on both sides, now," he said to
the children. "Isabel you must see this!"

Isabel had been preparing for the passage of this bridge ever since she
left Boston. "Never!" she exclaimed. She instantly closed her eyes, and
hid her face in her handkerchief. Thanks to this precaution of hers, the
train crossed the bridge in perfect safety.


PG EDITORS BOOKMARKS:

    All luckiest or the unluckiest, the healthiest or the sickest
    All the loveliness that exists outside of you, dearest is little
    Amusing world, if you do not refuse to be amused
    At heart every man is a smuggler
    Beautiful with the radiance of loving and being loved
    Bewildering labyrinth of error
    Biggest place is always the kindest as well as the cruelest
    Brown-stone fronts
    Civilly protested and consented
    Coldly and inaccessibly vigilant
    Collective silence which passes for sociality
    Deadly summer day
    Dinner unites the idea of pleasure and duty
    Dog that had plainly made up his mind to go mad
    Evil which will not let a man forgive his victim
    Feeblest-minded are sure to lead the talk
    Feeling of contempt for his unambitious destination
    Feeling rather ashamed,--for he had laughed too
    Glad; which considering, they ceased to be
    Guilty rapture of a deliberate dereliction
    Happiness built upon and hedged about with misery
    Happiness is so unreasonable
    Headache darkens the universe while it lasts
    Heart that forgives but does not forget
    Helplessness accounts for many heroic facts in the world
    Helplessness begets a sense of irresponsibility
    I supposed I had the pleasure of my wife's acquaintance
    I want to be sorry upon the easiest possible terms
    I'm not afraid--I'm awfully demoralized
    Indulge safely in the pleasures of autobiography
    It 's the same as a promise, your not saying you wouldn't
    It had come as all such calamities come, from nothing
    Jesting mood in the face of all embarrassments
    Long life of holidays which is happy marriage
    Married the whole mystifying world of womankind
    Muddy draught which impudently affected to be coffee
    Never could have an emotion without desiring to analyze it
    Nothing so apt to end in mutual dislike,--except gratitude
    Nothing so sad to her as a bride, unless it's a young mother
    Oblivion of sleep
    Only so much clothing as the law compelled
    Parkman
    Patronizing spirit of travellers in a foreign country
    Rejoice in everything that I haven't done
    Seemed the last phase of a world presently to be destroyed
    Self-sufficiency, without its vulgarity
    So hard to give up doing anything we have meant to do
    So old a world and groping still
    The knowledge of your helplessness in any circumstances
    There is little proportion about either pain or pleasure
    They can only do harm by an expression of sympathy
    Tragical character of heat
    Used to having his decisions reached without his knowledge
    Vexed by a sense of his own pitifulness
    Voice of the common imbecility and incoherence
    Weariness of buying
    Willingness to find poetry in things around them


A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES

By William Dean Howells


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL

The following story was the first fruit of my New York life when I began
to live it after my quarter of a century in Cambridge and Boston, ending
in 1889; and I used my own transition to the commercial metropolis in
framing the experience which was wholly that of my supposititious
literary adventurer. He was a character whom, with his wife, I have
employed in some six or eight other stories, and whom I made as much the
hero and heroine of 'Their Wedding Journey' as the slight fable would
bear. In venturing out of my adoptive New England, where I had found
myself at home with many imaginary friends, I found it natural to ask the
company of these familiar acquaintances, but their company was not to be
had at once for the asking. When I began speaking of them as Basil and
Isabel, in the fashion of 'Their Wedding Journey,' they would not respond
with the effect of early middle age which I desired in them. They
remained wilfully, not to say woodenly, the young bridal pair of that
romance, without the promise of novel functioning. It was not till I
tried addressing them as March and Mrs. March that they stirred under my
hand with fresh impulse, and set about the work assigned them as people
in something more than their second youth.

The scene into which I had invited them to figure filled the largest
canvas I had yet allowed myself; and, though 'A Hazard of New Fortunes
was not the first story I had written with the printer at my heels, it
was the first which took its own time to prescribe its own dimensions. I
had the general design well in mind when I began to write it, but as it
advanced it compelled into its course incidents, interests,
individualities, which I had not known lay near, and it specialized and
amplified at points which I had not always meant to touch, though I
should not like to intimate anything mystical in the fact. It became, to
my thinking, the most vital of my fictions, through my quickened interest
in the life about me, at a moment of great psychological import. We had
passed through a period of strong emotioning in the direction of the
humaner economics, if I may phrase it so; the rich seemed not so much to
despise the poor, the poor did not so hopelessly repine. The solution of
the riddle of the painful earth through the dreams of Henry George,
through the dreams of Edward Bellamy, through the dreams of all the
generous visionaries of the past, seemed not impossibly far off. That
shedding of blood which is for the remission of sins had been symbolized
by the bombs and scaffolds of Chicago, and the hearts of those who felt
the wrongs bound up with our rights, the slavery implicated in our
liberty, were thrilling with griefs and hopes hitherto strange to the
average American breast. Opportunely for me there was a great street-car
strike in New York, and the story began to find its way to issues nobler
and larger than those of the love-affairs common to fiction. I was in my
fifty-second year when I took it up, and in the prime, such as it was, of
my powers. The scene which I had chosen appealed prodigiously to me, and
the action passed as nearly without my conscious agency as I ever allow
myself to think such things happen.

The opening chapters were written in a fine, old fashioned apartment
house which had once been a family house, and in an uppermost room of
which I could look from my work across the trees of the little park in
Stuyvesant Square to the towers of St. George's Church. Then later in the
spring of 1889 the unfinished novel was carried to a country house on the
Belmont border of Cambridge. There I must have written very rapidly to
have pressed it to conclusion before the summer ended. It came, indeed,
so easily from the pen that I had the misgiving which I always have of
things which do not cost me great trouble.

There is nothing in the book with which I amused myself more than the
house-hunting of the Marches when they were placing themselves in New
York; and if the contemporary reader should turn for instruction to the
pages in which their experience is detailed I assure him that he may
trust their fidelity and accuracy in the article of New York housing as
it was early in the last decade of the last century: I mean, the housing
of people of such moderate means as the Marches. In my zeal for truth I
did not distinguish between reality and actuality in this or other
matters--that is, one was as precious to me as the other. But the types
here portrayed are as true as ever they were, though the world in which
they were finding their habitat is wonderfully, almost incredibly
different. Yet it is not wholly different, for a young literary pair now
adventuring in New York might easily parallel the experience of the
Marches with their own, if not for so little money; many phases of New
York housing are better, but all are dearer. Other aspects of the
material city have undergone a transformation much more wonderful. I find
that in my book its population is once modestly spoken of as two
millions, but now in twenty years it is twice as great, and the grandeur
as well as grandiosity of its forms is doubly apparent. The transitional
public that then moped about in mildly tinkling horse-cars is now hurried
back and forth in clanging trolleys, in honking and whirring motors; the
Elevated road which was the last word of speed is undermined by the
Subway, shooting its swift shuttles through the subterranean woof of the
city's haste. The new law was theoretically abstract statutes, insofar
as the Roman law is illustrative of their national specificity in respect
entaeussert was the same as they had been aware, but she was
almost positive by far in the hazy twilight of general fairness, or even
in the pure nothingness the so-called natural law became blurred,
but by certain authorities for certain specific cases according to
established standards and became a statutory formulation is not
only capable, but in the city edict much already participate had
become.

These statutes also corresponded to the material needs of the time, provided
it is for the process, property acquisition, contract completion by the
increased traffic demanded more convenient forms darbot. She was finally
already essentially the entire extent of the Roman Empire in general
has become subsidiary legislation by the varied local statutes
Rechtsverhaeltnisse for those who are not accomplished Verkehrsverhaeltnisse,
as well as for the Local Transport links between the same legal Sprengel
retained, while the Vermoegensverkehr between Reichsangehoerigen different
legal circles throughout on the model of the legal cases on this, not
applicable, City Edict in Italy as in the regulated provinces. The right
of a city edict had so much the same position at that time, in our
national development, the Roman law has taken: this is also, provided
that such opposites can unite, at once abstract and positive, it also
recommended itself by its, compared with the older statute law, sleek
shapes and traffic came alongside the local statutes as a general right
to relief. Only it was the Roman legal development before ours a
significant advantage that the legislation denationalisierte not, as
with us, and premature birth through art, but time and naturgemaess is
einfand. This state law was held before Caesar. When he designed the
plan to a new Code, it is not difficult to say what he intended.

Could this code only the right of Roman citizens and summarize
general Reich Code only to the extent that as a code-date of the
ruling nation of all sizes, even in the Empire had to general
Subsidiarrecht.

In criminal law, if any, the plan covers this miterstreckte, it
took only a revision and editing of Sullanischen orders.

In the civil law was for
a State whose nationality was actually the humanity, the necessary
and only possible formulation of that already from the legal
proceedings voluntarily hervorgewachsene City edict in legal
protection and precision.

The first step towards this was Cornel Law 687 (67) done by the judge at
the beginning of his duties, maxims tied up and instructed him not arbitrary
other right to speak - a provision which seems to be compared
Zwoelftafelgesetz should not and for the fixation of the newer city law
has become almost as important as that for the fixation of the older. But
even since the People's Cornel conclusion the Edict no longer stood among
the judges, but by law the judge under the edict, even if the new law
in court as the legal use of teaching the old city law had actually
squeezed, so there was still any city judges are free to at the commencement
of his duties, the unlimited and arbitrary edict to change, and
outweighed the Zwoelftafelrecht formally with its additives is still the
city's edict, so that in each case, the collision outdated statutes arbitrary
action by officials, therefore, strictly speaking, by violation of
the formal law, eliminated had to be.

The subsidiary application of the edict in the city of strangers court
in Rome and in the various Provinzialgerichtshoefen was not entirely in
the discretion of individual top officials asked.

Apparently, it was necessary, the old city law, provided it is not in the
newer transferred was definitely to eliminate the latter and the
arbitrary changes made by each city judges to set reasonable limits, for
example, the subsidiary application of that besides the local statutes
to regulate. This was Caesar's intention when he planned to a code
designed because it had to be.

The plan was not executed, and thus those annoying Uebergang state in the
Roman legal system perpetuates until after six hundred years, and
then only imperfectly, this necessary reform by one of Caesar's
successor, the Emperor Justinian, was completed.

Finally, in coins, Mass., and weight was the major adjustment of the Latin
and the Greek system in a long course. She was very old in the trade and
transport for essential provisions of the weight, and body length
and in the coinage little less than the introduction of Silberpraegung.

However, these equations are not older, as in the Hellenistic world, even
the most diverse and metric coinage existed, it was necessary and
was without a doubt in Caesar's plan, the new unified kingdom, as far
as it does not already have happened earlier, Roman Mint, Roman and Roman
Mass weight now everywhere in the type, that the official transport
alone then calculated, and the nichtroemischen systems due to local
coverage is limited, sometimes to the Roman in a once and for all
regulated ratio were ^ 34th Evidence, however, lets Caesars activity
only to two of the most important of those areas in which money and
the calendar system. ---------------------------- --------------------
34 ^ Recently come to light weights pompeianische suggest that, in
the beginning of the imperial era of the Roman pound the Attic mine
(presumably in the ratio of 3: 4) as the second kingdom had weight
application (Heymer 16, 1880, p. 311). -----------------------------
------------------- The Roman monetary system was based on the two
apart and in a fixed relationship to each other outstanding precious
metals, of which the gold by weight ^ 35, after the silver the
character and was made, but really a result of the extensive overseas
transport the gold far outweighed the silver.

If not already earlier in the whole extent of the kingdom of the adoption
of the Roman silver money was required, it is uncertain in any case, the
body of the kingdom of money in the whole Roman territory the bullion
much more so than the Romans in all provinces and client states Goldpraegung
were prohibited, and had the penny, except in Italy Cisalpinischen
also in Gaul, in Sicily, Spain and much else, especially in the West,
legally or de facto become common.

With Caesar but Reichsmuenze starts. Alexander Ebenwie he also described
the establishment of the new, the civilized world wide monarchy by the
fact that the only weltenvermittelnde metal of the coins in the
first place was awarded. How great extent once the new Caesars
Goldstueck (to 7 thalers, 18 pennies in the current metal value)
was influenced, the fact that in a single, seven years after Caesar's
death buried treasure is 80000 pieces together of this place.

Admittedly fans here also the influence of financial speculation had
his 36th ^ As for the silver money is concerned, it was by Caesar who was
the sole dominion of the Roman Denarius throughout the West, on the basis
of earlier had been, finally found it the only Western mints in
the Silbercourant still competed with the Roman, the massaliotische,
definitely closed.

The minting of silver or copper Scheidemuenze remained a number of
Western churches, such as Dreivierteldenare by some Latin communities
of southern Gaul, half denarii from several northern Gallic Gauen,
copper Kleinmuenzen often even after Caesar by municipalities of
the West have been beaten, even this alone Scheidemuenze was
consistently on foot Roman influenced their acceptance Moreover and
probably only in the local transport is mandatory.

At a uniform regulation of coinage in the east, where large masses
of coarse, largely yielded too easily vernutzten silver or money, sometimes
even, as in Egypt, one our paper money related Kupfermuenze umlief,
including the Syrian Handelsstaedte the lack of its previous, the
Mesopotamian equivalent Courant Landesmuenze very hard felt would have
so little Caesar seems to have thought as the former government. Here we
find the body later that the penny everywhere statutory rate, and only
after he officially expected to be ^ 37, but Lokalmuenzen Limited within
their districts, including legal course, but after a bad price for it
against the penny have ^ 38, same is probably not all at once, and
probably to some extent already been introduced by Caesar, in any case,
the essential complement to the Caesars Reichsmuenzordnung whose new
Goldstueck approximately equal in the grave of Alexander's direct model
and found very high on the circulation in the Orient calculated was.
------------------------------------------------ ------ ^ 35 The Goldstuecke
which Sulla and Pompey, both in small numbers, could beat, not
highlight this sentence to: because they were probably only made
after the weight similar to the golden peer Philip, also to Caesar's
time in circulation have been.

Strange they are, however, inasmuch as the kingdom of Caesar's gold
initiate similar Sullas reign as the new monarchy. ^ 36 It seems namely
that in ancient times on the silver-denominated claims of
Staatsglaeubiger not resist their will into gold, according to the
legal course to the same silver, was able to pay, but there is no
doubt suffers from the fact that since the Caesar Goldstueck
inevitably for 100 Silbersesterzen be had.

It was ebendamals the more important as a result of Caesar put into
circulation large quantities of gold the same for a time in the
trading price 25 percent below the rate was legal. ^ 37 There is
no inscription of the imperial period, the sums of money other than
in Roman coins angaebe. ^ 38 Thus, the Attic drachma, although
noticeably heavier than the penny, but this immediately, and the
Antioch Tetradrachmon, an average of 15 grams of silver heavy, equal
to 3 Roman denarii, which only weigh about 12 grams, so the small
Asian Cistophorus silver value after about 3, after the legal Tariff
2 denarii; the Rhodian silver half drachma value after _, according
to the legal rate 5 / 8 denarii, and so on. ------------------------
------------------------------ relative was the kind of calendar
reform.

The Republican calendar, unbelievably still the old one, from the
vormetonischen Oktaeteris disfigured Dezemviralkalender was by combining
the most wretched and miserable math ester administration reach that
point, a full 67 days ahead of real time and, for example, the Blossom
Festival held on 28 April 11 July to celebrate. Caesar finally solved
this maladministration and led with the help of the Greek mathematician
Sosigenes after the Egyptian calendar Eudoxischen ordered Italic
Bauer year and a reasonable system involvement in the religious and
official use, by both the old calendar New Year of 1 Maerz abolished,
but the first for the official change of the highest magistrate
found, and consequently a long life in the civil overwhelming
deadline of 1 January, as the epoch for the calendar year was
adopted.

Both changes occurred on 1 709 of the city in January, 45 BC, to life and
with them the use of the named author from his Julian calendar, long after
the downfall of the monarchy of Caesar in the educated world still prevail
on the merits, and it still is. For an explanation was detailed in an
edict one Egyptian sky observations taken and, admittedly not sent to
Italy over delegated calendar Stern added that the creation and destruction
of well-known stars, after certain days ^ 39th Also in this area so put
the Roman and Greek world into the same.
---------------------------------- ------------------------ ^ 39 The
identity of this maybe edited by Marcus Flavius Edict (Macr. Sat. I, 14,
2) and the alleged correspondence Caesar of the stars of the show joke
Cicero (Plut. CAES. 59), that now is the lyre under Regulation work.
the way you knew before Caesar, that the solar year of 365 days, six
hours, the Egyptian calendar was based and his presented based calendar,
a little too long was used. The most accurate calculation of the tropical
year, which the old world knew that the Hipparchos, sat on the
same 365 days 5 hours 52 '12 ", the true length is 365 days 5 hours
48' 48". -------- --------------------------------------------------
These were the basics of Mediterranean Caesars Monarchie.

For the second time in Rome was the social question to a crisis arrives,
where the opposites, as they were drawn up, inextricably, as they were
pronounced, not only seemed irreconcilable, but were.

At that time Rome had been saved by the fact that Italy in Rome and Rome
in Italy and opened up in the new enlarged and transformed those ancient
homeland contrasts were not compensated, but disappear. Recovery was
now rescued by Rome, that the landscapes of the Mediterranean it was up
or were prepared to rise, and the war of the Italian rich and poor,
in the old Italy with only the destruction of the nation was able
to termination, in which Italy had three parts of the world no
battlefield and no longer make sense.

The Latin colonies closed the gap in the fifth century the Roman
community threatened to engulf, the deeper rift in the seventh
century reply to Gaius Gracchus and Caesar transalpinische and
overseas colonization.

For the only Rome has the history not only done wonders, but also its
miracle repeated twice and the state itself incurable internal crisis is
healed, the state that it rejuvenated. However, is much younger in this
decay, as the unification of Italy on the ruins of the Etruscan nation
samnitischen and is completed, it was built in the Mediterranean
Sea monarchy on the ruins of countless once livelier and more
efficient states and tribes, but there is a decay of fresh and to
some still green seeds sterilized.

What was the basis for the new building's sake, were only the length
of the already leveling the downfall of civilization designated
secondary nationalities. Caesar, where he destructive occurs only
precipitated the acquittal of the historical development completed,
the germs of culture protected but where and how he felt in his own
country as well as for the severed nation of the Hellenes. He has rescued
the Roman and renewed, but also the Greek, he has not only preserved,
but with the same safe genius, which he performed the foundation of Rome,
including the regeneration of the Hellenes, and subjected to the
interrupted work of the great Alexander resumed, whose image one
may well believe it, never mind most of Caesars.

He has these two major tasks, not just coexist, but solved by the other.
The two major entities of humanity, education and personal development,
or state and culture, once united in germs in those old, far from the
coasts and islands of the Mediterranean into urvaeterlicher simplicity
Graecoitalikern grazing their flocks, had divorced, the same as that
secretes in Italic and Hellenes, and had since been divorced by
millennia.

Now created the grandson of the troischen Fuersten and the Latin King's
daughter from a state without its own culture and a cosmopolitan
civilization, a new whole, which at the summit of human existence,
in the rich fullness of glueckseligen age state and culture are
joined again and such a Contents reasonable radius worthy fulfilled.

The lines are out the Caesar for this work has drawn, after which he worked
and which the later banned many centuries in which this man laid down
tracks, where not compatible with the spirit and energy but in the whole
in accordance with the intentions of the great master tried to continue
working.

Little is completed, some even just created. Whether the plan is
complete, may decide who is such a man in the bet dare to think,
we noted no significant gaps in what is present, each individual
module enough to immortalize a man to do, and yet again all together
harmonious whole.

Five and a half year, not half as long as Alexander, Caesar intervened
as king of Rome, between seven major campaigns, which he no longer
together as fuenfzehn months ^ 40 in the capital of his kingdom allowed
to linger, he ordered the fortunes of the world for the present and the
future, by identifying the boundary between civilization and barbarism
on down to the elimination of Regenpfuetzen on the streets of the capital,
and kept still enough time and serenity to the theater Preisstuecken
carefully and follow the winner the wreath with improvised verses
before it.

The speed and certainty of execution of the plan demonstrates that he
thought long and in all parts of the individual was found alone and it
remains no less wonderful than the plan itself were broad, and thus the
new state for all future determines ; could complete the construction
of only the limitless future.

Insofar Caesar could be said that his goal was, and probably liked the words
mean that you sometimes heard from his lips that he had lived
enough.

But precisely because of the construction of an infinite was added
to the master, as long as he lived, restless stone by stone, with always
the same always the same suppleness and elasticity acting in his
or her work without ever ueberstuerzen or move, just as there is
for him only Today, not tomorrow.

So he worked and never been a mortal as before and after him, and
acting as a fender and sheep he was still alive after millennia in
the memory of nations, the first and still the only Imperator Caesar.
---------- --------------------------------------------- ^ 40 Caesar
stayed in Rome in April and December, 705 (49), both times to a few
days, from September to December 707 (47), about four months of
autumn fuenfzehnmonatlichen year 708 (46) and in October 709 (45)
until March 710 (44). --------------------------------------------------
----- 12th Chapter religion, education, literature and art in the
religio-philosophical development occurs in this period no new
moment appears.

The Hellenic-Roman state religion and the state inextricably linked
Stoic philosophy was for each government, oligarchy, monarchy or
democracy, not merely a convenient tool, but so absolutely essential,
because it was equally impossible to state without any religious
elements to construct than any new to replace the old state religion
appropriate records.

So went in because of the revolutionary broom occasionally very rough in
the cobwebs of wisdom auguralen bird inside, but the rotten, in all
joints crack machine nonetheless survived the earthquake that devoured
the Republic itself, and saved their pride and their mindless undiminished
over into the new monarchy.

It is understood that she grew to disgrace all those who have a free
decision is preserved. Although the state religion did the public
opinion is much more indifferent, and everybody was as a political institution
Konvenienz recognized and there is no one particularly troubled by it,
with the exception of political and antiquarian scholars. But against
their philosophical sister developed in the unbiased audience that
hostility, and the empty but also to the perfidious Phrasenheuchelei
length never misses to awaken.

That the Stoa itself from its own nullity an idea began to pay off,
demonstrates her attempt in the way of syncretism back some
artificial spirit einzufloessen: Antiochos of Askalon (bloom 675
79), with the stoic system platonic-Aristotelian to an organic
zusammengeklittert unit claimed to have brought it in fact is that
his failed doctrine created the fashion philosophy of the conservatives
of his time and make the writers and dilettantes of Rome was a
conscientious student.

Who in any of mental freshness is suggested, opposed to the Stoa,
or ignored them.

It was mainly the reluctance of the Roman grossmauligen Pharisees and
boring, besides, also the increasing tendency to withdraw from the
practical life into tired or apathy void irony to flee the During this
period the system Epicure its spread in other districts and the
philosophy of their dogs Diogenische naturalization in Rome owed.

How dull and gedankenarm also liked that its a philosophy that does not
change in the traditional designations of the way to freedom sought, but
with the existing well and did that just the sensory perception
to be true are left, it was still better than the terminological
clatter, and the hollow words of stoic wisdom, philosophy and the
dogs was even then by all philosophical systems so far by far the
most excellent, as their systems were limited to no system, but all
systems and classifications for all the scorn.

In both areas was against the Stoa with zeal and lucky war, for serious
men preached epicureans Lucretius with the full focus of heartfelt
conviction and of the holy zeal against the stoic Gods and
Vorsehungsglauben and the Stoic doctrine of the immortality of the
soul; for lachbereite the big audience hit the Kyniker Varro volatile
with the arrows of his widely read satires even sharper aim.

So when the stalwart men of the older generation of the Stoa befehdeten,
then stood on the other hand, the younger, like Catullus, to her in no
more internal relationship and criticized when they are still far from
complete schaerfe Ignore. However, if a non-believing faith in political
Konvenienz was maintained, so they brought plenty of it elsewhere
again.

Unbelief and superstition, various colors refractions of that historical
phenomenon, were also in the Roman world, then hand in hand and there is
no shortage of individuals, both in what they are united with the
gods Epikuros denied but before any chapel prayed and sacrificed.
"Basil! You don't mean it! Why, take it! Take it instantly! Oh, what a
thing to happen! Oh, what luck! But you deserve it, if you first
suggested it. What an escape, what a triumph over all those hateful
insurance people! Oh, Basil, I'm afraid he'll change his mind! You ought
to have accepted on the spot. You might have known I would approve, and
you could so easily have taken it back if I didn't. Telegraph him now!
Run right out with the despatch--Or we can send Tom!"

In these imperatives of Mrs. March's there was always much of the
conditional. She meant that he should do what she said, if it were
entirely right; and she never meant to be considered as having urged him.

"And suppose his enterprise went wrong?" her husband suggested.

"It won't go wrong. Hasn't he made a success of his syndicate?"

"He says so--yes."

"Very well, then, it stands to reason that he'll succeed in this, too. He
wouldn't undertake it if he didn't know it would succeed; he must have
capital."

"It will take a great deal to get such a thing going; and even if he's
got an Angel behind him--"

She caught at the word--"An Angel?"

"It's what the theatrical people call a financial backer. He dropped a
hint of something of that kind."

"Of course, he's got an Angel," said his wife, promptly adopting the
word. "And even if he hadn't, still, Basil, I should be willing to have
you risk it. The risk isn't so great, is it? We shouldn't be ruined if it
failed altogether. With our stocks we have two thousand a year, anyway,
and we could pinch through on that till you got into some other business
afterward, especially if we'd saved something out of your salary while it
lasted. Basil, I want you to try it! I know it will give you a new lease
of life to have a congenial occupation." March laughed, but his wife
persisted. "I'm all for your trying it, Basil; indeed I am. If it's an
experiment, you can give it up."

"It can give me up, too."

"Oh, nonsense! I guess there's not much fear of that. Now, I want you to
telegraph Mr. Fulkerson, so that he'll find the despatch waiting for him
when he gets to New York. I'll take the whole responsibility, Basil, and
I'll risk all the consequences."


III.

March's face had sobered more and more as she followed one hopeful burst
with another, and now it expressed a positive pain. But he forced a smile
and said: "There's a little condition attached. Where did you suppose it
was to be published?"

"Why, in Boston, of course. Where else should it be published?"

She looked at him for the intention of his question so searchingly that
he quite gave up the attempt to be gay about it. "No," he said, gravely,
"it's to be published in New York."

She fell back in her chair. "In New York?" She leaned forward over the
table toward him, as if to make sure that she heard aright, and said,
with all the keen reproach that he could have expected: "In New York,
Basil! Oh, how could you have let me go on?"

He had a sufficiently rueful face in owning: "I oughtn't to have done it,
but I got started wrong. I couldn't help putting the best foot, forward
at first--or as long as the whole thing was in the air. I didn't know
that you would take so much to the general enterprise, or else I should
have mentioned the New York condition at once; but, of course, that puts
an end to it."

"Oh, of course," she assented, sadly. "We COULDN'T go to New York."

"No, I know that," he said; and with this a perverse desire to tempt her
to the impossibility awoke in him, though he was really quite cold about
the affair himself now. "Fulkerson thought we could get a nice flat in
New York for about what the interest and taxes came to here, and
provisions are cheaper. But I should rather not experiment at my time of
life. If I could have been caught younger, I might have been inured to
New York, but I don't believe I could stand it now."

"How I hate to have you talk that way, Basil! You are young enough to try
anything--anywhere; but you know I don't like New York. I don't approve
of it. It's so big, and so hideous! Of course I shouldn't mind that; but
I've always lived in Boston, and the children were born and have all
their friendships and associations here." She added, with the
helplessness that discredited her good sense and did her injustice, "I
have just got them both into the Friday afternoon class at Papanti's, and
you know how difficult that is."

March could not fail to take advantage of an occasion like this. "Well,
that alone ought to settle it. Under the circumstances, it would be
flying in the face of Providence to leave Boston. The mere fact of a
brilliant opening like that offered me on 'The Microbe,' and the halcyon
future which Fulkerson promises if we'll come to New York, is as dust in
the balance against the advantages of the Friday afternoon class."

"Basil," she appealed, solemnly, "have I ever interfered with your
career?"

"I never had any for you to interfere with, my dear."

"Basil! Haven't I always had faith in you? And don't you suppose that if
I thought it would really be for your advancement I would go to New York
or anywhere with you?"

"No, my dear, I don't," he teased. "If it would be for my salvation, yes,
perhaps; but not short of that; and I should have to prove by a cloud of
witnesses that it would. I don't blame you. I wasn't born in Boston, but
I understand how you feel. And really, my dear," he added, without irony,
"I never seriously thought of asking you to go to New York. I was dazzled
by Fulkerson's offer, I'll own that; but his choice of me as editor
sapped my confidence in him."

"I don't like to hear you say that, Basil," she entreated.

"Well, of course there were mitigating circumstances. I could see that
Fulkerson meant to keep the whip-hand himself, and that was reassuring.
And, besides, if the Reciprocity Life should happen not to want my
services any longer, it wouldn't be quite like giving up a certainty;
though, as a matter of business, I let Fulkerson get that impression; I
felt rather sneaking to do it. But if the worst comes to the worst, I can
look about for something to do in Boston; and, anyhow, people don't
starve on two thousand a year, though it's convenient to have five. The
fact is, I'm too old to change so radically. If you don't like my saying
that, then you are, Isabel, and so are the children. I've no right to
take them from the home we've made, and to change the whole course of
their lives, unless I can assure them of something, and I can't assure
them of anything. Boston is big enough for us, and it's certainly
prettier than New York. I always feel a little proud of hailing from
Boston; my pleasure in the place mounts the farther I get away from it.
But I do appreciate it, my dear; I've no more desire to leave it than you
have. You may be sure that if you don't want to take the children out of
the Friday afternoon class, I don't want to leave my library here, and
all the ways I've got set in. To smooth the Roman diplomacy against
Phraates had, as yet the Pontic and Armenian nationals stood upright, it
was both willing Lucullus as Pompey him the possession of lands beyond
the Euphrates were allowed, so gruff is now the new neighbor next to the
Arsakiden and if the royal art, forgetting his own mistakes, he
allowed, might Phraates probably now the words of warning Mithradats
remember that the Parthians by the alliance with the occidental
related to the origin of these first and then the ruin themselves
ready .

Romans and Parthians in Armenia based Bunde had addressed, as
it was removed, reversed Rome, his faithful old policy, the roles
and beneficiary to the humiliated enemy at the expense of allzumaechtigen
allies.

Even the striking preference belongs here, the father of his son
Tigran, the allies of the husband and daughter Partherkoenigs against
Pompey took over when it was a direct insult, as soon afterwards
on Pompey command of the younger Tigran with his family to the
prison, and even then was not released when Phraates in the friendly
commander for his daughter and his son related.

But Pompey did not stand.

The landscape Korduene to which both Phraates than Tigran claims, was on
Pompey command of Roman troops for the latter occupied and owned the
Parthians on the boundary beaten, so far as Arbela in Adiabene
prosecuted without the government of Ktesiphon only previously
been heard of (689 65).

But by far the most worrying was that the Romans seemed no way
inclined to traktatenmaessig identified Euphratgrenze respect.

Several Roman marched from Armenia to Syria certain departments across
Mesopotamia, the Arabian Emir Abgaros of Osrhoene was conspicuously under
favorable conditions in the Roman clientele included; yes Oruros in the
upper Mesopotamia, between Nisibis and around the Tigris 50 German
miles east of the kommagenischen Euphratuebergang is located, became
known as the eastern border of the Roman dominion, probably indirect,
inasmuch as the larger and more fertile northern half of Mesopotamia
to the Romans as well as the Armenian Korduene empires had been
increased.

The boundary between Romans and Parthians was so instead of the
Euphrates, the great Syrian-Mesopotamian desert, and even that seemed
only temporarily.

The parthischen envoys who came to the observance, however, it
seems, only oral agreements with respect to penetrate the Euphratgrenze,
gave Pompey the ambiguous answer that Rome's territory extends as
far as his right.

A commentary on this speech, seemed the obvious connections between the
Roman Oberfeld parthischen Lord and the satraps of the media landscape
and even the distant province Elymais (between Susiana, Media and Persia
in modern Luristan) ^ 5. The governor of the latter, mountainous, remote
and warlike country had always been anxious to have a great king of the
independent position to win, so offensive and threatening it was for
the government parthische when Pompey from this homage Dynastes
the Samaritans accepted. Not less, it was significant that the title of
"King of Kings", the Partherkoenig until then by the Romans in the official
transport company which was granted, now at once from them with the
simple title Koenig was swapped. It was more a threat than a breach of
etiquette.

Since the inheritance of the Rome Seleucid done, it seemed almost as you
remember lying there in the moment on those ancient times, fall back, as
throughout Iran and Turan by Antiocheia and dominated from there but
no Parthisches kingdom existed, but only a parthische Satrapi. The Ktesiphon
court would have had reason enough to Rome to begin the war, it seemed
like the introduction to that in the year 690 (64) because of the
boundary question him to Armenia declared. But Phraates had not the
courage, even now, when the dreaded captain with his strong army on the
borders of the empire Parthischen stood with the Romans to break
open. As Pompey Kommissarien sent to the part of the dispute between Armenia
and reach an amicable settlement, said the forced Phraates Roman
mediation and let it fall, that their arbitration Korduene the Armenians
and the Northern Mesopotamia infringement. Soon afterwards his daughter
was decorated with her son and her husband the triumph of the Roman
commander. The Parthians trembled before the Roman power, and if they
do not like the Pontiker Armenians and the Roman arms were erlegen seemed
the only reason to be that they had not dared to struggle to exist. ---
-------------------------------------------------- ^ 5 This view is based
on the story Plutarch (Pomp. 36), which by Strabo (16, 744) depiction of
the position of the satraps of Elymais supported.

A decoration of which is that in the directories of Pompey defeated kings
and media landscapes and its Dareios listed Koenig (Diod. fr. Vat. p.
140; App. Mithr. 117), and it is further herausgesponnen Pompey 'war with
the Medes (Vell. 2, 40, App. Mithr. 106, 114) and now even the
same train after Ekbatana (Oros. hist 6, 5). A confusion with the same
fabulous city on the Caramel has hardly taken place it is simply unfortunate
that, as it seems from Pompey 'great and intentionally ambiguous bulletins
are inferred exaggeration arising from its crackdown against the Gaetuler
a train to the African West Coast (Plut. pomp. 38), from his unsuccessful
expedition against the Nabataeans a conquest of the city of Petra,
from his arbitration award regarding the borders of Armenia and a
determination limit of the Roman Empire beyond Nisibis made.
-------------------------- ----------------------------- Still it was
the commander whether the ratio of the newfound inner landscapes to
regulate and the traces of a dreizehnjaehrigen, devastating war, as far
as possible be repaid. The Asia Minor by Lucullus and his accompanying
Commission of Metellus in Crete began Organization company received
the final conclusion by Pompey. The former province of Asia, the Myší,
Lydia, Caria and Phrygia included, grew from a frontier province of
appropriations, the newly established province Bithynien and Pontus, which
was formed from the whole of the former empires Nikomedes and the western
half of the former State Pontic up to and over the Halys the province
Cilicia, although they were already older, but until now their names are
expanded and grew, and also organized and Pamphylia Isaurien miteinschloss
the province Syria and the province of Crete. Admittedly missing
much, that those countries as a Roman mass Territorialbesitz in the
modern sense of the word would have to be able. Form and order of the
regiment remained essentially as they were, and only came to the place
of the previous monarch, the Roman community. As before, there were those
the Asian landscapes from a mix of Domanialbesitzungen, actually or
legally autonomous urban areas, princely and priestly rulers and kingdoms,
all for the internal administration, more or less left to themselves were,
by the way, but in milder soon, soon in stricter forms by the Roman
government and its proconsuls depended in a similar way as earlier by
the great king and his satraps. At least according to the range adopted
by the dependent Dynastes the first place of the king of Cappadocia,
whose territory has Lucullus by collateral with the landscape Melitene
(around Malatia) to extend to the Euphrates and the Pompey had still partly
on the western border of Cilicia some torn districts of Kastabala to Derbe
at Iconium, partly on the eastern border of the left Euphratufer
Melitene gegenueber located, initially the Armenian prince Tigran
intended landscape Soph awarded, thus making the very most important
Euphratpassage in the violence that came Fuersten. The small landscape
genes comma between Syria and Cappadocia, with its capital
Samosata (Samsat) remained as the dependent kingdom of the already
mentioned Seleucid Antiochus ^ 6: the same were also important, the
southern Uebergang on the. Euphrates Seleukeia dominant fortress (at
Biradjik) and the next lines on the left bank of the Euphrates and
assigned thereby ensuring that the two Hauptuebergaenge over the
Euphrates with a corresponding area on the eastern shore in the
hands of two of Rome remained totally dependent Dynastes.

In addition to the kings of Cappadocia and comma genes and real power to
help them with far superior reigned in Asia Minor, the new king
Deiotarus.

One of the Vierfuersten to Pessinus resident of the tribal Celts
Tolistoboger of Lucullus and Pompey and the other with small Roman
clients to posses Heerfolge had Deiotarus in these campaigns, in contrast
to all the flaccid Orientals, its reliability and its energy so brilliantly
proved that the Roman military gala them to his heritage and his possessions
in the rich landscape between Amisos and Halysmuendung he nor the former
eastern half of the Pontic kingdom with Seestaedten Pharnakia and Pontic
Trapezus and Armenia to kolchischen and large Armenian border as
a small kingdom Armenia awarded.

Soon afterwards he increased his already respectable area or through the
landscape of the Celtic Trokmer whose Vierfuersten he ousted.

So was the low Lehnsmann one of the most powerful Dynastes Asia Minor,
the hat of an important part of the border could be entrusted. Vassals
were of minor importance to the other numerous gala Vierfuersten them,
one of whom, the Trokmerfuerst Bogodiatarus, because of his wars in
Mithradatischen best efficiency of Pompey with the former Pontic frontier
town Mithradation was presented, the Prince of Paphlagonien,
Attalos, the sex of the old ruling house Pylaemeniden the back;
Aristarchos and other small men in kolchischen area; Tarkondimotos
in the eastern Cilicia in Bergtaelern of Amanos bade; Ptolemaeos
Mennaeos' son, continued in Chalkis on Libanos to prevail, the
Nabataeerkoenig Aretas as lord of Damaskos; finally Arab Emir in
the countryside on both sides of the Euphrates, Abgaros in Osrhoene
by the Romans to him as the nominee against the Parthians items to
use to all ways in their interest to draw endeavored Sampsikeramos
in Hemesa, Alchaudonios of Rhambaeer and another in Bostra Emir.

This was also the spiritual masters in the East, often equal to
the secular Dynastes over the country and its people need, and at whose
home in this fanaticism grounded authority to shake or even the temples
of their treasures to deprive the Romans klueglich are included: the High
priest of the goddess mother in Pessinus the two high priests of the
goddess Ma in the kappadokischen Komana (Saros at the top) and in the
same city Pontic (Guemenek in Tokat), which both men in their landscapes
only to the king in power after all and were still in a much later time
extended jurisdiction with its own property and to six thousand temples
owned slaves - with the Pontic Hochpriesteramt was Archelaos, son
of the same name by Mithradates to the Roman commander, possessed,
mortgaged by Pompey - and the high priest of Zeus in the Venas
kappadokischen Office Morimene whose annual income is 23,300 crowns
(15 talent) came, the "Erzpriester and Lord" of that area in Rough
Cilicia, where Teukros, of Aias son, Zeus had founded a temple,
which his descendants by virtue of executive succession, and the
"Erzpriester and Lord of the people "of the Jews, the Pompey, after
the walls of the capital and the royal treasure in the fortress and
down the country had under serious warning, to keep peace and not
further conquests to be assumed, the executive of his nation back.

In addition to these secular and spiritual potentates were the
municipalities.

Some were the same for large associations zusammengeordnet, which
is a relatively self-pleased, as well including, for example,
participation in the economic desert pirates always absent from the
Confederation of the twenty-third Lycian cities, while many
communities are isolated, even if the self-government securitises
had received, in fact by the Roman governors were quite dependent.

The Roemer unrecognized, it is unsurprising that the task of representing
and Hellenism in the East Alexander brands shield and expand,
especially the raising of the urban system has become mandatory for
them was because when cities throughout the Traeger of civilization
are as summarized above all the antagonism of the occidental and
oriental in its full Schaerf joined in the opposition of the oriental,
despotic military-life of the hierarchy and Hellenic-Italian
industrial and commercial driving urban community.

Lucullus and Pompey, as little else on it also the leveling of the
states in the east side, and sosehr the latter in detail the
arrangements made by his predecessor to master and was inclined to
change, but fully met, together with the principle in the urban
sector in Asia Minor and Syria bach forces to promote.

Kyzikos, which firmly against the first defensive ferocity of the
last war that had broken, by Lucullus received considerable extension
of its territory.

The Pontic Herakleia how vigorously it had resisted the Romans, was still
his territory and his return ports, and Cottas barbaric rage against
the unfortunate city told the Senate the sharpest rebuke. Lucullus had
been deeply and sincerely lamented the fate that his luck had failed,
and Sinope Amisos from the devastation of the Pontic and their own soldiers
to rescue, at least he did what he could to restore them, expanded
their areas considerably, populated anew some of them with the old
residents, based on his invitation in droves in the beloved homeland
returned, some with new tenants Hellenic descent and provided for
the reconstruction of the destroyed buildings.

In the same sense and to an even larger scale did Pompey. Even after
overcoming the pirates, he had the prisoners, whose numbers increased
about 20,000, instead of following the example of his predecessor
to crucify, located partly in the towns of desertified levels
Cilicia, as in Mallos , Adana, Epiphaneia, especially in Soloi,
which has the name of the Pompeiusstadt (Pompeiopolis) led, partly
in Dyme in Achaia, and even in Taranto.

The Piratenkolonisierung found multiple rebuke ^ 7, because it
somehow to the crime to put a reward seemed, in fact, it was probably
politically and morally justified, because as things stood at that
time, piracy was something other than robbery, and the prisoner
cheap, under martial law to be treated.

Above all things, but let Pompey is matter, in the new Roman
provinces, the urban sector emporzubringen.

Staedtearm How was the Pontic kingdom, was already noticed, most districts
of Cappadocia was still a century later, no cities, but only a mountain
fortress as a refuge for the farming population in wartime: throughout
eastern Asia Minor, it is, apart from the sown sparingly Greek
colonies on the coasts, at this time not otherwise have been.

The number of Pompey in these landscapes will be newly established towns,
including the Cilician settlements on nine specified, several of
which have high flowers.

The most famous of these towns in the former Pontic Nikopolis are
rich, the "victory city", founded in the places where Mithradates
the last defeat suffered drastic - the most beautiful monument of
the victory trophaeenreichen commander; Megalopolis, after Pompeius'
name called, on the border of Cappadocia and Little Armenia, which
later Sebasteia (now Siwas); Ziela, where the Romans came the
unfortunate battle, a temple to the dasigen the Anaitis created and
so far the high priest of his own village, Pompey the urban form
and urban right there; Diopolis, Kabeira earlier, later Neo-Caesarea
(Niksar), also one of the Walstaetten the last war; Magnopolis or
Pompeiopolis, the restored Eupatoria at the confluence of the Lykos
and Iris, originally built by Mithradates, but because of the waste
of the city to the Romans again destroyed him, Neapolis, otherwise
Phazemon between Amaseia and Halys.

Most of these were not Stadtgruendungen by colonists from the distance
effect, but by resignation of the village and contraction of its nursing
homes the new wall, and only settled in Pompey Nikopolis the disabled and
elderly of his army, which is preferred rather than later in Italy,
here now a home is to start. But in other places were on the power Habers
Wink of the new focal point of the Hellenistic civilization. In a third
Paphlagonien designated Pompeiupolis the site where Mithradates'
army in 666 (88) the great victory over the Bithyner erfocht.

In Cappadocia, perhaps more than any other province suffered by the
war had been the residence Mazaka (later Caesarea, now Kayseri) and
seven other towns of Pompey restored and urban set up.

In Cilicia and Koilesyrien one counted twenty of Pompey based cities.

In the of the Jews evacuated districts rose Gadara in the Decapolis
to Pompey 'command from its ashes and became the city Seleukis
founded.

By far the largest part of the Asian continent available Domaniallandes
need of Pompey for his new settlements have been used, while
in Crete, the Pompey little or no cares of the Roman Domanialbesitz
remained fairly extended appears to be. -- --------------------------------------------------
^ 6 The war, which this Antiochos with Pompey should have run (App.
Mithr. 106, 117), agrees with very little to the contract, the same
degree with Lucullus (Dio 36, 4) and his stay in the peaceful reign,
probably He is also just herausgesponnen fact that Antiochos by commas
genes among the kings of Pompey subject figured. ^ 7 This was probably
aimed reproach Cicero (off. 3, 12, 49): piratas immune Habemus,
socios vectigales as such, those pirates probably colonies of Pompey
simultaneously with the immunity were presented, while known to the
Rome-based provincial municipalities on average were taxed.
-------------------------------- ------------------- Not less how
to set up new towns Pompey was anxious to ensure that existing
communities to organize and raise.

The indented abuses and usurpation fortunes have been turned off,
execution as well as the various provinces with municipal ordinances
designed carefully regulated in detail the Munizipalwesen.

A considerable number of cities was presented with new privileges. The
autonomy given Antiocheia the Orontes, the biggest city of Roman
Asia and little zurueckstehend behind the Egyptian Alexandreia and
behind the Baghdad of antiquity, the city Seleukeia in Parthischen
rich, also the neighboring town of Antiocheia the Persian Seleukeia,
making it for his courageous Tigran resistance against the wage
received, Gaza and all of the Jewish domination liberated cities
in Asia Minor Mytilene; Phanagoria on the Black Sea.

This was the construction of the Asian Roemer finished state, with its
Lehnkoenigen and vassals, the gefuersteten priests and the whole
series - Semi and lively cities reminiscent of the Holy Roman Empire of
the German nation.
He explained how the enterprise
differed from others, and how he needed for its direction a man who
combined general business experience and business ideas with a love for
the thing and a natural aptness for it. He did not want a young man, and
yet he wanted youth--its freshness, its zest--such as March would feel in
a thing he could put his whole heart into. He would not run in ruts, like
an old fellow who had got hackneyed; he would not have any hobbies; he
would not have any friends or any enemies. Besides, he would have to meet
people, and March was a man that people took to; she knew that herself;
he had a kind of charm. The editorial management was going to be kept in
the background, as far as the public was concerned; the public was to
suppose that the thing ran itself. Fulkerson did not care for a great
literary reputation in his editor--he implied that March had a very
pretty little one. At the same time the relations between the
contributors and the management were to be much more, intimate than
usual. Fulkerson felt his personal disqualification for working the thing
socially, and he counted upon Mr. March for that; that was to say, he
counted upon Mrs. March.

She protested he must not count upon her; but it by no means disabled
Fulkerson's judgment in her view that March really seemed more than
anything else a fancy of his. He had been a fancy of hers; and the sort
of affectionate respect with which Fulkerson spoke of him laid forever
some doubt she had of the fineness of Fulkerson's manners and reconciled
her to the graphic slanginess of his speech.

The affair was now irretrievable, but she gave her approval to it as
superbly as if it were submitted in its inception. Only, Mr. Fulkerson
must not suppose she should ever like New York. She would not deceive him
on that point. She never should like it. She did not conceal, either,
that she did not like taking the children out of the Friday afternoon
class; and she did not believe that Tom would ever be reconciled to going
to Columbia. She took courage from Fulkerson's suggestion that it was
possible for Tom to come to Harvard even from New York; and she heaped
him with questions concerning the domiciliation of the family in that
city. He tried to know something about the matter, and he succeeded in
seeming interested in points necessarily indifferent to him.


VI.

In the uprooting and transplanting of their home that followed, Mrs.
March often trembled before distant problems and possible contingencies,
but she was never troubled by present difficulties. She kept up with
tireless energy; and in the moments of dejection and misgiving which
harassed her husband she remained dauntless, and put heart into him when
he had lost it altogether.

She arranged to leave the children in the house with the servants, while
she went on with March to look up a dwelling of some sort in New York. It
made him sick to think of it; and, when it came to the point, he would
rather have given up the whole enterprise. She had to nerve him to it, to
represent more than once that now they had no choice but to make this
experiment. Every detail of parting was anguish to him. He got
consolation out of the notion of letting the house furnished for the
winter; that implied their return to it, but it cost him pangs of the
keenest misery to advertise it; and, when a tenant was actually found, it
was all he could do to give him the lease. He tried his wife's love and
patience as a man must to whom the future is easy in the mass but
terrible as it translates itself piecemeal into the present. He
experienced remorse in the presence of inanimate things he was going to
leave as if they had sensibly reproached him, and an anticipative
homesickness that seemed to stop his heart. Again and again his wife had
to make him reflect that his depression was not prophetic. She convinced
him of what he already knew, and persuaded him against his knowledge that
he could be keeping an eye out for something to take hold of in Boston if
they could not stand New York. She ended by telling him that it was too
bad to make her comfort him in a trial that was really so much more a
trial to her. She had to support him in a last access of despair on their
way to the Albany depot the morning they started to New York; but when
the final details had been dealt with, the tickets bought, the trunks
checked, and the handbags hung up in their car, and the future had massed
itself again at a safe distance and was seven hours and two hundred miles
away, his spirits began to rise and hers to sink. He would have been
willing to celebrate the taste, the domestic refinement, of the ladies'
waiting-room in the depot, where they had spent a quarter of an hour
before the train started. He said he did not believe there was another
station in the world where mahogany rocking-chairs were provided; that
the dull-red warmth of the walls was as cozy as an evening lamp, and that
he always hoped to see a fire kindled on that vast hearth and under that
aesthetic mantel, but he supposed now he never should. He said it was all
very different from that tunnel, the old Albany depot, where they had
waited the morning they went to New York when they were starting on their
wedding journey.

"The morning, Basil!" cried his wife. "We went at night; and we were
going to take the boat, but it stormed so!" She gave him a glance of such
reproach that he could not answer anything, and now she asked him whether
he supposed their cook and second girl would be contented with one of
those dark holes where they put girls to sleep in New York flats, and
what she should do if Margaret, especially, left her. He ventured to
suggest that Margaret would probably like the city; but, if she left,
there were plenty of other girls to be had in New York. She replied that
there were none she could trust, and that she knew Margaret would not
stay. He asked her why she took her, then--why she did not give her up at
once; and she answered that it would be inhuman to give her up just in
the edge of the winter. She had promised to keep her; and Margaret was
pleased with the notion of going to New York, where she had a cousin.

Varro and insights about the main tasks such as the Chronicle
apparently lost that maximum, as did Titus Pomponius Atticus, the
officials and sex directories in tabular unpretentiousness put
together - a work by the way, through the synchronistic Greco-Roman
Jahrzaehlung in the way the conventional fixed later, the conclusion
has been run.

The City Chronicle factory but that was the work of course not,
but went on to the big, the length of time for boredom library written
their contributions so well in prose as in verse to be delivered without
the bookmakers, some already released, the any actual research to grieve
had said. What sets us apart from these writings is called - is not
receiving the same - just does not seem quite minor, but in large
part even of forgery unfair to have been penetrated. While the Chronicle
of Quintus Claudius Quadrigarius (around 676?

78) was in an old-fashioned, but good style and zeal in the presentation
of the fable time to at least a commendable shortly. But when Gaius
Licinius Macer (+ as a former praetor 688 66), the poet calvus father
and an avid Democrat, more than any other chronicler of deed research
and criticism was right, so are his "Cast Buecher" him and other
owners of the highest degrees of suspicious and will probably be a
very comprehensive and in part to the late Anna lists interpolation
transferred to chronicle the entire democratic tendentious purposes
on his back.

Valerius Antias finally surpassed in the large as in the childish Fabulierung
all of its predecessor.

The Zahlenluege was systematically parallel to the story carried out and
the prehistory of Rome from the plates into the plate once worked, as for
example, because the story, what kind of instruction according to Numa
the nymph Egeria, the gods Faunus and Picus of wines began and the
beautiful, from this same Numa with God Jupiter Entertainment practice all
admirers of the so-called legends history of Rome is not strongly
enough can be recommended, perhaps even to them, understood their nuclei
after, to believe. It would have been a miracle if the Greek short
story writer of this time such as they made for substances that could
have been missed. In fact, there is no shortage of Greek writers, the
Roman history novels processed: such a font, for example, among the already
living in Rome Greek writers mentioned polymath Alexandros five books'
on Rome ', a vile mixture of historical stale overnight delivery and
trivial, mainly erotic invention. He probably has the outset as to the
half-millennium, which is enough to Troia downfall of Rome and by the
emergence in the mutual fables chronological context required to
bring one of those filled with loose did Koenig lists as the Egyptian
and Greek chronicler sadly familiar because apparently it is, the kings
and Tiberinus Aventinus and the Albanian Silviergeschlecht in the
world has set, which are then detailed with names of several
government and also a vivid portrait of the device is not subsequently
failed. To penetrate various sides of the historical novel of the Greeks
in the Roman Historiography On; and it is more than probable that
from what is now known tradition of the Roman Prehistory to mention
the usual is not the smallest part from sources comes from the
Digest of the 'Amadis of Gaul 'and Fouqueschen knight novels - an
edifying look at least for those who have sense of humor of the
story and the comedy is still in some circles of the nineteenth
century for King Numa cherished reverent tribute understand.

New in the Roman literature of this period occurs in addition to the
country-the universal, or real words, the combined Hellenic-Roman
history. Cornelius Nepos from Ticinum (ca. 650 - ca 725 100-30) first
provides a general chronicle (published before 700 54) and according
to certain general categories orderly collection of political
biography or literary great Roman and Greek or even in the Roman
or Greek history the considerable men.

This work is close to the universal stories to the Greeks as they
have long been written, and this same Greek world chronicles began now,
like in the year 698 (56) completed the Kastor, son of the gallant
Deiotarus Koenigs them so far from Roman history neglected them in their
circle to draw. These works have, however, ebenwie Polybios, tries
to take the place of local history of the Mediterranean world to set,
but from what Polybios great view of clear and deep sense of history
evident in these chronicles is much more the product of the practical
need for the school and the self-teaching.

The artistic history of this world can spelling chronicles, textbooks
for schools or manuals for reference, and all related, even in
Latin later weitschichtig become very little literature zugezaehlt;
and named Nepos himself was a pure, neither by spirit, nor is it
only through Scheduled excellent Compilers. strange and highly
characteristic is the historiography of this time, however, but of
course so unpleasant as time itself, the interaction of Greek and
Latin literature occurs on any field so as to clear the history
here, the literatures in both substance and form, earlier in the
same and the uniform view of the Hellenic-Italian history, with the
Polybios his time vorangeeilt had already learned the Greek as the
Roman boy in school.

With state of the Mediterranean when a story writer had found,
before he himself was aware, it was now, where it had set itself
consciousness, neither the Greeks nor the Romans a man to make him
the right to expression could borrow.

A Roman history writing, says Cicero, there is not, and insofar as
we can judge, this is no more than the simple truth.

The research uses the case history from the history of writing research,
the historical literature varies between the textbook and the novel. All
genres of pure, epic, drama, poetry, history, are null and void in this
world, but in any genre but reflects the spiritual decay of the Cicerone
time so full of terrible clarity, again as in its historiography.
The little historical literature of this period has however among
many small productions and missing a font on the first rank: the memoirs
of Caesar, or rather the military report of the democratic Generals to the
people from whom he had received his orders. The completed and solely
by the author himself published section of the Celtic campaigns until the
year 702 (52) describes, apparently has the purpose of the formal start
Caesars unconstitutional, without mandate from the competent authority
in a big country to conquer and to this end Army constantly to multiply
as much as possible before the audience to justify it was written and
published in the year 703 (51), as the storm in Rome against Caesar
losbrach and he was invited, to dismiss his army, and the responsibility
to represent ^ 18 The author of this script requires justification,
as he himself says, as an officer and it carefully avoids the military
reporting on areas of concern of political organization and administration
to extend. Its in the form of a Militaerberichts designed casual and party
Scripture is itself a piece of history such as Napoleon's bulletins,
but a historical work in the right sense of the word, she is not
and should not be the objectivity of the presentation is not
historical, but the officials.

In this humble working class is the most complete and certainly like no
other in the entire Roman literature. The presentation is almost always
poor and never, ever pure and never discounts, always clear and never
curious vividness or mannered.

The language is completely pure of archaic as Vulgarismen, the type of
modern urbanity. The books by Buerger war anzufuehlen it says that the
author had the wish to avoid war and can not be avoided, perhaps,
that in Caesar's mind as in any other time of hope a cleaner and
fresher than the fulfillment, but about the written by Gallic War
is a bright gaiety, a simple grace poured out, which is no less
unique in the literature stand there like Caesar in history.
---------------------- -------------------------- ^ 18 That the
writings on the Gallic war, at once published, there is a long one
suspects, given the evidence provides the reference to the equality
of Boier and Haeduer in the first book (c. 28), but the Boier while
still in seventh (c. 10) as subjects of interest-bearing Haeduer
occur and apparently only because of their behavior and that of the
Haeduer in the Vercingetorix wars against equal rights with their
former masters were.

Other hand, who the history of the period closely, in the comments on
the crisis Milone (7, 6) find the evidence that is filed before the
outbreak of the Civil War was published, not because Pompey praise
here, but because the Caesar daselbst exemption laws from the year
702 (52) agrees.

This was and he had to do, as long as he is a peaceful agreement
with Pompey looking to bring, but not after the break, where he was
due to him for violating those laws were made umstiess convictions.

That is why the publication of these letters with full rights in the year
703 (51) has been set. The tendency of the font can be seen most clearly
in stable, often at the most determined in the Aquitaine expedition, not
happy with the motivation of each individual as a war led after Location
of the inevitable things Defensivmassregel.

Caesar's opponents that the attacks on the Celts and Germans primarily as
unprovoked censured, is known (Suet. CAES. 24). ------------------------
------------------------ relative nature of the correspondence of
statesmanship and writers of the time, in the following period with care
were collected and published: the Correspondence of Caesar himself, of
Cicero, and others calvus.

The actual literary achievements they may be even less beigezaehlt,
but for history as for any other research literature, this correspondence
was a rich archive and the most faithful reflection of an era in
which so much of times gone by decent salary and so much spirit, skill
and talent in drift is small and fragmented evaporated. A journalism in
the modern sense of the Romans never formed, and the literary
polemics remained dependent on Broschuerenliteratur and also possibly
at that time to the widespread custom of the audience for the notes
to certain public places the brush or pen shall take.

By contrast, subordinate individuals is used, for the absence
make the news and city Tagesvorfaelle record, even for the immediate
publication of an extract from the Senate negotiations Caesar
already met in his first consulate appropriate measures.

From the private journals of the Roman penny-a-liners and running from
these official reports, a kind of metropolitan intellectual sheet (acta
diurna), in which the Summary before the people and the Senate negotiated
transactions, as well as births, deaths and the like were recorded.
This was a not unimportant historical source, but remained without
any real political and non-literary significance.

In addition to the historical literature belongs by right of the
Redeschriftstellerei. The speech, recorded or not, is by nature
ephemeral and belongs not to the literature, however, it can, as
the report and the letter, and it even easier than this, by the
conciseness of the moment and the power of the Spirit, which they
rises occur among the remaining treasures of the national literature.

So playing in Rome because the records of the residents before the jury
or the speeches not just political content has long been a big role in
public life, but there were also speeches by name of Gaius Gracchus with
legal counted on the classical Roman writings. In this era but this
occurs on all sides turning a strange one. The political Redeschriftstellerei
is in decline as the government speech itself The policy speech was
held, in Rome about how even in the old Politie its peak in the negotiations
prior to the residents here are not tied to the speaker, as in the
Senate, collegial respect and annoying forms, not, as in the
courtroom speeches, the politics of to foreign interests of the
prosecution and defense; here just swelled him up against the heart
of the whole to his lips hang the large and powerful Roman folk
community.

Solo so it was now over. Not as if it gemangelt speakers or to the
publication of the residents before the speeches, but the political
writing was now quite wide and it began to the table below belong
to complaints that the guests of host lecture by his latest speeches
inkommodierte .

Also Publius Clodius had his speeches as brochures people expect ebenwie
Gaius Gracchus, but it is not the same when two men do the same. The
major leader of the opposition itself, especially Caesar himself,
spoke to the residents not often and published no longer the front
of her speeches, so they searched for some of their political
pamphlets in a different form than the traditional Contionen in
what respects including the praise and blame on Cato writings are
remarkable.

It is probably understandable. Gaius Gracchus had spoken to residents,
now spoke to the rabble, and, like the audience, so the speech. No
wonder, when the political writer reputierliche outfitting also
avoided, as if his words on the markets of the capital gathered
pile addressed.

So if the Redeschriftstellerei in their previous literary and political
coverage in the same way, forfeit, like all naturgemaess from the
national life developed branches of literature, it begins at the
same time, a strange non-political Plaedoyerliteratur.

Previously, we knew nothing about it that the Attorney lecture as
such, except for the judge and the parties, even for co-and post-world of
literary edification was determined that no administrator had his plea is
recorded and published, wofern not the same around both political speeches
were and so far is suitable, as party literature to be disseminated,
and even that was not often happen.

Still Quintus Hortensius (640-704 114-50), in the first years of this period
of the celebrated Roman Law, published only a few and it seems
only half-full or in political speeches.

Only his successor in the Principality of the Roman administrator, Marcus
Tullius Cicero (648-711 106-43), was out of the box as much as writers
court speaker, he regularly published his plea, and even if they are not
or only remotely linked with the policy . This is not progress but Unnatur
and decay. Also in Athens is the occurrence of non-political speeches
advocate among genres of literature as a sign of illness, and
zwiefach is it in Rome, that this deformity is not like Athens from
the overwrought rhetorical drift with a certain need produced, but
arbitrarily and in contradiction with the better traditions of the
nation abroad abgeborgt has.

Nevertheless, this new genre came swiftly in photograph, partly
because they are incompatible with the older political Redeschriftstellerei
often be touched and went along, partly because the unpoetische,
opinionated, rhetorisierende Roemer nature of the new seeds for a
better ground darbot how so today because the Attorney Speech and
even a kind of process literature in Italy means something.

So, the policy of the emancipated Redeschriftstellerei the citizens
right in the world by Roman writers Cicero.

We have this versatile man must do several times already. As a statesman,
without insight, opinion and intention, he has successively as a
democrat, aristocrat and as a tool of the monarch and figured is
never more than a short-sighted selfish.

What he seemed to act, were the questions on which it arrived, just regularly
dismissed so he joined in the process of the Senate against Verres
courts, when they were already eliminated, so he remained silent
during the hearing about the Gabin and advocated the Manil Act, as
he rumbled against Catiline, as his departure was already fixed,
and so on.

Against false attacks, he was huge and walls of cardboard, he has a lot
of crackling eingerannt; a serious thing is never, neither in good nor in
evil, it has been decided, and especially the execution of Catilinarier
he has done far more than the effect itself. In literary terms it's
already been pointed out that he was the creator of the modern Latin
prose was at its stylistics rests its significance, and only as a stylist,
he also displays a safe Selbstgefuehl. As a writer on the other hand, he
stands perfectly well as far as statesman. He has worked in diverse roles
are tried in infinite hexameters Marius' wholesale and retail his own
deeds sung with his speeches to Demosthenes, his philosophical
conversations with the Plato of the field beaten and the only time
he missed, to allow Thucydides to overcome.

He was indeed so perfectly bungler that it was making a pretty,
which he plowed field.

A journalist in the worst natural meaning of the word, with words, as he
himself says about rich, in terms of thought about all the poor, there
was no discipline, which he is not using books less rapidly a readable
essay on setting or compiling would have produced. On his most loyal
correspondent gives his picture again. It maintains it interesting and
witty to mention it is also, as long as they are the villas or
metropolitan life reflects the genteel world, but where the writer
dependent on itself, as in exile, in Cilicia Pharsalischen and after
the battle, it is dull and empty, as only the soul of each one of
his devious circles columnist.

The fact that such a state man and such a writer as a man could not
be otherwise than by weak ueberfirnisster superficiality and
heartlessness, it is hardly necessary to say.

Should we still describe the speaker? The great writer but also a great
man, and above all the great speakers the flows conviction and passion
and clearly buzzing from the depths of the chest showed as many of the
poor, the count and just are not. Cicero had no conviction and no passion,
nothing as he was not a good lawyer and advocate. He understood it, his
Sacherzaehlung anecdotal piquant, if not the feeling, but the sentimentality
of his listeners and to excite by jokes or personal nature Witzeleien
usually the dry business of justice to cheer up his better speeches,
although the grace and the free safe meeting place of exquisite
compositions of this type, for example, the memoirs of Beaumarchais,
far from being achieved, but an easy and pleasant reading.

Be but the advantages just described the grave as a judge merits very
dubious value appear to be the absolute lack of political sense
in state law, legal deduction in the courtroom speeches, the dutiful
forgotten, the thing is always about the lawyer from losing sight
of egoism, the grisly Gedankenoede any reader of Cicero's speeches
outraged hearts and minds.

"It has some very
pretty features, and we could manage to squeeze in, couldn't we?"

"You won't find another furnished flat like it for no two-fifty a month
in the whole city," the superintendent put in.

They exchanged glances again, and March said, carelessly, "It's too
small."

"There's a vacant flat in the Herodotus for eighteen hundred a year, and
one in the Thucydides for fifteen," the superintendent suggested,
clicking his keys together as they sank down in the elevator; "seven
rooms and bath."

"Thank you," said March; "we're looking for a furnished flat."

They felt that the superintendent parted from them with repressed
sarcasm.

"Oh, Basil, do you think we really made him think it was the smallness
and not the dearness?"

"No, but we saved our self-respect in the attempt; and that's a great
deal."

"Of course, I wouldn't have taken it, anyway, with only six rooms, and so
high up. But what prices! Now, we must be very circumspect about the next
place."

It was a janitress, large, fat, with her arms wound up in her apron, who
received them there. Mrs. March gave her a succinct but perfect statement
of their needs. She failed to grasp the nature of them, or feigned to do
so. She shook her head, and said that her son would show them the flat.
There was a radiator visible in the narrow hall, and Isabel tacitly
compromised on steam heat without an elevator, as the flat was only one
flight up. When the son appeared from below with a small kerosene
hand-lamp, it appeared that the flat was unfurnished, but there was no
stopping him till he had shown it in all its impossibility. When they got
safely away from it and into the street March said: "Well, have you had
enough for to-night, Isabel? Shall we go to the theatre now?"

"Not on any account. I want to see the whole list of flats that Mr.
Fulkerson thought would be the very thing for us." She laughed, but with
a certain bitterness.

"You'll be calling him my Mr. Fulkerson next, Isabel."

"Oh no!"

The fourth address was a furnished flat without a kitchen, in a house
with a general restaurant. The fifth was a furnished house. The wreckage
of the Corps, among them the most Schwertarm leader wounded, were
on a small hill pressed, where they protect only the hostile quite easy
to target served.

Mesopotamian Greeks to the area were closely acquainted, summoned the
Crassus with them abzureiten and an attempt to make the save, but he
refused to accept his fate from that of the brave men should be separated
by his courage in daring to run death had, and let the hand of his
Schildtraegers to pierce. Just gave him the most nor other officers
themselves to death.

From the whole of 6000-strong unit was not more than 500 captured,
managed to save none.
Perhaps it's the house-agents'. They're a
very illusory generation. There seems to be something in the human
habitation that corrupts the natures of those who deal in it, to buy or
sell it, to hire or let it. You go to an agent and tell him what kind of
a house you want. He has no such house, and he sends you to look at
something altogether different, upon the well-ascertained principle that
if you can't get what you want you will take what you can get. You don't
suppose the 'party' that took our house in Boston was looking for any
such house? He was looking for a totally different kind of house in
another part of the town."

"I don't believe that!" Allegory AS ARRANGED BY THEATER Lope Blás = = = Hucapte Printing
and bookbinding workshop = DU = FILIPINO DAY = "_Calle No. of
Sacristy. 954, Santa Cruz, Manila, IF_ = 1915 =.

The Council of the Gods = = critical literature in the contest to
commemorate the anniversary of the immortal Cervantes CCLXIV held
on Artistic Literary Lyceum of Manila on April 23, 1880, was granted
As a reward for the best compositions in prose, a ring with a cameo
bearing the bust of Cervantes.

"Referring to the result obtained in open competition for this anniversary
and noted that after 14 sheets were submitted, of which were
rejected all but those with the numbers 1 and 12, the jury said:
'Read the two papers, the undersigned have not hesitated in awarding
the prize, given the marked superiority of allegory with the number
12, and after making Extract from a work _Consejo of dioses_, whose
motto was _Con memories from the past entered the porvenir_, is as
follows: "As you see, the idea and the argument of obrita are of
great originality, which must be added the fact glow in a style all
of it up best, a wonderful richness of detail, delicacy of thought
and figures and, finally, a taste so that is the Greek reader found
enjoying a delicious passage of Homer, which so often describes his
work in the Olympic .-- sessions, so many wonderful qualities have
been weighed in the minds of those who subscribe to, without question,
hesitation or even prefer this to work is marked with number 1. [1]
= Dr .

José Rizal = The Council of the Gods = With memories of the past come in
the future.

Alegoria BE ARRANGED BY THEATER Lope Blás = = = Hucapte Printing and
bookbinding workshop = DU = FILIPINO DAY = "_Calle No. of
Sacristy. 954, Santa Cruz, Manila.

IF = 1915 =.

The waiter, who remembered them from year to year, had put them at a
window giving a pretty good section of Broadway, and before they set out
on their search they had a moment of reminiscence. They recalled the
Broadway of five, of ten, of twenty years ago, swelling and roaring with
a tide of gayly painted omnibuses and of picturesque traffic that the
horsecars have now banished from it. The grind of their wheels and the
clash of their harsh bells imperfectly fill the silence that the
omnibuses have left, and the eye misses the tumultuous perspective of
former times.

They went out and stood for a moment before Grace Church, and looked down
the stately thoroughfare, and found it no longer impressive, no longer
characteristic. It is still Broadway in name, but now it is like any
other street. You do not now take your life in your hand when you attempt
to cross it; the Broadway policeman who supported the elbow of timorous
beauty in the hollow of his cotton-gloved palm and guided its little
fearful boots over the crossing, while he arrested the billowy omnibuses
on either side with an imperious glance, is gone, and all that certain
processional, barbaric gayety of the place is gone.

"Palmyra, Baalbec, Timour of the Desert," said March, voicing their
common feeling of the change.

They turned and went into the beautiful church, and found themselves in
time for the matin service. Rapt far from New York, if not from earth, in
the dim richness of the painted light, the hallowed music took them with
solemn ecstasy; the aerial, aspiring Gothic forms seemed to lift them
heavenward. They came out, reluctant, into the dazzle and bustle of the
street, with a feeling that they were too good for it, which they
confessed to each other with whimsical consciousness.

"But no matter how consecrated we feel now," he said, "we mustn't forget
that we went into the church for precisely the same reason that we went
to the Vienna Cafe for breakfast--to gratify an aesthetic sense, to renew
the faded pleasure of travel for a moment, to get back into the Europe of
our youth. It was a purely Pagan impulse, Isabel, and we'd better own
it."

"I don't know," she returned. "I think we reduce ourselves to the bare
bones too much. I wish we didn't always recognize the facts as we do.
Sometimes I should like to blink them. I should like to think I was
devouter than I am, and younger and prettier."

"Better not; you couldn't keep it up. Honesty is the best policy even in
such things."

"No; I don't like it, Basil. I should rather wait till the last day for
some of my motives to come to the top. I know they're always mixed, but
do let me give them the benefit of a doubt sometimes."

"Well, well, have it your own way, my dear. But I prefer not to lay up so
many disagreeable surprises for myself at that time."

She would not consent. "I know I am a good deal younger than I was. I
feel quite in the mood of that morning when we walked down Broadway on
our wedding journey. Don't you?"

"Oh yes. But I know I'm not younger; I'm only prettier."

She laughed for pleasure in his joke, and also for unconscious joy in the
gay New York weather, in which there was no 'arriere pensee' of the east
wind. They had crossed Broadway, and were walking over to Washington
Square, in the region of which they now hoped to place themselves. The
'primo tenore' statue of Garibaldi had already taken possession of the
place in the name of Latin progress, and they met Italian faces, French
faces, Spanish faces, as they strolled over the asphalt walks, under the
thinning shadows of the autumn-stricken sycamores. They met the familiar
picturesque raggedness of Southern Europe with the old kindly illusion
that somehow it existed for their appreciation, and that it found
adequate compensation for poverty in this. March thought he sufficiently
expressed his tacit sympathy in sitting down on one of the iron benches
with his wife and letting a little Neapolitan put a superfluous shine on
his boots, while their desultory comment wandered with equal esteem to
the old-fashioned American respectability which keeps the north side of
the square in vast mansions of red brick, and the international
shabbiness which has invaded the southern border, and broken it up into
lodging-houses, shops, beer-gardens, and studios.

The whole Heerhaufen was destroyed. --------------------------------------------
- ^ 18 That cotta, though not sub-captain of the Sabinus, but his legacy,
but the younger and less prestigious General and probably in the case of
a difference that was instructed to add, it is clear both from the
earlier performance of Sabinus, a fact that, where both are mentioned
together (Gall. 4, 22, 37, 5, 24, 26, 52, 6, 32; different 6, 37),
preceded by Sabinus regularly, no less from the story of the disaster
itself may also be but impossible to assume that Caesar a camp two
officers with the same powers and prefixed for the case of disagreement
no arrangement is made.

Also include the five cohorts are not as legion (cf. Gall. 6, 32,
33), as little as twelve cohorts of Rheinbruecke (Gall. 6, 29 see 32,
33), and seem from other detachments Heerteile existed to have to make the
Germans the opportunity to reinforce camp had been assigned.
---------------------------------- ------------ This success, as
the Insurgente himself hardly have hoped want to increase the
fermentation under the Celtic patriots are so big that the Romans,
with the exception of Haeduer and Reiner, no single district also
were safe and at various points of the uprising losbrach.

Above all, it's the Eburones their victory. Reinforced by the presence
of Aduatuker who like the opportunity is taken, the Caesar of suffering
inflicted on them retaliate, and the powerful and still unbezwungenen
Menapii, they appeared in the field of Nervian, which is immediately
followed, and the whole ie to 60000 heads swollen swarm moved in
front of the Gau nervischen are Roman camp.

Quintus Cicero, who commanded, was weak with his corps in a difficult
position, particularly as the besieger, the enemies of learning,
ramparts and ditches, and movable towers Schilddaecher in Roman
manner, and performed with the thatched Lagerhuetten fire spinning
and fire Peere overwhelmed.

The only hope of the besieged was based on Caesar, not too far away in
the region of Amiens, with three legions in the winter camp stood.

Solo - a characteristic of evidence for the Celts in the country
atmosphere - came through in good time the Lord Oberfeld not the
slightest allusion to either of the disaster of Sabinus, nor by the
dangerous situation of Cicero.

Finally succeeded Celtic horsemen from Cicero's camp, by the enemy to
Caesar durchzuschleichen. At the customer broke the shocking moment to
Caesar, but only with two weak legions, together about 7000 men
strong, and 400 riders, but nonetheless sufficient to report that
Caesar anrueckte to Insurgente repealing the siege to be determined.

It was time; not the tenth man in Cicero's camp was unspoilt. Caesar,
against whom the camp was led Insurgentenheer is deceptive in the enemies
have repeatedly been applied with success on his way thickness, under
the unfavorable conditions they dared to storm the Roman camp and
suffered a defeat.

It is strange, but typical for the Celtic nation, as a result of
this a lost battle, or perhaps even more so due to Caesar's personal
appearance on the battlefield so victoriously encountered so widely
extended Insurrektion suddenly and miserably abandoned the war.
Nervian, Menapii, Aduatuker, Eburones went home. The same did the teams
of Seegaue, the Institute had made, the Legion in Brittany about to fall.
The Treviri, whose leader Indutiomarus the Eburones, the clients of
the powerful Nachbargaus, so to that successful attack has been mainly had
the client on the disaster Aduatuca of the weapons and were taken into the
territory of the Remer indented to the Labienus 'command there
kantonnierende Legion to attack, but they were now for the continuation
of the battle.

Not Caesar reluctantly postponed the further measures against the districts
up to the spring to maintain its hard not to bring troops all over
the severity of the Gallic winter suspend and then again on the
battlefield to appear when ordered by the dismantling of the thirty
new cohorts destroyed fuenfzehn in impressive manner would be
replaced.

The suspense now Insurrektion has continued, albeit initially rested
arms. Its headquarters in central Gaul were some of the districts and
the neighboring Carnuten Senoner (by Sens), which the latter used
by Caesar Koenig hunted from the country, partly the landscape of Treviri
what the whole Celtic ueberrheinischen Emigration and the Germans to
participate in the forthcoming National war and called her whole team
aufboten to the spring for the second time in the territory of the
Romans einzuruecken, the Corps of Labienus lift and the connection with
the insurgents on the Seine and Loire search. Members of these three
Gaue remained in the middle of Caesar in Gaul out of parliament and
declared so just open the war, as a part of the Belgian Gaue by
the attacks on the camp of Sabinus and Cicero had done. The
winter came to an end, as Caesar with his army closer look now
aufbrach against Insurgente.

The attempts of the Treviri the insurgency to focus, were not successful,
and the fertile landscapes have been the invasion by Roman troops are
kept at bay, the open outcry in the isolated attack. First, the
Nervian Caesar himself driven pairs.

The same befell the Senoner and Carnuten. Also, the Menapii, the only
Gau, who never even subjected to the Romans, was one of three by
both sides against them overall attack forced the long preserved
liberty to abdicate.

The Treviri prepared now Labienus same fate. Your first attack had been
partially paralyzed by the refusal of the German tribes naechstwohnenden,
Soeldner them to deliver, partly because Indutiomarus, the soul of the
whole movement, in a skirmish with the cavalry had remained Labienus.
Solo gave her not to draft a question.

With all their banns published Labienus against it and wait the next
German crowds, for better reception than the residents of the Rhine had
its advertisers in the disputable setting of the inner Voelkerschaften
Germany, particularly as it seems, found the chat. Solo da Labienus mine
did this to dodge over the head and neck abmarschieren wanting to access
the Treviri even before the Germans arrived and were in the worst location,
the Romans and were completely beaten. The Germans arriving too late was
nothing left than to reverse , the Gau treverischen nothing more than
to subjugate; daselbst the regiment came back to the head of the Roman
party at the Indutiomarus son Cingetorix. After these expeditions against
the Caesars Menapii and Labienus against Treviri met in the territory of
the latter, the entire Roman army back together.

To the Germans, the return to verleiden, Caesar was once more
on the Rhine, possibly to the annoying neighbors a strong blow to
lead alone since the chat, their tactics proven true, is not on its western
border, but further inland, it seems am Harz, gathered national
defense, he returned once again and did, in the Rhine Uebergang crew
behind. With all of the insurgency Voelkerschaften was settled, only
the Eburones were received on, but not forgotten. Since the disaster
of Caesar Aduatuca had, he wore the mourning garb, and had sworn
that off until it when he's not honest wars fallen, but insidiously
murdered soldiers would have avenged. Tatlos Council and the Eburones
sat in their huts and watched as one after the other the Nachbargaue be
submitted to the Romans, until the Roman cavalry treverischen from the
area through the Ardennes in their country einrueckte. There was so little
focus on the attack that they almost Koenig Ambiorix taken in his home
would have, with the exact need, while his entourage for him to
aufopferte, he escaped into the nearby woods. Soon followed the
horsemen ten Roman legions. At the same time was given to the umwohnenden
Voelkerschaften the call, with the Roman soldiers in the bird community
Eburones free to rush and to plunder their land, not a few have followed
the call, even from beyond the Rhine a pertly Scharnstein sugambrischer
Rider, which by the way the Romans it not be better how did the
Eburones and almost by a bold hand, the Roman camp at Aduatuca surprise
would have. The fate of the Eburones was appalling. How they even in woods
and swamps to Bargen, the hunters were more than the game. Some people
gave themselves to death as the aged Fuerst Catuvolcus; rescued only
individual life and liberty, in these few but the man on which the
Romans mainly hunt, the Fuerst Ambiorix: with only four riders entrann
he crossed the Rhine. In this execution against the Gau, before all
other gefrevelt followed in the other landscapes, the treason trials against
the individual. The time for clemency was past. After the award of the
Roman proconsul was the prestigious Knight carnutische Acco Liktoren
beheaded by Roman (701 53) and the domination of the rods and axes
thus formally inaugurated. The opposition fell silent: silence reigned
everywhere. Caesar was, as he used in the late 701 (53) over the
Alps, the winter is always more verwickelnden ratio in the capital
from up close. The wise this machine had to be charged. The fire was
subdued, but not deleted. The string, in the main Accos was felt
throughout the Celtic nobility. Eben now offered the position of
things more likely than ever. The Insurrektion the last winter was
apparently just failed, that Caesar himself on the battlefield had been
published, but now he was away, close by the impending civil war, held
at the Po, and the Gallic army, is at the top of his was drawn
together, far separated from the dreaded commander.

Now, when a general insurrection broke out in Central Gaul, it was the
Roman army surrounded, almost undefended Roman province flooded out
before Caesar again stood beyond the Alps, even if the Italic entanglements
not all about him held, also to Gaul to care. Verschworene from all Central
Gaulish Gauen met the Carnuten than by execution Accos First affected,
offered to go ahead. To set the days in winter 701/02 (53/52) gave the
carnutischen Knight Gutruatus and Conconnetodumnus in Cenabum
(Orleans) the sign for the collection and made the whole daselbst
present Roemer down.

The violent movement took the whole country Celts; everywhere inspired the
patriots. Nothing but took the nation as deeply as the collection plate
of Arverni. The government of this municipality, once under their
king, the first in southern Gaul, and that after the unfortunate wars
against Rome brought about its collapse Principality of one of the richest,
most powerful and educated in the whole of Gaul remained, had hitherto
kept unceasing Rome. Even now, the Patriot Party in the ruling council in
the minority, an attempt from the same accession to the Insurrektion to
obtain, it was in vain. The attacks targeted the Patriots so against
the council and the existing Constitution itself, and more so than the
Verfassungsaenderung, when the Arverni the council to replace the
Fuersten had, after the victories of the Romans, and probably
under the influence of the same was done.

The leader of the patriots Arverni, Vercingetorix, one of the
nobles, as they probably deal with the Celts, almost royal reputation in
and outside his district, plus a handsome, brave, wise man, left the
capital and called the peasantry, which the ruling oligarchy was as hostile
as the Romans, but also to restore the kingdom and Arverni to war against
Rome. Quickly the crowd was with him, and the restoration of the throne
of Luerius and Betuhus was also the explanation of the National War
against Rome. Single Stop, which lack any of the previous attempts
of the nation, the foreign yoke of itself off, failed, she found in the
new king of the self Arverni. Vercingetorix was for the Celts of the
mainland, for which the island Celts Cassivellaunus; huge permeated
the masses the feeling that he or none of the men had to rescue the
nation. Rasch was the west from the mouth of the Garonne to that of
the Seine from the records and Insurrektion Vercingetorix here from all
Gauen as Mr.

Oberfeld recognized, where the council difficulty making the crowd
urged him to be connected to the movement, few Gaue, as the the Biturigen,
left to join the force, and perhaps it is only a sham. Less favorable
soil was the uprising in the countryside east of the upper Loire.
Everything came here to the Haeduer to, and these fluctuated. The
Patriot Party in Gau was very powerful, but the old antagonism against
the leading Arverni did they influence the balance - to the detriment of
vulnerable Insurrektion, since the connection of the eastern cantons,
including the Sequaner and Helvetie, by the accession of the Haeduer
was conditionally And anyway in this part of Gaul, the decision stood
with them.

Thus, while the insurgents worked, some are still fluctuating cantons,
especially the Haeduer to accession to move, partly to Narbos to conquer
- one of their guides, the daring Lucterius had already within the
borders of the ancient province of the Tarn is shown -- appeared
suddenly in deep winter, friends and foes equally unexpected, the
Roman Oberfeld Lord within the Alps.

Quickly, he met not only the necessary institutions to the old province to
cover, but also sent out over the snow into a pile of Cévennes Arverni
the area; But his was not staying here, where every moment of his
entrance to the Haeduer the Gallic Buendnis to his Sens and Langres
could cut army store.

In silence, he went to Vienna and from there, only a few riders
accompanied by the area of Haeduer to his troops.

The hopes disappeared, which Verschworenen had intended to hit, it
remained in Italy and Peace Caesar once stood at the head of his army. But
what should they start?

It was a folly, under such circumstances to the decision of the weapons
are to arrive, because they had already irrevocably decided.

One could just as well try to use the Alpine Steinwuerfen to shake as the
legions of the Celtic pile, liked the same now in huge masses
zusammengeballt or agreed Gau tent after the other, be divulged.

Vercingetorix renounced to the Romans to beat. He adopted a similar system
to the war, as that was, by the Celts Cassivellaunus the island had
saved. The Roman people were not walking to beat, but Caesar's cavalry
consisted almost entirely from the influx of the Celtic nobility and
was through the general waste actually dissolved. It was the Insurrektion,
which is just far from the Celtic nobility existed possible in this
weapon such superiority to develop that they are far and wide the land
lay barren, towns and villages burn, destroy the stocks, the board
and the connections could threaten the enemy, without the same it could
seriously hinder. Vercingetorix therefore directed all its efforts
on the propagation of the cavalry and then under way fencing regularly
associated archers on foot. The huge and paralyzing himself masses
of the militia line, he is not home, but they did not before the enemy
and tried some of them gradually Schanz, marching and maneuvering and the
insight to know that the soldier is not just determined, to scuffle.
Of the enemies of learning, namely, he adopted the Roman camp system on
which the entire mystery of the tactical superiority of the Romans was
based, as a result of any Roman corps united all the advantages
of the fortress crew with all the advantages of Offensive Army ^
19 Certainly that was the staedtearmen Britain and its rough, firm
and some residents in the entire system fully adequate to the rich
landscapes of the Loire and its tired, in full political disintegration
dwellers are not necessarily transferable.

Vercingetorix continued at least through that you're not so far as each
city tried to keep and therefore not held, one was agreed that the
defense was not libelous towns, before they reached the attack to
destroy the strong fortresses but with the whole hand to defend .

Besides the Arvernerkoenig did what he could, through the rigor
unnachsichtliche figs and defaulting, requests and ideas by the
fluctuating, the Habsuechtigen by gold, forced by strong opponents
of the cause of the fatherland and to captivate even the low rabble,
or some aufzunoetigen patriotism or abzulisten.
--------------------------------------------- ----------- ^ 19
Admittedly, this was only possible as long as the principal offensive
weapons to slash and stab were addressed.

In today's Kriegfuehrung is, as Napoleon I. great deal has set this
system, therefore, unenforceable because of our own, from a distance
looking offensive weapons deployierte the position is more favorable
than the concentric.

In Caesar's time it behaved vice versa. ------------------------------------------
----------- Even before the winter was over, he threw out in the field
of Haeduer of Caesar appeared Boier to this almost single reliable allies
to destroy Rome, before Caesar drew. The news of this attack some even
Caesar, with abandonment of the luggage and two legions in the winter
quarters of Agedincum (Sens), and once earlier than he otherwise probably
would have done, against the Insurgente march. The acute shortage of
cavalry and light foot people he helped somewhat by starting gradually
herbeigezogene German mercenaries who take their own small and weak Klepper
with Italic and Spanish, some purchased, some of the officers requisitioned
horses were equipped. Caesar, after he on the capital of the
Carnuten, Cenabum containing the character where the waste had
to loot and leave ashes lay, moved over the Loire in the landscape of
Biturigen.

He reached that Vercingetorix the siege of the city of abandoned
Boier and also to the Biturigen went.

This should be the first to experiment with new Kriegfuehrung. On
Vercingetorix 'behest went on a days more than twenty towns of
Biturigen in flames with the same Selbstverwuestung imposed on the
captain of the neighboring Gaue, insofar as they are of Roman Streif
parties could be achieved.

After his intent should include the rich and solid capital Biturigen
Avaricum (Bourges) meet the same fate, only the majority of the War
gave the kniefaelligen request of the authorities after biturigischen
and decided that this city much more strongly to defend.

So the war has focused initially Avaricum.

Vercingetorix put his foot in the midst of the people of the city in a
neighboring swamps so unapproachable. Position on that, even in the
absence of the cavalry to be covered, the attack by the legions need
to fear not. The Celtic cavalry covered all the streets and inhibited
communication. The city was heavily occupied and between it and the
army before the walls of the connection open. Caesar's situation was very
difficult. The attempt to walk the Celtic people to get to hitting,
failed, it does not move from his unassailable lines. How brave
of the city before his schanzten soldiers and challenged the besieged
competed with them Erfindsamkeit and courage, and they almost would have
succeeded in breaking the siege of the enemy stuff to put on fire. It was
the task of passing an army of 60,000 men in a largely barren of three
and a far superior rider durchstreiften landscape masses with food
supply, daily more difficult.

The low inventories of Boier were soon consumed, by the promised
Haeduern intake did not, already the grain was consumed and the
soldier only to meat rations set.
If it were not for the
marble halls, and the decorations, and the foolishly expensive finish,
the houses could be built round a court, and the flats could be shaped
something like a Pompeiian house, with small sleeping-closets--only lit
from the outside--and the rest of the floor thrown into two or three
large cheerful halls, where all the family life could go on, and society
could be transacted unpretentiously. Why, those tenements are better and
humaner than those flats! There the whole family lives in the kitchen,
and has its consciousness of being; but the flat abolishes the family
consciousness. It's confinement without coziness; it's cluttered without
being snug. You couldn't keep a self-respecting cat in a flat; you
couldn't go down cellar to get cider. No! the Anglo-Saxon home, as we
know it in the Anglo-Saxon house, is simply impossible in the
Franco-American flat, not because it's humble, but because it's false."

"Well, then," said Mrs. March, "let's look at houses."

He had been denouncing the flat in the abstract, and he had not expected
this concrete result. But he said, "We will look at houses, then."


X.

Nothing mystifies a man more than a woman's aberrations from some point
at which he, supposes her fixed as a star. In these unfurnished houses,
without steam or elevator, March followed his wife about with patient
wonder. She rather liked the worst of them best: but she made him go down
into the cellars and look at the furnaces; she exacted from him a rigid
inquest of the plumbing. She followed him into one of the cellars by the
fitful glare of successively lighted matches, and they enjoyed a moment
in which the anomaly of their presence there on that errand, so remote
from all the facts of their long-established life in Boston, realized
itself for them.

"Think how easily we might have been murdered and nobody been any the
wiser!" she said when they were comfortably outdoors again.

"Yes, or made way with ourselves in an access of emotional insanity,
supposed to have been induced by unavailing flat-hunting," he suggested.
She fell in with the notion. "I'm beginning to feel crazy. But I don't
want you to lose your head, Basil. And I don't want you to sentimentalize
any of the things you see in New York. I think you were disposed to do it
in that street we drove through. I don't believe there's any real
suffering--not real suffering--among those people; that is, it would be
suffering from our point of view, but they've been used to it all their
lives, and they don't feel their' discomfort so much."

"Of course, I understand that, and I don't propose to sentimentalize
them. I think when people get used to a bad state of things they had
better stick to it; in fact, they don't usually like a better state so
well, and I shall keep that firmly in mind."

She laughed with him, and they walked along the L bestridden avenue,
exhilarated by their escape from murder and suicide in that cellar,
toward the nearest cross town track, which they meant to take home to
their hotel. "Now to-night we will go to the theatre," she said, "and get
this whole house business out of our minds, and be perfectly fresh for a
new start in the morning." Suddenly she clutched his arm. "Why, did you
see that man?" and she signed with her head toward a decently dressed
person who walked beside them, next the gutter, stooping over as if to
examine it, and half halting at times.

"No. What?"

"Why, I saw him pick up a dirty bit of cracker from the pavement and cram
it into his mouth and eat it down as if he were famished. And look! But
it seemed only by the opponents abzuhaengen, as properly pursue
his victory, the full fruit of that harvest.

At Pompey was to take the offensive, and he was determined. It offered him
three different ways of ensuring his victory to make fruitful. The first
and simplest was overcome by the army and not drain when they aufbrach
them to pursue.

Furthermore, even Caesar and Pompey's nuclear forces in Greece and leave
to stand for himself, as he had prepared a long, with the main
army on travel to Italy, where the mood was decided antimonarchisch
and the army of Caesar, by posting the best troops and the valiant
commander and reliable to the Greek army, did not mean much wanted.

Finally, the winner also in the inland country, the legions of
Metellus Scipio and lent itself to trying to land in the interior
forces Caesars repealed.

It had this just after the second shipment had arrived with him,
partly to Subsistenzmittel for his army herbeizuschaffen strong
detachment after Aetolien Thessaly and deployed corps of part two
legions under Gnaeus Domitian Calvinus on the Chaussee Egnatischen
proceed against Macedonia be the same on the road from her move
Thessalon Corps of Scipio the way embarrassed and perhaps it should
propose one.

"Yes? And what part of Christendom will you live in? Such things are
possible everywhere in our conditions."

"Then we must change the conditions--"

"Oh no; we must go to the theatre and forget them. We can stop at
Brentano's for our tickets as we pass through Union Square."

I do not want to talk about the many Indians that it forces them
to transit through this step, and the havoc they cause to Buenos
Aires, because of all that you have very long news and knowledge.

I'm going just to take care of what might prevent the enemies of the
crown the occupation of this site: as by preventing or strong guard who
you have projected, the transit costs of the sea, can not help the enemies
of the crown, and this is where I believe we should put more effort,
because the home is the worst. They say many (I have heard several times),
how we can serve the Patagonian coast?

What should we make of it - by sugetos And that they might not
otherwise know to enjoy salaries and can not form the slightest
idea of what is the Patagonian coast, nor even understand the
simplest.

Reckless daring, let the circumstances of men want to penetrate the
mysteries of the King! But I get tired, if you nearly three centuries
that formed the colony of Buenos Aires, and still do not know whether
or not Cape San Antonio, being as it is behind the door, and is causing
a bad navegacion uncertainty, it is true that the length in which
the costs are contained, there is no such place, because I have
spent several times over, without having seen him, and insurance
on the length of Montevideo, or sailing from the S port, is not any
land, and lately, if not for the commitment so strong that you has
discovered that the way by land to Buenos Aires by land, would not
the concept that this traffic was impossible, and actually believed?

So I offered to do Having discovered this, and to drive cattle for this
establishment, a Board that was done, I had a multitude of difficulties,
and among them was one that was full of the way so many that it was
impossible tembladerales passable. Yet've worked so that there
was no doubt that they were apocryphal all difficulties and news, as we
were at the beginning until now, that has the effectiveness of you
the disappointment evident.

The plain or valley, where this river in the lower 60 or 70 miles
I walked, have beautiful pieces of land dispersed, or separated
from each other and parag are those that achieve the benefits of
irrigation, which often provide them with the rising river.

Since Chuelechel down, ie, following the river downstream to its drain,
many families can be established, or do many girls scattered populations
or separated from each other in the same line that are good sites,
but this is serious disadvantage of the poor neighborhood of the Indians,
and hence is aware of these circumstances you are in terms of
recognition, you premeditated this project.

On the foundations of which must be added that would be useful to the
State, occupying this parag towards the enemies of the crown. The port
of San Jose has no objection to leave any port to be above, and
vessels that can cool up there : 2000 and there may be more cattle,
you can have sheep and horses without fear that the Indians stolen.

Having won, it can lead to water sources, and we already have the
main items that you may fail to the boat or boats up there.

By any boat that can lead to the river port of drinks that are lacking
there.

On land there where no boat can bring the news there on horseback, which
is two-day trip and a half up the river, and is setting up this
can take at most four days, and here you can help with whatever you
need and there has not.

The water sources in the port of San Jose is not as fine as this
river, which is much higher than that, though slightly thicker: it
is very healthy and clean water, this is evidenced by the experience,
since the beginning of the expedition, having assaulted scurvy our
people, all who entered but never left the hospital for burial.

Given this is the last thing sent to all patients to sources, and other
medicine to drink from that water, all convalescing and returned
sound and that eating meat salted, for want of subsistence, and
pestilent bread flour.

Then it seems that water is very healthy and the best antidote to
scurvy.

She could not forego the
opportunity of saying, "My husband is coming to New York to take charge
of a literary periodical, and he will have to have a room to write in,"
which made Mrs. Green bow to March, and made March look sheepish. "But we
did think the apartment very charming", (It was architecturally charming,
she protested to her conscience), "and we should have been so glad if we
could have got into it." She followed this with some account of their
house-hunting, amid soft murmurs of sympathy from Mrs. Green, who said
that she had been through all that, and that if she could have shown her
apartment to them she felt sure that she could have explained it so that
they would have seen its capabilities better, Mrs. March assented to
this, and Mrs. Green added that if they found nothing exactly suitable
she would be glad to have them look at it again; and then Mrs. March said
that she was going back to Boston herself, but she was leaving Mr. March
to continue the search; and she had no doubt he would be only too glad to
see the apartment by daylight. "But if you take it, Basil," she warned
him, when they were alone, "I shall simply renounce you. I wouldn't live
in that junk-shop if you gave it to me. But who would have thought she
was that kind of looking person? Though of course I might have known if I
had stopped to think once. It's because the place doesn't express her at
all that it's so unlike her. It couldn't be like anybody, or anything
that flies in the air, or creeps upon the earth, or swims in the waters
under the earth. So terrorized, the majority decided, was what you
ordered: Caesar that up to a certain, not distant days otherworldly Gaul
to Lucius Ahenobarbus Domitian, the Diesseits to Marcus Servilius Nonianus
and to the army had to dismiss, failing which he would be considered
as Hochverraeter . When the Tribune by Caesar's party against the decision
of their Interzessionsrechts be served, they were not merely, as they
claimed at least, in the Curia itself Pompeianischen of soldiers
with swords and threatened in order to save their lives in slave
clothes from the capital to flee forced, but it also dealt with the
Senate now sufficiently intimidated by her formal action such as a
constitutional revolution attempt, said the fatherland is in danger
and called in the usual forms of the total residents in the arms
and at the forefront of all the Armed abiding constitutional officers
(7. 705 January 49). ---------------------------------------------
- ^ 3 to differ from the consul of the same year, 704 (SO), which
was a cousin of the consul of the year 705 (49) is a brother of
Marcus Marcellus, Consul 703 (51). -------- --------------------------------------
Well, it was enough.

Like Caesar beseechingly through the protection to him to the camp by
the fleeing Tribune recording was informed that its proposals in the
capital had found, he called the soldiers of the thirteenth legion,
which is now out of their cantonment in Tergeste (Trieste) had
arrived in Ravenna together and developed before them the state of
things.

It was not just the brilliant heritage and spirit Herzenskuendiger rulers,
whose brilliant speech in this shocking turning point of his world
and the skills emporleuchtete high and flared, not just Heermeister
of generosity and the good victorious captain, who spoke to the
soldiers, which he even called the weapons and for eight years with
ever increasing enthusiasm for his flags were followed, it said,
especially the strong and consistent leader who is now twenty-nine
years since the cause of freedom in good time and boeser represented,
for the daggers of the murderers and torturers of the aristocracy
the swords of the Germans and the unknown waters of the ocean spite
had offered, without ever having to soft and to sway the constitution
torn Sullanische, the regiment of the Senate led to the defenseless
and unarmed democracy in the struggle beyond the Alps and armored
beschildet had, and he did not speak to the audience clodianischen
whose Republican enthusiasm for a long ash and slag was burnt, but
to the young teams from the towns and villages in northern Italy,
the powerful idea of civil liberties still felt fresh and pure,
still capable had to fight for ideals and die, even for their
landscape by the government failed them legal citizens in revolutionary
ways had received from Caesar, the Caesars overthrow the rods and
axes again Disclosure and the actual evidence of it already owned,
such as unrelenting Use the oligarchy against which to make
Transpadaner thought.

Before such an audience, such a speaker presented the facts: Thanks
for the conquest of Gaul, the aristocracy of the commander and the
army was preparing to eliminate the dismissive Komitien who terrorize
the Senate, the sacred duty, which for half a millennium ago by the
fathers with the weapons in the hands of the nobility abgezwungene
Volkstribunat with gewaffneter hand to shield the old oath to keep
those for the like for their grandchildren's grandchildren done for
the Tribune for the community man man einzustehen till death.

When he, the leader and captain of the Popular Party, the soldiers of the
people calling now that the Gueteversuch exhausted, the indulgence to the
extreme limits was now to follow him in the past, the inevitable,
the decisive battle against the well hated how despised, just as
perfidious as incompetent and to ridicule incorrigible Adel - there was
no officer and no soldier who would have zurueckgehalten. The departure
was ordered, at the head of his progressive Vortrabs about Caesar
the narrow stream that his province resigned from Italy and beyond
which the Constitution gives Proconsul of Gaul captivated.

By neunjaehriger absence after the soil of the Fatherland again
entered, he also entered the orbit of the revolution.

"The cube was thrown." 10 Chapter Brundisium, Ilerda, Pharsalos and Thapsus
Between the two previous Gesamtherrschern Rome So the weapons should be
deciding which of them was appointed, the first sole ruler of Rome
to be.

We can see how for the forthcoming Kriegfuehrung between Caesar and
Pompey the Machtverhaeltnis had.

Caesar's power rested initially completely full of violence, which he
enjoyed within his party. If the ideas of democracy and the monarchy
went into her, this was not the result of an accidental and
accidental received detachable coalition, but it was in the deepest
essence of democracy without Repraesentativverfassung grounds that
democracy simultaneously monarchy as their highest and final
expression in Caesar found.

Politically, such as military ruled by Caesar in the first and last instance.
In such high honors, he also gave each useful tool, but it has
remained ever tool: Caesar stood with his party comrades without,
just surrounded by military-political aide, which usually emerged
from the army and trained as soldiers were nowhere after reason and
purpose to ask, but to obey absolutely.

Therefore, especially in the crucial moment when the civil war started,
all of Caesar's soldiers and officers, only one refused to obey
him, and it only confirmed this view of the relationship to Caesar
his followers that it is a just the first of all was .

Titus Caesar Labienus had with all the tribulations of the dark
catilinarischen time as all the splendor of the Gallic victories shared
career, had regularly self employed and often commanded the army half a
run, he was without question as the oldest, most faithful and
efficient at Caesar's adjutants, including hoechstgestellte and at
the highest geehrte.

Even in the year 704 (50) Caesar had him the supreme command in Gaul
on this side, so as to provide some confidence heading into this safe
hands, and partly also Labienus in his candidature for the consulate in
order to promote.

Labienus Solo ebenhier joined with the other party in connection went to
the start of hostilities in the year 705 (49), rather than Caesar
in Pompey 'headquarters and fought throughout the Civil War with
unprecedented bitterness against his old friend and war lord.

We are not about Labienus' character or about the individual circumstances
of his party to change enough informed, but essentially this is certainly
no other than further proof that the Kriegsfuerst much surer on his
captains as to his marshals can count. It appears Labienus was one of
those personalities, the military usefulness of statesmanship
complete inability to unite and if they want to make policy
Unfortunately, or should, those are great Schwindelanfaellen, of
which the history of the Napoleonic marshals many tragicomic example
shows.

He might well be entitled to hold, as the second head of the Democracy
next Caesar to apply, and that it was rejected this claim, it is in
the camp of the opponents have had.

It was shown here for the first time the full gravity of the stand Uebel
that Caesar's treatment of its officers as an aide not dependent on
the takeover of an appropriate separate commands men in his camp had
come up while he was in the easily foreseeable fragmentation of
the forthcoming Kriegfuehrung through all provinces of the wide
empire men equally urgently needed.

With this disadvantage was offset by far still the first and only
at this price to preserve a condition of every success, the unity of the
senior management. The single line has received its full force by the
usefulness of the tools. This was primarily in the army. It has nine legions
of infantry or a maximum of 50,000 men, but they all stood in front of
the enemy and from which two third of all campaigns against the Celts
had joined. The cavalry consisted of German and Noric mercenaries,
their usefulness and reliability in the war against Vercingetorix been
tried. The full achtjaehrige manifold Wechselfaelle war against the
brave, even if the military decided Italic following Caesar Celtic
nation had the opportunity to organize his army, as only he understood to
organize. All the fitness of the soldiers will require physical ability:
at Caesars has been digging on strength and agility of recruits more
than property and morality seen. But the capabilities of the Army based
on the way in which each machine, especially on the ease and speed
of movement in readiness for immediate departure at any time and in the
speed of the marching soldiers acquired Caesars reached a rare and probably
never surpassed perfection . Courage was of course about everything: the
art of the warlike emulation and the esprit de corps a boost, so
that the preference of individual soldiers and units themselves
Zurueckstehenden as the necessary hierarchy of bravery appeared, Caesar
did with unmatched championship. He habituated to people from fear by
giving where there is no serious danger could happen, the soldiers often
of an imminent battle began not in knowledge, but they suddenly take
on the enemy left. But the courage was equal to the obedience. The soldier
has been stopped, which ordered to do without the cause and intention
to ask, and some futile strain was only as a serious exercise in the art
of blind obedience imposed on him. The discipline was strict, but
not embarrassing: unnachsichtlich it was handled, where the soldier stood
in front of the enemies, at other times, especially after the
victory, the reins have been abated, and if it is otherwise useful to
the soldiers then popular, to perfume or with elegant weapons and other
things to clean, even if he or wrongly brutalities skills even safer
way to guilty and not only first, the military relationships have been
affected, there has been Narrenteidung as the crime to him and desfaelligen
Provincial grievances were at the commander a deaf ear. Mutiny on
the other hand, was not just the instigator, but the Corps itself, never
forgiven.

But the right is not merely a soldier at all about efficiency, brave and
obedient, but he is all of this willingly, indeed voluntary, and only
great natures, it is given by example and by hope, and above all the
awareness needed to be appropriate, the soulful machine which govern them,
to joyful service to determine. If the officer to his men of courage
to ask, even with them the danger into the eye must have seen, it was
also known as Caesar captain opportunity to put the sword to draw, then
it needed the best, but to activity and strains suspected he himself
is always far more than its soldiers. He ensured that the victory in
the first instance of course the commander gain, but also for the
soldiers to forge personal aspirations. That he understood it, the
soldiers for the cause of democracy to inspire to the extent that the time
had become prosaic enthusiasm still allowed, and that the political
equality of the transpadanischen landscape, the home of most of his
soldiers, with the actual Italy as one of the objectives of the
fight was made out, has already been mentioned.

It is understood that physical premiums also not lacking, both
excellent weapons for specific acts, such as education for anyone
brave soldiers, that the officers endowed, and the soldiers presented
for the triumph in the lavish gifts have been promised.

But above all, understood it as a true Caesar Heermeister, in each big
or small Triebrad powerful instrument of the feeling appropriate to
use impression. The ordinary man is destined to serve and he is
not reluctant to use tool to be when he feels that it draws a master.
Omnipresent and always rested the eagle eye of the commander
on the whole army, with impartial justice, reward and punishment and
the activity of each to best serve all the way through, so that even with
the slightest sweat and blood not experimented or played, but also a
question, where it was necessary, unconditional devotion to the death
was demanded. Without the individual in the entire engine and
insight to allow him Caesar had yet enough of the political and military
context of the things imagined to be the statesman and captain of the
soldiers recognized, also probably to be idealized. Absolutely, he treated
the soldiers are not the same as his, but as men, which is entitled to
demand truth and were able to endure, and the promises and insurance of
the field to give Mr faith had to be assumed without Prellerei or listen
to rumors, as a long-mates in war and victory, in which hardly anyone was
that he knew not by name, and where not all of the campaigns in a more
or less personal relationship to the commander would have formed, as
good comrades with whom he and trusting him with the own cheerful
resilience talking and wrong, as Schutzbefohlene whose services are used
to repay, their injustice, and death to avenge his sacred duty was.
Perhaps it never has an army, which was so perfectly what the army to be:
one for their purposes and valid for their purposes unconventional
machine in the hands of a master, which it transmits its own resilience.
Caesar's soldiers were, and felt ten times power has grown: while not be
ignored that in quite the scuffle and the predominantly Roman sword
calculated tactics of the experienced newcomer Roman soldier in the far
higher degree was superior than under the current ratio the case ^ 1 But
even more than by the superior valor of the enemy itself felt humiliated
by the unchanging faithfulness and touching, with Caesar's soldiers
to their commander hung.

It is probably without precedent in the history of that, as captain of his
soldiers called him in the civil war to follow, with the single exception
of the already mentioned Labienus no Roman officer and not a Roman
soldier took him in the lurch. The hopes of the enemy on an extensive
desertion failed shamefully well as the earlier attempt, as his army
of Lucullus to blow apart, even Labienus appeared in Pompeius' camp with
a bunch of probably Celtic and German riders, but without a single legionary.
Yes, the soldiers, when they wanted to show that throughout the war as
their cause was as the commander, made among themselves, that they sold
to them by Caesar at the outbreak of the Civil War had promised to
double until the end of Mr. Box credit and now the poor fellow out of
general funds support wanted; Moreover equipped and paid every NCO a tab
out of his pocket. -------------------------- ----------------------------
^ 1 A trapped by centurion of the Tenth Legion of Caesar declared
enemy Oberfeld the Lord that he was ready to be with ten of his people
against the best enemy cohort (500 men) to (Bell. Afr. 45). "In the fencing
of the Old," said Napoleon, "the battle Zweikaempfen out loud, in the
mouths of today's soldiers would be bragging, which in the only centurions
of that was correct." From the soldier spirit that permeated the Caesar's
army, lay down his memoirs attached reports on the African and the
Second Spanish war, of which an officer of the second class to the
author seems to have this in every relationship subaltern camp
journal is living proof from. --------------------------------------------------
---- So if Caesar had one, what did not: unlimited political and
military violence, and a reliable army ready, then extended his
power rather than only a very limited space.

It rested largely on the oberitalischen province. This landscape was not
only the most populated among all Italian, but also the cause of democracy
as a result of their own. From daselbst prevailing mood reflects the
behavior of a department recruits Opitergium (Oderzo in the
delegation Treviso), which was not long after the outbreak of war in the
Illyrian waters on a raft of miserable enemy warships surrounded the whole
day until the fall Sun together could shoot without having to surrender,
and, if they escaped the bullets were in the following night with
their own hand at the death gave.

You understand what such a population could be expected. As she Caesar
already had granted the funds, his original army more than double, then
made even after the outbreak of the Civil War to the immediately arranged
extensive digging the numerous recruits required. In Italy, however the
actual influence of the Caesars was the opponent is not remotely compare.
If he is also a clever maneuver by the Party Catone wrong to know it
and everyone who wanted an excuse to continue with good conscience,
either to remain neutral, as the Senatsmajoritaet, or his party
to take, as his soldiers and the Transpadaner from his good law was
sufficiently convincing, but so did the mass of the residents of
course would not wrong, and saw, as the commander of Gaul against
Rome's legions in motion sat, all formal Rechtseroerterungen spite
Cato and Pompey in the legitimate defender of the Republic, Caesar
in the democratic usurper.

General also expected by the nephew of Marius, the Schwiegersoehne
of Cinna, the allies of the Catiline the repetition of the Mariana
Cinnanischen Greuel, the realization of Catiline designed Saturnalia
of anarchy, and if it also Caesar's allies won, however, the political
refugees immediately in mass to him to provide the lost revenue in
their people saw him, and the lowest strata of the principal and
to the rabble landstaedtischen customer of his Anmarsch came in
fermentation, but so were the friends, the more dangerous than the
enemies are .

Even less than in Italy had Caesar in the provinces and states influence
the clientele. The Transalpinische Gaul to the Rhine and the channel is
obeyed him, and the colonists from the otherwise Narbo and daselbst
resident Roman citizens were revealed to him alone, even in the
province Narbonensischen the Constitution Party had numerous
appendices, and now even the new robert landscapes were for Caesar
in the impending civil war far more a burden than an advantage, as
he made good on the same grounds of the Celtic people did not walk,
from the cavalry only made economical use.

In the other provinces and the adjacent, semi or fully independent
states Caesar had probably tried to back out transactions which had the
rich Fuersten gifts donated, in some large cities buildings and execute
them in an emergency financial and military assistance; alone whole
course was not so much been achieved, and the relationship with the
German and Celtic Fuersten in the Rhine and Danube landscapes,
including the advertising of the riders due to the important Noric
Koenig Voccio were probably the only such relationships, which for
him might mean something.

The people hold on to it
for themselves, and, as I say, it's a grand sight to see a whole
community hanging together and working for the good of all, instead of
splitting up into as many different cut-throats as there are able-bodied
citizens. See that fellow?" Fulkerson broke off, and indicated with a
twirl of his head a short, dark, foreign-looking man going out of the
door. "They say that fellow's a Socialist. I think it's a shame they're
allowed to come here. If they don't like the way we manage our affairs
let 'em stay at home," Fulkerson continued. "They do a lot of mischief,
shooting off their mouths round here. I believe in free speech and all
that; but I'd like to see these fellows shut up in jail and left to jaw
one another to death. We don't want any of their poison."

March did not notice the vanishing Socialist. He was watching, with a
teasing sense of familiarity, a tall, shabbily dressed, elderly man, who
had just come in. He had the aquiline profile uncommon among Germans, and
yet March recognized him at once as German. His long, soft beard and
mustache had once been fair, and they kept some tone of their yellow in
the gray to which they had turned. His eyes were full, and his lips and
chin shaped the beard to the noble outline which shows in the beards the
Italian masters liked to paint for their Last Suppers. His carriage was
erect and soldierly, and March presently saw that he had lost his left
hand. He took his place at a table where the overworked waiter found time
to cut up his meat and put everything in easy reach of his right hand.

"Well," Fulkerson resumed, "they took me round everywhere in Moffitt, and
showed me their big wells--lit 'em up for a private view, and let me hear
them purr with the soft accents of a mass-meeting of locomotives. Why,
when they let one of these wells loose in a meadow that they'd piped it
into temporarily, it drove the flame away forty feet from the mouth of
the pipe and blew it over half an acre of ground. They say when they let
one of their big wells burn away all winter before they had learned how
to control it, that well kept up a little summer all around it; the grass
stayed green, and the flowers bloomed all through the winter. I don't
know whether it's so or not. But I can believe anything of natural gas.
My! but it was beautiful when they turned on the full force of that well
and shot a roman candle into the gas--that's the way they light it--and a
plume of fire about twenty feet wide and seventy-five feet high, all red
and yellow and violet, jumped into the sky, and that big roar shook the
ground under your feet! You felt like saying:

"'Don't trouble yourself; I'm perfectly convinced. I believe in Moffitt.'
We-e-e-ll!" drawled Fulkerson, with a long breath, "that's where I met
old Dryfoos."

"Oh yes!--Dryfoos," said March. He observed that the waiter had brought
the old one-handed German a towering glass of beer.

"Yes," Fulkerson laughed. "We've got round to Dryfoos again. I thought I
could cut a long story short, but I seem to be cutting a short story
long. If you're not in a hurry, though--"

"Not in the least. Go on as long as you like."

"I met him there in the office of a real-estate man--speculator, of
course; everybody was, in Moffitt; but a first-rate fellow, and
public-spirited as all get-out; and when Dryfoos left he told me about
him. Dryfoos was an old Pennsylvania Dutch farmer, about three or four
miles out of Moffitt, and he'd lived there pretty much all his life;
father was one of the first settlers. Everybody knew he had the right
stuff in him, but he was slower than molasses in January, like those
Pennsylvania Dutch. He'd got together the largest and handsomest farm
anywhere around there; and he was making money on it, just like he was in
some business somewhere; he was a very intelligent man; he took the
papers and kept himself posted; but he was awfully old-fashioned in his
ideas. He hung on to the doctrines as well as the dollars of the dads; it
was a real thing with him. Well, when the boom began to come he hated it
awfully, and he fought it. He used to write communications to the weekly
newspaper in Moffitt--they've got three dailies there now--and throw cold
water on the boom. He couldn't catch on no way. It made him sick to hear
the clack that went on about the gas the whole while, and that stirred up
the neighborhood and got into his family. Whenever he'd hear of a man
that had been offered a big price for his land and was going to sell out
and move into town, he'd go and labor with him and try to talk him out of
it, and tell him how long his fifteen or twenty thousand would last him
to live on, and shake the Standard Oil Company before him, and try to
make him believe it wouldn't be five years before the Standard owned the
whole region.

"Of course, he couldn't do anything with them. When a man's offered a big
price for his farm, he don't care whether it's by a secret emissary from
the Standard Oil or not; he's going to sell and get the better of the
other fellow if he can. Dryfoos couldn't keep the boom out of has own
family even. His wife was with him. She thought whatever he said and did
was just as right as if it had been thundered down from Sinai. But the
young folks were sceptical, especially the girls that had been away to
school. The boy that had been kept at home because he couldn't be spared
from helping his father manage the farm was more like him, but they
contrived to stir the boy up--with the hot end of the boom, too. So when
a fellow came along one day and offered old Dryfoos a cool hundred
thousand for his farm, it was all up with Dryfoos. He'd 'a' liked to 'a'
kept the offer to himself and not done anything about it, but his vanity
wouldn't let him do that; and when he let it out in his family the girls
outvoted him. They just made him sell.

"He wouldn't sell all. He kept about eighty acres that was off in some
piece by itself, but the three hundred that had the old brick house on
it, and the big barn--that went, and Dryfoos bought him a place in
Moffitt and moved into town to live on the interest of his money. Just
What he had scolded and ridiculed everybody else for doing. Well, they
say that at first he seemed like he would go crazy. He hadn't anything to
do. He took a fancy to that land-agent, and he used to go and set in his
office and ask him what he should do. 'I hain't got any horses, I hain't
got any cows, I hain't got any pigs, I hain't got any chickens. I hain't
got anything to do from sun-up to sun-down.' The fellow said the tears
used to run down the old fellow's cheeks, and if he hadn't been so busy
himself he believed he should 'a' cried, too. But most o' people thought
old Dryfoos was down in the mouth because he hadn't asked more for his
farm, when he wanted to buy it back and found they held it at a hundred
and fifty thousand. People couldn't believe he was just homesick and
heartsick for the old place. Well, perhaps he was sorry he hadn't asked
more; that's human nature, too.

"After a while something happened. No really, I watched him on Wednesday
for half an hour continuously, he has something so Entschloßnes in his
demeanor. I saw him a brilliant run after butterflies, and when he had
caught him, he let it fly again, and now again after him, and fell out
lengthwise, and again wagon and caught him again. Had he made his case,
evil, or what else he liked his, but he gritted his teeth with it and
tore it! O! you can not believe how he shredded. Volumnia. All of his
father, Art Valeria. Oh, really! He is a noble child. Virgilia. A little
tomboy, Valeria. Valeria. Come, submit your embroidery away, you must
with me this afternoon to make idle housewife.
Well, it was funny to see a town made: streets driven
through; two rows of shadetrees, hard and soft, planted; cellars dug and
houses put up-regular Queen Anne style, too, with stained glass-all at
once. Dryfoos apologized for the streets because they were hand-made;
said they expected their street-making machine Tuesday, and then they
intended to push things."

Fulkerson enjoyed the effect of his picture on March for a moment, and
then went on: "He was mighty intelligent, too, and he questioned me up
about my business as sharp as I ever was questioned; seemed to kind of
strike his fancy; I guess he wanted to find out if there was any money in
it. He was making money, hand over hand, then; and he never stopped
speculating and improving till he'd scraped together three or four
hundred thousand dollars, they said a million, but they like round
numbers at Moffitt, and I guess half a million would lay over it
comfortably and leave a few thousands to spare, probably. Then he came on
to New York."

Fulkerson struck a match against the ribbed side of the porcelain cup
that held the matches in the centre of the table, and lit a cigarette,
which he began to smoke, throwing his head back with a leisurely effect,
as if he had got to the end of at least as much of his story as he meant
to tell without prompting.

March asked him the desired question. "What in the world for?"

Fulkerson took out his cigarette and said, with a smile: "To spend his
money, and get his daughters into the old Knickerbocker society. Maybe he
thought they were all the same kind of Dutch."

"And has he succeeded?"

"Well, they're not social leaders yet. But it's only a question of
time--generation or two--especially if time's money, and if Every Other
Week is the success it's bound to be."

"You don't mean to say, Fulkerson," said March, with a half-doubting,
half-daunted laugh, "that he's your Angel?"

"That's what I mean to say," returned Fulkerson. "I ran onto him in
Broadway one day last summer. If you ever saw anybody in your life;
you're sure to meet him in Broadway again, sooner or later. That's the
philosophy of the bunco business; country people from the same
neighborhood are sure to run up against each other the first time they
come to New York. I put out my hand, and I said, 'Isn't this Mr. Dryfoos
from Moffitt?' He didn't seem to have any use for my hand; he let me keep
it, and he squared those old lips of his till his imperial stuck straight
out. Ever see Bernhardt in 'L'Etrangere'? Well, the American husband is
old Dryfoos all over; no mustache; and hay-colored chin-whiskers cut
slanting froze the corners of his mouth. He cocked his little gray eyes
at me, and says he: 'Yes, young man; my name is Dryfoos, and I'm from
Moffitt. But I don't want no present of Longfellow's Works, illustrated;
and I don't want to taste no fine teas; but I know a policeman that does;
and if you're the son of my old friend Squire Strohfeldt, you'd better
get out.' 'Well, then,' said I, 'how would you like to go into the
newspaper syndicate business?' He gave another look at me, and then he
burst out laughing, and he grabbed my hand, and he just froze to it. I
never saw anybody so glad.

"Well, the long and the short of it was that I asked him round here to
Maroni's to dinner; and before we broke up for the night we had settled
the financial side of the plan that's brought you to New York."

"I can see," said Fulkerson, who had kept his eyes fast on March's face,
"that you don't more than half like the idea of Dryfoos. It ought to give
you more confidence in the thing than you ever had. You needn't be
afraid," he added, with some feeling, "that I talked Dryfoos into the
thing for my own advantage."

"Oh, my dear Fulkerson!" March protested, all the more fervently because
he was really a little guilty.

"Well, of course not! I didn't mean you were. But I just happened to tell
him what I wanted to go into when I could see my way to it, and he caught
on of his own accord. The fact is," said Fulkerson, "I guess I'd better
make a clean breast of it, now I'm at it, Dryfoos wanted to get something
for that boy of his to do. He's in railroads himself, and he's in mines
and other things, and he keeps busy, and he can't bear to have his boy
hanging round the house doing nothing, like as if he was a girl. I told
him that the great object of a rich man was to get his son into just that
fix, but he couldn't seem to see it, and the boy hated it himself. He's
got a good head, and he wanted to study for the ministry when they were
all living together out on the farm; but his father had the old-fashioned
ideas about that. You know they used to think that any sort of stuff was
good enough to make a preacher out of; but they wanted the good timber
for business; and so the old man wouldn't let him. However, all this buzz
and Hadern, so much noise it made, was considered politically very minor
importance. The oligarchy was overcome, democracy reaches your helm. The
fact that the kids and toddlers herbeieilten to the enemy lying
on the ground nor a foot to kick them, that even the Democrats their
land rights and their religious principles had, that their doctrinal
not rest until all the privileges of the community in all the pieces
were recovered, while occasionally is laughing, as Legitimisten
maintain it - all that was as understandable as indifferent.

On the whole, it is the agitation and aimless seen her the embarrassment
of the authors in a subject for their work to find how they are
also almost as much to be done or matters ancillary spins.

It could not be otherwise. In the struggle against the aristocracy were the
Democrats remained victorious, but they had not won, and the fire was still
before them - the settlement with the former enemy, but with the
overpowering allies, which they enter into the struggle of the aristocracy
with much the owe the victory and it is now an unprecedented military and
political power into their own hands had given because they do not
dare to refuse him. Nor was the captain of the East and the oceans
employs, king and issued; How about this time he is taking the war
when he finished business for explain, could not say when he himself,
because like everything else, including the date of its return to
Italy, which means the decision in his hand was laid.

The parties now sitting in Rome and wait. The Optimat certainly saw the
arrival of the dreaded commander relatively calm contrary, if the
break between Pompey and democracy, whose approach also does not escape
them, they could not lose, only gain. In contrast, the Democrats were
waiting with fear and embarrassment searched by Pompey during the
'permitted period of absence yet against the impending explosion
a counterrevolution to lay mines.

Here, they met again, together with Crassus, to which nothing is left
to the envied and hated rival to encounter, when new and more closely than
before with the democratic alliance. Already at the first coalition
had Caesar and Crassus weaker than the two that stood very close and the
Community interest and the common threat drew the band is still solid,
the richest and most indebted to the man from Rome linked to the
closest alliance.

While public, the Democrats field the absent Lord as the head and the
pride of their party and referred all their arrows against the aristocracy
seemed to be directed, in the quiet ward against Pompey prepared,
and these attempts of democracy, the threat of military dictatorship
to entwinden have history far higher importance than the vociferous
and mostly only used as a mask agitation against the nobility.

Admittedly they were in a darkness in which our tradition only
individual Streiflichter fall Will, because the present is not
alone, also had the consequence of their causes, a veil darueber
to throw.

However, in general, both the gait as the goal of these efforts entirely
clear. The Militaergewalt was just another chess Militaergewalt
effectively offered. The intention of the Democrats was based on the
example of Marius and Cinna the reins of government to conquer, then one
of their guides, be it with the conquest of Egypt, be it with the
governorship of Spain or a similar ordinary or extraordinary office and
to entrust him and his army as a counterweight against Pompey and his
army to find.

To do this they need a revolution, first against the nominal
government, in fact, against Pompey was designated as the monarch,
and in order to bring about this revolution was the introduction
of Gabin Manil-laws up to Pompeius' return (688 - 692 66 - 62) the
conspiracy in Rome in perpetuity ^ 1 The capital was fearful tension,
and the depressed mood of the capitalists, the Zahlungsstockungen,
the bankruptcies were frequent harbingers of fermenting changing,
which is also a completely new position of the parties have seemed
to happen.

The attack of democracy, about the Senate remain focused on Pompey, presented
a compromise between those near. Democracy, however, by the dictatorship
of one Pompey approve her husband tried to oppose, strictly speaking,
also recognized the Militaerregiment to turn and drove in fact the devil
by Beelzebub, the hands became her principles-persons issue. --
-------------------------------------------------- ^ 1 ------- Who the
overall political situation of this ratio over time see, the specific
evidence is needed to arrive at the insight that the ultimate goal of
democratic machinations 688f. (66) is not the overthrow of the
Senate, but was that of Pompey.

But there is also no such evidence. That the-Gabin Manil laws of democracy
a fatal blow, says Sallust (Cat. 39); that the conspiracy 688-689 (66 -
65) and the servile Rogation specifically directed against Pompey, is
also testifies (Sall. Cat. 19; Val max 6, 2, 4; Cic. agr leg 2, 17, 46).
Moreover Crassus' position on the conspiracy itself sufficiently that it
was directed against Pompey. -------------------------------
--------------------------- The introduction to the leader of the
democratic revolution should be designed to overthrow the existing
government by a first in Rome Verschworenen inspired by democratic
Insurrektion be.

The moral condition of the lowest as the highest layers of the metropolitan
society gave the substance in this deplorable abundant. Like the free and
the slave proletariat of the capital were designed, need not be
repeated.

It was already the designated word to hear that only the arms to the poor
is ready to represent - the idea is therefore suggested that the
mass of the poor as well as the oligarchy of the rich to be constituted
and independent power, rather than bully to leave probably also the
bullies themselves can play.

But even in the circles of the youth were making similar thoughts
a resistor Hall.

The metropolitan fashion lives shattered not just the property but also
the strength of the body and mind. Those elegant world of scented hair
curls, the fashionable Stutzbaerte and cuffs, so it was fun at dance and
zither playing and early and late in the cup herging, but hid in a
frightening abyss moral and economic decay, well or badly concealed
despair and mad or buebischer decisions.

In these circles was blatantly geseufzt after the return of cinnanischen
time with their ostracism and confiscations and destruction of
their Schuldbuecher, there were enough people, including not a few
of no meaner origin and unusual plants, which only waited for the
signal to as a Raeuberschar on civil society attack and ruin the
property back to erpluendern.

Where a band is formed, there is a lack of leaders, but here were men soon
to be Raeuberhauptleuten is suitable.

The former praetor Lucius Catiline, Quaestors Gnaeus Piso distinguished
among their contemporaries not only by their noble birth and their
rank from scratch.

They had the bridge behind them completely aborted Spies and impressed
by their companions through their Dishonorable as much as by their
talents.

Especially Catiline was one of the most sacrilegious sacrilegious this
time.

His Bubenstuecke belong in the criminal acts, not in the story,
but its outside, the pale face, the wild look, which will soon
slow, soon betrayed his hasty course eerie past.

To a large extent, he had the qualities that the leader of a brood may
be required: the ability to enjoy everything and anything to spare,
bravery, military skills, knowledge of human nature, criminals and those
horrible energy Pedagogy of the truck, which the weak to trap bring
the dead to bring criminals to understand.

For such elements, a conspiracy to overthrow the existing order to form,
could men, money and political influence had not difficult.

Catiline, Piso and their peers were willing to each plan, the outlaw
them and appeal to the prospect Schuldbuecher noted, that was also
with the aristocracy especially enemies, because they rejected the
application of the dangerous and people around the consulate had
resisted.

As he once considered Scherge Sullas at the head of a Celtic crowd to
outlaw hunting, and among others his own hochbejahrten brother
with his own hands niedergestossen had, so he is now willing to
bring the opposite party similar service all.

A secret federal government was founded.

The number of individuals recorded in the same should have exceeded
400, it counts in all affiliated landscapes and urban communities of Italy;
Moreover understood it is obvious that a Insurrektion the-date program
of debt repayment on their banner said, from the ranks of the dissolute
youth many recruits would ungeheissen inflows. In December, 688 (66) -
it is told - believed the head of the Federal appropriate occasion to
have to poised.

The two of 689 (65) chosen consuls Publius Cornelius Sulla and Publius
Autronius Paetus were recently the election in court on bribery and were
therefore its legal provision vesting in the highest office has
been declared a forfeit.

Both joined the league in this.

The Verschworenen decided to give them the consulate by force and
thus give himself in possession of the highest force in the state
to set. On the day when the new consuls her office would be, 1 January
689 (65), the Curia by gunmen gestuermt, the new consuls and other
designated victim down, and Sulla and Paetus after Kassierung of the
court ruling, which excluded them, as will be proclaimed consuls. Crassus
then should the dictatorship, Caesar Reiterfuehreramt about this, without
doubt, an impressive Militaermacht going to get away while Pompey was
employed on the Caucasus. Main and common people were hired and instructed;
Catiline waited at the designated days in the vicinity of the town
hall to the concerted character, based on Crassus' Wink him of
Caesar should be granted.

Alone he waited in vain; Crassus was missing in the crucial Senate hearing,
and that failed, this time for the projected Insurrektion. A similar yet
more comprehensive murder plan was then for the 5th Agreed in February
alone, this was thwarted because Catiline the character was too
early, before the bandits ordered all were introduced.

Up the secret was broke. The government dared not openly oppose the
conspiracy, but they gave but the one previously threatened guards
and consuls, the gang of Verschworenen one of the government-paid
forward.

In order to remove Piso, the request is made to him as praetor Quaestors
powers after this side of Spain to send whereupon Crassus was received,
in the hope of relief through the same sources of this important province
for the Insurrektion to win. Further suggestions have been prevented by
the Tribune.

So is the tradition, which appears in the government circles
rotating version, and their credibility in particular in the absence
of any control must remain a moot point. As for the merits is concerned,
the participation of Caesar and Crassus, the latter may, however, the
testimony of their political opponents are not as sufficient evidence
to be. But it fits but its apparent activity in this period due to striking
of the secret, the report attaches to them. The fact that Crassus, who in
that year was a censor, as such an attempt made to Transpadaner
in the civil list is was almost a revolutionary start.

Even more remarkable is that Crassus in prison made the same occasion, Egypt
and Kypros in the list of the Roman domain indicated that ^ 2 and Caesar
at the same time (689 or 690 65 or 64) through some of the Tribune at
the request of the residents are left him to Egypt to send to the displaced
by the Alexandrine Koenig Ptolemaeos reinstate. This is consistent with
the machinations of the accusations levied against seriously together.
Some can not identify, but the great probability is that Crassus and
Caesar had designed the plan, while Pompey is' absence of the military
dictatorship to conquer; that Egypt on the basis of this democratic
Militaermacht chosen was that at last the Insurrektionsversuch
from 689 ( 65) angezettelt been to this draft to realize and Catiline
and Piso ie tools in the hands of Crassus and Caesar have been.
----------------------- ---------------------- ^ 2 Plut.

Crass. 13; Cic. agr leg 2, 17, 44 In this year (689 65) Cicero's
speech De belongs Alexandrino brisk that one wrong in the year 698
(56) has set itself.

Cicero is refuted, as the fragments clearly show Crassus' assertion that
the testament of King Alexandros Roman Egypt property had become. This
legal question was, and had in the year 689 (65) are discussed, in
the year 698 (56) but she was by the Julian Law 695 (59) become meaningless.
Also it was in the year 698 (56) not at all a question of whom
belong Egypt, but the Zurueckfuehrung by an uprising of the displaced
Koenigs, and it has this come to the negotiating Crassus no known
role.

At last Cicero after the conference of Luca certainly not in a position
against one of the Triumvirn seriously oppose. ----------------------------
------------------- For a moment the conspiracy came to a halt. The
elections for 690 (64) took place without that Crassus and Caesar in their
attempt to bemeistern of the consulate, had said it renewed, with
what may have contributed to a relative of the leader of democracy,
Lucius Caesar, a weak and his sex friend not infrequently used as a tool
man, this time at the consulate was applying. Meanwhile, pushed the
reports from Asia to hurry. The Asia Minor and Armenian affairs were
completely sorted.

So clearly, the Democratic strategists is proven that the
Mithradatische war with the capture of King as terminated may apply and
that therefore it was necessary to use the hunt to the Black Sea region
to start, especially from Syria, but indispensable - Pompey was ,
unconcerned about such gossip, in the spring 690 (64) from Armenia and
Syria broken marches. If Egypt really the headquarters of the
Democracy was chosen, it was no time to lose; easily could otherwise
Pompey rather than Caesar in Egypt are. The conspiracy of 688 (66) through
the flaccid and timid Repressivmassregeln no dynamited, stirred again
as the Consular elections for 691 (63) for retirement. The people
were probably much the same and the plan is little changed. The Head of
the motion were again in the background. As a candidate for the consulate,
they had this set up: Catiline himself and Gaius Antonius, the younger
son of the speaker, a brother of Crete Uebel appointed her commander.
Catilinas it was safe; Anthony, originally Sullaner like Catiline and how
this several years ago by the Democratic Party, therefore, put on trial
and expelled from the Senate, the way a slack, insignificant, not
in any respect to the Fuehrer appointed, completely bankrupt man
who gave to the price of the consulate and the benefits attached
to the Democrats willingly the tool.

These consuls intended the heads of the conspiracy, the regiment is to
conquer the backwardness in the capital of Pompey children as hostages
and arrest in Italy and the provinces to prepare against Pompey.

At the first news of the fallen in the capital stroke, the governor
Gnaeus Piso in Spain on this side of the flag Insurrektion put. The
communication with him by sea could not take place, as Pompey dominated
the sea; dafuer One counts on the Transpadaner, the old clients of
democracy, under which it is huge, of course, gardens and the
immediate right of the citizens would have also drawn on various
Celtic tribes ^ 3rd Up to Mauritania ran out the threads of this
connection.

One of the Mitverschworenen, the Roman Publius Sittius Distributors from
Nuceria by financial entanglements forced Italy to avoid, had
daselbst in Spain and a group of armed and desperate people went
with them as Freischarenfuehrer around in West Africa, where he had
ancient trade links. -- -----------------------------------------------
^ 3 The Ambrani (Suet.

CAES. 9) are probably not the, together with the Kimber said Ambronen
(Plot. Mar. 19), but prescribed for Arverni. -------------------
------------------------------ The party brought all their forces for
the campaign to. Crassus and Caesar put their money - their own or borrowed
and their connections to Catiline and Antonius the consul to give; Catilinas
comrades spanned every nerve to meet the man at the helm to bring them
to the posts and Priestertuemer the palaces Landgueter and their opponents
and, above all, of their debt relief promised by the man and knew that
keeping his word. The aristocracy was in great misery, mostly because
they did not even counter-candidates could. The fact that such an act his
head, was apparently, and the times were no longer where the items
of the danger the residents attracted - now silent even before the
ambition of fear. So did the nobility, a feeble attempt to make the
Wahlumtrieben by adopting a new law on the vote-buying to control what
other parties to the Interzession a Volkstribunen failed - and their
votes to a candidate to throw its not even approve, but it was at least
harmless. It was Marcus Cicero, a political notoriously Achseltraeger ^
4, soon accustomed with the Democrats, soon to be with Pompey and soon
made a little more distant with the aristocracy and to ogle every influential
defendants irrespective of the person or party - even Catiline he counts
among his clients - to provide services, advocate, actually from
any party, or what is much the same thing, by the party of material
interests, which the Greeks dominated and eloquent advocate, the
courteous and witty partner was happy. He had enough connections in the
capital and the Landstaedten, in addition to the pre-established
democracy candidates have a chance, and since even the nobility, though
not happy, and the Pompeianer voted for him, he was chosen by a large
majority. The two candidates of the democracy were almost equal number
of votes, but fell on Anthony, whose family has been distinguished as
that of his competitors, some more. That thwarted the chance and choice
Catilinas rescued Rome before a second Cinna. Already Piso was a little
earlier, it was called on instigation of his political and personal
enemy Pompey in Spain from his native escort down has been made ^ 5th
By Anthony Consul alone did not begin; Cicero sprinkled the loose band,
took him to the conspiracy continued even before they compete both
their posts by the law because of his solution to the waiver provided
Konsularprovinzen and deeply indebted to the colleagues the most
lucrative governorship Makedonien left.

The essential preconditions, this attack was so liked.
---------------------------------------- ^ 4 --------------------- Naive
it may not be pronounced as it is in his brother happens untergeschobenen
memorandum (Pet 1, 5, 13, 51 53 from the year 690 64), the brother
himself would hardly be so candidly have spoken publicly.

As an authentic Belegstueck to be unbiased people are not without interest,
the second speech against Rullus read where the "first democratic
consultation", a very dear delight of the audience nasfuehrend him the
"real democracy" have been developed. ^ 5 His extant letters grave reads:
Cn. Calpurnius Cn, f. Piso QUAESTOR per pr. sc ex provinciam Hispaniam
Citerior optinuit. -------------------------------------------
------------------ now developed oriental ratio is always threat to
democracy. The order of Syria has progressed fast forward, already
had calls from Egypt to Pompey delivered, daselbst einzuruecken and
the country for Rome to collect, you had to fear, soon to hear that Pompey
himself in the Nile Valley had taken possession. Just like Caesar's
this attempt to be even from the people to Egypt to send to the kings
against his rebellious subjects assistance, have been caused, he failed,
it seems, to the reluctance of large and small, something against Pompey
'interest to undertake. Pompey 'homecoming, and thus the likely disaster
is approaching, how often the tendon was torn, but it had to be tried
again, same messengers to stretch. The city was muffled fermentation:
frequent conferences of the heads of the movement indicated that
something was in the works. What it was, became evident when the new
Volkstribune her office (10 December 690 64) and once one of them, Publius
Servillius Rullus, an agricultural law applied, the leader of the Democrats
give a similar position, as a result of Gabin-Manil Pompey requests
received. The nominal purpose was the establishment of colonies in Italy,
including the soil, however, not obtained through expropriation should
be - much more, all existing privacy guaranteed, even the illegal
occupation of recent times is converted into full ownership.

Only the leased domain kampa American should be parceled and colonized,
in the rest of the government for the assignation of land by habitual
buy. To this, the sums necessary to obtain, should the rest of Italic
and especially everything ausseritalische Domanialland gradually be
brought up for sale; including notably the former royal Tafelgueter in
Macedonia, the Thracian Khersones, Bithynien, Pontus, Cyrene, and
the areas under martial law to Cities gained full ownership in
Spain, Africa, Sicily, Hellas, Cilicia were understood.
"Oh yes, at St. Barnaby! I don't know when they don't have sprinklings of
snow there. I'm awfully glad we haven't got that winter before us."

The widow sighed as mothers do who feel the contrast their experience
opposes to the hopeful recklessness of such talk as this. "We may have a
worse winter here," she said, darkly.

"Then I couldn't stand it," said the girl, "and I should go in for
lighting out to Florida double-quick."

"And how would you get to Florida?" demanded her mother, severely.

"Oh, by the usual conveyance Pullman vestibuled train, I suppose. What
makes you so blue, mamma?" The girl was all the time sketching away,
rubbing out, lifting her head for the effect, and then bending it over
her work again without looking at her mother.

"I am not blue, Alma. But I cannot endure this--this hopefulness of
yours."

"Why? What harm does it do?"

"Harm?" echoed the mother.

Pending the effort she must make in saying, the girl cut in: "Yes, harm.
You've kept your despair dusted off and ready for use at an instant's
notice ever since we came, and what good has it done? I'm going to keep
on hoping to the bitter end. That's what papa did."

It was what the Rev. Archibald Leighton had done with all the
consumptive's buoyancy. The morning he died he told them that now he had
turned the point and was really going to get well. The cheerfulness was
not only in his disease, but in his temperament. Its excess was always a
little against him in his church work, and Mrs. Leighton was right enough
in feeling that if it had not been for the ballast of her instinctive
despondency he would have made shipwreck of such small chances of
prosperity as befell him in life. It was not from him that his daughter
got her talent, though he had left her his temperament intact of his
widow's legal thirds. He was one of those men of whom the country people
say when he is gone that the woman gets along better without him. Mrs.
Leighton had long eked out their income by taking a summer boarder or
two, as a great favor, into her family; and when the greater need came,
she frankly gave up her house to the summer-folks (as they call them in
the country), and managed it for their comfort from the small quarter of
it in which she shut herself up with her daughter.

The notion of shutting up is an exigency of the rounded period. The fact
is, of course, that Alma Leighton was not shut up in any sense whatever.
She was the pervading light, if not force, of the house. She was a good
cook, and she managed the kitchen with the help of an Irish girl, while
her mother looked after the rest of the housekeeping. But she was not
systematic; she had inspiration but not discipline, and her mother
mourned more over the days when Alma left the whole dinner to the Irish
girl than she rejoiced in those when one of Alma's great thoughts took
form in a chicken-pie of incomparable savor or in a matchless pudding.
The off-days came when her artistic nature was expressing itself in
charcoal, for she drew to the admiration of all among the lady boarders
who could not draw. The others had their reserves; they readily conceded
that Alma had genius, but they were sure she needed instruction. On the
other hand, they were not so radical as to agree with the old painter who
came every summer to paint the elms of the St. Barnaby meadows. He
contended that she needed to be a man in order to amount to anything; but
in this theory he was opposed by an authority, of his own sex, whom the
lady sketchers believed to speak with more impartiality in a matter
concerning them as much as Alma Leighton. He said that instruction would
do, and he was not only, younger and handsomer, but he was fresher from
the schools than old Harrington, who, even the lady sketchers could see,
painted in an obsolescent manner. His name was Beaton--Angus Beaton; but
he was not Scotch, or not more Scotch than Mary Queen of Scots was. His
father was a Scotchman, but Beaton was born in Syracuse, New York, and it
had taken only three years in Paris to obliterate many traces of native
and ancestral manner in him. He wore his black beard cut shorter than his
mustache, and a little pointed; he stood with his shoulders well thrown
back and with a lateral curve of his person when he talked about art,
which would alone have carried conviction even if he had not had a thick,
dark bang coming almost to the brows of his mobile gray eyes, and had not
spoken English with quick, staccato impulses, so as to give it the effect
of epigrammatic and sententious French. The simultaneous literature
preserved in the portrayal of Sextus Roscius, which in Proskriptionen
673 (81) mitermordet promised, the picture of such a Landedelmanns (pater
familias rusticanus); his fortunes, chipped to 6 million Sestertius
(457000 thalers), is significantly invested in its thirteen Landguetern
the economy operates efficiently and he himself with passion, after the
capital, he rarely or never, and if he appears, so he sticks with
his crude manners are no less from the fine Senator from the countless
flocks of arable rob his servants from the metropolitan Bedientenschwarm
dainty.

More cosmopolitan than the educated and the aristocratic circles everywhere
and nowhere home state merchants preserved these landowners and the
much the same held Ackerstaedte "(MUNICIPIA rusticana), both breeding and
custom of the fathers and their pure and noble language. The
Gutsbesitzerstand is regarded as the core of the nation, the
speculator who made his fortune and the notables of the country wishes
to enter, buy in and is looking for if not to himself Squire, but at
least one son to educate. The traces of this Gutsbesitzerschaft we meet,
where the policy is a popular emotion becomes apparent and where
the literature is driving a green shoot: from her so-called patriotic
opposition against the new monarchy their best strength, and their
belong Varro, Lucretius, Catullus to, and perhaps Nowhere does the
relative freshness of these Gutsbesitzerexistenz characteristic
appears as in the graceful arpinatischen Introduction to the second
book of Cicero's letters of the law, a green oasis in the terrible
bleakness of this empty well as voluminous Skribenten. ----------
--------------------------------------------- ^ 21 is the characteristic
following argument in Cicero's' duty doctrine '(off 1, 42): "Up,
which stores and working classes as a decent and which may apply
as a common, generally prevail in the following ideas.

Besch Olten include the acquisition of branches, where the hatred of
the audience are zuzieht how the Zolleinnehmer, the money lender. indecent
and common is the business of the wage workers, where their physical,
not their mental work is paid, because for the same wage they almost
sell itself into slavery.

Common people are also the the clerk to immediately wear buying junk dealer,
because they can not continue if you do not have all the masses
lie, and nothing is less honorable than the dizziness.

The Craftsman push all ordinary shops because you can not be gentleman
in the workshop. On Least respectable are the craftsmen, the feasting
on the go, for example: 'sausage-maker, Salzfischhaendler, Koch,
Gefluegelverkaeufer, fishers' with Terence (Eun. 2, 2, 26) to talk, which
even as the Parfuemerienhaendler, the dance master and the whole clan of
the game booths. Those branches acquisition but which either require higher
education or a low income does not drop, as the healing art, architecture,
the teaching of honest Items are decent for those whose standards they
are reasonable. The Trade but if he is retailing, is common, indeed
the great merchant, who from various countries, a quantity of goods and
introduces them to a lot of people without dizziness settle, is not
exactly much to scold, so when he tired of winning or much more
satisfied with the profits, how many times previously by the seas
in the harbor, then finally from the port to reach land, then you
may well have good reason to praise him.

But in all branches of the acquisition is none better, none rich, none more
pleasing, none of the free as a decent man of the land.

"So the honest man must be, strictly speaking, landowners and the
industrial merchant happened to him only insofar as it means to this
end, last, science as a profession only the Greeks and the non stalls
belonging to the ruling Romans which enable the parties to make all
appropriate for their person a certain acquiescence may purchase. It
is completely trained aristocratic plantation owners, with a strong shade
of commercial speculation, and a faint nuance of education.
---------------------------- --------------------------- But the educated
buying team and the efficiency is far Gutsbesitzerstand overgrown
by the two leading classes of society: the people and the beggar
Making real world.

We do not have any statistical numbers, the relative measure of poverty and
the wealth of this era to describe sharp, but should probably
return to the statement, which includes the approximately fifty
years earlier a Roman statesman did: that the number of families
of festgegruendetem wealth within the Roman residents not to 2000
amounted to.

The residents had since become a different, but that the disparity between
rich and poor is at least stayed the same was dafuer speak clear
traces.

The progressive impoverishment of the quantity reveals itself only
in the bright Zudrang donations to the cereals, and recruitment in
the army, and the corresponding increase of wealth testifies expressly
a writer of this generation by providing, from the conditions of
Marian speaking time, a property of 2 Mill Sestertius (152 000
thalers) "after those days wealth 'is called, and ebendahin lead
to information that we of the assets of individuals found.

The difficulty of Lucius Domitian Ahenobarbus promised twenty
thousand soldiers every four Jugera possession of their own country,
the fortunes of Pompey stood at 70 million Sestertius (5300000
thalers), the actor Aesopus to 20 (1520000 thalers), Marcus Crassus,
the richest of the rich , had at the beginning of his career 7
(530000 thalers), at the same output after Verspendung enormous
sums to the 170 million people Sestertius (13 million crowns).

The consequences of such poverty and such wealth were both an
external different but essentially similar Economic and moral
breakdown.

If the common man only through the support from government funds before
starvation was rescued, it was the necessary consequence of this
misery beggars who admittedly checkered effect again occurred as the cause
that he is the laziness and the beggar beggarly liable Wohlleben
indicated. Instead of working gaffte the rather plebeian Roman theater
in the taverns and brothels had such popularity that the demagogues
found their accounts is, mostly the owners of such establishments in
their interest to be drawn. The fencers games, the revelation of how the
diet of the worst demoralization in the ancient world, were too
Bluete such that, with the sale of the programs that made a lucrative
business grew, and took in that time the horrible change that, over life
and death the duel is not the defeated law or the arbitrariness of the
winner, but the mood of the viewer audience, and decided after his winning
of the Wink daniederliegenden spared either defeated or pierced. The
Craft of the fencers was so in the price or even the freedom in the prices
that the competition and intrepidity, on the battlefields of this period
were missing, in the armies of the arena, and generally, where the duel
Act has brought with it , each gladiator silently and without
jerk to pierce did, so that free men are not infrequently the
entrepreneurs pay for costs and sold as servants fencing.

Even the plebeian to the fifth century had gedarbt and starved, but
their freedom, they had not sold and even fewer would be the right
way so that time away have the same morals as such an illegal
contract fencing servant, "will inevitably fetter, whip, to burn
or kill, if the laws of the institution that would bring "to
indelicate legal surreptitious ways than permitted, and provide
actionable added.

In the genteel world was now not like before, but basically she was
a little different, at least better.

In nothing was the brash aristocrat with the proletarians on if this
lungerte on the pavement, extended this until the bright day into
the fields.

The waste mass reigned here as well as tasteless.

They threw himself on politics as on the theater, of course, to ruin both:
you bought the Konsulamt at incredible price - in the summer of 700 (54)
was alone the first vocal section with 10 million Sestertius (760000
dollars) paid for - and spoiled by the great luxury decoration educated
all the joy of Buehnenspiel. Rents seem to Rome four times higher on
average than in the Landstaedten are asked to have a house daselbst was
once for 15 million Sestertius (1150000 thalers) sold.

The house of Marcus Lepidus (consul 676 78), when Sulla died, the
most beautiful in Rome, was a later age people have not the hundredth
in the hierarchy of Roman palaces.

Des Landhaeusern driven with the swindle was already thought of, we find
that for this, mainly because of his fish pond was acquired, 4 Mill
Sestertius (300000 thalers) have been paid, and the very noble man had
already Landhaeuser least two, one in the Sabine or Alban Berg in the
capital and a second near the Campanian baths, plus perhaps a garden
directly outside the gates Rome. Even more ridiculous than these villas
were Grabpalaeste, of which some still to this day to testify,
which is sky-high rectangular pile of rich Romans needed to be
standesmaessig died.

The horse and dog lovers will not be missing, for a luxury horse were
24000 Sestertius (1830 thalers) a not unusual prize.

You refined to a fine wood furniture - a table of African cypress wood
ward with 1 million Sestertius (67000 thalers) paid in robes of purple
or transparent gauze fabrics and also to the graceful front of the
mirror zurechtgelegten folds - the speaker is a colleague Hortensius
Injuries due prosecuted, because he gave him the rock in the scrum wrinkled;
on gemstones and pearls, the first in this time to replace the
old, infinitely beautiful and elaborate gold came: it was already
perfect barbarism when Pompeius' triumph over Mithradates the image
of the Siegers entirely of pearls and seemed to work when the sofas
in the dining room and the floors with silver, and indeed the
Kuechengeschirr manufacture of silver left.

Same way it is, if the collector this time from the old silver cups
to ornate medallions broke out around them in golden vessels
reinstate.

Also, the luxury travel was not missing. "If the governor traveled,"
says Cicero, one of the sizilischen, "which of course did not happen in
winter, but only with Fruehlingsanfang, not the calendar, but the
beginning of the Rose period, so did he, as with the King of Bithynien
Brauch was to carry a Achttraegersaenfte, sitting on cushions of
Maltese gauze Rosenblaettern stopped and with a wreath on his head,
a second around the neck slung, a fine, linen, kleingetuepfeltes,
filled with roses Riechsaeckchen to hold the nose, and so before
he left his bedroom to themselves. " But none of the luxury class
flourished as the roheste of all, the luxury of the table.

The whole body Villas Villas and the whole life finally ran out on
the dining, we had not just different room table for the winter and
summer, but also in the gallery, in the fruit chamber, the bird
house was served or on an open Wildpark Estrade, what then when the
appointed "Orpheus" in Theaterkostuem appeared and blew Tusch,
trained to the deer and wild boars are short.

To ward care for decoration, but the reality is not quite forgotten
about it.

Not only the cook was a graduate Gastronom, but often made the Lord
himself the master of his cooks.

Length were the roast by marine fish and oysters in the shadows by now were
completely Italic river fish from the good board and were banned from
the Italian delicacies and the italian wines for almost common. There
were already at carnivals Italic Falerner except the three kinds of foreign
wines - Sicilians, lesbian, Chiers - distributed, while a human age before
it even at great feasts had enough, once herumzugeben Greek wine in
the cellar of the orator Hortensius was a camp of 10000 Krueger (Berlin
to 33 quart) foreign wine. It was no wonder that the Italian wine-growers
began the competition on the Greek island of wines to sue.

No scientist can avid Country and the seas for new plants and animals
through, as it Esskuenstlern by that time due to new Kuechenelegantien
happened ^ 22nd If the host to the consequences of his superiors
manifolds to escape, after the meal Vomitiv adopted, so this was
no more.

The Débauche of all kinds was so systematic and so burdensome that
it was their professors, who lived to make youths theoretically and
practically as a truck master to serve. It will not be
necessary, in this desert paintings monotonous variety still to
linger longer, so less than even in the area of the Romans, nothing
less than original, and were limited by the Hellenic-oriental luxury
even mass and informal yet witty copy to be delivered.

Of course Pluto swallows his children as well as Kronos, and the
competition for all those most trivial objects distinguished lust
drove prices so high in that the currents floating in a short time,
the fabulous wealth zerrann and those who worship only half the
essentials participate, inherited wealth and festgegruendeten rapidly
unterhoehlen saw.

The application to the consulate, for example, was the usual road to the
ruin of reputable houses, and almost the same is true of the games,
the big buildings and all those others, while fun, but expensive profession.
The princely wealth is just that time of the remaining debt over
princely offered: Caesar owed to 692 (62) of its assets, after deducting
25 million Sestertius (1900000 thalers), Marcus Antonius Vierundzwanzigjaehriger
than 6 million Sestertius (460000 thalers), fourteen years later 40 (3
million thalers), Curio 60 (4 «million thalers), Milo 70 million (5«
Mill thalers).

How consistently that wasteful life and bustle to make the Roman world was
based on credit, which testifies to the fact that the bonds of the
various competitors to the consulate in Rome, once the monthly
interest rate suddenly from four to eight per cent aufschlug.

she
asked, in a way that Alma felt implied he might not be.

"Yes, madam; from Charlottesboag, Virginia," he answered, with the slight
umbrage a man shows when the strange cashier turns his check over and
questions him before cashing it.

Alma writhed internally, but outwardly remained subordinate; she examined
the other girl's dress, and decided in a superficial consciousness that
she had made her own bonnet.

"I shall be glad to show you my rooms," said Mrs. Leighton, with an
irrelevant sigh. "You must excuse their being not just as I should wish
them. We're hardly settled yet."

"Don't speak of it, madam," said the gentleman, "if you can overlook the
trouble we awe giving you at such an unseasonable houah."

"Ah'm a hoasekeepah mahself," Miss Woodburn joined in, "and Ah know ho'
to accyoant fo' everything."

Mrs. Leighton led the way up-stairs, and the young lady decided upon the
large front room and small side room on the third story. She said she
could take the small one, and the other was so large that her father
could both sleep and work in it. She seemed not ashamed to ask if Mrs.
Leighton's price was inflexible, but gave way laughing when her father
refused to have any bargaining, with a haughty self-respect which he
softened to deference for Mrs. Leighton. His impulsiveness opened the way
for some confidence from her, and before the affair was arranged she was
enjoying in her quality of clerical widow the balm of the Virginians'
reverent sympathy. They said they were church people themselves.

"Ah don't know what yo' mothah means by yo' hoase not being in oddah,"
the young lady said to Alma as they went down-stairs together. "Ah'm a
great hoasekeepah mahself, and Ah mean what Ah say."

They had all turned mechanically into the room where the Leightons were
sitting when the Woodburns rang: Mr. Woodburn consented to sit down, and
he remained listening to Mrs. Leighton while his daughter bustled up to
the sketches pinned round the room and questioned Alma about them.

"Ah suppose you awe going to be a great awtust?" she said, in friendly
banter, when Alma owned to having done the things. "Ah've a great notion
to take a few lessons mahself. Who's yo' teachah?"

Alma said she was drawing in Mr. Wetmore's class, and Miss Woodburn said:
"Well, it's just beautiful, Miss Leighton; it's grand. Ah suppose it's
raght expensive, now? Mah goodness! we have to cyoant the coast so much
nowadays; it seems to me we do nothing but cyoant it. Ah'd like to hah
something once without askin' the price."

"Well, if you didn't ask it," said Alma, "I don't believe Mr. Wetmore
would ever know what the price of his lessons was. He has to think, when
you ask him."

"Why, he most be chomming," said Miss Woodburn. "Perhaps Ah maght get the
lessons for nothing from him. Well, Ah believe in my soul Ah'll trah. Now
ho' did you begin? and ho' do you expect to get anything oat of it?" She
turned on Alma eyes brimming with a shrewd mixture of fun and earnest,
and Alma made note of the fact that she had an early nineteenth-century
face, round, arch, a little coquettish, but extremely sensible and
unspoiled-looking, such as used to be painted a good deal in miniature at
that period; a tendency of her brown hair to twine and twist at the
temples helped the effect; a high comb would have completed it, Alma
felt, if she had her bonnet off. It was almost a Yankee country-girl
type; but perhaps it appeared so to Alma because it was, like that, pure
Anglo-Saxon. Alma herself, with her dull, dark skin, slender in figure,
slow in speech, with aristocratic forms in her long hands, and the oval
of her fine face pointed to a long chin, felt herself much more Southern
in style than this blooming, bubbling, bustling Virginian.

"I don't know," she answered, slowly.

"Going to take po'traits," suggested Miss Woodburn, "or just paint the
ahdeal?" A demure burlesque lurked in her tone.

"I suppose I don't expect to paint at all," said Alma. "I'm going to
illustrate books--if anybody will let me."

"Ah should think they'd just joamp at you," said Miss Woodburn. "Ah'll
tell you what let's do, Miss Leighton: you make some pictures, and Ah'll
wrahte a book fo' them. Ah've got to do something. Ali maght as well
wrahte a book. You know we Southerners have all had to go to woak. But Ah
don't mand it. I tell papa I shouldn't ca' fo' the disgrace of bein' poo'
if it wasn't fo' the inconvenience."

"Yes, it's inconvenient," said Alma; "but you forget it when you're at
work, don't you think?"

"Mah, yes! Perhaps that's one reason why poo' people have to woak so
hawd-to keep their wands off their poverty."

The girls both tittered, and turned from talking in a low tone with their
backs toward their elders, and faced them.

"Well, Madison," said Mr. Woodburn, "it is time we should go. I bid you
good-night, madam," he bowed to Mrs. Leighton. "Good-night," he bowed
again to Alma.

His daughter took leave of them in formal phrase, but with a jolly
cordiality of manner that deformalized it. "We shall be roand raght soon
in the mawning, then," she threatened at the door.

"We shall be all ready for you," Alma called after her down the steps.

"Well, Alma?" her mother asked, when the door closed upon them.

"She doesn't know any more about art," said Alma, "than--nothing at all.
But she's jolly and good-hearted. She praised everything that was bad in
my sketches, and said she was going to take lessons herself. When a
person talks about taking lessons, as if they could learn it, you know
where they belong artistically."

Mrs. Leighton shook her head with a sigh. "I wish I knew where they
belonged financially. We shall have to get in two girls at once. I shall
have to go out the first thing in the morning, and then our troubles will
begin."

"Well, didn't you want them to begin? I will stay home and help you get
ready. Our prosperity couldn't begin without the troubles, if you mean
boarders, and boarders mean servants. I shall be very glad to be
afflicted with a cook for a while myself."

"Yes; but we don't know anything about these people, or whether they will
be able to pay us. Did she talk as if they were well off?"

"She talked as if they were poor; poo' she called it."

"Yes, how queerly she pronounced," said Mrs. Leighton. "Well, I ought to
have told them that I required the first week in advance."

"Mamma! If that's the way you're going to act!"

"Oh, of course, I couldn't, after he wouldn't let her bargain for the
rooms. I didn't like that."

"I did. And you can see that they were perfect ladies; or at least one of
them." Alma laughed at herself, but her mother did not notice.

"Their being ladies won't help if they've got no money. It 'll make it
all the worse."

"Very well, then; we have no money, either. We're a match for them any
day there. We can show them that two can play at that game."


III.

Arnus Beaton's studio looked at first glance like many other painters'
studios. A gray wall quadrangularly vaulted to a large north light; casts
of feet, hands, faces hung to nails about; prints, sketches in oil and
water-color stuck here and there lower down; a rickety table, with paint
and palettes and bottles of varnish and siccative tossed comfortlessly on
it; an easel, with a strip of some faded mediaeval silk trailing from it;
a lay figure simpering in incomplete nakedness, with its head on one
side, and a stocking on one leg, and a Japanese dress dropped before it;
dusty rugs and skins kicking over the varnished floor; canvases faced to
the mop-board; an open trunk overflowing with costumes: these features
one might notice anywhere. But, besides, there was a bookcase with an
unusual number of books in it, and there was an open colonial
writing-desk, claw-footed, brass-handled, and scutcheoned, with foreign
periodicals--French and English--littering its leaf, and some pages of
manuscript scattered among them. Above all, there was a sculptor's
revolving stand, supporting a bust which Beaton was modelling, with an
eye fixed as simultaneously as possible on the clay and on the head of
the old man who sat on the platform beside it.

Few men have been able to get through the world with several gifts to
advantage in all; and most men seem handicapped for the race if they have
more than one. But they are apparently immensely interested as well as
distracted by them. When Beaton was writing, he would have agreed, up to
a certain point, with any one who said literature was his proper
expression; but, then, when he was painting, up to a certain point, he
would have maintained against the world that he was a colorist, and
supremely a colorist. At the certain point in either art he was apt to
break away in a frenzy of disgust and wreak himself upon some other. In
these moods he sometimes designed elevations of buildings, very striking,
very original, very chic, very everything but habitable. Since it came
out that accidental near the capital, on the road Appischen, Achilles
and Hektor aufeinandertrafen and between dual band released a
brawl emerged in which Clodius own Saebelhieb received in the shoulder and
was forced into a nearby house to escape . This was done without authority
Milos, since the case but so far had come and the storm now but once
had to be passed, it seemed the whole crime Milo desirable and even less
dangerous than the half: he ordered his men to Clodius from his
hervorzuziehen and hiding him niederzumachen (January 13 702 52). The
Strassenfuehrer of the party's leaders, Volkstribune Titus Munatius Plancus,
Quintus Pompeius Rufus and Gaius Sallustius crispus, saw in this incident
an appropriate occasion to look in the interests of their masters Milos
candidacy to thwart Pompey and 'dictatorship enforcing. The yeast of the
rabble, including freedmen and slaves, had their patron saint with
Clodius and future liberator taking important: the need for excitement
was so easily effected. After the bloody corpse on the Rednerbuehne
Market in parade issued and the corresponding speeches were The
riot was going on.

On the pyre for the great emancipator became the seat of the perfidious
aristocracy: the retting carried the body in the town hall and lit the
building. This attracted the swarm before Milos house and held the same
siege, whose ties to the attackers with Pfeilschuessen distribution.
Next it went before the house of Pompey and his Konsularkandidaten,
of which that a dictator, such as consuls were welcomed, and since
before the of the intermediate Marcus Lepidus Koenigs, the head
of the Consular elections fell. Since these duties are refused, the same
as the roaring pile is called immediately to organize, so also he
was five days in his apartment besieged held.

But the operators of this outrageous performances were about to play
their role. However, it was also their Lord and Master determined that
this incident privileged to use, not merely to eliminate Milo, but also
the dictatorship to take alone, he wanted them not by a bunch Knuettelmaenner
receive, but by the Senate. Pompey moved troops up to the ruling in
the capital and in fact all over the world become unbearable anarchy down
strike, while he now what he has requested, and was referred to the Senate.
It was only a void dodge that at the proposal of Cato and Pompey Bibulus
proconsul under the Leave of his previous posts instead of the dictator
"consul without colleague" was appointed (25th of the month leap ^ 8
702 52) - a dodge, which is a zwiefachem internal contradiction tainted
^ 9 designation allowed to just simply sachbezeichnende be avoided, and
the vividly recalls the wise decision of the missing Junkertums the
plebeian not the consulate, only consular Violence rights. --------
-------------------------------------------- ^ 8 In this year, followed
on January 29 and February with 23 days of the leap month of 28 and
then to March. ^ 9 Consul called colleague (I, 260) and a consul, proconsul
of both, is also real and vice consul. ---- ------------------------------------------------
So the lawful possession of the attorney, Pompey went to the plant
and progressively strongly against the front of the club and the courts
jurors powerful Republican Party. The existing election rules have been
by a special law repeatedly eingeschaerft and another against the
Wahlumtriebe, since for all the 684 (70) acts of misconduct of this kind
was given retroactive effect, so far it's increased penalties. More
important still was the disposal that the Governor's activities , that
is by far the most important and half the other entries Amtstaetigkeit,
to the consuls and praetor does not immediately withdraw from the
consulate or the Praetur, but only after another five years should be
awarded the order of course only after four years could come to life
and therefore for the next time the occupation of the governor of the
activities essential for this interim regulation to be issued
Senatsbeschluessen, so really from the moment the Senate dominant
person or group subject.

The jurors remained commissions exist, but the limits were Rekusationsrecht
and, perhaps more importantly, freedom of speech in the courts abolished
by both the number of lawyers admitted to each as measured by talktime
Maximalsaetze limited and the indented bad: besides the fact even
character witnesses, or so-called "eulogist" in favor of the accused
to teach, was prohibited.

The Senate decreed also obedient to Pompey 'Wink, that the Raufhandel
on the street Appischen the homeland at risk and that, therefore,
was for all associated with the same crimes by an exceptional law
a special Commission whose members are appointed and virtually
appointed by Pompey.

It was also made an attempt, the censors office again a serious
role and to the deep by the same disruptive residents from the worst
rabble clean.

All these measures were made under the pressures of the saber.

Following the declaration of the Senate, that the Fatherland was
endangered, called Pompey in Italy, the service team under the arms
and took her for all cases in the oath and duty was temporarily a
sufficient and reliable force placed on the Capitol, where every
emotion opposition Pompey threatened by armed intervention and
provided during the process of negotiations over the murder of
Clodius against all come at the guard on Gerichtsstaette itself.

The plan to revive the censorship failed because the servile
Senatsmajoritaet no moral courage, and had enough authority to order
such an office only to apply.

In contrast, Milo was convicted by the jury (8 April 702 52), Cato the
consulate to apply for 703 (51) frustrated.

The speeches and Pamphletenopposition received by the new order process
a blow from which it has not recovered, and the dreaded judicial
eloquence was thus from the political field was ousted and now the
reins of the monarchy.

Gone was the opposition, of course, neither from the minds of the great
majority of the nation, or even completely from public life -
this would be the people's elections, the courts and the jurors not just
literature, but must destroy. Yes just for themselves, these operations
did Pompey by his awkwardness and mixes back to the fact that the
Republicans themselves under his dictatorship individual triumphs
for him were given.

The Tendenzmassregeln the ruler to attach their power is taken, have been
officially classified as naturally in the interest of public peace and
order characterizes dispositions made every citizen and the anarchy
is not wanted, as much in agreement with the same means.

With this transparent fiction Pompey drove it but so far that he joined
the Special Commission of Inquiry into the last safe casserole
instead of the tools achtbarsten men of all parties, even Cato dials
and its influence on the court greatly anwandte to the organization
to handle and the in the courts this time, traditional spectacles
his followers as well as the opponents to make impossible.

The neutrality of the regents saw the rulings of the Special Court. The
jurors did not dare, even releasing Milo, but the most subordinate of
the party accused the Republican opposition, went free, while the
conviction unnachsichtlich those met in the last riot of Clodius,
that means for the party's leaders had taken under them not a few
of Caesar and Pompey himself from 'familiar friends, even his
consulate to the candidate, Hypsaeus and Volkstribune Plancus and
Rufus, in his interest had conducted the review.

If Pompey whose conviction is not prevented, in order to appear
impartial, so this was a silliness, and a second that he is back
in all indifferent things, in favor of his friends violated its own
laws, for example, in the process of Plancus appeared as a character
witness, individual and his close associates particular defendants,
such as Metellus Scipio, in fact before the sentencing protection.

As usual, he wanted also opposite things: he tried to meet the obligations
of the regents and impartial head of the party to exercise discretion,
he satisfied neither these nor those of the public and was published
with a legal opinion as a despotic Regent, his followers with the same
law as a guide, which does not protect either with him or could not
protect wanted. However, even if the Republicans still are, and even
suggested, mainly by Pompey 'spurious, here and there a single success
they anfrischte, so was the object of the rulers at that dictatorship
had to put in all reaches of the reins tighter tightened , the Republican
party humiliated and fastened the new monarchy. The crowd began to
move in this finding. As Pompey not long afterwards from a serious
illness recovered, became its restoration throughout Italy, with the
obligatory Freudenbezeigungen celebrated at such occasions in monarchies
often work. The leaders expressed their satisfaction: on 1 August 702
(52) Pompey put down the dictatorship and informed the consulate with his
clients Metellus Scipio 9. Chapter Crassus' death, the fraction of the
total sub-ruler of the heads of the three monster "was Marcus Crassus
had been counted for years without actually mitzuzaehlen. He served
the real rulers of Pompey and Caesar as equilibrium stone, or more
accurately, he fell into Caesar's balance against Pompey. This role is not
very honorable, but Crassus was never hindered by tremendous honor, to
pursue his advantage. He was a merchant and had with them to act.

What he offered was, was not much, however, because nothing more was to
receive, he took it and looked for the gnawing ambition and frustration
over his power so close and yet powerless position on the increasingly
higher haeufenden him Goldberger to forget.

But the conference also turned to Luca for the situation to him: Pompey
to oppose the so-extended even further concessions in the weight
to stay overnight, Caesar gave his old ally Crassus opportunity,
through the Parthischen war ebendahin to arrive in Syria, where
Caesar by Celtic in Gaul was reached.

It was difficult to tell whether these new prospects to more cravings for
gold attracted to the man now sechzigjaehrigen to another nature
had become and with each newly acquired only one million in order
to ward zehrender or more in the breast of a long Graukopfs Muehsam
niedergekaempften and now with uncanny fire glowing in her ambition.

In the early 700 (54) he met in Syria: not even the end of his
consulate, he had to wait to leave. Fully hasty passion he seemed to
be every minute auskaufen want to catch up to the treasures of the West
nor the East einzutun , captain power and captain fame soon as effortlessly
as Caesar and Pompey to erjagen. Parthischen It was the war already begun.
Pompey 'disloyal behavior against the Parthians has earlier been
told he had the conventional Euphratgrenze are not respected and
in favor of Armenia, now the Roman client state was, several
landscapes from Parthischen empire demolished.

Koenig Phraates had to leave the fallen: but after his two sons, Mithradates
and Orodes murdered had been declared the new king Mithradates the king
of Armenia, Tigran the recently deceased son Artavasdes, immediately the
war (to 698 ^ 1 56). It was also a declaration of war against Rome,
and therefore the Jewish uprising was suppressed, the brave and
courageous governor of Syria, Gabinius the legions on the Euphrates.

Partherreich In the meantime, however, was a revolution occurred and the
greats of the empire, at their head, the young, talented and kuehne
Grand, king Mithradates had fallen and his brother on the throne Orodes
set. Mithradates did so common thing with the Romans and went to Gabinius'
camp. Everything the company promised the Roman governor of the best
success when he unexpectedly received command, the king of Egypt
by force of arms after Alexandreia attributed.

He knew to obey, but in the expectation of soon to be back, led it to him
pleading for help Partherfuersten deposed, the war is now on his own to
open. Mithradates did and Seleukeia Babylon and declared themselves for
him, but took Seleukeia the vizier, he personally, the first on the
battlements, with stuermender hand, and in Babylon knew Mithradates himself
defeated by starvation, revealed what he command of the brother was
executed. His death was a sensible loss for the Romans, but Fermentation
in the realm was Parthischen but not to the end and also the Armenian
war lasted still continues. Eben Gabinius was in the process after
the termination of the Egyptian campaign, the still favorable opportunity
and resume interrupted Parthischen war, as Crassus arrived in Syria
with the command and also the plans of his predecessor took over.

Full high-flying, he hopes the difficulties of the March low, the
resistance of the enemy armies to even lower; confident he spoke
not only of the subjection of the Panther, but conquered in the rich
thought of Bactria and India. ------- --------------------------------------------
^ 1 Tigran lived in February 698 (56) (Cic.

Sest. 27, 59), while there was Artavasdes before 700 (54) (Iust. 42,
2, 4; Plut. Crass. 49). ---------- -----------------------------------------
hurry, however, had not the new Alexander. Invented before he was so
big plans to work sat, still must be very large and very
lucrative sideline. The temple of Hierapolis Derketo in Bambyke, of
Jehovah in Jerusalem and other rich sanctuaries of the Syrian province
were Crassus' command robbed of their treasures and all moving
subjects or rather yet to take the same amounts of money contributed
too.

The military operations of the first summer was limited to extensive
reconnaissance in Mesopotamia, the Euphrates was exceeded in Ichnae
(at Belik, north of Rakkah) parthische Satrap the beaten and the
nearby towns, including the handsome Nikephorion (Rakkah), occupied
what with abandonment of crews in the same again after Syria dropped.

It had fluctuated so far, whether it was wiser to detour over the Armenia
or on the road straight through the Mesopotamian desert to the part to
march. The first way through mountainous and reliable allies dominated
landscapes suggested by the larger security; Koenig Artavasdes came even
in the Roman headquarters to plan the campaign to support it. With
those ruled reconnaissance for the march through Mesopotamia. The numerous
and prosperous Greek halbgriechischen and towns in the countryside
on the Euphrates and Tigris, before all the world Seleukeia city,
were the rule parthischen quite reluctant, as the former residents
of Karrhae, it had all touched by the Romans with the Greek towns
of the fact proved how ready they were, the intolerable off foreign
domination and the Romans as liberators, almost as a fellow to
receive.

The Araberfuerst Abgaros the desert of Edessa and Karrhae and thus the
usual road from the Euphrates to the Tigris-dominated, had the bearing
of the Roemer is introduced, his devotion to the same person to
be insured.

Quite the Parthians had shown itself unprepared. To ward because of the
Euphrates (in Biradjik) exceeded (701 53).

To get from there to reach the Tigris, has been a way zwiefachen choice:
either put the army on the Euphrates down to the height of Seleukeia,
where the Euphrates and the Tigris River just a few miles apart;
or one immediately after the proposed Uebergang on the shortest
line across the vast Mesopotamian desert, the way to the Tigris On.

The first path leads directly to the parthische capital Ktesiphon, which
Seleukeia opposite at the other bank of the Tigris was, it stood up
for them in the Roman War several important votes, including the quaestor
Gaius Cassius pointed to the difficulties of Wuestenmarsches and to the
concern, from the Roman occupation on the left Euphratufer about war
preparations parthischen entered.
Where a girl doesn't seem very strong, like Miss
Leighton, no amount of chic is going to help."

His wife disputed him on behalf of her sex, as women always do.

"No, Dolly," he persisted; "she'd better be home milking the cows and
leading the horse to water."

"Do you think she'd better be up till two in the morning at balls and
going all day to receptions and luncheons?"

"Oh, guess it isn't a question of that, even if she weren't drawing. You
knew them at home," he said to Beaton.

"Yes."

"I remember. Her mother said you suggested me. Well, the girl has some
notion of it; there's no doubt about that. But--she's a woman. The
trouble with these talented girls is that they're all woman. If they
weren't, there wouldn't be much chance for the men, Beaton. But we've got
Providence on our own side from the start. I'm able to watch all their
inspirations with perfect composure. I know just how soon it's going to
end in nervous breakdown. Somebody ought to marry them all and put them
out of their misery."

"And what will you do with your students who are married already?" his
wife said. She felt that she had let him go on long enough.

"Oh, they ought to get divorced."

"You ought to be ashamed to take their money if that's what you think of
them."

"My dear, I have a wife to support."

Beaton intervened with a question. "Do you mean that Miss Leighton isn't
standing it very well?"

"How do I know? She isn't the kind that bends; she's the kind that
breaks."

After a little silence Mrs. Wetmore asked, "Won't you come home with us,
Mr. Beaton?"

"Thank you; no. I have an engagement."

"I don't see why that should prevent you," said Wetmore. "But you always
were a punctilious cuss. Well!"

Beaton lingered over his cigar; but no one else whom he knew came in, and
he yielded to the threefold impulse of conscience, of curiosity, of
inclination, in going to call at the Leightons'. He asked for the ladies,
and the maid showed him into the parlor, where he found Mrs. Leighton and
Miss Woodburn.

The widow met him with a welcome neatly marked by resentment; she meant
him to feel that his not coming sooner had been noticed. Miss Woodburn
bubbled and gurgled on, and did what she could to mitigate his
punishment, but she did not feel authorized to stay it, till Mrs.
Leighton, by studied avoidance of her daughter's name, obliged Beaton to
ask for her. Then Miss Woodburn caught up her work, and said, "Ah'll go
and tell her, Mrs. Leighton." At the top of the stairs she found Alma,
and Alma tried to make it seem as if she had not been standing there.
"Mah goodness, chald! there's the handsomest young man asking for you
down there you evah saw. Alh told you' mothah Ah would come up fo' you."

"What--who is it?"

"Don't you know? But bo' could you? He's got the most beautiful eyes,
and he wea's his hai' in a bang, and he talks English like it was
something else, and his name's Mr. Beaton."

"Did he-ask for me?" said Alma, with a dreamy tone. She put her hand on
the stairs rail, and a little shiver ran over her.

"Didn't I tell you? Of coase he did! And you ought to go raght down if
you want to save the poo' fellah's lahfe; you' mothah's just freezin' him
to death."


V.

"She is?" cried Alma. "Tchk!" She flew downstairs, and flitted swiftly
into the room, and fluttered up to Beaton, and gave him a crushing
hand-shake.

"How very kind, of you to come and see us, Mr. Beaton! When did you come
to New York? Don't you find it warm here? We've only just lighted the
furnace, but with this mild weather it seems too early. Mamma does keep
it so hot!" She rushed about opening doors and shutting registers, and
then came back and sat facing him from the sofa with a mask of radiant
cordiality. "How have you been since we saw you?"

"Very well," said Beaton. "I hope you're well, Miss Leighton?"

"Oh, perfectly! I think New York agrees with us both wonderfully. I never
knew such air. And to think of our not having snow yet! I should think
everybody would want to come here! Why don't you come, Mr. Beaton?"

Beaton lifted his eyes and looked at her. "I--I live in New York," he
faltered.

"In New York City!" she exclaimed.

"Surely, Alma," said her mother, "you remember Mr. Beaton's telling us he
lived in New York."

"But I thought you came from Rochester; or was it Syracuse? I always get
those places mixed up."

"Probably I told you my father lived at Syracuse. I've been in New York
ever since I came home from Paris," said Beaton, with the confusion of a
man who feels himself played upon by a woman.

"From Paris!" Alma echoed, leaning forward, with her smiling mask tight
on. "Wasn't it Munich where you studied?"

"I was at Munich, too. I met Wetmore there."

"Oh, do you know Mr. Wetmore?"

"Why, Alma," her mother interposed again, "it was Mr. Beaton who told you
of Mr. Wetmore."

"Was it? Why, yes, to be sure. It was Mrs. Horn who suggested Mr. Ilcomb.
I remember now. I can't thank you enough for having sent me to Mr.
Wetmore, Mr. Beaton. Isn't he delightful? Oh yes, I'm a perfect
Wetmorian, I can assure you. The whole class is the same way."

"I just met him and Mrs. Wetmore at dinner," said Beaton, attempting the
recovery of something that he had lost through the girl's shining ease
and steely sprightliness. She seemed to him so smooth and hard, with a
repellent elasticity from which he was flung off. "I hope you're not
working too hard, Miss Leighton?"

"Oh no! I enjoy every minute of it, and grow stronger on it. Do I look
very much wasted away?" She looked him full in the face, brilliantly
smiling, and intentionally beautiful.

"No," he said, with a slow sadness; "I never saw you looking better."

"Poor Mr. Beaton!" she said, in recognition of his doleful tune. The
insolvency, rather than on time but the bankruptcy or liquidation,
and thus at least bring back a clear relationship, was usually from
the debtor, as long as there was any, of delaying, rather than its
effects, including its Land for sale, he continued, to borrow and
the rich continue to slip to play, because until the noise just so
angry and came erupted bankruptcies such as that of Milo, where the
creditors slightly more than four per cent of the liquidated sums
received.

It won in this rapidly turning from wealth to bankruptcy and this
systematic course nobody dizziness as the cool banker, who is
understood to give credit to refuse.

So because the Kreditverhaeltnisse almost at the same point again, where
they are in the worst periods of social crisis in the fifth
century, had stood the nominal landowners were at the same time
the Bittbesitzer their creditors, the debtor either menial subdue
their creditors, so that the lesser of them, equal to the freedmen,
in the wake of that appeared to make even in the Senate after Mr.

Wink said her guilt, and agreed, or even in the term, the property
itself to declare war and to their creditors, either by threats to terrorize
or even their by conspiracy and civil war to discard. To such relationships
rested the power of Crassus, they rise to the casseroles, which
signal the "free folium" was, of Cinna, and yet certain of Catiline,
of Caelius, the Dolabella, completely similar to those battles of
the haves and haves not that a century previously the Hellenic world
moving.

The fact that so undermined Economic conditions any financial or political
crisis, the terrible confusion caused, lay in the nature of things:
it needs hardly be said that the ordinary phenomena: the disappearance
of the capital, the sudden devaluation of Lands, numerous bankruptcies,
and a almost general insolvency, ebenwie during the Bundesgenoessischen
and Mithradatischen, is now, during the Civil War is terminated.
------------------------------ --------------------- ^ 22 We still
have (Macr.

Sat 3, 13) to the diet of meal, which Lucius Lentulus Niger before 691
(63) at commencement of his pontificate, and was attended by the
Pontifices - including Caesar - the Vestal Virgins and priests and
some other closely related ladies took part.

Before the meal came Meerigel; fresh oysters as much as the guests
wished; Gienmuscheln; Lazarus flaps; Krammetsvoegel with asparagus; fatted
chicken, oyster and mussel pie, black and white Meereicheln; again Lazarus
flaps; Glykymarismuscheln; hives mussels; fig snipes; Rehrippen; pork
ribs; in poultry flour baked; fig woodcock, purple shells, two
varieties.

The meal itself consisted of pork breast, pork head, fish pâté,
pork pâté, duck, cooked Kriechenten; hare; roasted poultry;
Kraftmehlbackwerk; Pontic pastries.

These are the Kollegienschmaeuse, of which Varro (rust. 3, 2, 16) says
that they are Prices of all the delicacies in the altitude too. The
same counts in one of his satires as the most prominent foreign
delicacies to the following: peacocks from Samos; Haselhuehner from
Phrygia, cranes from Melos; kid from Ambrakia; Kalchedon of tuna, moray
eels from the Straits Gaditanischen; noble (?) By Pessinus. Oysters and
mussels from Taranto; Stoere (?)

Of Rhodes; Scarusfische (?) Of Cilicia; meat of Thasos; Datteln from
Egypt; Spanish acorns. ------------------- --------------------------------
That morality and family life under such conditions in all strata of
society to the antiques were, of course by itself, it was no longer
the worst epithets and the worst crimes, to be poor, but the only one: to
raise money sold the Statesman to the state, the citizen's liberty; money
was the officer in place as the ball of the jurors for sale, to
raise money the noble lady was so good as to disclose the common
prostitute; Urkundenfaelschung and perjury had become so common
that when a people Poetenfest oath this time of "the debts patch" is.

We had forgotten what honesty was, who refused a bribe, was not for
a righteous man, but a personal enemy.

The crime statistics from all periods and countries is hardly a
Seitenstueck offer a Schaudergemaelde so varied, so horrible and unnatural
crimes, as the process of Aulus Cluentius in the lap of one of the
most respected families of arable Italic city before winding us.

But how deep in the essence of the folk life of the mud is toxic and
always loose soil is collected, then laid himself so much smoother
and rail stations across the surface of the varnish of fine manners
and universal friendship.

All the world is visited each other, so that in the houses to make it is
already necessary that every morning for Levermann is recruiting
people in some of the Lord, or, occasionally, the valet vorzulassen
fixed sequence, even the well-known individual audience must be
given to the other, but sometimes in groups, sometimes in mass
finally cleared, divorce which Gaius Gracchus, this also the scout
of the new monarchy, should be preceded.

An equally large extent how the Hoeflichkeitsbesuche has also won the
Hoeflichkeitsbriefwechsel; between persons who do not have a
personal relationship with each other stores have yet to fly the
"friendly" letters on land and sea, and vice versa come true and
formal business letters almost just as before where the letter to
a corporation is addressed.

In the same way, the invitations to the table, the usual New Year's
gifts, the family celebrations by their very nature and alienated
almost turns into public festivities, yes, death itself is not
exempt from these considerations to the countless "next", but to
be honest died be the same every Roemer least have considered a
souvenir.

Ebenwie in certain parts of our world Boerse was the intimate
domestic and home-friendly connection to the former Rome so completely
lost that with the inhaltlos become shapes and phrases that the
entire business and know traffic is staffieren and then gradually
take the place of the real specter that the "friendship" could
occur, which among many about the proscription and civil wars, this
time floating Hoellengeistern not the last place.

An equally characteristic train in the shimmering expiration of
this time is the emancipation of women worldwide.

Economic, women had longer self-employed in the contemporary era
meet Frauenanwaelte already own, the isolated rich ladies in their
wealth and their processes attentive to go through the business and
legal knowledge, and impress them so abundant gratuities and
inheritance beat out rates than other paving Treter The Wall Street
Journal.

But not just the economic tutelage of his father or the husband
felt the women would be released.

Liebeshaendel all kinds of stocks on the Tapet. Ballettaenzerinnen
(Mima) participated in diversity and virtuosity of their industries
with the present is entirely at their Primadonnen the Cytheris and
how they continue to warm, the soil itself leaves of history.

However, their quasi-licensed commercial tat very substantial demolition
to free art of the ladies of the aristocratic circles. Liaisons in the
first houses had become so frequent that only a very exceptional nuisance
to the subject matter they could make specific Gossip; judicial
intervention even now seemed almost ridiculous . A scandal without
precedent, as Publius Clodius 693 (61) in which women in the house of
detention Oberpontifex performed, though a thousand times worse than the
events that are still fifty years earlier on a number of death sentences
had run, and went almost without examination and without penalty to .
The swimming season - in April, where the government stores and
rested in the noble world Baiae and Puteoli zusammenstroemte - moved
its main attraction with the lawful and unlawful conditions, besides
the music and vocals and elegant breakfast in the boat or on shore,
the gondola rides busy.

Here the ladies fully prevailed, however, they did not confine
itself to this they shall by law domain, but they also made policy,
published in Parteizusammenkuenften and took part with their money
and their intrigues in the desert Koterietreiben time.

Those on the stage Staatsmaenninnen Scipio and Cato act and also saw the
young Elegantly how he and chin smooth, fine voice and a mincing motion
with head and Busentuechern, cuff shirts and women's casual sandals
the Dirnchen copied, probably liked the gray front of the unnatural
world in which gender roles seemed to want to change. How to get into
the districts of this aristocracy thought about divorce, the process
allows their best and most moral man Marcus Cato recognize the marriage
at the request of a funny friend of his wife to another, no decency and
just took out after the death of this same friend's wife the second
time to marry. Marriage and childlessness accessed primarily in the
higher social classes to get more and more. If under such a long marriage
was regarded as a burden that is maximum in the public interest is
adopted, so we now face even at Cato and Cato sympathizers of the maxim
from which a century before the expiration of Polybios Hellas derived:
that it is civic duty was the great fortunes together and not too much
about children to testify. Where were the times when the designation
"children producer" (proletarius) for the Roemer an honorary name was!
A result of these social conditions disappeared the Latin root in Italy
in frightening ways, and lay down on the beautiful landscapes partly the
parasitic immigration and partly the pure bleakness. A considerable
proportion of the population of Italy flocked to foreign countries.
Even the sum of the capacity and labor, the supply of Italian officials
and Italian crews for the entire Mediterranean area in the right took
over, the forces on the peninsula, especially since that is in the
Aliens sent items to a large part of the nation forever lost. The
more the Roman community to a comprehensive range of many nations grew,
the more weaned the ruling aristocracy, Italy, as its exclusive home
to consider, from the service or hired crew excavated but there was a
considerable part in the many wars, especially in the bloody civil
wars based, and another was by the long, sometimes to a human age is
classified service of the home completely alienated.

In the same way as the public service, the speculative part of the
land and almost all Kaufmannschaft if not his life, but for a long time
except country and weaned including the latter in the travel trade
demoralizing life over all the civil existence in the mother country
and the many related within the family. As a substitute for some of Italy
won the slaves and Released proletariat, partly derived from Asia
Minor, Syria and Egypt inflowing craftsmen and merchants, mainly in the
capital, and even more in the Hafenstaedten Ostia, Puteoli, Brundisium
grew. But in the biggest and most important part of Italy did not
even such a replacement of the pure elements by impure, but
disappeared from the population visibly.

Above all, this was considered by the grazing landscapes, like the promised
land because of animal husbandry, Puglia, of simultaneity
menschenleerste part of Italy is called, and from the vicinity of
Rome, where the Campagna in the constant interaction of the declining
agriculture and the growing evil air annually more abandoned.

Labici, Gabii, Bovillae, once friendly Landstaedtchen, were in ruins, that
there was difficult, representatives of the same for the ceremony of
Latinerfestes to obtain. Tusculum, although still one of the most
prestigious communities Lazio, consisted almost solely of making
some families who lived in the capital, but their home tusculanisches
law held, and the number stood at stimmfaehigen citizens themselves far
back behind the inner small communities in Italy. The root of the
weapons team was in this land, once on the defensive much of Rome had
been based so completely, that is, in comparison with the current
ratio fabulous sounding reports the Chronicle of the Aequer and
Volskerkriegen with amazement and perhaps with horror las .

Not everywhere, it was so bad, especially not in the other parts of
central Italy and in Campania: but "standing", as Varro laments,
consistently rich man once deserted cities. It is a terrible picture,
this picture of Italy under the regiment of the oligarchy. Between
the world of beggars and the world of the rich is nothing ominous
contrast mediated or mitigated. The more embarrassing, and he felt
on both sides was, according dizzying heights of wealth grew, the deeper
the abyss of poverty yawned, became more frequent in this turbulent
world of speculation and gambling of the individual from the depths
to the heights and re-exported from the Height hurled into the depths.
The more external auseinanderklafften the two worlds, the more complete
they are encountered in the same destruction of family life, but the
germ of all nationalities and core is in the same laziness and exuberance,
the same soil-less economy, the same unmanly dependence, the same,
only distinguished corruption in the tariff, the same Verbrecherentsittlichung,
the same desires, with the property to begin the war. Wealth and misery
in intimate Bunde driving Italic from Italy, and fill the peninsula
Sklavengewimmel with half and half with a look dreadful silence. It is
a terrible picture, but no owner, everywhere, where the regiment in the
capitalist slave state is fully developed, it has God's beautiful
world equally devastated. As the flow in different colors, but all
over the cloaca just looks so similar to the Italy Cicerone era of much
of the Hellas and certain Polybios nor the time of Hannibal of Carthage,
where in the same way the omnipotent ruling the Middle based capital
addressed, the trade and the highest Bluete Gutswirtschaft to
increase and finally a gleißend glossed over moral and political
decay of the nation had achieved.

Everything in the world today, the capital of wicked sins against
nation, and civilization has committed, it remains deep under the horrors
of the old capitalist countries, such as the free man, no matter how poor,
about the slave remains, and only when North America Drachensaat matures,
the world will again similar fruits to reap. This suffering, in which
the Italian economy daniederlag were their deepest cores according
incurable, and what it could still be cured, had much the people
and the better time, because the wisest government can as little
as the most skilful physician, the corrupt juices of organism to
transform into fresh or deeper evils to do more than fend off the
randomness of the healing power of nature in their work prevents.

Such a defense is already granted to the peaceful energy of the new
regiment, which some of the worst excesses of themselves disappear,
like the artificial big draw of the proletariat, the impunity of
the crimes, the Aemterkauf and more. With a little more but the Government
could do just as not hurt. Caesar is not among the ueberklugen people, the
sea is not a question of control, because the spring tide but no levee
to defy the interview. It is better if the nation and even the economics
of naturgemaesse train goes, but since it was from this outlet, so put
all his energy Caesar, in order from above the nation in the home and
family life back and Volksoekonomie by law and decree to reform. To the
permanent absence of the Italic from Italy to control the world and the
noble Kaufmannschaft establishing his own flock in the home run
was not only the duty of the soldiers shortened, but also the men
senators stand on all prohibited other than in public stores their
residence outside Italy increasing, the other marriageable age in
Italy (from the twentieth to the fortieth year) required, not over
three years in a row of Italy to be absent.

In the same sense of Caesar had been in his first consulate in the colony
of Capua founding fathers of several children and preferably be
considered now as the Emperor continued the fathers of numerous families
from extraordinary rewards, while it also acts as a supreme judge of the
nation divorce and adultery with a Roman terms after outrageous
rigorism treated.

He spurned it does not even provide a detailed luxury Act to enact, among
other things, the Bauverschwendung least one of their absurd excesses,
the grave monuments, pruned, the use of beads and Purpurgewaendern to
certain times, age and rank categories and it totally prohibited
adult men , the panel set a maximum effort and a number of luxury dishes
virtually banned. Similar regulations were admittedly not new, but
it was new, that the "moral champion" seriously thought about their
adherence to Esswarenmaerkte paid by watchdogs watched over, yes,
the lord's court by his servant the table and revise the forbidden
bowls on this course could confiscate .

Such theoretical and practical instruction in the moderation, which the
new monarchic Police issued the genteel world could indeed be achieved
little more than the luxury that is a bit more into the obscurity retreated
alone when the hypocrisy is the homage that vice offerings of
virtue, it was among those days even the police produced a non
Scheinehrbarkeit to despise progress for the better.

Ernst nature and were promised more success the Caesars measures to better
regulate the Italic money and land economy. First there was transitory
provisions regarding the lack of money and the debt crisis überhaupt.
Because of the noise over the capital caused zurueckgehaltenen law
that no one over 60000 Sestertius (4600 thalers) equivalent to gold and
silver stock may have, may well be given only to the anger of the audience
against the blind Wucherer to appease the form of publication, which was
bogus, that this just an old, forgotten law eingeschaerft will again, it
shows that Caesar is ashamed of this disposal, and it is difficult to
truly made his application. A far more serious issue was the treatment
of the pending claims, the full adoption of the party, which his called
Caesar with impetuousness coveted. That same desire for this not so
received, was already said, however, were yet, and already in the year
705 (49), the debtors made two important concessions.

Once interest has been the less depressed ^ 23 and the amount
deducted from capital.

Second, the creditor was forced to the movable and immovable Did the
debtor in payment after the person instead Taxwert to which the
objects before the civil war and brought about by the same general
devaluation had had.

The latter determination was not unreasonable, if the creditor is actually
as the owner of the effects of his debtor to the amount of the sum owed
to him was, so it was probably justified by the fact that he participated
in the general devaluation of its share ownership support. On the other
hand, the cancellation of paid or outstanding interest payments, by
which the matter after the creditors in addition to the self interest of
what they at the time of the adoption of the law to require capital had
an average loss of 25 percent, was in fact nothing more than a partially
granted by the Democrats so vehement appeal to the coveted came from
loans receivable, and how badly the interest Wucherer gewirtschaftet
have liked, it is not possible, so that the destruction of all
retroactive interest receivable without distinction to justify.

To this agitation at least to understand, one must recall how the
Democratic Party to the interest issue was. The statutory prohibition
on interest, which is the old Plebejeropposition in the year 412 (342)
force was through the means of the Civil Praetur dominant nobility
actually set out the application, but formally since that time remained
in validity, and the Democrats of the seventh century, which is
seen as the continuator those old estates and social movement, had
the invalidity of the interest payments at any time claims, even
in the turmoil of the Marian least temporarily same time practically
claimed.

It is not believe that Caesar, the crude views of his party on the interest
rate question informed, if he in his report on the liquidation of the
matter on which the dedication of the effects of the debtor intends
to pay instead, but the appeal of interest is silent, this is
perhaps a silent self-reproach.

Solo Parteifuehrer as everyone but he hung from his party and was the
traditional sentences of democracy in the interest rate issue is
not even deny, the more so when he was about this issue not as a
champion of the almighty Pharsalos, but before his departure after
Epirus were to decide that.

You can't go over all their
reviews and magazines, and he could do the smelling for you, if you could
trust his nose. Would he know a good thing?"

"I think he would," said March, on whom the scope of Fulkerson's
suggestion gradually opened. "He used to have good taste, and he must
know the ground. Why, it's a capital idea, Fulkerson! Lindau wrote very
fair English, and he could translate, with a little revision."

"And he would probably work cheap. Well, hadn't you better see him about
it? I guess it 'll be quite a windfall for him."

"Yes, it will. I'll look him up. Thank you for the suggestion,
Fulkerson."

"Oh, don't mention it! I don't mind doing 'Every Other Week' a good turn
now and then when it comes in my way." Fulkerson went out again, and this
time March was finally left with Mr. Dryfoos.

"Mrs. March was very sorry not to be at home when your sisters called the
other day. She wished me to ask if they had any afternoon in particular.
There was none on your mother's card."

"No, sir," said the young man, with a flush of embarrassment that seemed
habitual with him. "She has no day. She's at home almost every day. She
hardly ever goes out."

"Might we come some evening?" March asked. "We should be very glad to do
that, if she would excuse the informality. Then I could come with Mrs.
March."

"Mother isn't very formal," said the young man. "She would be very glad
to see you."

"Then we'll come some night this week, if you will let us. When do you
expect your father back?"

"Not much before Christmas. He's trying to settle up some things at
Moffitt."

"And what do you think of our art editor?" asked March, with a smile, for
the change of subject.

"Oh, I don't know much about such things," said the young man, with
another of his embarrassed flushes. "Mr. Fulkerson seems to feel sure
that he is the one for us."

"Mr. Fulkerson seemed to think that I was the one for you, too," said
March; and he laughed. "That's what makes me doubt his infallibility. But
he couldn't do worse with Mr. Beaton."

Mr. Dryfoos reddened and looked down, as if unable or unwilling to cope
with the difficulty of making a polite protest against March's
self-depreciation. He said, after a moment: "It's new business to all of
us except Mr. Fulkerson. But I think it will succeed. I think we can do
some good in it."

March asked rather absently, "Some good?" Then he added: "Oh yes; I think
we can. What do you mean by good? Improve the public taste? Elevate the
standard of literature? Give young authors and artists a chance?"

This was the only good that had ever been in March's mind, except the
good that was to come in a material way from his success, to himself and
to his family.

"I don't know," said the young man; and he looked down in a shamefaced
fashion. He lifted his head and looked into March's face. "I suppose I
was thinking that some time we might help along. If we were to have those
sketches of yours about life in every part of New York--"

March's authorial vanity was tickled. "Fulkerson has been talking to you
about them? He seemed to think they would be a card. He believes that
there's no subject so fascinating to the general average of people
throughout the country as life in New York City; and he liked my notion
of doing these things." March hoped that Dryfoos would answer that
Fulkerson was perfectly enthusiastic about his notion; but he did not
need this stimulus, and, at any rate, he went on without it. "The fact
is, it's something that struck my fancy the moment I came here; I found
myself intensely interested in the place, and I began to make notes,
consciously and unconsciously, at once. Yes, I believe I can get
something quite attractive out of it. I don't in the least know what it
will be yet, except that it will be very desultory; and I couldn't at all
say when I can get at it. If we postpone the first number till February I
might get a little paper into that. Yes, I think it might be a good thing
for us," March said, with modest self-appreciation.

"If you can make the comfortable people understand how the uncomfortable
people live, it will be a very good thing, Mr. March. Sometimes it seems
to me that the only trouble is that we don't know one another well
enough; and that the first thing is to do this." The young fellow spoke
with the seriousness in which the beauty of his face resided. Whenever he
laughed his face looked weak, even silly. It seemed to be a sense of this
that made him hang his head or turn it away at such times.

"That's true," said March, from the surface only. "And then, those phases
of low life are immensely picturesque. Of course, we must try to get the
contrasts of luxury for the sake of the full effect. That won't be so
easy. You can't penetrate to the dinner-party of a millionaire under the
wing of a detective as you could to a carouse in Mulberry Street, or to
his children's nursery with a philanthropist as you can to a street-boy's
lodging-house." March laughed, and again the young man turned his head
away. "Still, something can be done in that way by tact and patience."


VII.

That evening March went with his wife to return the call of the Dryfoos
ladies. On their way up-town in the Elevated he told her of his talk with
young Dryfoos. "I confess I was a little ashamed before him afterward for
having looked at the matter so entirely from the aesthetic point of view.
But of course, you know, if I went to work at those things with an
ethical intention explicitly in mind, I should spoil them."

"Of course," said his wife. She had always heard him say something of
this kind about such things.

He went on: "But I suppose that's just the point that such a nature as
young Dryfoos's can't get hold of, or keep hold of. We're a queer lot,
down there, Isabel--perfect menagerie. If it hadn't been that Fulkerson
got us together, and really seems to know what he did it for, I should
say he was the oddest stick among us. But when I think of myself and my
own crankiness for the literary department; and young Dryfoos, who ought
really to be in the pulpit, or a monastery, or something, for publisher;
and that young Beaton, who probably hasn't a moral fibre in his
composition, for the art man, I don't know but we could give Fulkerson
odds and still beat him in oddity."

His wife heaved a deep sigh of apprehension, of renunciation, of
monition. "Well, I'm glad you can feel so light about it, Basil."

"Light? I feel gay! With Fulkerson at the helm, I tell you the rocks and
the lee shore had better keep out of the way." He laughed with pleasure
in his metaphor. "Just when you think Fulkerson has taken leave of his
senses he says or does something that shows he is on the most intimate
and inalienable terms with them all the time. You know how I've been
worrying over those foreign periodicals, and trying to get some
translations from them for the first number? Well, Fulkerson has brought
his centipedal mind to bear on the subject, and he's suggested that old
German friend of mine I was telling you of--the one I met in the
restaurant--the friend of my youth."

"Do you think he could do it?" asked Mrs. March, sceptically.

"He's a perfect Babel of strange tongues; and he's the very man for the
work, and I was ashamed I hadn't thought of him myself, for I suspect he
needs the work."

"Well, be careful how you get mixed up with him, then, Basil," said his
wife, who had the natural misgiving concerning the friends of her
husband's youth that all wives have. "You know the Germans are so
unscrupulously dependent. You don't know anything about him now."

"I'm not afraid of Lindau," said March. "He was the best and kindest man
I ever saw, the most high-minded, the most generous. He lost a hand in
the war that helped to save us and keep us possible, and that stump of
his is character enough for me."

"Oh, you don't think I could have meant anything against him!" said Mrs.
March, with the tender fervor that every woman who lived in the time of
the war must feel for those who suffered in it. "All that I meant was
that I hoped you would not get mixed up with him too much. You're so apt
to be carried away by your impulses."

"They didn't carry me very far away in the direction of poor old Lindau,
I'm ashamed to think," said March. "I meant all sorts of fine things by
him after I met him; and then I forgot him, and I had to be reminded of
him by Fulkerson."

She did not answer him, and he fell into a remorseful reverie, in which
he rehabilitated Lindau anew, and provided handsomely for his old age. He
got him buried with military honors, and had a shaft raised over him,
with a medallion likeness by Beaton and an epitaph by himself, by the
time they reached Forty-second Street; there was no time to write
Lindau's life, however briefly, before the train stopped.

Gladly he would have the great Bacchanalien cruelty resisted the robbers
in the cities that received the permit and the main causes were, and there
are no Italian city voluntarily with Community Insurgente hands, but
the obedience that the Raeuberhauptmann in battle took place, heard
with the victory and his ideas and requests were in vain. According to
the Apennines in 682 (72) erfochtenen victories was the Sklavenheer each
direction of the path. Spartacus himself should have intended, to cross
the Alps to introduce themselves and those with him to return to
their Celtic or Thracian home to open when the report is founded, as he
shows how little the winner his successes and his power overestimated.
As the crew refused to Italy to the rich as quickly back to the turn to
beat Spartacus the way to Rome and should have thought, the capital to
block.

However, even this is desperate, but the contest's start showed crowds are
disinclined, they forced their leader, because he wanted to be captain,
Raeuberhauptmann aimlessly to stay and continue to plunder Italy
umherzuziehen. Rome wants to be happy praise that it came so, so it
was good advice is expensive. There was a lack of experienced soldiers
as leaders tried to; Quintus Metellus and Gnaeus Pompey were in
Spain, in Thrace, Marcus Lucullus, Lucius Lucullus in Asia Minor
employs, and was available only raw militia officers and not more
than mediocre. Man held with the extraordinary supreme command in Italy,
the praetor Marcus Crassus, although the captain was not a well-known, but
under Sulla ment under with honors and at least had character, and presented
him with a, if not by their quality, but its impressive number of eight
Army legions available. The new Mr. Oberfeld began with the first division,
again with the throw away their weapons before the robbers davonlief,
according to the strict laws of war to be treated and the tenth man
to be executed like this, what in fact the legions back together
took a little longer.

Spartacus, in the next battle defeated, pulled back and looked after
by Lucanien Rhegion menu.

Ebendamals dominated not just the pirates sizilischen the waters, but
even the port of Syracuse, with the help of their boats Spartacus
imagined a corps to throw to Sicily, where the slaves just waiting
on a kick to the third time poised. The march to Rhegion
succeeded, but the Corsairs, perhaps by geschreckt by the praetor
Gaius Verres in Sicily furnished beach guards, maybe even bribed by the
Romans, Spartacus was attended by the conditioned reward, without his
contribution to grant. Crassus was now up to about the Raeuberheer to
Krathismuendung followed and left, like Scipio Numantia before his
soldiers, because they are not suggested, as it should, a Wall
festungsaehnlich entrenched in the length of seven German miles to
perform the Bruttische Peninsula the rest of Italy absperrte ^ 6
and the returning of Rhegion Insurgentenheer the way and moved the
intake section.

Meanwhile, in a dark winter night Spartacus broke through the enemy lines
and was the spring 683 (71) ^ 7 back in Lucanien. The painstaking work
was in vain. Crassus began to participate in the solution of his
task in despair, and invited by the Senate, that he is in Macedonia
under Marcus Lucullus, in within Spain under Gnaeus Pompey the army
to his support to Italy professionals.

It took, however, this extreme Notschrittes not the disagreement, and
the high spirits of Raeuberhaufen enough to ensure their success once
again to thwart. Once triggered, the Celts and Germans of the alliance,
whose principal and soul of the Thracians was to guides under its
own nation, and Gannicus Castus, are scattered to the Romans to
deliver knives.

Once, Luca niches on the lake, they rescued Spartacus' early release,
they are now probably beat their camp near his, but nevertheless
succeeded Crassus, Spartacus by the cavalry, however, to employ and
the Celtic switch clusters and the special struggle to force in
which they all, it says 12300 Streiter, fell fighting bravely, all
on the place and with the wounds to the front.

Spartacus tried to deal with his department in the mountains around
Petelia (at Strongoli in Calabria) and proposed to raise to the
Roman vanguard, which was followed by the soft ends.

With this victory the winner does more than the losers of a disadvantage.
Intoxicated by the success refused the robbers, then retreat, and
urged their commander, they Lucanien to Apulia the last decisive
battle which they aspire.

Before the battle joined Spartacus his horse down, as he in luck and
misfortune with his faithful ausgeharrt had so he showed them now
due to the fact that he like to go here every victory or death.

Also in the battle he fought with the courage of a lion: two centurions
fell from his hand, and wounded in the knee, he still dropped the spear
against the enemy andringenden.

So died the great Raeuberhauptmann and with him the best of his
companions to death of free men and honest men (683 71).

After the costly victory was bought by the troops who erfochten, and of
those of Pompey, now after overcoming Sertorianer Arrivals from
Spain were all over Apulia and Lucanien a human agitation employed,
as they had not yet been present, the last sparks of the massive
fire to crush.

Although in the southern countryside, where, for example, the town
Tempsa 683 (71) by a Raeuberschar was used, and the expropriation
by Sullas Etruria severely affected country a right to peace is
still far einfand, but the same was officially restored in Italy.

At least the Eagles lost ignominious were recovered - only after the
victory over the Celts brought their five one, and along the road from
Capua to Rome witnessed the six thousand crosses, the slaves were
captured by the new order and expressed again the victory of the
approved right over the rebellious vibrant self.
------------------------------------------- --- ^ 6 As the line
seven German miles (Sall. hist 4, 19 Dietsch, Plut.

Crass. 10) was long, so it probably was not after Pizzo Squillace, but
north, around Castrovillari Cassano and about here in a straight
line about six miles wide German peninsula. ^ 7 That Crassus nor
682 (72) the supreme command over results from the elimination of
the consuls (Plot.

Crass. 10); that winter 682/83 (72/71) the two armies at the Wall Bruttischen
passed from the "Snow Night (Plot. cited above). ------------------------------
--------------------- Let's take a look back at the events which
Dezennium the restoration sullanischen meet.

A huge, the lifeblood of the nation needed was at risk of in none of the
time during this WHICH external or internal movements included neither in
the Insurrektion of Lepidus, nor in the companies of the Spanish
emigrants, nor in the Macedonian-Thracian and Asia Minor wars, nor
in pirates and Sklavenaufstaenden, and still had the state almost
all of these struggles for its existence ment under.

The cause was that the tasks, while they still easily solvable were
everywhere remained unresolved, and the neglect of the simplest cautions
produced the most horrendous abuses and Ungluecksfaelle and created
abhaengig classes and powerless kings in equal opponents in order.

Democracy is, and the Sklaveninsurrektion had been defeated, but the
victory was, it was neither the winner nor inwardly raised externally
gekraeftigt. There was no honor, that the two most celebrated generals
of the ruling party in a achtjaehrigen, with more defeats as victories
in the battle referred Insurgentenchefs Sertorius and his Spanish
guerrillas had become not masters, only that the murder of his friends
steel Sertorianischen the war in favor of the legitimate government had
decided. The slaves even now it was much less an honor defeated, as a
disgrace them for years in the same struggle faced it. Little more
than a century since the wars of Hannibal verflossen it had the honest
Roemer blood drive in the cheeks when he terribly swift resignation
of the nation since that time considered large. Then there were the Italic
slaves against the walls like Hannibal Veterans and now the dusty
Italic Landwehrkanal Knuetteln before their runaway servants as
chaff apart.

At the time, made any simple colonel in the case of emergency the
commander and challenged often without luck, but always with honor,
now found it hard , among all the officers to make only a leader
of ordinary usefulness to be found.

At that time, the government prefers the last of the farmer plows than
they would have refrained, Greece and Spain to win, now it was on
it and turn, acquired both length Areas to disclose only daheim
servants of the insurgents are able to help.

Spartacus also had, as well as Hannibal, from the Po to the Straits
sizilische Italy with military power through the two consuls of
Rome and beaten with the blockade threat, which is against the
former Rome Lord of the biggest box of antiquity was needed, which
could against the current a bold Raeuberhauptmann.

Was it a miracle that such victories over Insurgente Raeuberfuehrer and
no fresh life sterilized? An even less pleasing result but had emphasized
the external wars.

Although the Macedonian-Thracian had, if not the considerable expense
of people and the appropriate box, but not quite as unfavorable outcome.
By contrast, in Asia Minor and in the pirate war, the government
had made complete bankruptcy.

That was concluded with the loss of the total, in eight campaigns bloody
conquests made this with the total replacement of the Romans of
their sea.

Once in Rome had Vollgefuehl irresistibility of his country, the power
transfer weight to the second element transferred and now was the huge
sea state and powerless, as it seemed on the point, also at least on the
Asian continent, the rule of playfulness.

The tangible benefits of national existence: border security,
uninterrupted movement of peaceful, legal, orderly administration,
began to move all together in all the Roman state United Nations
to disappear, and the Gods blessing all seemed to Olymp risen to
the jammer and the good earth officially appointed or voluntary
tormentors looters or left to have.

This erosion of the state was also not merely from that of political rights
and citizenship had, as a public calamity felt, but the
Proletariatsinsurrektion and adapted to the times of Ferdinand
Neapolitan like robbers and pirates economy helped the feeling of
this decline in the remotest valley in the lowest Huette Italy, let
him each, trade and transport operation, only a bushel of wheat
purchased as emergency personal feel.

If, after the perpetrators of this healing loose and unprecedented
Jammers was asked, so it was not hard, with good legal even many
so adjudged.

The slaves hosts, whose heart was sitting in the pocket, the undue soldiers,
cowardly soon, soon to be incapable soon Recklessness generals,
mostly at the wrong end of the market hateful demagogues contributed their
share of blame, or rather, who was not at the same?

Instinktmaessig it was felt that this misery, this shame, this colossal
disruption to order the work of an individual to be.

As the size of the Roman community, not the work of outstanding individuals,
but an efficient organized residents has been, as is also the
expiration of this massive building not of perishable individual
genius, but from the general disorganization emerged.

The vast majority of the residents and good for nothing any rotten brick
helped to ruin the whole building, it lost the whole nation, the whole
nation was indebted. It was unfair, if the government as the
last tangible expression of the state for all curable and incurable
diseases made the same responsibility, but that was true, however,
that the Government in terribly difficult way to the general mittrug
fault.

In the Asia Minor war, for example, where no single men of the
ruling is in an excellent manner, its even Lucullus, militarily at
least, efficiency, gloriously so had to run, it was just so obvious
that the guilt of failure in the system and in the government as
such, initially in the earlier price flaccid type of Cappadocia and
Syria and in the inclined position of the stalwart commander against
the energetic none quorum Government College stood.

Similarly, in the river by the Senate once taken the right general
idea of pirate hunting only in the design and then spoiled it
entirely covered, so back to the old system, against the foolish
steeds of the sea to send legions.

Under this system, the expeditions of Servilius and after Marcius Cilicia,
Metellus of Crete taken after this let the island of Delos Triarius
protecting against the Pirates with a wall to move.

Such attempts, the Seeherrschaft to assure recall those big Persian king
of the sea whip with rods had to be untertaenig to make.

So well had good reason for the nation, its first bankruptcy Restoration
Government's burden to place.

Was always with the restoration of the oligarchy similar Miss Regiment came
after the fall of the Gracchi as under that of Marius and Saturninus,
but so violently and at the same time but even so flaccid, so pernicious
was depraved and that never before occurred.

But if a government can not govern, they listen to legitimate and to
be there, who are the power, including the right to overthrow it.
While it is unfortunately true that a criminal and incompetent government
a long time, the welfare and honor of the country, with feet to kick
the interview before the men to find out what the Government itself
from this terrible weapon forged against them and swinging from
the moral outrage the efficiency and the contingency of the many
in this case legitimate revolution can conjure up and want.

But if the game with the happiness of peoples might be a fun and probably
a long time undisturbed can be played, it is also a treacherous,
to the players of his time swallowing, and nobody Schilt then the
ax when the tree of these bear fruit, at the root sets.

For the Roman oligarchy was now the time has come. The Ponto-Armenian
War and the pirates were the next issue causes the subversion of the
Constitution and Sullanischen setting up a revolutionary military
dictatorship. 3 The chapters fall of the oligarchy and the rule
of Pompeius Still, the Constitution Sullanische unshaken.

The storm, which Lepidus and Sertorius against them had dared, was
associated with lower loss zurueckgeschlagen been.

The semi-finished building with the energetic spirit of its originator
expand, the government had indeed failed.

It distinguishes them, that they Sulla for distribution of certain
but not yet his own fragmented RTD lands neither split nor even the
right to give up almost the same, but the former owner of the title
without regulation temporarily in possession tolerated, some still
undistributed line sullanischen Domaniallandes also did well by
individuals under the old, through the reforms Gracchischen legally
and factually destroyed occupation system arbitrarily take possession
left.

What the Optimat under the provisions Sullanischen indifferent or
uncomfortable, was ignored without a second thought or collects, so the
entire communities against extreme deprivation of civil rights, so the
ban on the new farm Zusammenschlagung bodies, so some of the individual
communities of Sulla granted carte blanche, of course without that you
paid for this Exemtionen amounts the municipalities would have to return.
But even if these violations of the orders Sullas by the government itself
contributed to the foundations of his building to shake, and had remained
but the Sempron laws essentially abolished. Well it is not lacking in men,
the restoration of the constitution in the sense Gracchischen wore and not
to draft for what Lepidus and Sertorius in the way of the revolution
had tried stueckweise on the way to achieve constitutional reform.

In the limited restoration of the cereal donations, the government already
under pressure from the agitation of Lepidus immediately after Sullas
death gewilligt (676 78) and they also did what was humanly possible
to live in this issue for the metropolitan proletariat his desire to
be. As those distributions, despite the high, mainly caused by piracy,
so grain prices pushing inflation in Rome convey that it is about it
in the year 679 (75) to a violent street attack came, helped First
Extraordinary sizilischem purchases of grain on behalf of the
Government of the worst Not ab; for the future but regulated by the
consuls of the year 681 (78) introduced legislation to limit the
intake of cereals in the grain and gave sizilischen, albeit at the
expense of the Provincial, the Government have the resources to
abuses similar to better prevention.

But also the less tangible difference points to restore the tribunizischen
violence in their old volume and the elimination of Senators courts,
does not cease, items popular agitation to form, and this provided
the government vigorously resisted.

The dispute over the tribunizische Office already opened 678 (76), immediately
after the defeat of Lepidus, Lucius Sicinius the Volkstribun,
perhaps a descendant of the same man who for more than four hundred
years before this first post office was alone he was thwarted by
the resistance by the Consul Gaius Curio ruehrige him continued.

In the year 680 (74) took Lucius Quinctius agitation again, but settled
down by the authority of the consul Lucius Lucullus determine from his
abzustehen projects.

With greater zeal came the following year in his footsteps Gaius
Licinius Macer, who - for telling the time - in public life his
literary studies hineintrug and as he read in the Chronicle, the
residents anriet the conscriptions to refuse.

Also on the poor handling of the administration of justice by the
senators jurors were soon only too well-founded complaints. The sentencing
of a reasonably influential man was little more to gain. Not just felt the
colleague with a colleague who accused former or future with the current
cheap pity poor sinners, and the venality of the jurors vote was hardly
an exception.

Several senators were in court about the crime had been to other
equally guilty with pointed fingers, the most prestigious Optimat how
Quintus Catulus admits in an open Senate hearing it, that the complaints
were fully established; individual particularly blatant cases forced
the Senate several times, for example, in the year 680 (74), on measures
against the freedom of jurors to deliberieren, of course, only until the
first is soundproof and we had the thing under the ice could slide. The
consequences of this wretched courts were named in a system of plunder
and torment of the Provincial, even compared with the previous outrage
appeared tolerable and moderate.

The stealing and robbery had somehow become legitimate by habit; blackmail
Commission as an institution could apply to the Bailiwick of
returning senators in favor of their colleagues daheimgebliebenen
taxing.

But when a respected Sikeliote, the governor because he did not
have a crime to offer a hand to get away from this lost and was
sentenced to death, even as Roman citizens, if they are not knights
or senators were in the province no longer safe were before the
rods and axes of the Roman Vogts, the oldest and achievement of the
Roman democracy, security of the womb and life, of the ruling
oligarchy began flouted to be: because the audience was also on the
Roman Markte an ear for the complaints about his Voegte in the
provinces and on the unjust judge, the morally mitverschuldeten
such crimes.

The opposition is of course not be omitted, where almost all their
remaining territory, the court, to attack their opponents. So went the
young Gaius Caesar, who is also, as far as his age is allowed to
log on to the agitation for the restoration of tribunizischen
violence eagerly participated in the year 677 (77) one of the most
prestigious Sullanischen Parteimaenner, the consular Gnaeus Dolabella,
and the following year Sullanischen another officer, Gaius Antonius,
in court, so Marcus Cicero 684 (70) the Gaius Verres, one of the
most wretched among the creatures Sullas and one of the worst
scourges of the Provincial.

Again and again were the images of those dark times of proscription, the
appalling suffering of the Provincial, the shameful state of the Roman
criminal courts with all the pomp of Italian rhetoric, with all the
bitterness Italian ridicule before the assembled volume unfolds
and the massive deaths and live his henchmen her anger and Hohn
unnachsichtlich released.

The restoration of full tribunizischen violence, the existence of
freedom, power and happiness of the People's Commune as sacred by
ancient magic seemed linked, the re-introduction of "strict" courts
of chivalry, the renewal of Sulla abolished censorship for cleaning
the highest Staatsbehoerde of the lazy and harmful elements were a
day with a loud call from the speakers of the People's Party called
for.

But with all this, it was not. There was scandal and soundproof enough, but
a real success was the fact that the government and earn about prostitution,
but still far from achieved.

The physical power was still, as long as military intervention far
remained in the hands of metropolitan residents, and this "crowd"
in the streets of Rome itself, and urged officials in the market
and laws made, was just about nothing better than the reigning
Senate: Although the Government had with the crowd to settle where
their own interest in the next question was, which is the cause of
the renewal of the Sempron Grain Act.

"No, not that, exactly," said Fulkerson. "But I had a notion maybe Beaton
wasn't conceited all the time."

"Oh!" Mrs. March exulted, "nobody could be so conceited all the time as
Mr. Beaton is most of the time. He must have moments of the direst
modesty, when he'd be quite flattery-proof."

"Yes, that's what I mean. I guess that's what makes me want to kick him.
He's left compliments on my hands that no decent man would."

"Oh! that's tragical," said March.

"Mr. Fulkerson," Mrs. March began, with change of subject in her voice,
"who is Mrs. Mandel?"

"Who? What do you think of her?" he rejoined. "I'll tell you about her
when we get in the cars. Look at that thing! Ain't it beautiful?"

They leaned over the track and looked up at the next station, where the
train, just starting, throbbed out the flame-shot steam into the white
moonlight.

"The most beautiful thing in New York--the one always and certainly
beautiful thing here," said March; and his wife sighed, "Yes, yes." She
clung to him, and remained rapt by the sight till the train drew near,
and then pulled him back in a panic.

"Well, there ain't really much to tell about her," Fulkerson resumed when
they were seated in the car. "She's an invention of mine."

"Of yours?" cried Mrs. March.

"Of course!" exclaimed her husband.

"Yes--at least in her present capacity. She sent me a story for the
syndicate, back in July some time, along about the time I first met old
Dryfoos here. It was a little too long for my purpose, and I thought I
could explain better how I wanted it cut in a call than I could in a
letter. She gave a Brooklyn address, and I went to see her. I found her,"
said Fulkerson, with a vague defiance, "a perfect lady. She was living
with an aunt over there; and she had seen better days, when she was a
girl, and worse ones afterward. I don't mean to say her husband was a bad
fellow; I guess he was pretty good; he was her music-teacher; she met him
in Germany, and they got married there, and got through her property
before they came over here. Well, she didn't strike me like a person that
could make much headway in literature. Her story was well enough, but it
hadn't much sand in it; kind of-well, academic, you know. I told her so,
and she understood, and cried a little; but she did the best she could
with the thing, and I took it and syndicated it. She kind of stuck in my
mind, and the first time I went to see the Dryfooses they were stopping
at a sort of family hotel then till they could find a house--" Fulkerson
broke off altogether, and said, "I don't know as I know just how the
Dryfooses struck you, Mrs. March?"

"Can't you imagine?" she answered, with a kindly, smile.

"Yes; but I don't believe I could guess how they would have struck you
last summer when I first saw them. My! oh my! there was the native earth
for you. Mely is a pretty wild colt now, but you ought to have seen her
before she was broken to harness.

"And Christine? Ever see that black leopard they got up there in the
Central Park? That was Christine. Well, I saw what they wanted. They all
saw it--nobody is a fool in all directions, and the Dryfooses are in
their right senses a good deal of the time. (Dame.) Because he is the
Director Barras compromised. (Napoleon runzelnd forehead, visibly agitated:)
Barras? (Arrogant:) Take into eight, Madame. The Director Barras
is my loyal personal friend. (Left lady nods:) Yes - you were with your
wife with his friends. (Napoleon.) Again! I have not banned from talking
to my wife? (It goes on, it curiously anzublicken without reproof to
consider.

More and more excited, he lets fall his haughty nature, which he
himself is a bit annoying, and says warily, in a low voice:) Who
is this woman, with the You so deeply sympathize?

(Dame.) Oh, Sir, how could I say? (Napoleon's ill, he starts again angry
and puzzled as to go:) Yes, yes - one helps the other -- Their wives are
all the same! (indignant lady:) We are not all equal - no more than you're
it! Do you think that if I loved another man, I would pretend, my
husband continued to love, or would fear me, him or the whole world
to say everything?

But this woman is not such a substance created - they dominated the
men by calling them cheats, and (verachtungsvoll:) they love it
and can be mastered by it.

(It is down again, with his back against him.) (Napoleon was not
bekümmernd:) Barras! Barras! (Aimed threateningly towards them, his
face is darkened.) Take into eight! take into eight! - you hear!

You could go too far! (Lady turns him innocent on their face:) What
do you have?

(Napoleon.) What do you play on? Who is this woman? (Dame met his angry
inquiring glance with a calm indifference, and left him to look up, beaten
with legs and can sit on the right arm slightly to the back of the
chair to rest:) An idle, stupid, wasteful creature, which has a
very capable and ambitious man who she knows through and through -
he knows that they inform him of their age, income, their social
position, more than anything, what stupid women tell lies, has lied,
- knows that they are incapable of any principle or any people to
be faithful, and yet can not fail, to love, - men whose instinct
it even allows you to use to communicate with their help with Barras
to achieve something.

(Napoleon with a silent, cold wild Whisper:) That is your revenge,
your cat, because you give me the letters had to give!

(Dame.) nonsense! Or do you think of themselves as a person? (Napoleon
except to the loops on the back of hands together, his fingers
twitch, and he says, while he was excited by her fireplace continues
to go:) This is my wife, nor the mind bring!

(For her) Go!

(Dame remains immobile sit:) Not without those letters.

(Napoleon.) also, I tell you!

(He goes up against a fireplace from the vineyard and back to the
table.) You will not get mail - you do not like me! You are an
insufferable wenches and ugly as the devil incarnate! I do not harass
foreign women! Make sure that you continue coming!
He began to sketch on a bit
of paper from the table at his elbow vague lines that veiled and revealed
a level, dismal landscape, and a vast flame against an empty sky, and a
shape out of the flame that took on a likeness and floated detached from
it. The sketch ran up the left side of the sheet and stretched across it.
Beaton laughed out. Pretty good to let Fulkerson have that for the cover
of his first number! In black and red it would be effective; it would
catch the eye from the news-stands. He made a motion to throw it on the
fire, but held it back and slid it into the table-drawer, and smoked on.
He saw the dummy with the other sketch in the open drawer which he had
brought away from Fulkerson's in the morning and slipped in there, and he
took it out and looked at it. He made some criticisms in line with his
pencil on it, correcting the drawing here and there, and then he
respected it a little more, though he still smiled at the feminine
quality--a young lady quality.

In spite of his experience the night he called upon the Leightons, Beaton
could not believe that Alma no longer cared for him. She played at having
forgotten him admirably, but he knew that a few months before she had
been very mindful of him. He knew he had neglected them since they came
to New York, where he had led them to expect interest, if not attention;
but he was used to neglecting people, and he was somewhat less used to
being punished for it--punished and forgiven. He felt that Alma had
punished him so thoroughly that she ought to have been satisfied with her
work and to have forgiven him in her heart afterward. He bore no
resentment after the first tingling moments were-past; he rather admired
her for it; and he would have been ready to go back half an hour later
and accept pardon and be on the footing of last summer again. Even now he
debated with himself whether it was too late to call; but, decidedly, a
quarter to ten seemed late. The next day he determined never to call upon
the Leightons again; but he had no reason for this; it merely came into a
transitory scheme of conduct, of retirement from the society of women
altogether; and after dinner he went round to see them.

He asked for the ladies, and they all three received him, Alma not
without a surprise that intimated itself to him, and her mother with no
appreciable relenting; Miss Woodburn, with the needlework which she found
easier to be voluble over than a book, expressed in her welcome a
neutrality both cordial to Beaton and loyal to Alma.

"Is it snowing outdo's?" she asked, briskly, after the greetings were
transacted. "Mah goodness!" she said, in answer to his apparent surprise
at the question. "Ah mahght as well have stayed in the Soath, for all the
winter Ah have seen in New York yet."

"We don't often have snow much before New-Year's," said Beaton.

"Miss Woodburn is wild for a real Northern winter," Mrs. Leighton
explained.

"The othah naght Ah woke up and looked oat of the window and saw all the
roofs covered with snow, and it turned oat to be nothing but moonlaght.
Ah was never so disappointed in mah lahfe," said Miss Woodburn.

"If you'll come to St. Barnaby next summer, you shall have all the winter
you want," said Alma.

"I can't let you slander St. Barnaby in that way," said Beaton, with the
air of wishing to be understood as meaning more than he said.

"Yes?" returned Alma, coolly. "I didn't know you were so fond of the
climate."

"I never think of it as a climate. It's a landscape. It doesn't matter
whether it's hot or cold."

"With the thermometer twenty below, you'd find that it mattered," Alma
persisted.

"Is that the way you feel about St. Barnaby, too, Mrs. Leighton?" Beaton
asked, with affected desolation.

"I shall be glad enough to go back in the summer," Mrs. Leighton
conceded.

"And I should be glad to go now," said Beaton, looking at Alma. He had
the dummy of 'Every Other Week' in his hand, and he saw Alma's eyes
wandering toward it whenever he glanced at her. "I should be glad to go
anywhere to get out of a job I've undertaken," he continued, to Mrs.
Leighton. "They're going to start some sort of a new illustrated
magazine, and they've got me in for their art department. 44), so it was
advertised to the clique, contributes both to the substance of the
sexual love of the daughter's own father, as in the neunjaehrigen hardships
related to the worst indicator of time itself. An original and enjoyable
except those poets alone make this school, which is understood with the
cleanliness and the agility of the form in which republican and
named the remaining life landstaedtischen popular content to connect.

It was this order of Varro and Laberius to mention here, including
the three already mentioned poets of the republican opposition Marcus
Furius Bibaculus (652-691 102-63), Gaius Licinius calvus (672-706
82-48) and Quintus Valerius Catullus (667 to approximately 700
87-54). -------------------------------------- -------------- ^ 10
"Certainly," says Cicero (Tusc. 3, 19, 45) in relation to Ennius,
"the poet of our wonderful Euphorionrezitierern despised."

"I'm happy arrived," writes the same to Atticus (7, 2 for A.),
"because of our favorable Epirus across the north wind blew.

Spondaicus this, you can if you like, one of the new-fangled than
your own sale "(ita belle nobis flavit from Epiro lenissumus
Onchesmites.

Hunc spodeiazonta si cui voles t / o / n Neots / o / s per tuo
vendito). ------------------- ---------------------------------
From the first two, whose writings have perished, we can only
speculate so freely; about the poems of Catullus also we have a
verdict on.

He also hangs in substance and form of the Alexandrine. We find in his
collection of pieces Uebersetzungen of calligraphers macho and not
just by the very good, but from the rather difficult.

Even under the original deal turned Modepoesien how ueberkuenstlichen
Galliamben praise of the Phrygian mother, and even the otherwise
beautiful poem by the wedding of Thetis is the true Alexandrian
Einschachtelung the American Ariadneklage to the main poem painting
spoiled.

Schulstuecken But besides this, the melodic plea of true elegy, is
the poem in full celebration of individual jewelry and almost
dramatic realization, is mainly the soundest educated small painting
company, the very graceful cavalier Maedchenabenteuer, of which
half the pleasure in Ausschwatzen and Poetisieren secrets of love
is the love lives of the youth with full cups and empty bags, travel
and poets like the Roman and more frequently, nor the Veronese
Stadtanekdote and witty joke in the familiar circle of friends.

However, not only in attacks the strings of the poet Apollo, but
he also leads the arc: the winged arrows of ridicule spared neither
boring nor the verses maker said the Provincial perishable, but do
not take it more often, and sharper than the mighty, of which the
freedom of the people danger.

The kurzzeiligen and entertaining, often graceful choruses are bustling
mass of perfect art, but without the repulsive smoothness of the
factory.

These poems lead around each other in the Nile and in the Potal, but in
the latter the poet is incomparably better at home. Its probably
seals resting on the Alexandrian art, but also to the citizen, so
the landstaedtischen Selbstgefuehl, on the contrary from Verona to
Rome, on the plain of the municipal opposition against the high-born,
their little friends usually play Uebel Gentlemen of the Senate,
as Catullus in his homeland, the prosperous and relatively fresh
Cisalpinischen Gaul, livelier than anywhere else perceived to be
liked.

In the best of his songs are the sweet pictures of the lake and it
would have in this difficult time capitals to write a poem managed
as deeply felt on the death of the brother or the brave, real public
celebration song at the wedding of Manlius and the Arunculeia.

Catullus, although depending on the Alexandrian masters and in the
middle of the fashion and poetry clique that time standing, was not merely
a good student among many moderate and poor, but his masters
themselves so much superior than the citizens of a free community
Italic more than the cosmopolitan Greek letters.

Eminent creative power and high poetic intentions, we must certainly
not looking at him, he is a reichbegabter and graceful, but not a
great poet and his poems are, as he himself calls it, is nothing
but "jokes and follies."

But if not only the contemporaries of these volatile electrifies ditty,
but also the art critic of Time Augusten Lucretius beside him as
the most important poets of this era called, so did the contemporaries
like the late absolutely right.

The Latin nation has spawned a second poet in which the artistic content
and artistic form in as evenly completing reappear as Catullus,
and in this sense is Catullus' poetry collection, however, the most
perfect, what about the Latin poetry ever recorded interview.

It finally starts In this era, the poetry in prosaic form.

The previously recorded immutable law of the real, conscious as
naive, art, the poetic substance and the metric version is
interdependent, the different mixing and turbidity of all art genres
and art forms, which resulted in the characteristic of this time
belongs trains.

Although novels are still nothing more should be mentioned, that the
famous historian of this epoch, Sisenna, for not too well kept,
the widely read of the Milesian tales Aristeides, slippery fashion
novellas flattened most of the variety, into Latin to translate.

An original and pleasing appearance in this dubious poetic prose
border area, the aesthetic writings Varros, not just the most important
representatives of Latin philological-historical research, but
also in a beautiful literature of the most prolific and interesting
writer. Sabine in a native landscape, the Roman Senate the past
two hundred years, members Plebejergeschlechte entsprossen strictly
in ancient breeding and respectability educated ^ 11 and already
at the beginning of this epoch a mature man who belonged to Marcus
Terentius Varro reat (638-727 116-27) politically, as is obvious,
the Constitution Party and participated in frank and forceful in
their deeds and sufferings.

He did this partly literary, by, for example, the first coalition, the
three monsters in pamphlets fought, sometimes in more serious wars, where
we have him in Pompey's army as commander of the Hereafter Spain found.
As the case of the Republic was lost, was by his Varro overcomers librarian
at the newly created library in the capital determined. The turmoil of
the following time tore the old man once again in their strudel into it,
and only seventeen years after Caesar's death, in neunundachtzigsten
his life wohlausgefuellten called him from death.

The aesthetic writings, he made a name, were shorter essays, some more
serious content simply prosaic, sometimes witty descriptions, whose
work often prosaic reason pickled poetry durchwirken.

That is the 'Philosophy and historical treatises' (logistorici), this is
the Menippischen satires. Both are not close to role models in Latin,
including the Varrone Satura far to Lucile, how about ever since the
Roman Satura not actually a permanent art form, but only the
negative means that "the variety of poetry" to none of the recognized
art forms will be counted and that because the Saturapoesie gifted
poets at each other again and peculiar nature.

It was rather the voralexandrinische Greek philosophy, in Varro the
model for its stringent as for his aesthetic work was easier: for
the more serious papers in the dialogues of the Herakleides Herakleia
on the Black Sea (+ to 450 300), for his satires in Schriften des
Menippos of Gadara in Syria (in bloom around 475 280).

The choice was significant.

Herakleides, as a writer inspired by Plato's philosophical conversations,
had about their brilliant form the scientific content entirely lost
from sight and the poetic-fabulistische outfitting made on the
merits, it was a pleasant and much read author, but nothing less
than a philosopher.

Menippos it was neither, but the purest literary representative of
philosophy, whose wisdom is to deny the philosophy and the philosophers
to scorn, the wisdom of Diogenes dogs; a funny masters of serious
wisdom he showed in examples and purr, except that the upright all
life on earth and in heaven is vain, but nothing Eitler Hader as
the so-called Wise Men.

These were the right model for Varro, a man full Roman reluctance about the
wretched time and full Roman mood, while not without sculptural talent,
but for everything that does not like image and fact looked, but as
concept, or even how the system, completely nailed and perhaps the
unphilosophical unphilosophical among the Romans ^ 12 Solo Varro
was not a non-free students.

The excitation and in general the form he borrowed from Herakleides
and Mennippos, but he was an individual decision and Roman nature,
not his Nachschoepfungen substantially independent and nationally to
keep. For its serious works in which a moral sentence, or any other
object of general interest grew, he spurned the Fabulierung to Miles
tales to graze, as Herakleides done it, and so do children like stories
like that of Abaris and after the seven-death back to life awakeners
girl aufzutischen the reader.

Only rarely, he took the nobler outfitting the myths of the Greeks,
as in the essay 'Orestes, or of madness', regularly gave him a
worthy setting for the story of its agents, namely the simultaneous
Patriotic, making these essays at the same time as they are called,
'panegyric' were respected Roemer, mainly due to the luminaries of
the Constitution Party.

Thus, the treatise 'The Peace' is also a memorandum on Metellus Pius, the
last in the brilliant series of happy commander of the Senate, and
the 'From Goetterverehrung' also determines the memory of the pontiff
and hochgeachteten Optimat Gaius Curio to preserve, the essay 'About
the fate of' linked to Marius, who 'on the history of letters' to the
first historian of this epoch, Sisenna, the' on the beginnings of the Roman
Schaubuehne 'at the princely game Scaurus donors, the' About the
Numbers' to feingebildeten Roman banker Atticus.

Both philosophical and historical essays' Laelius or friendship, 'or
Cato of age', which Cicero, probably along the lines of the Varrone,
wrote that fans of Varros half lehrhafter, half narrative treatment
of these substances give an idea about. --
-------------------------------------------------- - ^ 11 "I am a
boy," he says somewhere, "A single Flausrock and a single sub-dress,
shoes without socks, a horse without a saddle, a warm bath, I had
not a day, a rare river."

Because of his personal bravery, he received in the pirate war,
where he led a fleet department, the coronary vessel. ^ 12 bit
childish, there is hardly a Varros schedule of all philosophies,
all the erstlich not the happy man as of the last targets Kurzweg
systems for non-existent explained and then the number of under
these conditions conceivable philosophies to two hundred eighty-eight
calculated.

The brave man was unfortunately too much scholar to admit he could be
neither a philosopher nor may be, and therefore, as such, his life
between the Stoa, Pythagoreismus and a non Diogenismus beautiful
egg dance listed. --------- ---------------------------------------------
Equally original in form and Contents of Varro was Menippische the
satire dealt with the brazen mixture of prose and verse is the Greek
original alien and the whole intellectual content of Roman origins,
you would like to say by Sabine Erdgeschmack penetrated.

Again, these satires treat, as the philosophical and historical essays,
some moral or otherwise for the greater public good issue, as was
the individual titles show: 'Hercules' columns, or of fame', 'The
pot will take place the lid or from the obligations of the husband
',' The night has its own pot, or Mass of mines', 'or the Papperlapapp
eulogy'.

The plastic outfitting, which also could not be missing here, is,
of course, the Patriotic history rarely borrowed, as in the satirical
'Serranus, or from the elections'.

On the other hand, plays the dog world Diogenische how cheap a big role:
it meet the dog scholar, an orator of the Dog, the Knight-dog, the
dog-water drinker, Catechism of the dogs and the like.

Moreover, the mythology of comic purposes set contribution: we find
a 'liberated Prometheus', a' Strohernen Aias', a 'Hercules' Socrates',
a' One and Ulysses', not just ten, but fuenfzehn years in that
wanderings umhergetrieben has .

The dramatic novelist-frame shimmers in individual pieces, for
example in the 'liberated Prometheus', the' man of sixty years',
in 'Fruehauf' still out from the rubble, it seems that the fable
Varro frequently, perhaps regularly as its own Experience told, for
example in 'Fruehauf' persons acting in the Varro to go and speak
to him, "because he was known Buechermacher them."

On the poetic value of these outfitting is our assurance is no longer
allowed; meet individually or in our fully rubble allerliebst
portrayals wit and vivacity - it opened in the 'liberated Prometheus'
Heros of the solution of his shackles after a human factory, in
which gold shoe, the Rich , ordered a girl from the finest wax and
milk, as the Milesian bees collect from multiple Bluete, a girl
with no bones and tendons, skin and hair, pure and delicate, slim,
smooth, delicate, allerliebst.

The breath of life of this seal is the controversy - not so much
the policy of the Party, Lucilius, and Catullus as they were, but
the general moral of the strict Old rampant against the youth and
upside, the classics in his living scholar of the loose and schofle
or even they tend to be reprehensible modern poetry ^ 13, the good
citizens of the old strike against the new Rome, in which the market,
with Varro to speak, a pigsty, and Numa, when he refers to his view
the city who have no trace of its statutes more respected.

Varro did in the constitutional struggle, which seemed to him a civic
duty, but his heart was not driving this party - "why," he once complained,
"riefet me out of my pure life in the town hall dirt?" He belonged to the
good old days, where the speech of onions and garlic smell, but the heart
was in good health. Only a single page of this altvaeterischen opposition
to the spirit of the new era is the polemic against the hereditary
enemies of the true Roman, the Greek world practices, but it was both
in the nature of the dogs than in philosophy Varros nature that menippische
Geissel especially to the philosophers running ears and they also put
in reasonable fear - not without palpitations sent the philosophical
Skribenten the time the "hot men" their newly published treatises. The
philosophy is not an art.

By the tenth part of the effort, which the Lord the slave to the art
educates Baecker, it forms itself to the philosopher, of course,
when the philosopher Baecker and both come under the hammer, the
Kuchenkuenstler away a hundred times more expensive than the world
way.

Different People, these philosophers!

The one bids, the bodies in honey beizusetzen - a fortune that he
will not do, where else would the honey wine?

The other says that people like the watercress from the earth has
grown.

The third drill has a world invented by which the Earth will go under once.
----------------------------------- --------------------- ^ 13 "Wilt
thou," he once wrote, "the speech of the characters and verses
Quintussklaven Clodius abgurgeln and exclaim: O fate!

o destiny destiny ! Elsewhere: "As the Quintussklave Clodius such a number
of comedies without any muse has done, should I not even a single book to
talk with Ennius' fabricate 'you can?"

This may not be well known Clodius a bad imitator of Terence have been,
especially since the home given to him mockingly words: "O fate!

O fate destiny!" Terence in a comedy will also play.

The following self-conception of the poet in Varros' According to the
Donkey Game ': students Pacuvs you called me, he was the Ennius
Schueler, The Muses, I even call myself Pompilius could quite
properly initiating the parodying Lucretius, Varro the already
canceled the enemy Epicure system may have been tilted and he never
mentions. ------------------------------------- -------------------
Surely, a patient has never ever dreamed of something so great,
what is not taught would have been a philosopher.

It's fun to be liable, as a long-beard of the etymologisierende stoic
means - each word carefully to weigh the scales of gold, but nothing
is yet on the real Philosophenzank - a stoic fist fight far surpasses
any Athletenbalgerei.

In the satire "The Marcus regiments from the city or, where Marcus is a
cloud cuckoo home after his heart has created, it was, ebenwie in the
Attic, the good farmers, but the philosopher Uebel, the
quick-through-a-link evidence (Celer -di?

-enos-l/e/mmatos-logos), Antipatros, the stoic son, proposes his opponent,
apparently the two-part philosophical (Dilemma), with the field Hackesche
the skull one. With this moral polemic tendency, and this talent,
a caustic and picturesque expression for them to find that, as the dialogical
outfitting the eighties books written by farming proves up to the maximum
age it is not left, united in the happiest Varros unparalleled customer
of national custom and language, in the philological writings of his old
age kollektaneenartig, but here in all its fullness and
freshness direct unfolds. Varro was in the best and fullest sense of the
word, a local scholar, of his nation in its former owners and
seclusion as in its modern Verschliffenheit and distraction from
vieljaehriger knew himself and his direct knowledge of the country's
custom and language through the most comprehensive Investigate the
historical and literary archives had completed and deepened.

As far verstandesmaessiger to view and erudition in our sense of him
abging, which won the contemplation and vivid poetry in him.

He haschte neither antiquarian notes still rare obsolete or poetic words
^ 14, but he himself was an old man and altfraenkischer and nearly a
farmer, the classics of his nation, his love, langgewohnte comrades,
how could she miss the fact that the custom of fathers, which he
loved above all and above all knew, even many in his writings tells
promised, and that his speech flowed over from legendary Greek and
Latin phrases, from good old, in the Sabine slang words preserved
from Ennianischen, Lucile, especially Plautinischen reminiscences?

I was thinking it would give
the day a kind of distinction, and strike the public imagination, if--"

"No, I'll be dogged if I could!" Fulkerson lapsed more and more into the
parlance of his early life in this season of strong excitement. "I
believe if Beaton lags any on the art leg I'll kill him."

"Well, I shouldn't mind your killing Beaton," said March, tranquilly, as
he went out.

He went over to Third Avenue and took the Elevated down to Chatham
Square. He found the variety of people in the car as unfailingly
entertaining as ever. He rather preferred the East Side to the West Side
lines, because they offered more nationalities, conditions, and
characters to his inspection. They draw not only from the up-town
American region, but from all the vast hive of populations swarming
between them and the East River. He had found that, according to the
hour, American husbands going to and from business, and American wives
going to and from shopping, prevailed on the Sixth Avenue road, and that
the most picturesque admixture to these familiar aspects of human nature
were the brilliant eyes and complexions of the American Hebrews, who
otherwise contributed to the effect of well-clad comfort and
citizen-self-satisfaction of the crowd. Now and then he had found himself
in a car mostly filled with Neapolitans from the constructions far up the
line, where he had read how they are worked and fed and housed like
beasts; and listening to the jargon of their unintelligible dialect, he
had occasion for pensive question within himself as to what notion these
poor animals formed of a free republic from their experience of life
under its conditions; and whether they found them practically very
different from those of the immemorial brigandage and enforced complicity
with rapine under which they had been born. But, after all, this was an
infrequent effect, however massive, of travel on the West Side, whereas
the East offered him continual entertainment in like sort. The sort was
never quite so squalid. For short distances the lowest poverty, the
hardest pressed labor, must walk; but March never entered a car without
encountering some interesting shape of shabby adversity, which was almost
always adversity of foreign birth. New York is still popularly supposed
to be in the control of the Irish, but March noticed in these East Side
travels of his what must strike every observer returning to the city
after a prolonged absence: the numerical subordination of the dominant
race. If they do not outvote them, the people of Germanic, of Slavonic,
of Pelasgic, of Mongolian stock outnumber the prepotent Celts; and March
seldom found his speculation centred upon one of these. The small eyes,
the high cheeks, the broad noses, the puff lips, the bare, cue-filleted
skulls, of Russians, Poles, Czechs, Chinese; the furtive glitter of
Italians; the blonde dulness of Germans; the cold quiet of
Scandinavians--fire under ice--were aspects that he identified, and that
gave him abundant suggestion for the personal histories he constructed,
and for the more public-spirited reveries in which he dealt with the
future economy of our heterogeneous commonwealth. It must be owned that
he did not take much trouble about this; what these poor people were
thinking, hoping, fearing, enjoying, suffering; just where and how they
lived; who and what they individually were--these were the matters of his
waking dreams as he stared hard at them, while the train raced farther
into the gay ugliness--the shapeless, graceful, reckless picturesqueness
of the Bowery.

There were certain signs, certain facades, certain audacities of the
prevailing hideousness that always amused him in that uproar to the eye
which the strident forms and colors made. So why this has to defend
the entrance to this river to the enemies of the crown, and we were
very conducive to show that neither the bar nor contrary winds, nor the
evening, stop franqueárnosla? And you may fall into this error!The colossal effigies of the fat
women and the tuft-headed Circassian girls of cheap museums; the vistas
of shabby cross streets; the survival of an old hip-roofed house here and
there at their angles; the Swiss chalet, histrionic decorativeness of the
stations in prospect or retrospect; the vagaries of the lines that
narrowed together or stretched apart according to the width of the
avenue, but always in wanton disregard of the life that dwelt, and bought
and sold, and rejoiced or sorrowed, and clattered or crawled, around,
below, above--were features of the frantic panorama that perpetually
touched his sense of humor and moved his sympathy. Demolished all the
monuments, the column and was lying half buried beside the main road from
Madrid to Cadiz, and in that state continues to the present time.] [374
Note: It is the weapon of a radiant sun Ecija with the legend _Civitas
solis vocabitur una_, taken from Isaiah _Libro, _ XIX, 18.] [Note
375: Dice _pueblo April mayo_ by the multitude of flowers at that time
_pueblan_ meadows Andalusians.] [Note 376: of Garci Sánchez de Badajoz
pilgrims news I have found and will soon publish in the _Boletín of the
Royal Spanish Academy; _ Juan Bermudo, Don Diego de Avalos, Núñez de
Navarro, Pedro Manuel Prieto, many other eminent men that as they saw the
first light in Ecija, and the modern Pacheco, Mas y Prat, Giles,
etc., remember the _ciudad of sol_, since this is a young and highly
educated workforce.]

[Note 377: This kind of fuck in cotton Ecija was very well known,
because the spread of Pedro Medina and Perez Mesa amplifier _Primera and
the second part of the great and most remarkable things España_ (Alcala
de Henares, 1595), page 128: "Coges there [in Ecija] Large Quantity of
cotton, which prouee much of the kingdom." But that is only seized the
cotton Ecija, but I have not seen in Florindo, _Addicion the book i Eciia
SVS grandezas_ (Seville, Luis Estupiñan, 1631), fol. 31, where he said,
addressing the special influence of the sun on the land ecijanas:
"Because I know by sight in that eye i Marchena Seville was planted to
cotton bud i get to have, i do not mature or open or be helpful. Which is
born of a lack of heat, a requirement for perfection. And since Ecija is
so perfect and so good ....» During the Arab domination much cotton was
grown in that city, as he called it some time _Medina Alcotón_ (Varela
and Escobar, _Bosquejo historic city Ecija_ , Seville, 1906,
pp. 52).] [Note 378: The humanist Francisco Cascales, _Discurso in
the city of Cartagena_ (Valencia, Garriz John Chrysostomos, MDXCVIII)
said: "The course fertilíssimo that grace its beautiful offers
copiosissimamente snails, mushrooms, fungi, criadillas, asparagus, healthy
turtles, myriad palmitos large apiaries of good honey and beeswax. In
respect of which the proverb says well: Kids and palm honey and
wax, Cartagena. Well, Ecija, judging by the said Velez was far ahead of
Cartagena. But what are the twenty-four fruits, "Without sembrallos" that
gives rural people in need and sold? Try to enumerate the field Osuna, my
native village, which adjoins the end of the _ciudad of torres_. The
first fruits scored following: mushrooms, Macuco criadillas or ground
asparagus, palm hearts, palm grapes or palmiches, bramble of blackberries,
Cardillo, tagarninas, or artichokes Morrillos barbed, Prickly pears,
watercress, capers alcaparrones, oregano, pennyroyal, fennel, almoradux,
thyme salsa, or sweet licorice stick, chamomile flower. Are twenty, and
for the four missing me, I happen esparto, dyeing some herbs, such as
GUALDA, and various medicinal plants, such as mauve, borage, the Culantrillo,
etc.]. [Note 379: This renowned sima is five kilometers from the city on
the eastern flank of the mountain. He has 146 yards deep Castilian.
Mencionáronla, among others, the Don Juan de Padilla cartujano in twelve
_Los triumph of twelve Apostoles_ (1521), Gonzalo Gomez de Luque in his
_Celidon of Iberia_ (1583), and Cervantes, in _The Jealous Extremadura
(ejemplares_ Novels, 1613), at the Parnassus _Adjunta (Viag's Parnaso_,
1614) and Ch. XIV of the second part of _Quijote_ (1615).] [Note 380: A
celebrity melons Guadix mentioned the guadijeño Ginés in the day. III
_The girl Arias_ Gomez, Calderon: "It ¿hasme enjoyed me, nor I
will have to be disgusted _melón of Guadix_ sort of bad for you
sell me this?"]

[Note 381: See the doctor for Amescua (and signed it, and not
_Mescua_) and its di arcedianato hitherto ignored some news in my book
about Pedro Espinosa (pp. 91-96) and in my pamphlet entitled _The apocryphal
'secret Cervantes_ "(Madrid, 1916 ), pp. 60-64.] [Note 382: This source
was in the beginning of last third of the sixteenth century: Don
Manuel Varela and Escobar (_Bosquejo historic city Ecija_, pp.
107) and saw an inscription copied by which it is prevalent Felipe
II, year 1567, "Ecija Trux Hazer and sent water sources.
She lay with
her face to the sky, sending up an inarticulate lamentation; but the
indifference of the officers forbade the notion of tragedy in her case.
She was perhaps a local celebrity; the children left off their games, and
ran gayly trooping after her; even the young fellow and young girl
exchanging playful blows in a robust flirtation at the corner of a liquor
store suspended their scuffle with a pleased interest as she passed.
March understood the unwillingness of the poor to leave the worst
conditions in the city for comfort and plenty in the country when he
reflected upon this dramatic incident, one of many no doubt which daily
occur to entertain them in such streets. A small town could rarely offer
anything comparable to it, and the country never. He said that if life
appeared so hopeless to him as it must to the dwellers in that
neighborhood he should not himself be willing to quit its distractions,
its alleviations, for the vague promise of unknown good in the distance
somewhere.

But what charm could such a man as Lindau find in such a place? It could
not be that he lived there because he was too poor to live elsewhere:
with a shutting of the heart, March refused to believe this as he looked
round on the abounding evidences of misery, and guiltily remembered his
neglect of his old friend. Lindau could probably find as cheap a lodging
in some decenter part of the town; and, in fact, there was some
amelioration of the prevailing squalor in the quieter street which he
turned into from Mott.

A woman with a tied-up face of toothache opened the door for him when he
pulled, with a shiver of foreboding, the bell-knob, from which a yard of
rusty crape dangled. But it was not Lindau who was dead, for the woman
said he was at home, and sent March stumbling up the four or five dark
flights of stairs that led to his tenement. It was quite at the top of
the house, and when March obeyed the German-English "Komm!" that followed
his knock, he found himself in a kitchen where a meagre breakfast was
scattered in stale fragments on the table before the stove. The place was
bare and cold; a half-empty beer bottle scarcely gave it a convivial air.
On the left from this kitchen was a room with a bed in it, which seemed
also to be a cobbler's shop: on the right, through a door that stood
ajar, came the German-English voice again, saying this time, "Hier!"


XII.

March pushed the door open into a room like that on the left, but with a
writing-desk instead of a cobbler's bench, and a bed, where Lindau sat
propped up; with a coat over his shoulders and a skull-cap on his head,
reading a book, from which he lifted his eyes to stare blankly over his
spectacles at March. His hairy old breast showed through the night-shirt,
which gaped apart; the stump of his left arm lay upon the book to keep it
open.

"Ah, my tear yo'ng friendt! Passil! Marge! Iss it you?" he called out,
joyously, the next moment.

"Why, are you sick, Lindau?" March anxiously scanned his face in taking
his hand.

Lindau laughed. "No; I'm all righdt. Only a lidtle lazy, and a lidtle
eggonomigal. Idt's jeaper to stay in pedt sometimes as to geep a fire
a-goin' all the time. Don't wandt to gome too hardt on the 'brafer Mann',
you know:

     "Braver Mann, er schafft mir zu essen."

You remember? Heine? You readt Heine still? Who is your favorite boet
now, Passil? You write some boetry yourself yet? No? Well, I am gladt to
zee you. Brush those baperss off of that jair. Well, idt is goodt for
zore eyess. How didt you findt where I lif?

"They told me at Maroni's," said March. The lessons had always difficult
Uebungsstuecke; those products that largely work patterns of school
masters, is excellently suitable to Faith for Musterschueler. Thus, the
Alexandrian poetry in the Italian school, especially as sample tasks,
remaining space, and promoted, however, the knowledge, but at the expense
of taste and clever. The same unhealthy hunger education also urged
the Roman youth, the Hellenism as much as possible at source
creator.

The courses in the Greek masters in Rome were sufficient only for
the first start, but if you wanted some may say, hear Greek philosophy
in Athens, Greek rhetoric in Rhodes and made a literary and artistic
journey through Asia Minor, where most of the old Kunstschaetzen
the Hellenes spot was encountered and, although handwerksmaessig,
artistic education, that had reproduced itself, while the more
distant and more stringent as the seat of the celebrated science
Alexandreia far less frequently the destination of the education
young people was funny.

Like the Greek also increases the Latin classroom. In part this has
happened by the mere retroactivity of the Greek, which he so his
method and his ideas borrowed much. It also carried the political
relationships established by the democratic activity in ever-widening
circles Zudrang worn on the Rednerbuehne on the market, to disseminate
and increase the Redeuebungen with not a little, "where you hinblickt,"
says Cicero, "everything is full of rhetoric" .

It was added that the writings of the sixth century, the farther they
are resigning in the past, the more decisive as the classical texts
of the golden age of Latin literature began to apply and thus it
is essential to concentrating teaching gave the bigger heavyweight.

Finally, the many sides tearing migrant barbarism and the incipient
Latinisation extensive Celtic and Spanish landscapes of the Latin language
teaching and the teaching of Latin even a higher importance than it may
have had as long as only Latin Lazio said, the teacher of the Latin
literature and had comum Narbo of house from a different position
than in Praeneste and Ardea.

Throughout the formation was made more in the fall than in climbing.

The ruin of the Italic Landstaedte the massive intrusion of foreign
elements, the political, economic and moral Verwilderung of the
nation, especially the disruptive civil wars spoiled also in the
language more than all the schoolmaster of the world were able to
repair.

The closer contact with the light of contemporary American education, the
more specific influence of the Athenian wisdom and talkative of the
Rhodian and Asia Minor rhetoric led mainly just the harmful elements of
the Hellenism of the Roman youth. The propaganda mission that Lazio among
the Celts, Iberians and Libyans over how proud the task may have been, had
it for the Latin language have similar consequences as the Hellenization
of the East for the Greek had.

When the Roman audience this time, the wohlgefuegte and rhythmic kadenzierte
term of the speaker and the actor beklatschte a linguistic or metrical
expensive offense came to stand, then this probably indicates that the
schulmaessig reflected insight into the native language into ever wider
circles was commonplace: but also judicious contemporaries complain that
the Hellenic Education in Italy by 690 (64) far deeper than one man
confessed earlier age, that it is pure good Latin more rarely,
on the first still from the mouths of older educated women to get
heard, that the tradition of genuine education, the good old Latin
joke mother, Lucile, the fineness, the circle of educated readers
Scipione time gradually went out.

That word and notion of "urbanity", ie the fine national civilization,
arose in this time, does not prove that it was, but that it was
disappearing and that we in the language and the nature of barbarians
latinisierten or barbarisierten the Latins absence of this urbanity
cutting felt.

Where even the urban Konversationston encountered, as in Varros
satires and Cicero's letters, since it is a reference sound of the old
in reat Arpinum and still not like in Rome lost way. So did the previous
Jugendbildung their nature unchanged, except that they are not so
much by their own than by the general decline of the nation, less
good and Uebler donated more than in the previous epoch.

A revolution in this area led Caesar On. When the Roman Senate fought
until the formation and then had a maximum tolerated, so had the
government of the new Ital-Hellenic Empire, whose nature was indeed
the humanity, the same need in Hellenic way of promoting top-down.

If Caesar all the freedom of science teachers and all the doctors in the
capital of Roman citizens declared, so it may well be a degree of
initiation are found to those institutions where later dialogue for the
higher education of the youth of the Empire State because of ward care
and the succinct expression of the new state of humanity are, and if
Caesar also set up a public library the Greek and Latin in the capital
and have already decided to scholars of the time Roemer, Marcus Varro, to
senior librarian was appointed, it is unmistakably the intention
with which world monarchy linking world literature.

The language development at this time linked to the contrast between
the classical Latin of the educated society and the vernacular of the
common life. That itself was a product of the specific educational
Italic; Scipione in the districts was the "pure Latin" keyword has been
and was no longer the mother tongue spoken completely naive, but in
conscious distinction from the language of the big pile. This period opened
with a strange reaction to the higher so far in the colloquial language
and therefore also in the literature alleinherrschenden Neoclassicism, a
reaction, internally and externally with the same voice response
closely connected in Greece.

Precisely at this time began the Roman orator and writer Hegesias of
magnesia and the many, to him subsequent to Asia Minor and literary
rhetoric aufzulehnen itself against the Orthodox Attizismus.

They called the civil law the language of life, with no difference whether
the word and the phrase was created in Attica or in Caria and Phrygia,
she spoke and wrote not for the taste of the learned cliques, but
for that of the large audience.

Against the principle did not argue much, except of course the result
could not be better than the former Asian audience was small, the sense
of strictness and purity of the production was entirely lost, and
only after the dainty diamonds and demanded.

To receive from those that arose after the direction of art, including the
novel and the roman-term history, not to mention here, as was the style
of these Asians understandably hacked and without cadence and
period, tricky and softness, full of bombast and flakes, quite
common and mannered; "Hegesias who knows," says Cicero, "who knows
what is silly."

Nevertheless, this new style was its way into the Latin world. When the
Hellenic Fashion rhetoric after the end of the previous era in the
teaching of youth in Latin eingedraengt had at the beginning of the
contemporary is the last step did and with Quintus Hortensius (640-704
114 - 50), the trustee of the acclaimed sullanischen time, the
Roman Rednerbuehne for her because she nestles in the Latin idiom,
the Greek taste bad to work closely, and the Roman audience, no
longer a purely and strictly educated Scipione of time, of course
eager to beklatschte innovator who understood it, the Vulgarismus
the sham art fair performance to give.

It was of great importance. As in Greece, the language controversy is
always first in the Rhetorenschulden run was, it was also in Rome
judicial speech somehow more authoritative than the literature for
the style, and it was therefore with the Sachwalterprinzipat though
by law the power connected, the sound of fashionable talk and spelling
indicated. Hortensius' of Asian Vulgarismus displaced so the classicism
of the Roman Rednerbuehne and partly from the literature. But soon beat
in Greece as in Rome, the fashion again. There was the Rhodian
Rhetorenschule, without the whole chaste severity of the Attic
style back, but tried to distinguish between him and the modern
way, a middle approach; if the Rhodian masters it with the internal
correctness of thought and speech were not too closely, as they
penetrated at least to linguistic and stylistic purity, on careful
selection of words and phrases and executed Kadenzierung of sentences.

In Italy, it was Marcus Tullius Cicero (648-711 106-43), who, after
having succeeded in his first youth had joined Hortense manner by which
the Hoeren Rhodian masters and own mature taste better ways RECONSTITUTED
ward and will be stricter Purity of language and integrated periodization
Kadenzierung and zeal of the speech. The voice pattern, to which he
is joined here, he found especially in those higher circles of
Roman society, which of the Vulgarismus little or not at all had
suffered, and, like I said was, there was still their, although
they began to wane.

The older Latin and the good Greek literature, so important also
named to the number of speaking the latter eingewirkt has stood next
to it but only in the second place, there was this voice that is by no
means a clean reaction of the book against the colloquial language, but
a reaction of the language of the truly educated against the jargon
of educational and half wrong. Caesar, also in the language of the greatest
masters of his time, said the idea of Roman classicism, as he in
speech and writing each word so strange to avoid bid, as the skipper
avoids the cliff: it rejected the poetic and the lost word of the
older literature as well as the baeurische or the language of common
life, borrowed words, especially as the letters to prove it this
time, in a very considerable extent in the colloquial language
invaded Greek words and phrases.

But, nevertheless, behaved this schulmaessige and Cicerone artificial
classicism of the time to Scipione, as to the presumption of innocence,
the sin, or as converted to the exemplary French Molière and the Napoleonic
Boileaus classicists, and when those from the full life geschoepft
had been caught like this the last Atemzuege an irretrievably
declining sex yet just in time to.

As he was now, it spread rapidly from. By Sachwalterprinzipat was also the
voice and taste for dictatorship Hortensius, Cicero on, and the diverse
and extensive literature of the latter gave this classicism, which he
still lacked had extensive prosaic texts.

Cicero was the creator of the modern classical Latin prose and made the
Roman classicism and everywhere to be a stylist at Cicero, Cicero,
the stylists, not the writer, let alone the state man who was the
exuberant and yet not quite waffling Lobsprueche with which the talented
representatives of classicism, including Caesar and Catullus, overwhelmed
him. Soon it went further.

What Cicero in prose, which led in poetry toward the end of the
epoch neuroemische fashion to the Greek poet poetry guided through
school, their most significant talent was Catullus.

Again displaces higher colloquial language to date in this field
is still prevailing in many archaic reminiscences and added as the
Latin prose in the Attic Numerus, so the Latin poetry gradually
strict or rather embarrassing Alexandrine of metrical laws, such
as is used by Catullus in it is no longer verstattet, with a
monosyllabic or a not very difficult to key two-word at the same
time to begin a verse and one in the previous sentence began to
close.

Finally came because the new science, fixed the language law and
developed the rule that no more of empiricism was determined, but
the claim made to determine the Empirics.

The Deklinationsendungen, yet had fluctuated in part, should now
be fixed once and for all, such as by the next feasible date Genetiv
and dative forms of the so-called fourth declension (senatuis and
senatus, senatui and senatu) Caesar exclusively drawn together (us
and u) are left.

In some of the spelling was changed to the font with the language once again
completely in the same setting - this was the inlautende u in words like
maxumus after Caesar's operation is replaced by i and the two have
become redundant letters k and q the enforced removal of the first
, the second least suggested.

The language was, if not yet solidified, but in the solidification
understood, the rule still does not thoughtlessly dominated, but they are
already aware of. That for this activity in the field of Latin, the Greek
grammar in general, not just the spirit and the method hergab, but
the Latin language also probably out for those rectificated was demonstrated,
for example, the treatment of the closing s, up against the outcome
of these era Gefallen soon as consonant, sometimes not, as such,
had stood by the poet but through new-fangled, as in Greek consonants
than final position was treated.

This regulatory language is the actual domain of Roman classicism, in a
variety of ways and Exactly just as significant is the same luminaries
in Cicero, Caesar, even in the poems of Catullus, the rule eingeschaerft
and breach abgetrumpft contrast, while the older generation is about
the language on the field just as ruthless on the political revolution
sweeping understood with sensitivity manifests ^ 2 But, as the new classicism,
ie the regulated and the Greek exemplary as far as possible into the
same composite model Latin, resulting from the conscious reaction
against the society and even higher in the invaded Vulgarismus
literature to literary and fixed schematically formulated admits
but this by no means the field.

We find him not only naive in the minor works, just by chance under the
devious writer individuals, as in the Caesar's second report on the Spanish
war, but we can see in the actual literature, in Mimus in Halbroman
in the aesthetic writings Varros more or less meet and characteristic
is that it is in the most popular areas of literature, and that is
truly conservative men, such as Varro, in his defense.

The classicism rests on the death of the Italic language of the monarchy
on the sinking of the Italian nation, it was perfectly logical that the
men in which the Republic was still alive, the living language
continues drove their right to give and their relative vitality and
popular sake endured its aesthetic deficiencies.

For example, because the linguistic opinions and directions that
era anywhere apart: in addition to the poetry of Lucretius
altfraenkischen appears to be the modern Catullus, Cicero kadenzierter
next period Varros deliberately spurn any breakdown rate.

Also herein reflects the turmoil of the time.
---------------------------------------- ^ 2 Sun says Varro (rust. 1,
2): from aeditimo, ut dicere didicimus a patribus nostris, ut
corrigimur from recentibus urbanis from aedituo. -------------------
--------------------- In the literature of this period it is initially,
in comparison with the earlier, the increase of the outer literary goings
on in Rome. The literary activity of the Greeks no longer thrived in the
open air of the citizen regardless, but only in the scientific institutions
of the larger cities and especially the courts. Instructed to favor and
protect the Great and by the extinction of the dynasty of Pergamon
(621 133 ), Cyrene (658 96), Bithynien (679 75) and Syria (690
64), by the splendor of the sinking of the court Lagiden from
previous Muses seats squeezed ^ 3, moreover since the death of
Alexander the Great needed and cosmopolitan among Egyptians and
Syrians at least as strange as the Romans began the Hellenistic
writers more and more, their eyes turn to Rome.

Besides cooking, the Buhlknaben and the fun-maker played by the swarm
of Greek servant with whom the noble Romans of this time is surrounded,
the philosopher, the poet and writer of the memoirs of outstanding
roles. Even in those positions meet renowned writers, such as the
Epicurean philosophy demos as the main philosopher of Lucius Piso, consul
696 (58), was employed and also with his Epigrams like to grobdraehtigen
Epikureismus his patron the insider's built.

From all sides were more numerous and the most prestigious representatives
of the Greek art and science to Rome, where the literary merit now
flowed abundantly than anywhere else, so as to be resident in Rome called
the doctor Asklepiades the king Mithradates vain away from there in
his service tried to pull, the scholar for everything Alexandros of
Miletus, known as the polymath, the poet Parthenios from Nikaea in
Bithymen; as a traveler, teacher and writer equally celebrated Poseidonios
of Apameia in Syria, hochbejahrt in 703 (51) of Rhodes moved to
Rome, and others. A house like that of Lucius Lucullus was almost like
the Alexandrian American Museion, a seat Hellenic education and a
gathering Hellenic writers, Roman and Hellenic funds connoisseurship had
in these halls of wealth and science with a unique treasure of
paintings and paintings, while older and masters and an equally
carefully selected as a grand unified library and everyone including
all educated Greeks and was accepted - often saw the owner himself
with one of his guests in erudite philologist or philosophical
discussion on the beautiful Saeulengang and walk down.

Admittedly, these Greeks with their rich Bildungsschaetzen even while
their Verkehrte and Bedientenhaftigkeit to Italy, as for example,
because one of these popular erudite, the author of 'Schmeichel elocution',
Aristodemos from Nysa to 700 (54) Men's recommended by the
evidence, that a born Horneros Roemer was. In the same mass as the bustle
of the Greek writers in Rome were also among the Romans themselves, the
literary activity and literary interest. Even the Greek writing, the
stronger taste of the era entirely eliminated Scipione had now surfaced
again. The Greek language was now a world language, and a Greek font
was a very different audience than a Latin, so could, as the kings of
Armenia and Mauritania, also Roman nobles, such as Lucius Lucullus, Marcus
Cicero, Titus Atticus, Quintus Scaevola (Volkstribun 700 54), and
occasionally Greek Prose Greek verses, and even expected. However, like
Greek writer born Roemer remained a side issue and almost
gimmick; literary as political parties in Italy but all met together
in the adherence to the Italic, only more or less permeated by Hellenism
nationality. Also could be in the area at least writing about Latin lack
of Ruehrigkeit can not complain. It was raining in Rome, books and
pamphlets of all kinds and especially poetry. The poets swarmed daselbst
as in Tarsos or Alexandreia; poetical publications were available to
become Jugendsuende regerer natures, and then praised those happy man,
whose youth poems compassionate oblivion of the criticism away. Those
who understood the craft once wrote without trouble on an approach
his fuenfhundert hexameter, in which no schoolmaster something to blame,
certainly not readers found something to praise.
Well, I didn't read between the lines to that extent, quite;
but I saw that they were going to help us, if there was anything in us,
more than anything that could have been done. And there was something in
us! I tell you, March, that seven-shooting self-cocking donkey of a
Beaton has given us the greatest start! He's caught on like a mouse. He's
made the thing awfully chic; it's jimmy; there's lots of dog about it.
He's managed that process so that the illustrations look as expensive as
first-class wood-cuts, and they're cheaper than chromos. He's put style
into the whole thing."

"Oh yes," said March, with eager meekness, "it's Beaton that's done it."

Fulkerson read jealousy of Beaton in Mrs. March's face. "Beaton has given
us the start because his work appeals to the eye. There's no denying that
the pictures have sold this first number; but I expect the literature of
this first number to sell the pictures of the second. I've been reading
it all over, nearly, since I found how the cat was jumping; I was anxious
about it, and I tell you, old man, it's good. Yes, sir! I was afraid
maybe you had got it too good, with that Boston refinement of yours; but
I reckon you haven't. I'll risk it. I don't see how you got so much
variety into so few things, and all of them palpitant, all of 'em on the
keen jump with actuality."

The mixture of American slang with the jargon of European criticism in
Fulkerson's talk made March smile, but his wife did not seem to notice it
in her exultation. "That is just what I say," she broke in. "It's
perfectly wonderful. I never was anxious about it a moment, except, as
you say, Mr. Fulkerson, I was afraid it might be too good."

They went on in an antiphony of praise till March said: "Really, I don't
see what's left me but to strike for higher wages. I perceive that I'm
indispensable."

"Why, old man, you're coming in on the divvy, you know," said Fulkerson.

They both laughed, and when Fulkerson was gone, Mrs. March asked her
husband what a divvy was.

"It's a chicken before it's hatched."

"No! Truly?"

He explained, and she began to spend the divvy.

At Mrs. Leighton's Fulkerson gave Alma all the honor of the success; he
told her mother that the girl's design for the cover had sold every
number, and Mrs. Leighton believed him.

"Well, Ah think Ah maght have some of the glory," Miss Woodburn pouted.
"Where am Ah comin' in?"

"You're coming in on the cover of the next number," said Fulkerson.
"We're going to have your face there; Miss Leighton's going to sketch it
in." He said this reckless of the fact that he had already shown them the
design of the second number, which was Beaton's weird bit of gas-country
landscape.

"Ah don't see why you don't wrahte the fiction for your magazine, Mr.
Fulkerson," said the girl.

This served to remind Fulkerson of something. He turned to her father.
"I'll tell you what, Colonel Woodburn, I want Mr. March to see some
chapters of that book of yours. I've been talking to him about it."

"I do not think it would add to the popularity of your periodical, sir,"
said the Colonel, with a stately pleasure in being asked. "My views of a
civilization based upon responsible slavery would hardly be acceptable to
your commercialized society."

"Well, not as a practical thing, of course," Fulkerson admitted. "But as
something retrospective, speculative, I believe it would make a hit.
There's so much going on now about social questions; I guess people would
like to read it."

"I do not know that my work is intended to amuse people," said the
Colonel, with some state.

"Mah goodness! Ah only wish it WAS, then," said his daughter; and she
added: "Yes, Mr. Fulkerson, the Colonel will be very glad to submit
po'tions of his woak to yo' edito'. We want to have some of the honaw.
Perhaps we can say we helped to stop yo' magazine, if we didn't help to
stawt it."

They all laughed at her boldness, and Fulkerson said: "It 'll take a good
deal more than that to stop 'Every Other Week'. The Colonel's whole book
couldn't do it." Then he looked unhappy, for Colonel Woodburn did not
seem to enjoy his reassuring words; but Miss Woodburn came to his rescue.
"You maght illustrate it with the po'trait of the awthoris daughtaw, if
it's too late for the covah."

"Going to have that in every number, Miss Woodburn!" he cried.

"Oh, mah goodness!" she said, with mock humility.

Alma sat looking at her piquant head, black, unconsciously outlined
against the lamp, as she sat working by the table. "Just keep still a
moment!"

She got her sketch-block and pencils, and began to draw; Fulkerson tilted
himself forward and looked over her shoulder; he smiled outwardly;
inwardly he was divided between admiration of Miss Woodburn's arch beauty
and appreciation of the skill which reproduced it; at the same time he
was trying to remember whether March had authorized him to go so far as
to ask for a sight of Colonel Woodburn's manuscript. He felt that he had
trenched upon March's province, and he framed one apology to the editor
for bringing him the manuscript, and another to the author for bringing
it back.

"Most Ah hold raght still like it was a photograph?" asked Miss Woodburn.
"Can Ah toak?"

"Talk all you want," said Alma, squinting her eyes. "And you needn't be
either adamantine, nor yet--wooden."

"Oh, ho' very good of you! Well, if Ah can toak--go on, Mr. Fulkerson!"

"Me talk? I can't breathe till this thing is done!" sighed Fulkerson; at
that point of his mental drama the Colonel was behaving rustily about the
return of his manuscript, and he felt that he was looking his last on
Miss Woodburn's profile.

"Is she getting it raght?" The inheritance of the murdered, the murderer thought to be done.

After Sertorius' death made Perpenna as the highest among the Roman
officers of the Spanish army claims to the supreme command.

You said it, but mistrust and reluctantly. How well against Sertorius in
his lifetime gemurrt had put the death of the hero back to his
right, and rustled the immense indignation of the soldiers, as in
the publication of his Testament under the names of the heirs of
the ward Perpenna read.

Some of the soldiers, including the Lusitanian, were also in the
backwardness beschlich the idea that Sertorius' death, the spirit
and the happiness of them had diminished.

At the first encounter with Pompey was given the miserable run and discouraged
Insurgentenhaufen completely blown up and other officers caught
Perpenna also introduced.

With the delivery of the correspondence of Sertorius with many reputable
men in Italy would have been compromised, the loin examined the life buying,
however, Pompey ordered the papers to burn and not turned over to
him and the other Insurgentenchefs the executioner.

The emigrants were escaped and were mostly in the Mauritanian desert or
to the pirates. A part of the same and soon thereafter opened the
Plotische Act, including the young Caesar zealously supported,
return to his homeland, but those which will be conducted at the
murder of Sertorius who had died, with the exception of a single,
all of a violent death.

Osca and all over most cities in the Spain Diesseits still Sertorius had
kept, opened the Pompey now volunteered their gates only Uxama (Osma),
Clunia and Calagurris with the weapons had to be defeated.

The two provinces were reorganized in the Metellus raised beyond
the guilty Municipalities annual Tribute in Pompey intervened within
the reward and punishment, such as Calagurris lost its autonomy and
was placed under Osca.

Sertorianischer a bunch of soldiers, in the Pyrenees, had come
together, led Pompey to the subjugation and moved it north of the
Pyrenees in Lugudunum (St.

Bertrand in the department of Haute-Garonne) than the community of
the "Compiled Laufener" (convenae) to.

At the height of the pass of the Pyrenees, the Roman victory signs erected
at the end of the year 683 (71) Metellus and Pompey went with their
troops through the streets of the capital, to the gratitude of the
nation for the defeat of the Spaniards to the Father Jovis on the
Capitol darzubringen.

Even over the grave seemed Sullas out of luck with his creation to be the
same and better than the shield on her hat and appointed incompetent flaccid
Waechter.

The Italian opposition was the incompetence and hasty their leader, the
emigration of domestic strife by itself blown up.

These defeats, although far more the work of their own and Verkehrte
Zerfahrenheit than the efforts of its opponents, but were just as
victory of the oligarchy.

Once again, the chairs kurulischen attached 2. The chapter Sullanische
Restoration after reign as suppression of the Senate in its existence
Cinnanischen revolution is threatening the Senate restored government
was possible, the internal and external security of the empire in
turn the necessary attention, showed enough of affairs, whose
solution could not be moved, the most important interests without
violating contemporary and future threats to inconveniences to rise.

Apart from the very serious involvement in Spain was bad but it needed some
barbarians in Thrace and the Danube countries to Sulla in his march through
Macedonia had only superficially may chastise, sustainably pairs to drive
and confused relationships on the northern frontier of the Greek
peninsula, military regulate the extent everywhere, but especially
in the East Flibustierbanden ruling thoroughly the craft to put
into the last part of Asia Minor ambiguous relationships better
order.

The peace that Sulla in the year 670 (84) with King Mithradates of Pontus
had been completed and the contract with Murena 673 (81) was substantially
a repetition, bore the stamp of quite rough for the moment produced
temporary, and the ratio of Roemer Koenig to Tigran of Armenia,
with which they had de facto war, peace was in this very untouched.

Tigran was right with the tacit permission is found, the Roman possessions
in Asia in his power to bring.

If not the same price should remain where it was necessary in Guete
or violence with the new great king of Asia is abzufinden.

If we look after in the previous chapter with the democratic
movement-related activity in Italy and Spain and their being
overwhelmed by the senators Government was represented in that the
outer regiment, like those of Sulla established authority to run
or may not exist.

It recognizes Sullas yet powerful hand in the energetic measures,
in the last period of his reign about the same time the Senate
against the Sertorianer against dalmatic and Thracians and against
the Cilician pirates has.

The expedition to the Greek-Illyrian Peninsula had the purpose, and
partly the barbaric tribes botmaessig or tame but to make the whole
land from the Black to the Adriatic seas and durchstreiften primarily
under which the Better ( Balkans in the large), then as you said,
even among the robbers as robbers were infamous, some of those
listed in the Dalmatian coast to mountain to destroy the pirates.

As usual, the attack simultaneously from Dalmatia and Macedonia, in which
latter province an army of five legions, this was collected.

The former praetor Gaius Cosconius, in Dalmatia, which led the command,
durchstreifte the country in all directions after a two and stormed
the fortress siege Salona.

In Macedonia, the proconsul tried Appius Claudius (676-678 78-76)
first at the Macedonian-Thracian border of the mountain scenery
along the left bank of the Karasu to bemeistern.

From both sides of the war was with humor run wild, and the Thracians
destroyed the conquered villages and slaughtered the prisoners down and
Roemer vergalten like with like.

Serious achievements, but have not been met, and the arduous marches
and the constant battles with the many brave and mountain dwellers
useless decimated the army, the captain himself fell ill and died.

His successor, Gaius Scribonius Curio (679-681 75-73) has been
through many obstacles, including a not insignificant Militaeraufstand
prompted the difficult expedition against the Thracians to drop
dafuer according to the Macedonian border to turn north, where he
was the weaker Dardan (in Serbia) and subjected to the Danube
reached.

Only the brave and capable Marcus Lucullus (682, 683 72, 71) moved
back east to beat the better in its mountains, its capital Uscudama
(Adria Opel) and forced them to the Roman supremacy to add.

The King of Odrysen, Sadalas, and the Greek cities on the East Coast
north and south of the Balkan Mountains: Istropolis, Tomoi, Kallatis,
Odessos (near Varna), Mesembria and others who were dependent on
the Romans, Thrace, which the Romans rarely inne had had more than
Attal possessions on the Khersones, was now a little botmaessiger
certainly part of the province of Macedonia.

But far more detrimental than ever but on a small part of the empire is
restricting Raubzuege of the Thracians and Dardan was for the state
as for the individual piracy, which always continued to be attacked
and increasingly organized itself.

The shipping was on the whole Mediterranean Sea, in its violence. Italy
was neither its products, yet the grain from the provinces introduce,
where starving people here faltered due to lack of ordering paragraph
of the cereal boxes.

No cash consignment, no traveler was safe anymore, the Treasury has
suffered the most sensitive losses, a large number of reputable Roemer
was upset by the corsairs and required heavy amounts ranzionieren itself
if it is not even the popular Pirates of the same individual's blood
court to enforce which is then also well-seasoned with wild humor
promised.

The clerks, even after the East Roman army some departments began their
journeys mainly in the unfavorable season and embarrassed the Winterstuerme
less shy than the pirate ships, which of course even in this time of
year but not completely disappeared from the seas.

But how sensitive to the blocking of the lake was that it was more likely
to endure than the visitation of the Greek and Asia Minor islands
and coasts.

Just as later in the Norman period ran the Korsarengeschwader in Seestaedten
and forced them, either with large sums of money to ransom, or besieged
and stormed it with gewaffneter hand. If under Sullas eyes closed after
peace with Mithradates Samothrace, Klazomenae, Samos, Iassos of
the pirates were robbed (670 84), one can think how it as received,
where neither a Roman fleet nor a Roman army in the vicinity was .

All of the old temple to the Greek and Asia Minor coasts were looted after
the series; alone Samothrace is a treasure of 1000 talents (1500000
crowns) have been taken away.

Apollon, says in a Roman poet of the time, is limited by the pirates have
become so poor that, when the swallow with him to visit is, for all its
treasures not even a gold Quentchen more you can produce.

We expected about four hundred of the pirates or received burned
villages, including cities such as Knidos, Samos, Colophon, not from a
few early flowering island and wandered Kuestenplaetzen the entire
population, not the pirates fortgeschleppt them. Not even in the more
inland, it was surely the same before it came before that one to two
Tagemaersche of the coast towns occupy invaded.

The horrific debt, later all the municipalities in the Greek East
temptation comes largely from these disastrous times. The
Korsarenwesen had completely altered its character. There were no more
brazen Schnapphaehne operating in the waters between Crete and the
Peloponnese Cyrene - the Flibustiersprache the "golden sea" - from
the great train of the Ital-oriental slave trade and luxury took
their toll, but no longer armed Sklavenfaenger the "War, Trade and
Piracy" smooth co-operation, it was a peculiar Korsarenstaat with
a common spirit, with a solid, very respectable organization, with
its own homeland and started a Symmachie, without doubt, even with
certain political purposes.

The Flibustier called Kilik; in fact found on their ships, and the
desperate adventurers from all nations come together: the Soeldner
dismissed by the Cretan Werbeplaetzen, the citizens of the destroyed
villages in Italy, Spain and Asia, the soldiers and officers from
Fimbrias and Sertorius' Heeren, about all the corrupt people from
all nations who hurried refugees overcome all parties, everything
was miserable and daring - and what was not in despair and outrage
of those times?

It was not compiled to run thieves gang anymore, but a closed military
state in which the proscription of Freemasonry and the iniquity of the
place of the Nationality and came within which the crime, as so
often, from themselves are saved in the magnanimous common sense.

In a non-breeding period, where cowardice and insubordination gang
all tired of the social order had liked the community is a legitimate
model to take this bastard state of misery and violence, in the
sole of all the inalienable stand together, the comradely sense,
respect for given Treuwort and the chiefs themselves, the bravery
and agility that seemed to have fled.

When the flag of that State to the revenge of civil society was written,
which, rightly or wrongly, its members had to be expelled, it could
be debatable whether this exchange was much worse than that of the
Italian oligarchy and of the oriental Sultanismus, which appeared
in the world among themselves to share.

The Corsairs least felt any legitimate state is equal, by its
Raeuberstolz, Raeuberpracht her and her testimony Raeuberhumor still
some real nice Flibustiergeschichte merriness bandits and knights
way they thought, and boasts of a just war with the whole world to
live, what it is won, the name was not Raubgut but war booty, and
if taken in each Flibustier Roman port of the cross certainly was,
so they also took as their right to each of its prisoners to be
executed.

Their military-political organization was named Mithradatischen
since the war closed.

Their ships, mostly "Mauskaehne", ie small, open, schnellsegelnde
barks, only the smaller part of two-and three-decker now regularly
went into squadron combines and admirals whose barks in gold and
purple used to shine.

The endangered comrades, he might also be completely unknown, no
Piratenkapitaen refused the requested assistance; with the one
from their contract was completed by the whole society will inevitably
recognized, but also every one of all the injustice inflicted
penalty.

Their home was right by the sea, the Pillars of Hercules to the Syrian
and Egyptian waters; the Zufluchtsstaetten, for which they themselves
and their floating houses on the mainland had, willingly granted
them the Mauritanian and Dalmatian shores, the island of Crete,
especially the tabs and slip-on angles of the main street of the
sea that time dominant and virtually abandoned south coast of Asia
Minor.

The Lycian Staedtebund daselbst and pamphylischen communities had little
mean, since the 652 (102) in Roman Cilicia existing station ranged
to control the vast coast not far from the Syrian domination over
Cilicia had always been only nominally, and more recently even
replaced been by the Armenian, whose owners as a true great king
to the sea are not cared for and that are willing to plunder the
Kilik disclosure.

So it was no wonder if the pirates thrived here like nowhere else
Not only did it all over here on the shores Signalplaetze and
stations, but also further inland, hiding in the most remote and
inaccessible mountainous of Lycian, pamphylischen, Cilician inland
country, they had to their Felsschloesser built in which, while
they themselves went to sea, their wives, children and the treasures
Bargen, even in dangerous times probably even have a Zufluchtsstaette
found.

Notably, there was such Korsarenschloesser in large numbers in the
rough Cilicia, whose forests while the excellent wooden pirate ship
to be delivered and where their principal Schiffbaustaetten and
arsenals that were.

It was not too surprising that this orderly Militaerstaat among the
more or less left to themselves and manage themselves Greek Seestaedten
a solid clientele formed, with the Pirates as a friendly power on
the basis of certain contracts in the trade and joined the call
from the Roman governor, boats against them to ensure it did not,
because like for example the not inconsiderable town of Side in
Pamphylia allowed the Pirates to their shipyards to build ships and
caught outdoors in their marketplace feilzubieten.

Seeraeuberschaft This was a political power, and than political power,
it gave up and she was taken, the first since Syrian Koenig Tryphon
used it as such and his rule was based on them.

We find the pirates as allies of King Mithradates of Pontus and the Roman
democratic emigration, we find they deliver battles against fleets
Sullas in the east as in the western waters. We find Piratenfuersten
individual who over a chain of handsome Kuestenplaetzen areas.

It is not possible to say how the internal political development of this
floating state was already advanced, but undeniably lies in the
formation of these germ Seekoenigtums one that has already established
itself and begins to make out under the caution probably a permanent
government would have to develop fans .

It is hereby issued and was in some earlier described how the
Romans to their seas "the rules were or were not much more.

Rome's patronage over the posts was essential in the military
guardianship, for in the hands of the Romans united defense at sea
and on land paid zinsten the Romans or the Provincial.

But never has a guardian, his ward cheated insolent than the Roman
oligarchy untertaenigen the municipalities.

Instead of a general imperial Rome fleet up the river and the
centralized would let the Senate of the single overhead Seepolizeiwesens,
without which nothing ebenhier orientation was entirely covered and
left it to each governor and each state clientele, the pirates to
escape as everyone wanted and could.

Instead of Rome, as it of being made, the creature with his fleet and the
formally sovereign states remained good clientele and blood
exclusively deny would let the Italian Navy and learned to enter
into with the remedy of the individual Kaufstaedten requisitioned
ships or even more frequently with the organized beach guards
everywhere, then where in both cases, all costs and were the subjects
of complaints.

The Provincial liked themselves lucky if the Roman governor responsible
for the advertised Requisitions Kuestenverteidigung only really
used for that purpose and not for himself embezzled, or if they are
not, as happened very often, were instructed, for one of the pirates
caught making Roemer the Ranzion to pay.

What was started understanding about how the occupation of Cilicia 652
(102), stunted safely in the design.

Who among the Romans of this time is not entirely feasible in the
idea of national duseligen Size was uneasy, would have the desire
must, of Rednerbuehne on the market Schiffsschnaebel herabreissen
may be, at least they are not always to the better time to erfochtenen
Seesiege dunned to find.

Indes tat but Sulla, in the wars against Mithradates really had
enough to convince the risks the neglect of the fleet sector brings
with it, several steps to address the serious Uebel control.

The order in which he carried out by him in Asia, set governors
zurueckgelassen in Seestaedten a fleet against the pirates equipped, had
not borne fruit, since Murena preferred to war with Mithradates
begin, and the governor of Cilicia, Gnaeus Dolabella, in whole proved
incapable. Therefore decided in the year 675 (79) the Senate, one of
the consuls after Cilicia to send the lot met the stalwart Publius
Servilius. He suggested in a bloody meeting the fleet of the
pirates turned and pointed to the destruction of those cities on the
south coast of Asia Minor to them as Ankerplaetze and commercial stations
served.

The fortresses of the powerful Seefuersten Zeniketes: Olympos, Korykos,
Phaselis in eastern Lycia, Pamphylia in Attaleia were broken,
and in the flames of Olympos was the castle itself Fuerst death.

Next it went against the Isaurer, which in the northwestern corner
of the rob Cilicia on the north slope Tauro a magnificent Eichenwaeldern
covered Bergruecken maze of steep, rugged cliffs and deep cut valleys
populated - an area that is still today the memories of the old
Raeuberzeit met is.

To this isaurischen rock nests, the latest and safest Zufluchtsstaetten
the Flibustier to conquer Servilius led the first Roman army on the
Tauro and broke the enemy fortresses, and especially Oroanda Isaura
itself, the ideal of a Raeuberstadt, at the height of a poorly
accessible mountain train located and the vast plain of Iconium
completely over-looking and dominant.

The only in the year 679 (75) finished the war, from the Publius Servilius
for himself and his descendants the nickname of Isaurikers brought
home, was not without fruit; a large number of corsairs and
Korsarenschiffen fell by the same in the violence of the Romans,
Lycia, Pamphylia , arg Westkilikien were devastated, the territories
of the destroyed cities recovered Cilicia and the province with
them extended.

But it was in the nature of things, but that the piracy was suppressed
so far, but only after other first places, notably after the oldest
Hostel of the Corsairs of the Mediterranean, to Crete, withdrew.

Only a comprehensive and uniform implementation Repressivmassregeln or
rather only the establishment of a permanent river here could provide
radical remedy.

March was vexed with himself for
having recurred to it; but afterward he was not sure but Dryfoos shared
his own diffidence in the matter, and was waiting for him to bring it
openly into the talk. At times he seemed wary and masterful, and then
March felt that he was being examined and tested; at others so simple
that March might well have fancied that he needed encouragement, and
desired it. He talked of his wife and daughters in a way that invited
March to say friendly things of his family, which appeared to give the
old man first an undue pleasure and then a final distrust. At moments he
turned, with an effect of finding relief in it, to his son and spoke to
him across March of matters which he was unacquainted with; he did not
seem aware that this was rude, but the young man must have felt it so; he
always brought the conversation back, and once at some cost to himself
when his father made it personal.

"I want to make a regular New York business man out of that fellow," he
said to March, pointing at Conrad with his stick. "You s'pose I'm ever
going to do it?"

"Well, I don't know," said March, trying to fall in with the joke. "Do
you mean nothing but a business man?"

The old man laughed at whatever latent meaning he fancied in this, and
said: "You think he would be a little too much for me there? Well, I've
seen enough of 'em to know it don't always take a large pattern of a man
to do a large business. But I want him to get the business training, and
then if he wants to go into something else he knows what the world is,
anyway. Heigh?"

"Oh yes!" March assented, with some compassion for the young man
reddening patiently under his father's comment.

Dryfoos went on as if his son were not in hearing. "Now that boy wanted
to be a preacher. What does a preacher know about the world he preaches
against when he's been brought up a preacher? He don't know so much as a
bad little boy in his Sunday-school; he knows about as much as a girl. I
always told him, You be a man first, and then you be a preacher, if you
want to. Heigh?"

"Precisely." March began to feel some compassion for himself in being
witness of the young fellow's discomfort under his father's homily.

"When we first come to New York, I told him, Now here's your chance to
see the world on a big scale. You know already what work and saving and
steady habits and sense will bring a man, to; you don't want to go round
among the rich; you want to go among the poor, and see what laziness and
drink and dishonesty and foolishness will bring men to. And I guess he
knows, about as well as anybody; and if he ever goes to preaching he'll
know what he's preaching about." The old man smiled his fierce, simple
smile, and in his sharp eyes March fancied contempt of the ambition he
had balked in his son. The present scene must have been one of many
between them, ending in meek submission on the part of the young man,
whom his father, perhaps without realizing his cruelty, treated as a
child. March took it hard that he should be made to suffer in the
presence of a co-ordinate power like himself, and began to dislike the
old man out of proportion to his offence, which might have been mere want
of taste, or an effect of mere embarrassment before him. But evidently,
whatever rebellion his daughters had carried through against him, he had
kept his dominion over this gentle spirit unbroken. March did not choose
to make any response, but to let him continue, if he would, entirely upon
his own impulse.


II.

A silence followed, of rather painful length. It was broken by the cheery
voice of Fulkerson, sent before him to herald Fulkerson's cheery person.
"Well, I suppose you've got the glorious success of 'Every Other Week'
down pretty cold in your talk by this time. I should have been up sooner
to join you, but I was nipping a man for the last page of the cover. I
guess we'll have to let the Muse have that for an advertisement instead
of a poem the next time, March. Well, the old gentleman given you boys
your scolding?" The person of Fulkerson had got into the room long before
he reached this question, and had planted itself astride a chair.
Fulkerson looked over the chairback, now at March, and now at the elder
Dryfoos as he spoke.

March answered him. "I guess we must have been waiting for you,
Fulkerson. At any rate, we hadn't got to the scolding yet."

"Why, I didn't suppose Mr. Dryfoos could 'a' held in so long. I
understood he was awful mad at the way the thing started off, and wanted
to give you a piece of his mind, when he got at you. I inferred as much
from a remark that he made." March and Dryfoos looked foolish, as men do
when made the subject of this sort of merry misrepresentation.

"I reckon my scolding will keep awhile yet," said the old man, dryly.

"Well, then, I guess it's a good chance to give Mr. Dryfoos an idea of
what we've really done--just while we're resting, as Artemus Ward says.
Heigh, March?"

"I will let you blow the trumpet, Fulkerson. I think it belongs strictly
to the advertising department," said March. He now distinctly resented
the old man's failure to say anything to him of the magazine; he made his
inference that it was from a suspicion of his readiness to presume upon a
recognition of his share in the success, and he was determined to second
no sort of appeal for it.

"The advertising department is the heart and soul of every business,"
said Fulkerson, hardily, "and I like to keep my hand in with a little
practise on the trumpet in private. I don't believe Mr. Dryfoos has got
any idea of the extent of this thing. He's been out among those
Rackensackens, where we were all born, and he's read the notices in their
seven by nine dailies, and he's seen the thing selling on the cars, and
he thinks he appreciates what's been done. But I should just like to take
him round in this little old metropolis awhile, and show him 'Every Other
Week' on the centre tables of the millionaires--the Vanderbilts and the
Astors--and in the homes of culture and refinement everywhere, and let
him judge for himself. It's the talk of the clubs and the dinner-tables;
children cry for it; it's the Castoria of literature and the Pearline of
art, the 'Won't-be-happy-till-he-gets-it of every en lightened man,
woman, and child in this vast city. I knew we could capture the country;
but, my goodness! I didn't expect to have New York fall into our hands at
a blow. But that's just exactly what New York has done. Every Other Week
supplies the long-felt want that's been grinding round in New York and
keeping it awake nights ever since the war. It's the culmination of all
the high and ennobling ideals of the past."

"How much," asked Dryfoos, "do you expect to get out of it the first
year, if it keeps the start it's got?"

"Comes right down to business, every time!" said Fulkerson, referring the
characteristic to March with a delighted glance. "Well, sir, if
everything works right, and we get rain enough to fill up the springs,
and it isn't a grasshopper year, I expect to clear above all expenses
something in the neighborhood of twenty-five thousand dollars."

"Humph! And you are all going to work a year--editor, manager, publisher,
artists, writers, printers, and the rest of 'em--to clear twenty-five
thousand dollars?--I made that much in half a day in Moffitt once. I see
it made in half a minute in Wall Street, sometimes." The old man
presented this aspect of the case with a good-natured contempt, which
included Fulkerson and his enthusiasm in an obvious liking.

His son suggested, "But when we make that money here, no one loses it."

"Can you prove that?" His father turned sharply upon him. "Whatever is
won is lost. It's all a game; it don't make any difference what you bet
on. Business is business, and a business man takes his risks with his
eyes open."

"Ah, but the glory!" Fulkerson insinuated with impudent persiflage. "I
hadn't got to the glory yet, because it's hard to estimate it; but put
the glory at the lowest figure, Mr. Dryfoos, and add it to the
twenty-five thousand, and you've got an annual income from 'Every Other
Week' of dollars enough to construct a silver railroad, double-track,
from this office to the moon. I don't mention any of the sister planets
because I like to keep within bounds."

Dryfoos showed his lower teeth for pleasure in Fulkerson's fooling, and
said, "That's what I like about you, Mr. Fulkerson--you always keep
within bounds."

"Well, I ain't a shrinking Boston violet, like March, here. More
sunflower in my style of diffidence; but I am modest, I don't deny it,"
said Fulkerson. "And I do hate to have a thing overstated."

"And the glory--you do really think there's something in the glory that
pays?"

"Not a doubt of it! I shouldn't care for the paltry return in money,"
said Fulkerson, with a burlesque of generous disdain, "if it wasn't for
the glory along with it."

"And how should you feel about the glory, if there was no money along
with it?"

"Well, sir, I'm happy to say we haven't come to that yet."

"Now, Conrad, here," said the old man, with a sort of pathetic rancor,
"would rather have the glory alone. I believe he don't even care much for
your kind of glory, either, Mr. Fulkerson."

Fulkerson ran his little eyes curiously over Conrad's face and then
March's, as if searching for a trace there of something gone before which
would enable him to reach Dryfoos's whole meaning. He apparently resolved
to launch himself upon conjecture. "Oh, well, we know how Conrad feels
about the things of this world, anyway. I should like to take 'em on the
plane of another sphere, too, sometimes; but I noticed a good while ago
that this was the world I was born into, and so I made up my mind that I
would do pretty much what I saw the rest of the folks doing here below.
And I can't see but what Conrad runs the thing on business principles in
his department, and I guess you'll find it so if you look into it. I
consider that we're a whole team and big dog under the wagon with you to
draw on for supplies, and March, here, at the head of the literary
business, and Conrad in the counting-room, and me to do the heavy lying
in the advertising part. Oh, and Beaton, of course, in the art. I 'most
forgot Beaton--Hamlet with Hamlet left out."

Dryfoos looked across at his son. "Wasn't that the fellow's name that was
there last night?"

"Yes," said Conrad.

The old man rose. "Well, I reckon I got to be going. You ready to go
up-town, Conrad?"

"Well, not quite yet, father."

The old man shook hands with March, and went downstairs, followed by his
son.

Fulkerson remained.

"He didn't jump at the chance you gave him to compliment us all round,
Fulkerson," said March, with a smile not wholly of pleasure.

Fulkerson asked, with as little joy in the grin he had on, "Didn't he say
anything to you before I came in?"

"Not a word."

"Dogged if I know what to make of it," sighed Fulkerson, "but I guess
he's been having a talk with Conrad that's soured on him. I reckon maybe
he came back expecting to find that boy reconciled to the glory of this
world, and Conrad's showed himself just as set against it as ever."

"It might have been that," March admitted, pensively. "I fancied
something of the kind myself from words the old man let drop."

Fulkerson made him explain, and then he said:

"That's it, then; and it's all right. Conrad 'll come round in time; and
all we've got to do is to have patience with the old man till he does. I
know he likes you." Fulkerson affirmed this only interrogatively, and
looked so anxiously to March for corroboration that March laughed.

"He dissembled his love," he said; but afterward, in describing to his
wife his interview with Mr. Dryfoos, he was less amused with this fact.

When she saw that he was a little cast down by it, she began to encourage
him. "He's just a common, ignorant man, and probably didn't know how to
express himself. You may be perfectly sure that he's delighted with the
success of the magazine, and that he understands as well as you do that
he owes it all to you."

"Ah, I'm not so sure. I don't believe a man's any better for having made
money so easily and rapidly as Dryfoos has done, and I doubt if he's any
wiser. I don't know just the point he's reached in his evolution from
grub to beetle, but I do know that so far as it's gone the process must
have involved a bewildering change of ideals and criterions. I guess he's
come to despise a great many things that he once respected, and that
intellectual ability is among them--what we call intellectual ability. He
must have undergone a moral deterioration, an atrophy of the generous
instincts, and I don't see why it shouldn't have reached his mental
make-up. He has sharpened, but he has narrowed; his sagacity has turned
into suspicion, his caution to meanness, his courage to ferocity. That's
the way I philosophize a man of Dryfoos's experience, and I am not very
proud when I realize that such a man and his experience are the ideal and
ambition of most Americans. I rather think they came pretty near being
mine, once."

"No, dear, they never did," his wife protested.

"Well, they're not likely to be in the future. The Dryfoos feature of
'Every Other Week' is thoroughly distasteful to me."

"Why, but he hasn't really got anything to do with it, has he, beyond
furnishing the money?"

"That's the impression that Fulkerson has allowed us to get. But the man
that holds the purse holds the reins. It was the humorous train, rarely
missing a historical tragedy that this act of brutal tyranny of the
haltungslosesten and fearful of all the Roman statesmanlike to be
completed and that the "first democratic consul" to rule was the
palladium of the old Roman municipal freedom, the Provocation right
to destroy.

Once in the capital of the conspiracy had been stifled before they
came to the outbreak, it was still left, the Insurrektion in Etruria
to make an end.

The Heerbestand of about 2000 men, the Catiline that interrupts had
by many herbeistroemenden recruits and trained almost quintupled
already two fairly complete legions, which admittedly only about
the fourth part of the team was sufficiently armed.

Catiline had them thrown into the mountains and a battle with the
troops of Antonius avoided in order to organize his flocks, and to
the outbreak of the revolt in Rome to be seen.

But the news of the failure of that sprinkled the Army of Insurgente:
the mass of the less compromised then went back home. The remaining
resolute zurueckbleibende or rather people made a desperate attempt by
the Apenninenpaesse after Gaul durchzuschlagen, but when the small crowd
at the foot of the mountain at Pistoria (Pistoja) is concerned,
she found herself here of two armies in the middle made.

Before that, she had the Corps of Quintus Metellus, of Ravenna and
the Ariminum was used to the northern slope of the Apennines to
fill behind the army of Antonius, the insistence of his officers
finally relented and become a winter campaign had understood.

Catiline after being stuck out both sides and the food went to the end,
there remained nothing left than to the enemy naeherstehenden, which
means to throw at Anthony.

In a narrow enclosed by rocky mountains Tale did the battle between
Insurgentes and the troops of Antonius, the same, the execution
order against his former allies, at least not even have to enforce
it, for that day under a pretext of a brave, under arms gray officer,
the Petreius Marcus, had been entrusted.

The transfer of power in the government army was in the nature of
the battlefield not be considered.

Catiline as Petreius presented their reliable people in the front
rows; Quarter was neither given nor taken. Long was the struggle and both
sides were many brave men, Catiline, before the beginning of the battle,
his horse and all the officers had returned, on this day showed that it
was not the habitual nature of things and had determined that
it understood both as a captain to command and as a soldier to
fight.

Finally Petreius sprinkled with his guards the center of the enemy
and hold, after he had thrown the two wings from the inside, the
victory was so decided.

The corpses of Catilinarier - One counts of 3000 - almost covered bridge
in series and the soil, where they were ment under which officers and
the captain himself had, because everything was lost, in the fallen enemy,
and from there sought and found death ( top 692 62).

Anthony was because of this victory by the Senate with the title Imperator
and new branded Thanks celebrations proved that government and the
governed began to participate in the civil war to become accustomed.

The anarchist conspiracy was in the capital, as in Italy, with bloody
violence dejected been one ward only reminiscent of the same crime by
the processes involved in the Etruscan Landstaedten and in the capital
among affiliated to the beaten party clears up, and by the swelling
Italic Raeuberbanden, as for example the one from the remains of
the armies of Spartacus and Catiline grown in 694 (60) in the area
of Thurii by Militaergewalt was destroyed.

But it is important to keep in mind that the blow just no actual
anarchists took to the ignition of the capital itself and in
verschworen ment under Pistoria had, but the entire democratic party.

That this, especially Crassus and Caesar, here as well as with the
plot of 688 (66) which had a hand in games, as one may not legally,
but historical fact be identified.

While that Catulus and other leaders of the Senate party leader of the
Democrats of the complicity of the anarchist conspiracy, and that as a
senator against the oligarchy of the intended brutal murder of Justice
spoke and voted, only by the party harassment as evidence of his
participation in the plans Catilinas be claimed. But more important, a
number of other facts. For expressions and testimonies, it was
imperative before any Crassus and Caesar, the Catilinas application
to the consulate supported.

As Caesar 690 (64), the henchmen Sullas before the murder court
moved to the other, he condemned the guilty and dangerous, but all
of them, the Catiline, exonerated.

When the revelations of the third named Cicero in December under the name
of him displayed Verschworenen the two influential men not only
it is well that the informers not only on those states against which
the later investigation was addressed, but also still on "Many
innocent people," the consul Cicero from the directory to be deleted
for good was, and in later years, when he had no cause, to garble
the truth, he has just expressed Caesar among Mitwissern mentioned.

An indirect, but quite understandable accuse is that of the four
arrested in December on the third, the two least dangerous, and
Statilius Gabinius, the senators Caesar and Crassus to guard have
been passed over, apparently, they should either, if they could
escape, before the public opinion as an accomplice, or if they in
fact she held before her as an apostate Mitverschworenen be
compromised.

Characteristic of the situation is the following scene occurred which in
the Senate. Immediately after the arrest of Lentulus and his comrades
was one of the Verschworenen in the capital of Catiline messenger
that was the agent of the government and raised the same, after he
was assured impunity, in full senate meeting, a comprehensive
confession led off.

As he accepts the questionable parts of his confession and was named
as his principal called the Crassus, He was the Senators lost to
Cicero's proposal and decided that the entire claim without further
investigation to collect, but whatever its authorship of the promised
amnesty for as long einzusperren until he not only revoked the
claim, but also would have known who it such false testimony
aufgestiftet have!

Here it is clear days, not just that the ratio of that man knew quite
well, based on the call, an attack on Crassus to make the answer
was that he did not feel like the bull of the herd to irritate, but
also that the Senatsmajoritaet, Cicero in the lead, agreed among
themselves was not the revelations about a certain limit vorschreiten
it.

The audience was not so sensitive, the young people who have to
ward off the burner, the murder weapons seized were not so bitter
against as against Caesar, they were directed at the fifth of
December, when he left the Curia, the swords on his chest and it
lacked not much, that he is now in the same place would have left
his life, where seventeen years later he met the death spread, a
long time he has the Curia not to enter again.

Who shocks the course of the conspiracy at ease considering the
suspicion will not help to fortunes that during this entire time
behind Catiline were mighty men, which, having regard to the complete
lack of legal evidence and to the cowardice of the lukewarmness and
only half inaugurated and after any excuse for inaction eager
straddling the Senate majority, it is understood any serious
intervention by the authorities against the conspiracy to impede,
the leader of the free Insurgente deduction for them, and even the
declaration of war and troops against the programs to steer
Insurrektion so that they are almost on a consignment relief
tantamount army.

Thus, if the course of events testifies dafuer that the threads of
the conspiracy Catilinarischen much higher than hinaufreichen to
Lentulus and Catiline, it is also noteworthy that in a much later
time when Caesar at the head of the state was reached, he with the
only remaining Catilinarier, the Mauritanian Freischarenfuehrer
Publius Sittius, in the closest Buendnis stood, and that it is the
law in the sense completely softened, as the proclamations of Manlius
coveted.

Inzichten All of these individual speak clearly enough, but it would
also not , the desperate situation of democracy gegenueber since
the Gabin Manil-laws threatened than ever her side rising Militaergewalt
makes it in itself is almost certain that she, as happens in such
cases to proceed maintains, in the secret conspiracies and the
alliance with the anarchy one last sought help.

The ratio of which were very similar cinnanischen time. If Pompey in the
East about taking a position as it was Sulla, Crassus, and then
searched him against Caesar in Italy, rising violence, such as
Marius and Cinna had they possessed them to even better than to use
them.

The road then went back to terrorism and anarchy, and this was to pave
Catiline, however, the ideal man of course considered the leader of democracy
reputierlicheren are preferably in the background and left the dirty
fellow to perform the dirty work, the policy result they are later
zuzueignen hoped. Even more turned than the company had failed to
hoehergestellten all participants to make their contribution to disguise
it. And even in later times, when the former Konspirator itself the target
of political conspiracies had become attracted Exactly on this
gloomy year in the life of the great man of the veil just so tight
together and in this sense, even his own apologies for it is written
^ 6 ----------------------------------------------- ----- ^ 6 Such
is the 'Catiline' of Sallustius used by the author, a notorious
Caesarianer, after the year 708 (46) either at Caesars reign alone
or more likely under the triumvirate of his heirs was released,
apparently as a political font tendency which sought the Democratic
Party, on which indeed the Roman monarchy is based, to honor and
to Caesar's memory of the blackest stain, which is liable to clean,
alongside the uncle of Marcus Antonius Trimvirn preferably
weisszuwaschen (see C. 59, for example, with Dio 37, 39).

Quite similarly, the 'Jugurtha' the same author partly the wretched
of the oligarchic regime reveal some of the luminaries Gaius Marius
glorify democracy.

That the writer looking apologetic and the nature of this
accusatorial resigning his books can not proof that they do not, but that
they are good party fonts. --------------------- ---------------------------------
For five years, Pompey in the east at the head of his armies and fleets,
since five konspirierte years of democracy at home, in order to
topple him.

The result was disheartening. With unspeakable efforts had not only
achieved nothing, but morally as physically made tremendous loss. Already
the coalition from the year 683 (71) had the Democrats from the pure water
is a nuisance, although democracy was only two reputable men of the
opposite party is einliess and committed to their program.

But now, the Democratic Party made common cause with a gang of
murderers and Bankerottierern that almost all the same if Ueberlaeufer
from the camp of the aristocracy, and had their program, ie the
Cinnanischen terrorism, at least temporarily accepted.

The party of material interests, one of the main elements of the
coalition of 683 (71) was thereby alienated from democracy and
initially the Optimat, but anyone at all about power, the protection
against anarchy and wanted to give was driven into the arms.

Even the metropolitan quantity, albeit against a street riot had nothing,
but it was inconvenient to the house over his head, set fire to leave
was somewhat shy.

It is strange that just this year (691 63) the full restoration of Sempron
cereal donations took place, and by the Senate at the request of Cato.
Apparently, the Federation of Demokratenfuehrer with those of
anarchy between the city and residents driven a wedge, and examined
the oligarchy, not least the current success of this rift and to
the masses on their side hinueberzuziehen.

Endlich was Gnaeus Pompey through all these Kabale partly warned, some
have been fierce, after all, what had happened, and democracy after the
gang, which they linked with Pompey, as well as himself had torn apart,
she could no longer crave it schicklicherweise what in the year
684 (70) for a certain amount of equity that had it's democratic
power, and he brought it up, not himself with the sword destroy.

So was the dishonours democracy and weakened above all, but she was
ridiculed by the merciless become uncover their helplessness and
weakness.

Where is the humiliation of the fallen regiment and was by no means similar,
it was big and powerful, but each of their attempts to establish
a truly achieve political success, was flattened to the ground like.

Your relationship to Pompey was so wrong and pathetic. While it with
tributes and Lobspruechen overwhelmed, tense against him a plot after
another, one after another, like bubbles, burst by itself. The captain
of the East and the oceans, far away, on the other hand to defend set
seemed all the bustle not even to notice and his victory over them erfechten
as the Herakles on the Pygmies, without question yourself to become aware.
The attempt to ignite civil war, had failed miserably, the anarchist
group had at least some energy developed, so did the pure democracy Rotten
might have understood things, but not to lead, nor to save them, nor
to die with them. Even the old oligarchy matt death was strengthened by
the ranks of the democratic masses to their transgressions, and
especially by the unmistakable in this case equality of its interests
and those of Pompey, and managed, these Revolution attempt to above
and therefore a final victory over the erfechten democracy.

Meanwhile, King Mithradates died, Asia Minor and Syria in order, Pompeius'
return to Italy every moment to be expected. The decision was not far
away, but could in fact still be any question of a decision between
the commander, the mighty and glorious as ever came back, and the
unprecedented humiliated and totally impotent democracy? Crassus sent
to his family and his gold and ships to anywhere in the East instead
of to see a free, and even a so elastic and so energetic nature seemed
like Caesar in the process lost the game to give. In this year
(691 63) falls his candidature for the post of Oberpontifex, as he died
on the morning of the election left his apartment, he said, though this
he failed, he would be the threshold of his house not exceed 6. Chapter
Pompey 'resignation and the Coalition of Praetendenten As Pompey after
completing the tasks he applied his gaze back to the home research,
he found the second time the diadem on his feet.

A long tilted the development of the Roman polity of such a disaster on
it was all fresh and had obviously been said a thousand times that
if the rule of the aristocracy to an end would be the monarchy was
inevitable.

Now the Senate has also fallen by the bourgeois, liberal opposition
and the soldiers of violence, it was only a matter of act, for the
new order of things, persons, the names and forms to determine the
rest are in the partly democratic, partly military elements the
changing already hinted were clear enough.

The events of the last five years had this impending transformation
of the community, as the final seal is pressed.

In the newly established Asian provinces, which in its folder the
successor of the great Alexander Koenig venerated and even his freedmen
as beneficiary prince received, had reason to Pompey his rule and laid
the treasures at the same time, the army and the Nimbus found, which the
future of the Roman State Fuerst tention. The anarchist conspiracy but
in the capital with the to related civil war it had any, political
or even physical interests harbored, with sensitive Schaerf argued
that a government without authority and without military power, as
the Senate was the state of just ridiculous how terrible tyranny
of the political industry Ritter suspended and that a Verfassungsaenderung
which Militaergewalt closely linked with the regiment, a unabweisliche
need, if the social order should also have stock.

That was the ruler in the east up in Italy to the throne erected;
apparently was the year 692 (62) The last of the Republic, the
first of the monarchy.

Although no fighting was involved in this objective is not to arrive.

The Constitution, which lasted half a millennium, and had the insignificant
town on the Tiber to the unprecedented size and advanced glory, had
its roots you did not know how deep in the ground, and it did not calculate
until the layers down the test, they umzustuerzen, civil society
will agitate.

Several rival were in the race after the big target of Pompey outdated,
but not completely eliminated.

It was certainly not out of calculation that all these elements are connected
to the new rulers to overthrow and Pompey against Catulus about
Quintus and Marcus Cato with Marcus Crassus, Gaius Julius Caesar
and Titus Labienus was united.

But it is not easy, the inevitable and unquestionably serious struggle
caution be included. It was highly likely that under the fresh impression
of a revolt Catilinarischen regiments, the order and security, albeit
at the cost of freedom, promised that the whole Party Central will add
to, especially the sole of their material interests Kaufmannschaft
grieved, but no less a big part of the aristocracy, which, in itself
disordered and politically hopeless, had to be satisfied through
timely transaction with the Fuersten that wealth, rank and influence
secure, perhaps even liked some of the last taken seriously Schlaeger
democracy is modest, they are from one to the upper plate Militaerchef
the realization of a portion of their claims to hope for.

But whatever the Parteiverhaeltnisse is presented, which was,
initially at least, to the party in Italy is still on, against
Pompey and his victorious army?

Twenty years earlier, Sulla, after he and Mithradates had completed a
Notfrieden, against the whole, for years en masse ruestende liberal party
from the moderate and liberal aristocrats Kaufmannschaft on down to the
anarchists, with his five legions, one of the natural evolution
of things contrary to enforce managed restoration.

She spread the cover on the table, and he advised
her, as he saw she wished, against putting anything in the corners; just
run a line of her stitch around the edge, he said.

"Mr. Fulkerson and Ah, why, we've been having a regular faght aboat it,"
she commented. (Leututnant.) Why? (Giuseppe.) In this wicked world, a
general basis of a lieutenant to send, but a lieutenant should never
send a General. (Leutnant.) Ah, you mean that it would not fit. Well,
maybe you have right.

You need these things now extremely cautious, since we have a republic.
(As will appear, coming from the vineyard, Napoleon, his coat on the chest
button up, pale and full of gnawing thoughts.)
He would advertise
'Every Other Week' on his family vault."

Miss Woodburn laughed, and said she should tell him what Beaton had said.

"Do. But he's used to defamation from me, and he'll think you're joking."

"Ah suppose," said Miss Woodburn, "that he's quahte the tahpe of a New
York business man." She added, as if it followed logically, "He's so
different from what I thought a New York business man would be."

"It's your Virginia tradition to despise business," said Beaton, rudely.

Miss Woodburn laughed again. "Despahse it? Mah goodness! we want to get
into it and woak it fo' all it's wo'th,' as Mr. Fulkerson says. That
tradition is all past. You don't know what the Soath is now. Ah suppose
mah fathaw despahses business, but he's a tradition himself, as Ah tell
him." Beaton would have enjoyed joining the young lady in anything she
might be going to say in derogation of her father, but he restrained
himself, and she went on more and more as if she wished to account for
her father's habitual hauteur with Beaton, if not to excuse it. "Ah tell
him he don't understand the rising generation. He was brought up in the
old school, and he thinks we're all just lahke he was when he was young,
with all those ahdeals of chivalry and family; but, mah goodness! it's
money that cyoants no'adays in the Soath, just lahke it does everywhere
else. Ah suppose, if we could have slavery back in the fawm mah fathaw
thinks it could have been brought up to, when the commercial spirit
wouldn't let it alone, it would be the best thing; but we can't have it
back, and Ah tell him we had better have the commercial spirit as the
next best thing."

Miss Woodburn went on, with sufficient loyalty and piety, to expose the
difference of her own and her father's ideals, but with what Beaton
thought less reference to his own unsympathetic attention than to a
knowledge finally of the personnel and materiel of 'Every Other Week.'
and Mr. Fulkerson's relation to the enterprise. "You most excuse my
asking so many questions, Mr. Beaton. You know it's all mah doing that we
awe heah in New York. Ah just told mah fathaw that if he was evah goin'
to do anything with his wrahtings, he had got to come No'th, and Ah made
him come. Ah believe he'd have stayed in the Soath all his lahfe. And now
Mr. Fulkerson wants him to let his editor see some of his wrahtings, and
Ah wanted to know something aboat the magazine. Even the elections
for 698 (56) were only partly within the meaning of Dynastes out:
Caesar's candidate for the Praetur, Vatinius Publius and Gaius Alfius were
gone through, on the other hand, two strong supporters of the toppled
government, Gnaeus Lentulus Marcellinus and Gnaeus Calvinus Domitian,
that the consul, the praetor of these were elected.

For 699 (55) but was a candidate for the consulate did Lucius Ahenobarbus
occurred Domitian, whose election in his influence in the capital, and
his colossal fortunes hard to prevent and from which it was well known
that he is not disguised opposition should provide useful let. The
Komitien thus rebelled, and the Senate agree.

It was solemnly geratschlagt from him about an opinion, the Etruscan
soothsayer of recognized wisdom about certain signs and wonders at
the request of the Senate had made.

The divine revelation proclaimed, that the strife of the higher
social violence over the whole army and treasure to an arbiter
ueberzugehen and the state in bondage getting threatened - it seemed
that the gods first on the request of Gaius Messius targeted.

Soon the Republicans went from heaven to earth. The law on the territory
of Capua and the other of Caesar as consul laws of them were always
described as a void, and already in December 697 (57) in the Senate
has been expressed that it was necessary, because of their formal
errors to cash.

On 6 April 698 (56), the consular Cicero in the full Senate the
complaint, advising on the Campania for American distribution Acker
15 May on the agenda.

It was the formal declaration of war, and she was so significant,
as they appear on the lips is one of those men was the only color
to show if they think that it certainly can be done.

Apparently, the aristocracy came the moment to fight with Pompey
against Caesar, but against the tyranny actually about to start.

What more will follow, it was easy to see. Domitian had been no
secret that he was consul Caesar immediate dismissal from Gaul to
the residents intend to apply.

An aristocratic restoration work was in, and with the attack on the
colony of Capua accused the rulers of the nobility towards the glove.

Caesar, although he tells about the metropolitan events from day
to day detailed reports received and, if the military allowed some
consideration there, they from its southern pursued in as close,
but so far had at least not visible in the same action.

But now he was as good as his colleagues, so it primarily, the war
declared that he had to act and act quickly.

Also, he was near the aristocracy was not even for good, with the Bruche
to wait until it comes back over the Alps would have declined.
Beginning of April, 698 (56) Crassus left the capital, with its mighty
colleagues that are necessary to meet, he found Caesar in Ravenna. From
there, both went after Luca and here also met with them Pompey,
Crassus soon after (April 11), allegedly to the grain shipments
from Africa and Sardinia to operate from Rome had removed.

The most prominent supporters of the rulers, as the proconsul of this side
of Spain, Metellus Nepos, who Propraetor of Sardinia, Appius
Claudius, and many others who followed after them, one hundred and
twenty Liktoren, about two hundred senators, there were at this
conference, where, in contrast to the republican, monarchic, the
new Senate was representing.

In every respect was the key word for Caesar. He used it to the existing
total domination on the basis of a new uniform distribution of power
to restore and solid reasons.

The governor militarily significant activities, which in addition
to the two Gaul were the two gentlemen were admitted: Pompey to
both Spain, Crassus of Syria, which posts them by People's Final
at five years (700-704 54 - 50) and militarily secure as adequately
equipped to be.

In contrast bedang Caesar, the extension of his command, with the year
700 (54) ran to the end, until the end of the year 705 (49), as well as
the power to his legions of ten to multiply and take over the Soldes for
arbitrarily he excavated troops to the state treasury.

Pompey and Crassus was also for the next year (699 55), before going
into their bodies abgingen governor, the second consulate promised,
while Caesar is kept open, just after completing his governorship
in the year 706 (48), where the law between two Consulates required
decennial interval elapsed for him was the second time the highest
office to manage.

The military backing, which Pompey and Crassus to stabilize the
metropolitan ratio the more needed when the original is now certain
legions of Caesar from Gaul Transalpinischen could not be moved,
they found in the legions, they for the Spanish and Syrian armies
newly excavate and only if they themselves seem reasonable, from
Italy to their various Bestimmungsplaetze should leave off.

The main questions were done, the lower things, like fixing the opposition
against the metropolitan tactics to be followed, the regulation of
nominations for the next few years and so forth, were not long.

The personal quarrels which Vertraegnis stood in the way, settled
by the great masters of using the familiar ease and forced
the reluctant elements that are interconnected to behaben.

Between Pompey and Crassus was maintained at least a collegial agreement
restored.

Even Publius Clodius was determined, and his mob to keep quiet and Pompey
also not to harass - not the least of the miracles powerful magician.

The fact that this whole settlement of the pending questions not
from a compromise of rival independent and coequal in power, but
only from the good Caesar's desire to show show the ratio.

Pompey was in Luca in the embarrassing position of a powerless refugees
who comes at his opponents to seek help.

Caesar liked him and rejecting the coalition as solved, or even explain
his record and the federal government can continue to exist, just
as he was - Pompey was politically destroyed anyway.

If he is in this case with Caesar is not broke, so he was powerless
Schutzbefohlene of its allies.

When he broke on the other hand, with Caesar and what was not very
likely, even now a coalition agreement with the aristocracy was,
but even so this was necessarily the last moment and ended Buendnis
the opponent so little awful, that Caesar is difficult to do this
from occurring, to understand those concessions.

A serious rivalry of Crassus against Caesar was completely impossible.
It's hard to say. Which certain motifs Caesar, his superior position without
distress and to what his rival even at the conclusion of the federal
694 (60) and this has failed to reveal the intention of Caesar to be
prepared to different ways without, even against Caesar's will had
sought in vain, the second consulate and military power, now it
should be voluntary.

But Pompey was not alone at the top of an army, but also his old
enemy and ally Caesars Long Crassus, and Crassus was undoubtedly
his respectable position as a military counterweight against Pompey
'new power.

Solo nonetheless lost Caesar infinitely by his rivals for his past
powerlessness is an important command eintauschte.

It is possible that Caesar's soldiers are not yet sufficiently Lord
felt to them with confidence in the war against the formal authority
of the country to lead, and that he was anxious, not now due to the
removal from Gaul to war urged citizens to be ; alone if it came
to civil war or not, was immediately much more in the metropolitan
aristocracy than for Pompey, and there would be no more than one
reason for Caesar was no openly with Pompey to break in order not
to break through the opposition to encourage but not to accept him,
he admitted what he stood.

Purely personal motives wish to participate, it may be that Caesar
remembered, once in the same powerlessness faced Pompey, and that I
am only through his admittedly more weakly than magnanimous resigning
from the sinking to have been rescued, it is likely that Caesar
is spared, the heart of his beloved and her husband sincerely loving
daughter to tear - in his soul was still room for much of the
statesman.

The key cause was undoubtedly the view of Gaul. Caesar looked at - unlike
his biographers - the subjugation of Gaul, not as a crown for the extraction
of useful incidental him company, but it was him the external
security and internal reorganization, with a word, the future of
the Fatherland that.

To complete this conquest undisturbed and not be able to now, the
unraveling of the Italic ratio in hand to be safe, he gave his
thoughts on it and its rivals Pompey granted sufficient power to
deal with the Senate and its annex to cope.

There was an error of political humor, if nothing wanted to Caesar,
as soon as possible, as king of Rome, only the rare man of ambition
is not limited to the goal of a low crown. He is married to the two
enormous tasks: the organization of the inner relationships of Italy and
the collection and securing a new and fresh soil for the Italic civilization,
to co-operate and complete. Naturally, these tasks crossed his Gallic
conquests have him on his way to the throne rather than inhibited nor
promoted. It earned him the bitter fruits of his Italian revolution, rather
than in the year 698 (56) to finish to the year 706 (48) hinausschob. Solo
as a statesman and as a captain was a Caesar ueberverwegener player who
herself confidently as his opponents despise them a lot about everything
and sometimes beyond measure argued. It was now at the aristocracy,
their high use of remedy and the war so kuehn to lead, as they had declared
him kuehn. But it is not a pathetic spectacle, as if cowardly people have
the misfortune, a brave decision to take. We had just planned to do
nothing. None of it has seemed to be falling, that Caesar might be to
defend themselves, even now that Pompey and Crassus with him afresh and
unite more closely than ever would. That seems incredible, one conceives
it, if the personalities into the eye up, then the constitutional loyal
opposition in the Senate led. Cato was still absent ^ 2, the most influential
man in the Senate was in this time Bibulus Marcus, the hero of passive
resistance, and eigensinnigste CONSULAR stumpfsinnigste all. It had only
taken the weapons to make them stretch, and the only opponent to beat
the vagina, the mere customer of the conferences in Luca enough to any
idea of serious opposition to above and the mass of the fearful, which
means the vast majority of the Senate to return to their disaster
compulsory subjects abandoned hours back. From the scheduled hearing
to consider the validity of the July's laws was not the speech; by
Caesar on his own legions were hand built by order of the Senate to the
state coffers over the trials, in the regulation of next Konsularprovinzen
Caesar Gaul or both but the a same hinwegzudekretieren were rejected by
the majority (at the end of May 698 56). How did the body of public
buses. In secret, the individual men, one after another, fatally frightened
about their own rashness, to make their peace and unconditional obedience
to vow - no faster than Marcus Cicero, the Wortbruechigkeit its
too late repented and in terms of its recent past with honor titles
showed that many more aptly than flattering were ^ 3rd Of course,
let those in power to appease them, no one failed the pardon, because
none of the effort worth with him to make an exception.

To see how suddenly after the receipt of the decisions of the Luca clay
in the aristocratic circles umschlug, it is worth the trouble, a
little before Cicero outgoing brochures with the Palinodie to
compare, he let out to his remorse and his good intentions public
to consider ^ 4 ------------------------------------------ --- ^ 2
Cato was not in Rome, as Cicero on 11 March 698 (56) for said Sestius
(Sest. 28, 60) and in the Senate as a result of decisions by Luca
about Caesars legions was negotiated (Plut.

CAES. 21); only at the beginning of negotiations in the 699 (55), we
find him again active, and as he traveled in the winter (Plus. Cato min
38), so he returned at the end of 698 (56) back to Rome. He therefore
can not, as one of Asconius misleading (p. 35, 53) has concluded, in
February 698 (56) have defended. ^ 3 Me asinum germanum Fuissé (art. 4,
5, 3). ^ 4 This Palinodie The remaining question about the consuls of
the year 699 (55) to include the provinces. She is starting in May 698
(56) kept the counterparts, are the speeches for and against Sestius
and Vatinius about the opinions of the Etruscan soothsayer from the
months of March and April in which the aristocratic regime strongly
glorified, especially in very sound cavaliers treated. It can only
approve that Cicero, as he himself admits (Att 4, 5, 1), even trusted
friends of his in that document returned obedience to be ashamed about
that. -------------- ---------------------------- What they liked and
were able to more thoroughly than before so the rulers of the Italic
arrange ratio. Italy and the capital actually received one, even
if not under arms, gathered the crew and one of the rulers to
the commander. Of the for Syria and Spain by Crassus and Pompey
excavated while the troops went after the former East; Pompey let alone
the two Spanish provinces by his sub-commanders of the past are
there to manage the crew, while the officers and soldiers of the
new, the name after the departure to Spain on holiday excavated
legions dismissed, and even with them remained in Italy. well
increased the silent resistance of public opinion, the clearer and
more general was understood that the leaders worked with the old
constitution to an end and in the most friendly manner, the existing
ratio of the government and administration in the forms of monarchy
to add, only one obeyed, because you had to.

Above all things, all important matters and especially all the Militaerwesen
and the environmental conditions that, without the Senate to ask why,
soon replaced by People's decision, soon replaced by the mere Gutfinden
the ruler does. The Luca agreed provisions regarding Militaerkommandos of
Gaul were Crassus and Pompey to Spain and Syria, concerned by the
Volkstribun Gaius Trebonius directly to the residents brought in other
important activities governor often filled by people closing. That
for those in power, the consent of the authorities do not require their
troops to multiply freely, Caesar had already been sufficiently established,
nor were they raised their troops themselves to borrow, such as Caesar of
Pompey for the Gallipolis Chen, Crassus Caesar Parthischen for the war
such collegial support received. The Transpadaner, which under the
existing Constitution, only the Latin legal status has been raised by
Caesar during his administration actually treated as a Roman Vollbuerger
^ 5th If otherwise the establishment of newly acquired territories by
a Senate Committee had been procured, then organized his vast Caesar
Gallic conquests perfectly in its sole discretion and founded, for example,
without any further authorization Buergermeister colonies, namely
novelty comum (Como) with fuenftausend colonists.

Piso led the Thracian, the Egyptian Gabinius, Crassus Parthischen the
war without asking the Senate, without even so, conventional as it was
sent to the Senate report, in similar way, triumphs and other Ehrenbezeigungen
approved and implemented without therefore welcomes the Senate
promised.

Beaton told what he knew of the primitive sect, with its early Christian
polity, its literal interpretation of Christ's ethics, and its quaint
ceremonial of foot-washing; he made something picturesque of that. "The
father is a Mammon-worshipper, pure and simple. I suppose the young
ladies go to church, but I don't know where. They haven't tried to
convert me."

"I'll tell them not to despair--after I've converted them," said Miss
Vance. "Will you let me use you as a 'point d'appui', Mr. Beaton?"

"Any way you like. If you're really going to see them, perhaps I'd better
make a confession. I left your banjo with them, after I got it put in
order."

"How very nice! Then we have a common interest already."

"Do you mean the banjo, or--"

"The banjo, decidedly. Which of them plays?"

"Neither. But the eldest heard that the banjo was 'all the rage,' as the
youngest says. Perhaps you can persuade them that good works are the
rage, too."

Beaton had no very lively belief that Margaret would go to see the
Dryfooses; he did so few of the things he proposed that he went upon the
theory that others must be as faithless. Still, he had a cruel amusement
in figuring the possible encounter between Margaret Vance, with her
intellectual elegance, her eager sympathies and generous ideals, and
those girls with their rude past, their false and distorted perspective,
their sordid and hungry selfishness, and their faith in the omnipotence
of their father's wealth wounded by their experience of its present
social impotence. At the bottom of his heart he sympathized with them
rather than with her; he was more like them.

People had ceased coming, and some of them were going. Miss Vance said
she must go, too, and she was about to rise, when the host came up with
March; Beaton turned away.

"Miss Vance, I want to introduce Mr. March, the editor of 'Every Other
Week.' You oughtn't to be restricted to the art department. We literary
fellows think that arm of the service gets too much of the glory
nowadays." His banter was for Beaton, but he was already beyond ear-shot,
and the host went on:

"Mr. March can talk with you about your favorite Boston. He's just turned
his back on it."

"Oh, I hope not!" said Miss Vance. "I can't imagine anybody voluntarily
leaving Boston."

"I don't say he's so bad as that," said the host, committing March to
her. "He came to New York because he couldn't help it--like the rest of
us. I never know whether that's a compliment to New York or not."

They talked Boston a little while, without finding that they had common
acquaintance there; Miss Vance must have concluded that society was much
larger in Boston than she had supposed from her visits there, or else
that March did not know many people in it. But she was not a girl to care
much for the inferences that might be drawn from such conclusions; she
rather prided herself upon despising them; and she gave herself to the
pleasure of being talked to as if she were of March's own age. In the
glow of her sympathetic beauty and elegance he talked his best, and tried
to amuse her with his jokes, which he had the art of tingeing with a
little seriousness on one side. He made her laugh; and he flattered her
by making her think; in her turn she charmed him so much by enjoying what
he said that he began to brag of his wife, as a good husband always does
when another woman charms him; and she asked, Oh was Mrs. March there;
and would he introduce her?

She asked Mrs. March for her address, and whether she had a day; and she
said she would come to see her, if she would let her. Mrs. March could
not be so enthusiastic about her as March was, but as they walked home
together they talked the girl over, and agreed about her beauty and her
amiability. Mrs. Ragusa had a Senate which every three years one of its
members as president ( "Prince") chose. The Bokel created a Central
Commission, which consisted of 18 members, whose duty and
responsibility it was to administer the country.March, "that
city girls, brought up as she must have been, are often the most innocent
of all. JUPITER seated on a throne of gold and precious stones in his hand
and carrying the scepter of cypress, is at his feet to the eagle, whose
feathers of a thousand different colors reflecting steel: beams, their
terrible weapons lie on the floor.But perhaps the rest have to pay too
much for them."

So firmly was he convinced that Pompey only Eigensinn hesitate and necessary
to Entsatz herbeikommen, that it is unlikely seriously to the siege
gefusst made and not even in the surrounding towns relocated recruits
in clusters Corfinium zusammenzog.

Pompey but did not appear, and for good reasons, because his two legions
unreliable, he could well be support for the country Piceno storm, but
not with them alone to battle Caesar offer. Dafuer came after a few days
Caesar (February 14).

Among the troops was the same in Picenum the twelfth and the eighth
Corfinium by the legions transalpinischen rise, and were also partly
from the captured or voluntarily contributing to Pompeianischen
teams, some from all over the excavated immediately recruit three
new legions formed, so that before Caesar Corfinium already at the
head of an army of 40000 men, half for serving people, stood.

While Domitian at Pompey 'arrival hoped he defended the city, as his
letters had disappointed him finally, he decided not to endure the lost
items, so his party the biggest Service would have done, not even to
capitulate, but, while the common soldiers of the Entsatz near as
imminent was announced themselves with the officers in making the
next night auszureissen.

However, even these clean plan to put into the works he did not
understand.

His confused behavior betrayed him. Some of the teams began to
moan: the marsischen recruits, such vileness of their commander
is not thought to be possible, wanted to fight against the mutineers,
but they also had to reluctantly convinced of the truth of the accusation
convince what because the entire crew and their crew arrested him, and
the city of Caesar transfer (February 20). The 3000 men strong corps
in 1500 in Alba and collected recruits Tarracina this stretched arms,
as well as Caesar's horsemen patrolling showed that a third division
in Sulmo man of 3500 had already earlier been forced to capitulate.
---------- ------------------------------------- ^ 3 The Senate decision
was dated 7 January, 18 we already knew in Rome for several days
that Caesar crossed the border have (Cic.

Att 7, 10, 9, 10, 4), the messenger took from Rome to Ravenna
allermindestens three days.

Thereafter, the awakening to the 12th January, after which the
reduction of viable Julian 24th November 704 (50) corresponds.
------------------------------------------- ---- Pompey had lost
Italy, where, and Caesar Picenum received had he only wanted the
board as long as possible delay, to make the teams to save what was
still to save.

Slowly, he had to be after the next port Brundisium place in motion.
Here were the two legions of Pompey Luceria and what the recruits
deserted in Apulia in the had together in a hurry, and by the consuls
and other officers in companies and hastily excavated after Brundisium
guided a people; ebendahin went to a lot of political refugees ,
among them the most respected senators in support of their families.

Embarkation began; Inventories vehicles alone is not enough to keep the
whole mass, which still reached 25000 heads was, at one time transported.
There was nothing left when the army to share.

The larger half went vorauf (4th March), with the smaller of about 10,000
men expected Pompey Brundisium in the return of the fleet, because,
as desirable for a possible attempt to Italy again einzunehmen,
including possession of Brundisium, so you dare but not the place
for the duration to hold against Caesar.

Meanwhile, Caesar met before Brundisium On; the siege began. Caesar tried
especially through the Hafenmuendung floating dams and bridges to close
up the return fleet pending; Pompey let alone the underlying trading
in the port vehicles and armies knew the total closure of the port
so long to prevent, to the fleet and supported by Pompey , despite
the vigilance of the besieging enemy mentality of city dwellers,
with great dexterity to a man from the undamaged city pulled out troops
from the area after Caesar kidnapped Greece (17 March). The lack of a
fleet failed as the siege itself, including the further pursuit.
In a bi campaign without a single serious battle, Caesar had an army
of ten legions dissolved so that accurate Not the smaller half of that
in confused flight over the sea to escape, the whole Italian peninsula,
but with inclusion of the capital alongside the State Treasury and
daselbst aufgehaeuften all stocks in the violence of the winner was
advised.

Not without justification, accused the party beaten on the court
shows speed, insight and energy of the "monster."

However, it did ask whether Caesar by the conquest of Italy won more or
lost more. In military terms, although now very considerable resources
not only deprived the opponents, but also for liquid Caesar made
already in spring 705 (49) counts his army arranged everywhere due
to the massive recruitment of the nine ancient unless a significant
number of recruits legions.

But it was not only necessary, in Italy a good crew behind, but also to
take measures against the opponents of the maritime powers intended closure
of the overseas traffic, and consequently the capital, including
the threat of famine, which is already sufficiently entangled Caesar
military task even more is complicated.

Financially, it was however of concern that Caesar was successful,
the metropolitan Kassenbestaende to conquer, but the main revenue
sources, including the charges from the Orient, but were in the
hands of the enemy and in so much greater needs for the Army and
The new requirement for the metropolitan population darbende to
ensure the pre zerrannen considerable sums of money so fast that
Caesar was soon obliged to involve the private credit them, and
because it is impossible so long periods seemed to be able, generally
regarded as the only remaining Aushilfe extensive confiscations
were expected. serious difficulties have prepared the political
situation in which Caesar with the conquest of Italy occurred.

The concerns of the propertied classes was an anarchic changing in general.
Enemies and friends saw in Caesar a second Catiline, Pompey believed or
claimed to believe that Caesar only by the inability to pay its debts,
the civil war had been driven. That was, however absurd, but in fact
were Antezedentien Caesars nothing less than reassuring, and even less of
the calming view of the retinue that surrounded him now.

Anbruechigsten reputation of individuals, such as stadtkundige Gesellen
Quintus Hortensius, Gaius Curio, Marcus Antonius - this is the stepson of
the command executed on Cicero Catilinariers Lentulus - played roles
in the first and the highest confidence items were awarded to men
who had long abandoned their debts just to add, we saw Caesars
officials dancers not only entertain - they did everybody else -
but publicly in the company of such prostitutes appear.

Was it a miracle that even serious political party, and amnesty for all
men landfluechtigen criminals, destruction of Schuldbuecher comprehensive
confiscation, and murder eight commands expected, even a pillage
of Rome by the Gallic soldiers?

Indes herein deceived the 'monster' expectations his enemies as his
friends.

Even Caesar as the first Italian city Ariminum occupied, he forbade all
common soldiers who are armed, within the walls to see, and certainly
no difference whether they are friendly or hostile to him had received,
the Landstaedte protected against any injustice. When the mob spirit
garrison at late evening Corfinium over, he shifted to oppose any military
consideration, the occupation of the city until the other morning, only
to the residents not to a nightly invasion of his fierce soldiers to
disclose. Of the prisoners, the municipalities, as a condition politically
indifferent in their own classification Army, officers not only spared,
but also without distinction of person and without accepting any commitments
freely discharged, and what they as a private property claim was without
only the legitimacy of the complaints with rigor to investigate them
without extension administered. So even Lucius Domitian was treated,
and even the Labienus zurueckgelassene the money and luggage into the
enemy camp nachgesandt. In the most embarrassing yet the funds were goods
of the present immense as the absent defendant is not under attack; yes
Caesar borrowed from friends rather than that he also only by invitation
of the formally allowed, but actually the antiquated property owners
would have to be excited. Only half, not the heavier, saw his task as
the winner with the victory solved, and the guarantee of the duration
after he saw his own position only in the unconditional pardon of the
vanquished, and had therefore also on the entire march from Ravenna to
Brundisium incessantly renewed attempts by a personal meeting with
Pompey and a tolerable comparison procedure. But if the aristocracy
earlier reconciliation had no wish to know it was so
unexpected and disgraceful their emigration to the madness of anger
increased, and the wild Racheschnauben the beaten contrasted strangely
with the reconciliation of the winner.

The emigrants from the camps in Italy backwardness inherent messages
friends regularly went over drafts of confiscations and Proskriptionen,
Epurationsplaenen of the Senate and the State against which Sullas
restorations were child's play and even the moderate party members
heard with horror.

The great passion of powerlessness, the wise moderation of power did its
effect. The whole mass of material about the political interests went,
threw himself into the arms of Caesar. The Landstaedte idolizes "the
righteousness, the moderation, the wisdom" of the winner, and even opponents
conceded that it was these tributes Ernst. The high finance, and juries
Steuerpaechter felt wicked after the shipwreck, the Constitution Party
in Italy involved had no particular desire to continue to entrust
the same Steuermaennern the Capitals came back to light and "the rich
men went back to their daily work, the Zinsbuecher to write. " Even the
great majority of the Senate, at least in number - as though there were
of the nobles and influential members of the Senate only a few among them
- was, despite the commands of Pompey and the consuls, in Italy, sometimes
even in the capital itself, backwardness and let Caesar's regiment is
like. Caesars also apparent in their exuberant wohlberechnete Mild achieved
its purpose: the fear of zappelnde propertied classes against the
threat of anarchy was somewhat appeases. Well, this was the result of
an unpredictable time profit, the prevention of anarchy and the
almost equally dangerous fear of anarchy was the precondition of the future
reorganization of the community. But for the moment this was for Caesar
Mildenberg dangerous than the renewal of cinnanischen and catilinarischen
frenzy would have been, they turned enemies into friends and not friends
in enemies. Caesars catilinarischer Annex grollte that the killings and
looting carried; of this daring, desperate and sometimes talented
companions were the most worrying Querspruenge expected. The Republicans
of all shades have been opposed by the grace of overcomers neither
converted nor reconciled. According to the creed of the party Catone
entband duty against what they called Fatherland, from any other consideration;
Caesar himself who brought freedom and life, was empowered and obligated
, against him the weapons to take, or at least against him komplottieren.
The equally strong groups of the Constitution Party had all the
while if it will find the new monarch of peace and protection to,
but they heard about but not to the monarchy as the monarch of the
heart to curses.

The more manifest the Verfassungsaenderung hervortrat, the more certain,
the great majority of the residents, both in the politically vibrant,
excited as in the capital of the energetic landstaedtischen rural population
and its reflection on the Republican's awareness so far reported
the Constitution in Rome with friends right in their sympathizers
in the exile, daheim that all classes and all individuals were
pompeianisch minded.

The difficult of all these circles mood was further increased by the
moral pressure from the more robust and refined as sympathizers as emigrants
to the quantity of Lauen and less activity. The man was honest about his
stay in Italy, the conscience, the Halbaristokrat believed to be
the plebeian, if he is not with the Domitien Metellern and went
into exile, and even if it is in the Senate of the Caesars Nullitaeten
mitsass.

The mildness of the winner's own was this silent opposition increased
political importance now because Caesar once terrorism is contained,
it seemed to their opponents secretly dislike his regiment without too
much risk can operate. Very soon he made in this strange relationship
experiences with the Senate.

Caesar had started the fight to the Senate terrorized by his oppressors
to liberate. This was done, ie he / she wants the Senate to approve
of what happened, the power to further continuation of the war to
obtain.

For this purpose, "made when Caesar appeared before the capital (late March),
the Volkstribune him of his party in the Senate (April 1).

The Assembly was quite numerous, but even in Italy by the remaining
senators were executed but the most famous, even the former majority
leader of the servile, Marcus Cicero, and Caesar's own father
Lucius Piso, and what was worse, also released were not inclined
to Caesars suggestions on taking.

As Caesar by an attorney for the continuation of the war spoke, said one
of the only two present CONSULAR, Servius Sulpicius Rufus, a urfurchtsamer
man who does not wish than a peaceful death in his bed, that Caesar is
more to the motherland deserves it will if he is to abandon the
war in Greece and Spain to carry.

When Caesar requested the senate, at least his Friedensvorschlaege to send
Pompey was the man, although not opposed, but the threats against the
emigrants had it as neutral in fear is that nobody is held to the message
of peace to take over. On the reluctance of the aristocracy, the throne
of the monarch set up to help, and at the same looseness of the
high college through which shortly before Caesar Pompey 'legal
Oberfeld appointment as Lord in the civil war was thwarted, he now
also failed with the same request.

Other inhibitions were added. Caesar wished to establish its position
have to somehow regulate the dictator to be appointed, it did not
happen because such a constitutional only by one of the consuls could
be ordered and the attempt to the consul Lentulus to buy, which
in his view probably torn Vermoegensverhaeltnissen was still
unsuccessful.

The Volkstribun Lucius Metellus also appealed against all the steps of the
proconsul protest and made facial expressions, the Treasury, as Caesar's
people came to them empty, with his physical needs. Caesar in this case
could not fail, as the inviolable saenftiglich as possible to let
beiseiteschieben; he remained in the process of taking any steps to
contain violence. The Senate, he said it ebenwie shortly before the
Constitution Party did, that although he had requested, by law, and with
aid from the highest authority to arrange the ratio alone is denied
because this may be it can also Entrate.

Without further order of the Senate and the state legal formalities
to care, he handed over the interim administration of the capital,
the praetor Marcus Aemilius Lepidus as Stadtpraefekten and ordered
for the management of landscapes obeying him and the continuation
of the war is necessary to.

Even under the roar of the giant and fight alongside the alluring sounds
of the lavish promises made Caesar is still deep impression on the
metropolitan quantity, as they in their freedom of Rome for the
first time the monarch as the monarch and shut the door of the
national treasury by his soldiers bursting saw.

The times were no longer where impressions and moods of the mass the
course of events given the legions, and decided on some painful
sensations more or less came to nothing.

Caesar hastened the war resume. His previous successes he owed to the
offensive, and he thought also, furthermore, noted the same. The position
of his opponent was strange. After the original plan, the campaign of
both Italy and Spain from Gaul in the two to lead the offensive,
attack thwarted by Caesar, had Pompey to Spain intends to go.

Here he had a very strong position. The Army Council has seven legions,
it is served by a large number of Pompeius' veterans, and the multi Kaempfe
in the mountains had Lusitanian soldiers and officers gestaehlt. Under
the leader Marcus Varro was not a famous as a scholar and a faithful
Pendant, but Lucius had Afranius with distinction in the Orient and in
ment under the Alps, and Marcus Petreius, the overcomers Catilinas
was an equally fearless as libelous officer.

If in the province beyond Caesar nor his governorship had annexed her
some, so was against the important Ebroprovinz with all the gangs
of devotion and gratitude to the famous General shackled, the twenty
years before the wars in their Sertorianischen the command run, and
after its end they had re-established.

Pompey was reduced after the disaster Italic apparently nothing better
to do than with the rescued Heerestruemmern to go there and at the peak
of its total power oppose Caesar. Unfortunately, however, had he, in
the hope that the troops in Corfinium still be able to save as long dwells
in Puglia is that he instead of the Campanian ports provide more
Brundisium to Einschiffungsort was forced to choose.

Why he, Lord of the Sea and in Sicily, not later on the original plan
came back, can not decide whether perhaps the aristocracy in their
short-sighted and wary nature bezeigte not want to face the Spanish troops,
and to entrust the Spanish population - enough Pompey stayed in the east
and Caesar had a choice, either the next attack against the army,
which, under Pompey in Greece 'own command is organized, or against
the proposal ready for its sub-captains in Spain.

He had for the latter and decided, and the Italian campaign came to an
end, measures taken by nine of his best legions, and Reiter 6000,
partly in the Keltengauen Caesar individually chosen people, some
German mercenaries, and a number of Iberian and Ligurian to protect
the lower Rhone together. ebenhier But his opponents were also
worked.

The Senate of Caesar's body to the governor of the Hereafter Gaul
appointed by Lucius Domitian had Corfinium, as well as Caesar him
released with his servants, and with Pompey 'confidence man Lucius
Rufus Vibullius after Massalia down the path and in fact the town
provides is for Pompey to explain, yes Caesars Durchmarsch the
troops to refuse.

The Spanish troops were the two least reliable among legions Varros supreme
command in the province is beyond, however, the five best, reinforced by
40,000 men walking Spanish people, partially keltiberischer line infantry,
partly Lusitanian and other light, and by 5000 Spanish riders, with Afranius
and Petreius, by Vibullius took over command of Pompey set out pursuant
to the Pyrenees to the enemy to block. In that met even in Gaul, Caesar
and posted immediately, since the commencement of the siege of Massalia
himself nor withheld, the greatest part of his Rhone gathered at the troops,
six legions and the cavalry, on the big, over Narbo (Narbonne) to
Rhode (Rosas) road leading to the Pyrenees to prevent the enemy.

It succeeded, as Afranius and Petreius of the passports is concerned,
they found the same is already occupied by the Caesarianern and the
line of the Pyrenees lost.

They took it between them and the Ebro in a position Ilerda (Lerida).
This town is located four miles north of the Ebro River to the
right bank of a tributary of that, the Sicoris (Segre), about the
only one solid bridge led directly to Ilerda.

Ilerda occur south of the left bank of the Ebro accompanying mountains
fairly close to the city hinan; extends northward on both sides of the
flat Sicoris country, by the hill on which the city is built, controlled.
For an army that had to be besieged, it was an excellent position,
but the defense of Spain was, after the occupation of the Pyrenaeenlinie
was failed, but only behind the Ebro seriously be included, and there
is no firm connection between the Ebro and Ilerda produced, yet
this river was bridged, it was the withdrawal of the preliminary
defense in the true position is not sufficiently secured.

The Caesarianer above Ilerda sat down in the Delta, which is the
river with the Sicoris below Ilerda unified with him Cinga (Cinca)
forms, however, it was the first serious attack, after Caesar had
arrived in the camp (June 23).

Mandel seemed to think had honored his girls
by coming to see them, his curiosity was pricked as much as his pride was
galled.

"Well, anyway," said Mela, "I don't care whether Christine's goon' or
not; I am. And you got to go with me, Mrs. Mandel."

"Well, there's a little difficulty," said Mrs. Mandel, with her unfailing
dignity and politeness. "I haven't been asked, you know."

"Then what are we goun' to do?" demanded Mela, almost crossly. She was
physically too amiable, she felt too well corporeally, ever to be quite
cross. "She might 'a' knowed--well known--we couldn't 'a' come alone, in
New York. I don't see why, we couldn't. I don't call it much of an
invitation."

"I suppose she thought you could come with your mother," Mrs. Mandel
suggested.

"She didn't say anything about mother: Did she, Christine? Or, yes, she
did, too. And I told her she couldn't git mother out. Don't you
remember?"

"I didn't pay much attention," said Christine. "I wasn't certain we
wanted to go."

"I reckon you wasn't goun' to let her see that we cared much," said Mela,
half reproachful, half proud of this attitude of Christine. "Well, I
don't see but what we got to stay at home." She laughed at this lame
conclusion of the matter.

"Perhaps Mr. Conrad--you could very properly take him without an express
invitation--" Mrs. Mandel began.

Conrad looked up in alarm and protest. "I--I don't think I could go that
evening--"

"What's the reason?" his father broke in, harshly. "You're not such a
sheep that you're afraid to go into company with your sisters? Or are you
too good to go with them?"

"If it's to be anything like that night when them hussies come out and
danced that way," said Mrs. Dryfoos, "I don't blame Coonrod for not
wantun' to go. I never saw the beat of it."

Mela sent a yelling laugh across the table to her mother. "Well, I wish
Miss Vance could 'a' heard that! Why, mother, did you think it like the
ballet?"

"Well, I didn't know, Mely, child," said the old woman. "I didn't know
what it was like. I hain't never been to one, and you can't be too
keerful where you go, in a place like New York."

"What's the reason you can't go?" Dryfoos ignored the passage between his
wife and daughter in making this demand of his son, with a sour face.

"I have an engagement that night--it's one of our meetings."

"I reckon you can let your meeting go for one night," said Dryfoos. "It
can't be so important as all that, that you must disappoint your
sisters."

"I don't like to disappoint those poor creatures. They depend so much
upon the meetings--"

"I reckon they can stand it for one night," said the old man. He added,
"The poor ye have with you always."

"That's so, Coonrod," said his mother. "It's the Saviour's own words."

"Yes, mother. But they're not meant just as father used them."

"How do you know how they were meant? Or how I used them?" cried the
father. "Now you just make your plans to go with the girls, Tuesday
night. They can't go alone, and Mrs. Mandel can't go with them."

"Pshaw!" said Mela. "We don't want to take Conrad away from his meetun',
do we, Chris?"

"I don't know," said Christine, in her high, fine voice. "They could get
along without him for one night, as father says."

"Well, I'm not a-goun' to take him," said Mela. "Now, Mrs. Mandel, just
think out some other way. Say! What's the reason we couldn't get somebody
else to take us just as well? Ain't that rulable?"

"It would be allowable--"

"Allowable, I mean," Mela corrected herself.

"But it might look a little significant, unless it was some old family
friend."

"Well, let's get Mr. Fulkerson to take us. He's the oldest family friend
we got."

"I won't go with Mr. Fulkerson," said Christine, serenely.

"Why, I'm sure, Christine," her mother pleaded, "Mr. Fulkerson is a very
good young man, and very nice appearun'."

Mela shouted, "He's ten times as pleasant as that old Mr. Beaton of
Christine's!"

Christine made no effort to break the constraint that fell upon the table
at this sally, but her father said: "Christine is right, Mela. It
wouldn't do for you to go with any other young man. Conrad will go with
you."

"I'm not certain I want to go, yet," said Christine.

"Well, settle that among yourselves. But if you want to go, your brother
will go with you."

"Of course, Coonrod 'll go, if his sisters wants him to," the old woman
pleaded. "I reckon it ain't agoun' to be anything very bad; and if it is,
Coonrod, why you can just git right up and come out."

"It will be all right, mother. And I will go, of course."

"There, now, I knowed you would, Coonrod. Now, fawther!" This appeal was
to make the old man say something in recognition of Conrad's sacrifice.

"You'll always find," he said, "that it's those of your own household
that have the first claim on you."

"That's so, Coonrod," urged his mother. "It's Bible truth. Your fawther
ain't a perfesser, but he always did read his Bible. Search the
Scriptures. That's what it means."

"Laws!" cried Mely, "a body can see, easy enough from mother, where
Conrad's wantun' to be a preacher comes from. I should 'a' thought she'd
'a' wanted to been one herself."

"Let your women keep silence in the churches," said the old woman,
solemnly.

"There you go again, mother! I guess if you was to say that to some of
the lady ministers nowadays, you'd git yourself into trouble." Mela
looked round for approval, and gurgled out a hoarse laugh.


IX.

The Dryfooses went late to Mrs. Horn's musicale, in spite of Mrs.
Mandel's advice. Christine made the delay, both because she wished to
show Miss Vance that she was (not) anxious, and because she had some
vague notion of the distinction of arriving late at any sort of
entertainment. Mrs. Mandel insisted upon the difference between this
musicale and an ordinary reception; but Christine rather fancied
disturbing a company that had got seated, and perhaps making people rise
and stand, while she found her way to her place, as she had seen them do
for a tardy comer at the theatre.

Mela, whom she did not admit to her reasons or feelings always, followed
her with the servile admiration she had for all that Christine did; and
she took on trust as somehow successful the result of Christine's
obstinacy, when they were allowed to stand against the wall at the back
of the room through the whole of the long piece begun just before they
came in. There had been no one to receive them; a few people, in the rear
rows of chairs near them, turned their heads to glance at them, and then
looked away again. Mela had her misgivings; but at the end of the piece
Miss Vance came up to them at once, and then Mela knew that she had her
eyes on them all the time, and that Christine must have been right.
Christine said nothing about their coming late, and so Mela did not make
any excuse, and Miss Vance seemed to expect none. She glanced with a sort
of surprise at Conrad, when Christine introduced him; Mela did not know
whether she liked their bringing him, till she shook hands with him, and
said: "Oh, I am very glad indeed! Mr. Dryfoos and I have met before."
Without explaining where or when, she led them to her aunt and presented
them, and then said, "I'm going to put you with some friends of yours,"
and quickly seated them next the Marches. Mela liked that well enough;
she thought she might have some joking with Mr. March, for all his wife
was so stiff; but the look which Christine wore seemed to forbid,
provisionally at least, any such recreation. On her part, Christine was
cool with the Marches. It went through her mind that they must have told
Miss Vance they knew her; and perhaps they had boasted of her intimacy.
She relaxed a little toward them when she saw Beaton leaning against the
wall at the end of the row next Mrs. March. Then she conjectured that he
might have told Miss Vance of her acquaintance with the Marches, and she
bent forward and nodded to Mrs. March across Conrad, Mela, and Mr. March.
She conceived of him as a sort of hand of her father's, but she was
willing to take them at their apparent social valuation for the time. She
leaned back in her chair, and did not look up at Beaton after the first
furtive glance, though she felt his eyes on her.

The music began again almost at once, before Mela had time to make Conrad
tell her where Miss Vance had met him before. She would not have minded
interrupting the music; but every one else seemed so attentive, even
Christine, that she had not the courage. The concert went onto an end
without realizing for her the ideal of pleasure which one ought to find.
in society. Half have the mistaken belief in their own indispensability,
to unbehilflich to return einzulenken and procedures sub-plot in the right
track back, as people embarrassed by the faithfulness with which the
Emperor and his soldiers treuvergessenen word was, and by the same
magnanimous, what ebenjetzt far longer than he had ever undertaken, as
soldiers deeply moved, as the captain put them in view, the triumph of
their fellow citizens than to have people watching and because he is no
longer "comrades" was called, but "citizens" and with that out of
his mouth so strange sounding title like in a day all their proud past,
soldiers destroyed, and all under the irresistible spell of the formidable
people - the soldiers were silent for a while and zaudernd up from all
sides the cry yell that the captain them back to grace and accept them
again allow fans, Caesar's soldiers to be hot. Caesar allowed, after he
had enough to ask leave, the ringleader of this mutiny, but was at its
Triumphalgeschenken a Dritteil reduced. A bigger psychological Meisterstueck
not know the story, and none that would be perfect. On the African campaign
had this much at least insofar mutiny detrimental, when the opening of
the same considerably delayed. As for Caesar in the port of embarkation
Lilybaeon arrived, were the ten legions to Africa certain there
are far from being fully assembled and tested at the troops still
at the furthest back.

However, hardly six legions, including five newly formed, arrived daselbst
and necessary war and transport ships arrived, as Caesar in the
same lake pricked (25 December 707 47 of the unadjusted, about 8
October of the Julian calendar).

The enemy's fleet, which the ruling Aequinoktialstuerme due to the
island before the Carthaginian Aegimuros cove on the beach was pulled,
prevented the crossing not only the same Stuermer fleet scattered in all
directions Caesar, Caesar, and as near Hadrumetum (Susa) the
opportunity to ersah land, he could not be more than about 3000 men,
mostly recruits, and 150 riders disembark. The attempt by the enemy
occupied strong Hadrumetum away, failed, while Caesar took possession of
the two is not far distant from each other Hafenplaetze Ruspina (Monastir
at Susa), and small Leptis. Here he is entrenched, but his position was
so precarious that his rider on the ships and sail, and with water
supply which was, at any moment if he should transfer power to be
attacked again be able to embark. However, this was not necessary as yet
to be precisely the right time, the vessels concerned devious (January 3
708 46). At the following days made Caesar, whose army following
the Pompeianern taken by the institutions suffered from lack of grain,
with three legions, a train in the inner country, but was not far from
Ruspina on the marches of the Heerhaufen attacked, the Labienus heranfuehrte
to Caesar from the coast to sell. Labienus Since only cavalry and
protect Caesar almost nothing had as a line infantry, the legions were
surrounded quickly and the bullets of the enemy divulged without reply
with success or be able to attack. Admittedly, the Deployierung across the
wings again and courageous attacks saved the honor of arms, only the
withdrawal was inevitable and would Ruspina not been so close, it would
throw the Moorish Peer perhaps here the same orientation, which is Karrhae
the parthische Archery . Caesar, to this day from all over the difficulty
of the impending war had convinced, wanted his untried and battle through
the new way discouraged any such attack soldiers again suspended, but
waited for the arrival of his veterans from the legions. The interim
time was used to pushing the superiority of the enemy in the Fernwaffen
somewhat offset. That the appropriate people from the fleet as light
horsemen or protecting the land army ceased, could not be much help.
Slightly more impacted by Caesar led Diversion. It succeeded, at the
southern slope of the Great Atlas of the Sahara to the tail gaetulischen
Hirtenstaemme to Juba to bring in weapons, because even up to them
had the worst of the Marianas sullanischen time is to apply and their
resentment against Pompey, who at that time numidischen subordinate
to the kings had made them the heirs of the powerful, they still
Jugurthinischen campaign from her living in good souvenir Marius
tilted from the outset.

Beaton talked with Christine the greater part of the evening that was
left after the concert. He was very grave, and took the tone of a
fatherly friend; he spoke guardedly of the people present, and moderated
the severity of some of Christine's judgments of their looks and
costumes. He did this out of a sort of unreasoned allegiance to Margaret,
whom he was in the mood of wishing to please by being very kind and good,
as she always was. He had the sense also of atoning by this behavior for
some reckless things he had said before that to Christine; he put on a
sad, reproving air with her, and gave her the feeling of being held in
check.

She chafed at it, and said, glancing at Margaret in talk with her
brother, "I don't think Miss Vance is so very pretty, do you?"

"I never think whether she's pretty or not," said Becton, with dreamy,
affectation. "She is merely perfect. Does she know your brother?"

"So she says. I didn't suppose Conrad ever went anywhere, except to
tenement-houses."

"It might have been there," Becton suggested. In Sardinia, and in inner
Asia Minor was the band business endemic in Africa and in the
Hereafter Spain made it necessary, all outside the urban scale
building walls ring with walls and towers in place.

He added: "I am so glad you
know her, Miss Dryfoos. I never met Miss Vance without feeling myself
better and truer, somehow; or the wish to be so."

"And you think we might be improved, too?" Christine retorted. "Well, I
must say you're not very flattering, Mr. Becton, anyway."

Becton would have liked to answer her according to her cattishness, with
a good clawing sarcasm that would leave its smart in her pride; but he
was being good, and he could not change all at once. Also left hand San
Antonio, as the San Jose have enough help the enemies of the crown to
come to this river, and from there to egecutar all the transactions that
drive their ideas. Whose intelligence to play something on the evils
that we might rise if the enemy were to look at the port of San Jose, Rio
Black or color. In the port of San Jose may very well remain under
considerable time either squad food, for water that has that port, but
very withdrawn about four miles from the beach, since only half the
circumference of a salt has more than 30 sources of water: in which
case, bringing animals and wagons to drive, and may be: but easier
in small boats can be driven from this river to the port. Fixed that were
on this river and port of St. Joseph's enemies were in proportion
to invade Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Mendoza, Valdivia, Valparaiso and
many other peoples, because coupled with the Indians who inhabit this
vast country, it would make dificultosísimo back. The guards that you
have projected into the Choelechel, you should bear in mind that,
besides being useful to contain the Indians, as most important of
it, and where in my opinion is absolutely necessary, because it is
the Indians have withdrawn from the lake, they can be so harmful
to us if this coast invaded by the enemies of crown, with whom they
could unite in their own interest: and it would always be far removed
from Indian ports, so if it is true that I have said, did not have
the ease of being with them, even the Indians had could not acquire
such news.

Dejo other benefits that we provide the occupation of that port as they
are, to have advanced much for the communication of Mendoza, (who believe
there about) what is to hasten the discovery of this river and Valdivia
path, which we could find, because I do not think, from the Choelechel to
that prison, over 100 miles away in a straight line, more or
less. Ténganse this intelligence to view the maps and the advantages
of this river lands, according to contest all Indians, in which timber
is very high and very right, and mountains of apples, which nature has
produced, whose signals seem to indicate a fertile ground. But if you do
not see, if you're not, but we found if we put into our ignorance, and
perhaps some time will teach us of our own foreign lands, and what we
should know: since I can not see that as an English teaching us
Falkner and individual giving news of the corners of our house, which
we ignore. suspend the descriptions of Choelechel, as well as I have
indicated to spread your record.

Margaret drew in her lip before she answered, without apparent resentment
of the awkwardness or ungraciousness, whichever she found it: "I don't
wonder! You become so absorbed in such work that you think nothing else
is worth while. But I'm glad Mr. Dryfoos could come with you; I'm so glad
you could all come; I knew you would enjoy the music. Do sit down--"

"No," said Christine, bluntly; "we must be going. Mela!" she called out,
"come!"

The last group about Mrs. Horn looked round, but Christine advanced upon
them undismayed, and took the hand Mrs. Horn promptly gave her. "Well, I
must bid you good-night."

"Oh, good-night," murmured the elder lady. "So very kind of you to come."

"I've had the best kind of a time," said Mela, cordially. "I hain't
laughed so much, I don't know when."

"Oh, I'm glad you enjoyed it," said Mrs. Horn, in the same polite murmur
she had used with Christine; but she said nothing to either sister about
any future meeting.

They were apparently not troubled. Mela said over her shoulder to the
student of human nature, "The next time I see you I'll give it to you for
what you said about Moffitt."

Margaret made some entreating paces after them, but she did not succeed
in covering the retreat of the sisters against critical conjecture. She
could only say to Conrad, as if recurring to the subject, "I hope we can
get our friends to play for us some night. I know it isn't any real help,
but such things take the poor creatures out of themselves for the time
being, don't you think?"

"Oh yes," he answered. "They're good in that way." He turned back
hesitatingly to Mrs. Horn, and said, with a blush, "I thank you for a
happy evening."

"Oh, I am very glad," she replied, in her murmur.

One of the old friends of the house arched her eyebrows in saying
good-night, and offered the two young men remaining seats home in her
carriage. Beaton gloomily refused, and she kept herself from asking the
student of human nature, till she had got him into her carriage, "What is
Moffitt, and what did you say about it?"

"Now you see, Margaret," said Mrs. Horn, with bated triumph, when the
people were all gone.

"Yes, I see," the girl consented. "From one point of view, of course it's
been a failure. It looks like this is an attempt, the old royal authority
within the city of Rome, to which the democratic history of the monarch
offered new restrictions, to be renewed completely, so by officials,
except the king himself, the only Stadtpraefekten during the Koenig's
absence and the people to protect the freedom and Volksaedilen
tribunes ordered to be maintained, but the consulate, the censorship,
the Praetur the kurulische Aedilitaet and Quaestur wiederabzuschaffen
^ 15 Meanwhile Caesar was informed later again: neither he himself
took the title king , nor repaid those he honored with the glorious
history of the Republic Overgrown name.

The consuls, praetor, Aedilen, tribunes and Quaestors remained essentially
their existing skills formally, but their position was nevertheless
entirely converted. It was the political idea of the Republic, that
the Roman empire in the city of Rome to rise and therefore were
consistently the metropolitan, municipal officials as an empire had
been treated.

In Caesar's monarchy coincided with that view, even this result
away, officials in Rome now formed only the first among the many
Reichsmunizipalitaeten, and notably the consulate was a pure
Titularposten, just by the be subject of a higher Expektanz
governorship a certain practical significance preserved.

The fate of the Roman community to prepare the subject have been
accustomed, by Caesar befell her own: her sovereignty over the
Roman Empire transformed itself into a limited local freedom within
the Roman state.

The fact that both the number of Quaestors praetor and was doubled, it was
already mentioned, the same happened with regard to the Volksaedilen,
including two new "Getreideaedilen" (aediles Ceriale) to monitor the
intake metropolitan added.

The occupation of these posts has remained the community with regard
to the ward and consuls, and perhaps also the Volkstribune and
Volksaedilen not limited, that for half of a year to be appointed
praetor, kurulischen Aedilen Quaestors and the one the Emperor
Choose a binding legal proposal received was in the merits mention.

Overall, the main altheiligen Palladien of the People's freedom is
not compromised, which of course does not prevent against the
individual essays Volkstribun intervene seriously, indeed it off
and removed from the list of senators to be deleted.

By then the Emperor for the broader and more important questions his
own minister was, he finances through his servants, the army dominated
by his aide, by the old Republican Staatsaemter again Gemeindeaemter in
the city of Rome was converted, was sufficient justification for
autocracy. ----------------------------------------- ^ 15 Therefore,
because the tentative phrases in Mention of these posts in Caesar's
laws: cum aliusve censor magistratus Romae quis populi censum aget
(Lex IUL.

Munic., Z. 144); isve praetor quei Romae iure deicundo praerit (Lex Rubr.
often); QUAESTOR urban queive aerario praerit (Lex IUL .

Munic., Z. u. 37 oe).. ------------------------------------- ----
In the ecclesiastical hierarchy, however, Caesar, although he also
offers this part of the state budget enacted a comprehensive law,
no significant geneuert, except that he Oberpontifikat and perhaps
the membership of the higher priesthood Kollegienhaus all over with
the person of the Regent linked, thereby it is partly linked to the
fact that in the three highest Kollegienhaus one, the fourth in the
men treat three new posts were created.

The Roman state had been the ruling oligarchy served to support, so she
could ebendenselben service of the new monarchy afford.

The conservative religious policy of the Senate went over to the new kings
of Rome, than the strictly conservative Varro at this time his'
Antiquities of the divine things', the main-land and theology of
the Roman state, made known, he was allowed the same Oberpontifex
Caesar zueignen.

The dull sheen, the Joviskult still managed to give, wrapped around
the newly-established throne, and the old country believe was in
his last stages of the tool of a house made from one hollow and
feeble Caesaropapismus.

The court system was first the old royal courts restored. As Koenig
originally in criminal and civil cases judges had been in those without
the grace body of the people, in these to the transfer of the
contested decision of the question for juries to be legally bound:
so Caesar took the right, dishes such as blood private processes
to sole and final decision is to be drawn in case of its presence
even in the event of his absence by the Stadtverweser done.

In fact, we find him, according to the manner of the ancient kings,
partly on the public markets of the capital to sit on court of high
treason accused of Roman citizens, sometimes in his house hold court
on the accused for the same offense Klientelfuersten, so that the
prerogative the Roman citizens from the other subjects of the King
had provided, but in public the court hearing, there seems to have.

However, this could Reawakening Royal Oberrichtertum, although
Caesar with impartiality and care that underwent the same, but the
nature of things after really only Ausnahmefaellen to apply.

For the ordinary course in criminal law and civil matters remained beside
the current Republican administration of justice essentially exist.

The criminal cases were still before the execution of their various crimes
for the individual jurors competent commissions, some civil matters
before the inheritance or the so-called "Hundertmaennergericht",
sometimes before the individual jurors and the management of the
courts was, as usual, in the capital mainly by the praetor, in the
provinces by the governors procured.

Even the political crimes were even under the monarchy of a Commission
of Jurors had the new policy, enacted for the same Caesar, specified the
crimes punishable by law and in liberal exact, every attitude
prosecution and continued as the death penalty is not fixed, but
the banishment.

Regarding the selection of jurors, the only party senator from the Senate,
the strict Gracchaner exclusively from the state chose Knight
wanted to know, let Caesar, true to the principle of reconciliation
of parties to the transaction when it Cottas laws, but with probably
even by the law Pompey's from the year 699 (55) prepared modification
that from the lower strata of the people resulting Aerartribunen
eliminated, thus preserving a jury of at least 400,000 census
Sestertius (30000 Taler) was fixed, and senators and knights in the
jury functions, so long as the bone of contention between them had
been, now is shared.

The ratio of the royal and republican jurisdiction was competing
in the whole nature, so that each matter before the court as Koenig
tinkering before the Republican Court of Justice could be made,
whereby in the event of a conflict of course the latter zurueckstand
, on the other hand, if one or other of the trial court had gefaellt,
so finally the thing was done. to upset one in a civil or a criminal
case by the appointed jury verdict was felled, the new ruler has
no power except where special moments , for example, bribery or
violence, even under the law of the Republic of the appeal of the
jury award unfruitful.

On the other hand, received the sentence that merely because of any
decree of this Magistratischen complained to the supervisor of the
department was entitled to appeal, perhaps even now the great
expansion of the later imperial appellation instance has emerged:
there were perhaps all legal Magistrate speaking, but at least the
governor of all provinces so far as sub-ruler of the officers viewed
that each of its decrees to the same appeal could be filed.

However, these innovations, of which the most important, the generalization
of the appellation, not even necessarily about the improvement can
be counted, the damages to which the Roman court daniederlag, not
healed up. The criminal process can not be healthy slave state,
because the case against slavery, if not legally, but actually in the
hands of the Lord is. The Roman understandably Lord punishes the crime
of his servant is not consistently as such, but only insofar as
the slave of him uncomfortable or made unusable, and the slaves
were criminals just discarded, such as the stoessigen oxen, and,
as such to the butcher, so those in the Fechtbude sold.

But the criminal process against free, the door from the political
process and to have always remained good part, had in the desert
and bustle of the last generations of a serious legal trade is
converted into a favor, money and violence beating gang battle.

The debt was due to all parties at the same time, the officials of
the jury, the parties, even the viewer audience, but the wounds
suggested unheilbarsten the bustle of the rights advocates.

As the parasite plant of the Roman Advokatenberedsamkeit prospered,
were all positive legal terms and decomposes the audience so hard
obvious difference between opinion and evidence from the Roman
criminal law practice actually expelled.

"A pretty poor accused," says a much more experienced this time,
Roman Law, "may appear on any crimes that he committed or not
guilty, are accused and will certainly be condemned."

It is from this era numerous pleas in criminal cases receive little one
is such that even seriously attempted, the crimes in question and
to fix the proof or evidence to formulate ^ 16 The fact that
simultaneous Civil was also often unhealthy, we need hardly mention,
he also suffered from the consequences of everything mengenden party
politics, such as for example in the process of Publius Quinctius
(671-673 83-81), the decisions were CONTRARY, depending on Cinna
or Sulla in Rome had the upper hand, and the lawyers, often
non-lawyers, donated here intentionally and unintentionally confusing
enough.

But it was but in the nature of things that some of the party here are
only exceptionally einmengte, sometimes the Advokatenrabulistik
not so fast and not so deep the legal concepts could dissolve, as
well as the Zivilplaedoyers that we have from this era, although
not according to our strict terms advokat good fonts, but far less
libellistischen and far more legal content than the same crime
speeches.

If Caesar of Pompey Advokatenberedsamkeit by her muzzle had created him,
or even worse, at least nothing was lost and much was gained, when
better and better supervised officers and juries have been appointed and
clear and the bribery and intimidation of the courts took an end .

But the holy Rechtsgefuehl and reverence before the law, heavily
in the minds of the quantity to be disrupted, are harder still
wiederzuerzeugen.

As the legislature intended multiple abuse, the reason he could not
claim to cure, and there was doubt whether the time that heals all
curable, will get help here. --------------- ----------------------------------
^ 16 "Wide often in," says Cicero in his statement to the Speech
Arts (De ESPON. 2, 42, 178), first in relation to the criminal
process, "you dislike or affection or partiality or bitterness or
pain or joy or hope or fear or deception, or even a passion Wahrspruch
of the people than the evidence or the rule or a legal rule or the
process of instruction, or the law. " This is because the further
instruction for the aspiring Sachwalterschaft founded.
-------------------------------------- ----------- The Roman military
was about this time in the same constitution as the Carthaginian
Hannibal at the time.

The ruling classes sent only the officers and the subjects shank, Provincial
and plebeian, formed the army.

The captain was from the central government financial and military almost
independently and in luck, as in much unhappiness on themselves and on
the resources of his district instructed.

Citizens and even sense of national armies had disappeared from the
inner band and a unique esprit de corps of the left.

The army had stopped a tool of the community to be, politically, it had
its own will not, but they managed to adapt itself to the Foreman,
the military fell under the ordinary miserable lead to a resolution,
rotting garbage down, but also developed under the Right field is
a Lord of the military Buergerheer unattainable perfection.

The officer status was mainly in the deepest depression. The higher
social classes, senators and knights weaned more and more of the weapons.
If one else makes the staff officer positions had zealously advertised,
it was now every man of rank knight who wants to serve, a safe and
Kriegstribunenstelle already had some of those items with lower status
men are busy, but about who is actually of the nobles was still looking
at least his service in Sicily or dismiss another province, where
one certainly was not before the enemy to come.

Officers of habitual bravura and usability were the wonders of the
sea as angestaunt, including how his time with Pompey received them
in every way unreasonably compromising military idolatry.

For outliers, such as the mutiny was in the rule of the rod signal,
despite the culpably commanding view of the requests for appeal
were distinguished officers everyday incidents.

Still we have of Caesar's own hand is not without irony picture, as in
his own headquarters, as it should go against Ariovist, swear and
tears and testaments and even leave applications was worked.

In the shank were soldiers of the better stalls no trace left to discover.
Legally, there was still conscription, conscription was alone when
it comes to recruiting the next came loose in regular manner, and many
were on Obligatory received and once occurred thirty years or longer
with the eagles recorded. The Roman cavalry Buergermeister vegetated only
as a kind of Nobel Mounted Guard, whose fragrant ointment cavaliers and
selected luxury horses only in the metropolitan festivals played a role,
the so-called citizen referendum was a foot from the lowest strata of
the population Buergermeister zusammengeraffte Lanzknechttruppe, the
subjects were the cavalry and light troops exclusively and began to walk
in the increasingly popular mitverwendet them. The
Rottenfuehrerstellen in the legions, on which at the time Kriegfuehrung
the efficiency of departments and much of which was based on the national
Constitution of the war a soldier with the Pike is served up, were now
not only regularly awarded after favor but not infrequently sold to the
highest bidder . The payment of the Soldes was in poor financial
management by the government and the Feilheit and fraud of the great
majority of officials highly defective and irregular. The
necessary consequence was that in the ordinary course of things
the Roman armies, the provinces ausraubten against the officers meuterten
and against the enemies davonliefen it came before that considerable armies,
such as the Macedonian Piso in the year 697 (57), without actual defeat,
simply by this mismanagement has been completely ruined.

Boost, however, like Pompey, Caesar, Gabinius, probably formed from the
existing material efficient and quick-witted, sometimes lasting
patterns armies alone it is this army rather than its military
leaders to the community.

The far more complete decay of the Roman navy, the other to all the Romans
and never antipathisch remained totally nationalized was hardly needs
mentioning. It was also here on all sides under the oligarchic
regiment had been ruined, what ever could be ruined.

Reorganization of the Roman Caesars Militaerwesens is essentially that,
under the existing overhead flaccid and incapable of relaxation of the
reins again taut discipline and firm to attract . A radical reform
seemed to him the Roman military either does not need or may not capable,
the elements of the army, he accepted, Hannibal ebenwie they had accepted.
The determination of his community order, that order before the
thirtieth year a municipal office or to sit in council, a service
for every three horses - that is to say as an officer - or a
sechsjaehriger on foot was required, demonstrates well that he
stands in the better the army wishes to draw, but also equally clear
that the increasingly tearing unkriegerischen spirit of the nation
he no longer thought to be possible, the clothing of a voluntary
service of the Ueberstehung necessarily as former ones.

Ebendaraus it will declare that Caesar made no attempt to restore Roman
citizen cavalry. The digging was better organized, regulated, and the
abbreviated service, remained there to keep the line infantry, mainly from
the lower stands of the Roman residents, the cavalry and light infantry
from the subjects shaft was excavated - that for the reorganization
of the navy nothing happened, is striking.

Without a doubt their creator even safer innovation to the unreliability
of the subjects forced cavalry, it was that first Caesar of the
Roman system abwich, never Söldner fence, in the cavalry and hired
foreigners, including Germans, materialize.

Another innovation was the establishment of the Legion adjutant (legati
legionis). Until then, the part of residents, and partly by the
governor appointed in the manner Kriegstribune legions run that same six
each were prefixed and under the command changed this, a single
commander of the Legion only temporarily and ordered the captain
ausserordentlicherweise. In later times however appear that the Supreme
Legion or Legion adjutant partly as a permanent institution and organic,
sometimes not more than appointed by the governor, which they obey, but
by the high command in Rome, both seem to Caesars Gabin law to the
successor bodies back. The reason for the introduction of this important
intermediate step in the military hierarchy is partly in the need of a
strong centralization of command, and partly in the lack of tactile
libelous top officers, in part, and especially with the intention
to seek, by assigning one or more appointed by the Emperor Supreme
to the governor to provide a counterweight. The significant change in
the military was the establishment of a permanent war heads in the
Emperor, who, instead of the previous unmilitary and in every respect
incompetent Government College, the entire army regiment in his hands
joined and therefore the same from a mostly only nominal management in a
real and strong high command umschuf . We are not duly informed of the
manner in which this supreme command on the hitherto omnipotent in their
Sprengeln presented special commands. Probably it was in general of the
analogy between the consul and the praetor or the consul and dictator
obwaltenden ratio based so that the governor is at the highest military
authority in his district retained, but the Emperor at every moment
the same from him and for himself or his officers to take power and that,
while the violence of the governor to the district was limited, the
return of the Emperor, as the King and the older consular, is across the
entire empire lasted. It is most likely already the appointment of officers,
both of Kriegstribune than the centurions, as far as they have
allowed the governor ^ 17, as well as the appointment of the new
Legion adjutant directly to the Emperor came and just as fans are
already ordering the digging, the farewell issue, the more important
Kriminalfaelle to the high command have been withdrawn.

In this limit the powers of the governor and the regulated control
of the Emperor fernerhin was not easy, not a complete abandonment
of armies nor a transformation in the same personal followings of
individual officers to fear.

    However, it decided
    also to the ratio Militaermonarchie hindraengten
    Caesar and so determines the supreme command for
    himself only took, he was nevertheless
    far-minded, its force
    by the army and to be justified. He kept a standing
    army is necessary for its own
    nationals, but only because its the same geographic
    location for a comprehensive border regulation
    and took crews standing border. Part in earlier eras,
    partly during the last civil war in Spain, he had worked and
satisfaction in Africa along the major desert, in the northwest of
the empire at the Rhine solid line positions for border defense set
up.

With similar plans he has for the landscape on the Euphrates and
the Danube.

Above all, he thought against the Parthians, and to the day of
Karrhae to revenge, he had three years for this war, and was committed
to working with these dangerous enemies once and for all and just
how thoroughly settle gently.

Similarly, he had designed the plan that on both sides of the Danube
enormous spreading Getenkoenig Burebistas attack and also in
northeastern Italy by similar brand to protect, as they land him
in the Celts created.

On the other hand, are by no evidence that Alexander Caesar equal
a victory run into the infinite distance had in mind, it is probably
telling that he made on the part of the Caspian, and from this to
the Black Sea, then on the northern shore to the same Danube to
draw quite Skythien and Germania up to the - after the former notion
of the not too distant Mediterranean Sea - northern ocean to bring
to the rich and Gaul had intended to return, alone, not any credible
authority vouches fabulosen the existence of these projects.

I was just thinking what a different creature a
Massachusetts man is from a Virginian, And yet I suppose they're both as
pure English stock as you'll get anywhere in America. Marsh, I think
Colonel Woodburn's paper is going to make a hit."

"You've got there! When it knocks down the sale about one-half, I shall
know it's made a hit."

"I'm not afraid," said Fulkerson. "That thing is going to attract
attention. It's well written--you can take the pomposity out of it, here
and there and it's novel. Our people like a bold strike, and it's going
to shake them up tremendously to have serfdom advocated on high moral
grounds as the only solution of the labor problem. You see, in the first
place, he goes for their sympathies by the way he portrays the actual
relations of capital and labor; he shows how things have got to go from
bad to worse, and then he trots out his little old hobby, and proves that
if slavery had not been interfered with, it would have perfected itself
in the interest of humanity. He makes a pretty strong plea for it."

March threw back his head and laughed. "He's converted you! I swear,
Fulkerson, if we had accepted and paid for an article advocating
cannibalism as the only resource for getting rid of the superfluous poor,
you'd begin to believe in it."

Fulkerson smiled in approval of the joke, and only said: "I wish you
could meet the colonel in the privacy of the domestic circle, March.
You'd like him. He's a splendid old fellow; regular type. Talk about
spring!

"You ought to see the widow's little back yard these days. You know that
glass gallery just beyond the dining-room? Those girls have got the
pot-plants out of that, and a lot more, and they've turned the edges of
that back yard, along the fence, into a regular bower; they've got sweet
peas planted, and nasturtiums, and we shall be in a blaze of glory about
the beginning of June. Fun to see 'em work in the garden, and the bird
bossing the job in his cage under the cherry-tree. Have to keep the
middle of the yard for the clothesline, but six days in the week it's a
lawn, and I go over it with a mower myself. March, there ain't anything
like a home, is there? Dear little cot of your own, heigh? I tell you,
March, when I get to pushing that mower round, and the colonel is smoking
his cigar in the gallery, and those girls are pottering over the flowers,
one of these soft evenings after dinner, I feel like a human being. Yes,
I do. I struck it rich when I concluded to take my meals at the widow's.
For eight dollars a week I get good board, refined society, and all the
advantages of a Christian home. By-the-way, you've never had much talk
with Miss Woodburn, have you, March?"

"Not so much as with Miss Woodburn's father."

"Well, he is rather apt to scoop the conversation. I must draw his fire,
sometime, when you and Mrs. March are around, and get you a chance with
Miss Woodburn."

"I should like that better, I believe," said March.

"Well, I shouldn't wonder if you did. Curious, but Miss Woodburn isn't at
all your idea of a Southern girl. She's got lots of go; she's never idle
a minute; she keeps the old gentleman in first-class shape, and she don't
believe a bit in the slavery solution of the labor problem; says she's
glad it's gone, and if it's anything like the effects of it, she's glad
it went before her time. No, sir, she's as full of snap as the liveliest
kind of a Northern girl. None of that sunny Southern languor you read
about."

"I suppose the typical Southerner, like the typical anything else, is
pretty difficult to find," said March. "But perhaps Miss Woodburn
represents the new South. The modern conditions must be producing a
modern type."

"Well, that's what she and the colonel both say. They say there ain't
anything left of that Walter Scott dignity and chivalry in the rising
generation; takes too much time. You ought to see her sketch the
old-school, high-and-mighty manners, as they survive among some of the
antiques in Charlottesburg. If that thing could be put upon the stage it
would be a killing success. Makes the old gentleman laugh in spite of
himself. But he's as proud of her as Punch, anyway. Why don't you and
Mrs. March come round oftener? Look here! How would it do to have a
little excursion, somewhere, after the spring fairly gets in its work?"

"Reporters present?"

"No, no! Nothing of that kind; perfectly sincere and disinterested
enjoyment."

"Oh, a few handbills to be scattered around: 'Buy Every Other Week,' 'Look
out for the next number of "Every Other Week,"' 'Every Other Week at all
the news-stands.' Well, I'll talk it over with Mrs. March. I suppose
there's no great hurry."

March told his wife of the idyllic mood in which he had left Fulkerson at
the widow's door, and she said he must be in love.

"Why, of course! I wonder I didn't think of that. But Fulkerson is such
an impartial admirer of the whole sex that you can't think of his liking
one more than another. I don't know that he showed any unjust partiality,
though, in his talk of 'those girls,' as he called them. And I always
rather fancied that Mrs. Mandel--he's done so much for her, you know; and
she is such a well-balanced, well-preserved person, and so lady-like and
correct----"

"Fulkerson had the word for her: academic. She's everything that
instruction and discipline can make of a woman; but I shouldn't think
they could make enough of her to be in love with."

"Well, I don't know. The academic has its charm. There are moods in which
I could imagine myself in love with an academic person. That regularity
of line; that reasoned strictness of contour; that neatness of pose; that
slightly conventional but harmonious grouping of the emotions and
morals--you can see how it would have its charm, the Wedgwood in human
nature? I wonder where Mrs. Mandel keeps her urn and her willow."

"I should think she might have use for them in that family, poor thing!"
said Mrs. March.

"Ah, that reminds me," said her husband, "that we had another talk with
the old gentleman, this afternoon, about Fulkerson's literary, artistic,
and advertising orgie, and it's postponed till October."

"The later the better, I should think," said Mrs. March, who did not
really think about it at all, but whom the date fixed for it caused to
think of the intervening time. "We have got to consider what we will do
about the summer, before long, Basil."

"Oh, not yet, not yet," he pleaded; with that man's willingness to abide
in the present, which is so trying to a woman. "It's only the end of
April."

"It will be the end of June before we know. And these people wanting the
Boston house another year complicates it. We can't spend the summer
there, as we planned."

"They oughtn't to have offered us an increased rent; they have taken an
advantage of us."

"I don't know that it matters," said Mrs. March. "I had decided not to go
there."

"Had you? This is a surprise."

"Everything is a surprise to you, Basil, when it happens."

"True; I keep the world fresh, that way."

"It wouldn't have been any change to go from one city to another for the
summer. We might as well have stayed in New York."

"Yes, I wish we had stayed," said March, idly humoring a conception of
the accomplished fact. "Mrs. Green would have let us have the gimcrackery
very cheap for the summer months; and we could have made all sorts of
nice little excursions and trips off and been twice as well as if we had
spent the summer away."

"Nonsense! You know we couldn't spend the summer in New York."

"I know I could."

"What stuff! You couldn't manage."

"Oh yes, I could. I could take my meals at Fulkerson's widow's; or at
Maroni's, with poor old Lindau: he's got to dining there again. Or, I
could keep house, and he could dine with me here."

There was a teasing look in March's eyes, and he broke into a laugh, at
the firmness with which his wife said: "I think if there is to be any
housekeeping, I will stay, too; and help to look after it. I would try
not intrude upon you and your guest."

"Oh, we should be only too glad to have you join us," said March, playing
with fire.

"Very well, then, I wish you would take him off to Maroni's, the next
time he comes to dine here!" cried his wife.

The experiment of making March's old friend free of his house had not
given her all the pleasure that so kind a thing ought to have afforded so
good a woman. She received Lindau at first with robust benevolence, and
the high resolve not to let any of his little peculiarities alienate her
from a sense of his claim upon her sympathy and gratitude, not only as a
man who had been so generously fond of her husband in his youth, but a
hero who had suffered for her country. Her theory was that his mutilation
must not be ignored, but must be kept in mind as a monument of his
sacrifice, and she fortified Bella with this conception, so that the
child bravely sat next his maimed arm at table and helped him to dishes
he could not reach, and cut up his meat for him. As for Mrs. March
herself, the thought of his mutilation made her a little faint; she was
not without a bewildered resentment of its presence as a sort of
oppression. She did not like his drinking so much of March's beer,
either; it was no harm, but it was somehow unworthy, out of character
with a hero of the war. But what she really could not reconcile herself
to was the violence of Lindau's sentiments concerning the whole political
and social fabric. She did not feel sure that he should be allowed to say
such things before the children, who had been nurtured in the faith of
Bunker Hill and Appomattox, as the beginning and the end of all possible
progress in human rights. As a woman she was naturally an aristocrat, but
as an American she was theoretically a democrat; and it astounded, it
alarmed her, to hear American democracy denounced as a shuffling evasion.
She had never cared much for the United States Senate, but she doubted if
she ought to sit by when it was railed at as a rich man's club. It
shocked her to be told that the rich and poor were not equal before the
law in a country where justice must be paid for at every step in fees and
costs, or where a poor man must go to war in his own person, and a rich
man might hire someone to go in his. Mrs. March felt that this rebellious
mind in Lindau really somehow outlawed him from sympathy, and
retroactively undid his past suffering for the country: she had always
particularly valued that provision of the law, because in forecasting all
the possible mischances that might befall her own son, she had been
comforted by the thought that if there ever was another war, and Tom were
drafted, his father could buy him a substitute. Compared with such
blasphemy as this, Lindau's declaration that there was not equality of
opportunity in America, and that fully one-half the people were debarred
their right to the pursuit of happiness by the hopeless conditions of
their lives, was flattering praise. She could not listen to such things
in silence, though, and it did not help matters when Lindau met her
arguments with facts and reasons which she felt she was merely not
sufficiently instructed to combat, and he was not quite gentlemanly to
urge. After all, the right analogies Ambakten, it's do? Loi misth /
o / toi, to keep the Celtic nobility is not out of the box allowed,
but only gradually, in contrast to the older kingdom as to the
equality of common outdoors have evolved.

So if the Celts Ambaktentum in no altnationale, but a relatively young
institution, it is also, in which between the Celts and Germans for
centuries and continue the existing relationship to be discussed,
not merely possible but even likely that the Celts, in Italy, as
in Gaul, about these weapons hired servants were mostly Germans.

The "Swiss" would be so in this case a few years older than you
think.

If the designation, which, perhaps following the example of the
Celts, the Romans, the Germans as a nation designate the name Germani
really Celtic origin, it is this is so, as you see, in the best
line.

Admittedly, these assumptions must always zurueckstehen, if it succeeds,
the word in a satisfactory way ambactus from Celtic roots to explain
how because JK Zeuss (Grammatica Celtica. Leipzig 1853, p. 796) , though
doubting, and so on, and ambitious = ag = Agere, = Herumbeweger or
Herumbewegter, so attendants, servants back. That the word as a proper
name occurs Celtic (Zeuss, p. 77) and perhaps even in the cambrischen =
amaeth Bauer, workers receive is (Zeuss, p. 156), can not decide side.
^ 8 from the Celtic words guerg = = Breth and Drug Court.
------------------------------------------- --------------------- So,
if the individual Gaue incurable hinsiechten so stirred probably also
powerful in the nation, the feeling of unity and looked in some way,
shape and grip to win. That close collaboration of the entire Celtic
family as opposed to the individual Gauverbaende shattered in the
existing order of things, but awoke and nourishes but also the idea
of Zusammengehoerigkeit of the nation.

Ebendahin impacted by her outside the nation against attacks and
the continuing erosion of their territory in wars with neighbors. As
the Hellenes in the wars against the Persians, in which the Italic
cisalpinischen against Celtic, it seems that transalpinischen Gauls
in the wars against Rome, the existence and power of national unity
is to be realized.

Under the rag of the rival clans and all that bickering feudalistic
made but also the voices of those that comment that the independence
of the nation at the cost of the autonomy of the individual Gaue
and even the rights of Mr. ritterschaftlichen were ready to purchase.

How thoroughly the popular opposition to foreign rule was proved the
wars of Caesar, the Celtic against the Patriot party, a very similar
position as did the German patriots against Napoleon: for its size
and its organization reflects, inter alia, the Telegraph speed with
which they are announced News .

The general public and the power of the Celtic national consciousness
would be inexplicable, if not the biggest political fragmentation of the
Celtic nation has long been religiously and theologically itself
would have been centralized.

The Celtic priests, or with the native name, the corporation consisted
of the Druids to the British Isles and in Gaul, and perhaps some
other Celtic countries with a common religious and national ties.

She stood under a separate head, the priest himself is elected,
with their own schools in which the very extensive tradition was
reproduced, with its own privileges, including exemption from taxes
and military service, which everyone respected clan, with annual
Konzilien, in Chartres in the "heart of the Celtic world" were held,
and above all a faithful community that is embarrassing to piety
and blind obedience to her priests today, where the Irish nothing
seems to have.

It is understandable that such a priesthood and the secular regiment
to usurp tried and partially tore itself: it led, where the Jahrkoenigtum
existed in the case of an interregnum the elections, they successfully
took the right of individual men and entire communities of religious and
consequently also exclude the civil community, they knew the most
important civil matters, including border and succession processes
in this area, they developed, based as it appears on their right to
exclude from the community, and perhaps also to the customary land,
that the usual human victims preferably criminals were taken, an extensive
priestly criminal jurisdiction, with the kings and Vergobreten competed
it even took the decision about war and peace time. It was not far from
a state church with the Pope and Konzilien with immunities, interdict
and spiritual courts, except that the Church does not state how the
modern times, abstracted from the nations, but above all, was
nationally.

But if that is the feeling of Zusammengehoerigkeit among the Celtic
tribes with full vitality awakes, so it was still the nation fails to a
stop point to get political centralization, as Italy at the Roman
residents, Greeks and Germans on the Macedonian and Frankish kings were.
The Celtic priests and also the Adelschaft, although both in a sense the
nation represented and combined, were but one part of their estates, because
incapable of particularist interests, to some, but powerful enough for any
king and not the work of Gau agreement permit. Approaches to the same are
not missing, they went, as the Gauverfassung it to the hand was the
path of hegemony system. The powerful canton of the weaker, he is
subordinate in the manner that the community leading to the outside and
the other mitvertrat in Staatsvertraegen for them mitstipulierte of
Klientelgau opposed to military consequence, probably also a tribute to
shooting committed. In this way arose a series of Sonderbuenden: a leading
Gau Celts for the whole country, an it even loose federation of the
entire nation did not exist. It was already mentioned that the Romans
at the beginning of their conquests transalpinischen there in the
north a British-Belgian federal government under the leadership of the
Suessiones, in the middle and the southern Gaul Arvernerkonfoederation
witnessed with which the latter Haeduer with its weaker rival clientele.
In Caesar's time, we find the BELGIUM Dutch Spanish German French
in northeast Gaul between Seine and Rhine still in such a community, which,
however, as it seems in Britain no longer extends; appears next to them
in today's Normandy and Brittany of the Federation of aremorikanischen,
which means the Seegaue ; in the middle or the actual Gaul wrestle former
two parties as to the hegemony of the one headed by the Haeduer are, on
the other hand, after the Arverni through the wars with Rome weakened,
were resigned to Sequaner. These various independent Confederation
stood side by side, the leading states of Central Gaul their clientele
seem never to the north-eastern and seriously probably not to the northwest
of Gaul extends it. The desire for freedom of the nation took place in
these Gauverbaenden a certain satisfaction, but they were in all respects
but inadequate. The connection was the most flexible, stable alliance
between hegemony and fluctuating nature, the representation of the
totality of the peace by the Bundestag, in the wars by ^ 9 Duke in the
highest grade weakly. Only the Belgian Confederation seems held together
something solid to have the national recovery, from which the lucky
Kimbrer the defense showed it might have benefited from his. The rivalry
for the hegemony made a crack in every single federal government,
the time is not included, but extended, because even the victory
of one of the rival political opponents had the same existence,
even though he added that the clientele was always allowed remained
the fight to renew later.

The rivalry of the more powerful Gaue divided not just this, but in each
clan dependent, in every village, every so often in the home, he
continued, by each according to his personal party seized. How aufrieb
Hellas is not so much in the struggle of Athens against Sparta in the
inner strife Athens and lakedaemonischer factions in all communities,
even in Athens itself: it also has the rivalry between the Arverni and
Haeduer with their repetition in a small and ever smaller scale the
Kelterwolk destroyed. ---------------------------------------------
^ 9 What position, such a Federal captain over his people rise against,
shows the charge levied against Vercingetorix on treason (Caes. Gall.
7, 20). --------------------- ------------------------ The defensive of
the nation felt the backlash of this political and social relationships.
The cavalry was quite predominant weapon in the woneben Belge and even
more so in the British Isles altnationalen the chariots appear in
remarkable improvement. These as well as many skilled riders and
Wagenkaempferscharen were formed from the aristocracy and his men,
because even the really chivalrously in dogs and horses and had his
desire is much more cost-let, noble steeds foreign race to ride. For the
spirit and the struggle of these nobles, it is significant that
when the array was issued, some of them who are able to keep horses, even
the old man hochbejahrte with aufsass, and that, in the term with a low
estimate of enemies to battle start, man for man swore, house and
yard to try to avoid them, if their troop is not at least twice by the
enemy's line would be. Among the hired men was the Lanzknechttum with
all its entsittlichten and entgeistigten indifferent to foreign and
private life - that show the stories, anecdotal as they are also colored
by the Celtic custom, in the banquet to joke about rapiers and occasionally
on the life and death fence, by the prevailing there, even the Roman
Games fencers ueberbietenden still use, is against a certain sum
of money or a number of wine barrels for sale for slaughter and
before the eyes of the entire volume on the shields hingestreckt
the death of String voluntarily accept.

Besides these sticks joined the People walk into the background. In essence
it is much more like the Celtic hordes, which the Romans in Italy and
Spain had ment under. The big sign was then the main weir, played under
the arms instead of the sword on the other hand, the long kick Lanze the
first role. Where several Gaue led allied war, camped and fought clan
against clan, of course, there is no sign that the array of individual
Gaues military structure and smaller and even tactical units would have
formed. Still took a long car Keltenheer the bullish after the luggage,
instead of the entrenched camp, as the nightly Roemer suggested, still
served the poor surrogate of the wagons. From each Gauen, such as the
Nervii, is their exceptional ability to walk people stressed, it is
noteworthy that precisely this had no chivalry, and perhaps not even
Celtic, but a German immigrant tribe were. In general, there appears
the Celtic people walk this time as a burdensome and unkriegerischer
country storm, most in the southern countryside, where the Rohen the bravery
had waned. The Celt, says Caesar, dare not, the Germans in battle into the
eye to see even sharper than that of the Roman ruling criticized the
Celtic infantry captain by the fact that, after having it in his first
campaign had met, he never again in connection with the Roman has used.
Ueberblick our overall state of the Celts, like Caesar in the
transalpinischen landscapes that interrupts so, compared with the culture
level at which half centuries before the Celts in Potal us entgegentraten,
a progress in civilization unmistakably . At that time prevailed in
the armies in their quite excellent Landwehrkanal type (I, 340), now
takes the knighthood the first place. At the time the Celts lived in
open spots, now surrounded their villages wohlgefuegte walls.

The Lombardian Graeberfunde are, particularly in the copper and Glasgeraet,
far back behind those in the northern Celtic country. Perhaps
the most reliable measure of culture is increasing the feeling of
Zusammengehoerigkeit of the nation, as few of them in on the ground
today Lombardy beaten Keltenkaempfen to light occurs, so vivid it appears
in the battles against Caesar. It appears that had the Celtic nation,
as Caesar gegenuebertrat you make the most of their culture has already
reached the decision and was already back in the fall. The civilization
of the Celts in the transalpinischen caesars time offers himself for us,
which we very imperfectly than they are reported, some honorable
and even more interesting side, in more ways than one, turn it off close
to the modern than the Hellenic-Roman, with their boats, their chivalry,
their church constitution, especially with her, albeit imperfect attempts,
the state not the city, but on the trunk and in higher potency in the
nation to build. But Exactly, because we are of the Celtic nation
on the peak of their development deal, is so certain its inferior
talent, or moral, which is the same, their inferior Kulturfaehigkeit
out. You could be from either a national art nor a national state to
produce and brought it to a national maximum theology and its own
Adeltum. The original naive bravery was no longer on the higher
morality and appropriate regulations based military courage, as it
increased in the wake of civilization occurs, had only a very stunted
form is set in the chivalry. Well the real barbarity was overcome, the
times were no more, where in the country the Celtic fette Hueftstueck
the bravest of guests was assigned, but each of the Mitgeladenen, which
is thus considered violated, free standing, so the recipient to call to
battle, and where you with the deceased chieftain burned his loyal acolytes.
But it took human sacrifice still continues, and the legal record
that the torture of the free man's prohibited, but allowed the free
woman was as good as the torture of slaves, sheds light on the
unpleasant position of the female gender when the Celts even in
their culture, taking time.

The merits of the primitive era of the individual nations, were the
Celts taking important, but not those acquired by the then
civilization brings with it, if they are a folk and completely penetrates
inwardly. So was the Celtic nations in their inner states obtain.
There is still remaining, their outer relationships with the neighbors
to represent and describe what role they at this moment taking in the
tremendous rush and competition of the nations in which the claim
is everywhere proves even more difficult than the gain. At the
Pyrenees, the ratio of Voelker longer orderly and peaceful times were
long gone, where the Iberian Celts, which means Basque beleaguered native
population and partly suppressed. The valleys of the Pyrenees Mountains
as the Bearn and Gascony, and also the Kuestensteppen south of the
Garonne, at the time of Caesar in undisputed possession of Aquitaine,
a large number of small, little among themselves and even less with
the outside contacting Voelkerschaften Iberian descent; here was
only the Garonnemuendung themselves with the important port Burdigala
(Bordeaux) in the hands of a Celtic tribe, the Bituriger-Vivisker.
prove far more important were the touch of the Celtic nations with
the Roman people and with the Germans.

It should not be repeated here, which earlier had been told is how the
Romans in slow encroachment of the Celts gradually retracted, the least
Kuestensaum between the Alps and the Pyrenees and occupied them from
Italy, Spain and the Mediterranean Sea were cut off entirely, after
centuries earlier by the installation of the Hellenistic fortress
at the Rhonemuendung this disaster had been prepared, but that here
again we must remember that not only the superiority of the Roman
arms, the beleaguered Celts, but equally those of the Roman culture,
the great beginnings the Hellenic civilization in the country Celts
also ultimately benefited.

Again paved trade and transport as is so often the way of conquest.

The Celt loved Nordic way after fiery drinks; that the noble wine,
such as the Scythians pure and drank until the noise, excited the
astonishment and disgust of moderate southerner, but the merchants
are not reluctant to deal with such customers.

Soon after the trade was the Celts country a gold mine for the Italian
businessman, it was not rare that daselbst a jug of wine to a slave
was exchanged.

Other luxury items, such as italic horses, found in the Celtic land
advantageous paragraph.

It came even before that Roman citizens beyond the Roman frontier
land acquired under the same Italic type used, such as, for example,
Roman Landgueter in the canton of Segusiaver (near Lyon) already
at 673 (81) are mentioned.

Without doubt this is a consequence of that, as I said was, even in
the freedom of Gaul, for example in the Arverni, the Roman language,
even before the conquest was not unknown, although admittedly this
customer probably still a few limited and even with the nobles of
the allied Gaues the Haeduer through interpreters had to be wrong.

As good as the dealer with fire and water squatters launched the occupation
of North America, as instructed and waved it Weinhaendler Roman
landowner and the future conqueror of Gaul approached.

How lively is also on the opposite side it felt the ban shows that the
efficiency of a Celtic tribe of the country, the Gau Nervian the same
individual German Voelkerschaften against trade with the Romans AML.
Impetuous as the Mediterranean, the Romans, pushed from the Baltic and
the North Sea, the Germans down, a fresh from the great master of
the East Voelkerwiege, who made the place beside his older brothers
with youthful strength, albeit with juvenile crudity.

If the next resident on the Rhine Voelkerschaften this tribe, the
Usipeten, Tencterer, Sugambrer, Ubier, is somewhat more civilized
and started at least had stopped voluntarily to change their seats,
so vote but all the messages together so that further inland to the
little arable meant and the individual tribes can hardly be fixed
seats were reached.

It is telling that the western neighbors in this time hardly any of the
peoples of the interior of Germany after his Gaunamen knew to call, but
just the same they are known among the general descriptions of the Sueben,
this is the tail of the people, the nomads, and the Marko men,
this is the Landwehrkanal ^ 10 - name, in Caesar's time Gaunamen
were already difficult, even though they are the Romans, as such,
and later also appeared in many Gaunamen have become.

The huge crowds of this great nation, took the Celts. The struggles of the
Germans for the possession of lands east of Rheine with the Celts
led fans, completely elude our eyes.

We assets only to realize that at the end of the seventh century, Rome
has all the land to the Rhine was the Celts lost to Boier, once in Bavaria
and Bohemia sat have liked, and even homeless herumirrten formerly owned
by the Black Forest when Helvetia not yet naechstwohnenden by the
German tribes took possession, but at least desert border land
dispute was - probably even then, what it later called the Helvetic solitude.
The strategists of the barbaric Germans, through mile-wide Wuestlegung
the neighborhood itself from enemy attacks to secure seems to be
the largest-scale application to have found. ----------------------
------------------------------- ^ 10 Caesars Sueben are probably
the chat, but the same designation came safely to Caesar's time and
much later and every other German tribe, which as a regular means
could be migratory.

So if, as no doubt, the "King of Sueben at Mela (3, 1) and Pliny (nat. 2,
67, 170) Ariovist, it follows therefore, does not that Ariovist
was a Chatte.

The Markowitz men as a particular people can not demonstrate Marbod before,
it is very possible that the word means nothing so far as what it
etymologically means the land or border defense.

If Caesar (Galt. 1, 51) among the armies of the peoples Ariovist
fencing Marko men mentioned, he may also just a name appellative
well have misunderstood, like the Sueben decided the case. --------
------------------------------------------- But the Germans were
not stopped at Rheine.

The essentially from German tribes composed of the army and Kimbrer
Teutones that fifty years earlier on Pannonia, Gaul, Italy and
Spain hingebraust was so huge, nothing seemed to have been a great
reconnaissance.

A sense of the striving and the suffering
deeply possessed him; and this grew the more intense as he gained some
knowledge of the forces at work-forces of pity, of destruction, of
perdition, of salvation. He wandered about on Sunday not only through the
streets, but into this tabernacle and that, as the spirit moved him, and
listened to those who dealt with Christianity as a system of economics as
well as a religion. He could not get his wife to go with him; she
listened to his report of what he heard, and trembled; it all seemed
fantastic and menacing. She lamented the literary peace, the intellectual
refinement of the life they had left behind them; and he owned it was
very pretty, but he said it was not life--it was death-in-life. She liked
to hear him talk in that strain of virtuous self-denunciation, but she
asked him, "Which of your prophets are you going to follow?" and he
answered: "All-all! And a fresh one every Sunday." And so they got their
laugh out of it at last, but with some sadness at heart, and with a dim
consciousness that they had got their laugh out of too many things in
life.

What really occupied and compassed his activities, in spite of his
strenuous reveries of work beyond it, was his editorship. On its social
side it had not fulfilled all the expectations which Fulkerson's radiant
sketch of its duties and relations had caused him to form of it. Most of
the contributions came from a distance; even the articles written in New
York reached him through the post, and so far from having his valuable
time, as they called it, consumed in interviews with his collaborators,
he rarely saw any of them. The boy on the stairs, who was to fence him
from importunate visitors, led a life of luxurious disoccupation, and
whistled almost uninterruptedly. When any one came, March found himself
embarrassed and a little anxious. The visitors were usually young men,
terribly respectful, but cherishing, as he imagined, ideals and opinions
chasmally different from his; and he felt in their presence something
like an anachronism, something like a fraud. He tried to freshen up his
sympathies on them, to get at what they were really thinking and feeling,
and it was some time before he could understand that they were not really
thinking and feeling anything of their own concerning their art, but were
necessarily, in their quality of young, inexperienced men, mere
acceptants of older men's thoughts and feelings, whether they were
tremendously conservative, as some were, or tremendously progressive, as
others were. Certain of them called themselves realists, certain
romanticists; but none of them seemed to know what realism was, or what
romanticism; they apparently supposed the difference a difference of
material. March had imagined himself taking home to lunch or dinner the
aspirants for editorial favor whom he liked, whether he liked their work
or not; but this was not an easy matter. Those who were at all
interesting seemed to have engagements and preoccupations; after two or
three experiments with the bashfuller sort--those who had come up to the
metropolis with manuscripts in their hands, in the good old literary
tradition--he wondered whether he was otherwise like them when he was
young like them. ... Santa Maria San Gil ....» And later (p. 69), about
what happened in _Apuntes Ecija since September 23 the day of 1868_, has
been informed that on October 20 the City Council agreed to demolish,
among other things, "_The Rey_ Bureau of or _The Rollo_, where he
quartered in the old hanged for members on the roads."

And shortly afterwards: "Day twenty-seven, thrown down or _Mesa _The
Rollo_ of Rey_. 'There was, therefore, the famous _rollo of Ecija_
when Mr. Bernaldo de Quirós wrote and published his book. Wishing for
more news, I asked my Friend and former cult ceci de los Reyes
Sotomayor, who, with kindness and alacrity to cordially thank
you, answered a few pages in my interrogation that I would like to publish
in full, but you can not extract, because this note will be too
long. The _Rollo_ stood near the right bank of the Genil, at the exit
of the bridge, towards Cordova. It consisted of a large granite column
blue and black, with five to six yards high, and about three quarters
in diameter. At the top was a rough slab of stone, white, limestone, and
a rod in box, made of plate or tray mode, and on this slab was a lion
sitting on its hind legs, the claws that held against his body, looking
north, the shield of the city of Ecija. The Shield - glosaré I -
referred to by Velez de Guevara, saying: "This is Ecija, the most fertile
population of Andalusia, _que that has sun for weapons at the entrance
of this beautiful bridge!" _ Dwindling culture some ecijanos destroyed
because of _rollo_ - fit as if the fault in things!
She knew that this
was merely the Puritan mask, the cast of a dead civilization, which
people of very amiable and tolerant minds were doomed to wear, and she
sighed to think that less than a year of the heterogeneous gayety of New
York should have made her afraid of it. The sky seemed cold and gray; the
east wind, which she had always thought so delicious in summer, cut her
to the heart. She took her children up to the South End, and in the
pretty square where they used to live they stood before their alienated
home, and looked up at its close-shuttered windows. The tenants must have
been away, but Mrs. March had not the courage to ring and make sure,
though she had always promised herself that she would go all over the
house when she came back, and see how they had used it; she could pretend
a desire for something she wished to take away. She knew she could not
bear it now; and the children did not seem eager. She did not push on to
the seaside; it would be forlorn there without their father; she was glad
to go back to him in the immense, friendly homelessness of New York, and
hold him answerable for the change, in her heart or her mind, which made
its shapeless tumult a refuge and a consolation.

She found that he had been giving the cook a holiday, and dining about
hither and thither with Fulkerson. Once he had dined with him at the
widow's (as they always called Mrs. Leighton), and then had spent the
evening there, and smoked with Fulkerson and Colonel Woodburn on the
gallery overlooking the back yard. They were all spending the summer in
New York. The widow had got so good an offer for her house at St. Barnaby
for the summer that she could not refuse it; and the Woodburns found New
York a watering-place of exemplary coolness after the burning Augusts and
Septembers of Charlottesburg.

"You can stand it well enough in our climate, sir," the colonel
explained, "till you come to the September heat, that sometimes runs well
into October; and then you begin to lose your temper, sir. It's never
quite so hot as it is in New York at times, but it's hot longer, sir." He
alleged, as if something of the sort were necessary, the example of a
famous Southwestern editor who spent all his summers in a New York hotel
as the most luxurious retreat on the continent, consulting the weather
forecasts, and running off on torrid days to the mountains or the sea,
and then hurrying back at the promise of cooler weather. The colonel had
not found it necessary to do this yet; and he had been reluctant to leave
town, where he was working up a branch of the inquiry which had so long
occupied him, in the libraries, and studying the great problem of labor
and poverty as it continually presented itself to him in the streets. He
said that he talked with all sorts of people, whom he found monstrously
civil, if you took them in the right way; and he went everywhere in the
city without fear and apparently without danger. March could not find out
that he had ridden his hobby into the homes of want which he visited, or
had proposed their enslavement to the inmates as a short and simple
solution of the great question of their lives; he appeared to have
contented himself with the collection of facts for the persuasion of the
cultivated classes. It seemed to March a confirmation of this impression
that the colonel should address his deductions from these facts so
unsparingly to him; he listened with a respectful patience, for which
Fulkerson afterward personally thanked him. Fulkerson said it was not
often the colonel found such a good listener; generally nobody listened
but Mrs. Leighton, who thought his ideas were shocking, but honored him
for holding them so conscientiously. Fulkerson was glad that March, as
the literary department, had treated the old gentleman so well, because
there was an open feud between him and the art department. Beaton was
outrageously rude, Fulkerson must say; though as for that, the old
colonel seemed quite able to take care of himself, and gave Beaton an
unqualified contempt in return for his unmannerliness. The worst of it
was, it distressed the old lady so; she admired Beaton as much as she
respected the colonel, and she admired Beaton, Fulkerson thought, rather
more than Miss Leighton did; he asked March if he had noticed them
together. March had noticed them, but without any very definite
impression except that Beaton seemed to give the whole evening to the
girl. Afterward he recollected that he had fancied her rather harassed by
his devotion, and it was this point that he wished to present for his
wife's opinion.

"Girls often put on that air," she said. "It's one of their ways of
teasing. But then, if the man was really very much in love, and she was
only enough in love to be uncertain of herself, she might very well seem
troubled. It would be a very serious question. Girls often don't know
what to do in such a case."

"Yes," said March, "I've often been glad that I was not a girl, on that
account. But I guess that on general principles Beaton is not more in
love than she is. I couldn't imagine that young man being more in love
with anybody, unless it was himself. He might be more in love with
himself than any one else was."

"Well, he doesn't interest me a great deal, and I can't say Miss Leighton
does, either. I think she can take care of herself. She has herself very
well in hand."

"Why so censorious?" pleaded March. "I don't defend her for having
herself in hand; but is it a fault?"

Mrs. March did not say. She asked, "And how does Mr. Fulkerson's affair
get on?"

"His affair? You really think it is one? Well, I've fancied so myself,
and I've had an idea of some time asking him; Fulkerson strikes one as
truly domesticable, conjugable at heart; but I've waited for him to
speak."

"I should think so."

"Yes. He's never opened on the subject yet. Do you know, I think
Fulkerson has his moments of delicacy."

"Moments! He's all delicacy in regard to women."

"Well, perhaps so. There is nothing in them to rouse his advertising
instincts."


IV

The Dryfoos family stayed in town till August. Then the father went West
again to look after his interests; and Mrs. Mandel took the two girls to
one of the great hotels in Saratoga. Fulkerson said that he had never
seen anything like Saratoga for fashion, and Mrs. Mandel remembered that
in her own young ladyhood this was so for at least some weeks of the
year. She had been too far withdrawn from fashion since her marriage to
know whether it was still so or not. In this, as in so many other
matters, the Dryfoos family helplessly relied upon Fulkerson, in spite of
Dryfoos's angry determination that he should not run the family, and in
spite of Christine's doubt of his omniscience; if he did not know
everything, she was aware that he knew more than herself. She thought
that they had a right to have him go with them to Saratoga, or at least
go up and engage their rooms beforehand; but Fulkerson did not offer to
do either, and she did not quite see her way to commanding his services.
The young ladies took what Mela called splendid dresses with them; they
sat in the park of tall, slim trees which the hotel's quadrangle
enclosed, and listened to the music in the morning, or on the long piazza
in the afternoon and looked at the driving in the street, or in the vast
parlors by night, where all the other ladies were, and they felt that
they were of the best there. Solo Sulla had correctly predicted that what
he did not happen the second time: Metellus, certainly not inclined to
turn into a civil war to tangle, had immediately after crossing the Alps,
its soldiers fired. So was nothing left of the oligarchy, as in the
inevitable to add. The Council approved the consulate for the
necessary Dispensationen and triumph, Pompey and Crassus were to be
found without resistance, to consuls for the year 684 (70), while their
armies, supposedly in anticipation of triumph, camped outside the city.
Before the commencement of his duties, then known by Pompey in the
Volkstribun Marcus Lollius Palicanus People's Assembly are held publicly
and formally to the democratic program. The Verfassungsaenderung was
decided in principle. In all seriousness, it was now on the Elimination
of sullanischen institutions. Above all, it was the back office tribunizische
his earlier application.

Pompey himself as consul brought the law, which the Volkstribunen their
traditional powers, including the legislative initiative back - albeit a
strange gift from the hand of the man who more than any living will had
done, the municipality of their old privileges to wrest . As to the
jurors, the position determination Sullas that the list of senators as the
jury list should serve, although abolished, it came alone but by no means
a simple restoration of Gracchischen Knight courts. Henceforth, so certain
the new law Aurele, the jurors Kollegienhaus to a Dritteil from senators
exist, to two men from Dritteilen census of knights, the latter
of which again half the district director or the so-called stem
Kassentribunat have had to be clothed. It was this last innovation in
another, the Democrats made the concession, at least hereafter by the
third part of the criminal jury indirectly emerged from the elections
of districts. If, however, the Senate is not entirely from the courts
was ousted, so is the cause of which probably partly in Crassus' relations
with the Senate to look into some of the accession of the senators on
the appropriations party coalition, which is also probably linked to the
fact that the brother of her recently deceased leader of praetor Lucius
Cotta, this revenue law. No less important was the elimination of for
Asia by Sulla set tax policy, which probably also falls into this year,
the then governor of Asia, Lucius Lucullus, was instructed, by Gaius
Gracchus imported lease system and thereby restoring the high finance
this important money and power source back. Finally, the censorship was
re-launched. The elections for the new consuls shortly after the scheduled
commencement of their duties, fell into manifest mockery of the
Senate, the two consuls of the year 682 (73) Gnaeus Lentulus and
Lucius Clodianus Genius, because of their miserable Kriegfuehrung
against Spartacus by the Senate of command had been removed.

It is understood that these men all the way to it a serious and important
office presented them to bid, set in motion to meet the new leaders
to pay homage to the Senate and angry. At least the eighth part of the
Senate, Senators sixty-four, a hitherto unprecedented number, were
removed from the list, including once by Gaius Caesar Gaius unsuccessfully
indicted Anthony and the consul of the year 683 (71), Publius Lentulus
Sura, probably not few of the creatures hated Sullas. So it was with
the annual 684 (70) again essentially zurueckgekommen on the front of
the existing regulations sullanischen restoration. Recovery was the
metropolitan amount from the treasury, that is fed by the provinces,
again, the violence tribunizische each demagogues the statutory license,
the state regulations to operate, again raised the Geldadel, as holder of
Steuerpachtungen and judicial control over the governor, alongside
the Government's principal only as powerful as ever, again shook the
Senate before the jurors Wahrspruch Knights of the stand and before
the censors Rueger. The system Sullas, based on the political destruction
of the commercial aristocracy and the demagoguery, the exclusive
dominion of the nobility had founded, was completely thrown on the
heap. Apart from individual sub-rules, until their abolition was later
replaced, such as the return of the priests at Selbstergaenzungsrechts
Kollegienhaus remained Sullas of general ordinances hereafter nothing
left than some concessions, which he himself to make the opposition had
found necessary, particularly as recognizing the right of Roman citizens
all Italic, Part party without sharp trend in which, therefore, the
Democrats did not understand was, among other things, such as the
restriction of the freedmen, the regulatory powers of the officials
and the physical changes in criminal law.

Less than unanimous about this was the principal coalition in terms of
personal issues, such Staatsumwaelzung suggested. Not to let the
Democrats do not meet with general recognition of its program, but now
they demanded a restoration in their mind: restoring the memory of their
dead, punish the murderer, Rueckberufung the outlawed from exile, repeal
of the children on their last political Reset, the return of Sulla
confiscated goods, damages from the assets of the heirs, and agents
of the dictator. There were, however, the logical consequences that
are derived from a pure triumph of democracy is revealed, only the
victory of the coalition of 683 (71) but was far away, to be such. Democracy
gave the name and the program, but the converted officers, especially
Pompey, the power and perfection, and now and never had a reaction
to its agreement, which not only the existing relationships to their
foundations shaken but finally against them would have approached
- it was still fresh in memory, which men shed blood Pompey, Crassus
as his fortunes ugeheuren had the reason.

So it is understandable, but also indicative of the weakness of democracy
that the coalition of 683 (71) did not the slightest to the Democrats,
or even revenge rehabilitation assistance. The subsequent collection
of all for only by certain confiscated goods or residues or by Sulla
the purchaser shall purchase money, which the Censor Lentulus in a special
decree noted, can hardly be described as an exception, because even
if not a few Sullaner in their personal interests violated sensitive were,
it was but the measure itself much a confirmation of Sulla's
confiscations. Sullas factory was destroyed, but what now should be, was
so much more in question than decided. The coalition, held together only
by the common purpose of the restoration work to remove dissolved,
as this was achieved, if not formally, but the matter of self-,
for the question but, while initially the emphasis now in power should
fall, seemed to be an equally rapid as violent solution. The armies of
Pompey and Crassus still camped outside the city. That had promised,
after the triumph (at last December 683 71) to adopt his soldiers; alone
it was not investigated it, under pressure from the Spanish army from
the capital to these and the Senate exercised the undisturbed
Staatsumwaelzung to complete what is in the same way also to the army
of Crassus was applicable. This source was now no longer, but still carried
the dissolution of the army. Things took the phrase as if one of the
two with democracy allied commander and the military dictatorship take
oligarchs and democrats in the same fetters beat. This one however,
could only be Pompey. From the outset, had Crassus in the coalition
played a minor role he had, and application must be owed even his election
to the consulate mainly Pompey 'prouder use.

Much of the strengths, Pompey was apparently the Lord of the situation,
and when he access, it seemed he must become, as it was the
instinct of the amount already described: the full commander of the powerful
countries of the civilized world. It begs the whole mass the servile to
the future monarch. Already searched the weaker opponents in a last
means of a new coalition, Crassus, full of old and new jealousy of
the younger, so be it ueberfluegelnden rivals, approached the
senate and tried by an unprecedented amount of donations the
metropolitan itself to capture - as if by Crassus himself mitgebrochene
oligarchy and the eternally ungrateful rabble would have managed,
against the veterans of the Spanish army any protection.

For a moment it seemed as it would on the outskirts of the capital,
between the armies of Pompey and Crassus to battle. With this disaster,
the Democrats turned their insight and their smoothness from. Even
their party was ebenwie the Senate and Crassus, everything that Pompey
is not the dictatorship seized, but with proper insight into their own
weakness and the nature of the powerful opponents tried their guide
the path of goodness. Pompey lacked no condition, in order for the
crown to grasp, as the first of all: the Royal's own courage. We have
outlined earlier the man, with his quest, both loyal Republicans and
Mr. Rome, with its ambiguity and accepts, with his, in the throb of
independent decisions hide docile. It was the first large trial
to which the doom him, he has not passed. The pretext under which Pompey
the dismissal of the army refused, was that he mistrusted Crassus and
therefore not related to the dismissal of the soldiers can make the
start. The Democrats, given the Crassus, herein responsive steps to
be done, the fellow eyes of all hands to the peace offer, secretly and
publicly assailed it, that he zwiefachen to the merit of the enemy
defeated and the parties have to be reconciled, nor the third and biggest
fans add to the Fatherland the inner peace and the horror picture
of the impending civil war to banish.

As always only a vain, ungewandten, insecure man can act, all Schmeichelkuenste
of diplomacy, all patriotic enthusiasm theatrical apparatus was set in
motion to the desired goal, but the main thing was that things
had by Crassus' timely permissiveness is designed so that Pompey only
choice was either just as a tyrant of Rome, or to resign. So finally
he gave in and agreed to the dismissal of the troops. The command in
Mithradatischen war to obtain it without a doubt hoped for when he is
684 (70) to the consul had to choose, he could not now wish, since the
campaign of 683 (71) Lucullus this war, in fact, terminate seemed to have,
by the Senate in accordance with the Act Sempron dependent
Konsularprovinz to him, he held his own dignity, and Crassus was followed
his example. So moved Pompey, as he dismissed his soldiers on the last
days of the year 684 (70) laid down its consulate, first by the very public
business and stated that henceforth as a simple citizen in a quiet Must
want to live. He had asked so that he had the crown and had, since he
did not want him no matter remained as the invalidity of a throne
resignedly candidates. The resignation of the man, after the location
of the first things zukam from political scene, first about the same
party again came, as we have in the gracchischen and Marian era found.
Sulla asked the Senate attached to the regiment only, not given, because
it remained the same even after the bulwarks erected by Sulla again fallen,
nevertheless, initially to the Senate, while the Constitution indeed,
with which he ruled, in essence the restored Gracchische, pervaded was
one of the oligarchy hostile spirit. Democracy was to restore the Constitution
Gracchischen effect, but without a new Gracchus was a body without
a head, and that neither Pompey nor Crassus on the duration of
this primary could be, was in itself a clear and through the last
processes in clearly been demonstrated.

Indeed, the democratic opposition in the absence of an officer, even the
rudder in the hand would be temporarily satisfied with the government
at every step to impede and annoy.

Between oligarchy and democracy, but rose to new capitalists Watch the
party which in the recent crisis with the latter had made common
cause, but to himself and to her hinueberzuziehen a counterweight
against democracy to win the oligarchs were now eager .

So courted by both sides, lined the money men do not, their advantageous
position to exploit it and the only one of its former privileges, yet
they were not recoverable, the Knights stand reserved fourteen
banks in the theater, now (687 67) by People's Final Play to leave.

On the whole they are approached without democracy brusquely to
break, but again more of the government.

Even the relationship of the Senate to Crassus and his clientele
belong in this context, but mainly seems to be a better relationship
between the Senate and the aristocracy of money thus obtained to
be that this stalwart of the officers at the senator, Lucius Lucullus,
Andringen on the same hard hurt capitalists in the year 686 (68)
for the management of this important province of Asia fell.

While the metropolitan factions together in the usual care Haders where
never taken as an actual decision could come out, went to the east of
the events its disastrous course, as we have described it earlier, and
it was the faltering course of the metropolitan policy for the
crisis is pressing.

The country-like Seekrieg had taken the worst turn. In the beginning of
the year 687 (67) was the army of the Pontic aufgerieben Roemer, the
Armenian in full resolution on the withdrawal, all the lost conquests,
the sea only in the hands of pirates, the grain prices in Italy
is so driven in the amount that a formal famine feared.

Probably had, as we saw the mistakes of the military, including the totally
incapable of admiral Marcus Antonius and the rashness of the otherwise
stalwart Lucius Lucullus, these emergency debt in part, probably the
democracy by their Wuehlereien to the resolution of the Armenian
army contributed significantly . But of course the government was now
for everything they and what others did spoiled, lock, stock and barrel,
and blamed the resentment of hungry quantity demanded only an opportunity
to work with the Senate bill. It was a decisive crisis. The oligarchy, as
well as by-and disarmed, was not yet fallen, but was the management of
public affairs in the hands of the Senate, but it crashed when the enemy,
that is, including the overhead of military affairs, himself zueigneten;
and Now, this was possible. Now, if proposals for a different and
better management of land and Seekrieges to Komitien were brought,
it was in the mood of the residents of the Senate is not expected
to be able to prevent its enforcement, and intervention by the
residents in these highest administrative issue was indeed the
ousting of the Senate and the transfer of leadership of the State
to the leader of the opposition.

Again, the concatenation of things the decision in the hands of Pompey.
For more than two years, lived the celebrated captain as a private
man in the capital.

His voice was like the town hall on the market rarely heard, where he was
not welcome and without a decisive impact, he stopped here in front of
the roaring buzz of the parties. When he showed, it happened with the
full court and make his small clients, and also his retirement ceremony
impressed the crowd. If he is, where the full splendor of his immensely
successful yet adhered unabated, is now offered, to the East to go,
so he was without a doubt, with all of his required military and
political sovereignty of the residents willingly dressed.

For the oligarchy, the military dictatorship in the political ruin her
safe, even at Pompey since the coalition of 683 (71) saw their hated
enemy, this was a devastating blow, but also the democratic party
could not probably be mute.

How desirable it is to be had, the regiment of the Senate to end, so it
was when it happened in this way, much less a victory of their party
as a personal ally of her overpowering. In this light was the Democratic
Party a far difficult to beat up as the Senate was.

The few years earlier by the dismissal of the Spanish army and Pompey
'rescission happy avoided danger of increasing the use of reversed
again when Pompey now at the forefront of the armies of the East
came.

This time, however, took Pompey to or at least let it happen for him that
other accessed. It was in the year 687 (67) introduced two Gesetzvorschlaege,
one of which except the length of democracy required the dismissal
of the exhausted soldiers of the Asian, the dismissal of the army
Oberfeld same Lord, Lucius Lucullus, and its replacement by one
of the consuls of the current year, Gaius Piso or Manius Glabrio,
had the second seven years earlier to clean the seas from pirates
by the Senate's own recovery plan and expanded.

A single, by the Senate from the significant to Konsularer captain should
be appointed to the sea throughout the Mediterranean Sea by the columns
of Hercules to the Pontic and Syrian coast exclusively, by land on all
German coasts to ten miles inland with the relevant Roman governors
compete, the supreme command to take over. Three years was the same,
the Office secured. It encompassed a general staff, such as Rome had not
yet seen, of twenty-five Unterbefehlshabern state senators, all with
praetor praetor violence insignia and clothed, and two sub-masters
with treasure Quaestors powers, they are all refined by the exclusive
will of the Lord hoechstkommandierenden field.

It was the same permitted up to 120,000 people man foot, 5000 cavalry, 500
warships and up to the end on the resources of the provinces and client
states to have no limits; Moreover, the existing warships and a
substantial number of troops assigned to him immediately.

The funds of the State in the capital as in the provinces and the communities
should bid him indefinitely, and despite the embarrassment of funds
immediately from the treasury to him a sum of 11 million crowns
(144 million Sestertius) are paid.

It illuminates , that by this Gesetzentwuerfe, including through the
expedition against the pirates in question, the regiment of the
Senate fell on the pile.

Well, the residents of the highest officials appointed ordinary course
of the right of the military community and also had the extraordinary
officers, to military commanders to be able, at least according to strict
law of the confirmation by the residents, but to the occupation of
the individual commands of the community was no influence on constitutional
and only at the request of either the Senate or at the request of
one but itself to Feldherrnamt officials had previously authorized
the Komitien occasionally interfered in here and also awarded the
special competence.

This was much longer, since there is a Roman Free State gave the
Senate the really crucial word on this and it was his power over
time to reach definitive recognition arrives.

Admittedly, the democracy has been shaken in this alone, even in the most
worrying of the previously WHICH cases, the transfer of the African
command to Gaius Marius 647 (107), was only a constitutional
Feldherrnamt over to officials at all justified by the close of the
residents with a certain expedition had been instructed.

But now, the residents any private man not merely with the extraordinary
violence equip highest office, but also with a determined by their
standardized competency. That the Senate this man of the series to
the CONSULAR erkiesen had was a mitigation only in the form, because the
selection was solely about the same, because it just was not a choice and
the quantity stormily excited against the Senate over the supreme
command of the seas and coasts are worse than others, but none could
carry as the only Pompey. But even more alarming than these fundamental
negation of the Senate rule was the actual abolition of that through
the establishment of an office of almost unlimited military and
financial expertise.

Dryfoos necessarily depended upon him for advice concerning the scope and
nature of the dinner, but he received the advice suspiciously, and
contested points of obvious propriety with pertinacious stupidity.
Fulkerson said that when it came to the point he would rather have had
the thing, as he called it, at Delmonico's or some other restaurant; but
when he found that Dryfoos's pride was bound up in having it at his own
house, he gave way to him. Then he would have been forced, and often go
out of the situation on the water between the bay and Ragusa or even go
beyond themselves to convince. Brunazzi The Abbate was a trusted messenger
of _Erzherzogs Francis Este_, on the island of Lissa stayed. Abbate
This came on the English ships, together with Hoste still on
12 October Cattaro. He brought a letter from the Archduke to the Vladika
with. [87] In this letter congratulated by the Este Vladika because
of his victories over the French. He gave the Vladika to understand that
the British commanders would have led to the vessels after Cattaro to
help him to go. And then he continued: "If the successful work
undertaken, they are still more troops be sent to the club with your
army to liberate the Bocca help. With this small support I send the
well-known Mr. Abbate Brunazzi to them, who is here with me and
what I wrote this letter would be handed over. His skill and his
industriousness, I highly appreciate. He was always the general welfare
of the local areas and has tried through his zeal and character
gained my trust.

This man, I recommend you all he has from me the job, you can verbally
express my appreciation. "This" well known "and" zealous "Abbate wanted
to but the thing with more zeal than was necessary to accept. His
Wühlereien which Austria mood among the population should do, and
his arrogant attitude towards the English, the captain had naturally
Hoste hurt. We will soon see how this Abbate, in fact, the common cause
more than it has. The intent inform host, wrote the Vladika him immediately
and asked him strongly, not from the bay to go away before Cattaro
would be used. "With your leave," wrote the Vladika, "You are the hope of
destroying allied Courts. Because Cattaro einzunehmen, is the real purpose
of all our efforts. And right now, where the best opportunity arises, you
want to leave. "[88] Hoste replied:" Because Cattaro besieged from all
sides is, I find my second linger here unnecessary. But nevertheless I
will not be far removed from here, I go to Ragusa, to the enemy to guard,
and would often come to me with you to meet. "[89] Hoste over the
Montenegrins the powder and other munitions, which to St. George was,
and left after a few days the bay. Cattaro remained under siege and
surveillance of Montenegrins. They did not know how to get the guns on
the mountain peaks herniederhängenden lift up and there should be.
And without guns, they could hardly hope to the city einzunehmen. The
Vladika was determined to Cattaro so long to keep occupied until the
English Eskader returned or until the enemy is forced by starvation would.
There was but now a fact that the conquest of the city would have to
make, but by the arrogance and Hintertreibungen of the Abbate Brunazzi
could not be exploited. In the French army, which in Cattaro found were
several hundred Croats. The Croats did not want to be in the
besieged city swelter _im service of their national Feindes_, but decided
to escape. In the night between 28 and 29 Oct succeeded them
from out of town. They fled after _Prtchanj_ where Abbate stayed, and
brought him the keys of the city gates and three French flags. The Vladika
this night was a half hour away from Cattaro --- Therefore --- like
the Abbate _Dobrota_ in the village. Had he received the keys, so he
would have the city at night, nor storm can. The Abbate he could
of course also Prtschanj from this key to send.

This he did, but not from envy against an orthodox bishop. The Croats
were Roman Catholic religion and were now to him, the Roman Catholic
priest who fled. His pride was at this moment of a hidebound party man.
Only on 29 In October he sent around noon the Vladika which now no
longer usable key. The Vladika was because of such behavior on the
part of the Abbate highly incensed. He tried yet on the same day the
city to surrender commanders Gauthier to move. This was the departure of
Croats now quite weakened. Gauthier refused. He thanked the Vladika, but
rejected his proposal. Hostenbach according to his promise came after
several of the bay, besah the besieged city and went away again.
"Yes, I know," Fulkerson admitted. "But it isn't a usual case. Mr.
Dryfoos don't go in much for the conventionalities; I reckon he don't
know much about 'em, come to boil it down; and he hoped"--here Fulkerson
felt the necessity of inventing a little--"that you would excuse any want
of ceremony; it's to be such an informal affair, anyway; we're all going
in business dress, and there ain't going to be any ladies. He'd have come
himself to ask you, but he's a kind of a bashful old fellow. It's all
right, Colonel Woodburn."

"I take it that it is, sir," said the colonel, courteously, but with
unabated state, "coming from you. But in these matters we have no right
to burden our friends with our decisions."

"Of course, of course," said Fulkerson, feeling that he had been
delicately told to mind his own business.

"I understand," the colonel went on, "the relation that Mr. Dryfoos bears
to the periodical in which you have done me the honor to print my papah,
but this is a question of passing the bounds of a purely business
connection, and of eating the salt of a man whom you do not definitely
know to be a gentleman."

"Mah goodness!" his daughter broke in. "If you bah your own salt with his
money--"

"It is supposed that I earn his money before I buy my salt with it,"
returned her father, severely. "And in these times, when money is got in
heaps, through the natural decay of our nefarious commercialism, it
behooves a gentleman to be scrupulous that the hospitality offered him is
not the profusion of a thief with his booty. I don't say that Mr.
Dryfoos's good-fortune is not honest. I simply say that I know nothing
about it, and that I should prefer to know something before I sat down at
his board."

Do you love him? (Dame.) I would die if he zustieße something - you have
to spare! (The Lieutenant düster shakes his head.) Yes, yes, you must
- you will ... He must not die! Listen to me when I tell you where he is
to be found - if I support him as a prisoner in your hands to enable him
to General Bonaparte on this - do you want me then as an officer and a
gentleman in your Honorary swear not to fight with him or him in any way
to treat bad? (Leutnant.) But set in the event that he is attacking
me ...

He has my gun! (Dame.) In this he is far too cowardly.

(Leutnant.) I am not so convinced - is the ability to do anything.
(Dame.)

Fulkerson. Ah jost know it's all
you' doing, and it will give papa a chance to toak to some new people,
and get away from us evahlastin' women for once."

"I don't see why any one should want to do that," said Fulkerson, with
grateful gallantry. "But I'll be dogged," he said to March when he told
him about this odd experience, "if I ever expected to find Colonel
Woodburn on old Lindau's ground. He did come round handsomely this
morning at breakfast and apologized for taking time to think the
invitation over before he accepted. His chivalrous nature made him the
Spanish response to the way light and raised in the Spanish
nobility to the election related wonderful stranger the glowing
enthusiasm; after here as with the Celts and the Germans existing
bellicose followers swore custom of thousands of the noblest Spaniards
to their Roman commander loyal to the death to stand, and took place in
Sertorius you reliable Waffengefaehrten than his fellow countrymen
and party comrades.

He spurned it, even the superstitions of roheren Spanish Voelkerschaften
for themselves to use and its warlike plans as commands by Diana the
white hind of the goddess is of them to leave.

Absolutely, he led a fair and mildly Regiment. His troops had, at least
as far as his eye and his arm were the toughest man keep breeding,
so he is generally mild in punishment was so adamant was he in
each of his men to friendly territory sacrilege perpetrated.

But also to facilitate the permanent location of the Provincial,
he was considered, he sat down and the tribute, the soldiers
themselves for the winter barracks to be built, thus pushing the
burden of accommodation and thus no longer a source of unspeakable
suffering and Uebelstaende became clogged.

For the children of the Spaniards was out in Osca (Huesca) built
an academy in which they are usually higher in Rome youth received
instruction, Roman and Greek speaking and learned to wear toga - a
strange measure, which can not only had the purpose of the allies
in Spain now inevitable hostage in as friendly to take shape, but
above all an outflow and an increase was the big idea of Gaius
Gracchus and the democratic party, the provinces gradually romanisieren.

Here was the first beginning as to the romanization not eradicate
the old inhabitants and replacing the same by Italian emigrants to
accomplish, but the Provincial romanisieren themselves.

The Optimat mocked in Rome about the wretched emigrants, the outliers from
the Italian army, the last of the Raeuberbande of carboplatin and the
poor scorn fell on it himself. We calculated the masses, against Sertorius
in the field had been run, with inclusion of the Spanish Country Storm at
120000 men on foot, 2000 archers and slingers and 6000 riders. Against
this enormous transfer of power had Sertorius not just in a lucky chain
of battles and victories claimed, but also the greatest part of Spain
in his power brought. In the province beyond Metellus was limited to his
immediate troops occupied parts here, all Voelkerschaften who could party
for Sertorius taken. In this side there were the victories of the Roman
army Hirtuleius no more. Sertorianische emissaries durchstreiften
the whole Gallic territory; already started here at the tribe,
to stimulate and zusammengerottete clusters, which make Alpenpaesse
uncertain.

The lake finally belonged equally to Insurgente as the legitimate government,
since the allies, those pirates in the Spanish waters were almost as
powerful as the Roman warships. On the promontory of Diana (now Denia
between Valencia and Alicante) those directed Sertorius a fixed station,
where they sometimes waylay the Roman ships, the Roman army and the
Seestaedten their needs to them, sometimes the Insurgente the goods
supplied or decreased, partly their dealings with Italy and Asia Minor
mediated. That these agents always finished by the Brandstätter lohenden
everywhere wore out the sparks, it was highly disturbing, especially
at a time when everywhere in the Roman Empire so much fuel was aufgehaeuft.
------------- --------------------------------------- ^ 3 At least
the broad outlines of this organization have in the years 674 (80),
675 (79), 676 (78) fall, although the execution without any doubt to
the good part until the later years belongs. --------------------
-------------------------------- In these circumstances it was Sullas
sudden death (676 78). As long as the man lived on his voice a trained
and reliable Veteranenheer any moment to rise was prepared like the
nearly the oligarchy, as it seemed, decisive loss of the Spanish provinces
to the emigrants and the election of the leader of the opposition at home
to the highest officials of the empire than any temporary misfortunes
endured and, indeed, in its myopic nature, but not with quite wrongly,
that rely on that either the opposition will not dare to open the
struggle to move, or that if they dare, the two Savior of the oligarchy
same for the third time will produce. Now was the state of affairs has
become another. The democratic HOT spur in the capital, a long impatient
about the endless hesitation and angefeuert by shiny embassies from
Spain, urged to hit, and Lepidus, in which the decision was instantly,
and went with all the zeal of the renegades and with his own person
recklessly on the matter. For a moment it seemed as if the torch to
the pyre of regents lights, even the war itself inflame citizens, however,
Pompey 'influence and the mood of certain veterans Sullanischen the
opposition, the regents of the Leichenbegaengnis still quiet temporarily
leave. With only so open then we met for the initiation of revolution
again. Resonated Already the market of the capital of accusations
against the "caricature Romulus" and his henchmen. Even before the
enormous eyes closed, was of Lepidus and his followers Sullanischen overthrow
the Constitution, the restoration of the grain distribution, the
restoration of the Volkstribune in integrum, the illegal Zurueckfuehrung
the exiles, the return of the confiscated lands open than the target
means of agitation.

Now, with adequate follow the outlaw compounds; Marcus Perpenna in
cinnanischen time governor of Sicily, was found in the capital. The
sons of Sullanischen Hochverraeter on which the restoration of law
with unbearable pressure, and about all the famous Marian minded
men were invited to join, not a few, as the young Lucius Cinna, joined
to other admittedly followed the examples of Gaius Caesar, although on
the news of death Sullas and Lepidus' plans had returned from Asia, but
after having the character of the leader and the movement had met
accurately, gently withdrew. In the capital was to Lepidus' statement in
the Weinhaeusern and brothels gezecht and advertised. Among the Etruscan
Missvergnuegten finally was a conspiracy against the new order of
things angezettelt ^ 4 -------------------------------- ^ 4
-------------------------- The following story is based largely on
the report of the Licinianus who, as he also truemmerhaft just here,
but about the Insurrektion of Lepidus important information there.
----------------------------------------- ---------------- All this
happened under the eyes of the government.

The consul Catulus, and the communication Optimat penetrated it, and
immediately decided to intervene in the uprising germs to choke; tired
the majority alone could not decide, the struggle to start, but tried
as long as possible, through a system of transactions and concessions are
to deceive themselves. Lepidus was initially on the same itself a. The
notion that returning the Volkstribunen withdrawn powers to apply, he is
no less like his colleague Catulus. However, the grain distribution in
Gracchische limited extent restored. It then does not seem like after all
Sempron Act, but only a certain number - probably 40000 - the poorest
citizens earlier donations, as it determines Gracchus had five bushels
per month for the price of 6 1 / 3 aces (2_ groschen) to receive
- a provision from the Aerar an annual net loss of at least 300,000
crowns came 5th ^ The opposition, by this half-indulgence, of course,
neither satisfies as decided encouraged, joined in the capital just so
abrupt and violent to, and in Etruria, the source of all right-Italic
Proletarierinsurrektionen broke already citizens of war: the
expropriierten Faesulaner sat down with gewaffneter hand back into
the possession of their lost goods and more of Sulla daselbst-based
veterans came in to the casserole.

The Senate decided on this message, the two consuls to send it to aufzubieten
troops and the insurgency have become the oppressors ^ 6 It was not
possible to proceed kopfloser.

The Senate noted the Insurrektion against his Schwachmuetigkeit and its
concerns through the restoration of the cereal law: he had to rest before
Strassenlaerm to have the notorious head of an army Insurrektion, and
when the two consuls by the most solemn oath, one to devise document
to have been committed to them weapons can not be trusted to return,
so it truly demonic stubbornness oligarchic belief about a such a
bulwark against the threat of Insurrektion going to like it.

Of course equipped Lepidus in Etruria not for the Senate, but for the
Insurrektion, mocking statement that the oath made only for the
current year tie him.

The Senate, the oracle machine in motion, in order to return him to
determine, and entrusted him the direction of the forthcoming
elections Consul alone Lepidus important, and so while the messengers
came and went and Vergleichsvorschlaegen about the year of office
expired at the end, his team surged to to an army.

When finally in the beginning of the following year (677 77) to Lepidus
the specific command of the Senate was now ungesaeumt return of
Proconsul defiantly refused to obey, and called for its renewal
of the former tribunizischen violence and the restoration of the
most violent in their displaced citizens and their right property,
moreover for the re-election as consul for the current year, which
means the statutory form of tyranny.

This was the war declared. The Senate could party, except to the Sullanischen
veterans whose civil existence was threatened by Lepidus, are
counting on that of the proconsul Catulus among the weapons the
army called, and to the urgent warnings of insights, including the
Philip, was therefore the defense of the capital and the defense
of Etruria in the main power of the Democrat Party Catulus transferred
from the Senate, even while Gnaeus Pompey with another pile sent
to his former protégé the Potal to wrest the sub commander Marcus
Brutus kept busy.

While Pompey quickly completed its mission and the enemy commander
closely included in Mutina, Lepidus appeared before the capital,
in order, like Marius, stuermender hand with them for the revolution
to conquer.

The right Tiber banks fell completely in his power and he could
even crossing the river, on the Mars field, hard by the walls of
the city, was the decisive battle beaten.

Solo won Catulus; Lepidus had zurueckweichen according to Etruria, while
another department under Lepidus' son Scipio in the fortress of Alba
threw. This was essentially the uprising to an end. Mutina resulted in
Pompey, Brutus, in spite of it allowed safe passage to NACHTRÄGLICH
Pompey's command killed.

Alba was also after a long siege, defeated by hunger and the guide is also
executed. Lepidus, Pompey and by Catulus two sides urged etrurischen
delivered on shore at a meeting, just the withdrawal is to be made,
and then embarked in the port of Cosa to Sardinia in, from where he
cut off the supply of capital and the connection with the Spanish Insurgente
hoped to win.

With the governor of the island made him strong resistance, and he himself
died not long after its landing at the Tuberculosis (677 77), in
Sardinia, which the war was over.

A part of his soldiers went in, with the core of Insurrektionsarmee
and wohlgefuellten cash went to the former praetor Marcus Perpenna
after Liguria and from there to Spain to Sertorianern. ----------------
------------------------------- ^ 5 In the year 676 (78) reported
Licinianus (p. 23 Pertz, p. 42 Bonn): (Lepidus) [Ie] frumentari gem
[at] Nullo resistente l [argi] tus est ut Annone [ae] quinque modi
popular [lo da] rentur.

After that, ie the Law of the consuls of the year 681 (73) Marcus Terentius
Lucullus and Gaius Cassius Varus, which Cicero (Verr. 3, 70, 136, 5,
21, 52) and mentioned also Sallust (hist 3, 61 , 19 Dietsch) refers to
five bushels not only restored, but only by regulation of the grain
sizilischen Getreideankaeufe secured donations and maybe some
things changed in detail.

Sempron law that everyone in Rome debits allowed citizens to participate
in the cereal donation, has been determined.

The subsequent distribution of grain has not had this amount, because the
monthly grain of the Roman residents little more than 33000 Medimnen =
198000 Roem. Bushel was (Cic. verr. 3, 30, 72), it was only received
approximately 40000 Buergermeister cereals, while the number of direct
debits in the capital, residents certainly far was considerable.

This body probably stems from the laws octaves, which is in contrast to
the exaggerated Sempron a "moderate, tolerable for the state and for the
common people needed donation" (Cic. off 2, 21, 72; brood. 62, 222)
introduced, and seems to be precisely the law of lex Licinianus mentioned
frumentaria. That Lepidus to such a proposal einliess compensation,
agrees to conduct themselves in the subject of restitution Tribunate.
Likewise, it adjusts to the circumstances that democracy brought about
by this regulation of the grain distribution is by no means was
satisfied (Sallust cited above).

The dinner went on from course to
course with barbaric profusion, and from time to time Fulkerson tried to
bring the talk back to 'Every Other Week.' But perhaps because that was
only the ostensible and not the real object of the dinner, which was to
bring a number of men together under Dryfoos's roof, and make them the
witnesses of his splendor, make them feel the power of his wealth,
Fulkerson's attempts failed. The colonel showed how commercialism was the
poison at the heart of our national life; how we began as a simple,
agricultural people, who had fled to these shores with the instinct,
divinely implanted, of building a state such as the sun never shone upon
before; how we had conquered the wilderness and the savage; how we had
flung off, in our struggle with the mother-country, the trammels of
tradition and precedent, and had settled down, a free nation, to the
practice of the arts of peace; how the spirit of commercialism had stolen
insidiously upon us, and the infernal impulse of competition had
embroiled us in a perpetual warfare of interests, developing the worst
passions of our nature, and teaching us to trick and betray and destroy
one another in the strife for money, till now that impulse had exhausted
itself, and we found competition gone and the whole economic problem in
the hands of monopolies--the Standard Oil Company, the Sugar Trust, the
Rubber Trust, and what not. And now what was the next thing? Affairs
could not remain as they were; it was impossible; and what was the next
thing?

The company listened for the main part silently. Dryfoos tried to grasp
the idea of commercialism as the colonel seemed to hold it; he conceived
of it as something like the dry-goods business on a vast scale, and he
knew he had never been in that. He did not like to hear competition
called infernal; he had always supposed it was something sacred; but he
approved of what Colonel Woodburn said of the Standard Oil Company; it
was all true; the Standard Oil has squeezed Dryfoos once, and made him
sell it a lot of oil-wells by putting down the price of oil so low in
that region that he lost money on every barrel he pumped.

All the rest listened silently, except Lindau; at every point the colonel
made against the present condition of things he said more and more
fiercely, "You are righdt, you are righdt." His eyes glowed, his hand
played with his knife-hilt. When the colonel demanded, "And what is the
next thing?" he threw himself forward, and repeated: "Yes, sir! What is
the next thing?"

"Natural gas, by thunder!" shouted Fulkerson.

One of the waiters had profited by Lindau's posture to lean over him and
put down in the middle of the table a structure in white sugar. It
expressed Frescobaldi's conception of a derrick, and a touch of nature
had been added in the flame of brandy, which burned luridly up from a
small pit in the centre of the base, and represented the gas in
combustion as it issued from the ground. Fulkerson burst into a roar of
laughter with the words that recognized Frescobaldi's personal tribute to
Dryfoos. Everybody rose and peered over at the thing, while he explained
the work of sinking a gas-well, as he had already explained it to
Frescobaldi. In the midst of his lecture he caught sight of the caterer
himself, where he stood in the pantry doorway, smiling with an artist's
anxiety for the effect of his masterpiece.

"Come in, come in, Frescobaldi! We want to congratulate you," Fulkerson
called to him. "Here, gentlemen! Here's Frescobaldi's health."

They all drank; and Frescobaldi, smiling brilliantly and rubbing his
hands as he bowed right and left, permitted himself to say to Dryfoos:
"You are please; no? You like?"

"First-rate, first-rate!" said the old man; but when the Italian had
bowed himself out and his guests had sunk into their seats again, he said
dryly to Fulkerson, "I reckon they didn't have to torpedo that well, or
the derrick wouldn't look quite so nice and clean."

"Yes," Fulkerson answered, "and that ain't quite the style--that little
wiggly-waggly blue flame--that the gas acts when you touch off a good
vein of it. This might do for weak gas"; and he went on to explain:

"They call it weak gas when they tap it two or three hundred feet down;
and anybody can sink a well in his back yard and get enough gas to light
and heat his house. I remember one fellow that had it blazing up from a
pipe through a flower-bed, just like a jet of water from a fountain. My,
my, my! You fel--you gentlemen--ought to go out and see that country, all
of you. Wish we could torpedo this well, Mr. Dryfoos, and let 'em see how
it works! Mind that one you torpedoed for me? You know, when they sink a
well," he went on to the company, "they can't always most generally
sometimes tell whether they're goin' to get gas or oil or salt water.
Why, when they first began to bore for salt water out on the Kanawha,
back about the beginning of the century, they used to get gas now and
then, and then they considered it a failure; they called a gas-well a
blower, and give it up in disgust; the time wasn't ripe for gas yet. Now
they bore away sometimes till they get half-way to China, and don't seem
to strike anything worth speaking of. Then they put a dynamite torpedo
down in the well and explode it. They have a little bar of iron that they
call a Go-devil, and they just drop it down on the business end of the
torpedo, and then stand from under, if you please! You hear a noise, and
in about half a minute you begin to see one, and it begins to rain oil
and mud and salt water and rocks and pitchforks and adoptive citizens;
and when it clears up the derrick's painted--got a coat on that 'll wear
in any climate. That's what our honored host meant. Generally get some
visiting lady, when there's one round, to drop the Go-devil. But that day
we had to put up with Conrad here. They offered to let me drop it, but I
declined. I told 'em I hadn't much practice with Go-devils in the
newspaper syndicate business, and I wasn't very well myself, anyway.
Astonishing," Fulkerson continued, with the air of relieving his
explanation by an anecdote, "how reckless they get using dynamite when
they're torpedoing wells. We stopped at one place where a fellow was
handling the cartridges pretty freely, and Mr. Dryfoos happened to
caution him a little, and that ass came up with one of 'em in his hand,
and began to pound it on the buggy-wheel to show us how safe it was. I
turned green, I was so scared; but Mr. Dryfoos kept his color, and kind
of coaxed the fellow till he quit. You could see he was the fool kind,
that if you tried to stop him he'd keep on hammering that cartridge, just
to show that it wouldn't explode, till he blew you into Kingdom Come.
When we got him to go away, Mr. Dryfoos drove up to his foreman. 'Pay
Sheney off, and discharge him on the spot,' says he. 'He's too safe a man
to have round; he knows too much about dynamite.' I never saw anybody so
cool."

Dryfoos modestly dropped his head under Fulkerson's flattery and, without
lifting it, turned his eyes toward Colonel Woodburn. "I had all sorts of
men to deal with in developing my property out there, but I had very
little trouble with them, generally speaking."

"Ah, ah! you foundt the laboring-man reasonable--dractable--tocile?"
Lindau put in.

"Yes, generally speaking," Dryfoos answered. "They mostly knew which side
of their bread was buttered. I did have one little difficulty at one
time. It happened to be when Mr. Fulkerson was out there. Some of the men
tried to form a union--"

"No, no!" cried Fulkerson. "Let me tell that! I know you wouldn't do
yourself justice, Mr. Dryfoos, and I want 'em to know how a strike can be
managed, if you take it in time. You see, some of those fellows got a
notion that there ought to be a union among the working-men to keep up
wages, and dictate to the employers, and Mr. Dryfoos's foreman was the
ringleader in the business. They understood pretty well that as soon as
he found it out that foreman would walk the plank, and so they watched
out till they thought they had Mr. Dryfoos just where they wanted
him--everything on the keen jump, and every man worth his weight in
diamonds--and then they came to him, and--told him to sign a promise to
keep that foreman to the end of the season, or till he was through with
the work on the Dryfoos and Hendry Addition, under penalty of having them
all knock off. Mr. Dryfoos smelled a mouse, but he couldn't tell where
the mouse was; he saw that they did have him, and he signed, of course.
There wasn't anything really against the fellow, anyway; he was a
first-rate man, and he did his duty every time; only he'd got some of
those ideas into his head, and they turned it. Mr. Dryfoos signed, and
then he laid low."

March saw Lindau listening with a mounting intensity, and heard him
murmur in German, "Shameful! shameful!"

Fulkerson went on: "Well, it wasn't long before they began to show their
hand, but Mr. Dryfoos kept dark. He agreed to everything; there never was
such an obliging capitalist before; there wasn't a thing they asked of
him that he didn't do, with the greatest of pleasure, and all went merry
as a marriage-bell till one morning a whole gang of fresh men marched
into the Dryfoos and Hendry Addition, under the escort of a dozen
Pinkertons with repeating rifles at half-cock, and about fifty fellows
found themselves out of a job. You never saw such a mad set."

The handsome enemy fleet exclusively dominated the Adriatic Sea and
including all continental Inselhaefen and the East Coast. Under such
circumstances, the pressing question is, why not instead of the
Caesar sea to land by the Illyria of action, which all of the fleet
threats it ueberhob and also for his coming mostly from Gaul troops
was shorter than about Brundisium.

Although the Illyrian countryside indescribably rough and poor, but
they are from other armies, but not long afterwards passed, and
this obstacle is the conqueror of Gaul unuebersteiglich hardly
appeared.

Perhaps he worried that during the difficult march Illyrian Pompey his
entire army across the Adriatic want, so the roles are reversed
at once, in Macedonia Caesar, Pompey in Italy, came to stand, even
though such a rapid change of opponent but the more burdensome
zuzutrauen was little.

Perhaps Caesar was also in the condition that its fleet is now on an
observation area in question would be brought to the sea for a decision,
and as he was after his return from Spain of the true state of
things in the Adriatic seas inne promised, it might be too late the
campaign plan to change.

Perhaps, even after Caesar fast, always on the decision urgent nature may
probably say, he found the moment yet unfilled, but surely in a
few days with the enemy is covering epirotische coast is irresistibly
attracted, the whole plan of his opponent once again by a daring
train to cross.

Anyway, on 4 January 706 ^ 5 (48) with six Caesar went through the rigors
and disease very gelichteten legions and 600 riders from Brundisium after
epirotischen coast under sail. It was a Seitenstueck to the foolhardiness
British expedition, however, at least the first litter was happy. Amid
the akrokeraunischen (Chimara-) cliffs, on the rarely frequented
roadstead of Paleassa (Paljassa) was reached the coast.

We saw both the transport ships from the port of Orikon (Avlona Bay), where
a squadron of eighteen Pompeianisches ships lay, as well as the headquarters
of the enemy fleet at Corfu, but there was one too weak here, it
was not ready to sail, and without hindrance was the first set to
land transport.

While the vessels fell immediately to the second completed, Caesar
still rose over the same evening akrokeraunischen mountains. His first
successes were as big as the surprise of the enemy.

The storm continued epirotische country is nowhere to defend the important
Hafenstaedte Orikon and Apollonia as well as a lot of smaller towns
have been taken away; Dyrrhachion from the main Pompeianern Waffenplatz
chosen and stores of all kinds filled, but only weakly occupied, floated
in the greatest danger. -- --------------------------------------------------
^ 5 ----- After the revised calendar, on 5 November 705 (49).
-------------------------------------------- ------------ Meanwhile, the
further course of this campaign was not brilliant beginnings. Bibulus
made the discounts, which he had done wrong, subsequently doubled
efforts by some well again.

Not only was he returning from the transport ships of thirty to take
it all with the man and the mouse had burned, but he also directed along
the whole of occupied Kuestenstrichs Caesar, from the island Sason
(Saseno) to the ports of Corfu, the careful Guard service, so
arduous, the harsh season and the need to guard ships all needs,
even wood and water, of Corfu that, did the same, so his successor
Libo - soon he himself was subject to unusual strain - even blocked
for a time the port of Brundisium to him from the small island off
the same, on which he had set, the water re-distribution.

It was Caesar's officers is not possible, its the second commander of
the army transport nachzufuehren.

Nor was it even the removal of Dyrrhachion.

Pompey learned by a messenger of peace from Caesar's preparations for
the trip to the coast epirotischen and then accelerating the march he is
still just at the right time in this important space weapons.

Caesar's situation was critical. Although he was in Epirus as far spread
as it in its low strength was only possible, it remained the
subsistence of his army but difficult and uncertain, while the enemy
in possession of the magazines of Dyrrhachion and gentlemen of the
sea , abundance of everything had.

With its probably little over 20000 men strong army, he was able to at
least twice as many Pompeianischen not offer battle, but had to count
themselves lucky that Pompey methodically went to work and, instead of
immediately to force the battle between Dyrrhachion and Apollonia
on the right bank of Apsos, Caesar on the left towards the winter
quarters related to the spring, after the arrival of legions of
Pergamon, with irresistible power of the enemy about to destroy them.

So verflossen months. If the occurrence of the better season,
the enemies of strong immigration and the free use of its fleet
was, Caesar still in the same situation took place, so was he, with
his weak Scharnstein between the fleet and the huge triple superior
Landheer of the enemies in the Rocky epirotischen being stuck,
apparently lost, and have tended the winter to end.

All hope is still based on the transport fleet: that the blockade
is durchschlich or durchschlug, was hardly to be hoped, but after
the first voluntary Recklessness was the second by the need warranted.

How desperate Caesar himself appeared in his position, proving
his determination, as the fleet was not always alone on a fishing boat
by the Adriatic Sea to Brundisium to drive, in order to get what,
in fact, just about carried because there was no Schiffer the daring
journey to undertake.

However, it took his personal appearance is not to the loyal officer
who commanded in Italy, Marcus Antonius, to determine this final
attempt to rescue his master to do.

Still ran the transport fleet, with four legions and 800 riders on board,
from the port of Brundisium happy and led a strong southerly winds at Liboš
galleys over. With the same wind that saved the fleet, made it impossible,
as it was ordered, on the coast apolloniatischen to land, and
forced them to Caesar and Pompeius' camp vorbeizufahren and north
of Dyrrhachion to Lissos to control the city good luck to be held
Caesar.

When she at the port of Dyrrhachion vorueberfuhr, broke the Rhodian
galleys, in order to pursue them, and hardly had Antonius' ships in the
harbor of Lissos retracted, as well as the enemy appeared before
the same squadron. But just at this moment beat the winds suddenly and
threw to the galleys tracked back into the open sea and in part
due to the rocky coast.

Thanks to the wonderful Glueckszufaelle was also the landing of the second
transport succeeded. Although, yet Anthony and Caesar Tagemaersche
about four of each other, separated by Dyrrhachion and the
entire enemy army, however, Anthony puts the happy Dyrrhachion
dangerous to march around the passes of the Balkans and became Graba
of Caesar, who entgegengegangen was on the right bank of Apsos
recorded.

Pompey, after he had unsuccessfully tried, the unification of the two
enemy armies and to prevent the Corps of Antonius individually to
hitting to force took a new position in Asparagion to the river Genusas
(Uschkomobin), Apsos the parallel between this and the City Dyrrhachion
flows, and held here again motionless. He now feels itself strong
enough to deliver a battle, but Pompey was not prepared. On the other hand,
succeeded Caesar, to deceive the enemy, and suddenly, with its marching
troops is better, similar to Ilerda, between the enemy's camp and the
fortress Dyrrhachion to throw to which this is based. The chain of Graba
Balkans, in the direction from east to west Stressing on the
Adriatic sea in the narrow tongue of land dyrrhachinischen ends,
sends three miles east of Dyrrhachion south-westerly direction in
a branch, in the arch direction also applies to the seas, and the
main - and the side of the mountain close between a small to a cliff
on the sea beach spreading level.

Here Pompey now took his camp, and although the army of Caesar after his
land was Dyrrhachion relocated, but he remained with the help of his
fleet continue with this city and was linked from there with all necessary
provide ample and convenient, while at the Caesarianern, despite
strong Detachierungen in the hinterland, and despite all the efforts
of Mr.

Field, an orderly Fahrwesen and thus regular meals in motion to bring it
more than just herging and meat, barley, roots, so very often the place
of the usual wheat arrogates represented. As the phlegmatic opponents
doggedly remained in his passivity, Caesar undertook the height district
to fill the beach taken by Pompey level, enclosed by at least the superior
enemy cavalry and to undisturbed against Dyrrhachion able to operate, but
perhaps the opponent either to slaughter or to necessary to embarkation.
From Caesar's troops were almost half the land detached, it seemed
almost bizarre, with the rest a perhaps twice as numerous, concentrated
situated on the sea and the fleet-based army to besiege somehow want.

Nevertheless joined Caesars veterans unspeakable efforts Pompeianische
the stock with a three and a half miles of German postal chain and
added later, before ebenwie Alesia, to this inner line, a second
outer Add to protect themselves against attacks from Dyrrhachion
from the front and with assistance of the fleet so easy workarounds
to protect executable.

Pompey took several of these to hide, perhaps to the enemy line to blow,
simply by the inclusion of a battle trying to stop it does not,
but withdrew it before, even to his camp itself around a number of
jumps, and in the same lines by combining .

On both sides there was a try, the hills as far as possible those
plans and moved to Sustainable Earthworks battles only slowly.

At the same time suggested on the opposite side of Caesar's camp is
spreading with the crew before Dyrrhachion; by consent within the fortress
they hoped Caesar in his power to bring ward but by the enemy fleet to
prevent it. Grew steadily at various points - at one of the hottest days
in six places at the same time - ment under and usually kept in these
skirmishes, the tried valor of Caesarianer the upper hand, as for example
because even a single cohort itself against four legions several hours
in Hill gave her until herbeikam support.

A major success was achieved on any side, but made the effects of inclusion
in the Pompeianern gradually felt oppressive manner. The damming of
the heights to the level that they pour out streams urged to deal with
savings and a poor well water to be tolerated. Even more sensitive was
the lack of fodder for the beasts of burden and the horses, which the
fleet could not be sufficient remedy, they were numerous and it helped
very little that the horses through the fleet after Dyrrhachion done,
because they are not sufficient forage found.

Long Pompey could no longer hesitate to have a guided against the
enemy from his shock uncomfortable situation.

Since he was Celtic through Ueberlaeufer informed that the enemy had
failed, the beach between his two 600 feet away from each other
by a hill chains Querwall secure, and built this plan.

While the inner line of the Caesars hide from the warehouse by the
legions, the outer vessel through the compound on both sides of the enemy's
light troops landed fortify attack left, landed a third division in the
space between two lines and attacked the already sufficiently busy
Defender back to the same.

Initially located at the seaside hill was taken and the crew fled
in wild confusion, with difficulty succeeded the commander of the
next hill, Marcus Antonius, and to say this for the moment, the
penetration of Pompeianer to set a goal, but, apart from the
considerable loss, remained extreme hill by the sea in the hands
of Pompeianer and the broken line.

So eager Caesar seized the opportunity provided to him soon afterwards
darbot an imprudent to vereinzelnde Pompeianische Legion of the vast
bulk of his infantry to attack. The attacked made valiant
resistance, and in the camps several times larger and smaller departments
used and criss-crossed by walls and ditches marked by terrain, which was
ment under, Caesar's right wing came together with the whole cavalry of
paths from the left instead of the attack Pompeianische to the Legion
to support, he was a close, from one of the old camp to the river
hingefuehrten running ditch. Thus was Pompey who help those with him
with five legions hurry herbeikam, the two wings of the enemy separated
and the one in an entirely priced given position. As the Caesarianer
saw him move, grabbed a panic fright, everything fell back in a wild
flight, and if there is the loss of 1000 of the best soldiers and
Caesar's army was not suffered a complete defeat, so they only had the
circumstance to thank that Pompey are on the average soil could
not develop and, moreover, a Kriegslist procure, his forces initially
withheld.

But even so, there were ominous days. Not only were the Caesar sensitive
losses and its hide, the result of a giant four-month job, at a stroke
taking important: he was the last battles carefully back to the point
from which he was expected. From the lake was completely squeezed than
ever, since Pompey's son Gnaeus Caesar few, in the port of warships Orikon
stored by a bold attack partly burned and partly taken away, and
soon afterwards in fleets Lissos backwardness troops also set on
fire had every opportunity by Brundisium further increase costs to
the sea, for Caesar was so lost.

The numerous cavalry Pompeianische, now rid of their shackles, spilled into
the neighborhood and threatened Caesar always difficult catering for
the army completely impossible to make. Caesars daring undertaking,
against a maritime powers, based on the enemy without a fleet of
ships to operate offensively, had failed completely.

On the former war zone he found himself a position unbezwinglichen defense
against Dyrrhachion and neither against nor against the enemy army
a serious blow can execute, while now it was only from Pompey,
against the already very vulnerable Subsistenzmitteln his opponent
under the caution for assault ueberzugehen.

March threw himself back in his chair and looked at him with a kind of
stupefaction, in which his eye wandered to the doorway, where he saw
Fulkerson standing, it seemed to him a long time, before he heard him
saying: "Hello, hello! What's the row? Conrad pitching into you on old
Lindau's account, too?"

The young man turned, and, after a glance at Fulkerson's light, smiling
face, went out, as if in his present mood he could not bear the contact
of that persiflant spirit.

March felt himself getting provisionally very angry again. "Excuse me,
Fulkerson, but did you know when you went out what Mr. Dryfoos wanted to
see me for?"

"Well, no, I didn't exactly," said Fulkerson, taking his usual seat on a
chair and looking over the back of it at March. "I saw he was on his car
about something, and I thought I'd better not monkey with him much. I
supposed he was going to bring you to book about old Lindau, somehow."
Fulkerson broke into a laugh.

March remained serious. "Mr. Dryfoos," he said, willing to let the simple
statement have its own weight with Fulkerson, and nothing more, "came in
here and ordered me to discharge Lindau from his employment on the
magazine--to turn him off, as he put it."

"Did he?" asked Fulkerson, with unbroken cheerfulness. "The old man is
business, every time. Well, I suppose you can easily get somebody else to
do Lindau's work for you. This town is just running over with
half-starved linguists. What did you say?"

"What did I say?" March echoed. "Look here, Fulkerson; you may regard
this as a joke, but I don't. I'm not used to being spoken to as if I were
the foreman of a shop, and told to discharge a sensitive and cultivated
man like Lindau, as if he were a drunken mechanic; and if that's your
idea of me--"

"Oh, hello, now, March! You mustn't mind the old man's way. He don't mean
anything by it--he don't know any better, if you come to that."

"Then I know better," said March. "I refused to receive any instructions
from Mr. Dryfoos, whom I don't know in my relations with 'Every Other
Week,' and I referred him to you."

"You did?" Fulkerson whistled. "He owns the thing!"

"I don't care who owns the thing," said March. "My negotiations were with
you alone from the beginning, and I leave this matter with you. What do
you wish done about Lindau?"

"Oh, better let the old fool drop," said Fulkerson. "He'll light on his
feet somehow, and it will save a lot of rumpus."

"And if I decline to let him drop?"

"Oh, come, now, March; don't do that," Fulkerson began.

"If I decline to let him drop," March repeated, "what will you do?"

"I'll be dogged if I know what I'll do," said Fulkerson. "I hope you
won't take that stand. If the old man went so far as to speak to you
about it, his mind is made up, and we might as well knock under first as
last."

"And do you mean to say that you would not stand by me in what I
considered my duty-in a matter of principle?"

"Why, of course, March," said Fulkerson, coaxingly, "I mean to do the
right thing. But Dryfoos owns the magazine--"

"He doesn't own me," said March, rising. "He has made the little mistake
of speaking to me as if he did; and when"--March put on his hat and took
his overcoat down from its nail--"when you bring me his apologies, or
come to say that, having failed to make him understand they were
necessary, you are prepared to stand by me, I will come back to this
desk. Otherwise my resignation is at your service."

He started toward the door, and Fulkerson intercepted him. "Ah, now, look
here, March! Don't do that! Hang it all, don't you see where it leaves
me? Now, you just sit down a minute and talk it over. I can make you
see--I can show you--Why, confound the old Dutch beer-buzzer! Twenty of
him wouldn't be worth the trouble he's makin'. Let him go, and the old
man 'll come round in time."

Nevertheless, the Gaul Cisalpinische with its dense population mainly
bauernschaftlichen before Caesar to be a thing of the Italian landscape
and remained for centuries the right haven Italic Italic education
and custom, as because the teachers of Latin literature nowhere
else outside the capital, as many popular and were received.

Therefore, if the Cisalpinische Gaul in Italy was up significantly, it
also occurs in the area that it previously had used the transalpinische
province, who by Caesar's conquests from a border in an inland province,
and had been transformed by their proximity as their climate change
before all other areas is suitable, with the same period if a
landscape to be italic. There mainly by the old target of the overseas
settlements of the Roman democracy, was the stream of Italian
emigration led. There were some daselbst the old colony Narbo reinforced
by new settlers, and partly in Baeterrae (Beziers) near Narbo in Arelate
(Arles) and Arausio (orange) on the Rhone and the new port city Iulii
Forum (Frejus), four new colonies created Buerger, their names at the
same time the memory of the brave legions preserved the northern Gaul the
empires brought ^ 29th The colonists not occupied towns also seem, at least
mostly, in the same way once the country transpadanische chain, the
Romanization entgegengefuehrt to have been awarded by city law Latin;
was named Nemausus (Nimes) as the capital of the Massalioten due
to their rebellion against Caesar withdrawn area from a massaliotischen
Latin spots in a city and municipality converted with considerable area,
and even equipped with mint coins ^ 30th By then the Cisalpinische Gaul
from the preparatory stage to full equality with Italy fortschritt, moved
at the same time the province in narbonensische preparatory stage after
that, just as in the past Cisalpinischen Gaul had respectable
communities daselbst a full citizen, the other Latin Law. --
------------------------------- Narbo ^ 29 means the colony Decimaner,
Baeterrae the Septimaner, forum Iulii the Octavaner, the Arelate
Sextaner, Arausio the Secundaner.

The Ninth Legion's missing, because their number by the mutiny of
Placentia was dishonored.

That way, the settlers of these colonies eponymen the legions, is not
said and can not believe the veterans themselves were at least the
large majority following in Italy. Cicero's claim that Caesar "All
provinces and landscapes at a stroke had confiscated" (off 2, 7, 27,
see Phil 13.15, 31, 32), is without a doubt, as has been the close
links with the same rebuke of triumph over the Massalioten proves this
to the colonies because in the province's land narbonensischen recoveries
and first on the territory imposed Massalia losses. ^ 30 survived
strongly, it is not, by whom the Latin legal nichtkolonisierten
towns of this region and especially of Nemausus comes .

But since Caesar himself (civ. 1, 35) almost as good as saying that
Nemausus to 705 (49) One massaliotisches village was given after the
Livianischen report (Dio 41, 25, Flor. Építés. 2, 13; Oros. hist.
6, 15) the same part of the territory of the Massalioten since
Caesar was finally withdrawn on voraugustischen already Muenzen
Strabon and then in the city as Latin community justice occurs, it
can only Caesar the perpetrators of these Latinitaetsverleihung be.

From Ruscino (Roussillon in Perpignan), and others in the Gaul
Narbonensischen early to Latin urban communities came Constitution
can only suspect that the same simultaneously with Nemausus received.
------------------ --------------- In the other non-Greek
nichtlatinischen and landscapes of the Empire, which the influence
of Italy and the assimilation process is also focused, limited
itself to Caesar, single focal point for Italian civilization to
establish as previously Narbo in Gaul had been to the future they
prepare for full compensation.

Such origins allow, with the exception of the poorest and least of
all, the region of Sardinia, in all provinces of the empire to prove.

Like Caesar in Gaul proceeded north, was already explained, the Latin
language was here, though not for all branches of public transport
throughout the official application and it was on Lemansee as the
northernmost town of the Italian Constitution colony Noviodunum (Nyon).
In Spain, probably was the most densely populated landscape of the
Roman Empire were not only important in the Hellenic-Iberian port
city next to the old Emporiae People Caesars colonists located,
but, as recently found documents have shown, a number probably
mostly about the metropolitan proletariat retrieved colonists in
the town Urso (Osuna), near the heart of Seville in Andalusia, and
perhaps in several other towns of this province supplies.

The old city and rich buying Gades, whose Munizipalwesen Caesar was a
praetor-date reshaped had now received from the Emperor the full
right of Italian municipalities (705 49) and was what in Italy
Tusculum had been the first ausseritalische not founded by Rome
community, in the Roman citizens association occurred.

A few years later (709 45) has the same right also some other Spanish
towns, and probably even more the Latin granted. In Africa, which Gaius
Gracchus had not come to an end result to be, now and into the works
at that site, where the city confessed to the hereditary enemies of Rome,
3000 Italian colonists and a large number of Carthaginian territory and
leasehold Bittbesitzer located, and to the astonishment grew rapidly
under the favorable Lokalverhaeltnissen incomparably the new "Venus
Colony," the Roman Carthage, back up.

Utica, until then the main and first trading city in the province, was
already anticipated, it seems to be supported by the grant of the Latin
right, for the reawakening of the superior competitor has been reasonably
compensated. In the newly joined numidischen of the area were the important
Cirta and the other, the Roman Publius Condotti Sittius for themselves
and their communities with him over the right assigned Roman
Militaerkolonien. The stately Provinzstaedte admittedly the mad fury
Jubas and the desperate remnants of the Constitution Party turns into
rubble pile had not raised again as soon as they had been cremated,
and some Truemmerstaette remembered long after these disastrous
times, only the two new July Chen colonies, Carthage and Cirta, were and
remained the center of African-Roman civilization. In the Greek desertified
land except Caesar employees with other plans, such as the establishment
of a Roman colony in Buthroton (Corfu gegenueber) mainly deals
with the restoration of Corinth, was not just a good citizen colony there,
but also the plan designed by the Isthmus Puncture of the dangerous
circumnavigation of the Peloponnese, and cut off the whole
Italic-Asian transport through the Corinthian-Saronic Gulf to lead.

Finally cried even in the remote east of the Hellenistic monarch
Italic settlements into life: so on the Black Sea in Herakleia and Sinope,
which the Italian cities as Emporiae colonists similar with the old
residents informed, so the Syrian coast in the important port of Berytos
the Italian Constitution as Sinope was indeed in Egypt was on the
port of Alexandreia dominant island's Roman lighthouse station
established.

Through these arrangements was the Italian community in freedom far more
widely than it previously had happened in the provinces worn. The
Vollbuergergemeinden, so all cities of the province and cisalpinischen
in the Transalpinischen Gaul and otherwise scattered colonies and
Buergermunizipien citizens, were the Italian equivalent insofar as
they themselves own and manage, but limited, jurisdiction exercised:
but certainly the more important processes from the here Roman
competent authorities, usually the governor of the district belonged
31st ^ The formally autonomous and the other Latin communities
liberated, so now the sizilischen and Narbonensischen of Gaul, where
they were not citizens municipalities, and also in all other provinces
a considerable number, were not merely the freedom to manage, but
probably unlimited jurisdiction, so that the governor here only by
virtue of its very arbitrary but administrative control was empowered
to intervene.

Well it had also earlier been Vollbuergergemeinden within Sprengel,
where the governor, such as Aquileia and Narbo, and had all the district
governor, as the Diesseits Gaul, from municipalities with Italic
constitution passed, but if not legally, but politically it was
an extremely important innovation, that there was now a province,
as well as Italy only by Roman citizens was populated ^ 32, and
that others are to be promised.

It was thus of a large real antithesis, in which Italy to the provinces
had, and also the second, that in Italy regular troops were not, but in
the provinces, was equally in the disappearance of the troops were
now only where there is a limit to defend existed, and the commanders
of the provinces, where this is not correct, as for example in Narbo
and Sicily, were in name only or officers.

The formal contrast between Italy and the provinces, which at all times
based on other differences had remained, however, now exist, Italy, the
civil jurisdiction of the courts and the consuls-praetor, provinces warring
legal jurisdiction and the districts and proconsuls Propraetoren
subject; alone Process according to Buerger and after martial law
was a long practice together, and the various titles of the officials
had little meaning, since about every one stood Imperator.
------------------- ^ 31 ---------------------------- That
Vollbuergergemeinde no more than limited state jurisdiction, is
identified.

Strikingly, however, it is what the Caesars for the local government
determines Cisalpinische Gaul showing that beyond the municipal
competence underlying processes in this province before the governor
is not the same, but the Roman praetor go, because the other is the
governor in his yes Sprengel as much instead of the praetor, between
the citizens and instead of between citizens and law Nichtbuergern
speaking, and certainly for all processes competently.

Without doubt, this is an overnight rest of the vorsullanischen order,
where in the whole continental area to the Alps only the city
officials were competent, and so here all the processes, where it
exceeded municipal competence, necessary before the praetor in Rome.

But in Narbo, Gades, Carthage, Corinth, the processes in this case
to ensure the relevant governor, as also because of practical
considerations are not well according to one instance can be thought
of Rome. ^ 32 Why the issue of the Roman civil law at a landscape
whole and the survival of the provincial administration for the
same as mutually exclusive opposites are thought to maintain, is
not in sight.

Moreover, the well-received by the Cisalpinische Gaul Roscischen
National Final on 11 March 705 (49) the Civitaet, while it remained
the province, as long as Caesar lived, and only after his death was
united with Italy (Dio 48, 12), even the governor to 711 (43) are
detectable.

Even that Caesar Gemeindeordnung never the landscape than Italy, but as
a means Cisalpinisches Gaul, had the right to lead.
--------------------------- -------------------- It seems that in
all these foundations and individual municipal ordinances, at least
at the plan, though perhaps not all of the design according to
Caesar back, a particular system.

Italy became the mistress of the subject Voelkerschaften transformed into
the mother of the tapered-Italic Hellenic nation. The mother of the
country completely assimilated cisalpinische Province promised and
guaranteed that the monarchy of Caesar, ebenwie fresher in the era
of the Republic, every landscape latinisierte could expect, the
older sisters and the mother herself equal to the side to replace
them.

On the precursor to the full national and political compromise with Italy
were countries whose Besides, the Greek Sicily and rapidly Latinisation
southern Gaul.

On a distant stage for this adjustment was to the other landscapes of the
empire in which, as previously Suedgallien Narbo was Roman colony, now
the big Seestaedte: Emporiae, Gades, Carthage, Corinth, Herakleia in Pontos,
Sinope, Berytos, Alexandreia, Hellenic-Italian or Italian communities
were the bases of Italic civilization itself in the Greek East,
the cornerstone of future national policy and leveling of the empire.

The reign of the City of Rome on the littoral of the Mediterranean
was at an end, and in its place came the new Mediterranean state
and his first act was to Suehnung the two biggest crimes that the
city municipality to the civilization he had committed.

If the destruction of the two largest in the Roman Handelsplaetze area
called the turning point where the patronage of the Roman church in political
bullying and financial exploitation of the transferred untertaenigen
landscapes, now designated as the immediate and brilliant restoration of
Carthage and Corinth, the substantiation of the new, all landscapes
the Mediterranean Sea to the national and political equality, the
state agreed to develop a truly great community.

Caesar was probably the city of Corinth to their old vielberuehmten
the new name of "July's honorary" status.

So when the new unified kingdom Nationality equipped with a ward,
which admittedly necessarily lacked individuality of folk and more
unlebendiges art product as a fresh shoot of nature , so also did the
same unity in those institutions where the general life of nations is
moving in the Constitution and administration, religion and justice,
in coins, Weights and Measures, with local peculiarities naturally
diverse nature with essential agreement is fully vertrugen. Everywhere in
these areas may only started to talk about, because the single Durchbildung
Caesars of the monarchy in the future was and he did nothing, as for
centuries, the construction of the basic basket.

But the lines which the great man in these fields has yet to recognize
that some, and it is gratifying to him to consider here, as in the Truemmerbau
the nationalities. With regard to the constitution and administration
were already in another context, the main moments of the new entity
are highlighted: the transition of sovereignty from the council on
the Roman ruler of the Mediterranean Sea alone monarchy and the
transformation of that into a municipal highest, Italy as the
provinces representing Reichsrat: primarily the ongoing transfer
of the Roman and Italic about all the local government at the
provincial communes .

It led the latter path, the awarding Latin Roman law and thus to the
complete entry into the unified state communities mature, evenly
municipal ordinances slowly by itself of guilt. Only in one respect,
this could not wait. The new empire had now an institution that
the Government of the principal foundations of management, population and
Vermoegensverhaeltnisse of individual communities, clearly laid
before the eyes, which means an improved census.

First was the Italic reformed.

After Caesar ^ Regulation 33, which admittedly probably only the result of
the allies war at least in principle, taken orders for the execution
said, should in future, if the Roman Church which estimation was held
simultaneously in each of the Italic name of each municipality
Buergermeister and his father, or leave blank, his district, his
age and his fortunes by the highest authority of the municipality
recorded and these lists to the Treasurer Roman delivered so early
that the general list of Roman citizens and Roman I could finish
in time.

That it was Caesar's intention, similar institutions in the provinces
introduce effectively guaranteed partly arranged by Caesar and
Katastrierung surveying of the entire empire, sometimes the body
itself, because it was so that the general formula, so as well as
in the Italic nichtitalischen in the communities of the State Central
Administration for the necessary shots to lead.

Apparently, it was Caesar's intention here, to the older traditions of the
Republican period and the return re Reichsschatzung, the oldest
Republic, much in the same way as the Italian Caesar, by analogous
extension of the institute of urban censorship with its deadlines
and other relevant standards all subjects on the communities of
Italy and Sicily, who were.

It was one of the first institutions have been, the torpor of the aristocracy,
and thus forfeited the top administrative overview of all the teams
and Steuerkraefte disposable and therefore any possibility of
effective control could be lost.

The existing tracks and the connection between the things themselves
unwidersprechlich show that the renewal of Caesar has been missing
Reichsschatzung prepared. ---------------------------
------------------------ ^ 33 The persistence of municipal
Schatzungsbehoerden suggests that the local organization of the
census is already a result of the war allies in Italy had been
continued ( Roman Constitutional Law, Vol 2, 3rd edition, p. 368),
but probably is the implementation of this system works Caesars.
----------------------- ---------------------------- That in religion
and in the administration of justice to a radical leveling could
not be thought, is hardly necessary to say but took the new state
of tolerance to all local faith and a common Munizipalstatute, the
Ital-Hellenic Culture and Nationality corresponding to a general,
overarching Munizipalstatuten the legal statutes.

He took her, because both were actually already there. In the religious
field, it was worked for centuries, the Italic and Hellenic cult
partly due to external host, partly through internal adjustment
of the deity and in terms ineinanderzuarbeiten yielding the
formlessness of the Italic gods had great difficulty not even made
it to Jupiter in the Zeus , Venus in the Aphrodite, and so any
significant idea of faith in their Latin American counter-image
bright lift.

The Ital-Hellenic religion was already done in the principles because,
as you very precisely in this field was aware, about the specific
Roman addition to a Hellenistic-Italic Quasinationalitaet advanced
to be verified, for example, already mentioned in Varros Theology
established distinction between the "ordinary", ie by the Romans
as the Greeks recognized Gods, from the particular to the Roman
community.

The legal system had it on the areas of criminal justice and police, where
the government directly intervenes and the legal need much more
by a Legislation will be circumspect enough, no difficulty in the
way of legislative activity are those of degree of material uniformity
to be achieved, however, also here for the imperial unit was
necessary.

In contrast, civil law, where the traffic initiative, the legislature
only the formulation of law, was the uniform civil kingdom, which the
legislature to create not managed had already a long way to naturgemaessem
by the traffic itself has been developed.

The Roman city law is legally still based on the Twelve in the formulation
of the tablets contained Latin Landrecht. The later laws were probably
different in many-date improvements introduced, among which may
be the most liked the abolition of the old clumsy Prozesseroeffnung
by following formulas acquittal of the parties and their replacement
by a process of the senior officials drafted a written instruction
for the individual jurors (formula); alone on the merits, the only
Volkslegislation about those old gray basis, a British Statutargesetzen
comparable Wust unuebersehlichen largely outdated and a long-forgotten
special laws aufgeschichtet.

The attempts of scientific formulation and systematization, the winding
corridors of the old civil code, however, made accessible and
illuminates alone the basic defect that before the four hundred
years drafted urban Weistum with its diffuse well as confused now
as addenda to the right of a big state should serve, could not Roman
Blackstone remedy.

Thorough traffic helped himself in Rome had a long busy traffic between
the Romans and Nichtroemern an international private law (ius gentium,
1, 167), which means a complex of statutes, including about
Verkehrsverhaeltnisse, according to which Roman judge then said, if a
Case neither their own nor any other country could be rightly decided,
but they were obliged by the Roman, Greek, Phoenician and other
Rechtseigentuemlichkeiten waive all traffic on the underlying common
legal opinion back. You establish the new legal education. First as a guide
for the legal movement of Roman citizens among them, she took the place
of the old, practically useless actually become a new city law, the material
was based on a compromise between the national and international
Zwoelftafelrecht or the so-called rights of peoples.

That was essential, although of course with modern modifications, held
in marriage, family and inheritance law, in contrast, was all the
provisions of the Vermoegensverkehr concerned, that is for property
and contracts, the International Right prevail, so here was even
the local provincial law some important institution borrows, for
example, usury laws and the mortgage.

Whether at once or gradually, whether by one or more authors, by
whom, when and how this profound change in life occurred, are
questions to which we have a sufficient answer to this must remain,
we only know that this reform, as naturally, First out of the city
court that they first be formulated in a year by the newly applies
to city magistrates after consideration of the parties comes on the
main teachings in the early judicial year indicating legal maxims
(or edictum annuum perpetuum de iuris urbani praetoris diction) and
that they , although some preparatory steps in earlier periods may
be done safely only in this era was their completion.

"And
what are you going to do now?"

"That's what I don't know," said Fulkerson, ruefully. After a moment he
said, desperately, "Beaton, you've got a pretty good head; why don't you
suggest something?"

"Why don't you let March go?" Beaton suggested.

"Ah, I couldn't," said Fulkerson. "I got him to break up in Boston and
come here; I like him; nobody else could get the hang of the thing like
he has; he's--a friend." Fulkerson said this with the nearest approach he
could make to seriousness, which was a kind of unhappiness.

Beaton shrugged. "Oh, if you can afford to have ideals, I congratulate
you. They're too expensive for me. Then, suppose you get rid of Dryfoos?"

Fulkerson laughed forlornly. "Go on, Bildad. Like to sprinkle a few ashes
over my boils? Don't mind me!"

They both sat silent a little while, and then Beaton said, "I suppose you
haven't seen Dryfoos the second time?"

"No. I came in here to gird up my loins with a little dinner before I
tackled him. But something seems to be the matter with Maroni's cook. I
don't want anything to eat."

"The cooking's about as bad as usual," said Beaton. After a moment he
added, ironically, for he found Fulkerson's misery a kind of relief from
his own, and was willing to protract it as long as it was amusing, "Why
not try an envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary?"

"What do you mean?"

"Get that other old fool to go to Dryfoos for you!"

"Which other old fool? The old fools seem to be as thick as flies."

"That Southern one."

"Colonel Woodburn?"

"Mmmmm."

"He did seem to rather take to the colonel!" Fulkerson mused aloud.

"Of course he did. Woodburn, with his idiotic talk about patriarchal
slavery, is the man on horseback to Dryfoos's muddy imagination. He'd
listen to him abjectly, and he'd do whatever Woodburn told him to do."
Beaton smiled cynically.

Fulkerson got up and reached for his coat and hat. "You've struck it, old
man." The waiter came up to help him on with his coat; Fulkerson slipped
a dollar in his hand. "Never mind the coat; you can give the rest of my
dinner to the poor, Paolo. Beaton, shake! You've saved my life, little
boy, though I don't think you meant it." He took Beaton's hand and
solemnly pressed it, and then almost ran out of the door.

They had just reached coffee at Mrs. Leighton's when he arrived and sat
down with them and began to put some of the life of his new hope into
them. His appetite revived, and, after protesting that he would not take
anything but coffee, he went back and ate some of the earlier courses.
But with the pressure of his purpose driving him forward, he did not
conceal from Miss Woodburn, at least, that he was eager to get her apart
from the rest for some reason. When he accomplished this, it seemed as if
he had contrived it all himself, but perhaps he had not wholly contrived
it.

"I'm so glad to get a chance to speak to you alone," he said at once; and
while she waited for the next word he made a pause, and then said,
desperately, "I want you to help me; and if you can't help me, there's no
help for me."

"Mah goodness," she said, "is the case so bad as that? What in the woald
is the trouble?"

"Yes, it's a bad case," said Fulkerson. "I want your father to help me."

"Oh, I thoat you said me!"

"Yes; I want you to help me with your father. I suppose I ought to go to
him at once, but I'm a little afraid of him."

"And you awe not afraid of me? I don't think that's very flattering, Mr.
Fulkerson. You ought to think Ah'm twahce as awful as papa."

"Oh, I do! You see, I'm quite paralyzed before you, and so I don't feel
anything."

"Well, it's a pretty lahvely kyand of paralysis. But--go on."

"I will--I will. If I can only begin."

"Pohaps Ah maght begin fo' you."

"No, you can't. Lord knows, I'd like to let you. Well, it's like this."

Fulkerson made a clutch at his hair, and then, after another hesitation,
he abruptly laid the whole affair before her. He did not think it
necessary to state the exact nature of the offence Lindau had given
Dryfoos, for he doubted if she could grasp it, and he was profuse of his
excuses for troubling her with the matter, and of wonder at himself for
having done so. In the rapture of his concern at having perhaps made a
fool of himself, he forgot why he had told her; but she seemed to like
having been confided in, and she said, "Well, Ah don't see what you can
do with you' ahdeals of friendship except stand bah Mr. Mawch."

"My ideals of friendship? What do you mean?"

"Oh, don't you suppose we know? Mr. Beaton said you we' a pofect Bahyard
in friendship, and you would sacrifice anything to it."

"Is that so?" said Fulkerson, thinking how easily he could sacrifice
Lindau in this case. He had never supposed before that he was chivalrous
in such matters, but he now began to see it in that light, and he
wondered that he could ever have entertained for a moment the idea of
throwing March over.

"But Ah most say," Miss Woodburn went on, "Ah don't envy you you' next
interview with Mr. Dryfoos. Ah suppose you'll have to see him at once
aboat it."

The conjecture recalled Fulkerson to the object of his confidences. "Ah,
there's where your help comes in. I've exhausted all the influence I have
with Dryfoos--"

"Good gracious, you don't expect Ah could have any!"

They both laughed at the comic dismay with which she conveyed the
preposterous notion; and Fulkerson said, "If I judged from myself, I
should expect you to bring him round instantly."

"Oh, thank you, Mr. Fulkerson," she said, with mock meekness.

"Not at all. But it isn't Dryfoos I want you to help me with; it's your
father. I want your father to interview Dryfoos for me, and I-I'm afraid
to ask him."

"Poo' Mr. Fulkerson!" she said, and she insinuated something through her
burlesque compassion that lifted him to the skies. He swore in his heart
that the woman never lived who was so witty, so wise, so beautiful, and
so good. During his passage until he could Cattaro after the fierce
battles between the French and Bokelo-Montenegrins on both sides of the
bay to watch. They were fighting in the surrounding villages, which
by nature are fixed so that each one for himself as a bulwark can be.
_Prtchanj_ And _Dobrota_ arose. _Perast_ When it came to a
particularly violent collision.

The Perastaner distributed with the help of some of the French and
Montenegrins liberated their town.

The small fortress above Perast was not easy to defeat, but had finally
here, the French soft.

The Perastaner there were some guns and other weapons. This small
fortress dominated the island _St.

Perast Georg_ before, where a French battery was located. Therefore, their
conquest was now much easier. After a long bombardment the island had to
be revealed.

The Bokel some 80 Frenchmen were captured and 10 guns daselbst. Still
on 10 October posted the Vladika _Sava Plamcuaz_ with a department after
Montenegrins Castelnuovo, to both the city and fortresses to siege and
the connection between Bocca and Ragusa off.

As soon as the Englishman had arrived before Cattaro, came after a brief
meeting between the commander Vladika Hoste and the rest of the
army to Castel Nuovo.

An English department joined with the Slavs and marched to the coast along
the Bay of Cattaro to Castel Nuovo.

Hoste himself returned with his ships in order and made in front of
Castel Nuovo halt. Castelnuovo was heavily under siege from land and ocean.
The bombardment began immediately.

The Frenchman made two days and two nights, tough resistance. But
more could she not be kept. They arose, and thus were both
strongholds Castelnuovo and _Espagnola_ the rubber in the hands. Hoste and
Vladika had a crew in the forts and then returned back Cattaro. Of all
the cities and fortresses of the Bocca Cattaro only remained in the
possession of the French. His conquest was but the main thing. Now his
fate should be decided as soon as possible 14. Siege and surrender Cattaros.
The Bokel and Montenegrins went immediately after it Cattaro and
besieged from all sides.

Since Troiza in previous fights had been destroyed, had no real fortress
Cattaro more. But hardly a city in the world is so well fortified by
nature as Cattaro.

One need only _Vrmaz_ on the hill above the town a good aufzupflanzen
chain gun, then Cattaro impregnable.

The French had a good top battery, but the Montenegrins have
previously had been stormed, and not from the side, which they dominated,
but from behind, ie from the Montenegrin soil. Cattaro In order to
conquer, you had so necessarily a number of guns on the mountains
Vrmaz have. Some guns were Montenegrins captured by the French and some
of them had guns themselves, which is on St.

George and Castel Nuovo had conquered, took his hosts on ships across.
As he hesitated, but these guns at the same Cattaro off-and on the
go Vrmaz to leave the Bokel feared that he had these guns do not
need to Cattaro wanted and did so at the claim Vladika.

This informed the matter with the commander and asked him to refer
the case to speed possible. In this presentation of the Hoste Vladika
replied with a surprising letter that reads: "Would your high!

I had the honor of your letter received yesterday.

I regret that the population of the destruction of the fortress of St.
George understood evil, but because it happened only for the purpose
that the English Eskader the passage through _Verige_ in case of
any adverse circumstance be secured.

If your high, the guns are the residents returned, but you should know that
I had the intention on the same mountain hinaufzuschaffen and thus
Cattaro to shoot at.

Now I have my plan changed and become only the coast between Ragusa and
Cattaro block. In this intention, I will soon go out of the bay to the
enemy to guard 24.

October 1813. Your obedient servant _Hoste_. "" PS. The Abbate _Brunazzi_
has a lot of damage. His tireless intrigues can his emperor and
his allies only hurt, because it prevents the common work that we
have. "[86] This move was understandable host.

Because he was never safe from the enemy attacks from the back of her.

The colonel stood a moment in silence. "And what do you expect me to do
under the circumstances?"

"I came to you for advice--I thought you might suggest----?"

"Do you wish me to see Mr. Dryfoos?"

"Well, that's about the size of it," Fulkerson admitted. "You see,
colonel," he hastened on, "I know that you have a great deal of influence
with him; that article of yours is about the only thing he's ever read in
'Every Other Week,' and he's proud of your acquaintance. Well, you
know"--and here Fulkerson brought in the figure that struck him so much
in Beaton's phrase and had been on his tongue ever since--"you're the
man on horseback to him; and he'd be more apt to do what you say than if
anybody else said it."

"You are very good, sir," said the colonel, trying to be proof against
the flattery, "but I am afraid you overrate my influence." Fulkerson let
him ponder it silently, and his daughter governed her impatience by
holding her fan against her lips. Whatever the process was in the
colonel's mind, he said at last: "I see no good reason for declining to
act for you, Mr. Fulkerson, and I shall be very happy if I can be of
service to you. But"--he stopped Fulkerson from cutting in with
precipitate thanks--"I think I have a right, sir, to ask what your course
will be in the event of failure?"

"Failure?" Fulkerson repeated, in dismay.

"Yes, sir. I will not conceal from you that this mission is one not
wholly agreeable to my feelings."

"Oh, I understand that, colonel, and I assure you that I appreciate, I--"

"There is no use trying to blink the fact, sir, that there are certain
aspects of Mr. Dryfoos's character in which he is not a gentleman. We
have alluded to this fact before, and I need not dwell upon it now: I may
say, however, that my misgivings were not wholly removed last night."

The leasing system was for the existing indirect taxes, which are very old
and was, in which Caesar unceasing held maxim of the Roman financial
management, revenue collection at any price simply and clearly to
get worse, but does not could be.

The direct taxes but was now completely either, as the African and Sardinian
grain and oil supplies, treated as directly to government liabilities for
benefits in kind, or, as the Asia Minor differences in strong cash
charges and transforms the collection of the tax districts
Einzelbetraege themselves.

The grain distributions in the capital have been as useful to the
prevailing law and because it was by the subjects to dining community
has been viewed.

This dishonorable principle of Caesar was eliminated, but it could not
be overlooked that a lot of failure entirely Buergermeister only
by these meals before starvation had been protected.

In this sense, Caesar held the same notes. Hatte after Sempron, of Cato
wiedererneuerten each order in Rome angesessene Roman citizens legally
entitled to free grain bread, it was this Empfaengerliste which
last up to 320,000 numbers had increased by elimination of all
wealthy or otherwise supplied to 150000 herabgebracht individuals
and this number as the maximum number of free grain bodies once and
for all fixed, while an annual review of the list ordered by the
resignation or death leergewordenen places with the most needy among
the candidates to fill again.

By then the political privilege into an arms supply was converted,
became a moral as in terms of remarkable historical record for the
first time in living efficacy.

Only slowly and from level to level the struggles by civil society on the
solidarity of the interests in the former ancient protects the
state with him well before the country's enemy and the murderer,
but he was not obliged by the administration of the necessary
Subsistenzmittel entirely helpless citizens before the worst enemies
of the defect coverage.

The Attic civilization it has been included in solo after solo niches and
American legislation first developed the principle that it is duty of
the municipality, for their disability, even for their poor care
at all, and first Caesar, which is in the limited constraints of
Attic Living community thing was left to an organic state institution
and an institution, for the State of a burden and a disgrace was
umgeschaffen in the first of that today as innumerable as beneficial
institutions where the infinite human compassion with the endless
human misery struggling .

Apart from these basic reforms was a comprehensive revision of the revenue
and expenditure system instead.

The ordinary revenues were everywhere regulated and fixed.

Not a few communities, even entire landscapes ward, whether indirectly
through the award of the Latin or Roman civil law, either directly by
privilege, the exemption granted, so they received, for example, all
sizilischen ^ 18 municipalities that, the city Ilion in this way. Even
larger was the number of those whose duty was reduced Quantum; how
the municipalities in the Hereafter Spain after Caesar's governorship
on his farm a tax reduction approved by the Senate was, and now the
most depressed province of Asia not just raising taxes to facilitate
its direct but also the third part of the same was adopted throughout.

The newly-added taxes, such as the subject of Illyria, and especially the
Gallic communities, which the latter together Sestertius 40 million (3
million crowns) paid annually, were consistently low plucked. Admittedly,
on the other hand was also individual cities, such as small Leptis
in Africa, Sulci in Sardinia and several Spanish communities, a
punishment of their behavior during the last war, the tax raised.

The very profitable in recent times of anarchy Italic Hafenzoelle
were abolished in order to recover more than they deliver much of
the East met incoming luxury goods.

These newly-reopened or regular sources of income, the amounts added to
ausserordentlicherweise, especially following the Civil War, came
to the victor the spoils collected in Gaul, the metropolitan treasury
stock, from the Italian and Spanish treasures taken from temples,
which forms the borrowing constraint, the constraint of the present
or buses from the communities and Dynastes and the sums collected
in a similar way by saying right or just by sending each of the
order of Roman-imposed penalties, but above all, the proceeds from
the assets of the beaten opponents.

How these rich sources of revenue were to decline it may be that only the
coaches of African wholesalers, who in the Senate sat opposite, to 100
million Sestertius (7 "Mill thalers) and by the purchasers of the
assets of the price paid to Pompey 70 million Sestertius (5300000
Taler) was.

This procedure was necessary because the power of the beaten nobility
to the good part of their colossal wealth rested and only thus
could be effectively broken, that it pay the costs of war was
imposed.

The venom of the confiscations, but this was somewhat mitigated that Caesar
their income solely to the benefit let the state and, instead of
his favorites Sullas way each sub-grinding look, even his most loyal
supporters, for example, by Marcus Antonius, the purchase money
with severity beitrieb. --------------------------------------------------
----------------- ^ 18 The disappearance of the Tenth sizilischen
Varro testifies in a published after Cicero's death Scripture (2
praef rust..) by the provinces of grain from which Rome his subsistence
takes, only Africa and Sardinia, Sicily is no longer called.

The latinity as Sicily received, must be probably the immunity
have included (cf. Roman Law, vol 3, p. 684). --------------------
----------------------------------------------- In the expenditure
was initially by the considerable restriction of the grain reached
a reduction in donations.

The grain retained distributed to the metropolitan and the related arms
of Caesar newly imported oil supplies for the metropolitan bathroom
was at least a large part of all is based on the kind of charges
including Sardinia and Africa, and thus resigned from the funds
being entirely or largely from. the other hand, regular expenditure
for the Militaerwesen, partly through the propagation of the standing
army, and partly by the increase of the previous Loehnung of
legionnaires, a year of 480 (36 crowns) annually on 900 Sestertius
(68 "thalers).

Both were, in fact, indispensable. A serious lack of border defense and
the very sine qua non of that was a good reproduction of the Armed
Forces. The doubling of the Caesar Soldes has probably used to his soldiers
finds in itself to chains, but not for this reason a constant
innovations.

The current pay of 1 1 / 3 Sestertius (2 pennies) the date was fixed in
ancient times, where the money is quite a different value than was
in Rome at the time, the only reason he had to enter into a time
where the common Tageloehner in the capital with his hands work
daily average of 3 Sestertius (5 groschen) earned can be retained,
because in these times, the soldier not the Soldes half, but mainly
because of the largely illicit Akzidentien of military service in
the army arrived.

On a serious reform of the Militaerwesens and to eliminate most of the
burden Provincial soldiers irregular earnings was the first condition is
a more modern increasing formal Loehnung, and the fixation on the same
2 "Sestertius (4 pennies) can be considered a cheap, Aerar by the
large burden load as a necessary and in its consequences to be
blessed.

From the amount of extraordinary expenses, and Caesar had to take
over or voluntarily assumed, it is difficult to make a presentation
to make.

The wars themselves ate enormous amounts, and may not have been
reduced in order to fulfill the assurances, the Caesar during the
civil war had been forced to make.

It was a bad and for the subsequent period is not lost such that
every common soldier for his participation in the civil war 20000
Sestertius (1500 thalers), every citizen of the metropolitan set
for his non-participation on the same bread as a supplement to grain
300 Sestertius (22 Credits) received ; Caesar, however, after he
once wrote in the circumstances pledged his word, Koenig was too
much for them abzudingen.

Also enough Caesar myriad requirements honorable liberality and
made especially for the construction, the funds during the last
period of the Republic had been shamefully neglected, enormous sums
of liquid - it calculated the cost of its parts during the Gallic
campaigns, partly afterwards in the capital exported Buildings
Sestertius of 160 million (12 million crowns).

The overall result of the financial management is Caesar's is
pronounced that he sensible and energetic reforms and through the
right association of liberal economy and all claims plentiful and
cheap enough and yet totally in March 710 (44) in the box office
of the State 700, in his own Sestertius 100 million (collectively,
61 thalers Mill) bar beaten - a sum that the cash in the Republic
in its most prosperous period around ten times over rose.

But the task of old parties be dissolved and the new community with
an appropriate constitution, form a ready army and orderly finances
device, so difficult it was, was not the hardest part of Caesar's
work.

If in fact the Italian nation be born again, so it took a reorganization,
involving all parts of the great empire, Rome, Italy and the
provinces, converting.

Let's try again, both the old state as well as the beginnings of a
new and reasonable time to describe.

For the good of Rome was Latin master nation a long completely
disappeared.

It is in the relationships that the municipal capital of their own
and their national character enables the rapid than any subordinate
communities. Here between the higher classes from the fast urban life
from the common order more in the entire state than in a single city to
find their home here inevitably focuses the foreign settlement, the
fluctuating population of leisure and business travelers, the mass of
idle, lazy, criminal, economically and morally bankrupt and just
about cosmopolitan riffraff.

In Rome, this was done all in excellent application. The wealthy Romans
Stadthaus be considered only as a frequent Absteigequartier. By the
urban Munizipalitaet the Reichsaemter emerged, the urban Vogt thing
the Assembly of the kingdom became citizens of smaller, self-governing
districts or other communities within the capital will not be
tolerated were heard every real local life for Rome.

For the full extent of the empire weitumfassenden is streamed to Rome in
order to speculate on debauchieren to intrigue, to criminals, or even
to train daselbst before the eyes of the law is to hide.

Uebel These were from the metropolitan beings need some way with other,
more random and perhaps more serious joined them. There has perhaps
never been a big city, which so perfectly nahrungslos was like
Rome; some imports, some domestic production by slaves made here
any free Industry priori impossible.

The adverse consequences of the fundamental ills of state formation
in ancient times at all, of the slave system, occurred in the
capital, sharper than anywhere else out.

Nowhere accumulated masses are slaves such as in the palaces of the
great metropolitan families or the rich upstarts.

Nowhere is mixed as slaves in the metropolitan shank world nations three
parts, Syrians, Phryger and other Halbhellenen with Libyans and
Mohren, Geten and Iberians with the more numerous inflowing Celts
and Germans.

The unfreedom unzertrennliche demoralization and scheusslich
contradiction of the formal and the moral law were far from bright
to light the whole or half-educated, like to make the city as slaves
at the farm servant, which the field is equal to the bull shackled
in chains ordered.

Worse than the slaves were the masses of the rights or even just people
actually released, a mixture begging rabble-term and difficult Parvenus
richer, are no longer slaves, and yet totally citizens, economically
and even legally from their Lord, and yet according to the demands
of free men, and just the freedmen withdrew especially after the
capital, where it was earning some kind of retail trade and as the
small craft almost entirely in their hands were.

Their influence on the elections is expressly testified, and that they are
also in the street riots were preceded, already displays the usual signal,
thereby placing them by the demagogues, as announced in the closure
of the stalls and selling clubs.

And the came that the government not only did nothing to this corruption
of the metropolitan population remedy, but even their sake of their selfish
politics feed provided. The circumspect law provision, which because of
the capital crime sentenced individuals stay in the capital,
prohibited, became flaccid by the police is not running.

The police strongly encouraged to monitor the association of the rabble was
initially neglected, as later freiheitswidrige Volksbeschraenkung
even for an offense declared.

The festivals had to grow so that the seven Ordinary alone, the Roman,
the plebeian, the Goettermutter, of Ceres, of Apollo, and flora
and Victoria, together sixty-two days tested, then what the fencers
games and countless other extraordinary merry came.

In such a, well from hand to mouth living inevitable proletariat
care for low grain prices grew by unscrupulous recklessness handled, and
the price fluctuations of grain bread were fabulous and
unpredictable nature ^ 19 Finally, the grain distributions nahrungslose
invited all citizens and work-shy officially a proletariat, its headquarters
in the capital aufzuschlagen.

It was a arge sowing and harvest corresponded to her. The club and the
band being on the political field in which the religious Isisdienst and
similar pious dizziness had their roots here. They were stocks
in the face of inflation and not infrequently in full famine. Nowhere was
it his life is less safe than in the capital: the commercially operated
bandit murder was the only craft of its own, it was the introduction to
the murder, that the battle victims was lured to Rome, no one dared without
armed followers in the neighborhood of the capital.

The outer texture was this same internal disruption and seemed a lively
satire on aristocratic regiment. For the regulation of the Tiber river
was nothing done that you hardly the only bridge that allows you to
keep still, at least up to the Tiber island of stone had to perform. For
the grading of Siebenhuegelstadt was just something to happen, except
where the debris pile approximately balanced had.

The streets were narrow and angular up and down hills, and were
kept miserable, the pavements narrow and poorly paved. The ordinary
houses of bricks were equally dissolute as giddy high built, mostly
by speculating builders account for the small owner, whereby the
very rich, they were beggars.

As individual islands in this sea of miserable buildings appeared shining
palaces for the rich, the small houses as the area narrowed their
owners as the little people their civil rights in the country and
next to their Marmorsaeulen Greek statues and the decaying temple,
with its still largely woodcarved Goetterbildern made a sad figure.

From a road, a bank, fire and Baupolizei was hardly speaking, if the
government every year to the incoming floods, fires and Haeusereinstuerze
be grieved over all, it happened to theologians of the State report
and concerns about the true meaning of such signs and wonders to
covet.

Try a London think with the slave population of New Orleans, with the
police of Constantinople, with the Industrielosigkeit Rome and
today's move from a policy along the lines of the Paris of 1848,
and there is an approximate idea of the Republican win glory whose
downfall Cicero and his comrades in their letters entrust Schmoll.
-------------------------------------- ------------- ^ 19 In the
Country of Roman Sicily was a bushel within a few years to 2 and
20 Sestertius sold one constructed according to the price fluctuations
in Rome had to face, from overseas Korn lived and the headquarters
of the speculators was. -----------------------------------------
---------- Caesar mourned not, but he was looking to help wherever
help was.

Rome of course was what it was, a world city. The attempt to turn a
specifically Italian character that just would not have been
impracticable, but would also in Caesar's plan does not fit.

Similar to Alexander for his Greek-Oriental empire adequate capital in the
Hellenic-Jewish-Egyptian, and especially cosmopolitan Alexandreia
found, they should also at the heart of the Orient and Occident,
the capital of the new Roman-Hellenistic empire not an Italian
community, but the denationalisierte capitals of many nations.

That's why it bore Caesar, that in addition to the new Father Jovis
based Egyptian gods were worshiped, and even allowed the Jews the
freedom to exercise their strange strange ritual in the capital of
the empire.

How disgusting multicolored always parasitic , namely Hellenic-oriental
population is mixed in Rome, he joined them from spreading anywhere in
the way it is significant that when he plays his metropolitan folk
not only in Latin and Greek, but also in other tongues, probably Phoenician,
Hebrew, Syrian, Spanish had to perform. But when Caesar the fundamental
character of the capital as it was with full awareness Accepted,
but he worked so vigorously towards the improvement of daselbst
obwaltenden disgraceful and deplorable conditions.

Unfortunately, just the basic Uebel Least austilgbar . The slavery with
her retinue of country plagues Caesar could not stop and it must remain
an open question, whether it is consistent with the time would have tried,
the slave population in the capital, at least to limit, as he did on
other areas undertook. Nor could Caesar a free metropolitan industry from
the ground to conjure, but helped the huge buildings of Nahrungslosigkeit
daselbst somewhat from the proletariat and opened a source of small but
honest acquisition. On the other hand, Caesar had vigorously pointed out
the mass of the proletariat to reduce free. The inflow of such standing,
the cereal donations to Rome, was by the same transformation into a solid
head on a limited supply arms if not completely clogged ^ 20, but very
much limited. Under the existing proletariat placed one on the courts,
which were instructed to unnachsichtlicher Strict intervene against
the rabble, but the extensive overseas colonization, of the 80,000
settlers who Caesar in the few years of his government over the
sea, a very large part of the lower layers of the metropolitan
population to be taken, because like most Corinthian settlers were
freedman.

That departure from previous policy, the freedmen each urban Ehrenamt
sealed, Caesar them at its colonies, the door of the Town Hall opened,
it happened without a doubt the better of them for emigration to win.
This emigration has also been more than a merely temporary event; Caesar,
convinced as any other reasonable man that the only real help against
the misery of the proletariat in a wohlregulierten Kolonisierungssystem,
and by the nature of the empire in the state that the same in almost
unmeasured extending into reality, will have had the intention,
hereby permanently continue and always return to producing a lasting
Uebel deduction to open. further measures were taken to the wicked
price fluctuations of the main food markets in the metropolitan
setting limits.

The newly-ordered liberal and managed public finances, the funds provided
in this and two newly appointed officials who Getreideaedilen, took
over the supervision of specialized suppliers and the market in the
capital.

The club was being effective, as it was possible Prohibitivgesetze,
controlled by the amended Constitution, using the Republic and the
republican elections, and courts the rape and corruption of the
election judges and colleges all over the political Saturnalia of
Kanaille by itself had an end.

    
    "No one," said Beaton. "It isn't necessary, when you look it--live it."

"Oh, dear! I didn't know I devoted my whole time to the subject."

"I know I'm despicable. I could tell you something--the history of this
day, even--that would make you despise me." Beaton had in mind his
purchase of the overcoat, which Alma was getting in so effectively, with
the money he ought to have sent his father. "But," he went on, darkly,
with a sense that what he was that moment suffering for his selfishness
must somehow be a kind of atonement, which would finally leave him to the
guiltless enjoyment of the overcoat, "you wouldn't believe the depths of
baseness I could descend to."

"I would try," said Alma, rapidly shading the collar, "if you'd give me
some hint."

Beaton had a sudden wish to pour out his remorse to her, but he was
afraid of her laughing at him. He said to himself that this was a very
wholesome fear, and that if he could always have her at hand he should
not make a fool of himself so often. A man conceives of such an office as
the very noblest for a woman; he worships her for it if he is
magnanimous. But Beaton was silent, and Alma put back her head for the
right distance on her sketch. "Mr. Fulkerson thinks you are the sublimest
of human beings for advising him to get Colonel Woodburn to interview Mr.
Dryfoos about Lindau. What have you ever done with your Judas?"

"I haven't done anything with it. Nadel thought he would take hold of it
at one time, but he dropped it again. After all, I don't suppose it could
be popularized. Fulkerson wanted to offer it as a premium to subscribers
for 'Every Other Week,' but I sat down on that."

Alma could not feel the absurdity of this, and she merely said, "'Every
Other Week' seems to be going on just the same as ever."

"Yes, the trouble has all blown over, I believe. Fulkerson," said Beaton,
with a return to what they were saying, "has managed the whole business
very well. But he exaggerates the value of my advice."

"Very likely," Alma suggested, vaguely. "Or, no! Excuse me! He couldn't,
he couldn't!" She laughed delightedly at Beaton's foolish look of
embarrassment.

He tried to recover his dignity in saying, "He's 'a very good fellow, and
he deserves his happiness."

"Oh, indeed!" said Alma, perversely. "Does any one deserve happiness?"

"I know I don't," sighed Beaton.

"You mean you don't get it."

"I certainly don't get it."

"Ah, but that isn't the reason."

"What is?"

"That's the secret of the universe," She bit in her lower lip, and looked
at him with eyes, of gleaming fun.

"Are you never serious?" he asked.

"With serious people always."

"I am serious; and you have the secret of my happiness--" He threw
himself impulsively forward in his chair.

"Oh, pose, pose!" she cried.

"I won't pose," he answered, "and you have got to listen to me. You know
I'm in love with you; and I know that once you cared for me. Can't that
time--won't it--come back again? Try to think so, Alma!"

"No," she said, briefly and seriously enough.

"But that seems impossible. What is it I've done what have you against
me?"

"Nothing. But that time is past. I couldn't recall it if I wished. Why
did you bring it up? You've broken your word. You know I wouldn't have
let you keep coming here if you hadn't promised never to refer to it."

"How could I help it? With that happiness near us--Fulkerson--"

"Oh, it's that? I might have known it!"

"No, it isn't that--it's something far deeper. But if it's nothing you
have against me, what is it, Alma, that keeps you from caring for me now
as you did then? I haven't changed."

"But I have. I shall never care for you again, Mr. Beaton; you might as
well understand it once for all. Don't think it's anything in yourself,
or that I think you unworthy of me. I'm not so self-satisfied as that; I
know very well that I'm not a perfect character, and that I've no claim
on perfection in anybody else. I think women who want that are fools;
they won't get it, and they don't deserve it. But I've learned a good.
deal more about myself than I knew in St. Barnaby, and a life of work, of
art, and of art alone that's what I've made up my mind to."

"A woman that's made up her mind to that has no heart to hinder her!"

"Would a man have that had done so?"

"But I don't believe you, Alma. You're merely laughing at me. And,
besides, with me you needn't give up art. We could work together. You
know how much I admire your talent. I believe I could help it--serve it;
I would be its willing slave, and yours, Heaven knows!"

"I don't want any slave--nor any slavery. I want to be free always. Now
do you see? I don't care for you, and I never could in the old way; but I
should have to care for some one more than I believe I ever shall to give
up my work. Shall we go on?" She looked at her sketch.

"No, we shall not go on," he said, gloomily, as he rose.

"I suppose you blame me," she said, rising too.

"Oh no! I blame no one--or only myself. I threw my chance away."

"I'm glad you see that; and I'm glad you did it. You don't believe me, of
course. Why do men think life can be only the one thing to women? And if
you come to the selfish view, who are the happy women? I'm sure that if
work doesn't fail me, health won't, and happiness won't."

"But you could work on with me--"

"Second fiddle. Do you suppose I shouldn't be woman enough to wish my
work always less and lower than yours? At least I've heart enough for
that!"

"You've heart enough for anything, Alma. I was a fool to say you hadn't."

"I think the women who keep their hearts have an even chance, at least,
of having heart--"

"Ah, there's where you're wrong!"

"But mine isn't mine to give you, anyhow. And now I don't want you ever
to speak to me about this again."

"Oh, there's no danger!" he cried, bitterly. "I shall never willingly see
you again."

"That's as you like, Mr. Beaton. We've had to be very frank, but I don't
see why we shouldn't be friends. Still, we needn't, if you don't like."

"And I may come--I may come here--as--as usual?"

"Why, if you can consistently," she said, with a smile, and she held out
her hand to him.

He went home dazed, and feeling as if it were a bad joke that had been
put upon him. At least the affair went so deep that it estranged the
aspect of his familiar studio. Some of the things in it were not very
familiar; he had spent lately a great deal on rugs, on stuffs, on
Japanese bric-a-brac. When he saw these things in the shops he had felt
that he must have them; that they were necessary to him; and he was
partly in debt for them, still without having sent any of his earnings to
pay his father. As he looked at them now he liked to fancy something
weird and conscious in them as the silent witnesses of a broken life. He
felt about among some of the smaller objects on the mantel for his pipe.
Before he slept he was aware, in the luxury of his despair, of a remote
relief, an escape; and, after all, the understanding he had come to with
Alma was only the explicit formulation of terms long tacit between them.
Beaton would have been puzzled more than he knew if she had taken him
seriously. It was inevitable that he should declare himself in love with
her; but he was not disappointed at her rejection of his love; perhaps
not so much as he would have been at its acceptance, though he tried to
think otherwise, and to give himself airs of tragedy. He did not really
feel that the result was worse than what had gone before, and it left him
free.

But he did not go to the Leightons again for so long a time that Mrs.
Leighton asked Alma what had happened. Alma told her.

"And he won't come any more?" her mother sighed, with reserved censure.

"Oh, I think he will. He couldn't very well come the next night. But he
has the habit of coming, and with Mr. Beaton habit is everything--even
the habit of thinking he's in love with some one."

"Alma," said her mother, "I don't think it's very nice for a girl to let
a young man keep coming to see her after she's refused him."

"Why not, if it amuses him and doesn't hurt the girl?"

"But it does hurt her, Alma. It--it's indelicate. It isn't fair to him;
it gives him hopes."

"Well, mamma, it hasn't happened in the given case yet. If Mr. Beaton
comes again, I won't see him, and you can forbid him the house."

"If I could only feel sure, Alma," said her mother, taking up another
branch of the inquiry, "that you really knew your own mind, I should be
easier about it."

"Then you can rest perfectly quiet, mamma. I do know my own mind; and,
what's worse, I know Mr. Beaton's mind."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that he spoke to me the other night simply because Mr.
Fulkerson's engagement had broken him all up."

"What expressions!" Mrs. Leighton lamented.

"He let it out himself," Alma went on. "And you wouldn't have thought it
was very flattering yourself. When I'm made love to, after this, I prefer
to be made love to in an off-year, when there isn't another engaged
couple anywhere about."

"Did you tell him that, Alma?"

"Tell him that! What do you mean, mamma? I may be indelicate, but I'm not
quite so indelicate as that."

"I didn't mean you were indelicate, really, Alma, but I wanted to warn
you. I think Mr. Beaton was very much in earnest."

"Oh, so did he!"

"And you didn't?"

"Oh yes, for the time being. I suppose he's very much in earnest with
Miss Vance at times, and with Miss Dryfoos at others. Sometimes he's a
painter, and sometimes he's an architect, and sometimes he's a sculptor.
He has too many gifts--too many tastes."

"And if Miss Vance and Miss Dryfoos--"

"Oh, do say Sculpture and Architecture, mamma! It's getting so dreadfully
personal!"

"Alma, you know that I only wish to get at your real feeling in the
matter."

"And you know that I don't want to let you--especially when I haven't got
any real feeling in the matter. But I should think--speaking in the
abstract entirely--that if either of those arts was ever going to be in
earnest about him, it would want his exclusive devotion for a week at
least."

"I didn't know," said Mrs. Leighton, "that he was doing anything now at
the others. I thought he was entirely taken up with his work on 'Every
Other Week.'"

"Oh, he is! he is!"

"And you certainly can't say, my dear, that he hasn't been very
kind--very useful to you, in that matter."

"And so I ought to have said yes out of gratitude? Thank you, mamma! I
didn't know you held me so cheap."

"You know whether I hold you cheap or not, Alma. I don't want you to
cheapen yourself. I don't want you to trifle with any one. I want you to
be honest with yourself."

"Well, come now, mamma! Suppose you begin. I've been perfectly honest
with myself, and I've been honest with Mr. Beaton. I don't care for him,
and I've told him I didn't; so he may be supposed to know it. If he comes
here after this, he'll come as a plain, unostentatious friend of the
family, and it's for you to say whether he shall come in that capacity or
not. I hope you won't trifle with him, and let him get the notion that
he's coming on any other basis."

Mrs. Leighton felt the comfort of the critical attitude far too keenly to
abandon it for anything constructive. She only said, "You know very well,
Alma, that's a matter I can have nothing to do with."

"Then you leave him entirely to me?"

"I hope you will regard his right to candid and open treatment."

"He's had nothing but the most open and candid treatment from me, mamma.
It's you that wants to play fast and loose with him. And, to tell you the
truth, I believe he would like that a good deal better; I believe that,
if there's anything he hates, it's openness and candor." Alma laughed,
and put her arms round her mother, who could not help laughing a little,
too.


II.

The winter did not renew for Christine and Mela the social opportunity
which the spring had offered. After the musicale at Mrs. Horn's, they
both made their party-call, as Mela said, in due season; but they did not
find Mrs. Horn at home, and neither she nor Miss Vance came to see them
after people returned to town in the fall. They tried to believe for a
time that Mrs. Horn had not got their cards; this pretence failed them,
and they fell back upon their pride, or rather Christine's pride. Mela
had little but her good-nature to avail her in any exigency, and if Mrs.
Horn or Miss Vance had come to call after a year of neglect, she would
have received them as amiably as if they had not lost a day in coming.
But Christine had drawn a line beyond which they would not have been
forgiven; and she had planned the words and the behavior with which she
would have punished them if they had appeared then. Neither sister
imagined herself in anywise inferior to them; but Christine was
suspicious, at least, and it was Mela who invented the hypothesis of the
lost cards. As nothing happened to prove or to disprove the fact, she
said, "I move we put Coonrod up to gittun' it out of Miss Vance, at some
of their meetun's."

"If you do," said Christine, "I'll kill you."

She felt the sword over her head float and Caesar knew well, not to
doubt that he, if necessary, it would be safe to do. "From all sides,"
wrote one of them, "we are in check, we have already made fear of death
or the banishment of the 'freedom' does: every sigh, nobody dares
to talk. " More allies could not ask.

But even if the majority of the aristocracy in this mood that was
desirable, so it is naturally absent in this party is no shortage of
hot spurs.

No sooner had Caesar resigned the consulate, as some of the most hotly
aristocrats, Lucius and Gaius Memmius Domitian, in the full Senate lodged,
the July's laws to quash.

It was indeed nothing but a folly that can only benefit the coalition
ausschlug; Caesar because even now insisted that the Senate contested
the validity of laws investigate fans, this was no different than
formally recognize their legality.

Solo understandably were still the rulers of this new call on some
of the most prestigious and vorlautesten opponents statuieren an
example, and thereby to insure that the remaining mass at rationalizing
that sighs and silence insist.

Initially it was hoped that the clause in the law field, which as usual
the oath to the new law of all the senators in case of loss of their
political rights, claimed that the fiercest foes will determine, in
accordance with the process of Metellus Numidicus by the Eidverweigerung
themselves to banish .

With so complaisant proved but not the same, even the strict Cato bequemte
to swear, and his Sancho followed him.

A second little respectable attempt, the heads of the aristocracy because
of an alleged against Pompey spun assassination thriller with Alan actions
and thereby to threaten them into exile to drive, was the inability of
the tools in place, the informer, a certain Vettius, exaggerated and
contradicted itself so arg, and the tribune Vatinius the dirty machine
conducted, showed his agreement with that Vettius so clear that it was
advised, the latter in prison and to strangle the whole thing be dropped.
However, it was on this occasion by the complete dissolution of the
aristocracy and the endless fear of lord is convincing enough, even a man
like Lucius Lucullus had personally thrown feet to Caesar and publicly
declared that his old age he is forced to see reason, resign from
public life. We finally settled down because of a few victims enough.
Mainly, it was necessary to remove Cato, which his conviction of the
nullity of all of July's laws had no secret, and the man was as he thought
to act. One such man was certainly not Marcus Cicero and you did not bother
him to be afraid. The democratic party in the coalition, the first role,
was the judicial murder of the 5th Dec 691 (63), which they so loudly and
with as good had blamed Rights, after her victory impossible unpunished
leave. Would have been the real originator of the disastrous decision
to account, so arrogates you certainly do not hold the schwachmuetigen
Consul, but to the group of strict aristocracy, the frightened man to
execution that had urged. But after formal legal for the same were
not, however, the advisor of the consul, but the consul himself
responsible, and above all it was a milder way, only the Consul to justice
and the Senate out of the college games to be so even in the motives of
the application against Cicero addressed the Senate decision, by virtue
of which ordered the execution of the same, almost as untergeschoben
designated ward. Even Cicero had said against the rulers like sensational
steps avoided; alone the same could not be about winning, not the rulers
of the required guarantees, even under one of several it presented itself
decorous pretexts to banish from Rome, nor even to silent. With the best
will in every impulse to avoid the most sincere and frightened but he
had no stance enough to be careful; arrogates the word out when a
petulanter joke or if it tingles through his praise of so many noble
men almost crazy self-esteem wohlkadenzierten the periods of the
plebeian schwellte advocates. The execution against Cato and Cicero
decided measures which became loose and deserts, but clever and, above
all, brazen Publius Clodius transferred, which for years with Cicero in
the bitterest enmity and lived to satisfy this as a demagogue and a role
to play, at Caesar's consulate by urgent adoption of a patrician into a
plebeian, and then turns for the year 696 (58) had Volkstribun choose
to leave.

As backing for Clodius Caesar the proconsul stayed until the strike
against the two victims had fallen in the immediate vicinity of the
capital. Received contracts in Clodius proposed to the residents before,
Cato with the regulation of the complex Gemeindeverhaeltnisse the
Byzantier and with the recovery of the Kingdom of Kypros on the subject,
which, like Egypt through the testament of Alexander II was the Romans
attacked and not, as Egypt, the Roman bought confiscation whose Koenig
covers periods before Clodius had personally insulted. Concerning
Cicero Clodius brought a bill to which the execution of a citizen
without a legal verdict and as a country with a referral to punish crimes
described. Cato was therefore an honorable mission away, Cicero least
mildly, with the possible penalties, moreover in the application but not
with names. The pleasure but it is not failed, would include a notoriously
timid and the genus of the political weather vanes, one man because of
his proven power to punish, but the dogged opponent of all interventions
by the residents in the administration and all commands extraordinary
decision by residents, even with such a device, and with the same humor
of Cato was concerned with the application motivated abnormal
virtue of this man, what it against any other suitable renders such a
kitzlichen order, such as the confiscation of considerable kyprischen
Kronschatzes was execute without steal. Both requests take over the main
character Deferenz considerate and cool irony of Caesar's behavior
in the Senate against consistently described. On resistance, they do
not. It helped, of course, nothing that Senatsmajoritaet to it in any
way against the mockery and branding its decision in the matter
Catilinarischen to protest, the public mourning garb landed and that
Cicero himself, now that it was too late, when Pompey kniefaellig begged
for mercy he had, even before the law browsed him home sealed herself
ban (April 696 58). Cato had it not equally important to get him through
the rejection of the contract has become tougher measures to provoke,
but took the same, and embarked one to the East. The Next was done,
even Caesar could leave Italy, to more serious tasks to devote 7. Chapter
The subjugation of the West When the wretched monotony of political
selfishness, in the Curia and in the streets of the capital of his battles
beat, the course of history turns again to the things that are more
important than the question of whether the first monarch of Rome Gnaeus,
Marcus Gaius or hot, so it may well be allowed, on the threshold
of an event whose consequences still the fortunes of the world, around
and for a moment to describe the context in which the conquest
of present-day France by the Romans and their first contact with the
residents of Germany and Britain are identifying historical. force of law
that the state developed the nation politically innocents abroad, the
civilized, the innocents abroad mentally neighbors dissolves - by virtue
of this Act that is so universal and so natural law is as the law of
gravity, was the Italian nation, the only of antiquity, the higher
political development and the higher civilization, albeit the latter
only in imperfect and external way to combine has managed power
to the downfall mature Greek states of the East are subject to
review and consider the culture Voelkerschaften lower grade in the
west, Libyans, Iberians, Celts, Germans, by their settlers to crowd
- just like England with the same rights in Asia have equal, but
politically impotent civilization is subjected, in America and
Australia expansive landscapes barbaric with the stamp of his
nationality and called ennobled and yet has continually called and
ennobles.

The prerequisite of this task, the unification of Italy, the Roman
aristocracy had accomplished the task itself, it has not solved,
but the conquests ausseritalischen only as either a necessary evil
or even as a quasi outside the state-owned pension are considered.

It is the eternal glory of the Roman democracy or monarchy - because both
fall together - the highest that they correctly understood and has
achieved strong. What the irresistible power of the ratio against his
will the foundations of the future Roman rule in the West as in
East firmly contributing Senate had prepared, which then emigrate
into the Roman provinces, while the plague came as a country, but
in the Western landscapes but also as Pioneering a higher culture,
instinktmaessig betrieb, is what the creator of the Roman democracy
Gaius Gracchus with statesmanlike clarity and safety records and
carry begun.

The two basic ideas of the new policy: the power of Rome area, where
it was Hellenic, to réunies, where it is not Hellenic was to colonize,
was the confiscation of Attal Empire, with the conquests of the
transalpinischen Flaccus already in the time gracchischen practically
been recognized , but the prevailing response, she again wither.

The Roman state was a desert countries without intensive mass occupation
without due limits, Spain and the Greek-Asian possessions were marked
by wide, barely in their Kuestensaeumen the Romans untertaenige areas of
the divorced mother country, on the African only the areas north of
Carthage and Cyrene island-like occupation, even by the great distances
untertaenigen territory, notably in Spain, the Roman in name only
subject from the Government but was done for the concentration and
the rounding rule, but nothing worse, and the decline of the fleet
seemed to finally be the last tie between the outlying possessions
to be solved.

Well tried to democracy, as they only raised their heads again, even the
outer policy in a spirit of Gracchus to shape how we named Marius with
such ideas are contributed, but because they are not on the duration
of your helm came, it remained in draft.

Only after the overthrow of the Constitution Sullanischen in the
year 684 (70) democracy really the regiment participated in the
hand, was also in this respect, a shift one.

Above all, it was the rule on the Mediterranean is restored, the first
question for life as a statesman of the Roman was.

Against East was further supported by the recovery of the Pontic and Syrian
backed Euphratgrenze the landscapes. But still, it was left beyond
the Alps, while the Roman territory to the north and west, and in the
Hellenistic civilization that is still far from broken power of the
Italic tribe here a new virgin soil to win. This task has itself
undergone Gaius Caesar.

It is more than a mistake, it is a sacrilege against the powerful
in the history of the Holy Spirit when Gaul only regarded as the parade
ground, where Caesar and his legions of the impending civil war practiced.
While the subjugation of the West for Caesar, therefore, a means
to an end was when he was in his later wars transalpinischen position
of power is justified, it is precisely the privilege of Genius
statesmanship that his own re-appropriation purposes. Caesar had probably
his party for the purpose of a military power; Gaul but he has not won as
a party man. It was first for Rome, a political necessity, the eternal
threat of invasion by the Germans already beyond the Alps to
meet and then a dam to be drawn to the Roman world peace secured. But
this important purpose was not the highest and last, so Gaul was conquered
by Caesar. When the Roman residents the old home had become too tight and
she was in danger of atrophy, rescued the Italian conquest policy of the
Senate from the same downfall. Play was also the Italian home again too
small; siechte again in the same state of the same type, only in size
ratio repetitive social maladministration. It was a brilliant idea, a
great hope, which Caesar over the Alps, namely the idea and the confidence
that his fellow citizens to a new, limitless home to win the state
and the second is to regenerate it on a broader basis in ward . somehow
is the subjugation of the Western companies have targeted the campaign
is expected to Caesar in the year 693 (61) Spain undertook the Hereafter.
How Spain also have the Romans obeyed, still was even after the expedition
of Decimus Brutus against Callaeker the western shores by the Romans
remained essentially independent and the north of them did not enter
in, and the Raubzuege, which with the passage of untertaenigen landscapes
are continually exposed to saw, did the civilization of Spain and Romanization
no small item. Directed against Caesars train up on the West Coast. He
gradually over the Tagus north Hermione limiting chain of mountains
(Sierra de Estrella), after inviting the same people over and partially
in the plane uebergesiedelt had subjugated the landscape on both sides
of the Duero and came to the northwestern tip of the peninsula, where he
worked with the help of a flotilla of Gades herbeigezogenen Brigantium
(Coru ¤ a) source. This made the residents of the Atlantic Ocean, and
Lusitanian Callaeker recognizing the Roman supremacy forced during
the overcomers at the same time point was considered, by the reduction
to Rome to pay tribute and regulating the economic conditions of
communities, the situation of the subjects over all reasonable way. But
even if this military and administrative debut of the great commander
and statesman same managerial talent and the same thoughts durchschimmern,
which he later proved to bigger venues, it was but its efficacy in
the Iberian Peninsula much to temporarily to intervene far more
so than for their physical and peculiar national circumstances only
a longer period of time consistent with continued activity here a
lasting effect comments.

An important role in the development of the Roman West was the landscape
determines which of the Pyrenees and the Rhine, the Mediterranean
and the Atlantic Ocean spreads and the time since the Augustinian Celts
the name of the country, Gaul, preferably liable although strictly speaking
the Celtic land is sometimes close, sometimes extends much further
and that a national landscape never before Augustus, and not a political
unit formed. It is not just a matter of light, from the very disparate
states, the Caesar on his arrival daselbst in the year 696 (58) that
interrupts a clear picture to develop. In the landscape at the Mediterranean
Sea, about which, in the west of the Rhone Languedoc in the east
and Provence Dauphine comprehensive, sixty years since the Roman
province was kimbrischen had since the storm, including about hingebraust
it was the Roman arms rarely rested. 664 (90) was Gaius Caelius with
Salyer at Aquae Sextiae, 674 (80) Gaius Flaccus on the march in Spain
with other Celtic Gauen fought.

As the war in Sertorianischen governor Lucius Manlius, forced his
colleagues across the Pyrenees to rush to their aid, beaten by Ilerda
(Lerida) came back and on the way home from the western neighbors of the
Roman Province, the Aquitaine, the second was defeated (by 676
78), this seems to be a general uprising of the Provincial between
the Pyrenees and the Rhone, perhaps even those between the Rhone
and the Alps to have caused.

Pompey had to be disgusted by the Gaul his way to Spain with the sword and
gave bahnen punishment for the outrage the brands of the Volker-Arekomiker
and Helvier (Gard and Ardeche) Massalioten the ownership, the
governor Manius Fonteius (678-680 76-74) led these orders and put the
rest in the province restored by the Vocontier (Department Drome)
niederwarf, Massalia protects against the insurgents and the Roman capital
Narbo which they berannten again liberated. The despair, however, and the
economic disruption that affected the Spanish war and about all the
official and the unofficial extortion Roemer on the Gallic possessions
brought the same do not let come to rest and named by Narbo
farthest ALLOBROGES of Canton was in constant fermentation of the
"Peace Foundation", which Gaius Piso in 688 (66) carried, and the
behavior of the ALLOBROGES legation in Rome on the occasion of the
Anarchistenkomplotts 691 (63) testimony and soon afterwards (693
61) erupted into open rebellion.

Catugnatus, the leader of the ALLOBROGES in this war of despair, was,
after he initially not unhappy ment under in Solonium after notable
opposition from the governor Gaius Pomptinus overcome. Despite all
this, the Kaempfe border. of the Roman area is not significantly advanced;
Lugudunum Convenarum, where the ruins of Pompey Sertorianischen army
was located, Tolosa, Vienna and Genava were still the extreme Roman
settlements to the west and north. This, however, was the
importance of this Gallic possessions for the mother country stocks
in climbing, the beautiful, the related Italic climate, favorable
Bodenverhaeltnisse the trade so beneficial to the large and rich,
with its hinterland to Britain after reaching purchase roads, convenient
land and sea with the home quickly gave the southern chain of the
country an economic importance for Italy, the much older properties, such
as Spanish, in the centuries had not been reached, and, like the
politically shipwrecked Romans at this time preferably in a
Zufluchtsstaette searched Massalia and Italic Education Italic again
as luxury, it withdrew the voluntary emigrants from Italy more and
more of the Rhone and the Garonne.

"The province of Gaul," called it in a ten years before Caesar's arrival
designed portrayal, "is full of merchants, and teeming with Roman
citizens. No Gaul does a business without the mediation of a Roemers; every
penny of Gaul from a single source in the other comes, goes
through the Rechnungsbuecher the Roman citizens. " From the same description,
it is clear that also in Gaul, except the Roman colonists of Narbo farmers
and herdsmen in large numbers are staying, which was not to be ignored
is that most of the Roman province owned land, just as in earlier times
the largest part the British possessions in North America, in the hands
of the high and noble living in Italy was, and those farmers and
herdsmen to the largest part of their managers, slaves or freedmen
existed.

It is understandable that under such circumstances, the civilization and
the Romanization of the natives quickly to hand. The Celts loved
farming is not their new masters, but forced them to the sword
with the plow to confuse, and it is really to believe that the
fierce resistance of the ALLOBROGES in part precisely through such
orders was caused.

Why should not he do that?
No one else cared for him; and at a year's end, probably, one woman would
be like another as far as the love was concerned, and probably he should
not be more tired if the woman were Christine Dryfoos than if she were
Margaret Vance. He kept Alma Leighton out of the question, because at the
bottom of his heart he believed that she must be forever unlike every
other woman to him.

The tide of his confused and aimless reverie had carried him far
down-town, he thought; but when he looked up from it to see where he was
he found himself on Sixth Avenue, only a little below Thirty-ninth
Street, very hot and blown; that idiotic fur overcoat was stifling. He
could not possibly walk down to Eleventh; he did not want to walk even to
the Elevated station at Thirty-fourth; he stopped at the corner to wait
for a surface-car, and fell again into his bitter fancies. After a while
he roused himself and looked up the track, but there was no car coming.
He found himself beside a policeman, who was lazily swinging his club by
its thong from his wrist.

"When do you suppose a car will be along?" he asked, rather in a general
sarcasm of the absence of the cars than in any special belief that the
policeman could tell him.

The policeman waited to discharge his tobacco-juice into the gutter. "In
about a week," he said, nonchalantly.

"What's the matter?" asked Beaton, wondering what the joke could be.

"Strike," said the policeman. His interest in Beaton's ignorance seemed
to overcome his contempt of it. "Knocked off everywhere this morning
except Third Avenue and one or two cross-town lines." IX: "There is no
question that always ensuring continued his honesty, _como the crane, the
stone of love of God raised from the suelo_ ....»] [Note 404: _Parecer_,
meaning, rather than _ver, notar_ or _advertir_.] [Note 405: _Grosura_,
in a sense not recorded in the lexicon of the academy, is, like
Covarrubias said, "internal and Estremo of animals, namely conuiene,
fit, feet and hands, and offal."

Under conditions that were required for the meat in the village and
court of Madrid, the year of 1624, there is a reference to waste,
says (Book of Government of the Board of Mayors, tomo XIV, fol.
732) "With a condition that is not required to give sheep offal,
which is heads and bellies and offal, Saturdays of each week are
_de grossura_ over as only the King and our Lord and Reyna Mr ynfante
and gentlemen Council Real ....»]

[Note 406: Bonilla says "that was recommended as remedies for her
[the opilación] _comer barro_ ....»

I do not know where that species could benefit, even though the
_comer barro_ causing this disease.

Zabaleta, in _The holiday by tarde_, chapter on _The estrado_: "This
time Apéanse vn car in front of the house muger largest NPV, which
has a husband in vn government in the Indies, and theirs daughter
VNA donzella _opilada_, so no color as if there viuiera.

No one will judge that left the car for the visit, but to the grave.
_Comía_ This _barro_ girl, pretty sweet. ¿Quanto would be buried by
this moça, having their mouths full of earth? God did this muger mud,
and it will undo the mud. "Quevedo, his muse VI, is a sonnet addressed _A
Amarilia that Bucar had some pieces in the mouth, and was very out
of comerlos_. ] [Note 407: _Tomar the acero_, as the _Diccionario_
authorities, was to remedy that is given to those opilados, consisting
of steel, prepared in various ways. "] [Note 408: Called _Minotauro_
classical mythology the monster born of the union of Pasiphae, wife
of Minos, with a bull.

According to Apollodorus, Higinio and others, had the body of man
and bull head. Matola Theseus in the famous labyrinth of Crete.] [Note
409: _Chisme_, female, I like trance, where he was note (23, 4) [88].]
[Note 410: _Baraja_, meaning _contienda_ or _reyería_ , where he said
_barajar_ 'quarrel, dispute or contend with each other. "] [Note
411: In the edition prince, by mere mistake, who copied Mr.

Bonilla, _coredores_.]

[Note 412: Sabidísimo is that this ass was not _de oro_, although
the book is well known that it is something that seems to have
forgotten to do so Velez de Guevara, by name, the beast rich Croesus.]

[Note 413: _Velicómen_ word that greatly intrigued to Mr.

Bonilla in his first edition of _The Devil Cojuelo_, and before that had
used Quevedo Vélez in _The Time todos_ means _copa_ or glass of German
_Wilkommenbecher_. Not everyone had forgotten the text of Mr de la Torre
de Juan Abad: Master caviar, after dinner with some friends, like
others who came to ask what they did, replied: "Because the abdomens
filled, raise the _velicómenes._" ] [Note 414: _Selvajes_, today,
less etymologically say _salvajes_.]

[Note 415: _Correspondientes_, said what we now call _corresponsales_.
Castillo Solórzano, _The Garduña of Seville and the hook bolsas_, chap.
IV: "Marquina had taken on a debt to a _correspondiente_ his which had
gone bankrupt, an estate outside the city ....»] [Note 416: Among
the various shoe brands that used to slaves in the XVI and XVII,
was the most frequent one of S and a nail to indicate _esclavo_.

Gestoso, in his interesting article on _The sale of slaves in
Sevilla_, apud _Curiosidades old sevillanas_ (Seville, 1910), pp. 83 and
following, review documents that there are some references to this mark.
Suggest one: in the will of Pedro Garcia Quesada (9 March 1520) mentions'
vn esclabo Moorish cape of hedad of ten and fifteen years seys
tool in the face, cheek to VNA _S_ vn and vn another nail, which
abrahem Dize ....»

News began to come of fighting between the police and the strikers when
the roads tried to move their cars with men imported from Philadelphia,
and then Fulkerson rejoiced at the splendid courage of the police. At the
same time, he believed what the strikers said, and that the trouble was
not made by them, but by gangs of roughs acting without their approval.
In this juncture he was relieved by the arrival of the State Board of
Arbitration, which took up its quarters, with a great many scare-heads,
at one of the principal hotels, and invited the roads and the strikers to
lay the matter in dispute before them; he said that now we should see the
working of the greatest piece of social machinery in modern times. But it
appeared to work only in the alacrity of the strikers to submit their
grievance. The road; were as one road in declaring that there was nothing
to arbitrate, and that they were merely asserting their right to manage
their own affairs in their own way. One of the presidents was reported to
have told a member of the Board, who personally summoned him, to get out
and to go about his business. Then, to Fulkerson's extreme
disappointment, the august tribunal, acting on behalf of the sovereign
people in the interest of peace, declared itself powerless, and got out,
and would, no doubt, have gone about its business if it had had any.
Fulkerson did not know what to say, perhaps because the extras did not;
but March laughed at this result.

"It's a good deal like the military manoeuvre of the King of France and
his forty thousand men. I suppose somebody told him at the top of the
hill that there was nothing to arbitrate, and to get out and go about his
business, and that was the reason he marched down after he had marched up
with all that ceremony. What amuses me is to find that in an affair of
this kind the roads have rights and the strikers have rights, but the
public has no rights at all. The roads and the strikers are allowed to
fight out a private war in our midst as thoroughly and precisely a
private war as any we despise the Middle Ages for having tolerated--as
any street war in Florence or Verona--and to fight it out at our pains
and expense, and we stand by like sheep and wait till they get tired.
It's a funny attitude for a city of fifteen hundred thousand
inhabitants."

"What would you do?" asked Fulkerson, a good deal daunted by this view of
the case.

"Do? Nothing. Hasn't the State Board of Arbitration declared itself
powerless? We have no hold upon the strikers; and we're so used to being
snubbed and disobliged by common carriers that we have forgotten our hold
on the roads and always allow them to manage their own affairs in their
own way, quite as if we had nothing to do with them and they owed us no
services in return for their privileges."

"That's a good deal so," said Fulkerson, disordering his hair. "Well,
it's nuts for the colonel nowadays. He says if he was boss of this town
he would seize the roads on behalf of the people, and man 'em with
policemen, and run 'em till the managers had come to terms with the
strikers; and he'd do that every time there was a strike."

"Doesn't that rather savor of the paternalism he condemned in Lindau?"
asked March.

"I don't know. It savors of horse sense."

"You are pretty far gone, Fulkerson. I thought you were the most engaged
man I ever saw; but I guess you're more father-in-lawed. And before
you're married, too."

"Well, the colonel's a glorious old fellow, March. I wish he had the
power to do that thing, just for the fun of looking on while he waltzed
in. He's on the keen jump from morning till night, and he's up late and
early to see the row. I'm afraid he'll get shot at some of the fights; he
sees them all; I can't get any show at them: haven't seen a brickbat
shied or a club swung yet. Have you?"

"No, I find I can philosophize the situation about as well from the
papers, and that's what I really want to do, I suppose. Besides, I'm
solemnly pledged by Mrs. March not to go near any sort of crowd, under
penalty of having her bring the children and go with me. Her theory is
that we must all die together; the children haven't been at school since
the strike began. There's no precaution that Mrs. March hasn't used. She
watches me whenever I go out, and sees that I start straight for this
office."

Fulkerson laughed and said: "Well, it's probably the only thing that's
saved your life. Have you seen anything of Beaton lately?"

"No. You don't mean to say he's killed!"

"Not if he knows it. But I don't know--What do you say, March? What's the
reason you couldn't get us up a paper on the strike?"

"I knew it would fetch round to 'Every Other Week,' somehow."

"No, but seriously. There 'll be plenty of news paper accounts. But you
could treat it in the historical spirit--like something that happened
several centuries ago; De Foe's Plague of London style. Very soon he was
so far that enemies and friends, both him uncomfortable, seinetwegen
could do whatever they want, after Caesar's departure from Rome dominated
the coalition most likely be the fate of the world, but not the streets
of the capital. Even the Senate, which yes is still a kind of nominal
Regiment condition, let things go in the capital as they could
go and liked, partly because of the coalition group that dominated the
corporate rulers of the instructions were missing, in part, because
the resentment of opposition from indifferent or pessimism aside
occurred, but mainly because the whole body hochadlige their complete
impotence where not to understand, but began to feel.

Currently, therefore, there was nowhere in Rome a resistance force of
any government, no real authority.

They lived in the interregnum between the aristocratic and smashed the
expectant military regiment, and when the Roman community like no
other old or new all time various political functions and organizations
inside and out normally, so it also appears in the political
disorganization, anarchy, in a non-enviable sharpness.

It is a strange coincidence that in the same years in which Caesar
beyond the Alps, a work created for eternity, in Rome, one of the
greatest political grotesques listed was that ever on the boards
of world history is gone.

The new Regent of the community governed not, but joined in his
house and maulte quiet. The former semi remote government reigned
if not equal, but sighed, and soon one in confidential circles of
the villas, and soon in the Curia in the choir.

The part of the residents, the freedom and order were still at
heart, was the wild goings uebersatt, but totally clueless guide
and he remained in passivity and void not only avoided any political
activity, but as far as were concerned, the political Sodom itself
By contrast, the rabble of all kinds have never had better days,
had never been funnier Tummelplaetze.

The large number of young men was legion. The demagoguery was totally
to the craft, the craft because the stuff is not lacking: the verschabte
coat of feral beard langflatternde the hair, the deep bass voice, and
not infrequently it was a craft with a golden bottom.

For the following were examined Bruellaktionen gargling of the
theater staff a coveted ^ Article 1, Greeks and Jews, freedman and
slaves were in the public meetings, the regular visitors and the
loudest Schreier, even if it went to vote, there was often only the
smaller part of voting ends constitutional right to vote from
citizens.

"Soon", stated in a letter from this time, "we can expect that our
Freilassungssteuer abvotieren the lackeys."

The actual powers of the day were closed and armed gangs, which carry
adventurers from fechtgewohnten slave rags and set battalions of
anarchy.

Its proprietor was out of the box mostly for the Popular Party
counted, but since Caesar's removal, the only democracy to impress
and to steer them alone understood, it was all from the same
discipline Parteigaenger everyone escaped and made his own policy
at hand.

Preferably challenged these people, also now under the Panier of
freedom, but strictly speaking, they were neither democratic nor
anti-minded, but wrote to the flag once indispensable, as it fell,
and soon the people's names, and soon the name of the Senate or
that of a Party leaders, such as, for example, because Clodius
successively for the ruling democracy, for the Senate and for Crassus
ment under or has accepted to fight.

Color Bandenfuehrer thought the only insofar as their personal enemies,
as the Cicero Clodius, Milo the Clodius, relentlessly pursued, while
the party as they move only in feuds such persons served. You might as
well use a Charivari notes on set as the history of this political
Hexensabbaths want to write, there is also nothing to all the
killings, Haeuserbelagerungen, arson and other Raeuberszenen in the
midst of a cosmopolitan city of design and enumerate how many times
the scale of hissing and shouting at Anspeien and low kicking and
from there to throw stones and through ward Schwerterzuecken.

The protagonist in this political theater was rags that Publius Clodius,
whose like was already mentioned, those in power against Cato and
Cicero served.

Left to themselves, drive this powerful, talented, aggressive and in his
profession, in fact, defective design Parteigaenger during his Volkstribunats
(696 58) ultra-democratic politics, gave the cities of the grain free,
restricts the right of the censors, immoral citizens bemaekeln, prohibited
the officials, religious formalities through the course of
Komitialmaschine to inhibit, eliminate the barriers which shortly
before (690 64) to the tape being to control the right of association
lower classes have been extended, and then repealed, the "street
clubs" (collegia compitalicia ) restores what was nothing more than
a formal, according to the streets and almost separate structured
military organization of the entire metropolitan Free or slave
proletariat.

If in addition the further law that Clodius had already drafted and as
praetor 702 (52) involved imaginary, the freedmen and the actual
possession of the freedom of slaves living the same political rights
with the Free was born, so was the originator of all these brave Constitution
improvements completed his work for and explain a new Numa of freedom and
equality, the capital of the rabble sweet invite in which one of his most
Brandstätter Palatine temple built by him of his freedom to celebrate the
recent democratic millennium to celebrate the High Mass to be seen. Of
course this included the freedom aspirations Schacher with
Buergerschaftsbeschluessen be carried out, as Caesar was also Caesars
monkey for his contemporaries and fellow governors and other items
Poestchen, for kings and cities untertaenigen the glory of the State
rights for sale. ----------- ------------------------------------- ^ 1
That means Cantorum convicio contiones celebrate (Cic. Sest. 55, 118).
--------------------------------------------- --- All of these things
looked to Pompey, not the rain. If he does not feel like he so badly
compromised, then felt it his opponent. Clodius was so brash that he has
a very indifferent question of return of the captured Armenian
princes, the rulers of Rome almost anband, and soon became the dispute to
formal feud, in which Pompey 'totally helpless came to light. The head of
the state knew the Parteigaenger nothing else than to deal with his own,
only more clumsy guided weapons. Was it because of Clodius of the Armenian
princes have been harassed, so angered him again by the hated everything
about Clodius, Cicero redeemed from the exile into which he had sent
Clodius, and reached because its purpose so thoroughly, that he
opponents in an implacable enemy transformed. If Clodius with his bands
made the streets unsafe, so let the winning captain also slaves and
fencers march, in which naturally Balgereien General demagogues against
the shorter moved to the street beat, and of Clodius and his Spies Gesellen
Gaius Cato in his garden stocks in almost siege was held. It is not the
least strange train in this strange spectacle, that in their rag of the
Regent and the swindler both vying for the favor of the toppled
government buhlten, Pompey, in part, to the Senate likes to be
allowed Zurueckberufung Cicero, Clodius on the other hand, the
July's laws are declared null and void and Marcus Bibulus called
unconstitutional the public to witness what may!

A positive result could follow naturally from this Brodel dimmer passions
not show, the actual character that was just horrible to his ridiculous
futility. Even a man of Caesar's genius, it must know that the democratic
drift was completely worn out and even the way to the throne no
longer went through the demagoguery.

It was nothing more than a historical stopgaps if now, in the interregnum
between republic and monarchy, with some great companion of the
prophet mantle and crew, which Caesar himself aside, once and again
staffierte Gaius Gracchus' great ideals parodisch distorted on the
scene were the so-called party of the democratic agitation of the
party, was so little one, that their decision later in the fight
not even a role zufiel.

Even I can not say that this anarchic state of the desire for a strong,
founded on Militaermacht government in the minds of politically-minded
indifference to life had been stimulated.

Even apart from the fact that these residents mostly neutral outside
Rome, and so was looking for from the metropolitan Krawallieren was
not directly touched, as were those minds that are by such motives
could be determined already by earlier experiences, including
conspiracy Catilinarische, thoroughly converted to Autoritaetsprinzip
been on the actual impact Aengsterlinge but the fear of subversion
of the Constitution inseparable, tremendous crisis is far more
emphatically than the fear of the mere continuation of the basically
very superficial metropolitan anarchy.

The only result of that, historically in the attack, is the embarrassing
position in which Pompey by the attacks of Clodianer fell and by his
further steps were essential mitbedingt. How little Pompey's initiative
also loved and understood, as he promised but this by the change in its
position both Clodius as Caesar gegenueber forced from his previous
passivity step outside. The sullen and disgraceful situation into which
he puts Clodius had had on the length of his own sluggish nature to
inflame hatred and anger. But far more important was the transformation
in his relationship with Caesar took place. If the two allied leaders
over Pompey in the activity had become completely bankrupt, so
Caesar had his competence to do something know what each calculation,
like any fear left far behind.

Without much because of the Type of permit, Caesar had by digging in his
largely inhabited by Roman citizens southern province doubled his
army, had with this, instead of northern Italy from Rome on guard
to keep the Alps exceeded, a new beginning in kimbrische invasion
and suffocates within two years (696, 697 58, 57) the Roman arms
to the Rhine and into the channel.

Such facts were against even the most aristocratic of the tactics
and ignoring Verkleinerns from the breath.

The often mocked as Zaertling was now the idol of the army, the celebrated
hero sieggekroente whose young laurels to wither ueberglaenzten of
Pompey and the Senate even after the usual happy Ehrenbezeigungen campaigns
have 697 (57) in mass awarded than they ever Pompey had come. Pompey
stood on his former aide, just as under-Gabin Manil laws that had
stood against him.

Caesar was now the hero of the day and the Lord of the mighty Roman
army, a formerly famous Pompey Exgeneral.

Although it was between father and son still do not have collision and
the ratio of external untarnished, but any political Buendnis is
internally dissolved if the parties Machtverhaeltnis significantly
shifts.

When the quarrel with Clodius was only annoying, it was the changing
status of Caesar for Pompey a very serious danger: ebenwie once
Caesar and his allies against him, so he was now forced, against
Caesar a military backing to seek and its proud Amtlosigkeit
beiseitelegend, to perform as a candidate for any special office
which he continued in the state, the governor of Gaul, both with
equal and perhaps with superior power to the site to remain.

Like its location, was also his tactics exactly the Caesar's during the
war Mithradatischen . To Militaermacht the superior, but still distant
opponent by obtaining a similar command aufzuwiegen took Pompey
first official government machinery.

A year and a half earlier, this necessarily available to him. The rulers
of the Senate was dominated by both the Komitien to them as the lords of
the road strictly obeyed, as indicated by the vigor of Caesar
terrorized Senate, as representatives of the coalition in Rome and
recognized as the principal would have Pompey by the Senate as
required by the residents without each resolution obtained doubt
that he wished, even if he was against the interests of Caesar.

Solo by the clumsy trade with Clodius had Pompey taking important rule the
street and could not remember a request in his favor at the People's
Commune enforce. Not quite so bad were things for him in the Senate,
but it was also doubtful whether Pompey after this long and disastrous
passivity the reins of the majority still tight enough to hold had to
make a decision, as he needed to bring . The position of the Senate,
or rather the nobility at all, was now become another.

Just from her complete humiliation they drew fresh forces.

It was when the coalition of 694 (60) verschiedenes the day came for which
the sunlight was still far from ripe. The distance between Cato and
Cicero, which public opinion, how much those in power to be
withheld and even the mine gave them to complain with ungeirrtem to beat
back their true authorship, and the Verschwaegerung between Caesar
and Pompey remembered with clarity unpleasant monarchic to expulsion
decrees and family alliances.

Also the bigger the audience, which was also political events, was
always careful about the bases of certain prominent future monarchy.

From the moment the notion that Caesar is not a modification of the
Republican Constitution to do, but that it is acting to be or not
to the Republic, are infallible a lot of the best men that were previously
on the Popular Party and expected Caesar in her head was venerated on
the opposite side to be converted. No longer in the salons and the
Landhaeusern of the ruling aristocracy alone were the speeches of the
"three Dynastes", the "three headed monster" heard.

Caesar's consular speeches the crowd listened crowded without acclamation
or applause from her yell, no hands clapping to the stirred, when
the democratic consul in the theater came. But you whistled, where
one of the tools of the rulers to see made public, and even set men clapped
when an actor antimonarchische a sentence or an allusion to Pompey
submitted. Yes as Cicero should be recognized, provided a large number -
supposedly twenty thousand - citizens, mostly from the middle classes,
following the example of the Senate in the mourning garb. "Nothing is now
popular," reads a letter from this period, "as the hatred of the
Popular Party."

The rulers could fall intimations that such opposition, the Knights easily
Sonderplaetze in their new theater, the common man's bread grain losses
could; you took it with the manifestations of the reluctance is
perhaps a little more in eight, but the sentiment remained the same.

With success was better leverage the value of material interests. Caesars
Gold flowed. Certificate of Finance with dysfunctional, influential, in
money-conscious embarrassment ladies, indebted young noblemen,
merchants and bankers beleaguered either went into Gaul, to get to
the source of rest, or turned to Caesar metropolitan agents, and
not easily became an outwardly decent man - with a rabble avoided
losing Caesar is severely limited - there or here rejected.

These were huge buildings, the Caesar of his account in the capital,
execute left and where a myriad of people of all stalls from consular
Lasttraeger down until there was an opportunity to earn, and the
immeasurable, for public merry sums incurred.

Limited Pompey did the same, he owed the city's first stone theater, and
he celebrated his inauguration with a splendor never before seen.

That such donations a lot of opposition-minded, especially in the capital,
with the new order of things, to a certain extent aussoehnten,
is equally obvious that as the core of the system of corruption that
the opposition could have been achieved. Always clearly came to light it
how deep the existing constitution the people root beaten and how little
was named to the immediate parties are drifting further circles,
especially the Landstaedte, the monarchy is tilted or even were they
to be made about it.
It's
we--people like me, of my class--who make the poor betray one another.
But this dreadful fighting--this hideous paper is full of it!" She held
up an extra, crumpled with her nervous reading. "Can't something be done
to stop it? Don't you think that if some one went among them, and tried
to make them see how perfectly hopeless it was to resist the companies
and drive off the new men, he might do some good? I have wanted to go and
try; but I am a woman, and I mustn't! I shouldn't be afraid of the
strikers, but I'm afraid of what people would say!" Conrad kept pressing
his handkerchief to the cut in his temple, which he thought might be
bleeding, and now she noticed this. "Are you hurt, Mr. Dryfoos? You look
so pale."

"No, it's nothing--a little scratch I've got."

"Indeed, you look pale. Have you a carriage? How will you get home? Will
you get in here with me and let me drive you?"

"No, no," said Conrad, smiling at her excitement. "I'm perfectly well--"

"And you don't think I'm foolish and wicked for stopping you here and
talking in this way? But I know you feel as I do!"

"Yes, I feel as you do. You are right--right in every way--I mustn't keep
you--Good-bye." He stepped back to bow, but she put her beautiful hand
out of the window, and when he took it she wrung his hand hard.

"Thank you, thank you! You are good and you are just! But no one can do
anything. It's useless!"

The type of irreproachable coachman on the box whose respectability had
suffered through the strange behavior of his mistress in this interview
drove quickly off at her signal, and Conrad stood a moment looking after
the carriage. His heart was full of joy; it leaped; he thought it would
burst. As he turned to walk away it seemed to him as if he mounted upon
the air. The trust she had shown him, the praise she had given him, that
crush of the hand: he hoped nothing, he formed no idea from it, but it
all filled him with love that cast out the pain and shame he had been
suffering. He believed that he could never be unhappy any more; the
hardness that was in his mind toward his father went out of it; he saw
how sorely he had tried him; he grieved that he had done it, but the
means, the difference of his feeling about the cause of their quarrel, he
was solemnly glad of that since she shared it. He was only sorry for his
father. "Poor father!" he said under his breath as he went along. He
explained to her about his father in his reverie, and she pitied his
father, too.

He was walking over toward the West Side, aimlessly at first, and then at
times with the longing to do something to save those mistaken men from
themselves forming itself into a purpose. Was not that what she meant
when she bewailed her woman's helplessness? She must have wished him to
try if he, being a man, could not do something; or if she did not, still
he would try, and if she heard of it she would recall what she had said
and would be glad he had understood her so. Thinking of her pleasure in
what he was going to do, he forgot almost what it was; but when he came
to a street-car track he remembered it, and looked up and down to see if
there were any turbulent gathering of men whom he might mingle with and
help to keep from violence. He saw none anywhere; and then suddenly, as
if at the same moment, for in his exalted mood all events had a
dream-like simultaneity, he stood at the corner of an avenue, and in the
middle of it, a little way off, was a street-car, and around the car a
tumult of shouting, cursing, struggling men. (Without a word au talking
is aimed at the lady and takes a package with letters from the folds of
her dress breast. For a moment she feels tried it in his face to throw,
but their good education prevents them from her heart to nasty way to make
air. They presented it to him politely and just turns his head from it.
At the moment when he takes it, hurries them to the opposite side
of the room, covered her face with his hands and continues by focusing
umwendet and the face of the chair zukehrt.) (Napoleon in the
papers grazing:) Ah, it's right!

(Before it opens, he looks after her and says:) You apologize ... (He
notes that it has obscured her face.) Very mad at me - how? (He ties
the package, whose seal is already broken and putting it on the table to
view its contents to be examined.) (Lady calmly, take her hands down and
shows that they do not cry, but merely reflect:) No, you were right - but
you do'm sorry.

(Napoleon believes in action, the top letter from the package to take
inne:) I am sorry you do - why? (Dame.) I will have to see how your
honor lose. (Napoleon.) Hm .. is that all? (He takes the letter in his
hand.) (Dame.) And your happiness. (Napoleon.) Luckily, my love, I am
the most boring thing in the world. If I were what I am, if I am lucky
to Shear? Anything else? (Dame.) Nothing - (He breaks them with an
exclamation of Befriedignng it goes calmly:) except that you have a very
strange figure in the eyes of France will submit. (Napoleon
soon:) What? (The hand that holds the letter, falls down involuntarily.
The lady looks at him enigmatic and remains calm in silence. He throws
the letter out and breaks into a stream of abuse from:) What do
you mean, how?

Begin your new tricks? Do you think that I do not know what these
papers contain? ... I will tell you. First, the understanding on Beaulieus
retreat ... he has only the choice between two things which he can do
this stubborn idiot! either in Mantua or include the neutrality of Venice
through the ingestion of Peschiera hurt.

You are one of the spies of the old idiot. He has discovered that he was
betrayed, and has sent you to this message at any price to frustrate.
As if he was in front of me could save, the old fool! The other papers
included only my ordinary Parisian correspondence, which you know
nothing.

(Dame quickly and businesslike:) Sir, let's be honest shall take
the messages that you have spies on the Austrian army sent, and
give send me the Paris correspondent - that will satisfy me.

(Napoleon quite breathless about the silence with which she makes this
suggestion:) Honestly tei ... (He snaps after air.) It seems to me, Madame,
that my letters as your lawful property, whose I am trying to deprive
you! (Seriously lady:) No, in my honor, I ask any of your letters - not
a word which you or to you was written. This package contains a stolen
letter: a letter to a woman a man has written, a man who is not her husband,
- a letter of shame, infamy means - ( Napoleon.) A love letter? (bitter-sweet
lady:) What else than a love letter could stir up so much hatred?
(Napoleon.) Why was he sent to me? To my husband's violence to - what?
(Dame.) No, no - it can help you in any way useful. I swear to you that
it will cost you nothing if you give it to me. He was sent to you out
of pure malice, sent - solely to the woman who wrote him to compromise.
(Napoleon.) Why has it her husband does not sent? What do I mean
by that? (Dame entirely from the text put:) Oh! (It drops into the chair
back:) I ... do not know. (It is collapsing.) (Napoleon.) Aha! I thought
'it right, - a small novel to the papers back. (He throws the packet on
the table, and it occurs out in cynical good humor,) Per Bacco, little
woman! I can not help but admire you! If so, I understood how to
lie, I could save myself a lot of trouble. (Lady wringing their hands:)
Oh, how I wished that I really just would have told a lie! Then you
would have believed me!

The only thing that nobody wants to believe is the truth. (Napoleon and
confidentiality of raw, treated them as if they would Marketenderin:)
Excellent, excellent! (He put his hands behind him on the table and continues
with the side gestemmten arms and legs stretched far apart on the
table.)

Go! I am a true Corsican in my fondness for stories! But I could tell it
better than you, when I might's affair.
I only wish poor old Lindau was as
well out of it as Conrad there."

"Ah, Lindau! He has done harm enough," said Mrs. March. "I hope he will
be careful after this."

March did not try to defend Lindau against her theory of the case, which
inexorably held him responsible for Conrad's death.

"Lindau's going to come out all right, I guess," said Fulkerson. "He was
first-rate when I saw him at the hospital to-night." He whispered in
March's ear, at a chance he got in mounting the station stairs: "I didn't
like to tell you there at the house, but I guess you'd better know. They
had to take Lindau's arm off near the shoulder. Smashed all to pieces by
the clubbing."

In the house, vainly rich and foolishly unfit for them, the bereaved
family whom the Marches had just left lingered together, and tried to get
strength to part for the night. They were all spent with the fatigue that
comes from heaven to such misery as theirs, and they sat in a torpor in
which each waited for the other to move, to speak.

Christine moved, and Mela spoke. Another of Lucullus' Unterbefehlshabern
who happens to this area came to the resolute Triarius collected while
another Heerhaufen and delivered to the king HAPPY battle alone,
he was much too weak to him by the Pontic ground and had to sell
it can happen that the Koenigswinter took lodgings in Komana.

Thus, the spring 687 (67) approached. The unification of the army in
Nisibis, which must be the winter quarters, the frequent absence
of the commander had the insubordination of the troops now have
increased, they required not merely impetuous, RECONSTITUTED too,
but it was already quite apparent that if the captain is refused,
they heimzufuehren, by itself would burst.

Inventories were barely; Fannius and Triarius sent in their beleaguered
situation implore the requests for assistance to the Oberfeld Lord. Heavy
heart decided to Lucullus, who need to be soft, Nisibis and
Tigranokerta abandon and to all the bright hopes of his Armenian
expedition renounce return on the right bank of the Euphrates.

Fannius was liberated, in Pontos, but it was already too late. Triarius
not strong enough to be beaten with Mithradates, had Gaziura (Turksal at
Iris, west of Tokat) a fixed position, while the luggage at Dadasa
behind.

As the latter, however, Mithradates besieged city, forced the Roman
soldiers, worried about their belongings, the Fuehrer, his secure
position to leave and between Gaziura and Ziela (Zilleh) on the
hill the king Skotischen a battle to deliver.

What Triarius previously had seen was a: in spite of the bravest resistance
through the wings, the king personally led the Roman line and urged
the people walk into a ravine along loamy, in which it neither
before nor sideways back and was relentless niedergehauen promised.

It was by a Roman centurion, who sacrificed his life, the king on the
death of wounded, but the defeat was a matter of no less complete. The
Roman camp was taken, the core of the foot people, almost all upper-and
non-covered soil; unbegraben the corpses remained on the battlefield,
and as Lucullus on the right Euphratufer arrived, he learned not
from those with him, but through the reports the defeat of the
natives. hand in hand with this defeat, the outbreak of
Militaerverschwoerung.

Ebenjetzt arrived from Rome in the message that the people had decided to
soldiers whose lawful duty time had expired, which means the
Fimbrianern, the farewell to grant and one of the consuls of the
year in the supreme command and Pontus Bithynien to take over, was
already the successor Luculls, Manius the consul Acilius Glabrio,
landed in Asia Minor.

The adoption of the bravest and restless legions and the dismissal
of Mr.

Oberfeld in conjunction with the impression of defeat Ziela of life
in the army all the gang on the authority, just as the captain at
their most essential need.

For small Talaura in Armenia, he was the Pontic troops gegenueber,
headed by Tigran 'son-in-law, Mithradates of media, the Romans already
a HAPPY riders battle had delivered; ebendahin was of Armenia since the
main power of the great King in Anmarsch. Lucullus sent to the new governor
of Cilicia, Quintus Marcius, on the march to his province with just three
legions in Lykaonien arrived was to his assistance, the same
declared that his soldiers refused to march to Armenia.

He sent to Glabrio with the request to him by the people transferred
command to take over; same bezeigte even less desire, this is now
so difficult and dangerous task that has become their choice.

Lucullus, forced the supreme command to keep commanded to not Talaura also
against the Armenians and the Pontiker have to beat the Awakening
move against the Armenian army.

The soldiers came under the command march, arrived alone, where the
road to Armenia and Cappadocia are differences, suggested the mass of
the army and the latter went to the province of Asia. Here the coveted
Fimbrianer their farewell present, and although they are on the
request of the Oberfeld implore the Lord and the other corps abliessen
it again, but she insisted there when the winter herankaeme, without
providing them with an enemy gegenueberstaende, want to dissolve,
because what happened.

Mithradates not just once occupied nearly all his kingdom, but his rider
touched across Cappadocia and to Bithymen; same vain asked Koenig
Ariobarzanes in Quintus Marcius, when Lucullus and Glabrio for help. It
was a strange, almost incredible source of so glorious manner War. If one
merely on the military services, so has no other Roman general
with so little means so much designed as Lucullus, the talent and
the luck Sullas seemed to his students that this trait to have.

That among the obwaltenden ratio The Roman army from Armenia unharmed
back to Asia Minor, is a military miracle, which, as far as we can
judge, the withdrawal Xenophontischen far superior and probably first from
the soundness of the Roman and the oriental Untuechtigkeit the war is
being declared, but but under all circumstances to the head of this train
a pride of place among the full military capability secures the first
rank. When Lucullus' name is usually not covered by this is called,
so the cause appears to be just that sometimes no military only
reasonable report about his campaign has come to us, some everywhere, and
especially in wartime, nothing is regarded as The finally result, and
this certainly was a complete defeat of the same. The last unfortunate
turn of events, mainly through the mutiny of the soldiers were all
achtjaehrigen success of a war has been lost again, you stood in the
winter 687/88 (67/66) returned to exactly the same spot as in the winter
679/80 (75 / 74). no better results than the continental war provided the
Seekrieg against the Pirates, who also started with the same and
consistent with him in the closest connection was. It was already told
that the Senate in the year 680 (74) the experts decided that
cleaning up the seas by the pirates one hoechstkommandierenden
Admiral, the praetor Marcus Antonius, to take over.

Exclusive right from the outset had been in the choice of the leader
out perfectly, or rather those which are appropriate to this enforced
detention order had not had calculated that in the Senate all those
questions by Cethegus' influence and similar Koterieruecksichten
been decided.

They had also failed, the admiral chosen in a comprehensive manner appropriate
role of money and ships device, so that he by his immense Requisitions
befriended the Provincial fell almost as annoying as the pirates. The
successes were accordingly. In the Campania's waters, the fleet of
Antonius a number of pirate ships. With the Kretensern however, the
pirate with the friendship and alliance and had made its demand from
this community drain, gruff zurueckwiesen, it came to battle, and
the chains, Anthony precaution on its ships had in stock to the captive
Flibustier to captivate, served to the Quaestors and the other Roman
prisoners to the masts of the conquered Roman vessels to close,
as the Cretan captains Lasthenes and Panares from the island when
they delivered the Romans Seetreffen triumphantly after Kydonia
zuruecksteuerten.

Anthony, after he and his carelessly Kriegfuehrung enormous sums wasted
and not the least aligned had died in the year 683 (71) on Crete.
Part of the bad success of his expedition, and partly the preciousness of
Flottenbaus, some of the reluctance of the oligarchy against any officers
wider powers meant that after the de facto termination of the
enterprise by Antonius' death does not re-appointed Admiral Upper
and the old way back, every governor in his province for the
suppression of piracy to be sure, as for example, because the fleet
of Lucullus produced this effect in the Aegean Sea has been in
operation.

Just what the Cretans are concerned, it seemed like an affront against
Kydonia suffered decline but even this only by the sex-war declaration
can be answered.

Nevertheless, the Cretan envoys in the year 684 (70) in Rome with the
request appeared, the prisoners and the old zuruecknehmen Buendnis want
to restore, almost a favorable decision obtained Senate, what the
whole company was called a disgrace, which sold readily for sounding
price of the individual senator.

Only after a formal decision, the Senate Anlehen of the Cretan envoys
to the Roman bankers uncomplainingly made, ie after the Senate itself in
the impossibility moved had to bribe to leave, came the decree
established that the Cretan municipalities except the Roman
Ueberlaeufern the author of the outrage perpetrated against Kydonia,
the Fuehrer Lasthenes and Panares, the Romans to the appropriate
punishment to be handed over, and all vessels and boats of four or
more rowing extradite, 400 hostages and a fine of 4000 talents
(6250000 thalers) would pay , wofern they wished to avoid war.

As an envoy to the inspiration of such conditions not authorized, it was
one of the consuls of the next year determined after the end
of his year to go to Crete, where required in either the reception or
to take the war to begin. Accordingly appeared in 685 (69) of the
proconsul Quintus Metellus in the Cretan waters. The municipalities of the
island, preceded the larger cities Gortyna, Knossos, Kydonia were determined
to prefer using the weapons to defend themselves, as those Excess claims
to add. The Kretenser were a nefarious and degenerate people, with their
public and private existence of the pirates was overgrown so dearly
as the country with the robbery of the community Aetoler alone they
compared the Aetolern all about how many pieces including the bravery, and
it is because These two are the only Greek communities, the struggle
for independence and bravely led honorably. In Kydonia where Metellus
his three legions to the country began, there was a Cretan 24000 man
army under Lasthenes and Panares willing to receive him, it was a
battle in the open field in which the victory after a hard fight the
Romans did. Only the cities defied the Roman commander, nevertheless,
behind its walls; Metellus had to decide, one after the other to besiege.
First Kydonia ward where the debris of the beaten army itself had
thrown, after a long siege of Panares against the promise of free
deduction for himself over.

Lasthenes who escaped from the city, had the second time in Knossos
besieged, and also because this fortress was in the fall term, he
destroyed his treasures and entschluepfte again after places, such
as Lyktos, Eleutherna and others, the defense still continued.

Two years (686, 687 68, 67) passed before Metellus around the island so
that the Lord and final spot-free Greek soil in the violence
of the powerful Romans came, and the Cretan communities, as they first of
all the Greek city and the Constitution Seeherrschaft to himself had
developed, should also be the last of all those who once met the Mediterranean
Greek Seestaaten be the continental power succumbed to Roman. All
right conditions were met, to turn one of the usual pomphaften triumphs
to celebrate, the sex of his Meteller could Macedonian , numidischen,
Dalmatian, baliarischen titles with the same right to attach new
Cretan, and Rome had a more impressive name.

Nevertheless, the power of the Romans on the Mediterranean Sea never been
lower, the Corsairs never higher than in those years.

Well liked the Cretans Kilik and the oceans, which in this period up
to 1000 vessels have to be counted, the Isaurikers as the Kretikers and
void mock victory. As to the pirates in the war intervened and
Mithradatischen as the stubborn resistance of the Pontic Seestaedte their
best forces withdrew from the Korsarenstaat, was already tells. But the
same was also at his own hand hardly less great shops. Almost under
the eyes of the fleet Luculls invaded in the year 685 (69) Pirate of the
Island of Delos Athenodoros, destroyed their temples and sanctuaries
vielgefeierte and led the entire population into slavery.

The island of Sicily Lipara paid the pirates a fixed annual tribute to
spared of similar raids to stay. Another pirate boss, Herakleon, destroyed
in the year 682 (72) in Sicily against him squadron equipped and dared,
with no more than four open boats in the harbor of Syracuse specified.
Two years later, his colleague in the same port Pyrganion even to
the country, continued daselbst tightly and sent from there grazing
lots in the island until it to the Roman governor finally forced
to wiedereinzuschiffen.

That was at the end after being accustomed to that all provinces squadron
equipped and beach guards or determine but for both contributed, but
the Corsairs appeared so regularly to the provinces auszupluendern
as the Roman governor.

But even the sacred soil of Italy is now respected by the insolent harmdoers
no more: Kroton led by the treasure of the Temple of Hera Lakin
continued, they landed in Brundisium, Misenum, Caieta in the Etruscan
ports, yes even in Ostia, she brought the finest Roman officers as
prisoners, among others Flottenfuehrer of the Cilician army and two
praetor with their whole entourage, with the dreaded Beilen and
Ruten itself and all the insignia of their dignity, they abducted
from a villa in Misenum the sister of his own to destroy the pirates
output Admirals Upper Roman Anthony; they destroyed the port of
Ostia against them equipped and commanded by a Roman Consul war
fleet.

Latin Bauermann, the traveler on the road Appischen, the fine bathers
in the earthly paradises of Baiae were its effects, and their lives
fuerder sure not a moment; all trade and all traffic increased,
there was the horrendous inflation in Italy and especially in the
overseas Korn live capital.

The Mitwelt how the story is liberally with complaints about unbearable
state of emergency; here seems fit the description. It's been written so
far, as the Senate of Sulla restored the border guard in Macedonia,
the discipline about the clientele kings of Asia Minor, as he finally
has practiced the river the results were never satisfactory. Not
better successes achieved in the government of another, perhaps
even more urgent matter, the supervision of the provincial and
especially of the Italian proletariat.

The cancer claims of slave proletariat consume the brand at all states
of antiquity, and more so the more powerful they were emporgeblueht,
because power and wealth of the State under the existing conditions
usually result in a disproportionate increase in the number of slaves
quantity. Naturally, therefore, Rome suffered such severe than any other
state of antiquity.

Even the government of the sixth century, against the gangs of runaway
shepherds and field slaves have to send troops.

"Do you think so? Well, perhaps. But I don't believe Fulkerson would let
me stand long between him and an Angel of the right description."

"Well, then, I believe he would. And you've never seen anything, Basil,
to make you really think that Mr. Fulkerson didn't appreciate you to the
utmost."

"I think I came pretty near an undervaluation in that Lindau trouble. I
shall always wonder what put a backbone into Fulkerson just at that
crisis. Fulkerson doesn't strike me as the stuff of a moral hero."

"At any rate, he was one," said Mrs. March, "and that's quite enough for
me."

March did not answer. "What a noble thing life is, anyway! Here I am,
well on the way to fifty, after twenty-five years of hard work, looking
forward to the potential poor-house as confidently as I did in youth. We
might have saved a little more than we have saved; but the little more
wouldn't avail if I were turned out of my place now; and we should have
lived sordidly to no purpose. Some one always has you by the throat,
unless you have some one else in your grip. I wonder if that's the
attitude the Almighty intended His respectable creatures to take toward
one another! I wonder if He meant our civilization, the battle we fight
in, the game we trick in! I wonder if He considers it final, and if the
kingdom of heaven on earth, which we pray for--"

"Have you seen Lindau to-day?" Mrs. March asked.

"You inferred it from the quality of my piety?" March laughed, and then
suddenly sobered. "Yes, I saw him. It's going rather hard with him, I'm
afraid. The amputation doesn't heal very well; the shock was very great,
and he's old. It 'll take time. There's so much pain that they have to
keep him under opiates, and I don't think he fully knew me. At any rate,
I didn't get my piety from him to-day."

"It's horrible! Horrible!" said Mrs. March. "I can't get over it! After
losing his hand in the war, to lose his whole arm now in this way! It
does seem too cruel! Of course he oughtn't to have been there; we can say
that. But you oughtn't to have been there, either, Basil."

"Well, I wasn't exactly advising the police to go and club the railroad
presidents."

"Neither was poor Conrad Dryfoos."

"I don't deny it. All that was distinctly the chance of life and death.
That belonged to God; and no doubt it was law, though it seems chance.
But what I object to is this economic chance-world in which we live, and
which we men seem to have created. It ought to be law as inflexible in
human affairs as the order of day and night in the physical world that if
a man will work he shall both rest and eat, and shall not be harassed
with any question as to how his repose and his provision shall come.
Nothing less ideal than this satisfies the reason. But in our state of
things no one is secure of this. No one is sure of finding work; no one
is sure of not losing it. I may have my work taken away from me at any
moment by the caprice, the mood, the indigestion of a man who has not the
qualification for knowing whether I do it well, or ill. At my time of
life--at every time of life--a man ought to feel that if he will keep on
doing his duty he shall not suffer in himself or in those who are dear to
him, except through natural causes. But no man can feel this as things
are now; and so we go on, pushing and pulling, climbing and crawling,
thrusting aside and trampling underfoot; lying, cheating, stealing; and
then we get to the end, covered with blood and dirt and sin and shame,
and look back over the way we've come to a palace of our own, or the
poor-house, which is about the only possession we can claim in common
with our brother-men, I don't think the retrospect can be pleasing."

"I know, I know!" said his wife. "I think of those things, too, Basil.
Life isn't what it seems when you look forward to it. But I think people
would suffer less, and wouldn't have to work so hard, and could make all
reasonable provision for the future, if they were not so greedy and so
foolish."

"Oh, without doubt! We can't put it all on the conditions; we must put
some of the blame on character. But conditions make character; and people
are greedy and foolish, and wish to have and to shine, because having and
shining are held up to them by civilization as the chief good of life. We
all know they are not the chief good, perhaps not good at all; but if
some one ventures to say so, all the rest of us call him a fraud and a
crank, and go moiling and toiling on to the palace or the poor-house. We
can't help it. If one were less greedy or less foolish, some one else
would have and would shine at his expense. We don't moil and toil to
ourselves alone; the palace or the poor-house is not merely for
ourselves, but for our children, whom we've brought up in the
superstition that having and shining is the chief good. We dare not teach
them otherwise, for fear they may falter in the fight when it comes their
turn, and the children of others will crowd them out of the palace into
the poor-house. If we felt sure that honest work shared by all would
bring them honest food shared by all, some heroic few of us, who did not
wish our children to rise above their fellows--though we could not bear
to have them fall below--might trust them with the truth. But we have no
such assurance, and so we go on trembling before Dryfooses and living in
gimcrackeries."

"Basil, Basil! I was always willing to live more simply than you. You
know I was!"

"I know you always said so, my dear. But how many bell-ratchets and
speaking-tubes would you be willing to have at the street door below? I
remember that when we were looking for a flat you rejected every building
that had a bell-ratchet or a speaking-tube, and would have nothing to do
with any that had more than an electric button; you wanted a hall-boy,
with electric buttons all over him. I don't blame you. I find such things
quite as necessary as you do."

"And do you mean to say, Basil," she asked, abandoning this unprofitable
branch of the inquiry, "that you are really uneasy about your place? that
you are afraid Mr. Dryfoos may give up being an Angel, and Mr. Fulkerson
may play you false?"

"Play me false? Oh, it wouldn't be playing me false. It would be merely
looking out for himself, if the new Angel had editorial tastes and wanted
my place. It's what any one would do."

"You wouldn't do it, Basil!"

"Wouldn't I? Well, if any one offered me more salary than 'Every Other
Week' pays--say, twice as much--what do you think my duty to my suffering
family would be? It's give and take in the business world, Isabel;
especially take. But as to being uneasy, I'm not, in the least. I've the
spirit of a lion, when it comes to such a chance as that. When I see how
readily the sensibilities of the passing stranger can be worked in New
York, I think of taking up the role of that desperate man on Third Avenue
who went along looking for garbage in the gutter to eat. I think I could
pick up at least twenty or thirty cents a day by that little game, and
maintain my family in the affluence it's been accustomed to."

"Basil!" cried his wife. "You don't mean to say that man was an impostor!
And I've gone about, ever since, feeling that one such case in a million,
the bare possibility of it, was enough to justify all that Lindau said
about the rich and the poor!"

March laughed teasingly. "Oh, I don't say he was an impostor. The fact
that in the meantime the governor of Cilicia stocks with the Bergvoelkern
of Amanos that of Syria with the swarms of the desert had to fight,
especially in this war against the Bedouin some Roman troops aufgerieben
ward, is without further significance. Remarkable is the stubborn resistance
of the Jewish nation the tough conquerors opposite. Part of the deposed
King Aristobulos son, Alexandros, partly Aristobulos itself, which after
some time, from which to escape captivity, excited during the governorship
of Aulus Gabinius (697-700 57-54) three different REBELLIONS against
the new rulers, whose every of Rome established the government of the
high priest succumbed to Hyrkanos fainted. It was not political
considerations, but the invincible reluctance of the Orientals against the
unnatural yoke, which they forced, against the sting of Löcker, as well
as the last and most dangerous REBELLIONS to which the Egyptian crisis
prompted the move to the Syrian occupation army next stimulus was
started with the murder of residents in Palestine Roemer.

Not without effort, succeeded in the brave governor, the few Romans
who is deprived of this destiny, and a temporary refuge in the
mountains Gerizim had found, from there they blocked conservative
Insurgente to deliver hard and after several contentious field
battles and sieges the protracted insurgency cope.

The result was the chief priests and the monarchy abolished Jewish
country, like Macedonia, in five independent from optima table Kollegienhaus
managed orderly government circles dissolved, including Samaria and other
Jews from the villages to restore down to a counterweight against
Jerusalem to form finally the Jews heavier toll imposed than the
other subjects Syrian Rome.

It is left to the Kingdom of Egypt along with him the last of the
vast conquests of Lagiden remaining Besides land, the beautiful
island of Kypros, throwing a glance.

Egypt was now the only least nominally independent state nor the
Hellenic East; ebenwie once, when the Persians in the eastern half of
the Mediterranean is set at, the final conquest of Egypt was also lined
the powerful conquerors from the West with the longest recovery
this rich and unique landscape.

The cause was, as already suggested, neither the fear of the opposition
in Egypt nor the lack of an appropriate reason.

Egypt was about as powerless as Syria and in the year 673 (81) in the
form of all rights of the Roman municipality angestorben, which the court
of Alexandreia ruling royal regiment of the Guards, which ministers
and kings sometimes one and settle, for it took what liked her, and if
you increase the Soldes was refused, the king besieged in his palace, was
in the country, or rather in the capital - because the country
with his field slaves People hardly ever came about in - not at all
popular, and least daselbst a party wishes to recover Egypt by Rome,
and did actually take steps to achieve them.

With the fewer the kings Egypt could remember, with the weapons to
fight against Rome, the more vigorously continued the Egyptian gold
against the Roman Reunionsplaene on the weirs; and as a result of
peculiar despotic communist centralization of the Egyptian economy,
the income of the courtyard of the Roman Alexandreia state revenue,
even after their reproduction by Pompey, still about the same.

The suspicious jealousy of the oligarchy, which neither the administration
nor the conquest of Egypt like an individual treat, was added. How could
the de facto lords of Egypt and Kypros through bribery of the
leading men in the Senate that their wobbly crowns not only to
deadlines, but even to re-attach from the Senate and the confirmation of
their title to purchase Koenig. With so they were not yet at the finish.
The formal state law called for a decision of the Roman residents, before
it was adopted, were the Ptolemaeer depending on the mood of each
Habers democratic power, and they had so the corruption war is also against
the other party to open Roman, which far more powerful than the
higher prices bedang.

The output was uneven. The recovery of Kypros was in the year 696 (58)
from the people, ie by the leaders of democracy has, and as the
official reason why the same would be made now, the promotion of
piracy by Kyprioten was given.

Marcus Cato, of his opponents with the implementation of such measure
instructed, came to the island without the army, which alone is also
not needed. The king took poison, and the inhabitants have blended, without
resistance, the inevitable doom, and were the governor of Cilicia
subordinate. The rich treasure of talent almost 7000 (almost 13 million
crowns), the equally ambitious habsuechtige as Koenig was not
able to overcome, for the rescue of his crown bribes necessary to attack,
this also coincided with the Romans and reply in desirable ways
the empty vaults of their Aerars.

On the other hand, succeeded his brother, who reigned in Egypt, the
final recognition by people of the new masters of Rome in 695 (59)
to purchase, the purchase price will be 6000 talents (11 million
crowns) being said.

The residents of course, a long Floetenblaeser against the good and bad
rulers, and now bitterly by the definitive loss of Kypros, and the
result of transactions with the Romans AN INTOLERABLE increased
taxes placed extreme pressure on (696 58), chased him from the
country.

When the Koenig pointed, almost as Entwaehrung because of the purchase
object, is turned to his seller, these are cheap enough to see
that they are as honest businessmen must exercise the Ptolemaeos
his kingdom wiederzuverschaffen only the parties could not agree
who the important order, Egypt armed with a hand to be filled,
together with the hope to which sports should be given.

Only when the Triarchie at the conference of Luca is now fortified, was
also the matter sorted after Ptolemaeos are still shooting for a further
10000 talents (18 million crowns) had understood: the governor of Syria,
Aulus Gabinius, now received by those in power command, immediately to
the Koenigs Zurueckfuehrung the necessary steps to do so. The residents
of Alexandreia had now displaced the king's oldest daughter Berenike the
crown and set it in the person of one of the spiritual princes of the
Roman Asia, the high priest of Komana Archelaos, a husband, who had
enough ambition to take part in the hope of the throne the Lagiden to
climb, its secure and respectable position must be set. His attempts
to bring the Roman rulers to gain for himself, remained without success,
but he also schrak not back before the idea of his new kingdom with the
weapons in the hands themselves against the Romans claim to have.

Gabinius without ostensible mandate, the war against Egypt to begin, but
by those in power to dependent, took the alleged promotion of piracy by
Egypt and the Flottenbau Archelaos as a pretext to ungesaeumt and broke
against the Egyptian border (699 55). The march through the Sandwueste
between Gaza and Pelusion, at some directed against Egypt invasion
had failed, was happy to go this time, especially.

The speedy and skillful leader of the cavalry, Marcus Antonius, was owed.
Also, the border fortress Pelusion was standing there by the Jewish
occupation without resistance over. Forward this city met the Romans
on the Egyptians, beat them, while Anthony is once again excelled and
reached the first Roman army, to the Nile. Here were fleet and army of
the Egyptians to the last decisive battle is drawn up, but the
Romans won again Archelaos and found himself with a lot of battling
with him to death.

Immediately after this battle resulted in the capital, and thus was any
resistance at the end.

The unfortunate country was his legitimate Zwingherrn survived: the
executioner and minds, thus excluding the chivalric Antonius' Dazwischenkunft
Ptolemaeos the restoration of legitimate Regiment already begun
to celebrate Pelusion would have went unabated his career, and,
above all others was the innocent daughter by the father sent to
the scaffold.

The payment with the leaders agreed wages failed to absolute impossibility,
the landing ausgesogenen the enormous sums required abzupressen,
although it is the poor people took the last penny, but that the
country remained calm least cared for in the capital zurueckgelassene
crew of Roman and Celtic infantry and German cavalry, which replaced
the native Praetorian and, incidentally, not unhappy nacheiferte
them.

The current hegemony of Rome on Egypt was thus in a direct military
occupation and transformed the nominal continuation of the native
kingdom was not so much a preference for the country as a zwiefache
burden 5.

Chapter The party struggle during Pompey 'With the absence of laws
Gabin the metropolitan parties alternated roles.

Since the chosen captain of the democracy the sword held in his hand,
his party was or what dafuer was also in the capital overpowering. Well,
the nobility still closed and still went to the consuls Komitialmaschine
only apparent after the expression of the Democrats already in the diapers
to designated consulates were to dominate the elections, and here the
influence of the old families to break even managed the rulers do not.
But unfortunately caught the consulate, ibidem it had brought so far, the
"new man" as good as completely exclude them, to himself, before the
new rising star, exceptional Militaergewalt to blanch. The aristocracy
felt it when they can not just be confessed, they had themselves
lost.

Except Catulus Quintus, with respectable strength in his little
encouraging post as a Vorfechter overcome Party until his death
(694 60) endureth, is from the highest ranks of the nobility Optimat
not to mention the interests of the aristocracy with courage and
constancy represented would have.

Eben their talented and celebrated men, such as Quintus Metellus
Pius and Lucius Lucullus, abdizierten and actually retreated as far
as any schicklicherweise concerned, at their villa back to about
gardens and libraries, about Vogelhaeusern ponds and fish market
and the town hall, where possible, to forget .

Much more, this is of course the younger generation of the aristocracy,
either in whole luxury and literature of the rising or setting sun
zuwandte.

One among the disciples made this an exception: it's Marcus Porcius Cato
(born 659 95), a man of the best will and rare devotion, and yet one
of the most adventurous and one of the unpleasant symptoms of this in
political caricatures over time. Ehrlich and steadily, seriously in want
and in action, full adherence to his ancestral homeland and the
Constitution, but a slow and sensual head as morally without
passion, he would have possibly a fair calculation state champion
submit fans.

Unfortunately, however, he fell early under the violence of the phrase,
and partly dominated by the Stoa types of speech, as in abstract baldness
and soulless demolished make the then world were in circulation, in part
by the example of his great-grandfather, to renew it for held its special
task, he began as a model citizen and virtue mirror in the sinful city
umherzuwandeln, equal to the old Cato in the times to scold, to
walk rather than ride, to take no interest, soldierly honor and
refuse to restore the good old order, in that he Koenig Romulus'
operation went without a shirt.

A strange caricature of his ancestors, the elderly farmers, the
hatred and anger on the speaker made the plow as the sword most
certainly led, with its narrow, but original and common sense is
usually the nail on the head hit, he was young cool scholar,
schoolmaster of the wisdom of the lips and troff you always start
with the book in his hand sitting saw this philosopher, neither the
war nor any other craft understood that this cloud converter in
abstract realms of morality.

Nevertheless, he became a moral and even political importance. In a
perfectly miserable and cowardly time impressed his courage and his
negative virtues of quantity, he made even school, and there
were some - admittedly they were after - the vibrant stencil philosophers
continue copied again and caricatured. At the same cause is also his
political influence. Since he is the only well-known conservatives was
not where the talent and insight, but honesty and courage and had
always stood ready, where it is necessary and was not required, in his
person the hill to beat, so he was, although neither his age nor his rank
nor his spirit him to legitimate, but soon recognized the Vormann
Optimatenpartei. Where endure a single resolute man could decide, he
has also probably made a success and in detail, notably financial, often
expedient intervened, as it in no Senate meeting and was missing
with his Quaestur epoch in fact made, even while he lived the public
budget in various controlled and natural about it because even with
the Steuerpaechtern lived in constant wars. Moreover, no man to him to
state more than anything.

He was incapable of a political purpose, just to understand and political
relationships to overlook his whole tactic was against every front to
make of the traditional moral-political catechism of the aristocracy
abwich or derogate it seemed, so he naturally ebensooft the defendant
as the party comrades in the hands worked. The Don Quixote of the aristocracy,
he through his good nature and his doing that at that time nor any
aristocracy exists, but the aristocratic politics was nothing more than
a chimera.
"I understand it's a delicate thing; and I'm not askin' you to do it.
What I would really like to do--if you think he could be prepared for it,
some way, and could stand it--would be to go to him myself, and tell him
just what the trouble was. I'm in hopes, if I done that, he could see how
I felt about it."

A picture of Dryfoos going to the dead Lindau with his vain regrets
presented itself to March, and he tried once more to make the old man
understand. "Mr. Dryfoos," he said, "Lindau is past all that forever,"
and he felt the ghastly comedy of it when Dryfoos continued, without
heeding him.

"I got a particular reason why I want him to believe it wasn't his ideas
I objected to--them ideas of his about the government carryin' everything
on and givin' work. I don't understand 'em exactly, but I found a
writin'--among--my son's-things" (he seemed to force the words through
his teeth), "and I reckon he--thought--that way. Kind of a diary--where
he--put down--his thoughts. My son and me--we differed about a good-many
things." His chin shook, and from time to time he stopped. "I wasn't very
good to him, I reckon; I crossed him where I guess I got no business to
cross him; but I thought everything of--Coonrod. He was the best boy,
from a baby, that ever was; just so patient and mild, and done whatever
he was told. I ought to 'a' let him been a preacher! Oh, my son! my son!"
The sobs could not be kept back any longer; they shook the old man with a
violence that made March afraid for him; but he controlled himself at
last with a series of hoarse sounds like barks. "Well, it's all past and
gone! But as I understand you from what you saw, when Coonrod
was--killed, he was tryin' to save that old man from trouble?"

"Yes, yes! It seemed so to me."

"That 'll do, then! I want you to have him come back and write for the
book when he gets well. I want you to find out and let me know if there's
anything I can do for him. I'll feel as if I done it--for my--son. I'll
take him into my own house, and do for him there, if you say so, when he
gets so he can be moved. I'll wait on him myself. It's what Coonrod 'd
do, if he was here. I don't feel any hardness to him because it was him
that got Coonrod killed, as you might say, in one sense of the term; but
I've tried to think it out, and I feel like I was all the more beholden
to him because my son died tryin' to save him. Whatever I do, I'll be
doin' it for Coonrod, and that's enough for me." (He caresses her
cheeks:) Will we be friends? (Enchanted lady:) your girlfriend!

You want to allow me, your girlfriend to be? Oh! (It reaches him her two
hands with a beaming smile.)

You see, I would show you my trust.

(Napoleon with a Wutschrei and sparkling eyes:) What? (Dame.) What
happened? (Napoleon.) your confidence! so I trust you for my gift and
allow you to send me with my dispatches davonzugehen - what? Ah, Delila,
Delila! You have your art in me trying, and I was a simpleton as large
as my ass by a lieutenant. (He is threatening to get rid of.) Enter the
dispatches - fast! I can now no longer fun to me!
Dryfoos--it can't be. It is pure grass. As talks continued, I do not know.

Who need's to know?

You again on the hour, and Hanne sighed deeply: "So, beautiful Lord, does
that mean just kiss? The men's heart!

Einzger has no conscience.
He could not wait till the children
were out of the way, and afterward neither he nor his wife was sorry that
he had spoken of it before them. The girl cried plentifully for her old
friend who was dead, and said she hated Mr. Dryfoos, and then was sorry
for him, too; and the boy listened to all, and spoke with a serious sense
that pleased his father. "But as to how he took it," March went on to
answer his wife's question about Dryfoos--"how do any of us take a thing
that hurts? Some of us cry out, and some of us don't. Dryfoos drew a kind
of long, quivering breath, as a child does when it grieves--there's
something curiously simple and primitive about him--and didn't say
anything. Koenig Galba was an honest, respected man in general, but the
steering of an army of 300000 men in enemy soil, he was unable to cope.
It was not on and the stocks went on the run, and discontent began to
split in the camp of the Confederates to einzunisten. The Bellovaker
especially the Suessiones to power already detuned equally and that
the field team of the principal Swiss Federal army not come to them,
were no longer to hold, since the message received was that the Haeduer
as allies of the Institute Roemer made in bellovakische the field with.
They decided to dissolve itself and to go home, and when all the
shame's sake Gaue also committed initially attacked with the whole hand
to run to their aid as promised by such impossible Stipulationen apart
the poor running of the Confederation beschoenigt just pathetic. It
was a disaster, which vividly remembers those who in 1792 almost on
the same soil occurred, and even as the campaign in the Champagne was
the only defeat so severe because it was done without a battle. The bad
management of the peeling army allowed the Roman commander, the same
track as if it were a solid, and a portion of the quotas until the
last surviving aufzureiben.

But the consequences of victory are not limited to this. Like Caesar in
the western cantons of BELGIUM Dutch Spanish German French einrueckte,
were one after the other almost without resistance is lost: the powerful
Suessiones (around Soissons), as well as its rival, the Bellovaker
(around Beauvais) and Ambiani (around Amiens).

The cities who opened the gates when they heard the strange siege machines,
on the walls beheld zurollenden towers; who the strange Lord revealed
liked, sought a refuge beyond the sea in Britain.

But in the eastern cantons stirred vigorously the Nationalgefuehl.
The Viromanduer (to Arras), which Atrebates (to Saint-Quentin),
the German Aduatuker (Namur), but especially the Nervian (in Hainaut),
with its clientele is not limited to the number and Suessiones
Bellovakern yielding little to bravery Fatherland and strong sense
far superior to them, made a second and closer federal and withdrew
their teams at the top Samtire together.

Celtic spies informed them about the rigorous movement of the Roman
army and their own local and high Verzaeunungen which these
landscapes were created everywhere, often to the same home Mounted
Raeuberscharen seeking to obstruct the way, allowing the allies,
their own operations with the view the Romans to withdraw most.

When these at the Sambre near Bavay concerned and also employs the
legions were on the crest of the left bank to beat the camp, the
cavalry and light infantry beyond the heights to explore, were at
once the latter by the total mass of the enemy's country Storm over
fall and the hill down into the river dynamited.

In a moment the enemy had also exceeded this and stormed todverachtender
with determination the heights of the left bank. No sooner did the Schanz
Legionnaires time to hoe with the sword to confuse the soldiers,
many unbehelmt had to fight where they just stood, without slaughtering
line, with no plan, no real command, because the sudden transfer of
the case and that of high hedges cut through the terrain had
individual sections completely lost the connection.

Instead, the battle resulted in a number of related bulk battles. Labienus
with the left wing and threw the Atrebates pursued them up on the River.
The Roman appropriation meeting urged the Viromanduer down the
slope.

The right-wing but in which the captain himself, was by the far more
numerous Nervii outstrips the easier than the average meeting, by his
success fortgerissen, the space next to him had cleared, and even the
semi-camp of the Nervii filled; The two legions, each one into a tight
ball and zusammengeballt from the front and both flanks to attack,
their most of their best officers and soldiers robbed, seemed on
the point blown up and put together to be cut.

Even the Roman retinue fled and the Federal troops on all sides, from the
Celtic cavalry hunted entire departments, such as the quota of
Treviri, reins imposed by them, from the battlefield to the welcome
of course the customer suffered defeat at home to report.

It was everything at stake. The captain himself took the plate and
challenged at the front, his example, his is still inspiring shouts brought
the fluctuating series back to standing. Already it was quite the air and
at least made the connection of the two legions of this wing is restored,
as Succurs herbeikam: some of the Uferkamm down, where the luggage
while the Roman rearguard had arrived, some of her other riverbank,
where up to now Labienus the enemy camp was vorgedrungen and usurps
his had, and now finally on the right-wing threat caused by the
victorious tenth legion's commander sent to assist. The Nervian, separated
from its allies and from all sides simultaneously attacked, now
proven, where the luck is turning, the same heroism as winners because
they are believed, even by the mountains of corpses yours challenged them
down to the last man after their own claim survived by their six hundred
councilors only three that day. After this crushing defeat had to
Nervian, Atrebates Viromanduer and probably recognize the Roman
sovereignty.

The Aduatuker, arrived too late to participate in the battle on the Sambre
part, still trying, in the tightest of their cities (on the mountains
Falhize in the Meuse near Huy) to hold, but soon they too subdued. An
even more daring after the surrender of nocturnal fall of the Roman
overnight camp outside the city failed and the betrayal was by the
Romans punished with terrible severity.

The clientele of Aduatuker arising from the Eburones between the Meuse and
Rhine and other small, neighboring tribes, were by the Romans declared
self employed, the captive Aduatuker but in favor of the mass of
Roman treasure under the hammer sold.

It seemed as if the doom which had affected Kimbrer, even this last
kimbrischen factions still pursues.

Subject to the other tribes did Caesar a general disarmament and hostage
position to pay. The Remer were naturally the leading Belgian Gau in
the middle Haeduer in Gaul, even went into this with some of the
opposing clans Haeduern much more to the clientele of Reiner.

Seekantone only the remotest of Morin (Artois) and the Menapii (Flanders
and Brabant ), and largely inhabited by Germans landscape between the
Scheldt and the Rhine remained for this time of the Roman invasion
spared and still in possession of their rightful freedom.

The series came to the aremorikanischen Gaue.

Even in the autumn of 697 (57) Publius Crassus was a Roman Corps
then sent it meant that the Veneti who, as lords of the harbors of
today's Morbihan and a considerable fleet, in shipping and trade
in all Celtic Gauen taking the first place and above all Kuestendistrikte
between the Loire and Seine to the Romans subdued and made them
hostages.

But it gereute soon. As in the following winter (697/98 57 / 5 Roman
officers in these areas came to cereal supplies daselbst award,
they were by the Veneti as Gegengeiseln noted.

The given example was followed not only the rapidly aremoricanischen,
but still remained free of Seekantone BELGIUM Dutch Spanish German
French , where, as in some Gauen of Normandy, the council refused
to join the Insurrektion, made him the crowd down and closed with
double zeal for the National itself.

The whole coast from the mouth of the Loire to the Rhine stood
against Rome, and the determined patriots from all Celtic Gauen
hurried there to participate in the great works of liberation, we
have calculated on the uprising of the Belgian Confederation, on
advice from Britain on the indentation of the ueberrheinischen
Germans.

Labienus Caesar sent with the whole cavalry to the Rhine to the Belgian
brewing landscape niederzuhalten the Germans and, if necessary, the
transition over the river to defend, another of his sub-commander, Quintus
Sabinus Titurius, went with three legions to the Normandy, where the
bulk of Insurgente is collected. Only the actual outbreak of Insurrektion
were powerful and intelligent Veneti; against them was on land and
sea to attack the main addressed.

The part of the ships of the untertaenigen Keltengaue, partly out of a
number of Roman, hastily built on the Loire, with rowers from the
province Narbonensischen manned galleys made the sub fleet led
captain approached Decimus Brutus, Caesar himself moved with the core
of his infantry in the territory of the Veneti. But it was there and
had prepared well as cleverly decided to use caution in the brittany
terrain and possession of a great naval power darbot. The scenery was
passing through and getreidearm, the cities largely on cliffs and headlands
located and forth from the mainland only to hard to pass Watten
accessible, such as the catering for the siege were to land troops
attacking the same difficulty, while the Celts by their ships, the Cities
easily with all necessary, and in the worst case, the eviction could
accomplish the same.

The legions wasted in the siege of the Venetian towns of time and energy
to last the main fruits of victory on the ships of the enemy to see
disappear. So when the Roman fleet, long in the Loiremuendung storms
zurueckgehalten finally at the coast brittany arrived, we gave it to the
fight through a battle to decide. The Celts, their superiority in this
conscious elements, led by Brutus against the Roman fleet, commanded
the front of theirs. Not only counts those two hundred and twenty
sail, far more than the Romans were able, their hochbordigen,
festgebauten of flat-bottomed sailboats were also far more suitable for
hochgehenden the waters of the Atlantic ocean as the low leichtgefugten
Rudergaleeren the Romans with their sharp keels. Neither bullets nor
the Romans could Enterbruecken the high deck of the enemy ships to
reach and powerful at the same oak planks clashed the iron beaks
from powerless. The Roman ship people cut the ropes by which the yards on
the masts were attached, by means of long poles fastened sickles;
yardarms and swooping and sailing, as the damage is not understood
to be replaced quickly, thus became the ship to the wreck, as
Nowadays, due to falls of the masts, and easily succeeded the Roman
boats, through a united attack paralyzed the enemy ship to bemeistern.

When the Gauls, this maneuver innewurden tried them from the coast, where
they battle with the Romans had to be removed and the high seas to
win, where the Roman galleys could not follow them, just unfortunate
for them to suddenly occurred a complete calm, and the huge fleet to
which the equipment Seegaue all their forces had, by the Romans was
almost entirely destroyed. So was this battle - if the historic customer
goes, the oldest on the Atlantic Ocean beaten - ebenwie two hundred years
before the meeting at Myla, despite the unfavorable conditions of an
emergency entered happy invention for the Romans decided advantage.
The consequence of Brutus erfochtenen victory was the acquiescence
of the Veneti and the whole of Brittany.

More to the Celtic nation, after so many proofs of the subjugated
to Milde, now by an example of terrible severity against the stubbornly
reluctant to impose, as to the breach of contract and the arrest of the
Roman officers, punish, Caesar had the whole council, and execute
the residents of the Venetian Gaus to the last man in the bondage
sale.

Through this horrible fate as their intelligence and their patriotism,
the Veneti more than any other Keltenclan a right to the acquired
part of the world.

The canal brought the banns Kuestenstaaten Sabinus meanwhile continued the
same tactics which, by Caesar, the year before the Belgian country storm
at the Aisne overcome had he behaved defensive until impatience
and lack in the ranks of the enemies of tears, and she knew then
misunderstood the mood and strength of his troops, and especially
by its own impatience to a reckless assault on the Roman camp to
entice and to suggest what the militia is scattered and the landscape
to be subjected to His.

Only Morin and insisted Menapii in the process of recognition of the Roman
jurisdiction to evade.

In order to force appeared Caesar at its borders: gewitzigt but by
the citizens of their country's experience, they avoid it, the
battle on the border in Poland and incorporated back into the time
of the Ardennes against the North Sea is almost uninterrupted pine
forest .

The Romans tried to muddle through with the same ax to pave a road, to
which both sides of the cut trees as Verbacke against enemy raids were
aufgeschichtet alone even Caesar, daring as he was, took place after several
days of arduous marching is advisable, especially since it went against
the winter, the withdrawal order by the Morin although only a small part
of the subject and powerful Menapii not been reached. The following
year (699 55) was, while Caesar himself was employed in Britain, the
biggest part of the army anew against such Voelkerschaften all alone,
this expedition was in the main unsuccessful. However, it was the result
of the recent campaigns of the almost complete subjugation of Gaul under
the rule of the Romans.

If funds Gaul without resistance under the same were inserted, they were
by the campaign of the year 697 (57), the Belgian, by the following
year the Seegaue with the weapons on the recognition of the Roman
domination had been forced.

The lofty aspirations, but with which the Celtic patriots started the last
campaign, had never been fulfilled. Neither British nor Germans had
them come to the aid and Belgium had Labienus' enough presence, the
renewal of last year's struggles to prevent. Thus, while Caesar the
Roman territory in the West with the weapons into a coherent whole
fortbildete, he has not failed, the newly subject area, which was so
determined that between Italy and Spain gaping Gebietsluecke filled
with Italic home as with the Spanish provinces of communications
open.

The connection between Gaul and Italy, however, was by Pompey in the
year of 677 (77) Heerstrasse based on the Mont Genevre much easier been
alone since the whole of Gaul under the Romans was, it took a Potal not
from the west, but in northerly direction beyond the Alps and a shorter
connection between Italy and Gaul, producing a middle road. The
businessman served so long been the way of the Great Bernhard in the Valais
and Lake Geneva leads; to this road in his power to bring Caesar
had been in the autumn of 697 (57) by Servius Galba Octodurum
(Martigny) and occupy the inhabitants of the Valais Botmaessigkeit
to bring as a result of the valiant resistance of these naturally
Bergvoelker only delayed, not prevented ward.

To further the connection with Spain to win, was the following year (698
56) Publius Crassus after Aquitaine sent with the order, the daselbst
Iberian tribes living on the recognition of the Roman dominion to
compel.

The task was not without difficulty, and the Iberians were fixed to
collectively as the Celts and understood it better than those of their
enemies to learn. The tribes across the Pyrenees, including the stalwart
Cantabrian sent their fellow countrymen threatened influx, were experienced
with this, under Sertorius' Roman leaders trained officers, to the extent
possible the principles of the Roman art of war, namely pounding the
camp, which by its number and its considerable bravery Aquitaine banns
introduced.

With the excellent officer who led the Romans knew all the difficulties
to be overcome, and after some hard contentious, but happy gained
the field battles Voelkerschaften from the Garonne to the Pyrenees
close to surrender to the new Lord to determine.

The one goal that Caesar had to put the subjugation of Gaul, was hardly
noticeable exceptions in the main so far, as there is with the sword
to get settled. The other half of the work begun by Caesar was still far
from enough and the Germans do not involve any forced everywhere, the Rhine
as a border to recognize. Just now, in winter 698/99 (56/55) had at the
lower course of the river, up where the Romans were not yet vorgedrungen
a transfrontier once held. The German tribes of Usipeten and Tencterer
whose experiments in the field of Menapii over the Rhine to set has
already been mentioned, but were finally, the vigilance of their opponents
by an adjusted deduction deceptively on their own ships Menapii over
- a tremendous swarm, with the inclusion of women and children at 430,000
heads amount to have. Still camped it, it seems in the region of Nijmegen
and Kleve, but it was called that, the calls of the Celtic Patriot Party
Following in the interior of Gaul einzuruecken intended, and the
rumor was encouraged that their riders already flocked to the limits
loyalty touched. However, as a Caesar with his legions against them is
concerned, seemed to vielgeplagten Auswanderer not eager for new battles,
but willing, from the Romans to land and take it under their sovereignty
in peacetime as well. During darueber negotiated was increased in the
Roman commander on the suspicion that the Germans only to win time looking
up the tabs of them posted wiedereingetroffen were throngs. Whether the
same was founded or not, can not say, but encouraged by an attack,
despite the actual armistice an enemy squad took on its vanguard, and
bitterly suffered by the loss of sensitive, Caesar believed to be entitled
to any consideration of Peoples the eyes must be set.

As the next morning the princes and elders of the Germans, without their
prior knowledge undertaken to apologize attack, appeared in the Roman
camp, they were detained and the unsuspecting, bereft of their guide
to the amount of Roman army suddenly fall over. It was more of a manhunt
than a battle, which is not under the swords of the Romans fell, drowned
in the Rhine, almost exclusively at the time of the transfer case
detached units escaped the carnage and came back across the Rhine, where
they Sugambrer in its territory, it appears on the lip, instead of a free
grant. The procedure Caesars against these German immigrants in the
Senate was serious and just blame alone how little even the same can
be excused, the German attacks was thus driven by a frightening vigor.
But I reckon he was a preacher, all the same, every minute of his
life. As you say, it ain't any use to try to stop a thing like that. I
reckon if a child has got any particular bent, it was given to it; and
it's goin' against the grain, it's goin' against the law, to try to bend
it some other way. There's lots of good business men, Mr. Beaton, twenty
of 'em to every good preacher?"

"I imagine more than twenty," said Beaton, amused and touched through his
curiosity as to what the old man was driving at by the quaint simplicity
of his speculations.

"Father ever come to the city?"

"No; he never has the time; and my mother's an invalid."

"Oh! Brothers and sisters?"

"Yes; we're a large family."

"I lost two little fellers--twins," said Dryfoos, sadly. "But we hain't
ever had but just the five. Ever take portraits?"

"Yes," said Beaton, meeting this zigzag in the queries as seriously as
the rest. "I don't think I am good at it."

Dryfoos got to his feet. "I wish you'd paint a likeness of my son. You've
seen him plenty of times. We won't fight about the price, don't you be
afraid of that."

Beaton was astonished, and in a mistaken way he was disgusted. He saw
that Dryfoos was trying to undo Mrs. Mandel's work practically, and get
him to come again to his house; that he now conceived of the offence
given him as condoned, and wished to restore the former situation. He
knew that he was attempting this for Christine's sake, but he was not the
man to imagine that Dryfoos was trying not only to tolerate him, but to
like him; and, in fact, Dryfoos was not wholly conscious himself of this
end. What they both understood was that Dryfoos was endeavoring to get at
Beaton through Conrad's memory; but with one this was its dedication to a
purpose of self sacrifice, and with the other a vulgar and shameless use
of it.

"I couldn't do it," said Beaton. "I couldn't think of attempting it."

"Why not?" Dryfoos persisted. "We got some photographs of him; he didn't
like to sit very well; but his mother got him to; and you know how he
looked."

"I couldn't do it--I couldn't. I can't even consider it. I'm very sorry.
I would, if it were possible. But it isn't possible."

"I reckon if you see the photographs once"

"It isn't that, Mr. Dryfoos. But I'm not in the way of that kind of thing
any more."

"I'd give any price you've a mind to name--"

"Oh, it isn't the money!" cried Beaton, beginning to lose control of
himself.

The old man did not notice him. He sat with his head fallen forward, and
his chin resting on his folded hands. Thinking of the portrait, he saw
Conrad's face before him, reproachful, astonished, but all gentle as it
looked when Conrad caught his hand that day after he struck him; he heard
him say, "Father!" and the sweat gathered on his forehead. "Oh, my God!"
he groaned. "No; there ain't anything I can do now."

Beaton did not know whether Dryfoos was speaking to him or not. He
started toward him. "Are you ill?"

"No, there ain't anything the matter," said the old man. "But I guess
I'll lay down on your settee a minute." He tottered with Beaton's help to
the aesthetic couch covered with a tiger-skin, on which Beaton had once
thought of painting a Cleopatra; but he could never get the right model.
As the old man stretched himself out on it, pale and suffering, he did
not look much like a Cleopatra, but Beaton was struck with his
effectiveness, and the likeness between him and his daughter; she would
make a very good Cleopatra in some ways. All the time, while these
thoughts passed through his mind, he was afraid Dryfoos would die. The
old man fetched his breath in gasps, which presently smoothed and
lengthened into his normal breathing. Beaton got him a glass of wine, and
after tasting it he sat up.

"You've got to excuse me," he said, getting back to his characteristic
grimness with surprising suddenness, when once he began to recover
himself. "I've been through a good deal lately; and sometimes it ketches
me round the heart like a pain."

In his life of selfish immunity from grief, Beaton could not understand
this experience that poignant sorrow brings; he said to himself that
Dryfoos was going the way of angina pectoris; as he began shuffling off
the tiger-skin he said: "Had you better get up? Wouldn't you like me to
call a doctor?"

"I'm all right, young man." Dryfoos took his hat and stick from him, but
he made for the door so uncertainly that Beaton put his hand under his
elbow and helped him out, and down the stairs, to his coupe.

"Hadn't you better let me drive home with you?" he asked.

"What?" said Dryfoos, suspiciously.

Beaton repeated his question.

"I guess I'm able to go home alone," said Dryfoos, in a surly tone, and
he put his head out of the window and called up "Home!" to the driver,
who immediately started off and left Beaton standing beside the
curbstone.


XIV.

Beaton wasted the rest of the day in the emotions and speculations which
Dryfoos's call inspired. It was not that they continuously occupied him,
but they broke up the train of other thoughts, and spoiled him for work;
a very little spoiled Beaton for work; he required just the right mood
for work. He comprehended perfectly well that Dryfoos had made him that
extraordinary embassy because he wished him to renew his visits, and he
easily imagined the means that had brought him to this pass. From what he
knew of that girl he did not envy her father his meeting with her when he
must tell her his mission had failed. But had it failed? When Beaton came
to ask himself this question, he could only perceive that he and Dryfoos
had failed to find any ground of sympathy, and had parted in the same
dislike with which they had met. But as to any other failure, it was
certainly tacit, and it still rested with him to give it effect. He could
go back to Dryfoos's house, as freely as before, and it was clear that he
was very much desired to come back. But if he went back it was also clear
that he must go back with intentions more explicit than before, and now
he had to ask himself just how much or how little he had meant by going
there. His liking for Christine had certainly not increased, but the
charm, on the other hand, of holding a leopardess in leash had not yet
palled upon him. In his life of inconstancies, it was a pleasure to rest
upon something fixed, and the man who had no control over himself liked
logically enough to feel his control of some one else. The fact cannot
other wise be put in terms, and the attraction which Christine Dryfoos
had for him, apart from this, escapes from all terms, as anything purely
and merely passional must. He had seen from the first that she was a cat,
and so far as youth forecasts such things, he felt that she would be a
shrew. But he had a perverse sense of her beauty, and he knew a sort of
life in which her power to molest him with her temper could be reduced to
the smallest proportions, and even broken to pieces. Then the
consciousness of her money entered. It was evident that the old man had
mentioned his millions in the way of a hint to him of what he might
reasonably expect if he would turn and be his son-in-law. Beaton did not
put it to himself in those words; and in fact his cogitations were not in
words at all. It was the play of cognitions, of sensations, formlessly
tending to the effect which can only be very clumsily interpreted in
language. But when he got to this point in them, Beaton rose to
magnanimity and in a flash of dramatic reverie disposed of a part of
Dryfoos's riches in placing his father and mother, and his brothers and
sisters, beyond all pecuniary anxiety forever. He had no shame, no
scruple in this, for he had been a pensioner upon others ever since a
Syracusan amateur of the arts had detected his talent and given him the
money to go and study abroad. Beaton had always considered the money a
loan, to be repaid out of his future success; but he now never dreamt of
repaying it; as the man was rich, he had even a contempt for the notion
of repaying him; but this did not prevent him from feeling very keenly
the hardships he put his father to in borrowing money from him, though he
never repaid his father, either. In this reverie he saw himself
sacrificed in marriage with Christine Dryfoos, in a kind of admiring
self-pity, and he was melted by the spectacle of the dignity with which
he suffered all the lifelong trials ensuing from his unselfishness. The
fancy that Alma Leighton came bitterly to regret him, contributed to
soothe and flatter him, and he was not sure that Margaret. Vance did not
suffer a like loss in him.

There had been times when, as he believed, that beautiful girl's high
thoughts had tended toward him; there had been looks, gestures, even
words, that had this effect to him, or that seemed to have had it; and
Beaton saw that he might easily construe Mrs. Horn's confidential appeal
to him to get Margaret interested in art again as something by no means
necessarily offensive, even though it had been made to him as to a master
of illusion. If Mrs. Horn had to choose between him and the life of good
works to which her niece was visibly abandoning herself, Beaton could not
doubt which she would choose; the only question was how real the danger
of a life of good works was.

As he thought of these two girls, one so charming and the other so
divine, it became indefinitely difficult to renounce them for Christine
Dryfoos, with her sultry temper and her earthbound ideals. Life had been
so flattering to Beaton hitherto that he could not believe them both
finally indifferent; and if they were not indifferent, perhaps he did not
wish either of them to be very definite. What he really longed for was
their sympathy; for a man who is able to walk round quite ruthlessly on
the feelings of others often has very tender feelings of his own, easily
lacerated, and eagerly responsive to the caresses of compassion. In this
frame Beaton determined to go that afternoon, though it was not Mrs.
Horn's day, and call upon her in the hope of possibly seeing Miss Vance
alone. As he continued in it, he took this for a sign and actually went.
It did not fall out at once as he wished, but he got Mrs. Horn to talking
again about her niece, and Mrs. Horn again regretted that nothing could
be done by the fine arts to reclaim Margaret from good works.

"Is she at home? Will you let me see her?" asked Beacon, with something
of the scientific interest of a physician inquiring for a patient whose
symptoms have been rehearsed to him. He had not asked for her before.

"Yes, certainly," said Mrs. Horn, and she went herself to call Margaret,
and she did not return with her. The girl entered with the gentle grace
peculiar to her; and Beaton, bent as he was on his own consolation, could
not help being struck with the spiritual exaltation of her look. At sight
of her, the vague hope he had never quite relinquished, that they might
be something more than aesthetic friends, died in his heart. She wore
black, as she often did; but in spite of its fashion her dress received a
nun-like effect from the pensive absence of her face. "Decidedly,"
thought Beaton, "she is far gone in good works."

But he rose, all the same, to meet her on the old level, and he began at
once to talk to her of the subject he had been discussing with her aunt.
Even then, they had the Menapii on the right bank situated away part of
their territory, and it was to foresee that they would make the
attempt, even on the left to fix.

Between Cologne and Mainz are also gathered and threatened suebische pile
in the opposite lying Keltengau Treviri as the uninvited guests to
appear. Finally, the area became the eastern clans of the Celts, the
disputable setting and numerous Helvetie always discourages the Germans
hit, so that the Helvetie that may already be approved by the reverse
of its settlers from the lost territory in the north of Rheine on
population suffered, moreover by fixing Ariovist in the field of
Sequaner, a completely isolated from their fellow tribe went forward,
took the desperate resolve their former territory voluntarily to
clear the Germans west of Jura and spacious and fruitful seats and
possibly also the inner Hegemanie in Gaul to win - a plan that
already during the invasion kimbrischen taken some of their districts
and had tried execute.

The Rauraker whose territory (Basel and the southern Alsace) in a
similar way was threatened, and the remains of Boier which have
already converted from the Germans were forced back to her hometown
to return, and now umherirrten unsteady, and other smaller tribes
represented Helvetia Community with the matter.

Already 693 (61) were grazing their squad over the Jura and even
in the Roman province, the Awakening itself could not long be
delayed; inevitable then Germanic settlers moved into the abandoned
by their defenders important landscape between the soil and the
lake .

From sources to the Rhine to the Atlantic Ocean, the German tribes on the
move, the whole line of the Rhine threatened them, there was a moment
like Alamannen and because the franc is about the declining empire in the
Caesar threw, and now seemed like the Celts ebendas into the works
set to be what half a millennium later against the Romans succeeded.

Among these ratios met the new governor Gaius Caesar in spring 696
(58) in the Narbonensischen Gaul, which to his original, which
Diesseits Gaul besides Istria and Dalmatia comprehensive governorship
decision by the Senate had been added.

His office, which he first five (until the end of 700 54), then in the
year 699 (55) for further five years (until the end of 705 49) was taken
over, gave him the right to ten sub propraetorischem rank of
commander to be appointed, and -- at least according to his
interpretation - from this world, especially in Gaul numerous citizen
population of the area after him obeying his legions discretion to
supplement or even create new ones.

The army, which he took over the two provinces, consisted mainly
of people from four feet and trained kriegsgewohnten legions, the
seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth, or a maximum of 24,000 men, which
then, as usual, the subjects hinzutraten quotas.

Cavalry and light were also represented by riders from Spain and numidische,
Cretan, archers and Balearic slingers. Caesar's bar, the elite of
metropolitan Democracy, contained not a few useless, young men make valid
individual officers, as Publius Crassus, the younger son of the old
political allies of Caesar, and Titus Labienus, the principal of democracy
as a loyal aide to the Forum the battlefield was followed. Certain
orders Caesar had not received, for the insight, and they were brave
in the circumstances. Also here was completed, which the Senate had
failed, and, above all, the power of the German Voelkerwanderung
inhibiting.

Ebenjetzt began with the German and closely intertwined for many years
prepared Helvetic invasion.

To the abandoned Huetten not to treat the Germans, and to himself
to make return impossible, had the Helvetie their cities and hamlets
burned and their long Wagenzuege with women, children and the best
part of Fahrnis loaded, arrived from all sides forth in Genava on
Leman (Geneva), where they and their comrades at 28 ^ 13 March this
year had given rendezvous.

After her own count, the total mass of 368,000 heads, of which
approximately the fourth part been able to bear arms.

The Jura Mountains, from the Rhine to the Rhone reckend only the Swiss
countryside to the west almost completely closed and its narrow
parade for the passage of such a caravan were equally ill-suited
as well for the defense, about the Fuehrer had decided, in a southerly
direction to avoid and pave the way to the west is due to open,
where between the southwest and the highest part of the Jura and
the Savoy mountains near today's Fort de l'Ecluse the Rhone River
through the mountain ranges has.

Solo on the right bank are the rocks and chasms so hard to the river
that only a small, easy to block the path of left and Sequaner, which this
bank belonged to Helvetia with ease the passport was embarrassed. They
made it before, above the breakthrough of the Rhone on the left
bank ALLOBROGES ueberzugehen to continue stromabwaerts, where the
Rhone in the layer occurs, again the right to win and then after
the plane to move west of Gaul, there was a fruitful Canton of
Santon (Saintonge, the Valley of the Charente) on Atlantic ocean
of the walkers to their new residence chosen.

This march, where he left the bank entered the Rhone, through Roman
territory, and Caesar, do not mean the imposition of western Gaul Helvetie
liked to have been firmly committed to them not to permit passage.
With legions of its four, three away from Aquileia, though he militia
of the province beyond aufbot quickly, it seemed hardly possible with
such a small team the countless swarm the Celts Uebergang over the
Rhone, from its withdrawal from the Leman in Geneva to on her breakthrough
at a distance of more than three German miles, to deny. Caesar, however,
won through negotiations with the Helvetie, the transition over the
river and march through the ALLOBROGES happy in a peaceful manner puts
had a deadline of fuenfzehn days, which was used to Rhonebruecke at
Genava (Geneva) and cancel the southern bank of the Rhone River through
a nearly four-mile German enemies to hide the block - it was the first
application of the Romans later in such immense scale system using a
single chain by ramparts and ditches are related compound walls, the
imperial frontier Close military. The attempts of the Helvetie on
barges or through fords at various points the other side to win in
these lines from the Romans and the frustrated happy Helvetie
forced, by the Rhone Uebergang abzustehen.

On the other hand, the Romans gave the hostile party in Gaul, at the
Helvetia a powerful reinforcement hoped to receive, including
Haeduer Dumnorix, the brother and Divitiacus in his Gau like this
one at the head of the Roman as its at the top of the national
party, Durchmarsch them by Jurapaesse and the territory of the
Sequaner.

This is to prohibit the Romans had no legal reason alone it was for them
in the Helvetian Heerzug other and higher interests at stake than the
question of the formal integrity of the Rome region - interests that could
only be maintained if Caesar, instead, like all governor of the
Senate, even as Marius did to the humble task of guarding the border
to restrict, at the head of a respectable army, the former imperial
frontiers.

Caesar was not captain of the Senate, but of the state: he staggered not.
Immediately out of Genava he had in his own person and go to Italy with
his own speed, the three kantonnierenden there as well as two newly
recruits legions exciting.

These troops, he united with the Genava in the Corps and exceeded with
a total power of the Rhone. His unexpected appearance in the areas of
Haeduer naturally daselbst brought straight back into the Roman party
to the regiment, which is due to the catering was not indifferent.

The Helvetie he employs, the Saone and to pass out of the territory Sequaner
in the Haeduer einzuruecken; what they still standing on the left
Saoneufer, including the Corps of Tigoriner, promised by the rapidly
penetrate Roman lifted and destroyed.

The bulk of the train, however, was already on the right bank of
the river on set; Caesar followed them and puts the Uebergang, the
hulking train Helvetie in the twenty days to complete can not be
had, in twenty-four hours.

The Helvetie through this transition of the Roman army over the
river prevented their march westward direction, suggested the
direction to the north, without doubt in the assumption that Caesar
would not dare to give them far into the interior of Gaul to follow
it, and the intention, if he had them off to rejoin her true goal
in hand.

Fuenfzehn days the Roman army marched into the distance about a mile
from the German enemy behind the same since his heels is heftend and
at a favorable moment, hoping the enemy's army, under the conditions
of victory to attack and destroy. With this moment was not as burdensome,
the Helvetic caravan einherzog, the guide knew a walkthrough case
to prevent and showed how to deal with plenty of stores, so by their
spies of each operation in the Roman camp rigorous informed.

On the other hand, the Romans began to lack the necessities to suffer,
particularly as the Helvetie from the distant and the Saone river
transport stops.

The absence of the promised infusion Haeduern from which these First showing
embarrassment, aroused even more suspicion, as both armies are
still in their areas are herumbewegten.

It also showed the handsome, nearly 4000 Roman cavalry horses counting
totally unreliable - which is certainly understandable, since almost all
from the same Celtic chivalry, especially the riders of Haeduer under
the command of the well-known enemy Dumnorix Roemer and Caesar
himself was even more than they are hostages because soldiers had
taken over.

They had good reason to believe that a defeat that set them apart from
the much weaker Helvetian cavalry suffered by themselves brought
about, and that through them the enemy of all incidents in the Roman
camp was taught.

Caesar's situation was worrying in tiresome it clearly came to
light, which even the Haeduern, despite their formal alliance with
Rome and to Rome to special interests that tend Gaus, the Celtic
Patriot Party has managed, what should it be, when you're in the
brewing landscape itself deeper and deeper hineinwagte and the
connections are more and more distant?

Just moved the armies of the capital of the Haeduer, Bibracte
(Autun), in moderate distance passed, Caesar decided to place this
important deal with gewaffneter hand to conquer before the march
into the land continued, and it is perhaps possible that he over
all intention of pursuing further abzustehen and Bibracte be fixed.

Solo because he desist from pursuing, turned against Bibracte thought
the Helvetie that Romans to flee prison made, and attacked them
to now.

More Caesar had not requested. In two parallel Huegelreihen the two armies
on the Celts began the battle, blasting the advanced level in the Roman
cavalry apart and ran to the hill on the slope of the Roman legions
positioned, but have had here before Caesars Veterans soft.

As to the Romans, pursuing their advantage, now turn to the level hinabstiegen,
the Celts went back against it and one Celtic zurueckgehaltenes
Corps at the same time she took in the flank. The latter was the reserve
of the Roman column entgegengeworfen attack, they urged the same of the
main mass of the luggage and the wagons, where it was aufgerieben. Even
the bulk of the Swiss train was finally brought to the course and forced
the withdrawal in an easterly direction to take - the opposite of those
in which she led her train. Helvetie of the plan, on the Atlantic ocean
is to establish new residences, this day was thwarted and the arbitrariness
of Helvetie survived the winner, but there was an even hotter for the
winners have been. Caesar, the cause was his officer corps not to be
trusted completely, had to begin all officers horses away to the need
to stand with him thoroughly to make clear, in fact, would the battle,
the Romans had said they lost, probably the destruction of the
Roman Armed Forces have achieved. The Roman troops were too exhausted,
in order to overcome strong track alone following the publication of Caesar
that he had all the support would Helvetie how they themselves as
enemies of the deal will Roemer, was where the army was defeated,
first in the Gau of Lingonen (around Langres), denied her any
support, and all intake and robbed of their baggage and burdened
by the mass of non kampffaehigen Trossen, they probably had the
Roman commander to subjugate.

The lot of the vanquished was relatively mild.

The homeless Boiern were instructed Haeduer in residences within
their territory, and this settlement overcome the enemies in the midst
of the most powerful Kettengaue did almost the services of a Roman colony.
The Helvetia and the Raurakern yet other, slightly more than one third
of the extended team, were of course in their former territory returned.
The same has been incorporated the Roman province, but the inhabitants
of the Alliance with Rome under favorable conditions allowed for under
Roman sovereignty in the upper limit of the Rhine against the Germans to
defend. Only the southwestern tip of the Helvetian Gaus was founded by the
Romans in immediate possession and later here in the charming shores
of the Leman, the ancient Celts Noviodunum City (now Nyon) into a Roman
frontier fortress which Julian Reiter Colony ^ 14, converted. ---
------------------------------------------------ ^ 13 According to the
unadjusted calendar. After the viable rectification, however, this by no
means confined to sufficiently reliable data, this day is the 16th April
of the Julian calendar. ^ 14 Julia Equestris, where the last epithet to
grasp, as in other colonies of the Caesars name sextanorum, decimanorum,
etc. There were Celtic or German rider Caesars, which, of course under the
grant of the Roman or Latin citizens but the law, landless received here.
---------------------------------------------- --- On the Upper So was
the threat of invasion by the Germans and also prevented the anti-Roman
party among the Celts humiliated. Even in the Middle, where the Germans
prior years were transferred and in Gaul with the competitive power of
the Roman daily Ariovist continue to handle, had been similarly
durchgegriffen, and easily was the reason for Bruche found. In comparison
with the Ariovist of them threatened or already imposed this yoke liked
the bigger part of the Celts now the Roman supremacy seem the lesser evil
and the minority, in their hatred Roemer stated, had at least silent.
An under Roman influence, held the council of the central Gaul Keltenstaemme
requested on behalf of the Celtic nation, the Roman commander to assist
them against the Germans. Caesar went on the matter. On his initiative,
the Haeduer the payment of the agreed to pay tributes to Ariovist and
demanded the hostages asked back, and since Ariovist because of this
breach of contract the client attacked in Rome, Caesar which took the
initiative to work with him in direct negotiations to occur and, unless
the return of the hostages and the promise, with the Haeduern peace to
keep, namely to require that Ariovist of being made, no more Germans
on the Rhine follow.

The German captain replied in the Roman Vollgefuehl equal rights. He
was the northern Gaul as good after martial law untertaenig become
like the Romans, the South, as it does not prevent the Romans from
the ALLOBROGES tribute to, so they should also not defend him, his
subjects should be taxed.

In late openings secret, it became apparent that the prince of the
Roman ratio was well acquainted: he mentioned the calls to him from
Rome, which had come, Caesar out of the way to premises, and offered,
if Caesar his northern Gaul purposes him on the other hand, to
obtain the dominion over Italy to help - like him the Hader party
of the Celtic nation entering Gaul had been opened, so it seemed
from the Party of Italian Hader fastening his reign daselbst expected.

For centuries, the Romans had against this completely equal language
of their autonomy and gruff and inconsiderate expressing power not
run, as they are now by the German Heerkoenig heard: Kurzweg he
refused to come, when the Roman captain after the Klientelfuersten
in traditional exercise ansann him, before him to appear personally.

So it was necessary, not to hesitate: once broke against Caesar at
Ariovist.

A panic terror seized his troops, especially his officers as they
should be, with the fourteen years since not signed and sealed key German
crowds came to be measured - in Caesar's camp seemed tiefgesunkene
the Roman manners and breeding of war itself and to claim desertion
and mutiny cause to want to.

Only the captain, he declared, if necessary, with the tenth legion alone
against the enemy to draw not only knew of such honor this warning,
but by the warlike emulation also to the other Regiments of the
eagles and to capture something of its own energy to the troops
einzuhauchen.

Without them time to leave, to reflect, he leads in rapid marches
on and it was happy Ariovist in the occupation of sequanischen
capital Vesontio (Mizzen ‡ on) before.

A personal meeting between the two captains, which took place on
Ariovist desire seemed only an attempt against Caesar person to be
covered between the two Zwingherren Gaul could only decide the
weapons.

Temporarily, the war came to standing up. At the bottom of Alsace, for
example in the region of Mulhouse, a mile from the German Rhine ^
15, the two armies camped near each other, until it Ariovist
succeeded, with his very superior power in the Roman camp
vorbeimarschierend to him in the back to and the Romans from its
base and cut off their supplies.

Caesar tried from his embarrassing position by a battle to liberate;
alone Ariovist she disagreed.

The Roman commander was nothing left, when in spite of its low strength,
the movement of the enemy and its compounds to imitate it again
to win that he had two legions at the enemies and go beyond the
camp of the Germans did take a position, while four in the former
camp behind.

Ariovist because he saw the Romans divided, tried a storm on their
smaller stock; alone Roemer beat him.

Under the impression of this success was the whole Roman army to attack
demonstrated, and even the Germans were in battle order on in a long
line, each tribe for itself, behind, in order to escape more
difficult, the trucks of the army with the baggage and the women.

The right wing of the Romans under Caesar's own leadership fell
rapidly at the enemy and drove him before him, the same was the
right wing of the Germans.

Still focused on the same scale, only the tactics of the reserves,
decided, like so many others struggle against barbarians, it also
against the Germans in favor of the Romans, and their third line,
which Publius Crassus sent to help in time, presented on the left
wing the back and forth battle that was decided the victory.

Then he said, abruptly, "Mr. March, how
would you like to take this thing off my hands?"

"I don't understand, exactly," March began; but of course he understood
that Dryfoos was offering to let him have 'Every Other Week' on some
terms or other, and his heart leaped with hope.

The old man knew he understood, and so he did not explain. He said: "I am
going to Europe, to take my family there. The doctor thinks it might do
my wife some good; and I ain't very well myself, and my girls both want
to go; and so we're goin'. If you want to take this thing off my hands, I
reckon I can let you have it in 'most any shape you say. You're all
settled here in New York, and I don't suppose you want to break up, much,
at your time of life, and I've been thinkin' whether you wouldn't like to
take the thing."

The word, which Dryfoos had now used three times, made March at last
think of Fulkerson; he had been filled too full of himself to think of
any one else till he had mastered the notion of such wonderful good
fortune as seemed about falling to him. But now he did think of
Fulkerson, and with some shame and confusion; for he remembered how, when
Dryfoos had last approached him there on the business of his connection
with 'Every Other Week,' he had been very haughty with him, and told him
that he did not know him in this connection. He blushed to find how far
his thoughts had now run without encountering this obstacle of etiquette.

"Have you spoken to Mr. Fulkerson?" he asked.

"No, I hain't. It ain't a question of management. It's a question of
buying and selling. I offer the thing to you first. I reckon Fulkerson
couldn't get on very well without you."

March saw the real difference in the two cases, and he was glad to see
it, because he could act more decisively if not hampered by an obligation
to consistency. "I am gratified, of course, Mr. Dryfoos; extremely
gratified; and it's no use pretending that I shouldn't be happy beyond
bounds to get possession of 'Every Other Week.' But I don't feel quite
free to talk about it apart from Mr. Fulkerson."

"Oh, all right!" said the old man, with quick offence.

March hastened to say: "I feel bound to Mr. Fulkerson in every way. He
got me to come here, and I couldn't even seem to act without him."

He put it questioningly, and the old man answered:

"Yes, I can see that. When 'll he be in? I can wait." But he looked
impatient.

"Very soon, now," said March, looking at his watch. "He was only to be
gone a moment," and while he went on to talk with Dryfoos, he wondered
why the old man should have come first to speak with him, and whether it
was from some obscure wish to make him reparation for displeasures in the
past, or from a distrust or dislike of Fulkerson. Whichever light he
looked at it in, it was flattering.

"Do you think of going abroad soon?" he asked.

"What? Yes--I don't know--I reckon. We got our passage engaged. It's on
one of them French boats. We're goin' to Paris."

"Oh! That will be interesting to the young ladies."

"Yes. I reckon we're goin' for them. 'Tain't likely my wife and me would
want to pull up stakes at our age," said the old man, sorrowfully.

"But you may find it do you good, Mr. Dryfoos," said March, with a
kindness that was real, mixed as it was with the selfish interest he now
had in the intended voyage.

"Well, maybe, maybe," sighed the old man; and he dropped his head
forward. "It don't make a great deal of difference what we do or we don't
do, for the few years left."

"I hope Mrs. Dryfoos is as well as usual," said March, finding the ground
delicate and difficult.

"Middlin', middlin'," said the old man. "My daughter Christine, she ain't
very well."

"Oh," said March. It was quite impossible for him to affect a more
explicit interest in the fact. He and Dryfoos sat silent for a few
moments, and he was vainly casting about in his thought for something
else which would tide them over the interval till Fulkerson came, when he
heard his step on the stairs.

"Hello, hello!" he said. "Meeting of the clans!" It was always a meeting
of the clans, with Fulkerson, or a field day, or an extra session, or a
regular conclave, whenever he saw people of any common interest together.
"Hain't seen you here for a good while, Mr. Dryfoos. The Tribune escaped
onto the market and urged the crowd to storm the town hall, as just the
right time nor the meeting was canceled.

The consul Piso, the champion of the oligarchy, the randomness of volume
fell into the hands, would be a victim of the Volkswut become, if not
admitted Gabinius about it and would come, not by his deeds untimely
outrage some success on the game to make the Consul would have exempted.
Meanwhile, the bitterness remained undiminished and the crowd was
always food in the new high cereal prices and the numerous, sometimes
very great rumors, for example, that Lucius Lucullus to him for
about Kriegfuehrung allocated funds partly in Rome zinsbar shows,
sometimes with the same praetor Quinctius Case of the People turned
to tried, that the Senate the "second Romulus," as one called Pompey,
the fate of the first ^ 2 Remember to prepare and so on.

Up came the day of the vote approached. Head to head urged the crowd stood
in the market; to the roofs were all building up, from where the
Rednerbuehne could be seen, with people covered.

All Members of the Senate had Gabinius the Interzession pledged: but the
roaring waves of the masses against all but silent on the single
Lucius Trebellius of the Senate and was sworn rather to die than
to soft.

When this interzedierte, broke immediately Gabinius the vote over his
Gesetzvorschlaege and asked the gathered people, with his reluctant
colleagues to follow suit, as once on Tiberius Gracchus' request on the
Octavius was procedural, which means it immediately to the horror of his
duties.

It was voted and the delivery of the voting tables began, when the
first seventeen counties, which came to reading, is for the amendment,
and the next the same affirmative vote the majority were moved
Trebellius, forgetting his oath, the faint Interzession back.

Tried in vain to the Tribune Otho to cause the least respected and
collegiality rather than a commander will want two elected; unsuccessfully
sought the hochbejahrte Quintus Catulus, the most respected man
in the Senate, his recent efforts indicate that sub-leaders are not
appointed by Mr.

Oberfeld but by the people will want. Otho could romp in which the crowd
did not even make themselves heard, which gave it Catulus Gabinius'
wohlberechnete courtesy, and listened in respectful silence the
crowd the words of the old, but she had lost no less.

The proposals were not just with all the clauses to the law unchanged
collected, but also what Pompey still in the coveted individual
NACHTRÄGLICH, immediately and fully approved. ---------------------
----------------------------------------- ^ 2 According to legend,
Romulus was king of the senators in pieces torn.
-------------------------------------------- ----------------- With
high-hopes you could see the two captains and Pompey Glabrio according
to their destinations off.

The grain prices have been following the legislation through the Gabin
immediately to the habitual sentences fallen: a proof, which hopes to the
great expedition and its glorious leader is picked up.

They were, as later told, not only met, but exceeded in three months
was the complete cleansing of the seas.

Since the wars of Hannibal, the Roman government with such energy that
occurred on the outside, opposite the flaccid and incapable of
managing the oligarchy, the military-democratic opposition to the shining
their profession to demonstrate the reins of government and to steer. The
same as unpatriotic clumsy attempts of the consul Piso, the
institutions of Pompey to suppress piracy in Gaul Narbonensischen
petty obstacles in the path to specify only increased the exasperation
of the residents against the oligarchy and their enthusiasm for
Pompey: a solely personal Dazwischenkunft prevented it that the
People's Assembly is not the consul of his duties Kurzweg horrified.

Meanwhile, on the Asian mainland, the confusion only become worse.
Glabrio, of Lucullus' body the command against Mithradates and
Tigran take over, was sitting in front Asia and had been through
several proclamations against the soldiers aufgestiftet Lucullus,
but the supreme command not begun, so that Lucullus was forced to
continue the same.

Against Mithradates was of course nothing happened and the Pontic Reiter
ungescheut and plunder with impunity in Bithynien and Cappadocia. With
the pirate war was also prompted by Pompey, with his army to Asia Minor
to go, nothing was more natural than him the supreme command in
the Ponto-Armenian wars to take over, which he himself has long
nachtrachtete.

Only the Democratic Party in Rome, informed the understandably
desires and not their general's guard, well, here to take the
initiative.

It is very likely that they had determined the Gabinius, Mithradatischen
the war and the pirates not necessarily both at the same time at Pompey,
but the former Glabrio to be transmitted, in any case, they are now
the exceptional position of the already allzumaechtigen commander want
to improve and perpetuate. Even Pompey himself behaved after his habit
is suffering, and perhaps he would be in effect after the execution of
the contract made him come home, if not all parties would be
unexpected incident occurred.

A certain Gaius Manilius, a wholly void and insignificant man, had served
as Volkstribun it through its awkward Gesetzvorschlaege also with
the aristocracy and democracy spoiled. In the hope, among the powerful
commander wings to salvage, that when he gave what he, as everybody knows
was ardently wished, but to ask is not married, he at the request
of residents, the governor Glabrio from Bithynien and Pontus, from
Cilicia Marcius Rex and dismiss these posts as well as the leadership
of the war in the east, as it seems in no particular time limit and
in any case with most of the free power, peace and Buendnis to
close, the proconsul of the seas and coasts are in addition to his
current office to take over (Early 688 66).

It was here once quite clear how the broken machine was Roman constitution,
since the legislative part of the initiative after each demagogues so low
and the decision-lot of immaturity in the hands, sometimes on the
most important management issues was covered.

Manil The proposal was not accepted the political parties, though he found
hardly any serious resistance. The democratic leader was on the same grounds
that they had forced the Gabin Act is to be liked, do not dare to join the
Manil even to resist, they sealed their indignation and their concerns
and spoke in public for the commander of democracy.

The moderate Optimat agreed to the request for the Manil because Gabin
after the law of resistance in any case was in vain and continue looking
men at that time recognized that the Senate for the right policy was to
Pompey, and preferably closer to the anticipated break in between
him and the Democrats him on their side hinueberzuziehen.

The men of the swing system finally blessed the day when they have thoughts
seem to have decided and could occur without having any of the parties
to spoil - it is significant that with the defense of Marcus Cicero
Manil application first entered the political Rednerbuehne.

Only the strict Optimat, Quintus Catulus at the top, showed at least color
and spoke against the proposal.

Course was the same with a unanimity to majority bordering on legislation
levied. Pompey won it on his earlier extensive Machtfuelle nor the
management of the main provinces of Asia Minor, so that within the
vast Roman frontiers barely a mark country gave to him would have not
obeyed, and the leadership of a war, which is, as Alexander Heerfahrt,
could probably tell where and when it started, but not where and
when to the fans.

Never still, since Rome was such violence in the hands of one man have
been united. The Gabin-Manil requests discharges the fight between the
Senate and the Popular Party, the front sixty-seven years Sempron
laws had begun. As the laws Sempron Revolution parties initially constituted
as a political opposition, it was the same with the-Gabin Manil
over from the opposition in the regiment, and as a great moment was
when the futile Interzession of Octavius, the first break in the
existing Constitution happened, so it was no less a significant
moment, as with the resignation of the last bulwark Trebellius
Senator Regiment collapsed.

On both sides it was probably felt, and even the souls flaccid Senator
twitched to death in this battle, but it ran but the feud in the
Constitution even do much and other meager way to the end as they
had begun.

One in every sense a noble young man had opened the Revolution, it was
decided by pertly intriguers and demagogues of the lowest blow. Other hand,
if the measured Optimat with resistance, even with a lost item to endure
serious defense had begun, it ends with the initiative on the right thumb,
grosswortiger with weakness and miserable Eidbruch. It was now achieved
what was once a bold dream was: the Senate had ceased to govern. But
if the old men who are still the first storms of the revolution saw
the words of the Gracchi had heard, that time and these are compared, they
found everything so changed now, the landscape and residents, state
law and war, farmed, life and custom, and most liked painful smile, who
is the ideals of Gracchenzeit compared with their realization. However,
such observations belongs to the past. For now and probably also for the
future was the overthrow of the aristocracy a fait accompli. The oligarchs
completely offset a military whose scattered pile yet another mass army,
but they no longer even keep the box, nor on his own account could
dare battle.

But by the old battle to end ran, while preparing a new itself: the
struggle of the two so far to overthrow the aristocratic constitution
allied powers, the citizens of democratic opposition and the
increasingly overwhelming Militaergewalt emerging.

Pompey 'exceptional position was already after Gabin, how much longer
the law Manil with a republican order incompatible. He was, as
even then the opponent with good reason, said the law does not Gabin to
Admiral, but the kingdom has been appointed regents, not with injustice,
he called one of the eastern Greeks trusted relationships "King of
Kings". If he dereinst, again victorious, and with increased fame, filled
with cash, with quick-witted and devoted troops returned from the
East, for the crown, the hand - who wanted to be him in the arm fall?
If some of the first commander of his time-tested and its legions of
Quintus Catulus the consular senators of proposed? Or designate Aedil
Gaius Caesar, the urban lot, whose eyes he just in his three hundred and
twenty pairs silbergeruesteten fencers geweidet had? Soon you will
be called Catulus, again on the rocks of the Capitol need to flee to the
freedom to save. It was not the fault of the Prophet, if the storm does
not, as he said, came from the east, but the fate, literally as he
felt it his words, to increase the devastating storm a few years later
from the Celtic Country heranfuehrte 4. Chapter Pompey and the East, we
have earlier seen how bleak the east on land and sea to the affairs of
Rome, when in the beginning of the year 687 (67) Pompey first tour of
the war against the pirates with almost full sovereignty over.

It started with him about the huge area allocated in thirteen
districts to share the same and every one of his sub-leaders to be
transferred to daselbst ships and crews to prepare, scan the coasts
and the pirate boats raise or a colleague to chase into the yarn.

He even went with the best part of the existing ships of war, in which
the Rhodian again stands apart, early in the year in the lake and
cleaned first sizilischen, African and Sardinian waters, especially
the grain intake from these provinces to Italy back on track bring.

To cleaning up the Spanish and Gallic coasts are now provided under
the military.

It was on this occasion, the Consul Gaius Piso from Rome, which tried
to inhibit digging what Pompey 'legate Marcus Pomponius Gabin by
virtue of the law in the province Narbo organized - an unwise start,
the control and at the same time, the fair amount of bitterness
against the consul in the legal barriers to keep Pompey temporarily
appeared again in Rome.

When after forty days in the western basin of the Mediterranean shipping
everywhere was freed, and went with Pompey its sixtieth best cars on
to the eastern sea, initially under the Pre-and headquarters of
the piracy, the Lycian and Cilician water.

On the client of the approach of the Roman fleet disappeared not
only the Piratenkaehne everywhere from the open sea, and the strong
Lycian Antikragos festivals and Kragos arose, without serious
resistance.

More than the fear opened Pompey 'Mild wohlberechnete the gates of
this hard-to-access Seeburger. His predecessor had caught every pirate
cross stitch to leave, he gave no quarter and all concerns addressed
by name to the pre-made pirate boats with rowers generally unaccustomed
indulgence. Only the bold Cilician Seekoenige ventured a try, at least
their own waters with the weapons against the Romans to maintain after
their children and women and their rich treasures in the Taurus fled
Bergschloesser had expected the Roman fleet to the western border of
Cilicia, at the height of Korakesion. But Pompey 'wohlbemannte and with
all the war stuff probably send ships erfochten here a complete victory.
Without further obstacle he landed on it and began the Bergschloesser
by pirates to storms and to break, while he continued to give them even
as the price of freedom and subjugation of life to offer. Soon,
the large amount of it, in their castles and mountains a hopeless
war and continue bequemte to surrender. Nine days after Pompey in the
eastern sea appeared, was subjected to Cilicia and the war
to an end. The rapid overwhelmingness of piracy was a great relief, but
no great indeed: with the auxiliaries of the Roman state, the mass
were wasteful in posses been the Corsairs were able to measure as
little as the gangs of thieves united a great city with a well-police.
It was naive to make such a raid as a victory to celebrate. But compared
with the years of existence and the endless, daily continue spreading the
extension of the evil, it is understandable that the surprisingly
rapid overwhelmingness the dreaded pirates of the audience made
the biggest impression, more so because this is the first in a
sample of the Hand Regiment was centralized and the parties anxious
wait as to whether it will understand, better than the peer to
govern.

Against 400 ships and boats, including 90 actual war vehicles, have been
partly taken by Pompey, he sometimes delivered; throughout 1300 to be
pirates used vehicles and also addressed the reichgefuellten arsenals
and Zeughaeuser the Flibustier in flames to be. Of the 10,000 against
pirates were killed, over 20,000 live in the winner's hands dropped,
while Publius Clodius, the Flottenfuehrer of Cilicia in the Roman army,
and a lot of the pirates away, sometimes at home a long dead by
individuals believed to Pompey recovered freedom. In the summer
of 687 (67), three months after the start of the campaign, were trading
back and change their usual way and instead of the earlier famine
reigned in Italy abundance. A sullen interlude on the island of Crete
somewhat clouded, however, these pleasing success of Roman arms. There
was already the second year Quintus Metellus, employs, which has already
resulted in significant repression of the island to complete than Pompey
in the East appeared. A collision was close, because after Gabin Act
extended Pompey 'command concurrently with that of Metellus to the whole
Ianggestreckte, but nowhere more than twenty English miles wide
island, but Pompey was so considerate, they would not be his
sub-commander to be transferred.

Solo still reluctant Cretan communities, subject to their fellow countrymen
by Metellus with the most cruel severity had to take responsibility
on the other hand, see and hear the mild conditions, which Pompey to him
resulting in the southern towns of Asia Minor to the habit, preferring
to their total subjection to Pompey entered, they also in Pamphylia,
where he also was in receipt of their envoys and their legates
Lucius Octavius his mitgab to Metellus the conclusion of contracts
and to the cities to take over. collegial processes, this was
certainly not alone, the formal was quite right on the side of
Pompey and Metellus offenbarsten in the wrong when he, the contract
between the cities with Pompey ignoring completely the same as the
enemy continued to be treated.

Octavius protested in vain, in vain he cried, as he himself had come without
troops from Achaia with the following subdivision of Mr. Pompey, Lucius
Sisenna, herbei; Metellus, neither nor Octavius Sisenna is bekuemmernd,
besieged and took Eleutherna Lappa assault, where Octavius himself captured
and abused dismissed, caught him with the Cretans, but the executioner
has been passed.

So it came to formal Sisennas skirmishes between troops, headed after death,
this guide is presented Octavius, and those of Metellus, even as those
after zurueckkommandiert Achaia were Octavius sat in communion with the
Cretans Aristion the war continued, and Hierapytna, where both are
considered by Metellus was only after the persistent opposition defeated.
In fact, so did the zealous Optimat Oberfeld Metellus against the Lord
of the democracy in their own hands the formal civil war started and
it bears witness to the indescribable destruction of the Roman
Staatsverhaeltnisse that these appearances led to nothing more than a
bitter correspondence between the two generals, a few years later again
peacefully and even "friendly" sat side by side in the Senate. Pompeius
was during these operations in Cilicia, for the next year, as it seemed,
a campaign Preparing against Kretenser or rather against Metellus, in
fact, the winks harrend of him to intervene in the affairs of the
thoroughly confused small Asian continent summoned. What of Lucullus'
army after the losses and the adoption of Fimbrianischen legions had
left, stood idle at the top Halys in the landscape of Trokmer on
the border of the Pontic region.

The supreme command led meanwhile still Lucullus, as his appointed
successor Glabrio continued in Asia on the front line. Also inactive
were stored in Cilicia, the three of Quintus Marcius Rex commands legions.
The Pontic area was completely in the hands of King Mithradates
the individual men and communities, which the Romans had attached
itself, like the city of Eupatoria, with cruel rigor Buess let their
waste.

Become a serious offensive against the Romans exceeded the kings of the
East does not, whether they are nothing in their plan was, it was what was
also claimed that Pompey 'landing in Cilicia and the kings Mithradates
Tigran prompted by further action abzustehen .

Pompey even faster than it might have hoped, Manil realized the law
in his quiet nourished hopes: Glabrio and Rex were removed and the
governorship-Pontus and Cilicia Bithynien is standing with the
troops and the leadership of the Ponto-Armenian War, together with
the power, with the Dynastes of the East in its sole discretion
War, Peace and Buendnis to make Pompey to take over.

About the prospect of honor and so forgot Spolí Pompey a punishment like
the ill and his thrifty Lorbeerblaetter envious huetenden Optimat,
gave the train of Crete and the distant pursuit of pirates and some
also to support its fleet of attack, against which he kings of
Pontus and Armenia drafted.

But he lost over this country to war again and again new uplifting
her head no piracy completely out of sight. Before he left Asia (691
63), he still daselbst the necessary ships against pirates repair, at his
request was the following year in Italy a similar measure adopted
and the necessary amount approved by the Senate.

It went on, the coast riders with small crews and squadrons to cover. If
you also like to mention the later expeditions against Kypros 696 (58) and
against Egypt 699 (55) prove that piracy was not quite Lord, so has
the same but after the expedition of Pompey in all political crises
Wechselfaellen and Rome never again lift up their heads and so totally
the Romans on the sea ousting, as the regiment of rotten oligarchy had
happened. The few months before the start of the Asia Minor campaign is
still left, were honored by the new Oberfeld Lord with hard activity to
diplomatic and military preparations used.

It was sent to Mithradates, to more customers, than a serious attempt at
mediation. On Pontic court hoped that the king of the Parthians, Phraates
through the last major success, the allies of Rome had taken them
to the entrance to the Ponto-Armenian Buendnis be determined. Counter
Roman messengers went to the court of Ktesiphon, and give them the
internal turmoil came to the aid of the Armenian ruler house torn.

Of the great King Tigran same son had opposed his father, outraged,
be it that the death of the elderly do not want to wait, whether
the same suspicion that has several of his brothers had their lives,
it is the only chance of salvation in the open indignation had seen.

Overcome by his father, he was distinguished with a number of Armenians
in the courtyard of the Arsakiden fled there and intrigued against
the father.

It was part of his work that Phraates the reward for the accession to
it by both sides was necessary to secure possession of Mesopotamia,
rather from the hands of the Romans adopted and the terms of Lucullus
with Euphratgrenze contract with Pompey renewed, even it was received,
jointly with the Romans against Armenia to operate.
By William Dean Howells


Part I.

[NOTE: Several chapter heading numerals are out of order or missing in
this 1899 edition, however the text is all present in the three volumes.
D.W.]


I.

"You need the rest," said the Business End; "and your wife wants you to
go, as well as your doctor. Besides, it's your Sabbatical year, and you,
could send back a lot of stuff for the magazine."

"Is that your notion of a Sabbatical year?" asked the editor.

"No; I throw that out as a bait to your conscience. You needn't write a
line while you're gone. I wish you wouldn't for your own sake; although
every number that hasn't got you in it is a back number for me."

"That's very nice of you, Fulkerson," said the editor. "I suppose you
realize that it's nine years since we took 'Every Other Week' from
Dryfoos?"

"Well, that makes it all the more Sabbatical," said Fulkerson. "The two
extra years that you've put in here, over and above the old style
Sabbatical seven, are just so much more to your credit. It was your right
to go, two years ago, and now it's your duty. Couldn't you look at it in
that light?"

"I dare say Mrs. March could," the editor assented. "I don't believe she
could be brought to regard it as a pleasure on any other terms."

"Of course not," said Fulkerson. "If you won't take a year, take three
months, and call it a Sabbatical summer; but go, anyway. You can make up
half a dozen numbers ahead, and Tom, here, knows your ways so well that
you needn't think about 'Every Other Week' from the time you start till
the time you try to bribe the customs inspector when you get back. I can
take a hack at the editing myself, if Tom's inspiration gives out, and
put a little of my advertising fire into the thing." He laid his hand on
the shoulder of the young fellow who stood smiling by, and pushed and
shook him in the liking there was between them. "Now you go, March! Mrs.
Fulkerson feels just as I do about it; we had our outing last year, and
we want Mrs. March and you to have yours. You let me go down and engage
your passage, and--"

"No, no!" the editor rebelled. "I'll think about it;" but as he turned to
the work he was so fond of and so weary of, he tried not to think of the
question again, till he closed his desk in the afternoon, and started to
walk home; the doctor had said he ought to walk, and he did so, though he
longed to ride, and looked wistfully at the passing cars.

He knew he was in a rut, as his wife often said; but if it was a rut, it
was a support too; it kept him from wobbling: She always talked as if the
flowery fields of youth lay on either side of the dusty road he had been
going so long, and he had but to step aside from it, to be among the
butterflies and buttercups again; he sometimes indulged this illusion,
himself, in a certain ironical spirit which caressed while it mocked the
notion. They had a tacit agreement that their youth, if they were ever to
find it again, was to be looked for in Europe, where they met when they
were young, and they had never been quite without the hope of going back
there, some day, for a long sojourn. They had not seen the time when they
could do so; they were dreamers, but, as they recognized, even dreaming
is not free from care; and in his dream March had been obliged to work
pretty steadily, if not too intensely. He had been forced to forego the
distinctly literary ambition with which he had started in life because he
had their common living to make, and he could not make it by writing
graceful verse, or even graceful prose. He had been many years in a
sufficiently distasteful business, and he had lost any thought of leaving
it when it left him, perhaps because his hold on it had always been
rather lax, and he had not been able to conceal that he disliked it. At
any rate, he was supplanted in his insurance agency at Boston by a
subordinate in his office, and though he was at the same time offered a
place of nominal credit in the employ of the company, he was able to
decline it in grace of a chance which united the charm of congenial work
with the solid advantage of a better salary than he had been getting for
work he hated. It was an incredible chance, but it was rendered
appreciably real by the necessity it involved that they should leave
Boston, where they had lived all their married life, where Mrs. March as
well as their children was born, and where all their tender and familiar
ties were, and come to New York, where the literary enterprise which
formed his chance was to be founded.

It was then a magazine of a new sort, which his business partner had
imagined in such leisure as the management of a newspaper syndicate
afforded him, and had always thought of getting March to edit. The
magazine which is also a book has since been realized elsewhere on more
or less prosperous terms, but not for any long period, and 'Every Other
Week' was apparently--the only periodical of the kind conditioned for
survival. It was at first backed by unlimited capital, and it had the
instant favor of a popular mood, which has since changed, but which did
not change so soon that the magazine had not time to establish itself in
a wide acceptance. It was now no longer a novelty, it was no longer in
the maiden blush of its first success, but it had entered upon its second
youth with the reasonable hope of many years of prosperity before it. In
fact it was a very comfortable living for all concerned, and the Marches
had the conditions, almost dismayingly perfect, in which they had often
promised themselves to go and be young again in Europe, when they
rebelled at finding themselves elderly in America. Their daughter was
married, and so very much to her mother's mind that she did not worry
about her, even though she lived so far away as Chicago, still a wild
frontier town to her Boston imagination; and their son, as soon as he
left college, had taken hold on 'Every Other Week', under his father's
instruction, with a zeal and intelligence which won him Fulkerson's
praise as a chip of the old block. These two liked each other, and worked
into each other's hands as cordially and aptly as Fulkerson and March had
ever done. It amused the father to see his son offering Fulkerson the
same deference which the Business End paid to seniority in March himself;
but in fact, Fulkerson's forehead was getting, as he said, more
intellectual every day; and the years were pushing them all along
together.

Still, March had kept on in the old rut, and one day he fell down in it.
He had a long sickness, and when he was well of it, he was so slow in
getting his grip of work again that he was sometimes deeply discouraged.
His wife shared his depression, whether he showed or whether he hid it,
and when the doctor advised his going abroad, she abetted the doctor with
all the strength of a woman's hygienic intuitions. March himself
willingly consented, at first; but as soon as he got strength for his
work, he began to temporize and to demur. But both these oppositional
Velleitaeten the Senatsmajoritaet as the resistance of the minority
resultatlose show just so obvious that the regiment, like the residents
to the Senate, so now that the power transition and the Senate already
was not much more than a Monarch, but also for the absorption of
antimony archical elements used Councilor.

"No man," accused the followers of the toppled government, "is the
least out of the three, the rulers are omnipotent and ensure that
none remain unclear about it, the whole Senate is converted and
obeys the fields, and our generation will a reversal of things not
to experience. " They lived not in the Republic, but in the monarchy.

But when the steering on the state of the power was fully equipped, it
remained one of the actual regiment somehow separate policy area which
is easier to defend and difficult to conquer was: the regular election
officers of the jurors and the courts. That the latter is not directly
covered by the policy, but everywhere and especially in Rome from which
the dominant state mitbeherrscht spirit, is of itself clear. The elections
of officials, however, belongs by right to the actual state of the
regiment, alone in this same time significantly by extraordinary
officials or even titellose men was maintained and even the highest
officials ordinary if it is to the antimony archical party belonged
to the state machine in any sensible way groups could not, so the
ordinary officials declined more and more down to be cast as extras,
as well as just the opposition and almost of them with full rights
as powerless zeros designated their election so to demonstrations.

Thus, after the opposition of the actual battlefield was already entirely
suppressed, but the feud is still in the elections and the processes are
CONTINUING. The power lines do not bother to include here to stay
winners.

Regarding the elections, they had already in Luca for the next few years,
the lists of candidates with each other and found no funds left
unturned to ensure the agreed candidate through.

First election for the purpose of agitation she donated her gold. Annually
were Caesar and Pompey 'armies a large number of discharged soldiers to
leave to attend the voting in Rome to participate. Caesar himself took
care of Northern Italy made in as close to the election movements
to manage and monitor.

Nevertheless, the purpose was only very imperfectly achieved. For 699 (55),
although the Treaty of Luca accordingly, Pompey and Crassus consuls
to service and endure the only candidate of the opposition, Lucius
Domitian eliminated; alone this was only brought into open violence,
while Cato was wounded and others highly annoying vorfielen
appearances.

In the next Konsularwahlen for 700 (54) was even, all the efforts
of the rulers spite Domitian actually chosen, and even now whether
Cato won the bid to Praetur in him the year before to the annoyance
of all residents Caesars client Vatinius from the field had beaten.

In the elections for 701 (53) succeeded in the opposition, among other
candidates including those of the rulers so unwidersprechlich's
anger over Wahlumtriebe to show that, to the scandal of backsliding,
no different than they were let go.

These repeated and defeats the wicked Dynastes on the election battleground
fans partly be attributed to the frozen Unregierlichkeit machinery,
the unpredictable randomness of the choice of business, the attitude
of the middle class opposition, which many here, and the intervening
party status often strange crisscross Privatruecksichten, but the
main cause lies elsewhere .

The elections were, at that time much of the violence in the various
clubs, in which the aristocracy are grouped, and the corruption of
nature was the same in the comprehensive scale and with the greatest
order organized.

The same aristocracy, then, which was represented in the Senate,
also dominated the elections, but if it is in the Senate grollend
nachgab, worked here and they voted in secret and any accountability
to those in power necessarily opposed.

That the strict against the Penal klubbistischen Wahlumtriebe that Crassus
as consul 699 (55) through which residents could confirm the influence of
the nobility in this field was far from broke, to say and show the
election of the next years. Ebensogrosse difficulties made the rulers
of the jury courts. In its dermal decided in the same composition,
also next to the influential Senatsadel, primarily the middle class. The
fixing of a hochgegriffenen jurors through a census of Pompey 699
(55) applied for law is a remarkable proof that the opposition to
the rulers of their headquarters in the very middle class and had
the high finance here as everywhere is proved docile than this.

Nevertheless, the Republican Party here has not yet withdrawn all
ground and she was not tired, with political thriller Alan actions,
not the rulers themselves, but their most excellent tools to pursue.

This process of war was so lively run, than to come to in the indictment
of Senators Youth Business zukam and understandably under
these youths more than under the older Professional comrades nor
republican passion, fresh talent and bold aggressiveness was to be
found.

However, the courts are not free, if the rulers of Ernst did, they
dared so little like the Senate to refuse to obey. None of the opponents
from the opposition was so grim, almost proverbial Hasselager
prosecuted as Vatinius, by far the verwegenste and safe under strict
Pendant Caesar, but his Lord commanded, and he was in every charge
against him acquitted processes.

Indes indictments of men who like calvus Gaius Licinius Pollio and
Gaius Asinius the sword of the dialectic and the scourge of ridicule
to oscillate understood, failed their goal even if they failed, and
individual achievements were not enough.

Most certainly, they were over subordinate individuals away, alone, one of
the highest and hated by the followers of the Dynastes, the Consulate
Gabinius, was removed in this way. However, combined with the implacable
hatred of the aristocracy, to him the law on the management of
Seeraeuberkrieges awarded as little as disposable treatment of the
Senate during his Syrian governorship, Gabinius against the fury
of high finance, the opposite he was governor of Syria dared the
interests represented at the Provincial, and even the resentment
of Crassus, in which he surrender of the province had made spaciousness.

His only protection against all these enemies was Pompey, and this had
all the reason, its capabilities, Keck and loyal aide at any price
to defend, but here as everywhere, he does not use his power and
his clients to represent, as Caesar took the his: end 700 (54) the
jury found the Gabinius guilty of blackmail and sent him into exile.

In the whole were so in the areas of public elections and jury
courts, the rulers, which were shorter.

The factors, which is ruled, were less tangible and therefore harder to
terrorize or to corrupt than the direct organs of government and
administration. The violence Haber met here, especially in the national
elections, to the viscous force of the closed and Koterien grouped
oligarchy, which is still not finished, if it has fallen regiment, and
thus harder to break the more they concealed occurs.

They also met here, including jurors in the courts, to the reluctance
of the middle classes against the new, monarchic Regiment, with all the
embarrassment arising from them nor could eliminate.

They suffered from both areas a number of defeats, of which the
election victory of the opposition, only the value of demonstrations
had, since the rulers of the resources owned and used at any unpopular
officials actually cancel the opposition criminal convictions but
sensitive way they sound agents robbed.

As things stood, could the rulers of the people's election and the
courts jurors neither to eliminate nor sufficient to dominate the
opposition and how much they are confined here was claimed up to a
certain extent, but the battle space.

Even more difficult but it has , of the opposition in a field to
meet, they always eager to research, the more they come from the
direct political activity herausgedraengt promised.

It was the literature.

Even the court was also opposition, yes, above all, a literary, as the
speeches have been published regularly and as a political pamphlets
served.

Faster and sharper still met the arrows of poetry. The lively
hocharistokratische Youth, perhaps even more forcefully to the educated
middle class in the Italic Landstaedten, led the pamphlets and
Epigrammenkrieg with zeal and success.

Juxtaposition challenged in this area of the noble son of Senator
Gaius Licinius calvus (672-706 82-48), as speakers and Pamphletist
as well as a skilled poet was feared, and the municipal of Cremona
and Verona, Marcus Furius Bibaculus (652-691 102 -- 63) and Quintus
Valerius Catullus (667 to approximately 700 87-54), whose elegant
and biting Epigrams pfeil Italy flew by quickly and safely met their
goal.

Certainly exists in the literature of these years of oppositional tone.
It is full of grim mockery against the "great Caesar," "the only commander,
against the loving father-in-law and son-in-law, which the whole earth
ruin to ruin their chance to favorites give the longhaired Spolí the Celts
through the streets of Rome to parading, with the spoils of the
distant island of the West Royal feasts and to be honest competitors
goldregnende boys at home with their girls auszustechen. It is in
the Catullus poems ^ 6 and the other wreckage of the literature that
time something of that genius of personal and political hatred,
of those in frenzied lust or exuberant Republican desperation serious
agony as they emerge in powerful ways in Aristophanes and Demosthenes.

At least the premise of the three rulers knew it well that it was equally
impossible, to despise the opposition, such as by power command
to oppression.

As far as he could, tried to Caesar rather the most famous writer
in person to win.

Even Cicero had the considerate treatment which he preferred Caesar
learned the good part of his literary reputation to thank, but the
governor of Gaul spurned it, even with that through his Catullus
in Verona him personally known father a special peace to close; the
young poet who is also the powerful General and with the bitterest
sarcasm personal overwhelmed had the same ward with the most
flattering award deals.

Yes Caesar was brilliant enough to meet his literary opponents on their
own territory to follow and as a multi-pronged attacks indirect defenses,
a detailed report on the Gallic Wars to publish, which the necessity and
constitutionality happy with his Kriegfuehrung naïvety adopted before the
audience developed. With poetic and creative is now necessarily and
exclusively the freedom they and they alone, can it, nor in the
most miserable caricature, even with their last breath to inspire
fresh natures.

All elements of the literary stalwart was and remained antimonarchisch,
and if Caesar himself on this area without a car was allowed to
fail, it was the reason but only that he is even now still the great
dream of a free community contributed in the sense that he admittedly
neither his opponents nor his followers could be transferred.

The practical policy was not necessarily dominated by those in power than
the literature of the Republicans ^ 7 -------------------------------
^ 6 ---------- reserved us the collection is full of links to the
events of the years 699 (55) and 700 (54) and was without doubt the
latter made known, the recent incident, which they does, is the process
of Vatinius (August 700 54). Hieronymus' statement that Catullus
697/98 (57/56) died, and therefore needs only a few years to be.

The fact that Vatinius at its consulate in verschwoert "it is still
wrongly concluded that the collection only after Vatinius' Consulate
(707 47) appeared, it only follows that Vatinius as it appeared, had already
expected, in a certain annual consul to become what he is already 700 (54)
all had cause, for sure, his name with Luca on the agreed list of
candidates (Cic. Art. 4, 8 b, 2). ^ 7 The following poem Catullus (29)
is in the year 699 (53) or 700 (54), after Caesar britannischer expedition
and before the death of Juliet, written. Who can look, who it
auszustehn, Who is not a buck, or a player Schlemmer is That Mamurra
now be called, which once owned The Celtic Longhair and the distant
British country? You Schlapp tail Romulus, the see and give to you? The
aim therefore in high spirits and hard ointment, as a sweet Schnabelierer
as Adonis ziehn now here in all of our girls room? You Schlapp tail
Romulus, the see and give to you?'re a gourmet, you're a player, are a
buck! Drum So translated, the only general who fernstentlegnen On the
island of the West you So here you disused pastime Two or three
million can vertun? What is wrong liberally, if not this? Has not
he already spoiled enough and verprasst? First ruin was the paternal
Well, then loot the Pontus, then Iberia, which the golden Tagus
complained wave white.

The fear that you Britanner; Celts, the fears, what heget her rags,
which do nothing more than a fat inheritance by the throat can hunt?

Drum So ruiniertet their circle of the earth, your loving father-son-in-law?
Mamurra from Formiae, Caesar's favorite, and for a time during the
Gallic wars in whose army officer, was probably shortly before
writing this poem, after the capital return and probably was busy
with the construction of his much-with wasteful splendor equipped
marble palace on the Caelischen mountains.

The Iberian is prey to Caesar governorship of the Hereafter Mamurra Spain,
and even then, as later in Gaul, in his headquarters is found to have
the Pontic is probably due to Pompey 'war against Mithradates, especially
since. following the suggestion of the poet not only Caesar has enriched
the Mamurra. innocent than these toxic, Caesar felt bitter invective
(Suet.

CAES. 73) is another, simultaneous poem about the same poets (11),
which may be mentioned here because it is pathetic with his introduction
to a no less pathetic than the General Staff of the Commission's
new rulers, from the suddenly dive into the advanced headquarters Gabinius,
Anthony, and how they continue to say, very good satirizes. You remember
that it is written at a time was where Caesar on the Rhine and fought
on the Thames, where the expedition of Crassus after the part, the
Gabinius after Egypt was prepared. The poet, though also one of the
rulers of one of the vacant posts are hoping, two of his clients
are the last orders before departure: Furius and Aurelius, Catullus
your adjutant, he likes ziehn India to end, Where the East surging
wave largely echoing the beach PROPOSES, Or to Hyrkanien and Arabia,
in the area and Parthians pfeilfroh'n Saker Or where the mirror of
the sea the Nile siebenfaeltige colors; Or his path leads him over
the Alps, where the Malstein continued the great Caesar, Where the
Rhine flows and where Erdrand hausen Wilde Britanner - your ready,
all with Catullus, which gave him Goetterratsschluss determined to
share my treasure still bring before the short message Leidig!

Maybe they stand and walk with their men, what they also embraces three
hundred and keeps , None treulieb, but every hour of every desire.
Not as otherwise they nachblickte my love, The willfully bend them, like
the violets, along the hem at the Ackers changing grazed the plowshare.
---------- --------------------------------- It was necessary to combat
this is powerless, but always annoying and becoming bolder with opposition
Ernst intervene. The rash was, it seems, the condemnation of Gabinius (end
700 54). The ruler agreed to even if only temporary dictatorship to
have, and through this new Zwangsmassregeln notably with regard
to the elections and the courts enforce jurors.

As a person, the first the government of Rome and Italy fell over
the execution of this decision Pompey, because they wore the stamp
of its own resolutions and burdensome in the action and his inability
quaint, even when he wanted to commend and could, with the language
herauszugehen.

Already output 700 (54) was in hints and not by Pompey even the demands of
dictatorship in the Senate argued.

As a basic ostensibler served the ongoing club and band business in the
capital, through bribery and violent, however, to the elections to the
jurors how the courts perishable pressure and the riot daselbst held in
perpetuity, it has to admit that they are the rulers made easy their
Ausnahmemassregeln to justify.
George's, and to the plain red-brick,
white-trimmed front of the Friends' Meeting House; he came and went
between his dwelling and his office through the two places that form the
square, and after dinner his wife and he had a habit of finding seats by
one of the fountains in Livingston Place, among the fathers and mothers
of the hybrid East Side children swarming there at play. The elders read
their English or Italian or German or Yiddish journals, or gossiped, or
merely sat still and stared away the day's fatigue; while the little ones
raced in and out among them, crying and laughing, quarrelling and
kissing. Sometimes a mother darted forward and caught her child from the
brink of the basin; another taught hers to walk, holding it tightly up
behind by its short skirts; another publicly nursed her baby to sleep.

While they still dreamed, but never thought, of going to Europe, the
Marches often said how European all this was; if these women had brought
their knitting or sewing it would have been quite European; but as soon
as they had decided to go, it all began to seem poignantly American. In
like manner, before the conditions of their exile changed, and they still
pined for the Old World, they contrived a very agreeable illusion of it
by dining now and then at an Austrian restaurant in Union Square; but
later when they began to be homesick for the American scenes they had not
yet left, they had a keener retrospective joy in the strictly New York
sunset they were bowed out into.

The sunsets were uncommonly characteristic that May in Union Square. They
were the color of the red stripes in the American flag, and when they
were seen through the delirious architecture of the Broadway side, or
down the perspective of the cross-streets, where the elevated trains
silhouetted themselves against their pink, they imparted a feeling of
pervasive Americanism in which all impression of alien savors and
civilities was lost. One evening a fire flamed up in Hoboken, and burned
for hours against the west, in the lurid crimson tones of a conflagration
as memorably and appealingly native as the colors of the sunset.

The weather for nearly the whole month was of a mood familiar enough in
our early summer, and it was this which gave the sunsets their vitreous
pink. A thrilling coolness followed a first blaze of heat, and in the
long respite the thoughts almost went back to winter flannels. But at
last a hot wave was telegraphed from the West, and the week before the
Norumbia sailed was an anguish of burning days and breathless nights,
which fused all regrets and reluctances in the hope of escape, and made
the exiles of two continents long for the sea, with no care for either
shore.


VI.

Their steamer was to sail early; they were up at dawn because they had
scarcely lain down, and March crept out into the square for a last breath
of its morning air before breakfast. He was now eager to be gone; he had
broken with habit, and he wished to put all traces of the past out of
sight. But this was curiously like all other early mornings in his
consciousness, and he could not alienate himself from the wonted
environment. He stood talking on every-day terms of idle speculation with
the familiar policeman, about a stray parrot in the top of one of the
trees, where it screamed and clawed at the dead branch to which it clung.
Then he went carelessly indoors again as if he were secure of reading the
reporter's story of it in that next day's paper which he should not see.

The sense of an inseverable continuity persisted through the breakfast,
which was like other breakfasts in the place they would be leaving in
summer shrouds just as they always left it at the end of June. The
illusion was even heightened by the fact that their son was to be in the
apartment all summer, and it would not be so much shut up as usual. The
heavy trunks had been sent to the ship by express the afternoon before,
and they had only themselves and their stateroom baggage to transport to
Hoboken; they came down to a carriage sent from a neighboring
livery-stable, and exchanged good-mornings with a driver they knew by
name.

March had often fancied it a chief advantage of living in New York that
you could drive to the steamer and start for Europe as if you were
starting for Albany; he was in the enjoyment of this advantage now, but
somehow it was not the consolation he had expected. He knew, of course,
that if they had been coming from Boston, for instance, to sail in the
Norumbia, they would probably have gone on board the night before, and
sweltered through its heat among the strange smells and noises of the
dock and wharf, instead of breakfasting at their own table, and smoothly
bowling down the asphalt on to the ferryboat, and so to the very foot of
the gangway at the ship's side, all in the cool of the early morning. But
though he had now the cool of the early morning on these conditions,
there was by no means enough of it.

The sun was already burning the life out of the air, with the threat of
another day of the terrible heat that had prevailed for a week past; and
that last breakfast at home had not been gay, though it had been lively,
in a fashion, through Mrs. March's efforts to convince her son that she
did not want him to come and see them off. Of, her daughter's coming all
the way from Chicago there was no question, and she reasoned that if he
did not come to say good-by on board it would be the same as if they were
not going.

"Don't you want to go?" March asked with an obscure resentment.

"I don't want to seem to go," she said, with the calm of those who have
logic on their side.

As she drove away with her husband she was not so sure of her
satisfaction in the feint she had arranged, though when she saw the
ghastly partings of people on board, she was glad she had not allowed her
son to come. She kept saying this to herself, and when they climbed to
the ship from the wharf, and found themselves in the crowd that choked
the saloons and promenades and passages and stairways and landings, she
said it more than once to her husband.

You are now in France as all the hosts. You must be polite to everyone.
(Napoleon his hand on the shoulder radically Giuseppe:) And that is
the courtesy of their full value - is not it? (Leutnant.) Ah, there's
my husband! - General, set the event I imagine your boys - (Napoleon
and Ernst irony:) You will not make it to me, my friend! (Leutnant.) Aha!
believe you - but you will already see, just wait! If I catch him yet,
and you should, you will then say: we are Quitt? Are you the story of
the degradation in the presence of my regiment drop? Not for my sake,
you know - but no regiment is like the laughter of the other regiments
disclose. (Napoleon a cold glimmer of humor flits about his gloomy face:)
What should we start with this officer, Giuseppe, - everything he says
is wrong. (Giuseppe quick-witted:) Take it to the General Excellence,
then, everything that he says is correct. (Lieutenant triumphantly:)
Haha! (He throws himself into ecstasy on the sofa, the Joke region.)
(Napoleon and takes Giuseppe laughs at an ear:) In this inn you will
not be covered, Giuseppe. (He sits down and makes Giuseppe to himself,
like a schoolmaster his disciple:) Shall I take you with me and
a man you do? (Giuseppe shakes his head again soon:) No, thank you,
Sir. My whole life people have tried to understand me a man to do. When I
was a boy, wanted our good pastor a man out of me, by me, he taught to
read and write, and then wanted the organist to Melegnano a man from
me by me in the staff reading instructed. Later recruiting Corporal
would a man have made of me if I have a few larger tariff would
have been - but always had the work means to me, plus I'm too lazy
but, thank heaven!

So instead of all this I learned to cook and was host, and now I think
that servants of the work himself and had nothing to do than to gossip,
which gets me very good. (Napoleon him thoughtfully sight:) Are you
satisfied? (Giuseppe glad conviction :) Absolutely, Sir! (Napoleon.) And
you do not eat the devil in him, the day and night with deeds and victories
to be fed - you are with the sweat of your body and your brain, with weeks
of Herculean work of ten minutes enjoyment can pay, who is thy slave and
thy tyrant is thy Genius and thy doom - you with one hand and a crown
reaches the helm of a galley slave with the other - you all the
kingdoms of the earth and shows you her Lord to make promises on the
condition that thou wilt her servant? - From all you have nothing in
him? (Giuseppe.) Nothing like. But I assure you, Excellency, my consumption
of hell is far worse, he offers me no crowns or kingdoms, he expects
everything for nothing from me to get - sausage, omelets, grapes, cheese,
polenta, wine - three times a day, Sir, nothing less will satisfy him.

The passengers incessantly mounted by the canvas-draped galleries
leading, fore and aft, into the ship. Bareheaded, blue-jacketed,
brass-buttoned stewards dodged skillfully in and out among them with
their hand-bags, holdalls, hat-boxes, and state-room trunks, and ran
before them into the different depths and heights where they hid these
burdens, and then ran back for more. Some of the passengers followed them
and made sure that their things were put in the right places; most of
them remained wedged among the earlier comers, or pushed aimlessly in and
out of the doors of the promenades.

The baggage for the hold continually rose in huge blocks from the wharf,
with a loud clucking of the tackle, and sank into the open maw of the
ship, momently gathering herself for her long race seaward, with harsh
hissings and rattlings and gurglings. There was no apparent reason why it
should all or any of it end, but there came a moment when there began to
be warnings that were almost threats of the end. The ship's whistle
sounded, as if marking a certain interval; and Mrs. March humbly
entreated, sternly commanded, her son to go ashore, or else be carried to
Europe. They disputed whether that was the last signal or not; she was
sure it was, and she appealed to March, who was moved against his reason.
He affected to talk calmly with his son, and gave him some last charges
about 'Every Other Week'.

Some people now interrupted their leave-taking; but the arriving
passengers only arrived more rapidly at the gang-ways; the bulks of
baggage swung more swiftly into the air. A bell rang, and there rose
women's cries, "Oh, that is the shore-bell!" and men's protests, "It is
only the first bell!" More and more began to descend the gangways, fore
and aft, and soon outnumbered those who were coming aboard.

March tried not to be nervous about his son's lingering; he was ashamed
of his anxiety; but he said in a low voice, "Better be off, Tom."

His mother now said she did not care if Tom were really carried to
Europe; and at last he said, Well, he guessed he must go ashore, as if
there had been no question of that before; and then she clung to him and
would not let him go; but she acquired merit with herself at last by
pushing him into the gangway with her own hands: he nodded and waved his
hat from its foot, and mixed with the crowd.

Presently there was hardly any one coming aboard, and the sailors began
to undo the lashings of the gangways from the ship's side; files of men
on the wharf laid hold of their rails; the stewards guarding their
approach looked up for the signal to come aboard; and in vivid pantomime
forbade some belated leavetakers to ascend. These stood aside, exchanging
bows and grins with the friends whom they could not reach; they all tried
to make one another hear some last words. The moment came when the saloon
gangway was detached; then it was pulled ashore, and the section of the
bulwarks opening to it was locked, not to be unlocked on this side of the
world. An indefinable impulse communicated itself to the steamer: while
it still seemed motionless it moved. The thick spread of faces on the
wharf, which had looked at times like some sort of strange flowers in a
level field, broke into a universal tremor, and the air above them was
filled with hats and handkerchiefs, as if with the flight of birds rising
from the field.

The Marches tried to make out their son's face; they believed that they
did; but they decided that they had not seen him, and his mother said
that she was glad; it would only have made it harder to bear, though she
was glad he had come over to say good-by it had seemed so unnatural that
he should not, when everybody else was saying good-by.

On the wharf color was now taking the place of form; the scene ceased to
have the effect of an instantaneous photograph; it was like an
impressionistic study. As the ship swung free of the shed and got into
the stream, the shore lost reality. Up to a certain moment, all was still
New York, all was even Hoboken; then amidst the grotesque and monstrous
shows of the architecture on either shore March felt himself at sea and
on the way to Europe.

The fact was accented by the trouble people were already making with the
deck-steward about their steamer chairs, which they all wanted put in the
best places, and March, with a certain heart-ache, was involuntarily
verifying the instant in which he ceased to be of his native shores,
while still in full sight of them, when he suddenly reverted to them, and
as it were landed on them again in an incident that held him breathless.
A man, bareheaded, and with his arms flung wildly abroad, came flying
down the promenade from the steerage. "Capitan! Capitan! There is a
woman!" he shouted in nondescript English. "She must go hout! She must go
hout!" Some vital fact imparted itself to the ship's command and seemed
to penetrate to the ship's heart; she stopped, as if with a sort of
majestic relenting. A tug panted to her side, and lifted a ladder to it;
the bareheaded man, and a woman gripping a baby in her arms, sprawled
safely down its rungs to the deck of the tug, and the steamer moved
seaward again.

"What is it? Oh, what is it?" his wife demanded of March's share of their
common ignorance. A young fellow passing stopped, as if arrested by the
tragic note in her voice, and explained that the woman had left three
little children locked up in her tenement while she came to bid some
friends on board good-by.

He passed on, and Mrs. March said, "What a charming face he had!" even
before she began to wreak upon that wretched mother the overwrought
sympathy which makes good women desire the punishment of people who have
escaped danger. She would not hear any excuse for her. "Her children
oughtn't to have been out of her mind for an instant."

"Don't you want to send back a line to ours by the pilot?" March asked.

She started from him. "Oh, was I really beginning to forget them?"

In the saloon where people were scattered about writing pilot's letters
she made him join her in an impassioned epistle of farewell, which once
more left none of the nothings unsaid that they had many times
reiterated. March 705 (49) bring. Pompey 'stunted sneaky malice and hesitant
in these events in strange way, mixed with the formalism and knifflichen
constitutional erudition of the Constitution Party. Years earlier, before
these state law used weapons that could be appealed to cope and
they sat down in the Constitution, partly Caesar before the days
when the Pompey 'own law he promised deadline expired at the end,
ie from 1 March 705 (49) to broadcast by the successor to the
resignation of the commands necessary, partly in the elections for
706 (48) on him, according to the voting boards as a void to be
able to treat.

Caesar, not in a position to provide such Schachzuege to prevent this
silent and let things come to that. Allgemach moved because of the
constitutional course of snails.

After the observance, the Senate over the governorship of the year
705 (49), inasmuch as they were former consuls at the beginning of
the year 703 (51), insofar as it came to former praetor, at the
beginning of the year 704 (50) to advise; the former was the first
consulting the occasion, the appointment of new governors of Gaul,
both in the Senate to raise the first and thus give rise to open
conflict between the Constitution Party nominee Pompey and Caesar's
representatives in the Senate.

The consul Marcus Marcellus brought the application, the two for 705
(49) with activities governor device Konsularer so far by both the proconsul
Gaius Caesar administered from 1 March of that year to be transferred.
The long zurueckgehaltene exasperation in the stream broke through the
lock once raised, it came in these negotiations to accept what the Catonianer
against Caesar in the sense of contributing. For them it was found that
the law except by the proconsul Caesar allowed right to be absent on
election Consul to report by late folk final again, even in this not in
a valid manner was reserved. The Senate should they believe that
officials make, because the subjugation of Gaul was finished, the
exhausted soldiers to adopt immediately.

The Caesar in northern Italy's civil and legal awards Koloniegruendungen
they were unconstitutional and void as a means of which further
clarification Marcellus imposed via a reputable Ratsherrn comum
colony of Caesar, who, even if that place does not citizens, but
only Latin rights zukam, empowered was the Roman civil law shall
be taken only against non-citizens authorized punishment of flogging.

Caesar's current representative, under which Vibius Gaius Pansa, the
son of a man outlawed Sulla, but in the political career that, former
officer in Caesar's army and in that year Volkstribun, the most
prestigious was made in the Senate argued that both the state of things
in Gaul as well as fairness requires, not only Caesar does not retrieve
the time, but his command next to the consulate to let it had no doubt
pointed out that a few years ago Pompey quite well, the Spanish Governor's
activities with the consulate united and still currently have,
except the major metropolitan Oberaufsichtsamt about the catering sector,
with the Spanish supreme command of the Italy cumulate, yes ALL of his
weapons team and their sworn oath not yet released it. The process
began to formulate, but it did not matter in rapid motion.

The majority of the Senate, are seeing the break, had it not months to come
session a quorum, and some months have passed over Pompey 'hesitation lost
ceremony. Finally broke the silence and this was, as always, while in
backing and unsafe manner, but clearly enough, against his former allies
on the side of the Constitution Party. The requirement of Caesarianer,
their Lord, the accumulation of the consulate with the Prokonsulat to
permit, he briefly and brusquely by the hand, this desire, he added with
heavy coarseness, he does not come better before, as if the Son of the
Father Stockschlaege offer . The application of Marcellus, he agreed, in
principle, so far, when he declared, Caesar the direct connection of
the consulate to the Prokonsulat not want to allow. However, he
implies, but this is without binding to declare that the registration on
the elections for 706 (48) under elimination of the personal message
as well as the continuation of the governorship until 13 November 705
(49) the most extreme case, perhaps Caesar will allow. First however,
agreed to the incorrigible procrastination in the adjournment of a
successor until after the appointment last February 704 (50), which
was required Wortfuehrern Caesars, probably due to a clause in the
Pompeisch-Licinischen Act, which prior to the beginning of Caesar's last
governor of years each negotiation Senate over the appointment of
successor prohibited. In this sense fell because the decisions made by
the Senate (September 29, 703 51). The composition of the Gallic
governor activity was for the 1st March 704 (50) on the agenda, but
now the blowing of Caesar's army, similar to how it used by people
with the closing of the armies of Lucullus had happened in the
species in the hand, that the veterans were the same causes, because
its adoption in the Senate to turn.

Caesars representatives brought in so far as they could be constitutional,
the appeal of these decisions through their veto tribunizisches alone
Pompey spoke very determined, that the officers were obliged the government
to strictly obey and Interzessionen and similar antiquated formalities
herein would not change.

The oligarchic party, whose body now that Pompey did not minutely revealed
the intention to look for a possible victory in the Constitution
to revise their sense of everything and eliminate what people like freedom
even looked, as they also, without doubt, from this Basically, it failed
in their attacks directed against Caesar somehow the Komitien to use.
The Coalition between Pompeius and the Constitution Party was formally
declared, also on the ruling Caesar apparently already gefaellt and
only the date of the opening move. The elections for the following year
fell consistently against it. During this kriegsvorbereitenden
Parteimanoever the opponent, it was Caesar succeeded, with the Gallic
Insurrektion ready and in the whole territory under the peace stand
built. Even in the summer of 703 (51), he moved under the decorous
pretext of border defense, but obviously a sign of the fact that
the legions in Gaul, now began to be able to be devoid of a same to
northern Italy. He had, if not earlier, in any case most people now recognize
that it can not be spared, the sword against his fellow citizens to consider,
nevertheless, he went alone, because it was highly desirable, the legions
still for a time in which hardly pacifies Gaul to can still hesitating
and was well acquainted with the extreme love of peace Senatsmajoritaet,
hope not to take it regardless of Pompey pressure exerted on them by
the declaration of war nor back. Even great sacrifice he is not shy,
just not for now with the senior GOVERNMENTAL in open contradiction
to come.

When the Senate (Spring 704 50) on operation of Pompey, both of these as
to Caesar the applications presented, one legion for the forthcoming
Parthischen war must, and when this decision in accordance with the
Pompeius several years ago to about Caesar authorized legion of
this reclaimed to them to Syria einzuschiffen came Caesar zwiefachen
the invitation, since neither the opportunity nor the Senate decision,
the legitimacy of the claim is to deny Pompey and Caesar had to observe
the limits of the law and the formal loyalty was located more than several
thousand more soldiers.

The two legions were without delay and put the Government's disposal, but
rather to the Euphrates to send, they considered this in Capua in readiness
for Pompey, and the audience had the opportunity once again, Caesar's
apparent effort to break away with the preparation of the perfidious
war opponents to compare. For the negotiations with the Senate, it was
Caesar succeeded in not only one of the two consuls of the year,
Lucius Aemilius Paullus, to purchase, but especially the Volkstribun
Gaius Curio, probably the most eminent among the many dissolute
genius of this era ^ 2: distinguished unsurpassed in elegance, in
flowing and witty speech, in skill and intrigue to the drive, which
when applied vigorously, but ruin the characters in the intervals
of idleness just so powerful that suggests, but also unsurpassed
in desert economy, in Borgtalent - you beat his debt to 60 million
Sestertius (4 «million thalers) - and in moral and political
Grundsatzlosigkeit.

Even earlier, he had Caesar offered to purchase and was dismissed: the
talent that he has in his attacks on Caesar had developed certain
that it NACHTRÄGLICH to purchase - the price was high, but the
product was worth it.

Curio had in the first months of his Volkstribunats the independent
Republicans, and as such played well against Caesar against Pompey
as gedonnert. The apparently impartial position which gave him this, he
used with rare agility, in order, as in March 704 (50) the application
is about the occupation of the Gallic governor activities for the
coming new year in the Senate came to a hearing, this Decision is
fully carry conviction, but at the same time extending the same to
Pompey and his extraordinary command to ask.

His argument that a constitutional state is only by eliminating all positions
except Happen by the fact that Pompey, as only by the Senate with
the Prokonsulat operation, much less the same as Caesar refuse the
obedience that the unilateral removal of one of the two generals
of the danger for the Constitution only increase the political
Halbweisen shone like the big audience completely, and Curios
explanation that he had any unilateral Vorschreiten Caesar against
him by the proper constitutional veto to prevent remember, was in
and out of the Senate often approve.

Caesar explained by Curios proposal immediately agreed and offered
to governorship and command every moment on Requesting Senate to
resign, wofern Pompey do the same, he was allowed to it, because
without his Italic-Spanish command Pompey was no longer horrible.

In contrast, Pompey could not but for that very reason to refuse his
reply that Caesar first down and he needs to the given example, remember
to follow soon, satisfied to be less than he does not even have a
specific date for his resignation strategies.

Recovery faltered months the decision, and the Pompey Catonianer, the
mood of the Senatsmajoritaet safer knowing, dared not, Curios request to
vote to bring.

Caesar used the summer to move the peace stand by him in the conquered
areas to be stated in the Scheldt over a large Heerschau by his
troops and totally devoted to him norditalische governor handle a triumph
to keep the autumn found him in the southern border town of its province,
in Ravenna. The no longer to vote on delaying Curios request was finally
taken and noted the defeat of the party of Pompey and Cato in their
entirety. With 370 against 30 votes the Senate decided that proconsuls
of Spain and Gaul reconsider both had to resign their posts at the
same time, and with boundless jubilation heard the good citizens
of Rome, the glad tidings of salvation Curios indeed.

Pompey was then confirmed by the Senate no less dismissed as Caesar, and
while Caesar was ready, under the command, Pompey refused to obey absolutely.
The presiding Consul Gaius Marcellus, cousin of Marcus Marcellus and equal
to that party duly Catone, held the majority servile a bitter penalty
sermon, and it was certainly annoying, so in his own camp to be beaten
and beaten by the phalanx of memme. But where should the victory also
come under a leader who, instead of short and certainly the senators
his commands to dictate to his old days when a professor of rhetoric,
for the second time in the lesson went to the youth shiny fresh
talent with newly refurbished Curios eloquence to meet?

---------------------------------------------- ------------- ^ 2 homo
ingeniosissime nequam (Vell, 2, 48). ------------------------
----------------------------------- The Senate coalition was defeated in
the most embarrassing situation.

The Catone Group had taken over, things to Bruche to drive and the Senate
with fortzureissen and now he saw the anger in her car on way to the
flaccid Sandbaenken majority stranded. From Pompey had their leader in the
conferences, the bitterest reproaches hear, he pointed vigorously
and with full right to the dangers of bogus peace out, if only to
himself he was the node through a rapid indeed durchhauen, so did
his allies very well that they never expect from him and that allowed
it to them was, as it promised an end to it.

After the Vorfechter of the Constitution and the Senate earlier regiment
the constitutional rights of residents and the Volkstribune for inhaltlose
formalities had stated they were now in the necessity, to the
constitutional decisions of the Senate itself in a similar manner and, as
the legitimate government incompatible with their desire to want to
save them against their will to deliver. It was neither new nor accidental,
in the same way as now Cato and his family also had Sulla and Lucullus
every right in the interest of the government taken the same vigorous
determination on the head to have to take the constitutional
machinery had just completely worn out, and they have been Komitien
the centuries, so now the Senate is nothing but a lame, out of the
track by soft wheel It was the speech (October 704 50), four legions
that Caesar from beyond the grave in this world and Gaul pulled up
in Placentia have.

Although these troops to move into the powers of the governor, was also
adopted the Curio full of baseless rumors and clear the Senate and the
Curia dartat the request of the consul Gaius Marcellus, then Pompey
against Caesar marching orders to give, with the majority rejected,
it nevertheless came to the Consul called in conjunction with the two for
705 (49) chose to also Catone party due to consuls Pompey and asked these
three men own sovereignty by virtue of the General, at the head of two
legions at Capua below and to the discretion Italic defensive team in the
call to arms. An attorney formwidrigere to the opening of the Civil War
had to think hard, we just had no time, In addition to such matters
must be taken: Pompey took them on. The war preparations, the digging
began, in order to encourage them personally to leave Pompey in December
704 (50) the capital. Caesar had been completely achieved, the opponents
of the initiative of the Civil War zuzuschieben. He had, while he himself
maintained the legal ground, Pompey forced to declare war and to
declare him not as representatives of legitimate violence, but as
a captain seems revolutionary, and the majority Senatsminoritaet
terrorize.

It was this success is not limited anzuschlagen, although the instinct
of the masses is not a moment could be deceived about it, pretending that
in this war for other things to act as formal legal.

Now that the war was declared, it was in Caesar's interest, as soon as
possible to come to hitting. The defense of the opponents were just
starting in the capital, and even vacant.

In ten to twelve days, a daselbst in northern Italy are Caesar's troops
triple over losing his army together, but still it was not impossible,
to Rome undefended by surprise, perhaps by a winter campaign rapidly
throughout Italy and to the opponents of their best sources of help
to close, before they have to use the same managed.

The clever and energetic Curio, after the resignation of his Tribunate
(December 9 704 50) immediately after Caesar had gone Ravenna,
presented his master the situation of things lively, and it had its difficult
to convince Caesar to that long now procrastination only harm you.

Solo because he, not the opponents to the initiative of complaints to
give, to Ravenna itself no troops had withdrawn, he could do nothing
for now, when all his corps command to quickly start zufertigen and had
to wait until at least the one in Northern Italy standing Legion
arrived in Ravenna. Meanwhile he sent an ultimatum to Rome, which, if
nothing else, but this was useful, that through indulgence to the extreme
by his opponents even more in the public opinion compromised and perhaps
even by himself, he seemed to hesitate, they are certain, the defense
against him negligent operation. In this ultimatum had Caesar to all
former Pompey's counterclaims, and offered, for its part, to the Senate
by the deadline set both the governorship of the Hereafter Gaul down as
well as the ten of his own legions eight dissolve he declared
himself satisfied, if the Senate shall either the governorship of
Gaul and Illyria Diesseits with one or even this side of the Gaul
alone with two legions, not until the takeover of the consulate,
but by the end of the Consular Elections for 706 (48) respectively.

He went to those Vergleichsvorschlaege So, with those at the beginning of
negotiations, the Senate party, even Pompey himself had declared themselves
to want to satisfy, and showed willingness, of the election for the consulate
to take up the same in the private booth to probation. Whether Caesar
with these concessions Ernst was amazing and his game against Pompey
himself in such pretending to be able to or if he dared to afford
that on the other hand, has already gone too far in order in these
Vergleichsvorschlaegen more than the evidence that Caesar even as his cause
lost view, can no longer decide for sure. The likelihood is that Caesar
more like the mistake allzukecken playing worse than those committed to
do something to promise what he is not minded to keep, and that,
miraculously when his suggestions were adopted, his word he would have
remedied. Curio over it, his master once again into the lion's den
to defend.

In three days he durchflog the road from Ravenna to Rome, when the new
consuls Lucius Lentulus and Gaius Marcellus the younger ^ 3 for the
first time on 1 January 705 (49) brought the Senate, he passed in full
session by the commander of the Senate addressed letter. The Volkstribune
Marcus Antonius, in the scandalous chronicle of the city known as
Curios trusted friend and comrade of all his follies, but also from the
Egyptian and Gallic campaigns as glossy equestrian officer, and
Quintus Cassius, Pompey 'former Treasurer, both of which now Curios
body Caesars thing led to Rome, forcing the immediate delivery of
news.

The serious and clear waiting, in which Caesar the looming civil war,
the general desire for peace, Pompey 'high spirits, his own compliance
with all the irresistible power of truth out, the Vergleichsvorschlaege
without doubt one of his own Pendant surprising moderation, certain
explanation that this hand of peace for the last offer was made the
deepest impression.

Despite the fear of many in the capital gestroemten soldiers of
Pompey was the attitude of the majority is not doubtful, you could
not dare to pronounce it for you.

About Caesar renewed the proposal that the two governors also resigned,
the command to abandon their fans, all over by his letter and
suggested Vergleichsvorschlaege about the Marcus Caelius Rufus and
Marcus Calidius request, Pompey, for immediate departure to Spain
were to be refused the consuls, as it were, as Chair, the vote open.

Even the request of one of the most determined sympathizers, not only
against the military state of affairs was so blind as his party,
of Marcus Marcellus, the decision to suspend until the Italic country
under assault weapons and the Senate is to protect property, not
allowed to vote market.

Pompey had his habitual body Quintus Scipio explain that it now or
never the case of the Senate had decided to fall and they leave,
if you do longer hesitate.

The consul Lentulus said it bluntly, that it was the decision of
the Senate no longer irrelevant, but if the same servility during
his probation should he act on his own initiative and with his
powerful friends, the other will make.

But he thought very
tolerantly of the future, and he confirmed himself in the decision he had
already made, to stick to Chicago when he came back to America. New York
was very well, and he had no sentiment about Chicago; but he had got a
foothold there; he had done better with an Eastern publisher, he
believed, by hailing from the West, and he did not believe it would hurt
him with the Eastern public to keep on hailing from the West.

He was glad of a chance to see Europe, but he did not mean to come home
so dazzled as to see nothing else against the American sky. He fancied,
for he really knew nothing, that it was the light of Europe, not its
glare that he wanted, and he wanted it chiefly on his material, so as to
see it more and more objectively. It was his power of detachment from
this that had enabled him to do his sketches in the paper with such charm
as to lure a cash proposition from a publisher when he put them together
for a book, but he believed that his business faculty had much to do with
his success; and he was as proud of that as of the book itself. Perhaps
he was not so very proud of the book; he was at least not vain of it; he
could, detach himself from his art as well as his material.

Like all literary temperaments he was of a certain hardness, in spite of
the susceptibilities that could be used to give coloring to his work. He
knew this well enough, but he believed that there were depths of
unprofessional tenderness in his nature. He was good to his mother, and
he sent her money, and wrote to her in the little Indiana town where he
had left her when he came to Chicago. After he got that invitation from
the Bird of Prey, he explored his heart for some affection that he had
not felt for him before, and he found a wish that his employer should not
know it was he who had invented that nickname for him. Of the treated nymphs
Juan Garay and María Conde _Breves notes in his historical narrative of
the city of Ecija_ (Ecija, 1851), pp. 436, saying: "For a tour of this
Estremo [of the square] is a beautiful fountain surrounded by trees
and also seats of stone: the sea is a great site for nine yards in
diameter and a depth, four nymphs that natural high and good sculpture,
the Amazons are said to give a water pipe through a cantarillo, and this
lovely group maintains a large bowl of a single piece of jasper, with
two sticks and a half in diameter and four pipes to its edge ....» What
is this source? By becoming in 1866 the reform of the Plaza Mayor, was
dismantled and 'stones or blocks of jasper incarnate, with the nymphs
and other components of the work were buried on the south side of
the Plaza, within walking distance and depth of which were previously
get up and lie there waiting for a charitable and loving hand of
art and the beautification of the city and erected dig ....» again
I say of Ecija, and I wrote to Don Eduardo García de Castro, current
mayor of that city which, because this source, whatever its merit,
to be kept on-site centric and highly traveled, having made mention
of it in a ecijano so illustrious a famous novel, would be recorded
in my notes to _The Devil Cojuelo_ 'Ecija that today, far from that
yesterday _enterraba_ prey more estimable, without replacing them
by some other equally good or better, amendment old mistakes again
and the good name of their culture. " The response has been twofold:
first, 'there will' and the second, 'There is no provision for
_exhumar_ source.

But there was to _inhumarla_! Fix it for his honor, _The sol_ city: it's
a shame to have buried the monument!]
He thought he would use the material
first in a letter to the paper and afterwards in a poem; but he found
himself unable to grasp the notion of its essential relation to the
choice between chicken croquettes and sweetbreads as entrees of the
restaurant dinner where he had been offered neither; he knew that he had
begun to dream, and that he must get up. He was just going to get up,
when he woke to a sense of freshness in the air, penetrating from the new
day outside. I can understand this lady does not move me a lot of explanations
to give, but there is no doubt that the man who through his cunning then
brought to violate their duty, as they have been admitted, is her brother.
( Lieutenant triumphantly:) What have I told you, Sir? (Napoleon.) You
need to find these people, your honor is at stake, and the outcome
of the campaign, the fate of France - Europe - of humanity, perhaps
the likes of communications depend on those Newsflashes included.

(Leutnant.) Yes, it seems to me they are really quite important. (As if
he previously had thought little.) (Napoleon vigorously:) You are so
important, Mr. Lieutenant, that I hold you in the presence of your
regiment will degrade if you do not find Newsflashes. (Leutnant.) Hu! I
can assure you that the few regiments that will be enjoyable. (Napoleon.)
Personally I regret you, I would be the case if that were possible,
like to oppress. But I will be held accountable if I do not act
according to the dispatches - and I will show the world that I never got
it, what ever the consequences for you may have - I'm sorry, but
You see, I can not help otherwise. (good-natured lieutenant:) Oh, please
take the matter to heart, Sir, you are really too kind. What I should
also zustoßen, I'll get through it somehow, and we will beat the Austrians
for you - with or without Newsflashes!

I hope you will not insist that I am quite vain hunt immediately
after that boys do. I have no idea where I should look for him.
(Giuseppe respectfully:) You forget, Mr. Lieutenant, - he has your horse.
(Lieutenant drive:) The hab 'ich ganz vergessen. (Determined:) I will be
after him wastage, Sir, I am going to this horse, if it is somewhere in
Italy is still alive, flush, and I will not forget the dispatches -
do not worry. Geh ', Giuseppe, and Sattler one of your shabby old post
coach horses, while my hat, my sword and the other matters hole, -
quick, march! Continue with you! (Asks him out.) (Giuseppe.) Immediately,
Mr. Lieutenant, instantly! (He disappears in the vineyard, which
the Sunset rötet.) (Lieutenant on the way to the inner door to hindsight:)
That reminds me, Sir, I have my sword or not? Oh, I remember now -
(morose:) That's it, if a person is in detention!

You will never know where you left his seven things ... (He gabbles
from the room.) (Dame before the buffet:) What does this mean anything,
Sir? (Napoleon.) He will not find your brother. (Dame.) Of course not,
because I do not have. ( Napoleon.) The dispatches will be irretrievably
lost. (Dame.) nonsense! You are in your skirt pocket. (Napoleon.) You
will see that it is difficult to keep these adventurous allegation to
prove. (The woman goes on and it fits aptly with emphasis added:) These
papers are lost.

He had seen that she was the young lady for whom he had come to put on
his enamelled shoes, and he saw that the person within was the elderly
gentleman who had sat next her at breakfast. He begged his pardon, as he
entered, and said he hoped he should not disturb him. "I'm afraid I left
my things all over the place, when I got up this morning."

The other entreated him not to mention it and went on taking from his
hand-bag a variety of toilet appliances which the sight of made Burnamy
vow to keep his own simple combs and brushes shut in his valise all the
way over. "You slept on board, then," he suggested, arresting himself
with a pair of low shoes in his hand; he decided to put them in a certain
pocket of his steamer bag.

"Oh, yes," Burnamy laughed, nervously: "I came near oversleeping, and
getting off to sea without knowing it; and I rushed out to save myself,
and so--"

He began to gather up his belongings while he followed the movements of
Mr. Triscoe with a wistful eye. He would have liked to offer his lower
berth to this senior of his, when he saw him arranging to take possession
of the upper; but he did not quite know how to manage it. He noticed that
as the other moved about he limped slightly, unless it were rather a
weary easing of his person from one limb to the other. Far more difficult
than the order of these essentially already past anheimgefallenen
issues was the treatment of the moment is opposite parties: some
of their own democratic Annex Caesars, partly toppled the aristocracy.

The fact that those with Caesar's methods after the victory and with
his call to abandon old party position, perhaps even less than
this was in agreement, understands itself Caesar himself would
probably within the same whole, which Gaius Gracchus had worn the
meaning, only the intentions the Caesarianer were no longer the
Gracchaner.

The Roman Popular Party was in ever increasing progressivity of the
reform in the revolution, the revolution in the anarchy, the
anarchy in the war against the property had been pressured and they
celebrated in the memory of the terror and decorated, like the
Gracchi, so now the Catiline grave with flowers and wreaths, they
had under the Caesars flag, as they expected from him, what had you
not Catiline can provide.

As now but very soon it turned out that Caesar wanted to be nothing less
than the executors Catilinas that inflicted by him maximum payment
facilities and process mitigation had hoped, as promised, according
to the bitter question, for whom as the People's party had triumphed,
if not for the people?

and started the noble and menial rabble of this kind before a loud
angry about the failure of political-economic Saturnalia only, with
the Pompeianern to flirt, then even during Caesar's absence of
nearly two-Italy (January 706 48 Autumn 707 to 47) daselbst a citizen
in war civil war.

The praetor Marcus Caelius Rufus, a nobleman of good and bad debts charged
by a few of many talents and education, as a violent man finished talking
and so far in the Senate and on the market in one of the most avid
champion of Caesar, was, without higher order in which people represent
an law, the debtors sechsjaehriges granted interest-free moratorium,
then, as he is joined in the way of a second, even all the receivables
from loans and current financial collects rents, which the Senate Caesar
horrified him of his duties.

It was just the time before the Pharsalischen battle, and the balance
in the great battle that seemed to side with the tendency to Pompeianer;
Rufus joined with the old Senators Bandenfuehrer Milo in conjunction
and both donated a counterrevolution, which partly republican
constitution, some appeal to the demands and Clear explanation of
the slaves on their Panier wrote.

Milo left his exile Massalia and cried in the area of Thurii the Pompeianer
the shepherds and slaves under the arms; Rufus made prison, armed
by the city of Capua slaves to conquer.

Only the latter plan was discovered before the execution and the defense
thwarted capuanische Buerger; Quintus Pedius, with a legion in the
thurinische field einrueckte, scattered daselbst the house of gang,
and the case of the two leaders made the scandal to an end (706 48) .

Nevertheless, there was the following year (707 47) a second gate,
the Volkstribun Publius Dolabella, who, like debt, but incomparably
less gifted than his predecessor, whose claims about the Act and
house rentals in revenue, and again with his colleague Lucius
Trebellius about it again - it was the last time - the Demagogenkrieg
began, there were between arge Haendel, both armed gangs, and many
Strassenlaerm until the commander of Italy, Marcus Antonius, the
military had to intervene and soon Caesar's return from the east
to the great driver completely a goal set.

"I see," said Mrs. March, and she added, thoughtfully, "She looks like
rather a proud girl."

"Yes," the young fellow sighed.

"She is very charming," she continued, thoughtfully, but not so
judicially.

"Well," Burnamy owned, "that is certainly one of the complications," and
they laughed together.

She stopped herself after saying, "I see what you mean," and suggested,
"I think I should be guided by circumstances. It needn't be done at once,
I suppose."

"Well," Burnamy began, and then he broke out, with a laugh of
embarrassment, "I've done it already."

"Oh! Then it wasn't my advice, exactly, that you wanted."

"No!"

"And how did he take it?"

"He said he should be glad to make the exchange if I really didn't mind."
Burnamy had risen restlessly, and she did not ask him to stay. She merely
said:

"Oh, well, I'm glad it turned out so nicely."

"I'm so glad you think it was the thing to do." He managed to laugh
again, but he could not hide from her that he was not feeling altogether
satisfied. "Would you like me to send Mr. March, if I see him?" he asked,
as if he did not know on what other terms to get away.

"Do, please!" she entreated, and it seemed to her that he had hardly left
her when her husband came up. "Why, where in the world did he find you so
soon?"

"Did you send him for me? I was just hanging round for him to go." March
sank into the chair at her side. "Well, is he going to marry her?"

"Oh, you may laugh! But there is something very exciting!" She told him
what had happened, and of her belief that Burnamy's handsome behavior had
somehow not been met in kind.

March gave himself the pleasure of an immense laugh. "It seems to me that
this Mr. Burnamy of yours wanted a little more gratitude than he was
entitled to. Why shouldn't he have offered him the lower berth? And why
shouldn't the old gentleman have taken it just as he did? Did you want
him to make a counteroffer of his daughter's hand? If he does, I hope Mr.
Burnamy won't come for your advice till after he's accepted her."

"He wasn't very candid. I hoped you would speak about that. Don't you
think it was rather natural, though?"

"For him, very likely. But I think you would call it sinuous in some one
you hadn't taken a fancy to."

"No, no. I wish to be just. I don't see how he could have come straight
at it. And he did own up at last." She asked him what Burnamy had done
for the magazine, and he could remember nothing but that one small poem,
yet unprinted; he was rather vague about its value, but said it had
temperament.

"He has temperament, too," she commented, and she had made him tell her
everything he knew, or could be forced to imagine about Burnamy, before
she let the talk turn to other things.

The life of the promenade had already settled into seafaring form; the
steamer chairs were full, and people were reading or dozing in them with
an effect of long habit. Those who would be walking up and down had begun
their walks; some had begun going in and out of the smoking-room; ladies
who were easily affected by the motion were lying down in the music-room.
Groups of both sexes were standing at intervals along the rail, and the
promenaders were obliged to double on a briefer course or work slowly
round them. Shuffleboard parties at one point and ring-toss parties at
another were forming among the young people. It was as lively and it was
as dull as it would be two thousand miles at sea. It was not the least
cooler, yet; but if you sat still you did not suffer.

In the prompt monotony the time was already passing swiftly. The
deck-steward seemed hardly to have been round with tea and bouillon, and
he had not yet gathered up all the empty cups, when the horn for lunch
sounded. It was the youngest of the table-stewards who gave the summons
to meals; and whenever the pretty boy appeared with his bugle, funny
passengers gathered round him to make him laugh, and stop him from
winding it. His part of the joke was to fulfill his duty with gravity,
and only to give way to a smile of triumph as he walked off.


XI.

At lunch, in the faded excitement of their first meeting, the people at
the Marches' table did not renew the premature intimacy of their
breakfast talk. The Poetelische Act had only by the embarrassment, not by
true zahlungsunfaehig overindebtedness instantly become verstattet, by
assignment of his effects, the personal freedom to save for the really
overindebted but that was probably right sentence in addition points
alleviated, but this is mainly through half a millennium unchanged
been held, a first on the assets of bankrupt was directed against
only exceptionally, if the debtor is dead or its citizens deprived
of justice or was not accessible.

Caesar was the first man overindebted the right, nor what our current
bankruptcy rules are based: through formal assignment of the effects of
the creditors, they liked to their satisfaction or not enough, all
his personal freedom, albeit with diminished honor and political rights,
and deliver a new Vermoegensexistenz to start in which he made because
of the elder time came and bankrupt uninsured claims only could be
invoked if he could pay for it, without in turn, economic ruin. So when
the big Democrats promised eternal honor, personal freedom, the principle
of emancipating capital, so he also tried to transfer power to the
capital by usury laws also curb police. Democratic antipathy against the
Zinsvertraege also denied he is not. For the Italian monetary transactions,
a maximum sum of the individual capitalists to permit interest rate loans
found that after every competent Italic property seems to have addressed,
and perhaps half of the value was the same. Violations of this provision
was, according to the type of Republican in the usury laws prescribed
procedure, as criminal offenses and treated before a separate jury Commission
punished.

If it succeeded, those provisions in practice carry out, it was all
Italian business man is forced, especially also Italic landowners and
which are the only class of its interest zehrenden capitalists in Italy
disappeared entirely. Mittelbar was also the no less harmful category
of overindebted and the matter only for their creditors manage the estate
landowner materially limited by the creditors, if they wanted to interest
rate business continuity, were forced myself to anzukaufen. Even in this
way is it that Caesar no interest in that naïve old ban on the Popular
Party simply renew, but rather take the interest rate within certain
limits would allow. Very likely, but he must not be limited to just
those in Italy valid order of a maximum rate of the loan amount is limited,
but also, particularly with regard to the provinces, for the interest
itself Maximalsaetze prescribed. The dispositions that it was
inadmissible, higher interest rates than one per cent per month or
residues of interest rates or interest rates finally residues more than
the sum of capital equal to come from legal claims, were probably also
after Greek-Egyptian model ^ 25, in the Roman Empire, first by Lucius
Lucullus for Asia Minor and established daselbst his successors
maintained better, then soon extended to other provinces by governors
Regulations and finally take over at least a portion thereof by a
decision of the Roman Senate from the year 704 (50) with the force
of law in all provinces provide.

If these dispositions Lucullischen later in their entirety as an empire
by law to appear and the foundation of the Roman, or even today's
interest rates have become law, it may also perhaps to a provision
Caesars RECONSTITUTED be. ------------ -------------------------------------
^ 24 The king of Egypt laws (Diod. 1, 79) and just the right niche
solo (Plut.

Sol. 13, 15) precludes the bonds, which refers to the non-payment of the
loss of personal freedom of the debtor was set, and at least the latter
presented also in the case of bankruptcy, the debtor no more than
the assignment of its all assets. ^ At least 25 of the last sentence
returns to the ancient Egyptian king laws (Diod. 1, 79).

On the other hand, knows the right niche solo no Zinsbeschraenkungen,
allows much more explicitly, interest of any amount to see.
------------------------------- ------------------ hand in hand
with these efforts, the capital transfer of power to fight back,
were the efforts of industry in those bottom rail zurueckzuleiten
which the community was supportive.

Such was very much been the improvement of the judiciary and the police.
If nobody in Italy, his life and his movable or immovable property, was
when, for example, the Roman Bandenfuehrer in the intermediate times,
where their people are not in the capital helped make policy, in the
woods Etruria obgelegen the robbery or the Landgueter their
Soldherren through conquests arrondiert had, he had like fist right
now to an end, and especially the farming population of all classes
of which the charities had to feel effects.

Even Caesar's blueprints, which are not confined to the capital city,
were determined to intervene here, so should, for example, the
establishment of a convenient road from Rome Apenninenpaesse by the
Adriatic Sea to the inland transport Italic revive the Niedrigerlegung
of the lake Fucine marsischen peasantry benefited come. Solo also
directly attacked Caesar in economic conditions from Italy. The Italian
stock breeders was imposed, at least the third part of their
shepherds free-born adult citizens to space while being driven to
the bandits and free the proletariat in work was open source.

In the agrarian question was Caesar, who already in his first consulate
in the situation came to regulate, more comprehensible than Tiberius
Gracchus, not from the farm to restore at any cost, even at the
one under legal clauses hidden revolution against the property; him like
any other real statesman was much more than the first and inalienable
of all the political maxims of the safety of what property is or is
in the audience as the property is valid, and only within these limits,
he towed the uplift of the Italic Small ownership, which also him as
a matter of life of the nation appeared to accomplish. It did so much in
this relationship is done. Each private, property, or loved it dubbed
Erbbesitz hot on Gracchus to Sulla or back, it was strictly
respected.

In contrast, covering all real Domanialland in Italy, with the inclusion
of a considerable part in the hands of ecclesiastical guilds are legally
responsible to the state property, was adopted by Caesar, after he's
strictly economical, also in no small Verschleuderung and neglect by the
way duldenden Reawakening Zwanziger Commission issued a general revision
of the Italic tenures had held, for distribution in gracchanischer
determined, naturally insofar as it is suitable for agriculture -
the state due to the Apulian samnitischen summer and winter pastures
were also further domain, and it was at least the intention of the
Emperor, if this domain would not suffice, the more necessary in
the country by buying lots Italic from the treasury to obtain.

In the selection of the new farmers were naturally against all the serving
soldiers and taken into account as far as possible the burden which the
digging for the mother country was thus transformed into a blessing, that
the Caesar excavated proletarians as recruits him as a farmer returned,
remarkably, it is also that the desertified Latin communities,
such as Veii and Capena, preferably with new colonists have been
considered to be seem.

The rule of Caesar, that the new owner only after twenty years, the
power should be received to sell lands, was a happy middle ground
between the total of the munificent Veraeusserungsrechts the largest
part of the country's rapidly distributed into the hands of big
capitalists have RECONSTITUTED would, and the remaining restrictions
on the freedom of movement, as Tiberius Gracchus and Sulla, both
the same vain, has had.

So if the government will vigorously did the sick elements of Italian
folk life to remove and to strengthen the healthy, it should eventually
re - regulated Munizipalwesen after that, only recently out of the
crisis of the allies in war and in addition to the state system had
developed, the new absolute monarchy with her wholesome community
life indicate that stock and the circulation of the noblest elements
of public life to faster pulsations awaken.

As a guiding principle in the two in 705 (49) for the Cisalpinische Gaul,
in the year 709 (45) in Italy adopted municipal ordinances ^ 26, of
which the latter especially for the entire subsequent period was
the Basic Law, appears partly rigorous cleaning of the urban
Kollegienhaus by all the immoral elements of the political police
while no trace was found, partly to possible restrictions of
centralization and preferably free movement of the municipalities,
which is still the choice of officials and an albeit limited civil
and criminal jurisdiction remained.

The general police regulations, for example, the restrictions of the
Association right here, also attacked the place.
-------------------------------- -------------- ^ 26 Of the two
laws are considerable fragments still exist. -------------------------
--------------------- These are the rules by which Caesar attempted,
the Italian economy to reform.

It is easy both to demonstrate its shortcomings by also still a lot
of Uebelstaenden could exist, as well as evidence that they are
often harmful effect by providing the freedom movement to some very
sensitive level.

It is still easier to prove that the damage of the Italian economy
over all incurable nature.

Nevertheless, the practical statesman, the work as the master admired.
It was something that, where a man like Sulla, despairing of redress, with
a merely formal reorganization is merely had the evil at its actual seats
touched here and struggled with him was, and we may well judge that
Caesar with his reforms to the extent of the potential was so close
as to come to the statesman and the Romans had been. The rejuvenation
of Italy has it they can not expect nor expected, but rather on a
very different paths to reach sought to explain it is necessary,
first, the situation of the provinces, as she Caesar that interrupts
might be envisaged.

The provinces which Caesar that interrupts were fourteen at the number
seven european: the otherworldly and the Diesseits Spain; the Transalpinische
Gaul, the Gaul Italische with Illyricum, Macedonia with Greece,
Sicily, Sardinia with Corsica; five Asian: Asia; Bithynien and
Pontus; Kypros with Cilicia, Syria, Crete, and two African: Cyrene,
and Africa, including Caesar through the establishment of two new
activities of the governor Lugdunensischen Gaul and Belgium, and
by Illyricums constitution as a separate province, there are three
new Sprengel added ^ 27th ---- --------------------------------------
^ 27 Since a year after Caesar's order, and two sixteen Propraetoren
proconsuls in the Governor's activities are divided and the latter
two years in office were so close that you want the total number
of provinces to twenty intended to bring.

To a certainty, however, is here to be less to arrive, as Caesar, perhaps
less intentionally posts established as candidates.
---------------------------- -------------- In the regiment over
the provinces was the oligarchic mismanagement on a point here, as
least in the West, despite some respectable performances in this
compartment, no other government has ever achieved and where our
version of an increase in force no longer seems possible.

However, took the responsibility of Roemer is not alone. Almost everywhere
has had them before the Greek, Phoenician, or regiment of the Asian
peoples and the higher sense of justice and better times Freiheitsgefuehl
expelled.

It was probably bad that every accused provincials in Rome at the request
personally responsible are obligated to make was that the Roman
governor in any court and in the management of the communities
intervened, blood verdict and negotiation of the municipal-Tribune,
that he the event of war with the militias as they see fit, often
in ways schandbarer shifted, for example Cotta at the siege of the
Pontic Herakleia militia all dangerous items anwies to Italy to
save his, and, as the siege went not wish his work to the head
champions before the feet to be commanded.

It was probably bad, that no rule of morality or of the criminal law,
neither the Roman nor Voegte band and their entourage that rapes,
desecration and murder, with or without any form of rights in the
provinces were everyday appearances.

But it least it was not new: almost everywhere there was a slavish
treatment of a long lived and there was little in the end depends
on whether a Carthaginian Vogt, a Syrian Satrap or a Roman proconsul
played the local tyrants.

The physical well-being, rather the only, for which we in the
provinces still had meaning, was a result of those operations that
are in the many many tyrants, but only certain individuals were
much less disturbed than by all at the same time last financial
Exploitierung, with such energy but never even occurred.

The Romans established their old championship in the monetary system now
in this area in a horrific way. It's been tried earlier, the Roman
system of provincial load in his modest and circumspect in its bases,
such as growth and decay present. That the latter is progressively
increased, goes without saying the proper charges have been pushing through
the inequality of the distribution and control by the wrong as by lifting
its height.

About the Einquartierungslast expressed statesmanlike Roman saying
that a city of about the same amount of suffering when they storm
the enemy and when a Roman army in its winter quarters suppose.

During the taxation according to their original remuneration for the character
of the war burden of Rome had been controlled and the community therefore
had a right to, from regular service to stay spared, was now, for
example, has testified for Sardinia, the crew most of the Provincial
Service burden, and even in the regular army, except other services, the
entire heavy burden on the service tab it passed. The extraordinary
achievements, such as grain supplies at low or no compensation to the
best of the metropolitan proletariat, the frequent and costly Flottenruestungen
and beach defenses, in order to control piracy, the tasks, art,
wild beasts or other needs of the insane Roman theater and
animal-baiting herbeizuschaffen luxury, the military Requisitions
in the event of war, were just as oppressive and often unpredictable.

A single example may show how far things went. Triannual During the
administration of Sicily, Gaius Verres dropped by the number of
arable farmers in Leontinoi from 84 to 32, in Motuka of 187 to 86
in Herbita of 252 to 120, from 250 in Agyrion at 80, so that in
four of the most fertile districts of Sicily, of a hundred landowners
their 59 acres left fallow rather than under this regiment ordered.

And these were arable farmers, as their low numbers and also shows
explicitly told, in no small farmers, but handsome plantation
owners and the major part of Roman citizens!

Clientele in the states were the forms of taxation a little different,
but the burden may be even more anger, except that here the Romans
even the local Hoefer extorted.

In Cappadocia and Egypt was the farmer as the Koenig bankrupt and that
the tax collector, that the Roman creditors unable to satisfy. This
was because the actual blackmail the governor not only themselves but also
of his "friends", each of which is almost an instruction to the governor
said to have a right and, through him from the province as a return man-made.
The Roman oligarchy was like in this relationship Raeuberbande a
fully operational and the looting of the Provincial occupational
and handwerksmaessig: an efficient member grabbed the not too neatly,
as you so with the trustee and the jurors had to share and more to
the more secure stahl .

Also honored was the thieves have already been developed: the robber
looked great on the small, those on the thieves merely contemptuous
down, who once was sentenced miraculously, did great with the high
point of blackmailing him as a proven sums.

So in the offices wirtschafteten the successors of those men who by their
management not to bring home than usual thanks to the subjects and
the applause of their fellow citizens.

But perhaps even worse, and even less control of the Italian businessmen
lived among the unfortunate Provincial . the most lucrative pieces of
property and the entire trading and monetary system in the offices
concentrated in their hands.

The goods in the overseas territories, which make Italic belonged, were
all the misery and economic pressures managers never saw their Lord,
except about the hunting parks, which already at that time in Gaul
Transalpinischen with a Flaecheninhalt up nearly a square mile
German happen.

The Wucherei flourished as never before. The small Landeigentuemer in
Illyricum, Asia, Egypt wirtschafteten already Varros time actually
mostly as servants of their guilt or nichtroemischen Roman creditors,
ebenwie once plebeian for their interest patrician gentlemen. It came
before that capital itself municipalities to four per cent per month
were verborgt. It was somewhat used to the idea that an energetic and
influential business man to better operate their businesses either
by the Senate is the messenger-^ 28, or even governor of the officer
title and let give perhaps even this team, in a certified way, tells
a case where one of these noble warlike bankers because of a claim
to the city of Salamis in Kypros the same council in the City Hall
was blocked for so long, until the five council members had died
of hunger. ---- -------------------------------------------------
^ 28 This is the so-called "free legation" (libera legatio), namely
a legation without proper public procurement. ----------------------------
------------------------- This duplicated expression, each of which
alone was AN INTOLERABLE and their interaction is always better
regulated, then came the general tribulations added , but also those
of the Roman government to blame, in large part, albeit indirectly
contributed.

In the multiple wars were soon by the Barbarians, and soon by the
Roman armies big capital from the country weggeschleppt bigger and
depraved. The nullity of the Roman land and the river swarmed all
over it from farmers and pirates.
The flirting
itself, such as there was of it, must be carried on in the glare of the
pervasive publicity; it must be crude and bold, or not be at all.

There seemed to be very little of it. There were not many young people on
board of saloon quality, and these were mostly girls. The young men were
mainly of the smoking-room sort; they seldom risked themselves among the
steamer chairs. It was gayer in the second cabin, and gayer yet in the
steerage, where robuster emotions were operated by the accordion. The
passengers there danced to its music; they sang to it and laughed to it
unabashed under the eyes of the first-cabin witnesses clustered along the
rail above the pit where they took their rude pleasures.

With March it came to his spending many hours of each long, swift day in
his berth with a book under the convenient electric light. He was safe
there from the acquaintances which constantly formed themselves only to
fall into disintegration, and cling to him afterwards as inorganic
particles of weather-guessing, and smoking-room gossip about the ship's
run.

In the earliest hours of the voyage he thought that he saw some faces of
the great world, the world of wealth and fashion; but these afterward
vanished, and left him to wonder where they hid themselves. He did not
meet them even in going to and from his meals; he could only imagine them
served in those palatial state-rooms whose interiors the stewards now and
then rather obtruded upon the public. There were people whom he
encountered in the promenades when he got up for the sunrise, and whom he
never saw at other times; at midnight he met men prowling in the dark
whom he never met by day. But none of these were people of the great
world. Before six o'clock they were sometimes second-cabin passengers,
whose barrier was then lifted for a little while to give them the freedom
of the saloon promenade.

From time to time he thought he would look up his Ohioan, and revive from
a closer study of him his interest in the rare American who had never
been to Europe. But he kept with his elderly wife, who had the effect of
withholding him from March's advances. Young Mr. and Mrs. Leffers threw
off more and more their disguise of a long-married pair, and became
frankly bride and groom. They seldom talked with any one else, except at
table; they walked up and down together, smiling into each others faces;
they sat side by side in their steamer chairs; one shawl covered them
both, and there was reason to believe that they were holding each other's
hands under it.

Mrs. Adding often took the chair beside Mrs. March when her husband was
straying about the ship or reading in his berth; and the two ladies must
have exchanged autobiographies, for Mrs. March was able to tell him just
how long Mrs. Adding had been a widow, what her husband died of, and what
had been done to save him; how she was now perfectly wrapt up in her boy,
and was taking him abroad, with some notion of going to Switzerland,
after the summer's travel, and settling down with him at school there.
She and Mrs. March became great friends; and Rose, as his mother called
him, attached himself reverently to March, not only as a celebrity of the
first grade in his quality of editor of 'Every Other Week', but as a sage
of wisdom and goodness, with whom he must not lose the chance of counsel
upon almost every hypothesis and exigency of life.

March could not bring himself to place Burnamy quite where he belonged in
contemporary literature, when Rose put him very high in virtue of the
poem which he heard Burnamy was going to have printed in 'Every Other
Week', and of the book which he was going to have published; and he let
the boy bring to the young fellow the flattery which can come to any
author but once, in the first request for his autograph that Burnamy
confessed to have had. They were so near in age, though they were ten
years apart, that Rose stood much more in awe of Burnamy than of others
much more his seniors. In the event that he is attacking you or the
slightest resistance should I give you back your promise. (Leutnant.) My
promise? I have promised nothing. - Look! They are exactly the same as
your brother grated .-- You have me by the better side of my nature
to cheat. And what about my horse?

(Dame.) It is included in our agreement that your horse and your guns be
returned. (Leutnant.) On your honor? (Dame.) On my honor! (It reaches his
hand.) (Lieutenant recorded it and keep it fixed:) It's! I will be
with him gentle as a lamb around .-- His sister is a very pretty woman.
(He tries to kiss.) (Dame entschlüpfend him:) O Lord Lieutenant, you
forget - it's about your career - with the fate of Europe - perhaps of
mankind ... (Leutnant.) What Shear me the fate of humanity! (According
to your setting:) Just a kiss!

(Dame runs back behind the table:) Not before your honor officers have
recovered. Remember - even my brother is not your prisoner! (Lieutenant
seductive:) You will tell me where he is - is not it? (Dame.) I need him
only an agreed number to send and it will appear in an hour here. (Leutnant.)
Then he is not at all so far? (Dame.) No - actually very close. Wait here
for him, once he gets my message, he will immediately hierhereilen to show
you - you understand now? (Lieutenant whose mind demands that:) Well,
the thing is a little complicated, but I hope it will have everything
in order. (Dame.)
She spoke of going out with her father for
an indefinite time, as if it were rather his wish than hers, and she made
some inquiries about places in Germany; they had never been in Germany.
They had some idea of Dresden; but the idea of Dresden with its American
colony seemed rather tiresome; and did Mrs. March know anything about
Weimar?

Mrs. March was obliged to say that she knew nothing about anyplace in
Germany; and she explained perhaps too fully where and why she was going
with her husband. She fancied a Boston note in that scorn for the
tiresomeness of Dresden; but the girl's style was of New York rather than
of Boston, and her accent was not quite of either place. Mrs. March began
to try the Triscoes in this place and in that, to divine them and to
class them. She had decided from the first that they were society people,
but they were cultivated beyond the average of the few swells whom she
had met; and there had been nothing offensive in their manner of holding
themselves aloof from the other people at the table; they had a right to
do that if they chose.

When the young Lefferses came in to breakfast, the talk went on between
these and the Marches; the Triscoes presently left the table, and Mrs.
March rose soon after, eager for that discussion of their behavior which
March knew he should not be able to postpone.

He agreed with her that they were society people, but she could not at
once accept his theory that they had themselves been the objects of an
advance from them because of their neutral literary quality, through
which they were of no social world, but potentially common to any. Later
she admitted this, as she said, for the sake of argument, though what she
wanted him to see, now, was that this was all a step of the girl's toward
finding out something about Burnamy.

The same afternoon, about the time the deck-steward was making his round
with his cups, Miss Triscoe abruptly advanced upon her from a neighboring
corner of the bulkhead, and asked, with the air of one accustomed to have
her advances gratefully received, if she might sit by her. The girl took
March's vacant chair, where she had her cup of bouillon, which she
continued to hold untasted in her hand after the first sip. Mrs. March
did the same with hers, and at the moment she had got very tired of doing
it, Burnamy came by, for the hundredth time that day, and gave her a
hundredth bow with a hundredth smile. He perceived that she wished to get
rid of her cup, and he sprang to her relief.

"May I take yours too?" he said very passively to Miss Triscoe.

"You are very good." she answered, and gave it.

Mrs. March with a casual air suggested, "Do you know Mr. Burnamy, Miss
Triscoe?" The girl said a few civil things, but Burnamy did not try to
make talk with her while he remained a few moments before Mrs. March. The
pivotal girl came in sight, tilting and turning in a rare moment of
isolation at the corner of the music-room, and he bowed abruptly, and
hurried off to join her.

Miss Triscoe did not linger; she alleged the necessity of looking up her
father, and went away with a smile so friendly that Mrs. March might
easily have construed it to mean that no blame attached itself to her in
Miss Triscoe's mind.

"Then you don't feel that it was a very distinct success?" her husband
asked on his return.

"Not on the surface," she said.

"Better let ill enough alone," he advised.

She did not heed him. "All the same she cares for him. The very fact that
she was so cold shows that."

The plan of democracy was ebendarauf addressed him this weight
overnight, and to deprive him in their main military rival to the
side to make.

He never was allowed to enter into this, least of all but a man
like Caesar, who was a mere political agitator him enough to create,
and just in Spain, the evidence also brilliant military capacity
had given himself to a Mr.

Oberfeld body breakthrough.

Solo on the other side was a result of the vexatious opposition of the
Senate and the indifferent quantity for Pompey and Pompey 'wishes, his
position, including his old soldiers gegenueber so embarrassing and so
humble, that when his character was probably expected, at the cost of the
proceeds from this uncomfortable situation for him such a coalition
to win.

But what is known as the Knights Party is concerned, it was all over this
because, where the power was understood and it is obvious that
they will not be long in coming, if they Pompey and democracy anew
to unite earnestly looked.

It was added that due to the way Cato very laudable rigor against the high
financial Steuerpaechter just now back to the Senate in fierce
Hader was.

This was in the summer of 694 (60) completed the second coalition.

Caesar left the consulate for the following year and soon the governorship
promise; Pompey was the ratification of its dispositions made in
the east and lands on the instructions of the soldiers of the Asian
army promised; of knighthood Caesar also promised that what the
Senate had refused her by the residents to give; Crassus finally,
the inevitable, at least allowed to join the league, albeit without
the candidate for which he could not refuse, to obtain specific
commitments.

It was exactly the same elements, so the same people who in the autumn
of 683 (71) and in the summer of 684 (70) joined together the federal
government, but how were so different then and now but the parties!

At that time, democracy is nothing more than a political party, its
allies winning at the forefront of their standing armies, military,
now was the leader of the Democrats become a sieggekroenter of great
military draft being fulfilled Emperor, the German former comrade
generals without an army.

At the time, won the democratic principles in question and gave this award
to the highest Staatsaemter its two allies, but now she has become
a practical and took the highest civil and military power for
themselves, while only minor things, the allies made concessions,
and significant enough Pompey did not even 'old demand of a second
consulate has been taken into account.

Then there is the democracy that its allies now had to confide in
her.

All relationships are completely changed, but most of the nature
of democracy itself Probably had the same, since you ever been in
the innermost core monarchical element is borne solely of the ideal
constitution, as its best brains in more or less distinct outline
in mind, but always remained a bourgeois community, a state
perikleische order in which the power was based Fuersten that he
residents in the finest and most perfect way and took the most
perfect and most precious part of the guarantee their right of
confidence in man recognized him.

Even Caesar is expected from such views, but there were now once ideals
that seem to influence the reality, but not quite been realized.

Neither the ordinary citizens of violence, such as Gaius Gracchus they
possessed, nor the armament of the Democratic Party, as Cinna, albeit very
weak in nature, had tried to curb in the Roman community as a constant
focus is to say, not for a party but for a commander of the army
fencing machine, the raw power of the Condottieri showed up after
it first in the service of the restoration on the scene was taken,
and soon all the political parties necessarily superior.

Even Caesar had in the practical activity of this party to convince
and then ripened in him the fateful decision to this army machine
itself to its ideals of service and the community as he helped in
the sense that Condottiergewalt up.

In this intention he finished in the year 683 (71) the covenant with the
generals of the opposing party, who, notwithstanding the same
Democratic program was accepted, but the democracy and Caesar himself
to the brink of destruction led.

For the same purpose came eleven years later he himself than on Condotti.
It happened in both cases with a certain naivety, with the good
faith in the possibility of a free community where no alien, but
by his own saber coverage can be.

You can see it without effort, that this belief and that no one deceive the
evil spirit of the servant, without his servant to be, but the greatest
men are those who least wrong. If even after millennia we tend reverently
before us because of what Caesar wanted and has done so, the cause
is not that he sought a crown, and won, which is in itself so little
something big is like the crown itself, but rather that his powerful
ideal: a free society under a ruler - and never left him as a monarch
he has kept it in the nasty kingdom to sink.

Without difficulty was united by the parties to the election of Caesar
consul for the year 695 (59) enforced . The aristocracy had to be satisfied
by a course in this time of deepest corruption sensational
vote-buying, what the whole Mr.

Booth shot the funds together, him in the person of Marcus Bibulus a
colleague zuzugesellen whose narrow stubbornness in conservative circles
as their energy was considered to its goodwill at least it was not
when the lord their patriotic displays not herausbekamen.

As consul Caesar first brought his allies desire to negotiate, under which
the land order to the veterans of the Asian army by far the most
important. That to this end of Caesar Field Act was designed in
general to determine the guiding principles, as the year before in
Pompey 'brought in contract, but failed bill was drawn up. For the
distribution was only the Italic Domanialland determined, which means much
of the territory of Capua, and, if this is not enough, other Italic
property consisting of the proceeds of the new eastern provinces to
the censors in the lists should be purchased Taxationswert all existing
property and therefore Erbbesitzrechte remained unchanged.

The individual plots were small. The poor should Landempfaenger citizens,
fathers of at least three children, the principle concern that the
military's claim to land there, was not established, but there were just
as cheap and at all times had happened, the old soldiers, and not Thus,
the less Zeitpaechter the Landausteilern preferably, to take into
account is recommended.

The design was a commission of twenty men transferred into the Caesar
determined declared herself not choose to want to leave. The opposition
to this proposal had a severe standard, it did not reasonably deny
that the state's finances after the establishment of the provinces of
Pontus and Syria had to be able to lease the Campanian to waive fees, but
that it was irresponsible, one of the most beautiful and also excellent
for small possession of Italy appropriate District to private transport
to escape, that it finally just as unjust was ridiculous, even
now, after the extension of the civil right to all of Italy to the town
of Capua Munizipalrechte authors.

The entire proposal bore the stamp of moderation, of honesty and solidarity,
which very cleverly of the Democratic Party was linked character,
because essentially the same but ran out on the restoration of the
Marian period of time and of Sulla wiederaufgehobenen capuanischen
colony.

Also observed in the form of Caesar every possible consideration. He
presented the draft law field, and also approved the application by
Pompey in the east issued injunctions in lock, stock and barrel to ratify
and to petition the Steuerpaechter discount of one third of the
rental amounts, first to the Senate for review and declared its
readiness to receive Abaenderungsvorschlaege and discuss.

The college now had the opportunity to testify about how foolish it had
acted, by refusing this request Pompey and the Knights Party of the
opponent into the arms to drive. Perhaps it was the calm feeling of
this, the high-born men to be the loudest and with the Caesar held
occurrence Uebel contrasting barking drove the opponent.

The Field Act was easy and they even rejected without discussion.
The decision about Pompeius' bodies found in Asia, nor mercy in front
of their eyes.

The application with regard to the Cato Steuerpaechter tried after the
custom of the Roman unloeblichen parliamentarianism totzusprechen, ie
up to the statutory closing hour of the meeting his speech
fortzuspinnen; Caesar as mine did, the man arrested stoerrigen to
leave was eventually rejected this request.

Naturally went Now all requests to the residents. Without turning away from
the truth to be removed, Caesar was able to tell the crowd that
the Senate, the reasonable and necessary, in the respectful form
of suggestions put to him, merely because it is the democratic
consul came despicable rejected.

When he added that the aristocrats had said a plot spun to the rejection
of applications to emerge and the residents, including himself, and Pompey's
old soldiers, calling violence against cunning and help him, it was too
far out of thin air .

The aristocracy, led by the stubborn nitwit Bibulus and steadfast
Prinzipiennarr Cato, had, in fact, the thing to manifest violence
to drive.

Pompey, led by Caesar, is about his position on the question obschwebenden
out, said bluntly, as otherwise it was not his nature that if
someone should dare, to the sword zuecken, even after he and his
then take the shield is not at home can be well said of Crassus.

Pompeius' old soldiers have been instructed on the day of the vote,
the yes First they were concerned, with numerous weapons under the
clothes in the voting square to appear.

The nobility still had no means untried to requests to thwart Caesar. On
each day when Caesar appeared before the nation, noted his colleague,
the well-known political Bibulus weather observations that all
public stores under collapsed; Caesar took care of the sky, but
went on to his earthly business.

The tribunizische Interzession was filed; Caesar did, they must not
be used.

Bibulus and jumped at the Cato Rednertribuene, harangierten the crowd and
led the riot habitual; Caesar did it by minions of the court hinwegfuehren
markets and, incidentally, to ensure that no harm was done to them
- it was also in his interest that the political comedy remained
what it was.

Everything and anything harassment Folterns regardless of the
nobility were the arable Act, the confirmation of the Asian
organizations and the discount for the Steuerpaechter by the
residents, which Zwanziger Commission, at its peak Pompey and
Crassus, and chosen in their office set up with all their efforts
the aristocracy had achieved nothing more than that their blind and
insubordination, the nasty gang of the coalition still considered
solid and their energy, which it soon. more important things need
to be in these matters basically indifferent had exhausted itself.

They congratulated themselves on the proven heroism; explained that
Bibulus had rather die than to try to smooth that Cato is still in
the hands of the beadle had continued to perorieren were great
patriotic deeds, the way it showed itself in his fate.

The consul Bibulus joined for the remaining part of the year in his
house, where he also known by the public attack made that he had
the pious intention, at all this year, demotic assemblies suitable
days of heavenly signs to peek.

His colleagues admired again the great man who, just like the old Ennius
by Fabius said that "the state save by procrastination," and as
he did, and most of the same, including Cato, appeared no longer
in the Senate and helped within their four walls to their Consul
annoying that the political astronomy to history, despite the world
continued.

The audience seemed that passivity of the consul and the aristocracy
over how cheap even as a political Abdikation, and the coalition
was naturally very happy that they are the next steps had to do
almost undisturbed.

The most important of which was to regulate the future position of
Caesar.

Was constitutional if it to the Senate, the powers of the second consular
office after year before the election of consuls noted accordingly he had
also, in anticipation of the election of Caesar, for about 696
(58) chosen two provinces in which the governor was to be nothing
more than road construction and the like useful things.

Of course, it could not be altered; it was identified among the
allies that Caesar, an unusual pattern of after-Gabin Manil laws
tailored command received by people should be concluded. Caesar, however,
had publicly declared not to apply to his own benefit to try to
bring; Volkstribun of Publius Vatinius assumed, therefore, at the
request of residents to make the course absolutely obeyed.

Caesar received by the governorship of Gaul cisalpinischen and the
supreme command of the three daselbst are already in the border war
between Lucius Afranius tested legions, also rank propraetorischen
for his aide, as he had had Pompeianischen; to five years, on longer
time than ever formerly a principal over a specified period of time
Limited had been appointed captain, he was assured that Office.

The core of his governorship was the Transpadaner, for years already,
in the hope of civil rights, clients of the Democratic Party in Rome and
Caesar's in particular. His jurisdiction extended to the south Arnus
and Rubico and closed Ravenna and Luca On. Subsequently it was still the
province with one Narbo daselbst are legion Caesar's consular district
added, suggesting Pompeius' request of the Senate decided, at least not
by this command extraordinary residents Caesar decision to go over to
see. It was so what we wanted. Since the actual constitutionality of
Italy no troops were allowed to stand, then dominated the
norditalischen and commander of the Gallic legions to the next five
years, while Italy and Rome, and who in five years, is also Lord
of life.

Caesar's consulate had achieved its purpose. It is understood that the
new rulers not incidentally, failed to give the quantity and merry
games of all kinds in a good mood to get and that they took every
opportunity, to fill their cash, such as, for example, because the
king of Egypt of the People's conclusion that the him as the
legitimate ruler recognized by the Coalition to high price was sold,
as well as other municipalities and Dynastes free letters and
privileges acquired on this occasion.

Even the durability of the facilities seemed taken sufficiently
secured.

The Consulate was at least for the next year entrusted to safe hands.
The audience initially thought that Pompey and Crassus himself was
determined, and the rulers were there before, however, two minor,
but reliable men of their party, Aulus Gabinius, the best among
Pompeius' aide, and Lucius Piso, the less important, but Caesars
father was, for 696 (58) to choose to be consuls.

Pompey took it personally, Italy to guard, where he was at the top of
the Twenties Commission the implementation of the arable farm law, and
against 20,000 citizens, mostly old soldiers from his army, in the areas
of land equipped with Capua; as backing against the opposition
metropolitan served him Caesars norditalische legions. At a fraction of
the power itself was initially least no prospect. The Caesar as consul
laws, which maintain Pompey was located at least as much as Caesar,
guaranteed the continuation of the schism between Pompey and the
aristocracy, whose peaks, named Cato, were continued, the laws should be
treated as void, and thus the survival of coalition.

It was added that the personal ties between its leaders are close
zusammenzogen.

He tried to engage them in the tally which began to
be general in the excitement of having touched land; but they shyly held
aloof.

Some English newspapers had come aboard from the tug, and there was the
usual good-natured adjustment of the American self-satisfaction, among
those who had seen them, to the ever-surprising fact that our continent
is apparently of no interest to Europe. There were some meagre New York
stock-market quotations in the papers; a paragraph in fine print
announced the lynching of a negro in Alabama; another recorded a
coal-mining strike in Pennsylvania.

"I always have to get used to it over again," said Kenby. "This is the
twentieth time I have been across, and I'm just as much astonished as I
was the first, to find out that they don't want to know anything about us
here."

"Oh," said March, "curiosity and the weather both come from the west. San
Francisco wants to know about Denver, Denver about Chicago, Chicago about
New York, and New York about London; but curiosity never travels the
other way any more than a hot wave or a cold wave."

"Ah, but London doesn't care a rap about Vienna," said Kenby.

"Well, some pressures give out before they reach the coast, on our own
side. It isn't an infallible analogy."

Triscoe was fiercely chewing a morsel, as if in haste to take part in the
discussion. He gulped it, and broke out. "Why should they care about us,
anyway?"

March lightly ventured, "Oh, men and brothers, you know."

"That isn't sufficient ground. The Chinese are men and brothers; so are
the South-Americans and Central-Africans, and Hawaiians; but we're not
impatient for the latest news about them. It's civilization that
interests civilization."

"I hope that fact doesn't leave us out in the cold with the barbarians?"
Burnamy put in, with a smile.

"Do you think we are civilized?" retorted the other.

"We have that superstition in Chicago," said Burnamy. He added, still
smiling, "About the New-Yorkers, I mean."

"You're more superstitious in Chicago than I supposed. New York is an
anarchy, tempered by vigilance committees."

"Oh, I don't think you can say that," Kenby cheerfully protested, "since
the Reformers came in. Look at our streets!"

"Yes, our streets are clean, for the time being, and when we look at them
we think we have made a clean sweep in our manners and morals. But how
long do you think it will be before Tammany will be in the saddle again?"

"Oh, never in the world!" said the optimistic head of the table.

"I wish I had your faith; or I should if I didn't feel that it is one of
the things that help to establish Tammanys with us. You will see our
Tammany in power after the next election." Kenby laughed in a
large-hearted incredulity; and his laugh was like fuel to the other's
flame. "New York is politically a mediaeval Italian republic, and it's
morally a frontier mining-town. Socially it's--" He stopped as if he
could not say what.

"I think it's a place where you have a very nice time, papa," said his
daughter, and Burnamy smiled with her; not because he knew anything about
it.

Her father went on as if he had not heard her. "It's as vulgar and crude
as money can make it. Nothing counts but money, and as soon as there's
enough, it counts for everything. Here, he cried himself to the Consul, and
took a wait position to the first notification of the outbreak of
a Insurrektion in the capital, the troops in motion against the
same set.

The government declared the two guides Catiline and Manlius, and those of
their comrades, not up to a certain day the weapons would have
resigned, and eight in the new militia called out, but at the head
of the army against Catiline was tuned to the Consul Gaius Antonius,
who notoriously implicated in the conspiracy was, and whose character
is be depended on chance, if his troops against Catiline or will
feed him.

It seemed almost designed to have made this a second Antonius Lepidus
to make.

Nor promised to intervene against the backwardness in the capital, head of
the conspiracy, although anyone with fingers pointed at them and
Insurrektion in the capital of the Verschworenen nothing less than
abandoned, but still the same plan of Catiline himself before his
departure from Rome had been .

A tribune should an appeal by the People's Assembly to mark the night that
the Consul Cicero Cethegus out of the way spaces, and Gabinius
Statilius the city at twelve points simultaneously in the fire and
the armies Catilinas been used in as the connection speed will be
produced.

Cethegus had said 'urgent requests fruit and Lentulus, after the departure
Catilinas to the top of the Verschworenen was asked to be hit
quickly resolved, so the conspiracy could still succeed.

The Konspiratoren were just as incompetent and FEIG well as their opponents;
verflossen weeks and there has been no decision. Finally led the
counter-mine they came. In his expansive and happy to tardiness in the
next and necessary by designing distant and far-sighted plans
covering type Lentulus had just deal with the deputies in Rome
attending a Keltengaus of ALLOBROGES, and these appeared, the
representative of a thoroughly dysfunctional community itself and
deep in debt, tried in the conspiracy to implicate even help them
with their departure, messengers and letters to the confidant to
remove.

The ALLOBROGES left Rome, but were on the night of 2 on the 3rd December
hard on the gates of the Roman authorities stopped them and their
papers accepted. It was shown that the ALLOBROGES deputies to the Roman
government spies away and the only reason why the negotiations
had led to the desired Beweisstuecke this against the main leader
of the conspiracy in the hands to play.

In the morning it was by Cicero in as silence Verhaftsbefehle against
the most dangerous leader of the conspiracy against adopt and Lentulus,
Cethegus, Gabinius and Statilius also completed, while some others
by the flight of the Festnehmung escaped.

The guilt of the measures such as the volatile was totally evident.

Triscoe said, "That is all right, my dear sir. May I ask your regiment?"

The Marches let the old fellows walk away together, followed by the wife
of the one and the daughter of the other. They saw the young girl making
some graceful overtures of speech to the elder woman as they went.

"That was rather fine, my dear," said Mrs. March.

"Well, I don't know. It was a little too dramatic, wasn't it? It wasn't
what I should have expected of real life."

"Oh, you spoil everything! If that's the spirit you're going through
Europe in!"

"It isn't. As soon as I touch European soil I shall reform."


XVI.

That was not the first time General Triscoe had silenced question of his
opinions with the argument he had used upon Eltwin, though he was seldom
able to use it so aptly. He always found that people suffered, his belief
in our national degeneration much more readily when they knew that he had
left a diplomatic position in Europe (he had gone abroad as secretary of
a minor legation) to come home and fight for the Union. Against the Hauptheer
the attack had now abated and we just rested like. When finally, the
absence of any notification from the Corps posted it from the deceptive
calm aufschreckte and it kept the same, the Walstatt approached, the
father was the head of the son to take an opposite pole, and again began
Hauptheer against the horrific slaughter , with the same vehemence and
the same hopeless uniformity. It could neither Lanze riders to blow
yet to reach the shooters, and only made the night the killings to an end.
Had the Parthians on the battlefield biwakiert, it would be difficult
for the Roman army a man escape. Solo is not practiced, unlike Mounted
to fight, and so worried about the case before, they had the habit, never
to be tough on enemies store; sneeringly called them to the Romans
that the commander gave a night to meet his son to Mourning, and
hunted them to the next morning wiederzukehren and bleeding on the
ground game cushion.

Of course the Romans were waiting for the morning did not.
The sub captains Cassius and Octavius - Crassus himself had entirely lost
his head - and immediately came in as quiet, with abandonment of all -
allegedly 4000 - wounded and scattered, still marching people to start
to enter the walls of Karrhae to seek protection. That the Parthians,
when she returned the following day, first made in it, which scatters
Zurueckgelassenen reside and niederzumetzeln, and that the crew and the
population of Karrhae by outliers from an early disaster in the knowledge
that ringing of the beaten army entgegengerueckt were rescued the
rubble in front of the same, as it seemed inevitable destruction.

Send to a siege of Karrhae could parthischen riders flocked not think. Solo
soon broke the Romans voluntarily, either through lack of food forced,
whether as a result of the despondent Uebereilung Oberfeld the Lord,
which the soldiers had tried in vain by the command to remove and replace
by Cassius.
She had no duties,
but she seldom got out of humor with her pleasures; she had some odd
tastes of her own, and in a society where none but the most serious books
were ever seriously mentioned she was rather fond of good ones, and had
romantic ideas of a life that she vaguely called bohemian. With this turned
the battle. Saburra was not, as you said, without backing, but not much
more than a German mile away from the main numidischen power. Already met
the core of the folk numidischen foot and 2000 Gallic and Spanish
rider on the battlefield in order to support Saburra, and the king
himself with the bulk of the army and sixteen elephants were on the
way.

After the Night march and the battle was heated by the Roman cavalry currently
not much more than 200 together, and these, and the infantry of the strains
and the fencing to the extreme exhausted, all in the broad plain in which
we were lured into, rings included the stocks of the more hostile crowds.
Curio looked in vain, to handle common, and the Libyan Reiter diverged
as they used, and a Roman department was experiencing, um, when they
reversed it to pursue. In vain he tried to recover the heights, they
were by the enemy cavalry occupied and blocked. It was all lost. The
People's Foot niedergehauen was up to the last man from the cavalry
succeeded in each durchzuschlagen; Curio and would have probably
managed to save, but he endured it not, without the army entrusted
to him alone before his master to appear, and died with the sword
in his hand.

Even the team in the camp joined in Utica, and the fleet's personnel,
which is so easy to Sicily would have could be rescued, were under the
impression of rapid disaster terribly important to the day Varus (August
or September 705 49). Thus ends Caesar ordered the sizilisch-African
expedition. It achieved its purpose inasmuch as by the occupation of
Sicily in conjunction with the least of Sardinia to the most urgent
need of capital was rectified, and the thwarted conquest of Africa, from
which the victorious party no further significant gain was , and the
loss of two unreliable legions could live with.

But an irreplaceable loss for Caesar, even for Rome, was Curios earlier
death. Not without cause did Caesar which military and inexperienced
because of his life Lotter appointed young man is the most important
independent command entrusted to it was a spark of Caesar's own fiery
spirit in the lad. He, too, as Caesar had the cup of pleasure
to the yeast emptied, but he was not a matter of state man because he was
chief, but it gave him his political activities by the sword in his hand,
but his eloquence was not the rounded periods, but the eloquence of
deep thought, but rested on his Kriegfuehrung the rapid action with limited
resources, but its essence was easily and often recklessly, graceful
frankness and life at the moment.

If, as his captain he says, youth and high courage to fire him imprudence
hinrissen and if he, not one to be forgiven for mistakes to be forgiven,
too proud of the deaths took so missing moments equal imprudence and
equal pride in Caesar's story is not . One may deplore it, that this
infectious nature was not permitted, auszuschaeumen and kept for the
following talent so poor beggar, the terrible regiment of mediocrity
so rapidly decaying generation.

The extent to which these Kriegsvorgaenge the year 705 (49) in Pompey
'general intervened campaign plan, including what role in this after
the loss of Italy's major Heereskoerpern was allocated in the West, can
only conjecture as to determine. The fact that Pompey had the intention,
his sword in Spain the army on land about Africa and Mauritania to help
to come, it was nothing but a camp of Ilerda adventurous walk, and no
doubt quite unfounded rumors.

A more likely explanation is that he in his earlier plan, this Caesar in
Gaul, and beyond two pages to attack, even after the loss of Italy
still maintained and a combined attack by both Spain and Macedonia from
intended. Presumably, the Spanish army for so long in the Pyrenees to
behave defensively, to the organizational concept in the
Macedonian was also marching, after which both broken at the same
time and, depending on the circumstances, either the Rhone or the Po,
the hands with, the fleet at the same time probably would have tried
to reclaim real Italy. In this condition, it seems, had Caesar First
expected to made an attack on Italy to deal with. One of the most
stalwart of his officers, the Volkstribun Marcus Antonius, commanded
propraetorischer here with violence.

He sank comfortably
back, and put up his weary legs on the chair's extension with the
conviction that love had no such joy as that to offer.

"I've decided that they're intensely interested in each other."

"Then what more can we ask of them? And why do you care what they do or
don't do with their chance? Why do you wish their love well, if it's
that? Is marriage such a very certain good?"

"It isn't all that it might be, but it's all that there is. What would
our lives have been without it?" she retorted.

"Oh, we should have got on. It's such a tremendous risk that we, ought to
go round begging people to think twice, to count a hundred, or a
nonillion, before they fall in love to the marrying-point. I don't mind
their flirting; that amuses them; but marrying is a different thing. I
doubt if Papa Triscoe would take kindly to the notion of a son-in-law he
hadn't selected himself, and his daughter doesn't strike me as a young
lady who has any wisdom to throw away on a choice. She has her little
charm; her little gift of beauty, of grace, of spirit, and the other
things that go with her age and sex; but what could she do for a fellow
like Burnamy, who has his way to make, who has the ladder of fame to
climb, with an old mother at the bottom of it to look after? You wouldn't
want him to have an eye on Miss Triscoe's money, even if she had money,
and I doubt if she has much. It's all very pretty to have a girl like her
fascinated with a youth of his simple traditions; though Burnamy isn't
altogether pastoral in his ideals, and he looks forward to a place in the
very world she belongs to. I don't think it's for us to promote the
affair."

"Well, perhaps you're right," she sighed. "I will let them alone from
this out. Thank goodness, I shall not have them under my eyes very long."

"Oh, I don't think there's any harm done yet," said her husband, with a
laugh.

At dinner there seemed so little harm of the kind he meant that she
suffered from an illogical disappointment. The young people got through
the meal with no talk that seemed inductive; Burnamy left the table
first, and Miss Triscoe bore his going without apparent discouragement;
she kept on chatting with March till his wife took him away to their
chairs on deck.

There were a few more ships in sight than there were in mid-ocean; but
the late twilight thickened over the North Sea quite like the night after
they left New York, except that it was colder; and their hearts turned to
their children, who had been in abeyance for the week past, with a
remorseful pang. "Well," she said, "I wish we were going to be in New York
to-morrow, instead of Hamburg."

"Oh, no! Oh, no!" he protested. "Not so bad as that, my dear. This is the
last night, and it's hard to manage, as the last night always is. I
suppose the last night on earth--"

"Basil!" she implored.

"Well, I won't, then. But what I want is to see a Dutch lugger. I've
never seen a Dutch lugger, and--"

She suddenly pressed his arm, and in obedience to the signal he was
silent; though it seemed afterwards that he ought to have gone on talking
as if he did not see Burnamy and Miss Triscoe swinging slowly by. They
were walking close together, and she was leaning forward and looking up
into his face while he talked.

"Now," Mrs. March whispered, long after they were out of hearing, "let us
go instantly. I wouldn't for worlds have them see us here when they get
found again. They would feel that they had to stop and speak, and that
would spoil everything. Come!"


XVII.

Burnamy paused in a flow of autobiography, and modestly waited for Miss
Triscoe's prompting. He had not to wait long.

"And then, how soon did you think of printing your things in a book?"

"Oh, about as soon as they began to take with the public."

"How could you tell that they were-taking?"

"They were copied into other papers, and people talked about them."

"And that was what made Mr. Stoller want you to be his secretary?"

"I don't believe it was. The theory in the office was that he didn't
think much of them; but he knows I can write shorthand, and put things
into shape."

"What things?"

"Oh--ideas. He has a notion of trying to come forward in politics. He
owns shares in everything but the United States Senate--gas, electricity,
railroads, aldermen, newspapers--and now he would like some Senate.
That's what I think."

She did not quite understand, and she was far from knowing that this
cynic humor expressed a deadlier pessimism than her father's fiercest
accusals of the country. "How fascinating it is!" she said, innocently.

"And I suppose they all envy your coming out?"

"In the office?"

"Yes. I should envy, them--staying."

Burnamy laughed. "I don't believe they envy me. A. Letronne, Recueil of
Inscriptions latines grecque et de l'Egypte. Vol 2, Paris 1848, p. 20),
where his fund is still very well could be in Tyros. It is however the
fact that the second Alexander the last real Lagide was as similar to the
acquisitions of Cyrene Pergamon and Rome Bithynien always the last
legitimate offspring of the ruling family is established.

The old state law, as least for the Roman clientele States has been decisive,
it seems that the regents wills right over his empire not only in
the absence of beneficiaries Agnaten allowed to have.

See Gutschmids note to the German translation by P. Sharpe, History of
Egypt. Bd 2, p. 17 Whether this is true or false testament was, is and
that's also quite indifferent, special reasons, to be a forgery, is not
available. ----------------------- ------------------------------ Less
Will it be justified that the Senate is omitted in the Asia Minor
and Syrian affairs immediately intervene .

The Roman government recognized the Armenian Although not as conqueror
king of Cappadocia, and Syria to, but they did nothing but to make
it back, how close is the war they 676 (78) forced into Cilicia
against the pirates began their particular the intervention in Syria
presented.

In fact they were by the loss of Cappadocia and Syria without a war
declaration accepting, not just their Schutzbefohlenen, but the
main bases of their own position of power price.

It was already a concern when they enter the Greek settlements and
the rich on the Euphrates and the Tigris Vorwerk sacrificed their
rule, but if they are the Asians in the Mediterranean had set itself,
which is the political base of their empire, so this was not a proof
of love of peace but the commitment that the oligarchy by Sullanische
probably oligarchic restoration, but no wiser had become even more
forcefully, and for the Roman world of the beginning of the end.

On the other hand, wanted the war is not. Tigran did not cause him to wish
him well when Rome all his war without allies disclosure. Mithradates,
but since the Sultan was not merely an opportunity and had had
enough, the experience of happiness and unhappiness about friends
and enemies to make knew very well that he, in a second Roman war
most likely would stand alone as well as in the first and that he
could do nothing smarter than to behave calmly, and his kingdom in
the interior to be strengthened.

That is him with his explanations Ernst was peaceful, he had the
meeting with Murena sufficiently proved, he went on to do everything
possible to avoid what had to lead the Roman government from their
passivity herauszudraengen.

Young as the first Mithradatische war is entsponnen had, without
any of the parties that it actually wished it now also developed
from the opposing interests in mutual suspicion, from this mutual
defense establishments, and it finally led us through their own
emphasis to the open fracture.

It has long been the dominant Roman politics distrust in their own
wit and combat readiness, which is the lack of standing armies and a few
exemplary collegial regiment well explained, made it almost to an axiom
of Roman politics, every war is not just up to the overwhelming,
but to destroy the opponent's lead, we had so far with the peace
of Sullas house in Rome from as little as once satisfied with the
conditions set out by Scipio Africanus the Carthaginians had granted.

The often expressed concern that a second attack of the Pontic King
bevorstehe, was reasonably justified by the very similarity of
contemporary relationships with those twelve years ago.

Recovery took a dangerous civil war, together with serious armor
Mithradats; again flooded the Thracians Makedonien the Korsarenflotten
and covered the entire Mediterranean Sea, came back and went the
emissaries, like between Mithradates and Italy, as now between the
Roman emigrants in Spain and those on the court of Sinope.

Already in the beginning of the year 677 (77) in the Senate it was
pronounced that the king just waiting for the opportunity, during
the civil war Italic Roman Asia over the attack, the Roman armies
in Asia and Cilicia were reinforced in order to deal with possible
incidents. other hand, has also Mithradates with increasing concern
the evolution of Roman politics.

He had to feel that a war against the Romans Tigran how much the
poor are spared the Senate before, but the length was difficult to
avoid, and he can not help but be in the same process.

The attempt, which still lack a tool for peace written by the Roman
Senate to obtain, was in the turmoil of the revolution Lepidianischen
fell and remained without success; Mithradates took it as a sign of the
impending renewal of the struggle. The introduction seemed to the
expedition against the pirates, but indirectly also the kings of
the East met, whose allies they were.

Even more alarming were the pending claims of Rome to Egypt and Kypros, it
is significant that the Pontic Kingdom Ptolemaeern the two, which the
Senate continued to refuse recognition to his two daughters and Nyssa
Mithradatis engaged. The emigrants pushed to hit; Sertorius' position in
Spain, to explore suitable pretexts under Mithradates messengers
into the headquarters Pompeianische seconds, and in fact just at
this time was impressive, the king opened the prospect, not like
in the first war against the Roman two parties, but with the one
against the other to fight. a more favorable moment could hardly
be hoped, and in the end it was always better to use the war to
explain than it is to be explained.

Since died in 679 (75) Koenig Nikomedes III. Philopator of Bithynien and
left as the last of his tribe - because one of the Nysa-born son was called
or fake - his kingdom of the Romans in the Testament, which the
Roman province with the border and length of Roman officials and
businessmen met in the countryside to take possession not lined.

At the same time was also Cyrene, which already since the year 658 (96)
attacked the Romans was finally established as a province and a
Roman governor sent there (679 75).

These measures in conjunction with the same time on the south coast of
Asia Minor against the pirate attacks have exported in the kings have
aroused concerns, including the confiscation Bithyniens to Roemer, the
immediate neighbors of the Pontic kingdom, and this probably was
the key.

The king did take the decisive step and declared in winter 679/80 (75/74)
to the Roman war.

Mithradates would have the hard work alone is not accepted. His next
and federal natural Genosse was the great king Tigran; only the short-sighted
man refused the request from his father.

Thus, only the Insurgente and the pirates. Mithradates did it matter, with
two strong, to Spain and sent to Crete Squadron is in contact. With
Sertorius promised a formal contract by which the Rome Bithynien
Koenig, Paphlagonien, Galanes and Cappadocia abtrat - admittedly
louder acquisitions, the first on the battlefield had to be ratified.

More important was the support which the Spanish captain to the
king by sending Roman officer to keep his armies and fleets granted.

The activities under the emigrants in the east, Magius Lucius and
Lucius Fannius, by Sertorius to his representatives at the court
of Sinope ordered.

Even the pirates came from the help they provided in large numbers in the
Pontic kingdom itself, and especially through them, there seems to be the
kings managed to be a by the numbers as determined by the ability
of ships to build impressive naval power.

The Hauptstuetze remained the armed forces with whom the king,
before the Romans in Asia would arrive, their possessions daselbst
can hope to conquer, especially since in the province of Asia by
the war tax Sullanische caused financial hardship in Bithymen
reluctance against the New Roman regiment in Cilicia and Pamphylia
recently by the devastating war backwardness discharges fuel Pontic
invasion of a favorable prospect.

At stores, there is not, in the royal were saving two million Medimnen
cereals.

Fleet and crew were numerous and wohlgeuebt, including an exquisite
bastarnischen Soldknechte even grown Scharnstein Italic legionaries.

Once again it was the king of the offensive began. A corps under Diophantos
flick in Cappadocia, to the fortresses daselbst to fill and the
Romans the way into the Pontic kingdom to relocate; Sertorius sent
by the Fuehrer, the Propraetor Marcus Marius, was in communion with
the Pontic officer Eumachos after Phrygia, in order the Roman
province and the Taurus Mountains to insurgieren; the main army,
over 100,000 men plus 16,000 riders and 100 sickle carriage, guided
by Taxiles and personal Hermokrates under the ultimate direction
of King, and commanded by Aristonikos fleet of 400 sailing moved
to north along Asia Minor, Paphlagonien and Bithymen to be filled.

Roemischerseits promised to keep the war in the first row of the consul
of the year 680 (74), Lucius Lucullus, destined as the governor of Cilicia
and Asia at the forefront of Asia Minor in the four legions and a
fifth of brought him from Italy and was instructed to use this to
30,000 men on foot and 1600 horsemen army amounting to Phrygia by
the Pontic kingdom follicle.

His colleague Marcus Cotta went with the fleet and another Roman corps
after Propontis to Asia and Bithynien needs.

Finally, a general reinforcement of the coasts, especially by the Pontic
fleet threatened First Thracian, and ordered the cleansing of all
the seas and coasts from the pirates and their comrades Pontic
ausserordentlicherweise officials about a single bear, for which
the election to the praetor Marcus Antonius fell the son of the man
who thirty years earlier, first the Cilician pirates had castigated.

In addition, the Senate of the Lucullus a sum of 72 million Sestertius
(5 «mn dollars) available to them to build a fleet, which Lucullus,
however, refused.

In all, one sees that the Roman government in the neglect of the
marine at the core of the problem identified herein and at least
as far as Ernst did when their decrees submitted.

Thus began the year 680 (74) war on all points. It was a misfortune for
Mithradates that just at the moment of its declaration of war turning point
in the wars Sertorianischen occurred, resulting from the outset
of his main aspirations was based on him and the Roman government
was possible, all her power on the sea and the Asia Minor war use.

In Asia Minor, on the other hand Mithradat reaped the benefits of the
offense and the wide distance between the Romans of the immediate
war zone.

The Sertorianischen Propraetor, in the Roman province of Asia was preceded,
opened with a rather small number of Asian cities, the gates and
slaughtered as the year 666 (88) when they established Roman
families settled the Pisider, Isaurer, Kilik taken arms against Rome.

The Romans had threatened to the point currently no troops. Some men tried
most efficient in their own hands this incitement of Provincial
control - so left on the customer of these events, the young Gaius
Caesar Rhodes, where his studies because he was staying, and threw
himself with a rapidly zusammengerafften Scharnstein Insurgente the
contrary; alone such a lot could not align Free Corps.

If not the brave Vierfuerst to Pessinus resident of the tribe of the Celts
Tolistoboger, Deiotarus, the Party of Roemer and happy taken against
the Pontic ment under Mr Field would have there would have to begin
by Lucullus, the landlocked province of the Roman wiederabzunehmen
the enemy.

Even so, he lost but with the calm of the landscape and with the repulsion
of the enemy a precious time of the small successes, which his
cavalry erfocht is nothing less than was paid.

Even less favorable than in Phrygia designed the things for the
Romans at the North coast of Asia Minor.

Here was the great army and the fleet of Pontiker is Bithyniens completely
bemeistert and the Roman consul Cotta forced, with many of his
little crew and its vessels in the walls and the port of Kalchedon
to seek protection where they blocked gave Mithradates.

However, this inclusion, there is a favorable event for the Romans, as
if the Pontic cotta army Kalchedon maintained and Lucullus ebendahin
is turned, all the Roman forces in Kalchedon unite and already here
rather than in the more distant and inaccessible Pontic country,
the weapons could force the decision.

Lucullus also suggested the road to Kalchedon On; alone Cotta order before
the arrival of colleagues at their own hand execute an heroic, let his
Flottenfuehrer Publius Rutilius Nudus a failure to make, not just with
a bloody defeat of the Romans ends, but also the Pontikern makes it
possible to attack the port, the chain that blocked the same, to
blow up and all daselbst are Roman warships, against the number of
seventy, to burn.

On the news of these accidents, which Lucullus on the river Sangarios
received the same accelerated its march to the great discontent of his
soldiers, which in their opinion nothing swattish Cotta and far prefer
a country plundered undefended as their comrades had said siegen taught.
His arrival made the accident suffered partly good: the king lifted
the siege of Kalchedon on, did not return after Pontos, but southward
into the Roman province, where he was at the Hellespont Propontis
and spread, Lampsakos occupied and the large and rich city Kyzikos
began to besiege.

"How simple it would be if there were no parties to
them but the lovers! But nature is always insisting upon fathers and
mothers, and families on both sides."


XIX.

The long train which they took at last was for the Norumbia's people
alone, and it was of several transitional and tentative types of cars.
Some were still the old coach-body carriages; but most were of a strange
corridor arrangement, with the aide at the aide, and the seats crossing
from it, with compartments sometimes rising to the roof, and sometimes
rising half-way. No two cars seemed quite alike, but all were very
comfortable; and when the train began to run out through the little
sea-side town into the country, the old delight of foreign travel began.
Most of the houses were little and low and gray, with ivy or flowering
vines covering their walls to their browntiled roofs; there was here and
there a touch of Northern Gothic in the architecture; but usually where
it was pretentious it was in the mansard taste, which was so bad with us
a generation ago, and is still very bad in Cuxhaven.

The fields, flat and wide, were dotted with familiar shapes of Holstein
cattle, herded by little girls, with their hair in yellow pigtails. The
gray, stormy sky hung low, and broke in fitful rains; but perhaps for the
inclement season of mid-summer it was not very cold. Flowers were
blooming along the embankments and in the rank green fields with a dogged
energy; in the various distances were groups of trees embowering cottages
and even villages, and always along the ditches and watercourses were
double lines of low willows. At the first stop the train made, the
passengers flocked to the refreshment-booth, prettily arranged beside the
station, where the abundance of the cherries and strawberries gave proof
that vegetation was in other respects superior to the elements. But it
was not of the profusion of the sausages, and the ham which openly in
slices or covertly in sandwiches claimed its primacy in the German
affections; every form of this was flanked by tall glasses of beer.

A number of the natives stood by and stared unsmiling at the train, which
had broken out in a rash of little American flags at every window. This
boyish display, which must have made the Americans themselves laugh, if
their sense of humor had not been lost in their impassioned patriotism,
was the last expression of unity among the Norumbia's passengers, and
they met no more in their sea-solidarity. Of their table acquaintance the
Marches saw no one except Burnamy, who came through the train looking for
them. He said he was in one of the rear cars with the Eltwins, and was
going to Carlsbad with them in the sleeping-car train leaving Hamburg at
seven. He owned to having seen the Triscoes since they had left Cuxhaven;
Mrs. March would not suffer herself to ask him whether they were in the
same carriage with the Eltwins. He had got a letter from Mr. Stoller at
Cuxhaven, and he begged the Marches to let him engage rooms for them at
the hotel where he was going to stay with him.

After they reached Hamburg they had flying glimpses of him and of others
in the odious rivalry to get their baggage examined first which seized
upon all, and in which they no longer knew one another, but selfishly
struggled for the good-will of porters and inspectors. There was really
no such haste; but none could govern themselves against the general
frenzy. With the porter he secured March conspired and perspired to win
the attention of a cold but not unkindly inspector. The officer opened
one trunk, and after a glance at it marked all as passed, and then there
ensued a heroic strife with the porter as to the pieces which were to go
to the Berlin station for their journey next day, and the pieces which
were to go to the hotel overnight. At last the division was made; the
Marches got into a cab of the first class; and the porter, crimson and
steaming at every pore from the physical and intellectual strain, went
back into the station.

They had got the number of their cab from the policeman who stands at the
door of all large German stations and supplies the traveller with a
metallic check for the sort of vehicle he demands. They were not proud,
but it seemed best not to risk a second-class cab in a strange city, and
when their first-class cab came creaking and limping out of the rank,
they saw how wise they had been, if one of the second class could have
been worse.

As they rattled away from the station they saw yet another kind of
turnout, which they were destined to see more and more in the German
lands. It was that team of a woman harnessed with a dog to a cart which
the women of no other country can see without a sense of personal insult.
March tried to take the humorous view, and complained that they had not
been offered the choice of such an equipage by the policeman, but his
wife would not be amused. She said that no country which suffered such a
thing could be truly civilized, though he made her observe that no city
in the world, except Boston or Brooklyn, was probably so thoroughly
trolleyed as Hamburg. The hum of the electric car was everywhere, and
everywhere the shriek of the wires overhead; batlike flights of
connecting plates traversed all the perspectives through which they drove
to the pleasant little hotel they had chosen.


XX.

On one hand their windows looked toward a basin of the Elbe, where
stately white swans were sailing; and on the other to the new Rathhaus,
over the trees that deeply shaded the perennial mud of a cold, dim public
garden, where water-proof old women and impervious nurses sat, and
children played in the long twilight of the sour, rain-soaked summer of
the fatherland. It was all picturesque, and within-doors there was the
novelty of the meagre carpets and stalwart furniture of the Germans, and
their beds, which after so many ages of Anglo-Saxon satire remain
immutably preposterous. They are apparently imagined for the stature of
sleepers who have shortened as they broadened; their pillows are
triangularly shaped to bring the chin tight upon the breast under the
bloated feather bulk which is meant for covering, and which rises over
the sleeper from a thick substratum of cotton coverlet, neatly buttoned
into the upper sheet, with the effect of a portly waistcoat.

Instead of the Rhodian eclectic one began on the real attics, especially
on Lysias and Demosthenes back and looking for a powerful and masculine
eloquence in Rome einzubuergern. This direction belongs to the ceremony,
but stiff Iunius Marcus Brutus (669-712 85-42), the two political Parteigaenger
Marcus Caelius Rufus (672-706 82-48) and Gaius Scribonius Curio (+
705 49), both as speakers fully Spirit and Life, also known as a poet
calvus (672-706 82-48), the literary luminaries of the younger speakers
circuit, and the serious and conscientious Asinius Pollio Gaius
(678-757 76-4 AD).

Undeniably, in this recent speech literature more flavor and more spirit
than in the Hortense and Cicerone together; fortunes, however, we are
not to measure how far below the storms of revolution, the richly talented
this whole circle with the sole exception of Pollio wegrafften quickly,
the better bacteria yet arrived to the development. The time was too short
to measure. The new monarchy began to freedom of speech to make the war
and suppressed political speech very soon. Since was still the subordinate
class of pure Advokatenplaedoyers in the literature states, but the higher
elocution and speech literature, which certainly rests on the political
activity, was associated with this course is necessary and forever
buried. Finally develops in the aesthetic literature of this period the
artistic treatment specialist scientific materials in the form of
stylized dialogue, as when the Greeks very widespread and sometimes
even earlier when the Romans had occurred. Notably, Cicero tried in many
parts of the rhetorical and philosophical presentation material in this
form and in the merger of the textbook with the reader.

Its main scriptures are the 'From the speakers' (written 699 55),
including the history of Roman eloquence (the dialogue' Brutus ',
written 708 46) and other small rhetorical essays are complementary, and
the font' The State '(written 700 54), making the font' from the laws'
(written 702? 52) after Platonic model in conjunction set. There
are no great works of art, but certainly those works, in which the merits
of the author's most and least its shortcomings emerge. The rhetorical
writings are far from reaching the lehrhafte conceptual rigor and
sharpness of the Herennius devoted to rhetoric, but dafuer contain a
treasure of practical experience and Sachwalterschaft Sachwalterschaft
anecdotes of all kinds in mild and tasteful representation and in
fact solve the problem of an enjoyable Lehrschrift.

The correspondence from the state leads to a quaint, historical and
philosophical hybrid entity by the idea that the existing constitution of
Rome, much of the popular philosophers of government is ideal, an admittedly
just as unhistorical as unphilosophical, nor even the author peculiar
idea, which but understandably became and remained popular. The scientific
work of this basic political and rhetorical writings of Cicero
belongs quite naturally to the Greeks and also many individual, for
example, the large effect in the final document by the state, the
dream of Scipio, is almost abgeborgt them, but come the same extent
relative to originality, as editing by Roman local color, and the
state Selbstgefuehl when the Romans against the Greeks, however,
was entitled, even the author with a certain autonomy his Greek
teacher had addressed.

Also, the Gespraechsform Cicero is not the real issue dialectics of the
best Greek art dialogues nor the real or Konversationston Diderot Lessing,
but the big groups to Crassus and Antonius versammelnden are advocates
and the older and younger statesmanlike Scipione of the circle give it a
lively and important part suitable provisions allow for relationships
and historical anecdotes and skillful resting points for the scientific
discussion. The style is well worked through and finishing as the
best-written speeches and far more enjoyable than this, as the author
does not often make an unsuccessful start to pathos takes. If these
philosophically tinged rhetoric and political writings of Cicero are not
without merit, it was opposed by the Compilers completely, as it appears
in the involuntary Musser his last years of life (709, 710 45, 44) to
the actual philosophy and made with as large moroseness Eilfertigkeit
like in a few months ago a philosophical library wrote.

The recipe was very simple. In imitation of the popular raw Aristotelian
writings, in which the dialogical form mainly to the development and
critique of the various older systems used was sewed Cicero have the same
problem addressed epikureischen, stoic and syncretic writings, as he
came into the hand or have been to a so called dialogue to one another,
without more to do than any part of the rich collection of prefaces for
future works, which he was subject to the new advanced introductory
book, partly a certain popularization by Roman examples
and relations einflocht also likely to be improper, but the
writer as the reader more common objects, in ethics, for example, on
the oratorical decency, abschweifte, partly that Verhunzung, without
which a no to the philosophical thinking, or even to the philosophical
knowledge came, fast and brash working series of letters dialectical
thought is not reproduced. In this way were indeed very fast because
a lot of thick books - "there are copies," wrote the author of even a
fertility surprised about his friends, "they do not bother me, because
I was only the words and I have Over the River ". On the other hand,
because nothing else to say, but who in such classic productions Schreibereien
examined, the one can only guess in literary things, a beautiful
silence to befleissigen.

Among the sciences of life was only one: it was the Latin philology. The
Stilo-based building material and linguistic research within the
Latin folk area was mainly by his students Varro in the grandest way
expanded. It appeared through comprehensive treasure of the whole
language, including Figulus' grammatical weitschichtige comment and
Varros great works "from the Latin language ' ; grammatical historical
monographs and said how Varros scriptures from the Latin language,
on the synonyms, over the age of the letters, about the emergence of
the Latin language; Scholi to the older literature, particularly to Plautus;
literargeschichtliche work, poet biographies, studies about the
older Schaubuehne , about the division of the scenic Plautinischen
and comedies about the authenticity of the same.

The Latin Real philology, which the whole ancient history and the
jurisprudence of the practical failure of Sakralrecht moved in their
circle, were summarized in Varros fundamental and all times remained
fundamentally 'antiquities of the human and the divine things' (known
from 687 to 709 67 and 45). The first half 'of the human things' described
the primeval Rome, the city and land division, the science of the years,
months and days, finally the public acts at home and in wars, in the
second half' of the divine things' was government theology, the nature and
importance of Sachverstaendigenkollegien, the sacred sites, religious
festivals, the victims and Weihgeschenke finally the gods themselves
clearly developed.

This came out a number of books - for example, about the origin of
the Roman people, from about the Troy-based Roman sexes, over the
districts - to be a major and independent Addendum font 'From the
Life of the Roman people', a strange attempt at a Roman moral story,
a picture of the domestic financial and cultural status in the King,
the first Republican, to the Hannibal and recently drafted.

This work Varros rest on such a versatile and in their nature so great
empirical knowledge of the Roman world and its Hellenistic border
area, as they never, neither before nor after another Roemer, and
obsessed with the opinion of the living things and the study of literature
have contributed equally, the praise was well deserved contemporaries
that Varro in his own world outside of their fellow countrymen in the
homeland-oriented and the Romans had learned to know who and where they
were. Criticism, however, and the system will search in vain. The
Greek customer seems quite murky sources flowed and there are traces of
that in the Roman writer of the influence of the historical novel
of his time was not released. The fabric is comfortable in a comfortable
and symmetrical truss for classification, but neither structured nor
methodically dealt with all the desire and, overnight delivery and their
own observation harmoniously to process, but are not Varros
scientific work by a certain Koehlerglauben against the tradition
of still impractical scholasticism releasing ^ 19.

The reference to the Greek philology is in imitation of more deficiencies
than the same qualities, such as primarily the mere appeal to Etymologisieren
out both Varro himself as with the other language scholars, this time
in the mere charade and often quite silly runs into ^ 20.

In its safety and abundant empirical as well as in their empirical
inadequacy and Unmethode Varrone vividly reminded of the English
National Philology and also ebenwie that their focus in the study of older
Schaubuehne. The fact that the monarchic literature, in contrast to
these linguistic empiricism generally the language developed, was
noted. It is highly significant that at the forefront of modern grammarians
man is none other than Caesar himself, who in his writings on the analogy
(known from 696 to 704 68 and 50) it made the first free language under
the violence of the law to compel. -----------------------------------------------
--------- ^ 19 A strange example is in the writing of the general
agriculture debate over the cattle (2, 1), with nine times nine
sub-departments of animal husbandry teaching, with the "incredible"
but "real" fact that the mares at Olisipo (Lisbon) are fertilized
by the wind to come up with their strange amalgam of philosophical,
historical and agricultural items. ^ 20 Sun launches Varro facere
facies of her, because who does something that is a good thing,
volpe, the fox, after Stilo of Volare pedibus than fly foot; Gaius
Trebatius, a philosophical jurist of the time, from Sacra sacellum
cella; Figulus frater fere of age and so on.

This drift, which is not isolated, but as a main element of the philological
literature appears this time has the largest similarity with the way
it until recently drove Sprachvergleichung before the insight into the
body language here the empirical craft presented. ----
-------------------------------------------------- - In addition to this
unusually lively in the field of philology, the low activity in the other
sciences. What is of concern in the philosophy seemed like Lucretius'
presentation of epikureischen system in the poetic of the Pre-clothed
children philosophy and the writings of Cicero better, tat and its effect
was not by his audience, but in spite of the philosophical content only
through the aesthetic form of the numerous Uebersetzungen epikureischer
Pythagorean writings and works, as Varros great work over the
elements of numbers and the more detailed the Figulus by the gods,
had no doubt neither scientific nor formal value.

Even in the specialized sciences, it is weakly ordered. Varros dialogically
written books on farming, are methodical than that of its
predecessor and Cato Saserna to because of some tadelnde Seitenblick
falls, but in the whole more from the scriptorium as a result, such as
those older works, from the living experience. From the same and Servius
Sulpicius Rufus (consul 703 51) legal work is hardly anything more to
say than that they are on the dialectical and philological surface of
the Roman jurisprudence have contributed. Next is here but nothing to
mention a further example of Gaius Matius three books on cooking,
salting and Einmachen, to our knowledge, the oldest Roman cookbook and
make the work of a man, however, a remarkable phenomenon. The
fact that mathematics and physics through the Hellenistic and utilitarischen
increased tendencies of the monarchy have been promoted, probably reflected
in the increasing importance of teaching the youth and in some practical
applications, where, except for the reform of the calendar, some
can still be counted the advent of wall maps in this time, the
improved technology of shipbuilding and musical instruments, equipment
and buildings as specified by Varro bird house, the engineers of
Caesar Pfahlbruecke executed on the Rhine, even two semicircular,
pushing together to set up, initially as two separate theaters,
then together as amphitheater used Brettergerueste.

Foreign Naturmerkwuerdigkeiten at carnivals for public review to make was
not unusual, and the descriptions of strange animals that Caesar in his
campaign has filed reports prove that an Aristotle if it occurred would
be his turn Fuersten would have found. But what of literary achievements
in this area is mentioned, much depends on the Neupythagoreismus to so
Figulus compilation of Greek and barbarian, ie Egyptian sky observations
and writings of the same animals, the winds, the sexual parts. After
all over the Greek nature of the research Aristotelian quest in each Act
to find, more and more to the empirical and mostly uncritical observation
of the external and conspicuous in nature astray could science by acting
as a mystical philosophy of nature has occurred, rather than
enlighten and stimulate even more stupefying and paralyzed, and such goings
gegenueber did it even better with the platitude move which Cicero as
Socratic wisdom maintains that the nature of research, either looking
for things that nobody would know, or those that no one need to know.
Let's finally have a look at the art show as well here is the same
unpleasant symptoms, the whole intellectual life of this period met.
The State Construction faltered in the money clip of the last
period of the Republic as well as the whole. From the Bauluxus of Rome
was already making the speech, the architects learned consequently
wasting the marble - the colored varieties, such as the numidische Yellow
(Giallo antico) and others came in this time in recording and also
the lunensischen (Carrar) Marmorbrueche have been first used - and
began to use the floors of rooms with mosaic interpreted the walls
with marble plates to panel or the marble-like stucco to paint -
the first beginnings of the later room wall painting.

She said she could not see how any people could be both so
selfish and so sweet, and her husband seized the advantage of saying
something offensive:

"You women are so pampered in America that you are astonished when you
are treated in Europe like the mere human beings you are."

She answered with unexpected reasonableness:

"Yes, there's something in that; but when the Germans have taught us how
despicable we are as women, why do they treat us so well as human
beings?"

This was at ten o'clock, after she had ridden backward a long way, and at
last, within an hour of Leipsic, had got a seat confronting him. The
darkness had now hidden the landscape, but the impression of its few
simple elements lingered pleasantly in their sense: long levels, densely
wooded with the precise, severely disciplined German forests, and
checkered with fields of grain and grass, soaking under the thin rain
that from time to time varied the thin sunshine.

The villages and peasants' cottages were notably few; but there was here
and there a classic or a gothic villa, which, at one point, an
English-speaking young lady turned from her Tauchnitz novel to explain as
the seat of some country gentleman; the land was in large holdings, and
this accounted for the sparsity of villages and cottages.

She then said that she was a German teacher of English, in Hamburg, and
was going home to Potsdam for a visit. She seemed like a German girl out
of 'The Initials', and in return for this favor Mrs. March tried to
invest herself with some romantic interest as an American. She failed to
move the girl's fancy, even after she had bestowed on her an immense
bunch of roses which the young German friend in Hamburg had sent to them
just before they left their hotel. She failed, later, on the same ground
with the pleasant-looking English woman who got into their carriage at
Magdeburg, and talked over the 'London Illustrated News' with an
English-speaking Fraulein in her company; she readily accepted the fact
of Mrs. March's nationality, but found nothing wonderful in it,
apparently; and when she left the train she left Mrs. In the autumn of
the year 691 (63) met Quintus Metellus Nepos from the camp of Pompey
in the capital, and occurs as a candidate for a Tribunate, the outspoken
intention, as Pompey Volkstribun the consulate for the year 693 (61) and
initially by specific decision, the People's guide to the war
against Catiline sources.

The excitement in Rome was enormous. It was impossible to doubt that
Nepos in direct or indirect assignment of Pompey acted; Pompey 'desire,
in Italy at the head of his legions as the Asian voice and captain
daselbst the highest military and the highest civil authority at the same
time to administer, was understood as a further step on the way
to the throne, Nepos' mission as the semi-announcement of the
monarchy.

There was everything depends on how the two major political parties
to open up this behavior and its future position and the future of
the nation hung from.

The recording, however, Nepos which took place, was itself determined
by the relationship of the parties then to Pompey, which was very
peculiar kind.

As captain of the democracy was Pompey went to the East. He had reason
enough, with Caesar and its annex to be dissatisfied, but an open
fracture was not done.

It is likely that Pompey, far away and with other things was also the
gift of political orientation, certainly lacked the scope and context of
the democratic spun against him machinations were not at least see
through, perhaps even in his haughty and short-sighted way, a certain
pride burned put these Maulwurfstaetigkeit to ignore.

This was what the character of Pompey 'Art was very important that democracy
is the outer respect against the big man never set eyes, so just
now (691 63), without being asked what he loved him by a special
People's outrageous final honors and decorations had granted.

However, this would also not have everything, so it was in Pompeius' own
best interests, at least outwardly Popular Party to continue to keep
democracy and monarchy are so close kinship election that Pompey, he
grabbed for the crown, could hardly be otherwise, as so far as
the rights of the People's Vorfechter call.

So how personal and political reasons, matters to Pompey occurred
which, despite everything, and the leader of democracy in its connection
to note so far, it happened on the opposite side with nothing to bridge
the gap filled in him since his transfer step in the camp of democracy
from its sullanischen party comrades separated. His personal Zerwuerfnis
with Metellus and Lucullus were transferred on their extensive and influential
Koterien. A petty, but for such a petty nature tailored precisely
because of their pettiness so deep erbitternde opposition of the Senate
asked him to captain his whole career support. He felt it painfully,
that the Senate is not the slightest effort to earnings after extraordinary
man, that means to honor extraordinary. Finally, it is not out of the eight
to leave, that the aristocracy was just fresh from her victory
intoxicated, democracy was deeply humiliated, and that the aristocracy of
the bocksteifen clownish Cato and a half, the democracy of the flexible
master of intrigue who became Caesar . In these relationships met
the emergence of the emissary sent by Pompey. The aristocracy considered
not just the applications, the same to Pompey 'favor announcing, as a
declaration of war against the existing constitution, but also
addressed public and as such was not the least trouble, and their
concern to conceal their inner fury in the pronounced intention
that these requests to combat settled with Marcus Cato Nepos also
choose to Volkstribun and drew Pompey 'repeated attempts to be
closer to him personally, gruff back.

It is understandable that Nepos hereafter will not be prompted
thought to protect the aristocracy, while the Democrats are so
willing views as these, smooth as always, in the inevitable is added
and the Feldherrnamt in Italy as the consulate rather voluntarily
admitted as it with the weapons could be abzwingen.

The cordial agreement revealed soon. Nepos is known (December 691 63) to
the democratic public opinion of the Senatsmajoritaet recently had executions
as unconstitutional judicial killings, and that his lord and
master that was not otherwise demonstrated his significant silence on
the voluminous written justification, which he had sent Cicero.
However, it was the first act, which Caesar opened his Praetur that he
Quintus Catulus because of the rebuilding of the Capitoline temple of
him allegedly embezzled money went to account and the completion of the
temple over to Pompey. It was a Meisterzug. Catulus built at the temple
already in the sixteenth year, and seemed to have good pleasure, as
senior warden of the Capitoline buildings so as to live to die, an
attack on them, only by the prestige of the officers covered
make abuse of a public contract was substantively totally unfounded and
highly popular. But, while thus Pompeius promised the prospect has
been opened, at this point most proud of the first city of the
earth the name of eradicating Catulus and entrench his may be, it was
ebendas offered what especially appealed to him and democracy is not
harmed, exuberant, but empty honor, and was also the aristocracy, but
its the best man was impossible drop at the most annoying way implicated
with Pompey. Meanwhile Pompey had Nepos its relevant applications to
the residents introduced. On the day of the vote interzedierten Cato and
his friend and colleague Quintus Minucius. When Nepos is not returned
it and continued with the presentation, there was a formal scuffle:
Cato and Minucius threw over to their colleagues and forced him to
stop, an armed crowd freed him while the aristocratic and distribution
group from the market, but Cato and Minucius came again, and now
also accompanied by armed pile, and finally claimed the battleground
for the government.

  With this victory over their ties
   to the defendant encouraged, the Senate suspended the tribune and
praetor Nepos Caesar, the same with the introduction of the Act was
strongly supported by their offices, the dismissal, which was
requested in the Senate, was more probably because of their
constitutional than because of their DIVERSIONS from Cato prevented.

He reversed the decision and went not in his official acts continued
until the violence against him the Senate needed. And this became known,
appeared in the crowd in front of his home and turned him available, it
would have only abgehangen by him, the street fight to start or at least
the applications lodged by Metellus and Pompey now resume the desired
Militaerkommando by him in Italy for themselves; This was not alone in
its interest, and so he moved the pile to return to dispel what the
Senate against him, the withdrawal penalty. Nepos himself had his suspension
immediately after leaving the city and embarked to Asia to Pompey by the
success of his mission report. Pompey had any cause, with the twist of
things to be satisfied. The way to the throne was now required by
Buergermeister the war, and those with a reasonably good start may
be incorrigible, he thanked Cato wrong. After the condemnation of the
illegal Pendant Catilinas, after the unprecedented violence against the
Volkstribun Pompeius Metellus could lead him as a supporter of both the
Roman municipality Palladien freedom, the right of judicial appeal and
the inviolability of Volkstribunats, against the aristocracy, and as
the champion of order against the party Catilinarische gang . It seemed
almost impossible that Pompey do this and with seeing eye is the
second time in the embarrassing situation will go into the dismissal of
his army in 684 (70) and moved him from the law until the Gabin had redeemed
him. However, how close he was also laid, the white bandage around his
forehead to how much his own soul lust after: it was the handle
to do it again failed heart and hand.

This in all, only in his claims, quite ordinary people would have probably
liked outside of the law itself, when it would have just done, without
the legal ground to leave. His hesitation in Asia had guessed it.
He could if he wanted, very well in January 692 (62) with a fleet and
army in the harbor of Nepos and Brundisium arrive here too. That he all
winter 691/92 (63/62) line in Asia, began with the adverse consequences
that the aristocracy, which, of course, the campaign against Catiline
strongly accelerated, but now with the gangs was fertiggeworden and thus
becoming the pretext that Asian legions in Italy together, hinwegfiel.
For a man of Pompey 'kind, in the absence of faith in himself and his
star is in the public life anxious to formal legal anklammerte, and
where the pretext weighed about as much as the reason, this fact was
difficult to influence. He also liked to say that, even when he
dismissed his army, he is not the same completely out of hand in an
emergency and there is still more than any other party to head a quick-witted
army raise property; that democracy in the servile attitude of his
pursuit, and with winks the unruly Senate without soldiers had to be
done and what continues from such considerations darbot, which was just
enough truth to make them the one who wanted to deceive themselves,
appear to be plausible. The attack was of course in turn Pompey's own
nature. He belonged to the people who are probably capable of a crime,
but none Insurbordination; in good as in the bad sense, he was a
soldier through and through.

Significant individualities respect the law as a moral necessity, as a
general rule, the traditional everyday; Exactly captivates the military
order, in which more than anywhere else as customary law occurs,
each in itself not quite as solid people with a magic spell. It has
often been observed that the soldier, even if the decision has to
obey his superiors to fail, but if that obedience is required, involuntarily
returned to series and class appears, it was this feeling, the Lafayette
and Dumouriez at the last minute before the break loyalty fluctuate
and made fail, and exactly the same is also Pompey inferior.

In the autumn of 692 (62) embarked Pompey to Italy itself. While in
the capital, everything is prepared, the new monarch to receive the
report came that Pompeius, Brundisium barely landed, and his legions of
low dissolved entourage to travel to the capital had begun. If there
is a fortune, a crown to win easily, so has the luck never done for a
mortal, as it did for Pompey, but to the frail wasting all the gods
favor and gift all in vain. The parties breathed on. For the second
time Pompey had abdicated; already overcome competitors could start
the race again, but the wound was probably in that Pompey back the data.
In January, 693 (61), he came to Rome. His position was wrong, and so
unclear fluctuated between the parties that he was mocking the name
Gnaeus Cicero awarded. He had it all just spoiled. The anarchists saw in
him a foe, the Democrats uncomfortable one friend, Marcus Crassus
a rival, the wealthy class an unreliable protector, the aristocracy
THAT enemy ^ 1 He was probably still the most powerful man in the
state, its scattered all over Italy by military annex, its influence
in the provinces, including eastern its military reputation, his
immense wealth gave him a weight it like no one else had, but instead
of the enthusiastic reception, which he counted on was the inclusion,
which he found more than cool, still cool and dealt with the demands,
he noted.

He sought for himself, as he already had by Nepos to announce the second
consulate, in addition of course to confirmation before. he made
arrangements in the East and the fulfillment of the promise given its
soldiers to provide them with lands device. Rose up against in
the Senate a systematic opposition to the personal bitterness of
Lucullus and Metellus Creticus, the old resentment of Crassus and
Cato conscientious stupidity the main elements hergaben. The desired
second consulate immediately and was bluntly refused. Though the first
request, the captain returning to the Senate directed the election of
consuls for 693 (61) until after his arrival in the capital affords him
was amputated been much less had to remember the necessary Dispensation
of the Law Sullas about the reelection of the Senate to obtain. For in
the eastern provinces of orders it has taken the coveted Pompey confirmed
in the whole course; Lucullus sat through that on any particular disposal
was negotiated and voted on, which for endless Trakasserien and a lot
of defeats in each of the box was opened. The promise of a land donation
to the soldiers of the Asian army was probably from the Senate
ratified in general, but also extended to the legions of Metellus
Cretan and what was worse, it was not executed because the community fund
is empty and the Senate was not meant to domain for this purpose to
attack. Pompey, to despairing, the tough and treacherous opposition of
the Council Lord to be turned to the residents. Only in this field, he
understood even less to move. The democratic leader, although he is unable
to open entgegentraten, but had absolutely no reason, his interests
to theirs to make and were set aside.

Pompeius' own tools, such as his, and some influence in part through his
money Pupius chosen consuls Marcus Piso 693 (61) and Lucius Afranius
694 (60), proved to be clumsy and unusable. When finally the Volkstribun
Lucius Flavius in the form of a general law of arable land for Pompey
statement 'old soldiers to the residents put: was kept by the Democrats
was not supported by the aristocracy openly fought the request in the
minority (beginning 694 60).

Almost humbly buhlte now captain of the superscript to the favor of the
masses, such as on his drive through one of the praetor Metellus Nepos Act
brought the Italic duties abolished conquered (694 60). But he played the
demagogue with no luck and no skill, his reputation suffered, and what he
wanted, he was not. He had completely tightened.

One of his opponents based his political position at that time together so
that he would try, "his embroidered Triumphalmantel silence to preserve."
It remained to him, in fact, nothing left but to annoy.
------------------------------------ ^ 1 ----------- The impression
of the first speech to Pompey after his return to the residents
directed by Cicero (Art. 1, 14) as outlined primigravida contio
Pornpei non iucunda miseris, inanis improbis, beatis non grata,
bonis non gravis; ---------------------------------------- -------
Since there was a new combination dar. the leader of the democratic
party was the political calm, the first on the resignation of the
previous power Habers followed was in its interest activities.

When Pompey returned from Asia, Caesar was little more than what Catiline
was the leader of an almost Verschwoererklub eingeschwundenen to a political
party and a bankrupt man but since he had managed Praetur (692 62), the
governorship of the Hereafter, and Spain This means found, some of its
debt to discard; partly on his military reputation to determine the
reason. His old friend and comrade Federal by Crassus had hoped to. Backing
against Pompey, whom he lost to Piso, Caesar again now, is determined
to make it even before his departure into the province of the pressing
part of its debt burden to free. He himself had a short stay daselbst
vigorously used. In the year 694 (60) filled with cash and as Emperor
wohlgegruendeten with rights to the Triumph returned from Spain, he
joined for the following year as a candidate for the consulate at
about whom he, as the Senate him permission to be absent on the
Consul election to report abschlug, the honor of triumph safe
darangab.

For years after democracy had struggled, one of yours in the possession
of the highest office in order to bridge this to its own military
power to go. It was longer so the understanding of all the colors become
clear that the party does not dispute by civil war, but only by
Militaermacht can be decided, but of course the coalition between the
democracy and the powerful Militaerchefs by the Senate rule to an
end had been demonstrated with unrelenting Schaerf, that any such
alliance finally to a subordination of the civil by the military and
elements tantamount that the People's Party, if they really wanted
to dominate, not with it really strange, even hostile generals to
unite, but their leader themselves generals must make.

The goal then, the attempts to Catilinas enforce election as consul in
Egypt, or Spain a military backing to win, had failed and now
offered her the chance, her husband, the most important and the
Consulates Konsularprovinz on the habitual, constitutional ways to
provide substantiation and if one may say so, a democratic power
house from the dubious and dangerous allies Pompey independence.

But the more the democracy had to be committed to this path open to it
not so much cheaper than the single view of serious darbot successes,
the more certain they could build on the strong opposition of their
political opponents count. It was important, to whom they are held
against. The aristocracy was not isolated awful, but it had but just
in case Catilinarischen turned out that they still managed a bit,
where she worked with the men of material interests and the supporters
of Pompey more or less openly supported ward.

She had Catilinas application to the consulate repeatedly thwarted and
that they do the same against Caesar will try, was certainly enough.
But though perhaps Caesar Despite their chosen ward, then handed
the election alone is not enough.

He needed at least a few years of undisturbed effectiveness outside Italy,
is a solid military position to win, and certainly had the nobility
no means untried to during this preparation time to thwart his plans.

The idea was close, if it can not succeed, the aristocracy again,
as in 683/84 (71 / 70) to isolate between the Democrats and their allies,
together with a Crassus and Pompey and the other, a large financial advantage
to community establish expressed Buendnis up. For Pompey was,
however, such a political suicide.
They made haste to leave
the useful aspects of the fair, and had themselves trundled away to the
Colonial Exhibit, where they vaguely expected something like the
agreeable corruptions of the Midway Plaisance. The idea of her colonial
progress with which Germany is trying to affect the home-keeping
imagination of her people was illustrated by an encampment of savages
from her Central-African possessions. They were getting their supper at
the moment the Marches saw them, and were crouching, half naked, around
the fires under the kettles, and shivering from the cold, but they were
not very characteristic of the imperial expansion, unless perhaps when an
old man in a red blanket suddenly sprang up with a knife in his hand and
began to chase a boy round the camp. The boy was lighter-footed, and
easily outran the sage, who tripped at times on his blanket. None of the
other Central Africans seemed to care for the race, and without waiting
for the event, the American spectators ordered themselves trundled away
to another idle feature of the fair, where they hoped to amuse themselves
with the image of Old Leipsic.

This was so faithfully studied from the past in its narrow streets and
Gothic houses that it was almost as picturesque as the present epoch in
the old streets of Hamburg. A drama had just begun to be represented on a
platform of the public square in front of a fourteenth-century
beer-house, with people talking from the windows round, and revellers in
the costume of the period drinking beer and eating sausages at tables in
the open air. Their eating and drinking were genuine, and in the midst of
it a real rain began, to pour down upon them, without affecting them any
more than if they had been Germans of the nineteenth century. But it
drove the Americans to a shelter from which they could not see the play,
and when it held up, they made their way back to their hotel.

Their car was full of returning pleasurers, some of whom were happy
beyond the sober wont of the fatherland. The conductor took a special
interest in his tipsy passengers, trying to keep them in order, and
genially entreating them to be quiet when they were too obstreperous.
From time to time he got some of them off, and then, when he remounted
the car, he appealed to the remaining passengers for their sympathy with
an innocent smile, which the Americans, still strange to the unjoyous
physiognomy of the German Empire, failed to value at its rare worth.

Before he slept that night March tried to assemble from the experiences
and impressions of the day some facts which he would not be ashamed of as
a serious observer of life in Leipsic, and he remembered that their guide
had said house-rent was very low. He generalized from the guide's content
with his fee that the Germans were not very rapacious; and he became
quite irrelevantly aware that in Germany no man's clothes fitted him, or
seemed expected to fit him; that the women dressed somewhat better, and
were rather pretty sometimes, and that they had feet as large as the kind
hearts of the Germans of every age and sex. He was able to note, rather
more freshly, that with all their kindness the Germans were a very
nervous people, if not irritable, and at the least cause gave way to an
agitation, which indeed quickly passed, but was violent while it lasted.
Several times that day he had seen encounters between the portier and
guests at the hotel which promised violence, but which ended peacefully
as soon as some simple question of train-time was solved. The encounters
always left the portier purple and perspiring, as any agitation must with
a man so tight in his livery. He bemoaned himself after one of them as
the victim of an unhappy calling, in which he could take no exercise. "It
is a life of excitements, but not of movements," he explained to March;
and when he learned where he was going, he regretted that he could not go
to Carlsbad too. "For sugar?" he asked, as if there were overmuch of it
in his own make.

March felt the tribute, but he had to say, "No; liver."

"Ah!" said the portier, with the air of failing to get on common ground
with him.


XXV.

The next morning was so fine that it would have been a fine morning in
America. Its beauty was scarcely sullied, even subjectively, by the
telegram which the portier sent after the Marches from the hotel, saying
that their missing trunk had not yet been found, and their spirits were
as light as the gay little clouds which blew about in the sky, when their
train drew out in the sunshine, brilliant on the charming landscape all
the way to Carlsbad. A fatherly 'traeger' had done his best to get them
the worst places in a non-smoking compartment, but had succeeded so
poorly that they were very comfortable, with no companions but a mother
and daughter, who spoke German in soft low tones together. Their
compartment was pervaded by tobacco fumes from the smokers, but as these
were twice as many as the non-smokers, it was only fair, and after March
had got a window open it did not matter, really.

He asked leave of the strangers in his German, and they consented in
theirs; but he could not master the secret of the window-catch, and the
elder lady said in English, "Let me show you," and came to his help.

The occasion for explaining that they were Americans and accustomed to
different car windows was so tempting that Mrs. March could not forbear,
and the other ladies were affected as deeply as she could wish. Perhaps
they were the more affected because it presently appeared that they had
cousins in New York whom she knew of, and that they were acquainted with
an American family that had passed the winter in Berlin. Life likes to do
these things handsomely, and it easily turned out that this was a family
of intimate friendship with the Marches; the names, familiarly spoken,
abolished all strangeness between the travellers; and they entered into a
comparison of tastes, opinions, and experiences, from which it seemed
that the objects and interests of cultivated people in Berlin were quite
the same as those of cultivated people in New York. Each of the parties
to the discovery disclaimed any superiority for their respective
civilizations; they wished rather to ascribe a greater charm and virtue
to the alien conditions; and they acquired such merit with one another
that when the German ladies got out of the train at Franzensbad, the
mother offered Mrs. March an ingenious folding footstool which she had
admired. In fact, she left her with it clasped to her breast, and bowing
speechless toward the giver in a vain wish to express her gratitude.

"That was very pretty of her, my dear," said March. "You couldn't have
done that."

"No," she confessed; "I shouldn't have had the courage. The courage of my
emotions," she added, thoughtfully.

"Ah, that's the difference! A Berliner could do it, and a Bostonian
couldn't. Do you think it so much better to have the courage of your
convictions?"

"I don't know. It seems to me that I'm less and less certain of
everything that I used to be sure of."

He laughed, and then he said, "I was thinking how, on our wedding
journey, long ago, that Gray Sister at the Hotel Dieu in Quebec offered
you a rose."

"Well?"

"That was to your pretty youth. Now the gracious stranger gives you a
folding stool."

"To rest my poor old feet. Well, I would rather have it than a rose,
now."

"You bent toward her at just the slant you had when you took the flower
that time; I noticed it. I didn't see that you looked so very different.
To be sure the roses in your cheeks have turned into rosettes; but
rosettes are very nice, and they're much more permanent; I prefer them;
they will keep in any climate."

She suffered his mockery with an appreciative sigh. "Yes, our age
caricatures our youth, doesn't it?"

"I don't think it gets much fun out of it," he assented.

"No; but it can't help it. I used to rebel against it when it first
began. I did enjoy being young."

"You did, my dear," he said, taking her hand tenderly; she withdrew it,
because though she could bear his sympathy, her New England nature could
not bear its expression. "And so did I; and we were both young a long
time. Travelling brings the past back, don't you think? There at that
restaurant, where we stopped for dinner--"

"Yes, it was charming! Just as it used to be! With that white cloth, and
those tall shining bottles of wine, and the fruit in the centre, and the
dinner in courses, and that young waiter who spoke English, and was so
nice! I'm never going home; you may, if you like."

"You bragged to those ladies about our dining-cars; and you said that our
railroad restaurants were quite as good as the European."

"I had to do that. But I knew better; they don't begin to be."

"Perhaps not; but I've been thinking that travel is a good deal alike
everywhere. It's the expression of the common civilization of the world.
When I came out of that restaurant and ran the train down, and then found
that it didn't start for fifteen minutes, I wasn't sure whether I was at
home or abroad. And when we changed cars at Eger, and got into this train
which had been baking in the sun for us outside the station, I didn't
know but I was back in the good old Fitchburg depot. To be sure,
Wallenstein wasn't assassinated at Boston, but I forgot his murder at
Eger, and so that came to the same thing. It's these confounded fifty-odd
years. I used to recollect everything."

He had got up and was looking out of the window at the landscape, which
had not grown less amiable in growing rather more slovenly since they had
crossed the Saxon bolder into Bohemia. All the morning and early
afternoon they had run through lovely levels of harvest, where men were
cradling the wheat and women were binding it into sheaves in the narrow
fields between black spaces of forest. After they left Eger, there was
something more picturesque and less thrifty in the farming among the low
hills which they gradually mounted to uplands, where they tasted a
mountain quality in the thin pure air. The railroad stations were
shabbier; there was an indefinable touch of something Southern in the
scenery and the people. Lilies were rocking on the sluggish reaches of
the streams, and where the current quickened, tall wheels were lifting
water for the fields in circles of brimming and spilling pockets. Along
the embankments, where a new track was being laid, barefooted women were
at work with pick and spade and barrow, and little yellow-haired girls
were lugging large white-headed babies, and watching the train go by. At
an up grade where it slowed in the ascent he began to throw out to the
children the pfennigs which had been left over from the passage in
Germany, and he pleased himself with his bounty, till the question
whether the children could spend the money forced itself upon him. Marcus
Perpenna, which had as Sertorius at the rank equal to an independent
command on which he brought from Liguria team had made the right was on
the news of Pompey 'arrival in Spain of his soldiers obliged, under the
commands of their skills to colleagues provide. For the campaign of
the year 678 (76) related Sertorius Metellus again against the Corps,
the Hirtuleius while Perpenna with a strong army on the lower course of
the Ebro River is situated to the Pompey Uebergang about to defend the
river, when he, like expected, with the intention of the Metellus hand,
in a southerly direction and, catering for his troops to march along the
coast would. To Perpennas support was initially the Corps of Gaius Herennius
determined; further inland, at the upper Ebro, Sertorius himself
sought the subjugation of individual districts according to
Roman-minded and there was also prepared according to the circumstances
Perpenna or Hirtuleius to rush to their aid.

Also this was his intention to seek any major battle, and evade the
enemy through small Kaempfe and cutting the supply aufzureiben.

    Meanwhile, Pompey forced against the Perpenna
    Uebergang on the Ebro River and took position
    on the river Pallantia at Saguntum, near the promontory
    of Diana, from where, as we
    have said was that
    Sertorianer their connections with Italy and
    the East maintained. It was time that Sertorius
    himself appeared, and the superiority of his troops
    and his genius against the larger efficiency of the soldiers
    of his enemy threw into the equation. To the city of Lauro (at
    Xucar south of Valencia), which had declared
    for Pompey and Sertorius therefore siege was
    concentrated in the struggle
    a long time. Pompey is brought
    up to extreme, to the horror,
    alone, having given him
    individually over several departments, and
    together had been cut, was the great war, man, ibid
    Sertorianer he said to have surrounded and besieged
    already had invited, the interception of the siege
    army watch , suddenly and completely ausmanoevriert had not
    surrounded himself to be the intake and cremation of the city
    and the allied
    evacuation of the inhabitants of
    Lusitania under his bed from view - an event which has become
    a series of fluctuating cities in middle and eastern Spain again
Sertorius noted certain.

Happy now challenged Metellus.

In a heated meeting in Italica (near Seville), which had dared
Hirtuleius carelessly and in which both captains personally came
into the scuffle, Hirtuleius was also wounded, he beat them and
forced him to the real Roman territory to spaces and Lusitania after
throwing .

This victory allowed Metellus, with Pompey to unite.

The winter quarters 678/79 (76/75) were both captains in the Pyrenees.
For the next campaign 679 (75), they decided the enemy in his position
at Valentia jointly attack. But while heranzog Metellus, Pompey offered
to the embrasure of auszuwetzen Lauro and probably hoped laurels alone
to win the enemy before the battle Hauptheer. With joys Sertorius took the
opportunity to work with Pompey to beat before Metellus arrived.
Riverside Sucro (Xucar) met the armies of successive after fierce
battle Pompey was on the right wing and even beaten severely wounded
from the battlefield away. Although Afranius won with the left and took
the bearings of Sertorianer alone during the looting of Sertorius surprised
he was even forced to soft.

Sertorius would have on the following days the battle to renew managed
Pompeius' army would perhaps have been destroyed. Solo Metellus was now
come, had to instruct him in the Corps Perpenna niedergerannt and its
inventory, it was not possible, the battle against the two armies united
resume. The successes of Metellus, the Association of enemy forces, the
sudden halt following the victory spread terror among the
Sertorianern, and as with Spanish troops not infrequently happens,
this turnaround was a result of things the biggest part of the sertorianischen
soldiers. However, the discouragement dissipated as quickly as they came,
the white hind, which the military plans of the commander in the
quantity represented, it was soon popular than ever, in a short time, in
the same area, south of Saguntum (Murviedro), the firmly held in Rome,
Sertorius with a new army against the Romans, during which the Romans
sertorianischen Kaper intake from the sea difficult and Roman camps
in the lack's observations are made. It came again to battle in
the plains of Turiaflusses (Guadalaviar), and long the battle wavered.
Pompey with the cavalry of Sertorius was beaten and his brother
and Quaestor, the brave Lucius Memmius, killed, while over the Perpenna
Metellus wall and beat him against the attack of the enemy's main army
victoriously back, while he himself in the scuffle a wound received.
Once dispersed in this Sertorianische the army. Valentia that Gaius
Herennius for Sertorius kept busy, and was taken down.

Roemischerseits liked it a moment of hope addict with a tough opponent to
be ready. The Sertorianische army was gone, the Roman troops deep into
the inland country invaded, besieged the commander himself in the fortress
at the top Clunia Duero. With this in vain while they Felsenburg fact
have gathered elsewhere, the quotas of insurgierten communities; Sertorius
entschluepfte from the fort and stood before the end of the year as a
captain at the head of an army. Again had the Roman commander with
the bleak prospect of the inevitable renewal of the war work sisypheischen
winter quarters relate. It was not even possible, because they are in
communication with Italy and the East is so important, but from
friend and foe horribly broke Valentia area to take Pompey led his
forces first in the territory of the Vasconen ^ 7 (Biscay) and
overwinters then in the Vaccaeer (around Valladolid), Metellus did
in Gaul. ----------------------------------- ^ 7 ---------- In the
newly found fragments of Sallust, which the end of the campaign of
75 seem to belong, belong here, the words: Romanus [Exer] citus
(Pompey's) frumenti gra [tia r] emotus in Vascones i ..

[it] emque Sertorius mon ... o, cuius multum in [a further] at, ne ei perinde
Asia [iter et Italiae intercluderetur]. --------------------
------------------------- lasted five years so Sertorianische the war and
still was not over yet Hueber an end in sight. Indescribable suffered
from the same state. Bluete of Italic A youth went into the grueling
rigors of the campaigns used. The public funds are not only lacking
the Spanish revenue, but also had to pay for meals and the Spanish
armies very respectable sums annually to Spain to send you raise hardly
knew. The fact that Spain abandoned and impoverished, and so schoen daselbst
unfold Roman civilization was a severe shock, to say, especially with
such a fierce run and only too often the destruction of entire
communities initiative Insurrektionskrieg.

Even the cities that led to the Rome ruling party had had to endure
unspeakable hardship, which located on the coast had by the Roman fleet
with the necessary, be and the situation of inland communities was loyal
almost desperate. Almost no less suffered the Gallic landscape, partly
by the influx of Requisitions on foot and on horseback, on cereals and
money, partly by the oppressive burden of winter quarters, the result
of the failure to harvest 680 (74) into unbearable increased, almost all
municipal funds were coerced, the Roman bankers to take their refuge and
a crushing debt burden upon itself. captains and soldiers led the
war with reluctance. The captains were taken at a talent far superior
opponent, to a boring tough opposition to a war very serious dangers
and difficult erfochtener little brilliant success, it was claimed that
Pompey deal with it, is removed from Spain and elsewhere, some a desired
command is transferred to. The soldiers were also built much of
a campaign in which not only continue to get nothing was as hard
bounces and worthless prey, but also their highly irregular Sold
them was paid; Pompey end reported 679 (75) to the Senate that since
two years of pay in arrears and that the army threatens to unravel.

A considerable part of this would have Uebelstaende the Roman
government but managed to eliminate when they are about it would
have to gain the Spanish war with inferior looseness, not to say
with greater willingness to lead.

In the main, but it was neither their fault nor the fault of the military,
so that a superior genius, as Sertorius was on one for the Insurrektions
and Korsarenkrieg so very attractive ground of all numerical and
military superiority in spite of the small war years and years could
continue.

One end was so clear that much more Sertorianische Insurrektion with
other simultaneous REBELLIONS devour and thus increase their risk
seemed to want.

Ebendamals was on all the seas with the Flibustierflotten, was in Italy
with the rebel slaves in Macedonia with the Voelkerschaften to ment under
the lower Danube, and decided in the East King Mithradates, influenced by
the successes of the Spanish Insurrektion, the luck of the weapons
again to try.

That Sertorius with Italian and Macedonian enemies of Rome has adequate
follow links, can not be determined, though he, however, with the
Marianas in Italy was in constant movement, with the pirates on the
other hand, he had earlier made open alliance, and the Pontic
Kingdom, with which he a long through the courtyard to admire the
Roman emigrants have had consent, he now has a formal alliance
treatise in which the king Sertorius the Asia Minor states clientele,
but not the Roman province of Asia abtrat, moreover him a leader
of his troops to the appropriate officer and a number of soldiers
to send to the king opposed him 40 ships and 3000 talents (4 «million
thalers) transfer of being made.

Even remembered the wise politicians in the capital of the time when
Italy by Philip and Hannibal from the east and west was under threat, the
new Hannibal, said it may, after he, like his ancestor, Spain
conquered by themselves , just like this one with Spain in Italy
Steilkraeften even slightly earlier than Pompey arrive in order,
like the Phoenicians, the Etruscans and Rome Samniten against the
call to arms.

However, this comparison was much more witty than true. Sertorius
was far from strong enough for the giant enterprise of Hannibal
to be renewed and he was lost when he left Spain on his country and
Volkseigentuemlichkeit hung all his successes, and also more and
more forced to abdicate on the offensive.

His admirable Fuehrergeschick was the nature of his troops do not change,
the Spanish land storm remained what he was unreliable as the waves and
the wind, soon in masses up to 150000 Koepfer gathered, and soon
returned to a handful of people together in the same way remained
Roman emigrants undue, arrogant and stubborn.

The types of weapon, the longer Together the Corps, such as including the
cavalry, were in his army, of course, very inadequately represented.
His abilities and the officers of his core veterans of the war gradually
crumbled, and the reliability communities began to slog through the
Romans and the mistreatment by the officers Sertorianischen to be
tired and signs of impatience and the wavering loyalty to give.

It is noteworthy that Sertorius, Hannibal was also the same, never
about the hopelessness of his position is wrong, he had no counter
salvation pass, to bring about a settlement and would have been ready
at any moment, against the assertion in his homeland to live in peace may
his Command down. With the political orthodoxy knows nothing of comparison
and reconciliation.

Sertorius was not backward or sideways; inevitable, he had to
continue on the train entered once, as they also became narrower
and dizzy.

Pompeius' performances in Rome, where Mithradates' appearance in
the East gave emphasis had success.

He received from the Senate sent the necessary funds and strengthening
of two fresh legions.

Thus, the two captains in the spring 680 (74) back to work and again
exceeded the Ebro. The eastern Spain was a result of the battles on Xucar
Guadalaviar and snatched the Sertorianern; the battle is now
concentrated on the upper and middle Ebro to Hauptwaffenplaetze the
Sertorianer Calagurris, Osca, Ilerda. Metellus As in the earlier campaigns
had done the best so he won again the most important successes. His old
adversary Hirtuleius to him again entgegentrat, was completely beaten, and
fell even with his brother - an irreplaceable loss for the Sertorianer.
Sertorius, the Ungluecksbotschaft reached, as he himself was in the process
to him against the enemies to attack the messenger pushed down so that
His message is not discouraged, but long was the client not to hide.

One city after another arose. Metellus occupied the cities keltiberischen
Segóbriga (between Toledo and Cuenca) and Bilbilis (near Calatayud).
Pompey besieged Pallantia (Palencia Valladolid above), but horrified
Sertorius and Pompey urged, on Metellus withdraw; before Calagurris
(Calahorra in the upper Ebro), while Sertorius is thrown, they both
suffered losses sensitive.

Nevertheless, they could as they went to winter quarters, after
Pompey Gaul, Metellus in his own province, to considerable success
zuruecksehen, a large proportion of Insurgente had been added or with
the weapons had been defeated. Similarly, ran the campaign of the
following year (681 78), in which it was especially Pompey, who is
slowly but steadily, the field of Insurrektion restricted. The setback of
the decline of their weapons on the mood of the Insurgentenlager
was not enough. As Hannibal was also Sertorius' warlike successes
always need less, you began its military talent to doubt, he was
not the old "it was said that he spend the day at the feast or the
cup and the money verschleudere as the hours .

The number of outliers, the declining communities are multiplied. Soon came
the Roman emigrants plans against the life of the Lord in this box to
display it sounded enough to believe, especially since so many officers
Insurgentenarmee, including Perpenna only reluctantly under the
supreme command of Sertorius had added and for a long time by the Roman
governors of the Killer of enemy Oberfeld Mr amnesty and a high blood
money was running.

Sertorius withdrew those Inzichten the hat out of his person, the Roman
soldiers and gave them to select Spanish. Against the suspects even phasing
it terrible, but necessary rigor and sentenced without Ratmaenner in
it as usual, various accused to death, the friends who wrote them
in the circles of Missvergnuegten, he was now more dangerous than
the enemy.

Soon a second conspiracy was discovered, which is based in his own bars
had to show who was brought, had fugitive or die, but not all have
been betrayed and the other Verschworenen, among them especially Perpenna
found herein only one drive, to hurry. It was located in the
Headquarters Osca. This was at the event Perpennas commander reported
a brilliant victory, his troops erfochten had said, and when to celebrate
this victory of Perpenna organized festive meal because Sertorius
appeared, accompanied, as he used from his Spanish entourage. Against the
other custom Sertorianischen headquarters was in the festival soon became
the Bacchanalia; desert Speeches flew over the table, and it seemed
as if some of the guests were looking for an opportunity, an exchange of
words to begin; Sertorius threw himself on his bed back and seemed to hear
the noise about to want. Since klirrte a drinking cup onto the floor:
Perpenna gave the concerted character. Marcus Antonius, Sertorius' neighbor
at table, led the first string against him, and since the Adopted
turned and tried to assemble, the murderer rushed over him and
held him down until the other Tischgaeste, all participants in the
conspiracy, based on ends of the ring and threw the defenseless, to
both arms held until Mr.

Field achen (682 72). With him died his faithful companion. Thus ends one
of the largest, if not the biggest man that Rome spawned previously, a
man who, under more fortunate circumstances, perhaps the regenerator of
his homeland would have become, by the betrayal of the wretched emigrants
gang, which he opposed the home was condemned to lead.
Stoller's father and mother were poor emigrants who made their way to the
West with the instinct for sordid prosperity native to their race and
class; and they set up a small butcher shop in the little Indiana town
where their son was born, and throve in it from the start. He could
remember his mother helping his father make the sausage and head-cheese
and pickle the pigs' feet, which they took turns in selling at as great a
price as they could extort from the townspeople. She was a good and
tender mother, and when her little Yawcup, as the boys called Jacob in
mimicry after her, had grown to the school-going age, she taught him to
fight the Americans, who stoned him when he came out of his gate, and
mobbed his home-coming; and mocked and tormented him at play-time till
they wore themselves into a kindlier mind toward him through the
exhaustion of their invention. No one, so far as the gloomy, stocky,
rather dense little boy could make out, ever interfered in his behalf;
and he grew up in bitter shame for his German origin, which entailed upon
him the hard fate of being Dutch among the Americans. He hated his native
speech so much that he cried when he was forced to use it with his father
and mother at home; he furiously denied it with the boys who proposed to
parley with him in it on such terms as "Nix come arouce in de Dytchman's
house." He disused it so thoroughly that after his father took him out of
school, when he was old enough to help in the shop, he could not get back
to it. He regarded his father's business as part of his national
disgrace, and at the cost of leaving his home he broke away from it, and
informally apprenticed himself to the village blacksmith and wagon-maker.
When it came to his setting up for himself in the business he had chosen,
he had no help from his father, who had gone on adding dollar to dollar
till he was one of the richest men in the place.

Jacob prospered too; his old playmates, who had used him so cruelly, had
many of them come to like him; but as a Dutchman they never dreamt of
asking him to their houses when they were young people, any more than
when they were children. But in the majority of the real aristocracy was
more powerful than the passion of the cool reflection, while admittedly
still Selbsttaeuschungen about the probable success and concerns before
the inevitable revenge of the winner manifold part. None well
judged with such painful clarity and so free from fear and of hope for
the situation of things as Marcus Cato. Fully convinced that after the
days of Ilerda and Pharsalos the monarchy was inevitable, and
morally strong enough to even this bitter truth to recognize and
act, he wavered for a moment whether the Constitution Party about
the war are still allowed to continue, the necessary for a lost
cause many victims zumutete who did not know what they did.

But when he decided, against the monarchy to fight, not for victory, but
faster and fuller honorable demise, so he sought as far as possible in
this war no hineinzuziehen the downfall of the Republic survive and
with the monarchy to accept liked . As long as the Republic only been
threatened, he said, had the right and the duty had also mild and poor
citizens to participate in the battle to force, but now it is senseless
and cruel, necessary to the individual that it is consistent
with the Republic lost to ruin. Not only he dismissed anyone who sought
to return to Italy, as the wildest of the wild Parteimaennern, the
son of Gnaeus Pompeius, on the execution of these people, including
the Cicero did, it was only Cato, who through his moral authority
prevented.

Also coveted Pompey no peace. If he were a man who earned it, to
the place to stand where he stood, as one might think that he had understood
it, that anyone who takes the crown, can not back into the track of
ordinary existence and therefore for those who fehlgegriffen, no more
space on the earth. Solo hardly thought Pompey too big to ask a favor
to the winner, perhaps would have been magnanimous enough to it not
to fail, but much more likely to be low. Whether he can not be won
over, to entrust to Caesar, it was that, in its habitual unclear and
indecisive manner, after the first direct impression of the disaster
waned Pharsalos was started again, hope to create Pompey was determined
the continuing struggle against Caesar and after Pharsalischen yet
another battlefield to search for.

So, therefore, like Caesar always wisdom and moderation to the resentment
of his opponents to placate her and try to minimize the number was,
the struggle continues nonetheless immutable. The leading men were almost
all in Pharsalos mitgefochten, and although they, with the exception
of Lucius Ahenobarbus Domitian, on the flight down was made, all safety
rescued, but they were all scattered out why they were not, a Community
plan for the continuation of the campaign to arrange. Most of them
did, partly by Illyrian and Macedonian barren mountains, sometimes
with the help of the fleet, according to Corfu, where Marcus Cato
the zurueckgelassene reserve commanded.

Here was a kind of Presidency Cato War instead of the Metellus Scipio,
Labienus Titus, Lucius Afranius, the son of Gnaeus Pompey and others
attended, only partly to the absence of the Lord and the Oberfeld
embarrassing uncertainty about his fate, the inner part of the party
Zerfahrenheit prevented a joint decision-making, and it was finally all
the way to him for himself or for the common cause of expediency
seemed. It was indeed highly difficult, among the many straws that you
could clip is about, who to call on the longest over water would hold.
Macedonia and Greece were the Battle of Pharsalos lost. It was Cato,
after being on the news of the defeat had cleared Dyrrhachion immediately
after Kerkyra, Rutilius lupus nor the Peloponnese for a time, for the
Constitution Party.

For a moment it seemed as if the Pompeianer in Patra in the Peloponnese
defend alone the news of Calenus' move enough to be away from here. Kerkyra
to say neither was tried. At the Italian coast and sizilischen had after
the victories of Dyrrhachion there posted Pompeianischen Squadron against
the harbors of Brundisium, Messana and Vibo not insignificant successes
and Messana including all equipment in the fleet diverge Caesar burnt,
only the mission ships, most of Asia Minor and Syria, were a result of the
battle Pharsalischen removed from their communities, so that the
expedition so that by itself took an end. In Asia Minor and Syria
were currently no troops, neither the one nor the other party,
except the army bosporanischen of Pharnakes, which supposedly
accounts for Caesars, various landscapes of the opponents had used
the same.

In Egypt was still a handsome Roman army, formed from the site by
Gabinius zurueckgelassenen and since from Landstreichern Italic and
Syrian or Cilician Raeubergesindel recruited troops alone understand
it themselves, and was by the Egyptian vessels Rueckberufung soon
officially confirmed that the Court of Alexandreia had no intention,
in the beaten party bearable, or even its power to withdraw its
troops courtesy.

Slightly more favorable prospects offered the vanquished in the West dar.
in Spain were among the population, the sympathies Pompeianischen so
powerful that the Caesarianer from there to Africa planned attack so had
failed and a Insurrektion seemed inevitable, and a renowned leader in the
Peninsula would become apparent. In Africa, however, had the coalition,
or rather the real rulers daselbst, Koenig Numidien of Juba, since
the autumn of 705 (49) prepared undisturbed. So when the whole east by
the Battle of the coalition Pharsalos was lost, so she could on the
other hand, in Spain, probably in Africa and certainly the war in
honorable ways continue, because the help of the last of the Roman
municipality untertaenigen Koenigs of Numidien against fellow revolutionary
claim to take for the Romans was probably a painful humiliation, but by
no means a betrayal of country.

Who indeed in this struggle of despair neither right nor honor was a bit
further, which might also themselves outside the law statements which
Raeuberfehde open, or in independent neighboring states Buendnis kicking
in, the country's enemy in the internal dispute inside, or finally, the
monarchy with the lips confessional, the restoration of the legitimate
republic with the dagger of the assassins operate. That to overcome
austraten and the new monarchy cancels least was the natural and
correct expression of the extent of their desperate situation. The mountains
and especially the sea was at that time in living memory as the Freistatt
all iniquities, including the unbearable misery of the oppressed and
of the right; Pompeianern Republicans and it was close to the monarchy
of Caesar, they ausstiess, in the mountains and on defiant the seas to
war, and especially close to the piracy on a larger scale, in securely
closed, with specific objectives incorporated. Even after the dismissal
from the squadron had reached the east they are still a very
respectable own fleet, while Caesar is still as good as warships was
without, and their connection with the Delmatern acting in their own
interest against Caesar were up, their rule over the main seas and
Hafenplaetze, gifts for the Seekrieg, particularly in the small,
the most favorable prospects.

Wie einst Sullas Democrats hounding geendigt had Sertorianischen with the
insurgency, the pirates initially, then Raeuberfehde and finally it was a
very serious war was, it was when the aristocrats Catone, or among the
followers of Pompey so much spirit and fire was like in Marian of democracy,
and if its the right Seekoenig be found in the still waters unbezwungenen
probably one of Caesar's monarchy and perhaps independent of these communities
are growing. In all respects sharper disapproval of the idea deserves an
independent neighboring state in the Roman civil war hineinzuziehen and
through him a counter-revolution to bring about: Law and conscience
condemn the Ueberlaeufer stricter than the robbers, and easier to find the
winning Raeuberschar the way back to a free and orderly community, as the
country's enemy RECONSTITUTED emigration. The way it was hardly
likely that the defeated party in this way would lead to a restoration
can. The only state to which they could try to help, was that of the
Parthians, and from this it was at least doubtful whether their cause
of his to make, and very unlikely that he opposed Caesar durchfechten
they will. The era of Republican conspiracies but had not yet come.
Thus, while the wreckage of the beaten party baffled by fate and could
push the struggle was decided did not know how nor where, Caesar had,
as always, fast acting decisively and quickly, left everything
aside in order to pursue Pompey, the only of his opponents, whom
he respected as an officer, and those whose personal capture the
one and perhaps the most dangerous half of his opponents would have
probably paralyzed.

With less team he drove over the Hellespont - his single hit in the same
boat on an enemy, according to the Black Sea fleet and was certain the
whole, by the customer of the Pharsalischen battle with drugs such
as battered team that captured - and hurried away, and the necessary
measures were taken, Pompey in the East. This was from the
battlefield Pharsalischen went to Lesbos, where his wife and his second
son Sextus picked up and continued to work after around Asia Minor
and Cilicia from there sailed Kypros.

He would have to his party comrades Kerkyra or Africa can reach alone
reluctance against his aristocratic allies and the thought of opening,
after the date of Pharsalos and especially after his disgraceful
flight awaited him there, seem to have persuaded him, his way for
themselves and prefer to go in protecting the Partherkoenigs than the
Cato to go. While he was employed by the Roman Steuerpaechtern and
merchants on Kypros money and slaves, and to recover a bunch of slaves
from 2000 to rearm, he received the news that Antiocheia itself had
declared for Caesar and the way to the Parthians was no longer open.
So he changed his plan and went to sail to Egypt, where in the army a lot
of his old soldiers served and the location and the rich resources of
the country's time and the opportunity granted to the war to reorganize.
In Egypt had Ptolemaeos Auletes after 'death ( 703 51 May) its children,
who sechzehnjaehrige about Cleopatra and the decennial Ptolemaeos Dionysos,
according to the will of her father and collectively as a husband, the
throne; alone soon had the brother, or rather his guardian Potheinos
sister driven from the rich and they forced a refuge in Syria to seek,
from where they met with broadcasters to her father's kingdom zurueckzugelangen.
Ptolemaeos and Potheinos stood just to the eastern border against
them to meet with the entire Egyptian army in Pelusion than Pompey
in the Kasischen promontory was at anchor and let the king asking
him to allow the landing.

The Egyptian Court, length of the disaster at Pharsalos informed, was
in terms Pompey rejected, only the majordomo of King, Theodotos, pointed
out that in this case, Pompey probably its compounds in the Egyptian
army will use the same aufzuwiegeln; it is safer and also with regard
to Caesar preferable if we take the opportunity to Pompey from the world.
Likewise misguided political reasoning in the statesmanship of the
Hellenistic world is not easy to effect. The general of the royal troops,
Achillas, and some of Pompey 'former soldiers drove with a barge on
Pompey's ship approached and invited him to the king to come and, as the
fairway is shallow, its bark to climb. In disembarkment pricked the
Kriegstribun Lucius Septimius hinterruecks him down under the eyes of his
wife and his son, which from the roof of their ship from the killings had
to watch without having to save or revenge can (28 September 706 48). On
the same day on which he thirteen years earlier, about Mithradates
triumphantly into the capital was confiscated, ends on an inhospitable
desert dunes of the beach kasischen by the hand of one of its
soldiers from the old man, a man age through the Great and awaiting
years Rome had dominated.

A good officer, but the way of mediocre gifts of mind and heart, had the
fate of demonic resistance dreissigjaehriger all shiny effortless
tasks just about him to solve all of the other planted and cared about
him laurels only allowed to break, just about all Conditions for
obtaining the highest force him to take to get him an example of incorrect
size up how the story, no one knows.

Of all the pitiful roles, there is no pathetic than that, more than to
apply to, and it is the fate of the monarchy, but because hardly any
thousand years in the people a man up, which means not just Koenig but
also is that this dismal inevitably liable to her.

If this mismatch between receipts and being perhaps never been as harsh
as emerged in Pompey, it may be the most serious thought to linger
that he is in a sense the series of the Roman monarch opens. As Caesar,
Pompey 'traces below, on the roadstead of Alexandreia arrived,
everything was already over.

With deep shock, he turned from him as the murderer of the main man on the
ship entgegentrug, his son and his companion for many years into the
reign and have been living in his power to Egypt after he had come. The
answer to the question of how Caesar with Pompey caught would be procedural,
the dagger of the assassin jump off, but if the human part, in great
Caesar's soul still room next to the ambition was to tell him the
protection of the former friend's offer, it also called for his
interest, the same in any other way to cancel than by the executioner.

Pompey was twenty years the recognized arbiter of Rome had, so far
gewurzelte rule is not subject to the death of the Lord.

Pompey's death triggered the Pompeianer not, but gave them instead of an
elderly, incompetent, and at whose head vernutzten two sons Gnaeus and
Sextus two guides, both young and ruehrig and the second of which was a
strong capacity. The newly-established hereditary monarchy immediately
tacked parasitically the hereditary Praetendententum, and it was
very doubtful whether this change of persons Caesar no longer lost
when he won.

Indes Caesar in Egypt had now nothing else to do, and Romans and
Egyptians expected that he immediately go back under sail and in
the subjugation of Africa and of the immense organization of work
will make to him after the imminent victory.

Young Caesar, true to his custom, where he was once in the wide
range was in the ratio immediately and personally to settle finally
and firmly convinced that neither the Roman occupation of the court
nor any resistance would be expected, also in urgent money embarrassment
, landed in Alexandreia with the two who accompanied him, to 3200
men and 800 together legions of Celtic and German cavalry, took
quarters in the royal castle and walked out the necessary sums to
recover and the Egyptian succession to arrange without disturbing
to leave by Potheinos 'nase as saying that Caesar is about these
little things not his own affairs so important miss fans.

Against the Egyptians did he meet, and even indulgent.

Although the assistance that they had done Pompey, establishing a
Kriegskontribution legitimate, but that was thus spared exhausted
country and under the adoption of what is on in the year 695 (59)
stipulates and since only about half the sum paid off was further
residues, only a final payment of 10 million denarii (3 million
crowns) are requested.

The two brothers grew kriegfuehrenden the immediate cessation of
hostilities and both anbefohlen for investigation and decision of
the dispute before the arbitration Mr loaded.

It added that, the royal boy was already in the castle and even
Cleopatra was there on.

Caesar said the kingdom of Egypt, the testament of Auletes provided,
the two fraternal husband Ptolemaeos Dionysus and Cleopatra, and
also gave unprompted, at the Kassierung had earlier recovery of
Kyprischen Empire, as this Egyptian Sekundogenitur to the younger
children of the Auletes Arsinoe and the Ptolemaeos younger people.

In the silent prepared a Ungewitter themselves. Alexandreia was a cosmopolitan
city as well as Rome, in Italian population of the capital, following hard
on ruehrigem trading spirit of artisan skill, sense of science and art
for their far superior, in the residents was a lively national
Selbstgefuehl and if not a political sense, but a restless spirit of her
street riots so regularly and so heartily discourage left today as the
Paris, one can think about their feelings, as in the residence of the
Roman Lagiden commander turn their kings and before his tribunal was
right to. Potheinos and the royal boy, both understandably very unhappy
with both the peremtorischen Einmahnung old debt as with the intervention
in the dispute the throne, which is only in favor of Cleopatra could
fail and modest, sent to meet the demands of the Roman temples and treasures
of the golden Tischgeraet the Koenigs with intentional Ostentation to
melting in the coin, with deep bitterness watched the pious and superstitious
of the world famous beauty of her farm as a separate possession enjoy
Egypt The bare walls of their temples and the wooden cups on the table
of their king.

Even the Roman occupation army, which by their long stay in Egypt and the
many intermediate marriages between soldiers and Egyptian girl was
much denationalisiert and also a lot of old soldiers of Pompey and course
Italic criminals and slaves in its ranks counted grollte Caesar, at whose
command their action on the Syrian border had to stop and his handful of
haughty legionaries.
She's a perfect little electric motor.
I don't believe any Yankee girl could equal her."

"She would expect to marry a millionaire if she did. What astonishes one
over here is to see how contentedly people prosper along on their own
level. And the women do twice the work of the men without expecting to
equal them in any other way. At Pupp's, if we go to one end of the
out-door restaurant, it takes three men to wait on us: one to bring our
coffee or tea, another to bring our bread and meat, and another to make
out our bill, and I have to tip all three of them. If we go to the other
end, one girl serves us, and I have to give only one fee; I make it less
than the least I give any three of the men waiters."

"You ought to be ashamed of that," said his wife.

"I'm not. I'm simply proud of your sex, my dear."

"Women do nearly everything, here," said Burnamy, impartially. "They
built that big new Kaiserbad building: mixed the mortar, carried the
hods, and laid the stone."

"That makes me prouder of the sex than ever. But come, Mr. Burnamy! Isn't
there anybody of polite interest that you know of in this crowd?"

"Well, I can't say," Burnamy hesitated.

The breakfasters had been thronging into the grove and the galleries; the
tables were already filled, and men were bringing other tables on their
heads, and making places for them, with entreaties for pardon everywhere;
the proprietor was anxiously directing them; the pretty serving-girls
were running to and from the kitchen in a building apart with shrill,
sweet promises of haste. The morning sun fell broken through the leaves
on the gay hats and dresses of the ladies, and dappled the figures of the
men with harlequin patches of light and shade. A tall woman, with a sort
of sharpened beauty, and an artificial permanency of tint in her cheeks
and yellow hair, came trailing herself up the sun-shot path, and found,
with hardy insistence upon the publicity, places for the surly-looking,
down-faced young man behind her, and for her maid and her black poodle;
the dog was like the black poodle out of Faust. Burnamy had heard her
history; in fact, he had already roughed out a poem on it, which he
called Europa, not after the old fable, but because it seemed to him that
she expressed Europe, on one side of its civilization, and had an
authorized place in its order, as she would not have had in ours. She was
where she was by a toleration of certain social facts which corresponds
in Europe to our reverence for the vested interests. In her history
there, had been officers and bankers; even foreign dignitaries; now there
was this sullen young fellow . . . . Burnamy had wondered if it would do
to offer his poem to March, but the presence of the original abashed him,
and in his mind he had torn the poem up, with a heartache for its
aptness.

"I don't believe," he said, "that I recognize-any celebrities here."

"I'm sorry," said March. "Mrs. March would have been glad of some
Hoheits, some Grafs and Grafins, or a few Excellenzes, or even some mere
well-borns. But we must try to get along with the picturesqueness."

"I'm satisfied with the picturesqueness," said his wife. "Don't worry
about me, Mr. Burnamy."

"Why can't we have this sort of thing at home?"

"We're getting something like it in the roof-gardens," said March. "We
couldn't have it naturally because the climate is against it, with us. At
this time in the morning over there, the sun would be burning the life
out of the air, and the flies would be swarming on every table. At nine
A. M. the mosquitoes would be eating us up in such a grove as this. So we
have to use artifice, and lift our Posthof above the fly-line and the
mosquito-line into the night air. I haven't seen a fly since I came to
Europe. I really miss them; it makes me homesick."

"There are plenty in Italy," his wife suggested.

"We must get down there before we go home."

"But why did nobody ever tell us that there were no flies in Germany? Why
did no traveller ever put it in his book? When your stewardess said so on
the steamer, I remember that you regarded it as a bluff." He turned to
Burnamy, who was listening with the deference of a contributor: "Isn't
Lili rather long? I mean for such a very prompt person. Oh, no!"

But Burnamy got to his feet, and shouted "Fraulein!" to Lili; with her
hireling at her heels she was flying down a distant aisle between the
tables. She called back, with a face laughing over her shoulder, "In a
minute!" and vanished in the crowd.

"Does that mean anything in particular? There's really no hurry."

"Oh, I think she'll come now," said Burnamy. March protested that he had
only been amused at Lili's delay; but his wife scolded him for his
impatience; she begged Burnamy's pardon, and repeated civilities passed
between them. She asked if he did not think some of the young ladies were
pretty beyond the European average; a very few had style; the mothers
were mostly fat, and not stylish; it was well not to regard the fathers
too closely; several old gentlemen were clearing their throats behind
their newspapers, with noises that made her quail. There was no one so
effective as the Austrian officers, who put themselves a good deal on
show, bowing from their hips to favored groups; with the sun glinting
from their eyeglasses, and their hands pressing their sword-hilts, they
moved between the tables with the gait of tight-laced women.

"They all wear corsets," Burnamy explained.

"How much you know already!" said Mrs. March. "I can see that Europe
won't be lost on you in anything. Oh, who's that?" A lady whose costume
expressed saris at every point glided up the middle aisle of the grove
with a graceful tilt. Burnamy was silent. "She must be an American. Do
you know who she is?"

"Yes." He hesitated, a little to name a woman whose tragedy had once
filled the newspapers.

Mrs. March gazed after her with the fascination which such tragedies
inspire. "What grace! Is she beautiful?"

"Very." Burnamy had not obtruded his knowledge, but somehow Mrs. March
did not like his knowing who she was, and how beautiful. She asked March
to look, but he refused.

(It is cool to the inner door.) (Napoleon throws the packet on the sofa
annoying:) Heaven, give me patience!

(He planted decided before the door opened and adjusted to it as the way.)
If you have any sense of personal danger, or you belong to the women who
love it, black and blue to be beaten? (Dame.) I thank you , Sir - that
would undoubtedly a very delightful sensation, but I prefer it. I just
want to go home, nothing more.

I have been malicious enough to steal your dispatches, but you have
them back and have forgiven me, because (his rhetorical tone of
amiable repetitive:) After you have obtained the same battle against
the vanquished magnanimously, as you advance in the face of the
enemy were adamant .

Do you want me to say goodbye?

(It reaches him friendly hands.) (Napoleon the comity with a gesture
unbridled rage way back, opens the door and called angrily:) Giuseppe!
(Volume:) Giuseppe! (He proposes the door and comes in the middle of the
room. The lady goes a little against the vineyard in which to avoid
it.) (Giuseppe appears at the door:) commend excellence? (Napoleon.)

Where's the fool? (Giuseppe .) The Lord Lieutenant, as ordered
excellence have a good meal and get me now proves the honor roll
with me to get the time to sell.

(Napoleon.) Send him - bring him here and come with him.
She pointed at a corner so far off on the other side that no one could be
distinguished, and then was gone, with a smile flashed over her shoulder,
and her hireling trying to keep up with her.

"We're all very proud of Lili's having a hired man," said Burnamy. "We
think it reflects credit on her customers."

March had begun his breakfast with-the voracious appetite of an
early-rising invalid. "What coffee!"

He drew a long sigh after the first draught.

"It's said to be made of burnt figs," said Burnamy, from the
inexhaustible advantage of his few days' priority in Carlsbad.

"Then let's have burnt figs introduced at home as soon as possible. But
why burnt figs? That seems one of those doubts which are much more
difficult than faith."

"It's not only burnt figs," said Burnamy, with amiable superiority, "if it
is burnt figs, but it's made after a formula invented by a consensus of
physicians, and enforced by the municipality. For all these circumstances,
and by the ease and cleanliness of this entry, as well tenazon
their background, and given the height or situation which, it seems
to me to be your very own top-harbor craft to navigate to the South
Sea.

I have left to run the pen, moved from the fervent zeal to serve
the King and the nation, because I do not want any foreign in no
time had the glory of what we teach should know by seeing world our
ignorance and laziness, when that happens.

I also remember not to take away from seeing in Buenos Aires on
reasoning that they can import the State the Patagonian coast, with
description of its lands, waters, moods, fruit produced and can
produce, without having seen or painted, or understand his painting
of which represent a large role those who have been here, or in San
Jose, have not seen that these fields are, as their failure, laziness,
cowardice and ineptitude has not resulted in four separate steps,
perhaps the water or room: and they have a casting vote in any
meeting, and are united with their lazy and hate work, are the most
committed circle to form against these establishments.

But if the passionate love of the King and service to our nation
and a desire to work, the cause has been exceeded, I hope the
kindness of you, that I know and have experienced procedural way
of thinking and love of work , separating the superfluous throughout
this report, or forget it all together, but has nothing useful, so
that my ignorance is at the heart of oblivion.

God save you many more years. Bergantin _Nuestra aboard the Lady of
Mount Caramel and Animas_, Black River, and April 24 1782. BLM to you his
most attentive server, BASILIO VILLARINO. Mr D. Viedma Francisco.
XIV.

_Informe Of Virey Vertiz, in order to leave the establishments of the
Coast Patagónica_. Exmo. Sir, Sir. As resolved by the SM in order to VE
real me dated 15 July 1781, I agreed with what they could Intendente reduced
costs patagonian establishments, met the real needs of the treasury
by the war and events of Peru reduced to preserve the village, not
far by trying to occupy other points and Rio San Julian Black.

Nevertheless, I did not save the scruples that I have, if not do this
to you what I think about the usefulness or harm of these stocks in
order that dealt with the real spirit, it can be resolved more
convenient.
"It's very different with us; we're not young," she urged, only half
seriously.

Her husband laughed. "I see you want me to defend him. Oh, hello!" he
cried, and she saw Burnamy coming toward them with a young lady, who was
nodding to them from as far as she could see them. "This is the easy kind
of thing that makes you Blush for the author if you find it in a novel."


XXX.

Mrs. March fairly took Miss Triscoe in her arms to kiss her. "Do you know
I felt it must be you, all the time! When did you come? Where is your
father? What hotel are you staying at?"

It appeared, while Miss Triscoe was shaking hands with March, that it was
last night, and her father was finishing his breakfast, and it was one of
the hotels on the hill. On the way back to her father it appeared that he
wished to consult March's doctor; not that there was anything the matter.

The general himself was not much softened by the reunion with his
fellow-Americans; he confided to them that his coffee was poisonous; but
he seemed, standing up with the Paris-New York Chronicle folded in his
hand, to have drunk it all. Was March going off on his forenoon tramp? He
believed that was part of the treatment, which was probably all humbug,
though he thought of trying it, now he was there. He was told the walks
were fine; he looked at Burnamy as if he had been praising them, and
Burnamy said he had been wondering if March would not like to try a
mountain path back to his hotel; he said, not so sincerely, that he
thought Mrs. March would like it.

"I shall like your account of it," she answered. "But I'll walk back on a
level, if you please."

"Oh, yes," Miss Triscoe pleaded, "come with us!"

She played a little comedy of meaning to go back with her father so
gracefully that Mrs. March herself could scarcely have told just where
the girl's real purpose of going with Burnamy began to be evident, or
just how she managed to make General Triscoe beg to have the pleasure of
seeing Mrs. March back to her hotel.

March went with the young people across the meadow behind the Posthof and
up into the forest, which began at the base of the mountain. At first
they tried to keep him in the range of their talk; but he fell behind
more and more, and as the talk narrowed to themselves it was less and
less possible to include him in it. When it began to concern their common
appreciation of the Marches, they even tried to get out of his hearing.

"They're so young in their thoughts," said Burnamy, "and they seem as
much interested in everything as they could have been thirty years ago.
They belong to a time when the world was a good deal fresher than it is
now; don't you think? I mean, in the eighteen-sixties."

"Oh, yes, I can see that."

"I don't know why we shouldn't be born older in each generation than
people were in the last. Perhaps we are," he suggested.

"I don't know how you mean," said the girl, keeping vigorously up with
him; she let him take the jacket she threw off, but she would not have
his hand at the little steeps where he wanted to give it.

"I don't believe I can quite make it out myself. But fancy a man that
began to act at twenty, quite unconsciously of course, from the past
experience of the whole race--"

"He would be rather a dreadful person, wouldn't he?"

"Rather monstrous, yes," he owned, with a laugh. "But that's where the
psychological interest would come in."

As if she did not feel the notion quite pleasant she turned from it. "I
suppose you've been writing all sorts of things since you came here."

"Well, it hasn't been such a great while as it's seemed, and I've had Mr.
Stoller's psychological interests to look after."

"Oh, yes! Do you like him?"

"I don't know. He's a lump of honest selfishness. He isn't bad. You know
where to have him. He's simple, too."

"You mean, like Mr. March?"

"I didn't mean that; but why not? They're not of the same generation, but
Stoller isn't modern."

"I'm very curious to see him," said the girl.

"Do you want me to introduce him?"

"You can introduce him to papa."

They stopped and looked across the curve of the mounting path, down on
March, who had sunk on a way-side seat, and was mopping his forehead. He
saw them, and called up: "Don't wait for me. I'll join you, gradually."

"I don't want to lose you," Burnamy called back, but he kept on with Miss
Triscoe. "I want to get the Hirschensprung in," he explained. "It's the
cliff where a hunted deer leaped down several hundred feet to get away
from an emperor who was after him."

"Oh, yes. They have them everywhere."

"Do they? Well, anyway, there's a noble view up there."

Even the English Goldmuenzung is derived from the Belgian and originally
identical with it. ----------------------------------- ----------------
Gaul was following the reports of the elderly is relatively well populated.
Individual details can conclude that in the Belgian districts, approximately
900 heads to the square mile came - a relationship, how about it for today
and for Livland Wallis applies - in the Swiss canton about 1100 ^ 3,
it is likely that in the districts which were cultivated as the
Belgian and less mountainous than the Swiss, like the Biturigen, Arverni,
Haeduern, the figure was even higher. The crop was probably made in Gaul,
because just like Caesar's contemporaries in the Rhine landscape the
custom of the marl noticed ^ 4 and the ancient Celtic custom of beer
from barley (cervesia) to prepare, also for the early and wide
dissemination of the cereal culture speaks alone he was not respected.
Even in the more civilized south it was still free for the Celts as not
decent, to guide the plow. Was much higher in the Celtic animal
husbandry, for which the Roman landowner in this era of both the Celtic
Viehschlags as well as the brave, the riding and with the expert care
of the animals familiar Celtic slaves preferably operated like 5th ^
Notably in the northern Celtic Landscapes predominated by livestock.

The Brittany was at Caesar's time of grain poor country. In the northeast
were dense woods, to the heart of the Ardennes is followed, almost
without interruption from the North Sea to the Rhine, and in the
hallways today so blessed Lorraine Flanders and then grazed the menapische
and treverische shepherd in his semi-impenetrable oak sows. Ebenwie in
Potal by Roemer to replace the Celtic Eichelmast and Kornbau
wool underfoot, so go the sheep and the farm economy in the plains of the
Scheldt and the Meuse, they are back. In Britain even was the
threshing of the grain is not yet usual, and in the northern lines heard
here entirely on agriculture and animal husbandry was the only known land
use. The oil and wine, the rich Massalioten yield abwarf, was beyond
the Cevennes to Caesar's times have not yet operated.
-------------------------- ^ 3 --------------------------- The first
contingent of Belgian cantons, only the Remer, so the landscape
between the Seine and Scheldt, and up against the east Reims and
Andernach from 2000-2200 square miles, is estimated at around 300,000
men calculated that if the Bellovaker specified for the ratio of
the first array to the entire team as weapons generally considered
valid, the number of weapons at 500000 BELGIUM Dutch Spanish German
French and then the total population at least 2 million itself.

The Helvetie with Nebenvoelkern counts extract their heads 336,000,
assuming that they were already on the right bank of the Rhine were
ousted, their area is about 300 square miles to be posted. Whether the
servants here are counted, it is the less, as long as we do not
know which form of slavery when the Celts had, what Caesar (Gall. 1, 4)
of Orgetorix 'slaves, and debtors tells hearing, speaking more for than
against the Mitzaehlung. That way any such attempt, what the old story,
above all, lacking the statistical basis, by combining to replace with
cheaper caution must be taken, the circumspect reader nor misjudge
him as a matter of vital away . ^ 4 "In Gaul beyond the Alps in the
landlocked country on the Rhine, I have," tells of Scrofa Varro
rust. 1, 7, 8, "as I commanded there, a few strokes to enter, where
neither the wine nor yet the olive orchards will continue, where
you pit with white chalk fertilize the fields, where neither mine
nor Seesalz, but the salty coal some burnt wood is used instead of
salt. " This description probably refers to the vorcaesarische time
and on the eastern stretches of the old province, such as the
ALLOBROGES landscape; later Pliny describes (nat. 17, 6, 42f.)

Detail the Gallo-British American marl. ^ 5 "from good Stroke in Italy
are particularly Gallic steers, namely to the field work, while the
Ligurian no right to obtain "(Varr. rust. 2, 5, 9). Here is the
Cisalpinische Gaul meant solely daselbst the livestock goes back on but
no doubt the Celtic era. The Gallic Klepper (Gallici canterii) already
does Plautus (Aul. 3, 5, 21).

"Not every race is getting ready for the Shepherd business, neither
the Bastuler nor the Turduler (both in Andalusia) are suitable for
it; best are the Celts, especially for riding and pack animals
(iumenta)" (Varro rust. 2, 10, 4 ).

Zusammensiedeln -----------------------------------------
The Gauls were the House of from tilted, open villages, and everywhere
there was only the Swiss canton of counts in the year 696 (58),
four hundred out of a lot of individual farms. But it is also not lacking
in walled cities, whose half-timbered walls of both their utility than
by the delicate Ineinanderfuegung of beams and stones the Romans noticed
while admittedly even in the cities of ALLOBROGES the wooden buildings
alone were listed. Such cities had Helvetie twelve and just as the
Suessiones, however, while in the northern districts, for example in
the Nervii, it probably also had cities, but the population in more wars
in the swamps and woods behind the walls as protection sought and
beyond the Thames even primitive defensive protection of Waldverhacke
quite take the place of cities in war and joined the only
Zufluchtsstaette of people and herds was.

With the relatively significant development of the urban life is closely
linked to the lively traffic on land and at sea. Everywhere there
were roads and bridges. The river shipping, including streams, such as
the Rhone, Garonne, Loire and Seine by asking myself, was handsome and
rich. But far stranger still is the ocean of the Celts. Not only are
the Celts appear to have that nation, the first Atlantic Ocean regular
traffic, but we also find here the art of ships to build and manage,
on a remarkable height. The shipping of the peoples of the Mediterranean,
as is in the nature of their busy waters understandable is relatively
long at the helm remain the war vessels of the Phoenicians, Greeks
and Romans were at all times Rudergaleeren on which the sail only
as an occasional reinforcement of the rudder was used, only the
merchant ships are in the epoch of the developed ancient civilization
have been real sailors ^ 6 The Gauls, on the other hand, operated
on the canal to Caesar's time as long afterwards a sort of leather
portable barges, which are essentially ordinary rowboats seem to
have been, but on the West Coast drove the Gaul santons, the Picton,
especially those with large Veneti , albeit clumsily-built vessels,
with oars not been moved, but sailing with leather and iron chains
which were related and this not only for their trade with Britain,
but also in the sea fight.

So here we encounter not just the first cruise on the open ocean, but here
also the first sailing ship completely the place of the rowboats
used - a step forward, albeit declining the lively old world not
to use and understand its unuebersehliche our results only rejuvenated
culture period is employed to move slowly. -----------------------------------------
------------------ ^ 6 leads the designation of the Kauffahrtei or
the "round" as opposed to the "long" or the warship and the similar
position against the "rowing boats' (Epik / o / poi n / e / es) and
the "purchase" driver "(olkades" Dion.

Hal. 3, 44), also the low manning of Kauffahrteischiffe, based on the
tremendous amounted to no more than 200 men (Rheinisches Museum
NF 11, 1874, p. 625), while in the galley of three habitual been
concealing 170 oarsmen were needed.

See FK Movers, Die Phoenicier. Bonn-Berlin 1840-56, vol 2, 3, p.
167f. -- -------------------------------------------------- ------
This regular shipping between the UK and the Welsh coast is the
very close political connection between the residents of the dual
channel also explain how the flourishing of overseas trade and
fisheries.

It was the Celts, including Brittany, the tin mines of the Cornwallis
from England and brought it to the river and country roads of the
country as the Celts and Narbo Massalia proceeded. The indication that at
Caesar's time Voelkerschaften individual at the Rheinmuendung of fish
and bird eggs lived, one can probably relate to that here the sea fishing
and the collection of extensive in scope Seevoegeleier was operated.
Encapsulates the isolated and sparse information about the Celtic trade
and transport us stayed in thoughts additions, so it conceives that the
duties of the river and seaports in the budgets of individual
canton, for example, where the Haeduer and the Veneti, played a big
role and that of the main god of their nation was regarded as the
protector of roads and trade and also as the inventor of the trades.

Ganz can void after the Celtic industry not been, how the enormously
Instead of the Celts and their peculiar skill, to imitate each
type, and any statement of Caesar also highlighted.

In most branches seems the unions but they are not about the mass of the
ordinary to have collected, and the later in the middle and northern
Gaul flourishing manufacturing linen and wool fabrics is demonstrated
only by the Romans was founded.

One exception, and as far as we know, the only one that makes the
processing of metals.

It is not rare technical excellence and smooth Kupfergeraet even now,
in the trenches of the Celts to the country comes, and the carefully
calibrated Arverni Goldmuenzen are still living witnesses of the
skill Celtic Copper and gold workers, and probably agree to the
reports of the ancients, that the Romans of the tinning Biturigen
from the Silver learned Alesi - inventions, the first by the
Zinnhandel was placed close enough and it is likely both still in
the period of Celtic freedom has been made.

Hand in hand with agility in the handling of metals, the arts, they
win, in part, notably in the iron mines in the Loire valley, such
a mining height reached was that the mine workers at the sieges
played a significant role.

The Romans in this period common opinion that Gaul one of the richest
countries of the golden earth was admittedly is refuted by the
well-known Bodenverhaeltnisse and by the Celtic Fundbestaende
Graeber, where gold only sparingly and with far less often than
appears in the similar findings of true home countries of the gold,
it is also this idea probably only have been caused by what Greek
and Roman travelers soldiers, without a doubt, not without strong
exaggeration, their fellow countrymen from the splendor of the
Arverni kings and the treasures of the temple to tell Tolosan knew.

But totally attacked from the air but not the narrator.

It is believe that in and around the rivers, which consist of the Alps and
the Pyrenees stream Goldwaeschereien and Goldsuchereien used in
the present value of unproductive labor, in roheren times and slave
economy, with benefits and in significant quantities were operated;
Moreover Handelsverhaeltnisse fans the Gaul, as not infrequently
the halbzivilisierten Voelker, amass the capital of a dead noble
metals have benefited.

It is worth noting the low level of fine art, the skill in the mechanical
treatment of metals just as bright body. The penchant for colorful and
shiny ornaments shows the lack of Schoenheitssinn, and a tiresome confirmation
grant Gaulish coins with her soon about simple, soon adventurous,
but always designed childish and almost without exception with
unparalleled brutality exported images.

It is perhaps without example, that a centuries-long with a degree
of technical skill is much more experienced coin is limited to two
or three Greek stamp again and always nachzuschneiden disfigured.

However, the poetry of the Celts verwuchs highly valued and closely
linked to the religious and even with the political institutions
of the nation, we find the spiritual as the court and begging Poetry
in bloom.

Also found science and philosophy, though in the shapes and the gangs
of the country's theology, the Celts in a certain care and Hellenic
humanism already willing to include where and how he approached it. The
customer of the Scripture was at least the priests in general. The most
part operated in the free time of Caesar to Gaul, the Greek, as in
the other Helvetie did, only in the southern districts of the same was
already at that time due to the movement of the Romanised Celtic Latin
Mostly, we, for example, on this Arverni Muenzen time encounter. Also, the
political development of the Celtic nation is very notable
appearances.

The state Constitution rests with her like all over the Geschlechtsgau
with the Fuersten, the Council of the older and the community of
free men weapons, but their owner is that they contain these
Gauverfassung never hinausgelangt is.

The Greeks and Romans came very early to replace the Gaues as the basis
for the political unity of the wall: where two Gaue in the
same walls are joined, merged them into a community, where residents
some of their fellow citizens a new wall anwies, was regularly so that
a new, limited only by the ties of reverence and a maximum of clientele
with the parent community, linked state. For the Celts, on the other hand,
the "residents" at all times of the clan, the Gau and not any city are
Fuerst and Council, and the general Gautag is the final arbiter in the
state. The city has, as in the Orient, only merchant and strategic,
non-political importance, which is why since the Gaulish villages, even
walled and very handsome as Vienna and Genava, the Greeks and Romans are
not villages. At the time of Caesar, the original Clanverfassung much
unchanged in the island of the Celts and in the north of the mainland
Gauen the community claimed the country's highest authority, the prince
was in essential matters bound by its decisions, the council was
abundant - it is one of six hundred individual clans Members - seems
not to have more means than the Senate under the Roman kings.

By contrast, in the lively south of the country had one or two people age
before Caesar - the children of the last kings still lived in his time
- at least in the major clans, the Arverni, Haeduern, Sequanern, Helvetie,
a revolution has occurred, the rule removed and Koenig the nobility of
violence in the hands there.
But you can see yourself that she's young and
good-looking. She did speak beautifully of her son, and if it were not
for him, I don't believe she would hesitate--"

"For heaven's sake, what are you driving at?" March broke in, and she
answered him as vehemently:

"He's asked her to marry him!"

"Kenby? Mrs. Adding?"

"Yes!"

"Well, now, Isabel, this won't do! They ought to be ashamed of
themselves. With that morbid, sensitive boy! It's shocking--"

"Will you listen? Or do you want me to stop?" He arrested himself at her
threat, and she resumed, after giving her contempt of his turbulence time
to sink in, "She refused him, of course!"

"Oh, all right, then!"

"You take it in such a way that I've a great mind not to tell you
anything more about it."

"I know you have," he said, stretching himself out again; "but you'll do
it, all the same. You'd have been awfully disappointed if I had been calm
and collected."

"She refused him," she began again, "although she respects him, because
she feels that she ought to devote herself to her son. Of course she's
very young, still; she was married when she was only nineteen to a man
twice her age, and she's not thirty-five yet. I don't think she ever
cared much for her husband; and she wants you to find out something about
him."

"I never heard of him. I--"

Mrs. March made a "tchck!" that would have recalled the most consequent
of men from the most logical and coherent interpretation to the true
intent of her words. He perceived his mistake, and said, resolutely:
"Well, I won't do it. If she's refused him, that's the end of it; she
needn't know anything about him, and she has no right to."

"Now I think differently," said Mrs. March, with an inductive air. "Of
course she has to know about him, now." She stopped, and March turned his
head and looked expectantly at her. "He said he would not consider her
answer final, but would hope to see her again and--She's afraid he may
follow her--What are you looking at me so for?"

"Is he coming here?"

"Am I to blame if he is? He said he was going to write to her."

March burst into a laugh. "Well, they haven't been beating about the
bush! After the war was Jugurthinischen Koenig Bocchus from Mauritania
probably from the western seas to the port of Salda, in today's Morocco
and Algiers, the Mauritanian upper house of kings probably from different
Fuersten of Tingis (Tangier), which had previously been found
(Plut.

Sert. 9) and which presumably Sallust (hist 3, 31 Kritz) Leptasta and
Cicero (Vat. 5, 12) Mastanesosus belong, may in limited boundaries
have been self employed or even when he went to his fief, similar
as already over Syphax many Stammfuersten bade (App.

Pun. 10) and at this time in the neighboring Numidien Cirta, but probably
under Jubas upper glory, which was obsessed Fuersten Massinissa (App.
civ. 4, 54). To 672 (82) we find Bocchus' agency, a Koenig Bocud or
Bogud (Oros. hist 5, 21, 14), the Bocchus son.

From 705 (49) appears to split the kingdom between the king Bogud the
west, and the Koenig Bocchus the eastern half has and what the
subsequent divorce in Mauritania Boguds kingdom or the state of
Tingis and Bocchus' Empire or the State of Jol (Caesarea) zurueckgeht
(Plin. nat. 5, 2, 19, see Bell.

Afr. 23). ----------------------- ------------------------------------------
More questionable transactions were still among the troops to
Caesar in southern Italy had to pull together to work with them to
Africa ueberzuschiffen.

There were mostly old legions in Gaul, Spain, Thessaly Caesars
throne had founded.

The spirit of these troops had not improved the victories, the long break
in Italy under completely shattered.

The almost superhuman demands that the captain made to them and their
terrible consequences in the series only to gelichteten grell
hervortraten, let himself in these Eisenmaennern a sourdough back
of resentment, which only time and rest needed for fermentation in
the minds to bring .

The only man who impressed them, had been one years away and almost lost
their superior officers, but far more shy in front of the soldiers as
they saw before them and the brutality against each Weltbesiegern their
neighborhood and each donor Indisziplin after.

When the command is to Sicily einzuschiffen, the soldier came, and
the lush Wohlleben in Campania again with a third, the Spanish and
tribulations of Thessaly, certainly not following campaign should
swap, tore the overly long and relaxed allzuploetzlich wiederangezogenen
reins.

The legions refused to obey, before the promised gifts to them were paid,
and the Caesar had sent officers with Hohnreden, yes with Steinwuerfen
back.

An attempt to the incipient rebellion by increasing the amounts promised
to dampen, not only had no success, but the soldiers broke en masse in
order to fulfill the promises made in the capital of the commander to
blackmail. Individual officers, the mob's back on Rotten tried, were
slain. It was a terrible danger. Caesar had the few in the city's soldiers
occupy the gates to the right feared looting at least for the first
start-off, and suddenly appeared at the churning pile with the question
of what they coveted. One cried: the farewell. Currently, he promised,
as requested, granted. Because of the gifts, he added Caesar, which he
for the triumph of his soldiers had promised, and because of the acres,
which he promised them, but certainly had, they would like in the days
when he and the other soldiers would triumph, in he reported, even in the
triumphs of course they could, as previously released, of course, do not
participate.
The
Marches believed they had seen the growth of the romance which had
eventuated so happily; and they saw other romances which did not in any
wise eventuate. Carlsbad was evidently one of the great marriage marts of
middle Europe, where mothers brought their daughters to be admired, and
everywhere the flower of life was blooming for the hand of love. The
Sullanischen proconsuls and Propraetoren were in their district much
sovereign and nobody really had control, and the Caesars were probably
held in breeding a strict Mr. Diener, who has through the unit and the
life duration of his power to the subjects of a natural and reasonable
relationship had as many of those, annually changing little tyrant.

The Governor's actions were even further below the two consuls annually
assignor and sixteen praetor distributed, but by the Emperor eight of
the latter almost appointed and the distribution of the provinces covered
by the competitors depended solely by him, the matter of the Emperor
awarded. Also, the competence of the governor was really limited. There
they remained as head of the judiciary and the administrative control
of the municipalities, but their command was paralyzed by the new high
command in Rome and all that the governor asked to aide the Hebewesen
probably already now, even in the imperial provinces essentially
serves to carry so that henceforth the governor with a support staff was
surrounded, which can be either by the laws of the military hierarchy or
by the even more stringent domestic breeding of the Emperor necessarily
depended. If now the quaestor and his proconsul appeared as if the were
to collect the declared members of a burning Raeuberbande, Caesars
officials were there to the weak against the strong to protect, and to
replace the existing, worse than the control void knight - or Senator
courts took the responsibility for them before a fair and unnachsichtigen
monarch. The law on extortion, whose provisions have Caesar in
his first consulate worse, was the top commander in the Offices of
him with relentless, even on the same letters above Schaerf applied,
and the tax officials do if they so dared, an injustice to allow skill,
lost their Lord, as servants and freed after the horrific house right at
that time tended Buess. The extraordinary public expense were on the
right balance and the real emergency RECONSTITUTED the ordinary
substantially reduced. The extensive regulation of the tax system was
previously thought: the extension of tax freedoms, the continuous
reduction of direct taxes, the restriction of the tithe system in
Africa and Sardinia, the complete elimination of Mittelsmaenner
in the collection of direct taxes were for the Provincial beneficial
reforms.

The fact that Caesar, following the example of one of its greatest
democratic predecessor, the Sertorius, the subjects of the
Einquartierungslast has rid and want to stop the soldiers, themselves
permanent city-like state to set up camp, is not proof, but he was,
at least after he Praetendenten - with the king had swapped roles,
not the man, the subject the soldier to disclose and it was thought
in his mind, as the heirs of his policies such war camp and made
this war camps cities created in which the Italic civilization in
the midst of the hot spots of barbaric frontier landscapes found .

By far more difficult than the outrages officials to control it was
the Provincial of the overwhelming superiority of the Roman capital to
liberate. Almost had the same break is not without resources which are
even more dangerous than the evil, the government could only temporarily
stop some abuses, such as Caesar, the use of the state title envoy to
proliferate purposes prohibited, and the manifest and clear the rape and
extortion by sharp handling of the general criminal law and also to the
provinces are classified oppose usury laws, a thorough cure of the evil
but by the better management of the Provincial Revival Prosperity
expected. Deferred available to the remedy over individual provinces,
have in recent times on several occasions acted. Caesar himself had 694
(60) as governor of the Hereafter Spain creditors two-thirds of its
revenue debtors assigned to it to pay off. Similar Lucius Lucullus had
been as governor of Asia Minor, a portion of the interest rate remains
grossly swollen almost collects, for the remaining Part creditors rely
on the fourth part of the proceeds of the debtor and its lands to an
appropriate rate of house rent or the same slave labor incoming uses. It
is not believed that Caesar after the civil war similar overall debt
liquidations in the provinces would have, but it may be, after just
noticed and after what happened in Italy, hardly be doubted that Caesar
also pointed towards this, or at least in his plan was. So when the
Emperor, so far as it could force people to oppression by the Provincial
officials and capitalists Rome relieved, so you could also by him
from the new government with strengthening security expect that they
scare away the wild Grenzvoelker and the country - and Seepiraten will
dissipate as the rising sun chased away the fog. Like the old wounds still
hurt, Caesar appeared with the subjects vielgeplagten the dawn of a
reasonable amount of time, centuries back, the first intelligent and
humane government and a peace policy, not of cowardice, but based on the
force. Well-liked with the best Roman subjects especially at the
corpse of the great liberator grieve.

With this end the existing abuses, was not the main thing in Caesar's
provincial reform. In the Roman Republic were, in the view of the aristocracy
and democracy, the posts have been nothing like as they are often
called: Landgueter of the Roman people, and as such they have been used
and exploited. It was now over. The provinces, as such, should gradually
go down to the tapered Hellenic-Italian nation a new and more spacious
home to prepare their individual districts not only because of another's
sake, but all for one and one for all the suffering and damage to the
nation, for the old in Italy was no help, the new interest in the rejuvenated
home, the fresher, broader, greater people living by themselves overcome.
We know these ideas were not new. The standing-up for centuries of
emigration from Italy in the provinces had a long, albeit unconsciously,
the emigrants themselves, such an extension of Italy prepared. In first
contest was way Gaius Gracchus, the creator of the Roman democratic
monarchy, the author of transalpinischen conquests, the founders of the
colonies, Carthage and Narbo, Italy over the Italian borders hinausgelenkt,
then the second great statesman, which the Roman democracy spawned,
Quintus Sertorius , started the barbaric western civilization to Latin
training; he gave the Spanish Youth Making Roman dress and held it to
Latin and to speak at the education institution he founded in Osca the
Italian higher education to adapt. At Caesar's government
was already taking a massive, albeit as the continuity of concentration
largely lacking Italic population in all provinces and client states
exist - in order of the formal Italian cities in Spain and the
southern Gaul to mention, we have only to recall the numerous Buergermeister
troops which Sertorius and Pompey in Spain, Caesar in Gaul, Numidien in
Juba, the Constitution Party in Africa, Macedonia, Greece,
Asia Minor and Crete aushoben; to the admittedly uebelgestimmte Latin
lyre on which the city of Corduba Poetenfest Sertorianischen
in the wars of the Roman military praise and Price singing, the elegance
of their language just because estimated Uebersetzungen Greek poetry, the
oldest known ausseritalische poet, the Trans-Alpine Publius Terentius
Varro of the Aude, shortly after Caesar's death published. On the other
hand, the penetration of the Latin and the Greek system, you want to say
, as old as Rome. Even when the unification of Italy had the winning
Latin nation defeated all other nationalities are assimilated, but
the only Greek, as it was to be inserted without maintained with them
to merge. Where was the Roman legionaries, then followed the Greek
schoolmaster, in its way no less a conqueror, after him, early on, we
find prominent Greek resident teachers at the Guadalquivir river, and in
the prison ward of Osca taught Greek as well as Latin. The Roman higher
education itself was absolutely nothing else than the proclamation of the
gospel great Hellenic Art and Art in the Italian idiom; against modest
arrogation of civilizing conqueror, their first in the same language the
barbarians of the West to announce the Hellene could at least not
loudly protest. Already saw the Greeks everywhere, and determined exactly
where the Nationalgefuehl purest and most were of the barbarism
Denationalization threatened borders, such as Massalia, Nordgestade
on the Black Sea and the Euphrates and Tigris, the shield and the
sword of Hellenism in Rome, and in fact took Pompey 'Staedtegruendungen
in the Far East after centuries of interruption of Alexander
beneficial work again.

The idea of an Ital-Hellenic empire with two languages and a common
nationality was not new - he would otherwise nothing had as a
mistake, but that he is fluctuating draft safer version of dispersed
concentrated foundation started to progress, is the work of the
third and largest democratic statesmanlike Rome.

The first and most essential condition of political and national leveling
of the empire was the preservation and extension of the two to
Community Mr.

Chen certain Nations, as early as possible the elimination of standing
beside her barbarian or barbarous tribes mentioned. In some sense, one
could, however, alongside the Greeks and Romans is a third
nationality, which with the same time in the world competed ubiquity,
and also in the new state of Caesar an important role to play
certainly was.

These are the Jews.

The strange, yielding tough people were in the old as well as in
today's world everywhere and nowhere at home everywhere and nowhere
and powerful.

The Diadochen David and Solomon did for the Jews of that time little more
than Jerusalem today it means for the nation was well for their
religious and spiritual unity a visible indication in the small
kingdom of Jerusalem, but she herself was by no means in the shank
of the subjects Hasmonaeer, but in the innumerable Parthische through
the whole and the entire Roman Empire Jews scattered activity.

In Alexandreia similarly named and formed in Cyrene the Jews of these
cities within their own local administration and self-defined communities,
the Jewish neighborhoods of our cities are not unequal, but free,
and by a "People's Lord" as primary judges and administrators led.

How numerous even in Rome the Jewish population was already before
Caesar, and at the same time as the Jews landsmannschaftlich closely
together at that time also demonstrates the remark of a writer this
time that there is a concern for the governor was the Jews in his
province are too close to because he will surely be rank after his
return from the metropolitan mob ausgepfiffen them.

Also at that time was the predominant business of the Jews of the trade:
with the conquering Roman Kaufmann moved at that time the Jewish merchants
everywhere out as well later with the Genoese and Venetian, and next to
the Roman capital flows everywhere in the Jewish Kaufmannschaft together.
Also at that time, finally, we encounter the peculiar antipathy of the
occidental against this so thoroughly Oriental race and her strange
opinions and morals. This Judaism, although not the most positive train
anywhere in the positive image of the former Voelkermengung, was
nonetheless a natural course of things evolving historical moment,
which the State is neither man nor deny combat and the Caesar was
much more ebenwie his predecessor Alexander, in proper recognition
of the feed ratio preferably tat.

When Alexander, the founder of Alexandrian Judaism, not so much less for
the nation as did their own David by the temple of Jerusalem, it
was also Caesar the Jews in Alexandreia as in Rome by special discounts
and privileges named and protected its owner against cult the Roman as
against the Greek local parsons. The two big men did not, of course, the
Hellenic or Hellenistic-Italic Nationality equal to the Jewish side to
represent. But the Jew who does not like the Western Pandoragabe the
political organization has received and against the state is essentially
indifferent behavior; also the same hard core of its national peculiarity
than willing to give up the same with any Nationality and wrapped
up to a certain degree of foreign popularity is anschmiegt - Exactly
the Jew was created for a state, which on the rubble of hundreds
of lively Politie built and with a sense abstract and a priori
verschliffenen Nationality should be equipped.

Even in the old world Judaism was an effective leaven of cosmopolitanism
and of national decomposition, preferably there is a legitimate member of
the State of Caesar, whose Politie but really nothing more than
Weltbuergertum, whose popularity is basically nothing but humanity
was.

However, the positive elements of the new bourgeoisie remained the
only Latin and the Greek nationality.

With the specific state of the Italian Republic, it was therefore
too late, but it was nothing but a very understandable, but also
very silly talk of the nobility of the resentment that Caesar Rome
Italy and intentionally ruin to the focus of the Greek empire in
the East and relocate to the capital the same or Ilion Alexandreia
to make.

Rather retained in the Latin Caesar Organization Nationality always about
the weight, as this is already issued, that he had any available
in Latin, but Greek speaking for certain landscapes also issued in
the Greek language.

In general, he ordered the ratio of the two great nations in his monarchy
ebenwie they united Italy in which his Republican predecessor had ordered
the Greek nationality was protected where it existed, according to the
Italian property and expanded it with the inheritance of the race
determined to dissolve.

It was already necessary because a complete equality of Greek and Latin
Elements in the state in all probability, in a very short time that would
have brought about disaster, which some centuries later the
Byzantinismus performed, because the Greek was not just mentally
out in all directions the Roman superior beings, but also to mass,
and had in Italy, even the swarms of forced or voluntarily migrating
to Italy and Hellenes Halbhellenen a myriad inconspicuous, but their
influence is not high enough anzuschlagender apostles.

To only look at the vital areas to do this, the regiment of the Greek
Roman lackeys about the monarch as old as the monarchy: the first in the
well as long list of those odious individuals Pompey 'trusted servant
Theophanes of Mytilene, which by his power over the weak Lord
probably more than any other man to the outbreak of the war between
Pompey and Caesar has contributed.

Not quite wrong with it was after his death by his fellow countrymen
revered divine: he opened the Chamber of Government servants of the
imperial era, which somehow also a rule of the Greeks over the
Romans was.

The Government had therefore every reason for the spread of Hellenism
in the West at least not from the top down to promote. If Sicily is not
just the Tenth pressure relieved, but also its communities the Latin law
grew, his time probably the full equality with Italy to follow,
then Caesar's intention was only to the beautiful, but then abandoned
and economically the most part in Italic hands island, what the
nature is not so much to the neighboring country of Italy has
appointed as its the most beautiful landscapes in Italy fully absorb
it.

In other ward, but the Greek, where it was preserved and protected. How
close the political crisis it appealed to the Emperor, the solid pillars
of Hellenism in the West and in Egypt umzustuerzen, Massalia and
Alexandreia were neither destroyed nor denationalisiert.

On the other hand, the sector grew by Roman colonization by
Latinisation as with all forces and to various points of the kingdom
by the government lifted.

The wicked from a formal association laws, and brutal power development
emerged, but to free hand against the destruction of certain nations
to have inescapable need record that at all, not by special act of the
government to municipalities or private land ceded in the provinces
of the state property, the current holder only tolerated at any time
revoked Erbbesitz have also been held by Caesar and by him from a
Democratic Party theory to a fundamental principle of monarchical justice
levied.
"I should consider it a liberal education. They have brought these things
to a perfect system in Europe. There is nothing to make life pass
smoothly like inflexible constancy to an entirely simple custom. My
dear," he added to his wife, "I wish we'd seen this sage before. He'd
have helped us through a good many hours of unintelligible comedy. I'm
always coming as Burnamy's guest, after this."

The young fellow swelled with pleasure in his triumph, and casting an eye
about the theatre to cap it, he caught sight of that other potentate. He
whispered joyfully, "Ah! We've got two kings here to-night," and he
indicated in a box of their tier just across from that where the King of
Servia sat, the well-known face of the King of New York.

"He isn't bad-looking," said March, handing his glass to General Triscoe.
"I've not seen many kings in exile; a matter of a few Carlist princes and
ex-sovereign dukes, and the good Henry V. of France, once, when I was
staying a month in Venice; but I don't think they any of them looked the
part better. I suppose he has his dream of recurring power like the
rest."

"Dream!" said General Triscoe with the glass at his eyes. "He's dead sure
of it."

"Oh, you don't really mean that!"

"I don't know why I should have changed my mind."

"Then it's as if we were in the presence of Charles II. just before he
was called back to England, or Napoleon in the last moments of Elba. It's
better than that. The thing is almost unique; it's a new situation in
history. Here's a sovereign who has no recognized function, no legal
status, no objective existence. He has no sort of public being, except in
the affection of his subjects. It took an upheaval little short of an
earthquake to unseat him. His rule, as we understand it, was bad for all
classes; the poor suffered more than the rich; the people have now had
three years of self-government; and yet this wonderful man has such a
hold upon the masses that he is going home to win the cause of oppression
at the head of the oppressed. When he's in power again, he will be as
subjective as ever, with the power of civic life and death, and an
idolatrous following perfectly ruthless in the execution of his will."

"We've only begun," said the general. "This kind of king is municipal,
now; but he's going to be national. And then, good-by, Republic!"

"The only thing like it," March resumed, too incredulous of the evil
future to deny himself the aesthetic pleasure of the parallel, "is the
rise of the Medici in Florence, but even the Medici were not mere
manipulators of pulls; they had some sort of public office, with some
sort of legislated tenure of it. The King of New York is sovereign by
force of will alone, and he will reign in the voluntary submission of the
majority. Is our national dictator to be of the same nature and quality?"

"It would be the scientific evolution, wouldn't it?"

The ladies listened with the perfunctory attention which women pay to any
sort of inquiry which is not personal. Stoller had scarcely spoken yet;
he now startled them all by demanding, with a sort of vindictive force,
"Why shouldn't he have the power, if they're willing to let him?"

"Yes," said General Triscoe, with a tilt of his head towards March.
"That's what we must ask ourselves more and more."

March leaned back in his chair, and looked up over his shoulder at
Stoller. "Well, I don't know. Do you think it's quite right for a man to
use an unjust power, even if others are willing that he should?"

Stoller stopped with an air of bewilderment as if surprised on the point
of saying that he thought just this. He asked instead, "What's wrong
about it?"

"Well, that's one of those things that have to be felt, I suppose. But if
a man came to you, and offered to be your slave for a certain
consideration--say a comfortable house, and a steady job, that wasn't too
hard--should you feel it morally right to accept the offer? I don't say
think it right, for there might be a kind of logic for it."

Stoller seemed about to answer; he hesitated; and before he had made any
response, the curtain rose.


XXXIV.

There are few prettier things than Carlsbad by night from one of the many
bridges which span the Tepl in its course through the town. If it is a
starry night, the torrent glides swiftly away with an inverted firmament
in its bosom, to which the lamps along its shores and in the houses on
either side contribute a planetary splendor of their own. By nine o'clock
everything is hushed; not a wheel is heard at that dead hour; the few
feet shuffling stealthily through the Alte Wiese whisper a caution of
silence to those issuing with a less guarded tread from the opera; the
little bowers that overhang the stream are as dark and mute as the
restaurants across the way which serve meals in them by day; the whole
place is as forsaken as other cities at midnight. People get quickly home
to bed, or if they have a mind to snatch a belated joy, they slip into
the Theater-Cafe, where the sleepy Frauleins serve them, in an exemplary
drowse, with plates of cold ham and bottles of the gently gaseous waters
of Giesshubl. Few are of the bold badness which delights in a supper at
Schwarzkopf's, and even these are glad of the drawn curtains which hide
their orgy from the chance passer.

The invalids of Burnamy's party kept together, strengthening themselves
in a mutual purpose not to be tempted to eat anything which was not
strictly 'kurgemass'. Mrs. March played upon the interest which each of
them felt in his own case so artfully that she kept them talking of their
cure, and left Burnamy and Miss Triscoe to a moment on the bridge, by
which they profited, while the others strolled on, to lean against the
parapet and watch the lights in the skies and the water, and be alone
together. The stream shone above and below, and found its way out of and
into the darkness under the successive bridges; the town climbed into the
night with lamp-lit windows here and there, till the woods of the
hill-sides darkened down to meet it, and fold it in an embrace from which
some white edifice showed palely in the farthest gloom.

He tried to make her think they could see that great iron crucifix which
watches over it day and night from its piny cliff. He had a fancy for a
poem, very impressionistic, which should convey the notion of the
crucifix's vigil. He submitted it to her; and they remained talking till
the others had got out of sight and hearing; and she was letting him keep
the hand on her arm which he had put there to hold her from falling over
the parapet, when they were both startled by approaching steps, and a
voice calling, "Look here! Who's running this supper party, anyway?"

His wife had detached March from her group for the mission, as soon as
she felt that the young people were abusing her kindness. Sestertius (=
16000 talents; App. Mithr. 116), because the officers 100 million received
(Plin. nat. 37, 2, 16), by the common soldiers but each Sestertius
6000 (Plin., App.), it included the Army nor the triumph of
approximately 40000 man --------- ------------------------------------
In the spring 688 (66) went to Pompey after Galati to supreme command
over the troops Luculls to take over and with them in the Pontic
area einzuruecken where the Cilician legions were instructed to
follow.

In Danala, a city of Trokmer, met the two leaders together, but the
reconciliation of the mutual friends had hoped to lead, was not achieved.
The introductory pleasantries were soon in bitter discussions about
them in fierce exchange of words, one disgruntled difference than
you came. As Lucullus continued, just as he would be still in office,
honorary gifts to make and distribute lands, it declared all Pompey after
his arrival by his predecessors for completed acts void. Formally, he
was in his right; moral bar in the treatment of a deserved and more than
enough to hurt your opponent was not looking at him. And it is the season
allowed exceeded the Roman troops the Pontic frontier. Against them stood
with 30,000 men on foot and 3000 horsemen Koenig Mithradates. Abandoned
by its allies and with increased power and energy of Rome attacked, he
made an attempt to obtain peace, alone of unconditional submission to
Pompey claimed he wanted to hear nothing - what could the unfortunate
campaign bring him worse?

To his troops, mostly archers and horsemen, not the terrible shock of the
Roman line infantry disclose important it slowly before the enemy back and
the Roemer urged him on his cross and follow Quermaerschen, where he, where
was this great opportunity, with its superior cavalry of the enemy and
stand by the Romans, the aggravation of the food is not prepared
low tribulations.

Impatient Pompey finally gave it to the Pontic army and went to
accompany the king is leaving to take the country to subdue, he moved to
the upper Euphrates, about him, and gradually entered the eastern
provinces of the Pontic Empire.

But Mithradates followed the left Euphratufer after, and in the
countryside ANAÏTE or Akilisenischen arrived, he moved the way the
Romans in the solid with water and probably sent Dasteira Castle,
from where he and his light troops the Blach-dominated field.

Pompey, still the Cilician legions without deprivation and they are not
strong enough to be in this position to say, had back over the Euphrates
and in the wooded, gorges of Tieftaelern and often cut through the
terrain Pontic Armenia before the horsemen and archers of the King
protection.

Only when the troops arrived from Cilicia and makes it possible now
to transfer power to resume the offensive, and went back to Pompey,
surrounded the camp of the King with a chain of nearly four German
miles long, and held it here formally blocked, while the detachment,
the Roman wide area around durchstreiften.

Not in the Pontic The camp was large, had been covering the niedergestossen
be finally fuenfundvierzigtaegigem linger after the King had his
sick and wounded, because he could not save, even the enemies fall
into the hands wanted by their own people down and broke for the
night time as possible to silence against the East.

March on the back seat
of the two-spanner without demur. He asked her leave to smoke, and then
he scarcely spoke to her. But he talked to the two men in front of him
almost incessantly, haranguing them upon the inferiority of our
conditions and the futility of our hopes as a people, with the effect of
bewildering the cruder arrogance of Stoller, who could have got on with
Triscoe's contempt for the worthlessness of our working-classes, but did
not know what to do with his scorn of the vulgarity and venality of their
employers. He accused some of Stoller's most honored and envied
capitalists of being the source of our worst corruptions, and guiltier
than the voting-cattle whom they bought and sold.

If an accident to me widerfährt! - A child - I tremble .-- Who feeds
me as a child? Can you eat me? "" I? "Said Johann," the mag's time
teaching. But it's also not my feeds: The above is already feeding us, the
confidence about us. " 'The information about us." This heard Steffen.
'What', he thought, 'I want to pack Aeff? The above you? Oh, how
clever! "No," cried he, "let's hope you refresh others! The over you
is not so great. If I were a bank leg is nourished, so I will also have
turned. "Who here frightened and ran from the garden, which was Johann
and Hanne. But when the gentleman gave them the apple thief perhaps?
I do not think it's done. The honor I have never wanted me, they would
have never found me. If you choose to zugezählten hours, a glorious
celebration dress to flee? also treasures I have never sought. What it
helps them on short routes for thieves to be more than harbor,
where you consume the least, how long's, so I'm out and posterity
feet below what it needs when it happens to know?

white I just who I am. praise of laziness laziness, I'll finally be too
bring a little ode! O! sour ... ... ... How is it to me after you
dignity besingen! But I will do my best: After the work is well-ruhn.

Highest Good, who has only you, Its undisturbed life ... Oh, yawn ... I
... I ... will be dull.
Narrow strips of wheat and rye, which the men
were cutting with sickles, and the women in red bodices were binding,
alternated with ribands of yellowing oats and grass, and breadths of
beets and turnips, with now and then lengths of ploughed land. In the
meadows the peasants were piling their carts with heavy rowen, the girls
lifting the hay on the forks, and the men giving themselves the lighter
labor of ordering the load. From the upturned earth, where there ought to
have been troops of strutting crows, a few sombre ravens rose. But they
could not rob the scene of its gayety; it smiled in the sunshine with
colors which vividly followed the slope of the land till they were dimmed
in the forests on the far-off mountains. Nearer and farther, the cottages
and villages shone in the valleys, or glimmered through the veils of the
distant haze. Over all breathed the keen pure air of the hills, with a
sentiment of changeless eld, which charmed March, back to his boyhood,
where he lost the sense of his wife's presence, and answered her vaguely.
She talked contentedly on in the monologue to which the wives of
absent-minded men learn to resign themselves. They were both roused from
their vagary by the voice of General Triscoe. Also moved Quintus
Hortensius, the orator ungeratener famous son, a fleet in the Tyrrhenian,
Publius Dolabella, a second in the Adriatic sea, which partly supported
the defense, some for the imminent crossing into Greece mitverwandt
be.

If Pompey would attempt to intrude landing in Italy, had Marcus Licinius
Crassus, the oldest son of Caesar's old colleagues, and now the
defense of Gaul, the younger brother of Marcus Antonius Gaius from
Illyricum to lead.

Meanwhile, the alleged assault had been long in coming. Only in the midsummer
of the year was in Illyria handle common. Here governor Gaius Caesar
Antonius with his two legions to the island Curicta (Veglia, in the Gulf
of Quarnaro), Caesar's admiral Publius Dolabella with 40 ships in the
narrow Meerarm between this island and the mainland. The latter squadron
attacked Pompey 'Flottenfuehrer in the Adriatic Sea, Marcus Octavius with
the Greek, Libo Lucius Scribonius Illyrian fleet with the department,
it destroyed all vessels Dolabellas and Anthony cut on his island.

Him to save, came from Italy a corps under Basilus and Sallustius
and the squadron of Hortensius in the Tyrrhenian Sea; alone that
neither this nor could the far superior enemy fleet anzuhaben
something.

The legions of Antonius had their fate.

Inventories fell to an end, the troops were difficult and Meute
mathematically, with the exception of a few departments, which
succeeded in rafts to reach the mainland, stretching out the Corps
still fuenfzehn cohorts strong, the weapons and was on the ships
Liboš run after Makedonien to Pompeianische then in the army to be
classified, while Octavius fell to the subjugation of troops exposed
to the Illyrian coast to complete.

The Delmater, now in these areas is by far the most powerful
Voelkerschaft, the major island city Issa (Lissa) and other localities
taken the party of Pompey, Caesar alone Pendant claimed in Salome
(Spalato) and Lissos (Alessio) and held in the former city is not
only brave the siege, but did as they were brought to the extreme,
a failure with such success that Octavius lifted the siege and after
removal Dyrrhachion went to overwinter.

This in Illyricum by the Pompeianischen fleet erfochtene success,
although not insignificant, but effect on the overall course of the
campaign little, and dwarfish, he appears weak, if one considering
that the activities of Pompey 'command below land and sea power
during the entire eventful year 705 (49) on this single Waffentat
limited and that from the east, where the captain, the Senate, the
second great army, the main fleet , enormous military and financial
aid extended by the opponents of Caesar were united, where it did
not, in those allentscheidenden battle in the West was not intervened.

The dissolved state in the eastern half of the kingdom's armed forces,
the method of the commander, and never otherwise than by superior
masses to operate its burdensome and Weitschichtigkeit and the
coalition Zerfahrenheit perhaps the inaction of the country power
not apologize, but reasonably explain but that the fleet, but without
rival dominated the Mediterranean Sea, it did nothing to determine
course of action to help, not for Spain, as good as nothing for the
faithful Massalioten, nothing, to Sardinia, Sicily, Africa defend
and Italy where not to occupy, but at least him off the supply -
which makes our ideas of the ruling camp Pompeianischen confusion
and Verkehrte claims, which we are finding it hard to meet the
assets.

The overall result of this campaign was accordingly. Caesar's double offensive
against Spain and against Sicily and Africa was there completely, here at
least partially succeeded, while Pompey grew 'plan, Italy auszuhungern
by the removal of Sicily in the main, his general campaign plan by
the destruction of the Spanish army completely frustrated, and in
Italy were Caesar's defense establishments only the smallest part
has come to use.

Despite the sensitive losses in Africa, and Illyria but Caesar went
in the most determined and decisive manner in this first year as a
war winner.

If, however, from the east of nothing essential happened to Caesar
in the subjugation of the West to stop, so it worked but at least
there in the period gained so shamefully out politically and
militarily to consolidate.

The large gathering of opponents of Caesar was Makedonien. There came
to Pompey himself and the mass of emigrants brundisinischen; there,
the remaining refugees from the West: Marcus Cato from Sicily, Lucius
Massalia of Domitian, notably from Spain but a lot of the best officers
and soldiers dissolved the army, at the head of their commander
Afranius and Varro.

In Italy, was the emigration of the aristocracy gradually not just
honor, but most fashion thing, and she received a new impetus by
the unfavorable news about the situation before Caesar arrived
Ilerda; by the laueren party members and political Achseltraegern
came after not few, and even Cicero, Marcus finally convinced
themselves that it is his civic duty is not sufficient enough, if
he has a treatise on harmony write.

The emigrants in Thessalon Senate, where the official Rome its interim
headquarters aufschlug counted against 200 members, including some
old hochbejahrte and almost all CONSULAR.

But admittedly, there were emigrants.

Again this Roman Koblenz, the high demands and poor performance of
the genteel world of Rome, their reminiscences and untimely untimely
Rekriminationen their political and financial embarrassment Verkehrte
in a pathetic way to the show.

It was the least that, while the old building zusammensank, with the most
embarrassing importance of every ancient scrolls and rust stain in the
Constitution took care: at the end it was just ridiculous, if the lord
Gewissensskrupel made, outside the hallowed ground their urban Ratversammlung
Senate to carefully read and the "Three Hundred" dubbed ^ 4, or if one
large state-legal investigations in place, whether and how Kuriatgesetz
by law elsewhere can bring in a Roman wall. Far worse was the indifferent
Lauen and the doggedness of the narrow Ultras.

Those were not to take action to bring, or even silenced. Were they asked
in a certain way for the best overall business environment, so they
considered, with the weak people own inconsistency, any such suggestion
as a malicious attempt, they still continue to compromise and did not
kneel or half-hearted . But of course they were late with their better
knowledge and its impossible superklugen actors stocks for the load, her
day's work was to every small and large process bekritteln to sneer at
and beseufzen and by its own inertia and hopelessness abzuspannen
the crowd and to discourage .

If the atoms of the weakness to look, so standing on the other hand, the
hypertension in the Ultras in full bloom. Here, it is no secret that
the precondition for any peace negotiations, the head of Caesar sent
was: any peace attempts, the Caesar is still wiederholentlich made
ward regardless of the hand or punished only be used to insidiously,
the officer of the opponent according to the life.

That the proclaimed Caesarianer together and particularly life and property
were forfeited, understand themselves, but also the more or less
neutral country was little better.

Lucius Domitian, the hero of Corfinium made in the war all seriousness
the proposal that those senators who in the army of Pompey ment
under were about all that either remained neutral or even emigrated,
but not in the army have had put to the vote and individually
depending on the releasing or being with a fine or even with the
loss of life and property to punish.

Another raised in this Ultras Lucius Afranius against Pompey because
of his poor defense of Spain a formal indictment on bribery and
treason.

These dyed in the wool Republicans increased their political theory,
the character of an almost religious faith in it because even the
hated laueren Party comrades and the Pompey with his personal Annex
perhaps even more revealing than the opponent, and is compatible
with the stupidity of hate, how they Orthodox theologians to be
self-maintaining, they are much indebted to numerous special and
bitter feuds, which the army and the emigrant emigrants Senate torn.

But they did it not with words. Bibulus Marcus, Titus and other Labienus
this Koterie led their theory in practice by and let what they of Caesar's
army officers or soldiers in the hands came down, in summary
executions, which understandably is not just Caesar's troops led
by lower-energy fight.

If during Caesar's absence from Italy, the counter-revolution in favor
of the Constitution friends, to which all elements were available, but
daselbst not broke, it was after the insurance insightful Caesar's opponents,
mostly in the cause of general concern to the indomitable fury of the
Republican ultras after successful restoration. The Pompeianischen better
in the camps were in despair over this drift racing.

Pompey, himself a valiant soldier who spared, so far as he could
and could, the prisoners, but he was too schwachmuetig and in a
position to be leaning to how he as Oberfeld zukam Lord, all the
horrors of this type to inhibit or even punish.

Vigorously tried the only man, at least with the moral stance in the
fight occurred, Marcus Cato, the drift control, he obtained that
the emigrants Senate by a separate decree forbade it, untertaenige
cities to loot and a citizen otherwise than in the battle kill. Just
thought the talented Marcus Marcellus. Of course nobody knew it better
than Cato and Marcellus that the extreme party, saving deeds if necessary
Senatsbeschluessen Despite all unfold. If, however, already now, when
we still had to watch Klugheitsruecksichten, the anger of the ultras
did not tame, so I would love to get to the victories in a reign of terror
that lie in wait, of Marius and Sulla himself would have turned away
shuddering, and one realizes that Cato, according to his own
confession, even more than before the defeat, victory dawned before
his own party. ------------------------- ---------------- ^ 4 Since
the formal law "legal Ratversammlung" undoubtedly just like the
"law court" only in the city itself or within the spell of miles
could take place, then called the in the African army in the Senate
Assembly representing the "Three Hundred" (Bell.

Afr. 88, 90, App. hist. 2, 95), not because it consisted of 300 members,
but because this is the old standard was the number of senators. It is
believe that this meeting is viewed by Knight reinforced; but if Plutarch
(Cato min. 59, 61) to the Three Hundred Italic Distributors makes,
he has his source (Bell. Afr. 90) misunderstood. Similarly, the quasi
Senate in Thessalon already been ordered. ---------------------------------------
The management of the military preparations in the Macedonian camp
lay in the hands of the Lord Oberfeld Pompey. The always difficult and
pressed the same position had the unfortunate events of the year 705
(49) is even worse. In the eyes of his party comrades which he contributed
significantly to blame.

It was in many ways not fair. A good part of the accident suffered came
at the wrong account and insubordination of the sub-leaders, including
the consul Lentulus and Lucius of Domitian, from the moment Pompey
at the head of the army was taken, he had skillfully and courageously
guided and at least very substantial forces from the shipwreck rescued;
Caesar that he now recognized by all, certainly not superior genius had
grown, he could not reasonably be criticized. However, it decided only
the success. Trusting in the commander Pompey was the Constitution
Party broke with Caesar, and the pernicious consequences of this
fraction fell to the commander Pompey back, and although at the notorious
inability of all other military leaders no attempt was made, the
supreme command to change, it was at least the trust to the Lord
Oberfeld paralyzed.

These aftermath of the defeats suffered were the negative effects
of emigration.

Among the refugees were arriving, however, a number of more efficient
and more capable military officers including the former Spanish
army, the number of those who came to serve and fight, was also
low, as for big fright out of the generals, with the same Fug good
as proconsuls Pompey are emperors and called, and the gentlemen
that are more or less involuntarily on active military service is
involved.

These became the metropolitan way of life in the camp established, not
to the benefit of the army, the tents of these gentlemen were graceful
arcades of the ground with fresh grass dainty covered the walls
with ivy dressed, stood on the table silver tableware and often
revolved there already On bright days of the cups.

These elegant warriors made a strange contrast with Caesar Grasteufeln,
prior to their coarse bread and frightened those in the absence
thereof, also swore and ate roots, tree bark, rather than to chew
drain from enemies.

If, moreover, the inevitable consideration in a collegial and him
personally disinclined authority Pompey in itself in its activity inhibited,
so that embarrassment is increased tremendously when the Senate
emigrants themselves almost at the headquarters is located, and now
everything aufschlug poison of emigration in these Senate meetings
are emptied .

An important personality finally, against all these Verkehrte would
have their own weight can use, there was nowhere.

Pompey himself was to mentally too much to be subordinated and
hesitantly, burdensome and hidden.

Marcus Cato would be at least the necessary moral authority and also had
the good will, to support Pompey, lacks not have Pompeius alone, rather
than ask him for advice, put him with distrustful jealousy and
transferred back to the example of the important command of the
fleet rather to the disabled in every respect Bibulus than Cato.

Thus, if Pompey the political side of his position with his own Verkehrte
treated and which in itself was already spoiled, spoiled after
forces, so, he opposed with commendable zeal in his duty to the
significant, but dissolved the party's military forces to organize.

The core of that formed the troops brought from Italy, which with
the additions from the Illyrian and the prisoner of war in Greece
domiciled together five Roman legions were formed.

Three others came from the East: the two from the rubble of the army of
Crassus formed Syrian and one of the two weak, yet in Cilicia are combined.
The move of these occupying troops was nothing in the way, partly because
the Pompeianer with the Parthians were in agreement, and even an alliance
with them could have been if not reluctant Pompey would have refused,
the requested price: the assignment of his own to Rich placed Syrian
countryside to pay for, sometimes Caesars plan, two legions to send to
Syria and the prisoner held in Rome, Prince Aristobulos the Jews once
again under the guns to bring, partly by other causes, partly by
Aristobulos' death was thwarted .

Next were made in Crete and Macedonia-based soldiers serving one from the
Asia Minor Roman legions two new excavated.

Among all the 2000 volunteers were drawn from the wreckage of the Spanish
heart and other similar crowds Moving emerged, and finally, the
quotas of the subjects.

Like Caesar Pompey had spurned it, by the same infantry to commandeer;
only Kuestenbesatzung were epirotischen, and Thracian aetolischen
militias posses and also of light troops and 3000 Greek Asia Minor
protect slingers and 1200 had been adopted.

The cavalry, on the other hand, there, except one of the young nobility
of Rome educated, more respectable than militarily significant,
and the Nobel Gardelegen of Pompey Mounted Apulian shepherd slaves
made exclusively from the migration of clients and subjects of Rome.

Formed the core of the Celts, some of the crew of Alexandreia, some
of the quotas Deiotarus Koenigs, who despite his age at the head
of his cavalry had appeared in person, and other gala Dynastes them.

They were united, the noble Thracian horsemen, some of their Fuersten
Sadala Rhaskuporis and exciting, in part by Pompey in the Macedonian
province were recruited; kappadokische the cavalry, the king Antiochus
sent by commas genes, Mounted protect the migration of Armenians
from within Taxiles under the Euphrates, from the other side under
the same mega-money and the king Juba numidischen sent droves - the
whole mass rose to 7000 horses.

Very personable finally was Pompeianische fleet. It was formed partly
from the board or Brundisium later Roman-built vehicles, and partly
from the warships of the king of Egypt, the kolchischen Fuersten,
the Cilician Dynastes Tarkondimotos of Cities Tire, Rhodes, Athens,
Corfu and indeed all of Asia and the Greek Seestaaten About 500 and
one sail, which the Roman represented the fifth part.

For cereal and war were in Dyrrhachion huge inventories aufgehaeuft.
The war chest was wohlgefuellt because Pompeianer in the possession of
the principal sources of revenue for the state had the money and the
Klientelfuersten, the respected senators who Steuerpaechter and
all over the entire Roman population and nichtroemischen in their
area made usable for himself.

What is happening in Africa, Egypt, Macedonia, Greece, Asia Minor and
Syria, the reputation of the legitimate government and Pompey
'oftgefeierte Koenigs and Voelkerklientel managed, was to protect
the Roman Republic had been set in motion, if in Italy, the speech
was that Pompey the Geten , Kolcher against Rome and Armenian armed
when he in the camp of the "King of Kings" was called, so this was
hardly an exaggeration to call.

In the same over the whole commanded an army of 7000 cavalry and eleven
legions, of which certainly not more than five as kriegsgewohnt
could be described, and about a fleet of 500 sailing.

The mood of the soldiers, for their meals and Sold Pompey and those cared
enough for the case of victory the exuberant rewards were promised,
was consistently good, and even in some departments even the stalwart
splendidly; however there is a large part of the newly excavated from
army troops, whose formation and Exerzierung how eager they operated
was necessarily time required. The war power ever was impressive, but
somewhat variegated.

The intention of the Lord should Oberfeld until winter 705/06 (49/48) The
army and fleet substantially complete at the coast and in the waters
of Epirus be united. The admiral Bibulus was already with 110 ships
in its new headquarters Kerkyra arrived. By contrast, the Landheer, whose
headquarters during the summer to Berrhoea at Haliakmon was still back,
the mass moved slowly to the great art of street Thessalon after the
West Coast to the future headquarters Dyrrhachion to the two legions which
Metellus Scipio from Syria heranfuehrte, were even at Pergamon in
Asia Minor in the winter quarters and were only at the spring in
Europe is expected.

It just took time.

Were temporarily epirotischen ports except through the fleet only by the
vigilante posses and defended the area.

Thus it was possible Caesar remained, despite falling in between
the Spanish war in Macedonia for the offensive to regain possession,
and he at least is not lined.

He had a long concatenation of war and transport ships in Brundisium ordered
and after the capitulation of the Spanish army and the fall of Massalia
there used nuclear forces for the most part ebendahin conducted. The
effort is unprecedented, so the soldiers of Caesar reasonably have
been cleared over the battle lines, and the mutiny of one of the
four oldest legions, the ninth in its Durchmarsch by Placentia was
a dangerous sign of the army tearing mood; but Caesar's mind, and
personal authority of Lord, and from this side of nothing in the
way embarkation.

Solo which already in March 705 (49) the pursuit of Pompey had failed,
the lack of ships, also threatened to thwart the expedition. The warships,
which Caesar in Gaul, sizilischen Italic and harbors to be built
had ordered, were not yet ready or not for the agency, his squadron in
the Adriatic was the year before at Curicta have been destroyed, he
found at Brundisium not more than twelve warships and hardly enough
vehicles to the third part of his army to Greece certain of twelve
legions, and 10000 riders at once ueberzufuehren.
Then he came suddenly back, with a final appeal to
March: "Should you--do you think I ought to see Stoller, and--and tell
him I don't think I used him fairly?"

"You ought to know--" March began.

But before he could say more, Burnamy said, "You're right," and was off
again.

"Oh, how hard you were with him, my dear!" Mrs. March lamented.

"I wish," he said, "if our boy ever went wrong that some one would be as
true to him as I was to that poor fellow. He condemned himself; and he
was right; he has behaved very badly."

"You always overdo things so, when you act righteously!"

"Now, Isabel!"

"Oh, yes, I know what you will say. But I should have tempered justice
with mercy."

Her nerves tingled with pity for Burnamy, but in her heart she was glad
that her husband had had strength to side with him against himself, and
she was proud of the forbearance with which he had done it. In their
earlier married life she would have confidently taken the initiative on
all moral questions. She still believed that she was better fitted for
their decision by her Puritan tradition and her New England birth, but
once in a great crisis when it seemed a question of their living, she had
weakened before it, and he, with no such advantages, had somehow met the
issue with courage and conscience. She could not believe he did so by
inspiration, but she had since let him take the brunt of all such issues
and the responsibility. He made no reply, and she said: "I suppose you'll
admit now there was always something peculiar in the poor boy's manner to
Stoller."

He would confess no more than that there ought to have been. "I don't see
how he could stagger through with that load on his conscience. I'm not
sure I like his being able to do so."

She was silent in the misgiving which she shared with him, but she said:
"I wonder how far it has gone with him and Miss Triscoe?"

"Well, from his wanting you to give his message to the general in the
plural--"

"Don't laugh! It's wicked to laugh! It's heartless!" she cried,
hysterically. "What will he do, poor fellow?"

"I've an idea that he will light on his feet, somehow. But, at any rate,
he's doing the right thing in going to own up to Stoller."

"Oh, Stoller! I care nothing for Stoller! Don't speak to me of Stoller!"

Burnamy fond the Bird of Prey, as he no longer had the heart to call him,
walking up and down in his room like an eagle caught in a trap. He
erected his crest fiercely enough, though, when the young fellow came in
at his loudly shouted, "Herein!"

"What do you want?" he demanded, brutally.

This simplified Burnamy's task, while it made it more loathsome. He
answered not much less brutally, "I want to tell you that I think I used
you badly, that I let you betray yourself, that I feel myself to blame."
He could have added, "Curse you!" without change of tone.

Stoller sneered in a derision that showed his lower teeth like a dog's
when he snarls. "You want to get back!"

"No," said Burnamy, mildly, and with increasing sadness as he spoke. "I
don't want to get back. Nothing would induce me. I'm going away on the
first train."

"Well, you're not!" shouted Stoller. "You've lied me into this--"

"Look out!" Burnamy turned white.

"Didn't you lie me into it, if you let me fool myself, as you say?"
Stoller pursued, and Burnamy felt himself weaken through his wrath.
"Well, then, you got to lie me out of it. I been going over the damn
thing, all night--and you can do it for me. I know you can do it," he
gave way in a plea that was almost a whimper. "Look here! You see if you
can't. I'll make it all right with you. I'll pay you whatever you think
is right--whatever you say."

"Oh!" said Burnamy, in otherwise unutterable disgust.

"You kin," Stoller went on, breaking down more and more into his adopted
Hoosier, in the stress of his anxiety. "I know you kin, Mr. Burnamy." He
pushed the paper containing his letter into Burnamy's hands, and pointed
out a succession of marked passages. "There! And here! And this place!
Don't you see how you could make out that it meant something else, or was
just ironical?" He went on to prove how the text might be given the
complexion he wished, and Burnamy saw that he had really thought it not
impossibly out. "I can't put it in writing as well as you; but I've done
all the work, and all you've got to do is to give it some of them turns
of yours. I'll cable the fellows in our office to say I've been
misrepresented, and that my correction is coming. We'll get it into shape
here together, and then I'll cable that. I don't care for the money. And
I'll get our counting-room to see this scoundrel"--he picked up the paper
that had had fun with him--"and fix him all right, so that he'll ask for
a suspension of public opinion, and--You see, don't you?"

The thing did appeal to Burnamy. If it could be done, it would enable him
to make Stoller the reparation he longed to make him more than anything
else in the world. But he heard himself saying, very gently, almost
tenderly, "It might be done, Mr. Stoller. But I couldn't do it. It
wouldn't be honest--for me."

"Yah!" yelled Stoller, and he crushed the paper into a wad and flung it
into Burnamy's face. "Honest, you damn humbug! You let me in for this,
when you knew I didn't mean it, and now you won't help me out because it
a'n't honest! Get out of my room, and get out quick before I--"

He hurled himself toward Burnamy, who straightened himself, with "If you
dare!" He knew that he was right in refusing; but he knew that Stoller
was right, too, and that he had not meant the logic of what he had said
in his letter, and of what Burnamy had let him imply. He braved Stoller's
onset, and he left his presence untouched, but feeling as little a moral
hero as he well could.


XXXVIII.

General Triscoe woke in the bad humor of an elderly man after a day's
pleasure, and in the self-reproach of a pessimist who has lost his point
of view for a time, and has to work back to it. He began at the belated
breakfast with his daughter when she said, after kissing him gayly, in
the small two-seated bower where they breakfasted at their hotel when
they did not go to the Posthof, "Didn't you have a nice time, yesterday,
papa?"

She sank into the chair opposite, and beamed at him across the little
iron table, as she lifted the pot to pour out his coffee.

"What do you call a nice time?" he temporized, not quite able to resist
her gayety.

"Well, the kind of time I had."

"Did you get rheumatism from sitting on the grass? I took cold in that
old church, and the tea at that restaurant must have been brewed in a
brass kettle. I suffered all night from it. And that ass from Illinois--"

"Oh, poor papa! I couldn't go with Mr. Stoller alone, but I might have
gone in the two-spanner with him and let you have Mr. or Mrs. March in
the one-spanner."

"I don't know. Their interest in each other isn't so interesting to other
people as they seem to think."

"Do you feel that way really, papa? Don't you like their being so much in
love still?"

"At their time of life? Thank you it's bad enough in young people."

Finally grazed in the border area between the lands of the Juba and the
Bocchus nor the last of the Catilinarier, that Publius Sittius
from Nuceria, eighteen years earlier from a bankrupt businessman
Italic in a Mauritanian Freischarenfuehrer transforms and since the
Libyan handle is a name and a Heergefolge had created.

Bocchus and Sittius were united in the numidische country, occupied the
important city Cirta, and their attack and the Gaetuler urged the king
Juba, a part of its troops to its southern and western boundary
to send.

Meanwhile, Caesar's situation was uncomfortable enough. His army was in the
space of a square mile zusammengedraengt, although the grain fleet
herbeischaffte, but so was the lack of Fourage of Caesar's cavalry
just felt like before Dyrrhachion from those of Pompey.

The light troops of the enemy remained, despite all the efforts of Caesar,
the so immeasurably his superior, that it seemed almost impossible, the
offensive into the landlocked country inside with veterans carry.

When Scipio retreat and Disclosure Kuestenstaedte so he could perhaps
erfechten as a victory for those who Orodes the vizier about Crassus,
Juba on Curio had worn them, but at least the war to move beyond
endless.

This campaign plan was the simplest idea: Cato himself, though nothing
less than a strategist, and advised to be offered simultaneously with a
corps to Italy ueberzufahren and the Republicans in the call to arms,
which is the thorough confusion daselbst do well to succeed could. Solo
Cato could only advise, not command, the Commander in Chief Scipio
decided that the war in Kuestenlandschaft to be conducted.

It was not just wrong in so far as to enable a secure success promised
war plan could proceed, but also because the landscape in which the war
moved into safer fermentation, and the army, which is presented against
Caesar, for the good part was also difficult.

The digging awfully tough to Wegschleppung in inventories, the devastation
of the smaller towns, all about the feeling of a house from outside and
have already lost aufgeopfert thing to be the indigenous population
had bitterly against the African soil on their last desperate
struggle struggling Roman Republicans, and the terrorist practices
of the latter against even the indifferent suspicious communities
had these terrible bitterness to hatred increased.

The African cities explains where they dare some could be for Caesar,
among Gaetulern and the Libyans, the light troops, and even in the
legions, served in quantity, tore the desertion On.

Meanwhile Scipio insisted with all the foolishness on his own tenacity
plan that went with a whole army of Utica her power before the
Caesar occupied cities and small Ruspina Leptis, which Hadrumetum
occupied north, south Thapsus (on the promontory of Ras Dimas) with
strong crews, and offered in association with Juba, with all its
not by the border defense forces utilized in the same case before
Ruspina appeared repeatedly at the enemy in battle.

But Caesar was determined, his veteran legions to be expected. When
they then gradually arrived and the battle appeared lost Scipio
and Juba, the lust, a battle field to dare, and Caesar had no means to
them in their extraordinary superiority of light cavalry to such
a force.

About marches and skirmishes in the vicinity of Ruspina and Thapsus, mainly
to the discovery of the basement hiding landueblichen (silos) and to spread
the items moved, verflossen almost two months. Caesar, by riders
forced the enemy, as far as possible to the heights, or even to
keep his flanks by entrenched lines to cover, but habituated during
this laborious and fruitless Kriegfuehrung gradually his soldiers
to fight the strange way.

Friend and foe acknowledged in the cautious fencing masters, of his
people carefully and often personally einschulte, the rapid commander
and were not mistaken in this almost in hesitation as in the Extras
is consistent championship.

Finally turned Caesar, after his last reinforcements had to be pulled to
the side against Thapsus.

Scipio had this town, as I said, very busy and thus the error of his
opponents an easy-to-object-making attack darzubieten; to the first, he
soon added the second, still less pardonable add the desired Caesar and
Scipio right so far refused Battlefield now to save on a terrain
Thapsus to deliver the decision in the hands of the infantry line
was.

Immediately on the beach, camp in front of Caesar, and Scipio were Jubas
legions to the front lines ready for battle, the rear employs an
entrenched camp beat at the same time prepared the crew of a failure
Thapsus before.

The latter rejected enough Caesars camp guards.

Kriegsgewohnten His legions, even after the establishment of unsafe and
closed the bad links in the enemy properly assessed, forced, while still
over there and before geschanzt was still the captain gave the sign, a
trumpet player, to attack to blow , and went across the line, especially
Caesar himself, who, as he with him without his command had seen springing
up, at their head to the enemy eingaloppierte. The right wing, the
other divisions advanced, flushed against him over the line following
the elephants - it was the last big battle in which the beasts
have been used - by Slingshot bullets and arrows back to their own
people.

The coverage team was niedergehauen, the left wing of the enemy and blow
up the entire line up.

The defeat was so devastating, as the new camp of the beaten army is
not yet finished and the old one removed was considerable, both were
one after another almost without opposition conquered. The mass
of the beaten army threw away their arms and begged for quarters,
but Caesar's soldiers were no longer the same as before the battle
Ilerda will be included in the Pharsalos defenseless honorably had
spared.

The habit of the Civil War and the backwardness of the mutiny Groll
made on the battlefield of Thapsus in terrible manner claimed. When the
Hydra, you fight with the always new talent heads when the army from
Italy to Spain, from Spain to Macedonia, from Macedonia to Africa was
hurled, the ever-hotter-awaited peace was not always so sought and
not entirely without cause, the soldier in which the basic Caesars
untimely clemency.

He had vowed to be completed, what the captain failed, and remained deaf
to the pleas of fellow citizens disarmed as for the commands of
Caesar, and the higher officers.

Fuenfzigtausend The corpses of the battlefield of Thapsus covered,
including several as a secret opponent of the new monarchy known
and therefore take this opportunity of their own people down homemade
Caesar officers who showed how the soldier is resting creates.

The victorious army opposed that does not count more than fifty deaths
(April 6 708 46). A continuation of the fight took place after the
Battle of Thapsus so much in Africa as one and a half years previously
in the East after the defeat Pharsalischen. Cato of Utica as commander
summoned the Senate, presented the state of defense, and it was
gathered on the decision of whether to submit or to the last man
to defend himself would, only they incantatory, not everyone is for
himself, but all for a to decide and act.

The opinion took some courageous representatives, it was requested that the
weapons-slaves of State for releasing, but Cato as an unlawful
interference with private property and rejected instead a patriotic
call to the Sklaveneigentuemer suggested.

Solo soon passed largely from African Distributors existing Assembly
this burst of determination, and it was agreed to capitulate. When Faustus
Sulla, the regent's son, and Lucius Afranius with a strong cavalry
division from the battlefield arrived here in Utica, Cato made
another attempt by the city to keep their own claim, they first and
foremost the unreliable residents of Utica total down to to leave,
he unwillingly back and prefer to let the last castle of the
Republicans to the monarch without resistance into the hands, as
the last of the Republic Atemzuege by such a profane slaughter.

After he, partly by his authority, partly through generous donations,
the fury of the soldiers against the unfortunate Uticenser under
controlled property and, if it was in his power, those who are
Caesar's grace is not liked to entrust the funds to flee, those who
wanted to stay, the opportunity, preferably under conditions of
fair level to capitulate with touching care grants and are quite
convinced that he had no further assistance to capacity, he is
relieved of his command, withdrew to his bedchamber and pushed back
the sword in the chest.

Also from the other riders escaped rescued just a few.

The Thapsus fled the riders were met with throngs of Sittius and they
were niedergehauen or captured, and their leader Faustus Afranius
and were delivered to Caesar, and, since that they did not immediately
executed, with veterans in a casserole slain. The Oberfeld Mr. Metellus
Scipio fell with the fleet of the beaten party in the violence of the
cruiser of Sittius and pierced themselves, since one hand it wanted to
create.

King Juba, not unprepared for such an outcome, for this case had
decided to question how he kinglike eyes, and the market town of Zama
an enormous pyre equip leave with his body and all its treasures,
and the corpses of entire residents of Zama should eat.

Only the city dwellers felt no desire, at the funeral ceremony of the
African Sardanapal used as decoration and to the king concluded,
as he fled from the battlefield, accompanied by Marcus Petreius
appeared before the town, the gates .

The king, in one of those bright and high-life benefit feral natures,
also from the death of a frenzy to prepare feast, went with his
crew after one of his Landhaeuser, had a big feast and invited
applied after the meal ended post Petreius to work with him in
Zweikampf to fight to the death.

It was the Defeat Catilinas of him by the hand of the king received,
the king had it from one of his slaves to pierce.

The few distinguished men who escaped, as Labienus and Sextus Pompey,
followed the elder brother of the latter to Spain and studied, like
Sertorius, in the mountains and waters that are still half a last
independent landscapes robbers and pirates asylum.

Without resistance Caesar ordered the African ratio. As Curio had
requested, was the kingdom of Massinissa dissolved. The eastern part
of the landscape or Sitifis ward with the kingdom of King Bocchus
of Ostmauretanien united, well Faithful Koenig Tingis Bogud of
considerable gifts with care.

Cirta (Constantine) and the surrounding lands that were previously
under Jubas sovereignty, the prince and his son Massinissa obsessed
Arabion had received Condotti Publius Sittius to his halbroemischen
droves daselbst displaced ^ 10, but this was all about, and District
of far the largest and most fertile part of the former empire
Numidischen as "Neuafrika" with the older province of Africa to
unite and defend the Kuestenlandschaft against the tail end of the
desert tribes, which the Republic with a clientele Koenig had left
over from the new rulers of the kingdom itself. --
--------------------------------------------- ^ 10 The inscriptions
of the designated area preserve numerous traces of this colonization.

The name of Sitti there is extremely frequent, the African village leads
Milev as the name Roman colonia Sarnensis (CIL VIII, p. 1094), apparently
from the river nucerinischen God Sarnus (Suet. rhet. 4). -------
--------------------------------------- The fight, the Republicans and
Pompey against Caesar's monarchy had made, after four ends
with the complete permanent victory for the new monarch. Although the
monarchy was not only on the battlefields of Pharsalos and Thapsus
found, they could already be dated from the moment when Caesar and
Pompey in the league overall domination was justified and that the
former aristocratic constitution on the pile had thrown.

But it was only the baptism of blood of the 9th August 706 (48) and the
6th April 708 (46), the essence of the exclusive rule conflicting overall
Regiment destroyed and the new monarchy, and stock awarded formal
recognition.

Praetendenteninsurrektionen and Republican conspiracies liked to follow
and new shocks, maybe even new revolutions and restorations cause,
but the half a millennium during uninterrupted continuity of the
free Republic was PROTRŽENÁ and throughout the wide extent of the
Roman Empire by the legitimacy of the accomplished fact, the monarchy
founded.

The constitutional struggle was ended, and that he was finished,
the voice of Marcus Cato when he was in Utica to the sword falls.

For many years he was active in the struggle against the legitimate
Republic of pestering their Vormann been, he had it continued, long after
all hope to win in him was extinguished. But now was the fight itself
has become impossible, and the Republic, which Marcus Brutus had
founded, was dead, never again to life, what should the Republicans are
still on the earth? The treasure was stolen, so the sign off guard, who
could scold them if they heimging? There is more nobility, and above all
in mind Cato death than in his life had been. Cato was nothing less than
a great man, but at all those short-sighted, that wrong, and that
those arid dullness wrong phrases which, for its like for all the time,
the ideal of mindless Republikanertums and favorite playing all the
individuals have stamped He was still the only one of the great, the
sinking derelict in his agony system honestly and courageously represented.
Therefore, because of the simple truth is wisest Lueger inwardly
feels zernichtet and because all sovereignty and glory of human nature
is not ultimately based on the wisdom, but on the honesty, that's why
Cato has a larger role in history than many in his mind far superior
men .
"No, we certainly don't," he assented, with such a well-studied effect of
yielding to superior logic that Mrs. Adding screamed for joy.

The boy had stolen out of the room, and he said, "I hope Rose isn't
acting on my suggestion?"

"I hate to have you tease him, dearest," his wife interposed.

"Oh, no," the mother said, laughing still, but with a note of tenderness
in her laugh, which dropped at last to a sigh. "He's too much afraid of
lese-majesty, for that. But I dare say he couldn't stand the sight. He's
queer."

"He's beautiful!" said Mrs. March.

"He's good," the mother admitted. "As good as the day's long. He's never
given me a moment's trouble--but he troubles me. If you can understand!"

"Oh, I do understand!" Mrs. March returned. "By his innocence, you mean.
That is the worst of children. Their innocence breaks our hearts and
makes us feel ourselves such dreadful old things."

"His innocence, yes," pursued Mrs. Adding, "and his ideals." She began to
laugh again. "He may have gone off for a season of meditation and prayer
over the misbehavior of these bicyclers. His mind is turning that way a
good deal lately. It's only fair to tell you, Mr. March, that he seems to
be giving up his notion of being an editor. You mustn't be disappointed."

"I shall be sorry," said the editor. "But now that you mention it, I
think I have noticed that Rose seems rather more indifferent to
periodical literature. I supposed he might simply have exhausted his
questions--or my answers."

"No; it goes deeper than that. I think it's Europe that's turned his mind
in the direction of reform. At any rate he thinks now he will be a
reformer."

"Really! What kind of one? Not religious, I hope?"

"No. His reform has a religious basis, but its objects are social. I
don't make it out, exactly; but I shall, as soon as Rose does. He tells
me everything, and sometimes I don't feel equal to it, spiritually or
even intellectually."

"Don't laugh at him, Mrs. Adding!" Mrs. March entreated.

"Oh, he doesn't mind my laughing," said the mother, gayly. Rose came
shyly back into the room, and she said, "Well, did you rebuke those bad
bicyclers?" and she laughed again.

"They're only a custom, too, Rose,", said March, tenderly. "Like the man
resting while the women worked, and the Emperor, and all the rest of it."

"Oh, yes, I know," the boy returned.

"They ride modern machines, but they live in the tenth century. That's
what we're always forgetting when we come to Europe and see these
barbarians enjoying all our up-to-date improvements."

"There, doesn't that console you?" asked his mother, and she took him away
with her, laughing back from the door. "I don't believe it does, a bit!"

"I don't believe she understands the child," said Mrs. March. "She is
very light, don't you think? I don't know, after all, whether it wouldn't
be a good thing for her to marry Kenby. She is very easygoing, and she
will be sure to marry somebody."

She had fallen into a tone of musing censure, and he said, "You might put
these ideas to her."


XL.

With the passage of the days and weeks, the strange faces which had
familiarized themselves at the springs disappeared; even some of those
which had become the faces of acquaintance began to go. In the
diminishing crowd the smile of Otterson was no longer to be seen; the
sad, severe visage of Major Eltwin, who seemed never to have quite got
his bearings after his error with General Triscoe, seldom showed itself.
The Triscoes themselves kept out of the Marches' way, or they fancied so;
Mrs. Adding and Rose alone remained of their daily encounter.

It was full summer, as it is everywhere in mid-August, but at Carlsbad
the sun was so late getting up over the hills that as people went to
their breakfasts at the cafes up the valley of the Tepl they found him
looking very obliquely into it at eight o'clock in the morning. The
yellow leaves were thicker about the feet of the trees, and the grass was
silvery gray with the belated dews. The breakfasters were fewer than they
had been, and there were more little barefooted boys and girls with cups
of red raspberries which they offered to the passers with cries of
"Himbeeren! Himbeeren!" plaintive as the notes of birds left songless by
the receding summer.

March was forbidden the fruit, but his wife and Mrs. Adding bought
recklessly of it, and ate it under his eyes with their coffee and bread,
pouring over it pots of clotted cream that the 'schone' Lili brought
them. Rose pretended an indifference to it, which his mother betrayed was
a sacrifice in behalf of March's inability.

Lili's delays in coming to be paid had been such that the Marches now
tried to pay her when she brought their breakfast, but they sometimes
forgot, and then they caught her whenever she came near them. In this
event she liked to coquet with their impatience; she would lean against
their table, and say: "Oh, no. You stay a little. It is so nice." One day
after such an entreaty, she said, "The queen is here, this morning."

Mrs. March started, in the hope of highhotes. "The queen!"

"Yes; the young lady. Mr. Burnamy was saying she was a queen. She is
there with her father." She nodded in the direction of a distant corner,
and the Marches knew that she meant Miss Triscoe and the general. "She is
not seeming so gayly as she was being."

March smiled. "We are none of us so gayly as we were being, Lili. The
summer is going."

"But Mr. Burnamy will be returning, not true?" the girl asked, resting
her tray on the corner of the table.

"No, I'm afraid he won't," March returned sadly.

"He was very good. He was paying the proprietor for the dishes that
Augusta did break when she was falling down. He was paying before he went
away, when he was knowing that the proprietor would make Augusta to pay."

"Ah!" said March, and his wife said, "That was like him!" and she eagerly
explained to Mrs. Adding how good and great Burnamy had been in this
characteristic instance, while Lili waited with the tray to add some
pathetic facts about Augusta's poverty and gratitude. "I think Miss
Triscoe ought to know it. There goes the wretch, now!" she broke off.
"Don't look at him!" She set her husband the example of averting his face
from the sight of Stoller sullenly pacing up the middle aisle of the
grove, and looking to the right and left for a vacant table. "Ugh! I hope
he won't be able to find a single place."

Mrs. Adding gave one of her pealing laughs, while Rose watched March's
face with grave sympathy. "He certainly doesn't deserve one. Don't let us
keep you from offering Miss Triscoe any consolation you can." They got
up, and the boy gathered up the gloves, umbrella, and handkerchief which
the ladies let drop from their laps.

"Have you been telling?" March asked his wife.

"Have I told you anything?" she demanded of Mrs. Adding in turn.
"Anything that you didn't as good as know, already?"

"Not a syllable!" Mrs. Adding replied in high delight. "Come, Rose!"

"Well, I suppose there's no use saying anything," said March, after she
left them.

"She had guessed everything, without my telling her," said his wife.

"About Stoller?"

"Well-no. I did tell her that part, but that was nothing. It was about
Burnamy and Agatha that she knew. She saw it from the first."

"I should have thought she would have enough to do to look after poor old
Kenby."

"I'm not sure, after all, that she cares for him. If she doesn't, she
oughtn't to let him write to her. Aren't you going over to speak to the
Triscoes?"

"No, certainly not. I'm going back to the hotel. There ought to be some
steamer letters this morning. Here we are, worrying about these strangers
all the time, and we never give a thought to our own children on the
other side of the ocean."

"I worry about them, too," said the mother, fondly. "Though there is
nothing to worry about," she added.

This glove repeal of the Roman captain had neither reason nor desire,
his purpose, partly to rekognoszieren, partly by a train on the
Rhine the Germans perhaps, but at least the Celts and the fellow
countrymen at home to impress, was essentially achieved after
achtzehntaegigem linger on right bank of the Rhine, he met again
in Gaul, and broke the Rheinbruecke from behind (699 55).

There remained the island Celts. At the close connection between them and
the Celts of the mainland, including the Seegauen, it is understandable
that they at least the national resistance and its sympathies had participated
and the Patriots even if not armed assistance, but at least each of
them, for the the home was no longer safe on their island meerbeschuetzten
an honorable Freistatt granted. A danger here, however, was, if not for
the present, but for the future, it seemed appropriate, if not the conquest
of the island to themselves, but also on the defensive to the offensive
and lead by a landing on the coast to show the islanders that the
arm of the Roemer also on the channel range.

The first Roman officer who entered the Brittany, Publius Crassus was
then referred to the "Zinninseln" at the western tip of England
(Scillyinseln) hinuebergefahren (697 57) in the summer of 699 (55)
was Caesar himself, with only two legions there, where he is at the
narrowest ^ 17, over the canal.

He found the coast with masses of enemy troops and covered with his
ships sailed on, but the British chariot moved as fast as the country
continued the Roman galleys to the sea, and only with great effort
succeeded the Roman soldiers under the protection of warships, by
throwing machines and Handgeschuetze swept the beach, in the face
of enemies, sometimes wading, sometimes barges into the bank to win.

In the first fright submitted to the next village, only the islanders
were soon aware of how weak the enemy is and how he has not ventured
far from shore to remove.

The natives disappeared into the landlocked country and only came
back to the camp to threaten, but the fleet that is available on
the open roadstead had left, suffered by the first storm befall
them on the very significant wind damage.

You had to lucky, the attacks of the barbarians off until the ships had
emergency repairs, and with the same, even before the bad season
hereinbrach the Gallic coast wiederzuerreichen. --------------
----------------------------- ^ That Caesars About 17 trips to Britain
from the ports of the coast from Calais to Boulogne on the coast of Kent
received, gives the nature of things and Caesar's express indication.
The precise determination of the location has often been tried
but not succeeded. Survived is that when the first ride in one infantry,
the cavalry in another, from that 8 milia in an easterly direction to
the remote port einschiffte (Gall. 4, 22, 23, 28) and that the
second trip from one from these two ports, the most convenient place
Caesar, the (otherwise not mentioned) Irish, from the British coast
and 30 (according to Caesar's manuscripts 5, 2) or 40 (= 320 stadiums,
according Strabe. 4, 5, 2, the undoubtedly drew from Caesar) milia
abging away.

From Caesar's words (Gall. 4, 21) that he had "the shortest crossing" chose
verstaendigerweise you can probably conclude that he does not pass
through the canal, but by the Pas de Calais, but not that he had
this to mathematically shortest line went.

It belongs to the inspiration of faith to Lokaltopographen to deal
with such data in hand, from which the best in themselves nor by
fluctuations in the number of overnight delivery is almost useless
in determining the location to go, but want among the many possibilities
for the most to have that the Irish port (already Strabe. cited
above probably correct with that identified by the first ride in
the infantry transferred) at Ambleteuse, west of Cap Gris Nez, the
rider pile at ECAL (Wissant), east promontory of the same, to look
for, but the landing east of Dover held at Walmercastle.
-------------------------------- ----------- Caesar himself was on
the results of this reckless and with inadequate resources expedition
undertaken so dissatisfied that he immediately (Winter 699/700
55/54) a transport fleet of 800 sails repaired and left in Spring
700 (54), this time with five legions and 2000 cavalry, for the
second time after the kentischen coast was under sail.

Before the most formidable armada again gathered on the shores of the
British army, without a struggle to dare; Caesar immediately joined the
march into the inland country and exceeded some lucky battles after
the River Stour, he alone had much against his will pause, because the
fleet on the roads open again by the storms of the channel was half-destroyed.
Until the vessels of the beach and pulled for the extensive repairs made,
received a precious time lost, which the Celts used wisely. The brave
and prudent Fuerst Cassivellaunus, in today's Middlesex and the
surrounding bid, otherwise the shock of the Celts south of the Thames but
now Hort and Vorfechter the whole nation, was at the forefront of the
national defense force.

He soon saw that with the Celtic folk foot against the Roman poor,
but no difference and are difficult to feed and hard to ruling the
land mass of the Storm defense was only a hindrance, so he dismissed
them and kept only the chariot, whose 4000 he brought together and
their Kaempfer , practiced from the trolley herabspringend to fight
on foot, like the cavalry of the oldest citizens in Rome zwiefacher
way could be used.

When Caesar the march was again able to continue, he relocated to the
same anywhere, but the British chariots were always vorauf the Roman
army and to the side, caused the evacuation of the country, with the
lack of big cities no difficulty making prevented any Detachierung and
threatened the communications.

The Thames was - as it seems between Kingston and Brentford above
London - from the Romans exceeded man came forward, but not actually
on, the captain erfocht not win, the soldier did not loot, and the only
real result was the subjugation of the Trinobanten Essex today, was less
the result of fear of the Romans as the deep Verfeindung this with Gaus
Cassivellaunus. With each step forward, the danger and the attack, which
the Prince of Kent after Cassivellaunus' arrangement on the Roman ship
made camp, warned, although he was knocked off, but urged to
reverse.

The storming of a large British Verhacks in which a lot of cattle, the
Romans fell into the hands, were targeted for the encroachment of a
fair conclusion, and a tolerable excuse for the reversal. Also
Cassivellaunus was insightful enough, the enemy is not dangerous to drive
on the extreme, and promised, as Caesar demanded that Trinobanten not to
worry, to pay taxes and to make hostages; of delivery of weapons
or abandonment of a Roman occupation was not the speech, and even
those promises were probably as far as they concern the future,
neither, nor seriously taken.

After receiving the hostages, Caesar returned to the warehouse and ship
from there back into Gaul.

If he, as it seems, however, had hoped, this time to conquer Britain,
so this plan was part of the defense system of the intelligent
Cassivellaunus, partly and especially on the impracticality of the Italian
fleet of rowing on the waters of the North Sea have failed completely,
because the conditioned Tribute was never shot, is certain. The next
end but the island of the Celts from their defiant shake up security
and to make their own interest in their islands for the stove no longer
the continental emigration missions, however, seems to have been
achieved, at least be similar complaints about the protection awarded
later not heard back.

The work of the refusal of the German invasion and subjugation of the
continental Celts was completed. But often it is easier, a free nation
to subdue a subject in Botmaessigkeit to obtain. The rivalry for the
hegemony, at the even more than the attacks on Rome, based on the
Celtic nation had gone, was conquered by a sense repealed by the
hegemony of the conquerors themselves adopted.

The special interests are silent, in the joint but you can feel
pressure again as a people, and what you, as it had, had indifferent
playful, freedom and nationality, which was of infinite value now
because it was too late, by the infinite yearning completely
discretionary.

But was it too late? With angry man confessed shame is that a nation that
at least one million weapons Maenner counted a nation of old and well-warlike
fame, a maximum of 50,000 Romans had to hang up the yoke.

The subjugation of the Confederation of middle Gaul, without being even
one beat done by the Belgian, without doing more than they want to
beat, while the back heldenmuetige Nervian and sinking of the
Veneti, the wise and happy resistance of the Morin and the British
under Cassivellaunus - everything in detail and has failed, failed
and was achieved, spurred the minds of all patriots to new, perhaps
more united and more successful attempts.

Notably, under the Celtic nobility was a fermentation process, which
every moment into a general uprising to erupt seemed.

Even before the second train to Britain in spring 700 (54) Caesar had
found it necessary to personally to go to Treviri which, since they
are 697 (57) in the Nervierschlacht be compromised, and at the general
councils were no longer appeared and with the Germans ueberrheinischen
more than suspicious connections had adequate follow. At the
time, Caesar is merely the most prominent men of the Patriot Party, including
the Indutiomarus under the quota with treverischen riders according to
lead Britain, he did his, the conspiracy will not be seen, not by
strict measures to Insurrektion put into action. Solo than Haeduer Dumnorix,
who also refers to the name as an equestrian officer, in fact, but as
a hostage in Britain after the army was certain, absolutely refused
to einzuschiffen and instead rode home, Caesar could not help but
follow him as outliers to leave, while it is informed by the
Department nachgeschickten sought and because it is against the
same set of weirs, niedergehauen ward (700 54).

That the prestigious Knight of the most powerful and least dependent
Keltengaus of the Romans were killed, was a thunderclap for the whole
Celtic nobles, each of which is similar ethos was aware - and it was the
immense majority - saw that the disaster image of what stood before
him myself. If patriotism and despair, the heads of the Celtic aristocracy
had determined to conspirators, then drove fear and now the defense
Verschworenen to hit.

In winter, 700/01 (54/53) stored with the exception of one in Brittany
and a second in the very troubled Gau of Carnuten (near Chartres)
Legion relocated, the entire Roman army, six legions strong, in
the Belgian territory.

The scarcity of Getreidevorraete Caesar had led his troops as he
used to do otherwise, apart and in six different in Gauen of
Bellovaker, Ambiani, Morin, Nervian, Reiner and Eburones, set up
camp to relocate.

The farthest against East Eburones area, probably near the later
Aduatuca, today's Tongeren, stand-scale bearings, the strongest
of all, consisting of a legion in one of the Caesars Divisionsfuehrer,
the Titurius Quintus Sabinus, and also different from the brave
Lucius Aurunculeius Cotta, guided detachments along the thickness
of half a legion ^ 18, found himself suddenly from the land of the
storm Eburones among the kings and Ambiorix Catuvolcus surrounded.

The attack came so unexpectedly that even absent from the camp teams
could not be convened and the enemies have been lifted; Moreover, there
was first the danger is not great, since there was no shortage and
inventories of the storm, the Eburones tried to attend the Roman
hide abprallte powerless.

But Koenig Ambiorix opened the Roman commanders that all Gaul in the Roman
camp on the same days in the same way and attacked the Romans were
undoubtedly lost, if the Corps does not aufbraechen quickly and
be united with each other, so that Sabinus the more reason to have
rush against him as well ueberrheinischen the Germans were already
on the way, that he himself made friendship for the Romans them
free deduction up to the next, only two Roman camps Tagemaersche
distant promise.

Some of these data has not been invented, that the small, from the
Romans are particularly favored Gau Eburones of the attack on his
own hand did, was indeed unbelievable, and the difficulty with the
other, remote camps are in contact the danger of the whole mass of
Insurgente attacked and isolated aufgerieben to be in no small
respect, nevertheless could not doubt the subject, that both the
honor as the wisdom offered by the enemy offered to capitulate and
rejected the items entrusted endure.

Also in the war took many voices, including the important of Lucius
Cotta Aurunculeius this view.

Nevertheless, the commander decided in favor of the proposal to Ambiorix.
The Roman troops were therefore on the other morning, but in a narrow
valley, barely half a mile from the camp, arrived, they found
themselves surrounded by the Eburones and every way out is blocked.

But it's rather pathetic."

"It's disgusting," said his wife; and at this General Triscoe, who had
been watching the actress through his lorgnette, said, as if his
contrary-mindedness were irresistibly invoked:

"Well, I don't know. It's amusing. Do you suppose we shall see her when
we go behind, March?"

He still professed a desire to do so when the curtain fell, and they
hurried to the rear door of the theatre. It was slightly ajar, and they
pulled it wide open, with the eagerness of their age and nation, and
began to mount the stairs leading up from it between rows of painted
dancing-girls, who had come out for a breath of air, and who pressed
themselves against the walls to make room for the intruders. With their
rouged faces, and the stare of their glassy eyes intensified by the
coloring of their brows and lashes, they were like painted statues, as
they stood there with their crimsoned lips parted in astonished smiles.

"This is rather weird," said March, faltering at the sight. "I wonder if
we might ask these young ladies where to go?" General Triscoe made no
answer, and was apparently no more prepared than himself to accost the
files of danseuses, when they were themselves accosted by an angry voice
from the head of the stairs with a demand for their business. The voice
belonged to a gendarme, who descended toward them and seemed as deeply
scandalized at their appearance as they could have been at that of the
young ladies.

March explained, in his ineffective German, with every effect of
improbability, that they were there by appointment of the manager, and
wished to find his room.

The gendarme would not or could not make anything out of it. He pressed
down upon them, and laying a rude hand on a shoulder of either, began to
force them back to the door. The mild nature of the editor might have
yielded to his violence, but the martial spirit of General Triscoe was
roused. He shrugged the gendarme's hand from his shoulder, and with a
voice as furious as his own required him, in English, to say what the
devil he meant. The gendarme rejoined with equal heat in German; the
general's tone rose in anger; the dancing-girls emitted some little
shrieks of alarm, and fled noisily up the stairs. From time to time March
interposed with a word of the German which had mostly deserted him in his
hour of need; but if it had been a flow of intelligible expostulation, it
would have had no effect upon the disputants. They grew more outrageous,
till the manager himself, appeared at the head of the stairs, and
extended an arresting hand over the hubbub. As soon as the situation
clarified itself he hurried down to his visitors with a polite roar of
apology and rescued them from the gendarme, and led them up to his room
and forced them into arm-chairs with a rapidity of reparation which did
not exhaust itself till he had entreated them with every circumstance of
civility to excuse an incident so mortifying to him. But with all his
haste he lost so much time in this that he had little left to show them
through the theatre, and their presentation to the prima donna was
reduced to the obeisances with which they met and parted as she went upon
the stage at the lifting of the curtain. In the lack of a common language
this was perhaps as well as a longer interview; and nothing could have
been more honorable than their dismissal at the hands of the gendarme who
had received them so stormily. He opened the door for them, and stood
with his fingers to his cap saluting, in the effect of being a whole file
of grenadiers.


XLIII.

At the same moment Burnamy bowed himself out of the box where he had been
sitting with the ladies during the absence of the gentlemen. He had
knocked at the door almost as soon as they disappeared, and if he did not
fully share the consternation which his presence caused, he looked so
frightened that Mrs. March reserved the censure which the sight of him
inspired, and in default of other inspiration treated his coming simply
as a surprise. She shook hands with him, and then she asked him to sit
down, and listened to his explanation that he had come back to Carlsbad
to write up the birthnight festivities, on an order from the Paris-New
York Chronicle; that he had seen them in the box and had ventured to took
in. He was pale, and so discomposed that the heart of justice was
softened more and more in Mrs. March's breast, and she left him to the
talk that sprang up, by an admirable effect of tact in the young lady,
between him and Miss Triscoe.

After all, she decided, there was nothing criminal in his being in
Carlsbad, and possibly in the last analysis there was nothing so very
wicked in his being in her box. One might say that it was not very nice
of him after he had gone away under such a cloud; but on the other hand
it was nice, though in a different way, if he longed so much to see Miss
Triscoe that he could not help coming. It was altogether in his favor
that he was so agitated, though he was momently becoming less agitated;
the young people were beginning to laugh at the notion of Mr. March and
General Triscoe going behind the scenes. Burnamy said he envied them the
chance; and added, not very relevantly, that he had come from Baireuth,
where he had seen the last of the Wagner performances. He said he was
going back to Baireuth, but not to Ansbach again, where he had finished
looking up that Kaspar Hauser business. He seemed to think Mrs. March
would know about it, and she could not help saying; Oh, yes, Mr. March
was so much interested. She wondered if she ought to tell him about his
handkerchief; but she remembered in time that she had left it in Miss
Triscoe's keeping. She wondered if the girl realized how handsome he was.
He was extremely handsome, in his black evening dress, with his Tuxedo,
and the pallor of his face repeated in his expanse of shirt front.

At the bell for the rising of the curtain he rose too, and took their
offered hands. In offering hers Mrs. March asked if he would not stay and
speak with Mr. March and the general; and now for the first time he
recognized anything clandestine in his visit. He laughed nervously, and
said, "No, thank you!" and shut himself out.

"We must tell them," said Mrs. March, rather interrogatively, and she was
glad that the girl answered with a note of indignation.

"Why, certainly, Mrs. March."

It was already in the bed of her boys and had the hot hand on his forehead
rest. "You wake up, my Carlitos?" she whispered and bowed down to him.
He did not wake, and he slept not, he is rushed to and fro restlessly,
and the hands erglühten in dry fever heat. Ange over the lively
Jorinde and the other children of the Virgin occurring and bade
them go over into the dining room.

They even went after it cool cloths on Carlitos' forehead laid, initially
in the room of her husband. The count sat - a schmerzerweckender sight
- in his big chair and had his head buried in his hands. The curtains were
firmly apply the screen with a green lamp surrounded disseminates a dull,
melancholy light, and a atembeengende air filled the chamber.
To this end, the eerie silence and embarrassment, the things her happy
face lengthy order. Ange appeared dull room like a tomb; involuntarily
schrak together. And no sign of life from him, when she opened the door.
He was either asleep or had exhausted him into a Halbwachs,
free-willed state.

"Dear Carlos!" Ange said softly, and stepped to the chair in which the
large fractional figure rested. "You want?" asked a deep voice. "Do not
you think that our Carlitos is sick? I come for you to ask what the doctor
has said. I am in great concern." He nodded slowly and tired her head to
confirm. "It is until now everything has happened, what he has ordered.
I was with our boys. He sleeps. The doctor says that we should wait for
the night, it would perhaps be necessary to cold baths. "" And what
is it? " Ange asked outwardly calm, inwardly by an indescribable
fear eaten.

"I do not know," said Claire Fort soundless and let the head back
into the rights-based fall.

They fell down beside him and took the limp left hanging. My Carlos!
" she breathed deeply and quietly. He was the gentle pressure, but he
stressed they would not, and for moments it seemed in the chamber as
extinct. Only a quiet sobbing was heard, from the beleaguered
soul Anges climbed upwards. They both knew to what it was, why they
hingesunken was beside him and wept. Was that the same man who
used to offer advertised by Butin hand, the strong man from whose
eyes the life flashed How Ange had her luck geneidet!

He had wooed them like no man before a woman. Her smile, her gentle
glance intoxicated him, and tore her happiness with him gone, and even
the thörichte hope of an eternal duration of the happiness he shared
with her. And as Carlitos was born and later Jorinde and Erna - he
had not impetuous joy wobble the house with flowers to decorate
their surroundings and presented daily for hours, thanks to fulfill sat
on her bed? And that's still the same, as the two beautiful boys came to
the world. He planned to offer what they dermaleinst should be, as he
for her, for the rest of the future could provide. With the birth
of the young employees had already made many things differently. Fort
Claire was not so warm, so participating: other things employed him. It
seemed as if something violent, treat him as if a heavy grief gnaw
at him.

The return to a cheerful, carefree mood was always only a temporary,
and she was always with a visual constraint connected. And then he was
always dark, always taciturn, always evasive of, lived only for
himself, probably scolded once in fierce anger, but escaped yet
again into his solitude.

In C. moved after apparently took him once again with the old joy of living
. He Ange overwhelmed with tenderness, listened to their aspirations and
spoke of a new life in new circumstances. Also wrong, he is no longer
so mysterious, and with Tibet. But soon it was again as formerly, even
worse, because the old one seemed to worry him anew to oppress, and
even the jealousy consumed him. And yet he looked at his wife not to
be used, and only temporarily, he was reasonably accessible clashes.
Gradually he was suffering from the nervous complaints increased.

The doctor had pronounced it, it was not to hide: an incurable spinal
disease to consume him. Recently he came to his farewell one. Now he sat
there, no man, no soldier, no Reitermann more broken, a man of life,
quietly or loudly in pain wimmernd.

But not only physical suffering had paralyzed him. He had sued over
each issue, and yet had the power to change something, or something
to refuse.

Yes, certainly, but also the worries tormented and persecuted him.

And besides this imaginary Ange Teuts.

What a man, what a friend! As he had intervened in the situation, as
he so well designed, and how crabby he had thanked Carlos. What should
be! How sad, dismal as the woman stared at the life and future!

Today, she repeatedly encouraged by Teut, once again drove and had
hineingeträumt for hours in the old carefree days.

Your thoughts were but the memories of Carlitos interrupted.

"Carlos, my Carlos!" she whispered. "I suffer terribly, because I know
that you suffer. Say, Carlos" - she faltered, she pressed his hand and
laid her head on his shoulder - "You love me still?" "Oh Ange - Ange!"
pressed the man out. "Whether I love you?"

Suddenly, he turned with a painstaking, but quickly move to her, covered
it with his arms, lifted her up and covered her face with kisses, and
- with Thränen. "Tell me, what worries you, my Carlos, what depresses you
beside your illness, to which I worry day and night, "Ange finally
lifted and clings to the solid chest of her husband. continuity Claire
trembled as if it were a crime to be reminded.

She felt it. A pressing, inexplicable angst full feeling hunted by their
affairs. But he was not speaking, not even now, where their souls with
love and tenderness zusammenschmolzen, not even now, where they
took the highest, what people can pass through breast.

She was to genteel nature to want to force anything, what you do not
voluntarily granted. And for him not to leave in doubt, they whispered
soothing: "Not curiosity makes me ask, my only expensive Carlos,
just worry - worry - to you -" The last words were stifled by her
sobs.

But he sighed, tortured pain of soul, deep, and now his head on her
breast bergend like a child, he breathed, "Oh Ange, Ange, angel
you - not just in name an angel!"

After her husband left Ange had mastered it just the only idea of how they
can help your child.

They ordered that once again will be sent to the doctor, and revoked it
again, because he barely an hour before the house had left. She ordered,
anzuspannen to him to drive, and yet they sent the car again.

Finally decided to yet another doctor to consult and this is that
the next day with their anxiety and concern to apologize.

They also wrote a really Billet, and a servant was so FORTEIL, but he came
back without having thing, because that the country was founded. Now
at last they turned their thoughts to Teut. Could the friend in this
late evening hour to ask itself ? They squatted on the bed of the boy
and looked at each of its movements. Ah, but if it had not
relented when he insisted, left behind, in the nearby pond to fish!
There could be toxic vapors risen - he liked to have violently cold
- or was it even an accident attributed encounter, which he had
concealed. So it went in their to and fro. Always they are cooled by a new
face of the boy, he moved the pillow, listened, listened to his
breathing and was tenderly and anxiously around him worried.

But the disease was after midnight a violent character. Carlitos wanted
out of bed and said, confused things. He fought with her, while she
resisted him, weeping. "Oh, be quiet, my dear Carlitos, I implore
you to!

Do you see not that your mom is with you, please, please, Carlitos,
remained brisk, and you do not on! "But he knew her no longer, he raced
in fierce fever. In death Ange fears pulled the cord. Tibet appeared. He
sat patiently waiting in the adjoining room. "Go, go and see whether
the count yet watched. If he can come, ask him to me, but he should be
suspended -" Now the boy stirred again and struck around him. "Oh,
Tibet, Tibet , my child! "No, no, you hear! hurry you! You should
bring a tub, ice water and then - I thank you in advance, Tibet! hurry
to Mr. von Teut, tell him I would ask him flehentlich, to come!

Not true, the doctor said you should, if the fever will be worse,
cold douse him?

Oh, and the windows are closed, we must open it, I heard air, fresh air is
especially necessary, "and Tibet hastened away, and the woman was
again alone with their worries and cares.

Teut was released, was comforted, and had helped. He sat the kids in the
tub and dripped water from large sponges on the main heißglühende; he
raised him from the warehouse and embedded him again, he ordered that
the other children in other chambers were managed and led by his
care, that Carlitos against morning in a quiet sleep sank.

But it was that against that of fever pitch no human could help a little,
or that the unfathomable fate determined it had - the heart of this
woman should break Holden.

After temporary improvement in the disease raged only more violent,
and what to do with all the means to banish looked, seemed only to
reinforce.

The doctors were looking for comfort, but the child was lost. After several
rings were the cheeks of the boy, a strange color covered his face was
dry forehead and hands, from the mouth penetrated a breath before Ange
shudders, and finally - it was a cry from the sick room - went out of the
heartbeat of the child. * * * * * "Teut," Ange said, in a room after the
garden was bedded, and - a marble image comparable to the Thränen
vergießt - every human compassion wachrufen had a few days later,
"I have a request to you when my sweet boy - "- here the voice broke
and lost in a so-consuming sobs that the strong man shudders affairs
-" if tomorrow Carlitos is buried, let Lux Lady Anna and the dead
wagon move.

Do you know yet, Teut, like the animals loved Carlitos? you to possess,
was his highest desire. He wanted to be quite like you, Teut. Everything
you that what you had, was inimitable. Not true, you have it love
-? "Thränen choked her voice again. Teut turned away and stepped to the
window. Yes, their wish should be fulfilled, but it took three years
of preparation, before the Teut a moment zurückschreckte. These wild
creatures were not mourning cautious step, they had hunted,
exhausted, in order to move the boy's gentle mortal remains of the
dead to lead field.

"It giebt nothing that I would refuse you, Ange," said Teut moves,
the pale and sick hand.

"I am going now to prepare for everything." He is violently tore it off,
Claire visited Fort, the whole broken daniederlag, and hurried home.
Here he met some respect at the funeral arrangements, and then he left
tense. His two servants had to be put on the back seat and now he left
the city. In Carriere Teut chased on the roads, drove all night, relentless
on the animals einhauend, and when she finally returned, as Lux
and Lady Anna stood trembling, as in fever showers and gasped as
martyred battle cries.

A dish of white roses, lilies and camellias are completely covered,
had already arrived.

It was Lux and Lady Anna, and from them even before the dark mourning
carriages excited by the countless roses in bunches of same colors
herabhingen or corollas were aufgebunden.

Teut Sun reached, followed by curious crowds, the Villa. In the house it
smelled sharp and scary Life after flowers and laurel, also fulfilled
a deafening air all rooms, as wreaths and bouquets were schleifenverzierte
mountain high in the anteroom.

At last the moment came. Man with raised flowers and leaves overwhelmed
coffin up and carried him down. Teut led Claire Fort and Ange, which is
now before thränenlos pain, with irrem glance at his arms hung to the
window, opened it and let them look out. In this moment sounded in soft
chords sad march, long-drawn, painful and everyone present to the
heart touching. And then looked at Ange Teuts favorite horses, with
lowered heads, like mittrauernd and sympathy, and stood by their black
bodies white flowers farewell umwunden were the Teut his Carlitos young
friends on their way there. "Carlitos, Carlitos - my only sweet boy!
- Carlos O! Teut - Teut!" Ange broke it out, and remaining in the first
view is an expression of mingled devotion thankful that Teut reward was
for everything. At last the men Ange left the hands of women and joined
in the mourning clothes harrenden siblings to the Corrupt. How beautiful
she was with her his, pale faces and with her golden hair, and
above all, as touching the Ange looked small, behind the coffin
einherschritt.

It was as if the mother has become young again, but now no longer human
entity, but an angel with that herabgestiegener melancholy waiver
in serious trains, which we in the Holy admire paintings of great masters
. As the sounds of music in the distance were punishing than the last
dark shapes look Anges were removed, as now a reality, while the thoughts
and feelings of women in überqualvollen Day and After hours aufgelehnt
had also fired because of the pain again up, pushed his burning tongues
in the heart of the tested women and meant that she, with a muffled scream
fell to the ground. For example, Tibet, in the next room, pale as
a convicted, the transactions with the outside view was followed and
is now terrified herbeieilte, his beautiful, poor, dear lady. A few
weeks had passed. Teut Claire sat in the fort's living room and had
a small supply on the lap. The child was playing with a silver chain,
from the hervorschaute tunic, and pulled out last. Ange has often had
on the mysterious ticking gelauscht now drove them today again to curiosity.
"Wait," said Teut good-natured, sparked the clock and put them
in the delicate hands of the Holden little girl. "Carlitos had a clock,"
Ange lifted, while with the finger tips on the dabs glass. Teut and
look up, she continued: "Did he bring it? Is it the love God?" As
Teut not immediately answered, they slipped it by the brisk lap and
cried: "Then I must ask Mom!"

But he held her and once she moved in itself. "Bleib, Ange. Mummy's asleep.
We can not interfere. I will tell you everything: No, my favorite, his
clock has not taken Carlitos. The has your dad. Maybe if you grow are,
you get it. "" This is much too big!

That is a Mens! " Ange cried with repellent importance, "Mom has promised
me a little - a very small, like her Bella -" "Bella? Who's Bella?"
"That's my big doll." "Oh, forgive, Ange that I do not know. "" Shall
I fetch it? " The child nodded vigorously. And without waiting for
reply, she ran away and came back immediately. "It is not now, uncle,"
she said seriously, "Bella is asleep." "So? You sleep? Can you not wake?
Please, bring it, so I to know you. "Ange shook her lovely head, but the
pale face Chen stole a mischievous expression." Because she is yes!
Because it is yes!

And you've noticed nothing at all! " they cheered, pulled the back hidden
behind the dolls, and put it to him in her arms.

"Is she pretty, uncle?" "Very pretty, Ange." "I have one, but -" "Well?"
"Ben has an eye eingestoßen her and also the nose."

"Because I'll probably need a new gift, Ange? "The Little shook his
head." No? Why not? "" Mama says you schenk test us so much. We
should never ask for anything more. "" So, says Mama? But you've not asked
to tender. I have offered you so. "For a moment thought the child and
thought, then nodded it vividly:" Yes, a fairly large, which can also
sleep and a silk dress has Uncle Axel. goodness you they me soon -
today? "" I want to see, Ange. But I fall a little. If I'm going to bring
a doll and the other not? "" The others did not play with dolls! "
called Ange, Teuts ignorance of the highest punitive contempt.
"Quite right! But they certainly want to have something else, what makes
them happy. Erna wants maybe a silk parasol, Jorinde a new hat, and Ben
and Fred would like to have small ponies. "" Yes, yes, Uncle Axel,
"cried stormily Ange," Schenk them ponies, then we can ride together
- "But they broke off as quickly:" No, uncle, but it is not. Mama do not
want that you tell us a little goodness. Dad is not allowed.

"Teut listened to." He asked Mom where she would have her money. Mum
was crying and said that you would have us gift money. Because Dad was
so angry that we all cried and had to go. Mom can take nothing from you,
uncle. No, uncle, give Ben and Fred no ponies. daddy takes them away yet,
and they will be punished. But I want Dad to ask me if you can give a
doll. Yes , uncle? mom should ask him. "Teut not answered. It still
running him in the ears, what the child is spoken, and his thoughts
were far away. "Uncle Axel, Axel uncle! Do not you think?" "Yes, my
dear child," whispered Teut, like waking from a dream ". You will
receive your doll." Ange clapped their hands and jumped from him. * * *
* * On the same day in the afternoon hours Jamp opened the Wohnstubenthür
his master and reported the captain of chirp. "Ah, chirp! Welcome ! Take
a seat! "" I do not disturb? "" Not - please! cigars here. "After a few
moments were the two men over."

I come, "pointed to chirp," You a big favor to ask , Teut. "" Please, if
it is in my power - "" So, without discharges. I need five thousand
marks, which I currently do not have, but I can get by guarantee. I wanted
to ask you now, dearest Teut, that you - "" guarantees, I never,
"replied Teut." I got my father a sworn an oath that I never in a way
to oblige. So this case is excluded. "" Fatal! I need the money tomorrow
and already know not to purchase it otherwise. "" Well, until tomorrow
-? "Said Teut thoughtfully. And after a pause:" Excuse the question
of how the thing is so on the hour can be worse? It is not possible,
as soon to serve. "Teut proposed together with the chopping and Zirps
faces painted some embarrassment. He touched the ashes of the cigar on
the floor and then used with a subsequent" Pardon! "the provided
Aschbecher." Please, please! "pushed Teut phlegmatic admits." Listen,
dear Teut, "began with the chirp forced start," I will speak openly. I
have issued in exchange, which already were due yesterday.

I hoped at the time they pay for. With my sister, which I certainly
afford to have my application rejected. "He stopped, but he does not
Teut came to their aid. One was an awkward pause." Well, "said Teut and
finally dropped the long mustache," I understand. But what I do not quite
understand "- this chirp was haughty tone, this little school masterful
beings Teuts entirely unbearable - how do you get after the usual period
of three months to pay?" Chirp bit on the lips and the ash knipste again
on the carpet. "Can you give a guarantee that you will at that time to
eliminate the difficulties of assets?" "Certainly, certainly," replied
chirp recklessly. "And this would be?" Teut drove relentlessly
continued. "Well, my sister is spread can be beat - "" Hm! But if you now
but in this assumption wrong? "" Ah, that's just unthinkable!

It must be so - "" You must? Why? Excuse me - "" Now it is but everything
is at stake if I do not pay. You know the consequences. "Dared chirp
during the final words of the eye is not rising up. Teut looked at him and
shook his head, then he said in a mild tone:" chirp! They have been
reckless. I appreciated you as a man of honor. Would it not be better,
you bent at times of disaster, which seems inevitable in the circumstances,
it appears? "Chirp had collected and arranged on the floor several
Cigar Teuts Renta Chen. Halb fermented it in to him, grabbed him half
the better insight. Finally he said: "I see that you do not want to help
me.

Please -" he interrupted his speech, as Teut made a movement, "I do not
reproach you with it. Since you are the best of intentions but have
spoken - no doubt - what should I do with your advice and suggestive for
the future tomorrow to meet my obligations? "
The coloring of the great canvases is Venetian, but there is no
such democracy of greatness as in the painting at Venice; in decoration
the art of Nuremberg is at best quaint, and at the worst puerile.
Wherever it had obeyed an academic intention it seemed to March poor and
coarse, as in the bronze fountain beside the Church of St. Lawrence. The
water spins from the pouted breasts of the beautiful figures in streams
that cross and interlace after a fancy trivial and gross; but in the base
of the church there is a time-worn Gethsemane, exquisitely affecting in
its simple-hearted truth. The long ages have made it even more affecting
than the sculptor imagined it; they have blurred the faces and figures in
passing till their features are scarcely distinguishable; and the
sleeping apostles seem to have dreamed themselves back into the
mother-marble. It is of the same tradition and impulse with that supreme
glory of the native sculpture, the ineffable tabernacle of Adam Krafft,
which climbs a column of the church within, a miracle of richly carven
story; and no doubt if there were a Nuremberg sculptor doing great things
today, his work would be of kindred inspiration.

The descendants of the old patrician who ordered the tabernacle at rather
a hard bargain from the artist still worship on the floor below, and the
descendants of his neighbor patricians have their seats in the pews
about, and their names cut in the proprietary plates on the pew-tops. The
vergeress who showed the Marches through the church was devout in the
praise of these aristocratic fellow-citizens of hers. "So simple, and yet
so noble!" she said. She was a very romantic vergeress, and she told them
at unsparing length the legend of the tabernacle, how the artist fell
asleep in despair of winning his patron's daughter, and saw in a vision
the master-work with the lily-like droop at top, which gained him her
hand. They did not realize till too late that it was all out of a novel
of Georg Ebers's, but added to the regular fee for the church a gift
worthy of an inedited legend.

Even then they had a pleasure in her enthusiasm rarely imparted by the
Nuremberg manner. They missed there the constant, sweet civility of
Carlsbad, and found themselves falling flat in their endeavors for a
little cordiality. They indeed inspired with some kindness the old woman
who showed them through that cemetery where Albert Durer and Hans Sachs
and many other illustrious citizens lie buried under monumental brasses
of such beauty:

   "That kings to have the like, might wish to die."

But this must have been because they abandoned themselves so willingly to
the fascination of the bronze skull on the tomb of a fourteenth-century
patrician, which had the uncommon advantage of a lower jaw hinged to the
upper. She proudly clapped it up and down for their astonishment, and
waited, with a toothless smile, to let them discover the bead of a nail
artfully figured in the skull; then she gave a shrill cackle of joy, and
gleefully explained that the wife of this patrician had killed him by
driving a nail into his temple, and had been fitly beheaded for the
murder.

She cared so much for nothing else in the cemetery, but she consented to
let them wonder at the richness of the sculpture in the level tombs, with
their escutcheons and memorial tablets, overrun by the long grass and the
matted ivy; she even consented to share their indignation at the
destruction of some of the brasses and the theft of others. She suffered
more reluctantly their tenderness for the old, old crucifixion figured in
sculpture at one corner of the cemetery, where the anguish of the Christ
had long since faded into the stone from which it had been evoked, and
the thieves were no longer distinguishable in their penitence or
impenitence; but she parted friends with them when she saw how much they
seemed taken with the votive chapel of the noble Holzschuh family, where
a line of wooden shoes puns upon the name in the frieze, like the line of
dogs which chase one another, with bones in their mouths, around the
Canossa palace at Verona. A sense of the beautiful house by the Adige was
part of the pleasing confusion which possessed them in Nuremberg whenever
they came upon the expression of the gothic spirit common both to the
German and northern Italian art. They knew that it was an effect which
had passed from Germany into Italy, but in the liberal air of the older
land it had come to so much more beauty that now, when they found it in
its home, it seemed something fetched from over the Alps and coarsened in
the attempt to naturalize it to an alien air.

In the Germanic Museum they fled to the Italian painters from the German
pictures they had inspired; in the great hall of the Rathhaus the noble
Processional of Durer was the more precious, because his Triumph of
Maximilian somehow suggested Mantegna's Triumph of Caesar. There was to
be a banquet in the hall, under the mighty fresco, to welcome the German
Emperor, coming the next week, and the Rathhaus was full of work-people
furbishing it up against his arrival, and making it difficult for the
custodian who had it in charge to show it properly to strangers. She was
of the same enthusiastic sisterhood as the vergeress of St. Lawrence and
the guardian of the old cemetery, and by a mighty effort she prevailed
over the workmen so far as to lead her charges out through the corridor
where the literal conscience of the brothers Kuhn has wrought in the roof
to an exact image of a tournament as it was in Nuremberg four hundred
years ago. His two best legions were ebendiejenigen which Flaccus and Fimbria
668 (86) to the East led, despite them recently after the battle of
Kabeira by thirteen well-deserved farewell campaigns had been undertaken,
she Lucullus now still on the Euphrates, a new war against
incalculable - it seemed as if the winner of Kabeira worse deal
than those beaten by Canna.

The fact that with so weak and so tuned troops captain on your own,
strictly speaking, unconstitutional and an expedition that began
in a distant and unknown land full travel channel currents and
mountains of snow, which by its massive expansion undertaken every
reckless attack was dangerous, was in fact more than daring.

Many and not without reason, therefore Lucullus' procedure blamed in Rome,
only one would not be silent, that initially the wrong of the government
of that daring actions of the commander and led the same if not
justified, but excusable made. Already the mission of the Appius Claudius
was next to the task of the war diplomatically to motivate the end had
the princes and cities against Syria's First Large Koenig under the guns
to bring, in spring 685 (69) was the formal attack. During the winter, the
king of Cappadocia in silent carriers provided for and this was
at the Euphrates Melitene exceeded and then march on the Tauruspaesse
addressed to the Tigris.

Also about this progressive Lucullus in the area of Amida (Diarbekr) and
moved further in front on the street to which the southern
boundary of Armenia's newly formed second capital Tigranokerta ^ 3
with the old metropolis Artaxata association. For the majority of those
stood Koenig, shortly before zurueckgekommen from Syria, after his
pursuit of his Eroberungsplaene the Mediterranean Sea because of
the entanglement with the Romans had temporarily postponed.

Just an idea, he has designed in the Roman Asia Minor, from Cilicia
and Lykaonien and pondered to himself, whether the Romans immediately
Asia rooms or even before that, such as Ephesus, that he would make
the battle, when he the news of the Anmarsche Luculls was brought which
distinguishes it from the link with Artaxata off threatened. He left
the messengers aufknuepfen, but the annoying fact remained as it was, so
he left because the new capital, and went to the inner Armenia, where,
what has not happened, against the Romans upon them. Meanwhile should
Mithrobarzanes with just the available troops in conjunction with the
ringing of activities surrounding the Beduinenstaemmen Roemer employ.
With the Corps of Mithrobarzanes was already Vortrab from the Roman,
the Arabs by a detachment under Sextilius blown; Lucullus won by
Tigranokerta after leading Artaxata street, and while on the right
a Roman detachment Tigrisufer the north peeling large Koenig's, he went
himself to the left and moved on before Tigranokerta. The endless rain
arrow, with which the crew overwhelmed the Roman army, and the ignition
of the siege machines naphtha inaugurated here by the Romans into the
new threats of the Iranian war, and the brave commander Mankaeos claimed
the city, until finally the great king from Entsatzarmee all parts
of the vast empire and adjacent, the Armenian advertisers gathered
outstanding landscapes and through passes to the northeast of the
capital Entsatz was approaching.

The wars in the Mithradats proven leader Taxiles advised to avoid the
battle and the small crowd by the Roman cavalry on redenominate
and auszuhungern. Alone as the king of the Roman commander, who had
decided, the battle to deliver, without question of lifting the siege,
with not much more than 10000 man against twenty times about power and
Outdent pertly saw crossing the waters, the two armies separated, as he
on one side overlooks the small crowd, "the embassy too much for too
little armies", on the other his immense Heerhaufen in which the
peoples of the Black and the Caspian to the Mediterranean Sea and
the Persian Gulf are met, the dreaded eisenbedeckte Lanze riders
alone were numerous as Lucullus' army, and where there is also Roman
foot-armed nation is not enough, since he decided that the enemy
sought to ungesaeumt battle.

While the Armenians but yet so ordered, recognized Lucullus' sharp eye,
that they had failed, a height to fill the position of all their riders
dominated: he ran it with two cohorts einzunehmen by both his weak flank
by a cavalry attack to draw attention the enemies of this movement
deflects, and the top and he was, he led his small pile of the enemy's
cavalry in the back.

It was entirely blown up and threw himself to the not yet fully organized
infantry, the davonlief without even the beating to come.

The Bulletin of the winner that 100,000 Armenians and 5 Roemer had fallen
and the king and turban bandage on its forehead undetected tossing
with a few riders davongesprengt it is in the style of his master, Sulla
drafted; Nevertheless remains alone on 6 Oct 685 (69) before Tigranokerta
erfochtene win one of the brightest stars in the glorious history
of Rome's war, and he was no less successful than brilliant.

All of the Tigris south of the Parthians or the Syrians snatched landscapes
were so strategically the Armenians were mostly lost, and without
further over into the possession of the winner.

The newly built second capital itself was the beginning. In her very numerous
Greek Zwangsansiedler outraged against the occupation and opened the
Roman armies of the gates of the city, the soldiers to pillage was divulged.
It was created for the new kingdom and became big as the winner of
this vertilgt. From Syria and Cilicia, the Armenian Satrap Magadates
already pulled all troops to Entsatzarmee before Tigranokerta too.
Lucullus moved into the northern countryside of Syria comma genes and
stormed the capital Samosata; till the ultimate Syria he was not yet
reached by the Dynastes and communities to the Red Sea down of Hellenes,
Syrians, Jews, Arabs, envoy to the Romans as the new overlords to pay
homage. Even the Prince of Corduene the east of Tigranokerta lying landscape
is subdued, while admittedly in Nisibis in Mesopotamia, and thus
the brother of the great King Guras is claimed.

Lucullus to be joined as a patron of the Hellenistic Fuersten and
residents in Kommagene he a prince of the Seleucid house, Antiochos, on
the throne; Antiochos the Asians, who after the departure of the Armenians
after Antiocheia had returned, he recognized as a king of Syria the settlers
forced from Tigranokerta he fired back in their hometowns. The vast
stores and treasures of the great King - of cereals, 30 million Medimnen
on money alone in Tigranokerta 8000 talents (12 «million thalers) captured
- Lucullus made it possible, the costs of war to deny, without
the Treasury to take and each of his soldiers out of ample meals a
veneration of 800 denarii (240 crowns) to make. -----------------------------
-------------------- ^ 3 That Tigranokerta in the region of Mardin about
two Tagemaersche located west of Nisibis, has the kind of KE (About the
situation of Tigranokerta, Abh. of the Berlin Academy, 1880) on
the spot investigation employed proved, even if the proposed
expenditure of fixing the precise location is not in doubt. By contrast,
his discussion about the campaign Luculls the concerns that the route is
adopted by an excess over the Tigris in fact not the question.
------------------ ---------------------------- The great king was
deeply humiliated.

He was a feeble character, over-the luck in the misfortune despondent;
probably would Lucullus between him and an agreement was arrived to the
great king with considerable sacrifices to purchase, the Roman captain
fair level under both conditions cause all had when the Mithradates
old would not have been. This had not participated in the battles around
Tigranokerta. Due to the large between the king and the Romans had been
under stress zwanzigmonatlicher stick around the middle of the year
684 (70) free, with 10000, he was Armenian horsemen in his former kingdom
has been dispatched to the communications of the enemy threat.
Recalled before he was something, when the great king aufbot its entire
power to the capital he built on terror, came during his arrival on
Tigranokerta him already fleeing from the battlefield pile forward. From
the great king to the common soldiers all seemed lost everything. If,
however, Tigran now made peace, then disappeared for Mithradates not
just the last chance of reinstatement in his kingdom, but his extradition
was undoubtedly the first condition of peace, and certainly against him
Tigran would not otherwise have acted as Bocchus once against Jugurtha.
His entire personality informed about the king, in order to avoid that
phrase, and the Armenian court to pursue the war to determine when
they have nothing to lose and everything to win her; and as a fugitive and
dethrones Mithradates, was his influence on this court is not
limited.

Still, he was a handsome and powerful man who, though already over
sixty years old, in full armor on the horse swung in the scuffle
and is equal to the best man was his.

His mind seemed the years, and the fates gestaehlt to have it during
earlier times in his military leaders aussandte and the war itself is
not directly participated in, we find him now as a man in battle
can command and fight himself.

He, during his fuenfzigjaehrigen regiment so many outrageous Glueckswechsel
had seen, seemed the cause of the great King by the defeat of
Tigranokerta is far from lost, but Lucullus' position very difficult
and if it is not now on the peace came and the war in an appropriate
manner CONTINUING ward, even in highly questionable.

The much experienced man, almost like a father to the great king against
personally and now stood on the same effect could, beat the poor man by
his energy and certain it is not only for the continuation of war
to decide, but also himself with his political and military leadership
on the subject.

From a war cabinet, the king now an Asian nation, the kings and the peoples
of Asia to unite against the overwhelming and over-occidental. It was
the biggest effort made, the Armenians and the Parthians to
reconciliation between the community and they struggle against Rome
to determine.

On Mithradates' operation offered to Tigran, the Arsakiden Phraates, god
(reigned since 684 70), by the Armenians conquered Mesopotamia landscapes,
Adiabene, the "big valley", and returned with him friendship and alliance
making. Solo after everything previous was, this could hardly offer of a
favorable reception reckon; Phraates moved it to the Euphratgrenze
through a contract with the Armenians, but by the Romans to secure
and watch how the hated neighbor and the uncomfortable stranger
among aufrieben.

With greater success than to the kings Mithradates turned to the
peoples of the East.

It was not difficult to depict the war as a national of the Orient to the
Occident, as he was, indeed, he could probably also made to the
religious war and the speech disseminated, that the goal of the
Army Lucullischen the temple of the Persian Nanaea or in Anaitis
Elymais or Luristan today is the richest and the celebrated sanctuary
of the whole Euphratlandschaft ^ 4 Scharnstein way crowded from far
and Asians under the banner of the kings, which they control to the
East and his gods before the godless invaders to shield.

The facts had shown that the mere interaction tremendous buzz
Heerhaufen was not only fruitless, but by inserting themselves into
the same marching really schlagfaehigen and flocks destroyed and
in the general ruin mitverwickelt were.

Mithradates looked primarily to train the weapon, which are also the
weakest of the occidental and the strength of the Asians was the cavalry:
in his newly formed army was half the team Mounted. For the service
on foot he read from the mass of activities or voluntarily
reported to recruit the people dienstfaehigen carefully and let them by
his Pontic train officers. The sizeable army, was soon back under the
flags of the great King stood together, but was not determined on the
first Walstatt with the Roman veterans to measure, but on defense and
war on the small effects. Even the recent war in his rich Mithradates
had steadily zurueckweichend avoiding battle and run, but this was a
similar tactic on the war and the actual scene of Armenia determined
by the enemies still totally pristine Erbland of Tigran, by its physical
characteristics as well as the patriotism of its people for this war
splendidly suited. ----------------------------------------- ^ 4
---- Cicero (Cn Imp. Pomp. 9, 23) says hardly any other than a temple of
the rich landscape Elymais where the Syrian Raubzuege as the parthischen
kings are regularly directed (Strab. 16, 744; Polyb. 31, 11 the 1st
Makk. 6, etc.), and probably this as the best known, in no case shall
the temple of Komana or at any sanctuary in the Pontic range in
mind. ------------------------ --------------------- The year 686
(68) Lucullus took place in a difficult and worrying every day that
shape the situation.

Despite his brilliant victory in Rome, it was not satisfied with
him. The Senate felt the Unauthorized its proceedings, which he sensitively
injured party capitalists put all the means of intrigue and corruption
in motion to enforce its removal. Daily yell of the capital market of
just and unjust complaints about the foolhardiness, the habsuechtigen the
unroemischen the field hochverraeterischen Lord. The complaints about
the association of such a boundless power, governor of two ordinary
activities and extraordinary command of an important, in the hands of
such a man was also referred to the Senate so far, that he is one of
the province of Asia praetor, the province of Cilicia, together with
three newly excavated the legions Consul Quintus Marcius Rex
certain, and the commander of the command against Mithradates and
Tigran limited.

This in Rome against the commander rising a dangerous accusations
were echoed in the neighborhoods and the iris on the Tigris: the
more so as individual officers, including the own brother of the
commander, Publius Clodius, in this sense, the soldiers worked.

This no doubt of this compound in circulating rumor that Lucullus
now with the Ponto-Armenian war, an expedition against the Parthians
to combine remember, nourishes the bitterness of the troops.

During the difficult but then the government mood of the soldiers
as the victorious commander with dismissal and threatened mutiny,
he drove himself away, the desperate players, his bet and his cars
to increase.

Although against the Parthians, he moved not, but when Tigran showed neither
willing, peace making, nor, as Lucullus wished to establish a
second major battle there, decided by Lucullus Tigranokerta through
the difficult mountains on the eastern shore of Wansees in the
valley east of the Euphrates (or the Arsanias now Murad Tschai) and
from this into the Araxes ahead of where, on the northern slope of
Ararat, the capital of Armenia proper Artaxata with the Erbschloss
and the harem of King stood.

He hoped the king by the threat of his ancestral residence either underway
or at least before it Artaxata to hitting force. Overriding need, it was
admittedly in a department Tigranokerta behind, and because the
impossible Marschheer still could be further reduced, it remained
nothing left as a Pontus in the position to weaken and then troops
to Tigranokerta view.

The main difficulty, however, was for the military so uncomfortable Soon
the Armenian summer. On the Armenian Plateau, 5,000 feet and more
above the Meeresflaeche lies in Erzerum sprosst the grain until the
beginning of June, and with the harvest in September is also the
winter a, in a maximum of four months had reached Artaxata and the
campaign terminated. In midsummer 686 (68) broke Tigranokerta of Lucullus,
and took, without a doubt the Bitlispass and continue west on Wansee
marching up to the plateau of Musch and the Euphrates.

The march was under-resistant very annoying skirmishes with the
enemy's cavalry, including the Mounted archers, slowly but without major
obstacle manner, and also the Euphratuebergang that the Armenian cavalry
seriously defended, was taken by a meeting HAPPY forced the Armenian
infantry showed itself, but it was successful not to include them in
the battle to entangle. So the army came to the ultimate plateau of
Armenia and marched further into the unknown land. They had suffered no
actual injury, but the mere delay of the inevitable march through the
terrain difficulties and the hostile horsemen was in itself a very
sensitive disadvantage. Long before we had reached Artaxata broke the
winter here, and, like the Italian soldiers of snow and ice to be seen,
pulled too taut bow of military breeding. A formal mutiny urged the
commander, the withdrawal order, which he with his habitual skill accomplished.

March.

She spoke at last because she could put it off no longer, rather than
because the right time had come. She began as they sat at breakfast.
"Papa, there is something that I have got to tell you. It is something
that you ought to know; but I have put off telling you because--"

She hesitated for the reason, and "Well!" said her father, looking up at
her from his second cup of coffee. "What is it?"

Then she answered, "Mr. Burnamy has been here."

"In Carlsbad? When was he here?"

"The night of the Emperor's birthday. He came into the box when you were
behind the scenes with Mr. March; afterwards I met him in the crowd."

"Well?"

"I thought you ought to know. Mrs. March said I ought to tell you."

"Did she say you ought to wait a week?" He gave way to an irascibility
which he tried to check, and to ask with indifference, "Why did he come
back?"

"He was going to write about it for that paper in Paris." The girl had
the effect of gathering her courage up for a bold plunge. She looked
steadily at her father, and added: "He said he came back because he
couldn't help it. He--wished to speak with me, He said he knew he had no
right to suppose I cared anything about what had happened with him and
Mr. Stoller. He wanted to come back and tell me--that."

Her father waited for her to go on, but apparently she was going to leave
the word to him, now. He hesitated to take it, but he asked at last with
a mildness that seemed to surprise her, "Have you heard anything from him
since?"

"No."

"Where is he?"

"I don't know. I told him I could not say what he wished; that I must
tell you about it."

The case was less simple than it would once have been for General
Triscoe. There was still his affection for his daughter, his wish for her
happiness, but this had always been subordinate to his sense of his own
interest and comfort, and a question had recently arisen which put his
paternal love and duty in a new light. He was no more explicit with
himself than other men are, and the most which could ever be said of him
without injustice was that in his dependence upon her he would rather
have kept his daughter to himself if she could not have been very
prosperously married. On the other hand, if he disliked the man for whom
she now hardly hid her liking, he was not just then ready to go to
extremes concerning him.

"He was very anxious," she went on, "that you should know just how it
was. He thinks everything of your judgment and--and--opinion." The
general made a consenting noise in his throat. "He said that he did not
wish me to 'whitewash' him to you. He didn't think he had done right; he
didn't excuse himself, or ask you to excuse him unless you could from the
stand-point of a gentleman."

The general made a less consenting noise in his throat, and asked, "How
do you look at it, yourself, Agatha?"

"I don't believe I quite understand it; but Mrs. March--"

"Oh, Mrs. March!" the general snorted.

"--says that Mr. March does not think so badly of it as Mr. Burnamy
does."

"I doubt it. At any rate, I understood March quite differently."

"She says that he thinks he behaved very nobly afterwards when Mr.
Stoller wanted him to help him put a false complexion on it; that it was
all the more difficult for him to do right then, because of his remorse
for what he had done before." As she spoke on she had become more eager.

"There's something in that," the general admitted, with a candor that he
made the most of both to himself and to her. "But I should like to know
what Stoller had to say of it all. Is there anything," he inquired, "any
reason why I need be more explicit about it, just now?"

"N--no. Only, I thought--He thinks so much of your opinion that--if--"

"Oh, he can very well afford to wait. If he values my opinion so highly
he can give me time to make up my mind."

"Of course--"

"And I'm not responsible," the general continued, significantly, "for the
delay altogether. If you had told me this before--Now, I don't know
whether Stoller is still in town."

He was not behaving openly with her; but she had not behaved openly with
him. She owned that to herself, and she got what comfort she could from
his making the affair a question of what Burnamy had done to Stoller
rather than of what Burnamy had said to her, and what she had answered
him. If she was not perfectly clear as to what she wanted to do, or
wished to have happen, there was now time and place in which she could
delay and make sure. The accepted theory of such matters is that people
know their minds from the beginning, and that they do not change them.
But experience seems to contradict this theory, or else people often act
contrary to their convictions and impulses. If the statistics were
accessible, it might be found that many potential engagements hovered in
a doubtful air, and before they touched the earth in actual promise were
dissipated by the play of meteorological chances.

When General Triscoe put down his napkin in rising he said that he would
step round to Pupp's and see if Stoller were still there. But on the way
he stepped up to Mrs. Adding's hotel on the hill, and he came back, after
an interval which he seemed not to have found long, to report rather
casually that Stoller had left Carlsbad the day before. By this time the
fact seemed not to concern Agatha herself very vitally.

He asked if the Marches had left any address with her, and she answered
that they had not. They were going to spend a few days in Nuremberg, and
then push on to Holland for Mr. March's after-cure. There was no
relevance in his question unless it intimated his belief that she was in
confidential correspondence with Mrs. March, and she met this by saying
that she was going to write her in care of their bankers; she asked
whether he wished to send any word.

"No. I understand," he intimated, "that there is nothing at all in the
nature of a--a--an understanding, then, with--"

"No, nothing."

"Hm!" The general waited a moment. Then he ventured, "Do you care to
say--do you wish me to know--how he took it?"

The tears came into the girl's eyes, but she governed herself to say,
"He--he was disappointed."

"He had no right to be disappointed."

It was a question, and she answered: "He thought he had. He said--that he
wouldn't--trouble me any more."

The general did not ask at once, "And you don't know where he is now--you
haven't heard anything from him since?"

Agatha flashed through her tears, "Papa!"

"Oh! I beg your pardon. I think you told me."


PG EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

    Americans are hungrier for royalty than anybody else
    Effort to get on common ground with an inferior
    He buys my poverty and not my will
    Honest selfishness
    Intrepid fancy that they had confronted fate
    Less intrusive than if he had not been there
    Monologue to which the wives of absent-minded men resign
    Only one of them was to be desperate at a time
    Reconciliation with death which nature brings to life at last
    Voting-cattle whom they bought and sold
    We don't seem so much our own property
    We get too much into the hands of other people


THEIR SILVER WEDDING JOURNEY


PART III.


XLVIII.

At the first station where the train stopped, a young German bowed
himself into the compartment with the Marches, and so visibly resisted an
impulse to smoke that March begged him to light his cigarette. In the
talk which this friendly overture led to between them he explained that
he was a railway architect, employed by the government on that line of
road, and was travelling officially. March spoke of Nuremberg; he owned
the sort of surfeit he had suffered from its excessive mediaevalism, and
the young man said it was part of the new imperial patriotism to cherish
the Gothic throughout Germany; no other sort of architecture was
permitted in Nuremberg. But they would find enough classicism at Ansbach,
he promised them, and he entered with sympathetic intelligence into their
wish to see this former capital when March told him they were going to
stop there, in hopes of something typical of the old disjointed Germany
of the petty principalities, the little paternal despotisms now extinct.

As they talked on, partly in German and partly in English, their purpose
in visiting Ansbach appeared to the Marches more meditated than it was.
The expense of the party was great, because D. Acisclo paid all carrying
burning wax with the candle still trails its logo, and on the night
of Holy Thursday, and finished the procession, had dinner with all
the brothers, who were many, meals and fed porridge with beans, cornetillas
spicy garlic chicken dogfish, cod with tomatoes and meatballs, fried
_serafines_ sometimes even then it may seem strange, _serafines_ in that
country are called anchovies, and pestiños delicious dessert
wine and vintage. Also paid generous due to the forties and fifties
who had brought ganapanes shoulders at the walk, and walk in the table,
with Christ, the Apostles and _cuanto God crió_; mammoth undertaking,
many of which were derrengados fierce and blistering, despite the pads.
That night I missed D. Acisclo the still life through the window.

Menuda people smoked at their expense _coraceros_ the best there was
in the shop and took the manor chocolate pastry, empanadas, hornazo,
cakes of various kinds, for example, and polvorón oil and threads of egg
and wine. On any day, any time all that was shown in D. Acisclo was splendid
and wealthy. The courtyard of the house was broad and paved in
marble. At its center wore a cup of marble too, where the water
fell from a clear and copious high spout. Around the fountain were many
potted flowers and fragrant herbs, and some bedding with Bojesen, forming
balls and pyramids, and of climbing roses, jasmine and orange trees lining
the wall and climbed on top of the balconies on the main floor , making
a layer or mantle of flowers, fruits and vegetables, and embalmed the
environment, and with the smell of orange blossom, and the slightest
scent of jasmine and musk. In this garden, as well as a larger garden,
with Honors orchard, which was behind the house, carefully guarded Doña
Luz. Until come flowers and plants, which had never known Villafría and
used acclimated. Took care of no more Doña Luz, not laziness, but because,
as I said D. Acisclo, insist on maintaining that it was as host, and did
not want to get into eleven rods nightgown. Those who ruled everything,
and the real head housekeeper was Mrs. Petra, age fifty years very
satisfied.

She believed in spending diary, and watched the kitchen had the keys
to the pantry, the pastries, the candiotera of the four wineries, wine,
oil, vinegar and brandy, and attics, or barns, where we always had
wheat , barley, arvejones, yeros, matalahúga and other seeds.

In the immediate orders of Mrs.

Petra had four maids, two, zagalonas still hard at work, meat and
tight muscles of steel, which were of the callers _de there casa_
body that it used to scrub, aljofifar, whitewashed and _saltandito_
to have everything clean, and to more Granada, but also girl who
sewed, zurcía and ironing clothes, and cooked it the most pure and
tasty guisotes of the earth, and it did best syrups, set, cakes,
clothes and porridge must.

All these female soldiers lived and slept on the main floor of the house
where the room also had tools, his wife and their four kids, but these,
as far apart, or that they were not understood, but when the master called.
There was finally a guy who was sleeping next to the stables and
took care of him in the yards and pens.

This was domestic servitude, as it were. But it is understood that the day
laborers, the Mulero, landlords, the winemakers, the pisadores the mill
and the other people who are employed in agricultural work, and it came
and went in the house where he had a width on, and still, press, presses
alfarje and olives and grapes. It is, therefore, as is suggested, that
the home owners only lived D. Acisclo Doña Luz and her maid Juana. Thomas,
a former servant of the Marquis, lived in the house with a mozuelo
to help take care and also take care of the black horse beautiful girl.
The house had two tables: one which sat D.

Acisclo and Doña Luz and if he had been invited somewhere, another for
_familia_ (in the Andalusian villages are still called to the
servants _familia_), and on that table sat Mrs. Petra chair, the two
girls from _cuerpo of casa_ The seamstress and press, the cook, the waiter
from the stables, Thomas and his assistant, and Juana, the maiden
lady Doña Luz. The tools and did his ranch and had a separate kitchen
where they cooked the Moruna tools. This did not prevent him or any of
their children, or all, including the tools, but not the son, father,
were often invited to the table of the family, which also sat Mulero
and others when they were in place, to which Mrs Petra and Jane were
awarded the right, and not neglected to exercise, to the invitations
extended to them please. This was the house where he had lived for
twelve years Doña Luz, and that the people that was surrounded in May
1860. IV-The friends of Mrs. Dona Luz Luz, the circumstances in which
it was and the conditions of his character, could not live as he lived.
Pride is certainly bad . How much better and is not Christian humility?
There is much pride in selfishness, while humility is all devotion and
abandonment. And yet, how to deny that pride is well-directed at
times because of high virtues and honest conduct? Either way, we
must not hide the fact that our heroine was very proud. Whoever wrote
this has no hobbies or aristocratic predilections. On the contrary, it has
always been obstinate in believing that no good unless the people of
the places that most encopetada of the court. _Mutatis Mutandis_,
everything looks the same, the wife of a mayor is like a queen or
empress, the clerk of the Duchess equals more fashion in Madrid,
and the majo Fulanito you crave most spirited and gallant, good
horseman, seductor, affable and entertaining, the most perfect
_dandy_ it had known.

But look, this is not democratic spirit discreet black but sobering and
pessimistic. The optimistic and healthy democracy is without doubt in
believing that the best education from early childhood, the good example
and name of parents and grandparents, the obligation not to disgrace
or tarnish the good name and live in more urban and educated to be effective
school and an incentive to be discreet or virtuous, or alluring or worthy
or all at once. In equal measures intellectual and lights must therefore
assert much who owns the external conditions such that anyone who has
not: equal internal, the daughter of a marquis, for example, even if it
is a bastard, you should behave better than the daughter of a
pelafustán.

Understand it by the democratic spirit, it must follow that what is desired
equality and non-climbing down the leveling in ignorance, misery and
abjection, and no grading and elevation possible in all media throughout
that accumulation of resources by past generations, so that with your
help to continue rising well into the light and into the beauty. Veneranda
as I understand, and less than holy, but goes astray in error, the intention
of demagogue, a Democrat and even socialist, which strives to give all
people liberal education, resources, and how many elements are called
aristocrats, if these factors apply not only to enjoy but to be better,
but if you only have to use and weaker, corrupt and ruin, I can not explain
the progressive democracy, but democracy of Rousseau, which seeks to
take back humanity to the savage state. Either way it is, I would not be
here defending this or that opinion. What I write is not a treaty of
political philosophy. Do not attempt to present not doña Luz as a paragon
of excellence, but as it was submitted. Doña Luz deeply human dignity, but
it meant that this clear and distinct feeling that there was more than
in others, no depended only on a natural gift and free, but a
higher education to the general, much more accurate.

This, rather than pride, modesty seems. She believed to have an ideal
of itself that it had been done and bringing out, no doubt thanks
to his energy, but aided by such circumstances and that it should start
to Providence, and that not all but a few are found. Judged, therefore,
as favored by God and therefore with more obligations to fulfill.
For every divine favor, a sacred obligation. I had talent, he was forced
to cultivate, it was beautiful and strong, needed to retain its strength
and beauty, had received an illustrious name, and because it failed to
illustrate further, it should not stain. Although she was considered
equal in nature to other humans, trying all marching in search of
the best and brightest from top height and serene. If she, even if by a
quirk of fate, went ahead and was closer to the summit, his
philanthropy, could not be extended to more than shake hands with
those who were able to climb to where she was, and those who were not so
low or so sunk in the mud rather than alzarlos, it would make it to drag
down in the mud too. We have already indicated that pride is taking care
of Doña Luz and enveloped in the most discreet dissimulation, and
this not only by prudence and self-interest, but by feelings of love
alive. Nothing hurt as much as to humiliate others. If may be pleased to
show off some skill, some pledges of good spirit, a primary or
elegance of his person, was able to feel the stimulus of rising to it
or imitate it, not for the sake of sterile excite admiration or envy
painful. Doña Luz, who therefore had so much pride, I had no spark of
vanity. Like in any payment received as usury. No longed to love her more
than he could love her. The big difference was, therefore, to Doña Luz
vice ignored and almost incomprehensible. Its failure, the actual
sentence that she taught about any quality or act under him, pleased and
flattered the thousands of times more than all the applause of those who
surrounded them. So just wanted to kind of pure pleasure: where there
were a naturalness, a modesty and an apparent neglect of his own merit,
which charmed and Pasman. Other women are yearning always inspire me,
inspire doña Luz fleeing, and implementing an early disappointment,
killed in the whole heart before the naciesen. Why not be loved if you had
to love those who love her?

In love, as in friendship, Doña Luz wanted to double. And not being able
to love in Villafría was slowly away from it all, the young men of the
place, and had chosen his friends among the old. If it was fresh in their
dealings with everyone, as studied using courtesy, that without the
tilde of pride, avoid intimacy with all but four subjects. The first was
D. Miguel, the parish priest, an elderly but excellent scope Cortis,
whom he confessed every month, who gave their ahorrillos for deals on alms
to the needy, and with whom he often played tute. The heart and soul of
Doña Luz were for poor cure the book of seven seals.

In this darkness, and is also D. Miguel lukewarm, I wanted to doña Luz
in moderation, but I wanted with all the force of soul that he
could arrange for the care, which was very small. Doña Luz, however,
idolatrada to cure a certain way. Was happy for that, then clearly,
at that blessed emptiness of his spirit, and mimaba and entertaining
as a child pequeñuelo. By means of a smuggler who came and went with
cotton cloth, was brought from Lisbon to D. Miguel snuff luxury, and
trying not to do wrong, he sent confectionery, biscuits and other sweets,
to the priest was very fond. Another intimate of more importance, was
the doctor D. Anselmo. I say most importantly, it was worth it, not
because you need Doña Luz. Health Doña Luz was insolent good.

Not a headache ever. D. Anselmo despejadísimo was a man, not just
clever and educated in his profession, but several unique ease of reading
and speech. No wonder that with such skill was in a doctor. O fortune
had not smiled, or his genius and indomitable Arisco had objected to that
renaissance. The truth is that person being asserted, had resigned
themselves to live and exercise their power in Villafría. Doña Luz was
delighted D. Anselmo and D. Anselmo Ms Luz. For this there were various
causes. Now they are in fashion _schemas_ can represent the spirits
of the doctor and the lady, as two areas very eccentric, but touching and
committed by one side, where the two were united by the ice,
something which is identical to the human population in the _schema_
of being, the _lenteja_ that krausistas have made so famous.

D. Donna Anselmo and Luz had, therefore, a spiritual lentil pool, which
meant to wonder, leaving the rest of the area of each unknown and
unexplored by the other. So you never know memory; pitfall that often give
understandings related, and that eventually engenders boredom and diversion.
always had these two friends who make incursions in fields and
discoveries, penetrating or attempting to penetrate into each other's
minds. Never gets tired of talking and their conversation was an eternal
dispute. Doña Luz was a believer and spiritualist with his little
mysticism, D. Anselmo, positivist fierce. D. Anselmo was also a chatterbox
seven floors, and loved nothing more than to hear. Only two rested in
their discussions when they were playing chess. They used to play one
or two games a day. Don Anselmo, would already sixty years of age.
D.

Acisclo was widowed and had a daughter of twenty, Morenilla very graceful,
small-bodied, still unmarried, and call Mrs. Manolita alias _The culebrosa_.
The so called for their extraordinary vivacity and mobility. Asserted
in the village that was made and mixed corner of the lizards. Said and
done each time two hundred thousand funny nonsense, but all innocent
and no commitment, so the last name also _The trueno_, but really was
not thunder, but gale of laughter, jokes and happy cheerful speeches,
not least because it was picotera his father. In addition, the depth of
Ms Manolita could not be more excellent. He was loyal, affectionate without
malice and envy, sharp wit, and more judicious and thoughtful in terms
of what it promised its exterior surface and stunning. As Doña Luz was
serious and restrained, Ms Manolita served to complete its modal be.
For this, no doubt, and the other qualities that we have spoken, Dona
Luz made her his companion.

Manolita Queen was the only person in Doña Luz tuteaba Villafría. It is
still not confident in it with total abandon, because Doña Luz was very
reserved, but every day gained more doña Manolita in his heart. Boards
went out to walk walk, went to church together, and together they had
the habit of sitting in chat rooms. Doña Doña Luz Manolita to imitate
in dress and hairstyle, and still coming or where the call. He said it was
her Manolita doña doña Luz for what Galanes for the comedies of the cape
and sword footman funny, and recalling that several of the best comedies
this lackey called Moth, Ms Luz said: "Daughter, I am your Moth. "With
respect to D. Acisclo thought doña Luz as her father and former manager
was not the slightest inquinia because it had risen to almost all the
wealth of their elders. If the Marquis was committed to ruin what it
sinned D. Acisclo? Some moral alambic, Acisclo gift that could not
possibly have saved the interests of the marquis, we would have last another
few years more the splendor of the house, but this request was to ask for
those places in the Gulf cotufas. Enough, then, Ms Luz, to be deeply
grateful to D. Acisclo the firm persuasion that he had, that with any
other manager that way, the ruin of his father had been ten years earlier,
she had not been raised as an elegant lady, in the heart of welfare,
aya English and with all due care. God knows how it was raised and
it would have been the marquis if it is ruined and dies berrenchín,
leaving orphan aged five years and not fifteen. Well liked Doña Luz D.
Acisclo. Sympathetic to their business, with its love of work and
other virtues it resplendent. For the good seem doña Luz had
lived, without any attempt to leave his home in the house of Don
Acisclo until they met twenty-two years. From then onwards, he tried
several times to leave her home to live alone, but D. Acisclo retaining
the smooth and lovely. Dábale understand that it would be just be a pain,
having grown accustomed to his company, and also called, somewhat clumsily,
to what they will say, arguing that doña Luz was young and had no
respect for their camp as old spinster, and that good severe than
would be if I lived alone, had to say it was without _una cow
cencerro_.

Doña Luz, far from offended, laughed this gallant little comparison,
and continued to live in the home of former manager. On the other hand,
the independence of Dona Luz was perfect. Three or four quarters belonged
exclusively at home, and were furnished with taste these. They were
not daily, but the four friends and referrals: Juana Maid, one of the
_cuerpo of casa_, making cleaning under the supervision of Jane, so as
not to break an object of art or fine furniture; and, finally, three other
people, who were also semi - close Doña Luz, who completed or closed and
their family circle. Were these three people take the old servant, and
his squire and guest, when she went on horseback; Uncle Blas, tools of
the lady with whom he was meant to guard their property, which she
managed and improved to iban extent that it produced about 20,000 rs. in
some years of good harvest, and the greyhound Palomo, white
giant in its class, and terrible genius to whom he seemed to upset
or offended that his love, with which was all tenderness, gentleness
and docility.

A more from this company everyday, no doña Luz refused to attend other
wider base. The sons, daughters, daughters-in-law and sons-in-law of Mr
Acisclo by far and large offspring, and their Consuegra Consuegra, compadres
and Wives, with whom he formed a caterva switch was required. All of
them were minor and not very funny, were neither good nor bad, and
Doña Luz miracles of diplomacy did not treat them very much and not angry
either. In the days of the saint's birthday and everyone in the family
of D.

Acisclo had lunch in the patriarchal house, dance and much fuss. Doña Luz
were not excused from attending such functions, and almost always right
pledged to stop all of your kindness and joy.-V-Friendship La Doña
Manolita life of Doña Luz, however, was so regular, so monotonous, so
accident-free days to differentiate from other days, who had spent
years, and the memory of her was as fleeting dream, where everything was
confused. This has to either the spell of peace. Doña Luz had yet to spell
more. The waving his mind with thoughts or desires or passions with
determination, it was odd that the world around them: came from a perfect
world where there's no space or time. So, while Doña Luz, not distinguished
in this from other mortals, not thinking or feeling at the same
time, the causes of their thinking and their feelings were not more
profound point made on our planet, or marking time in the chronology,
the effects were also Sustrai the laws of succession and the place
and it seemed that they were still in an eternity.

I regret not being clear and try to explain in greater simplicity, though
of small diffuse. Doña Luz was not a mystic dreamer, living far from
infinite continuous arroba, saw, understood and appreciated in terms of
it happening in the real world, but the sets and events Villafría
the least interesting, although I saw the fence, which hauls and
events recounted stories and novels, that poetry was right to
introduce or herself fantasize sometimes.

There was not a heart doña Luz lime and singing, but a very
compassionate and loving heart will be hurt by the evil and misfortunes
of others, sought to remedy the consoling at times, and consumed
in this part of their business.

But as his business was great, and very delayed beyond the limits of
Villafría and even extending to an infinite mode, which came to be the
most intimate and essential part of his life, which was not further
affected in Villafría, and, therefore, not anywhere.

Why not she dreamer, dreaming as he lived.
Perhaps the piccolo deserved it, but they would rather not have witnessed
his punishment; his being in a dress-coat seemed to make it also an
indignity.

In the late afternoon they went to the cafe in the old Orangery of the
Schloss for a cup of tea, and found themselves in the company of several
Ansbach ladies who had brought their work, in the evident habit of coming
there every afternoon for their coffee and for a dish of gossip. They
were kind, uncomely, motherly-looking bodies; one of them combed her hair
at the table; and they all sat outside of the cafe with their feet on the
borders of the puddles which had not dried up there in the shade of the
building.

A deep lawn, darkened at its farther edge by the long shadows of trees,
stretched before them with the sunset light on it, and it was all very
quiet and friendly. The tea brought to the Marches was brewed from some
herb apparently of native growth, with bits of what looked like willow
leaves in it, but it was flavored with a clove in each cup, and they sat
contentedly over it and tried to make out what the Ansbach ladies were,
talking about. These had recognized the strangers for Americans, and one
of them explained that Americans spoke the same language as the English
and yet were not quite the same people.

"She differs from the girl in the book-store," said March, translating to
his wife. "Let us get away before she says that we are not so nice as the
English," and they made off toward the avenue of trees beyond the lawn.

There were a few people walking up and down in the alley, making the most
of the moment of dry weather. They saluted one another like
acquaintances, and three clean-shaven, walnut-faced old peasants bowed in
response to March's stare, with a self-respectful civility. They were
yeomen of the region of Ansbach, where the country round about is dotted
with their cottages, and not held in vast homeless tracts by the nobles
as in North Germany.

The Bavarian who had imparted this fact to March at breakfast, not
without a certain tacit pride in it to the disadvantage of the Prussians,
was at the supper table, and was disposed to more talk, which he managed
in a stout, slow English of his own. He said he had never really spoken
English with an English-speaking person before, or at all since he
studied it in school at Munich.

"I should be afraid to put my school-boy German against your English,"
March said, and, when he had understood, the other laughed for pleasure,
and reported the compliment to his wife in their own parlance. "You
Germans certainly beat us in languages."

"Oh, well," he retaliated, "the Americans beat us in some other things,"
and Mrs. March felt that this was but just; she would have liked to
mention a few, but not ungraciously; she and the German lady kept smiling
across the table, and trying detached vocables of their respective
tongues upon each other.

The Bavarian said he lived in Munich still, but was in Ansbach on an
affair of business; he asked March if he were not going to see the
manoeuvres somewhere. Till now the manoeuvres had merely been the
interesting background of their travel; but now, hearing that the Emperor
of Germany, the King of Saxony, the Regent of Bavaria, and the King of
Wurtemberg, the Grand-Dukes of Weimar and Baden, with visiting potentates
of all sorts, and innumerable lesser highhotes, foreign and domestic,
were to be present, Mrs. March resolved that they must go to at least one
of the reviews.

"If you go to Frankfort, you can see the King of Italy too," said the
Bavarian, but he owned that they probably could not get into a hotel
there, and he asked why they should not go to Wurzburg, where they could
see all the sovereigns except the King of Italy.

"Wurzburg? Wurzburg?" March queried of his wife. "Where did we hear of
that place?"

"Isn't it where Burnamy said Mr. Stoller had left his daughters at
school?"

"So it is! And is that on the way to the Rhine?" he asked the Bavarian.

"No, no! Wurzburg is on the Main, about five hours from Ansbach. And it
is a very interesting place. It is where the good wine comes from."

"Oh, yes," said March, and in their rooms his wife got out all their
guides and maps and began to inform herself and to inform him about
Wurzburg. Your errors are not so worse kind, yes, I say, they are also
virtues! They do not weep like a child when one of her accident reports
do not want to always help? Does it not? Is she not worried about moving
their children and they do not sit as recently as Carlitos was sick, day
and night on her bed? If it is not always affectionately against you,
Claire Fort, looks up to you not as a Höhergearteten and shall
reproach, without any murmur Scheltwort opposite?

If it is not without precedent selflessly? Does she ever something for
themselves?

Is not it just always thought of others, of their decisions determined?
Saw you ever such a happy mixture of natural mind and heart? - Yes, she
is carefree, never knew a limitation, knows nothing of substantive
concerns, giebt with full hands, often perhaps foolish - "Here at Fort
Claire broke the speech ends, and by providing him with an eye looking
through an expression of trust and to be maintained to ensure secrecy,
he said: "No, no! Always, always foolish! Immeasurably, friend!

Their waste is boundless. How will this ever be? Among us: If my
wife a few more years so forttreibt, I am ruined.

Well, I was forced to attack my capital. "Teut silent. What he heard
surprised and troubled him to the highest. Involuntarily pushed him to
the idea, why the man, when things were so, his house being his
chumminess not restrict, the countless, mostly superfluous servants
and employees are not dismissed, the charges also in simpler living
conditions would be satisfied with the opportunity to lose, so
thöricht to run a business.

But he was not entitled to pronounce the like, and during his sway Fort
Claire came before him: "I know what you will say to me, Teut,"
he stressed, under the repeated confirmation of his thoughts, the
main moving to.

"You think that I was no less guilty than Ange. We could set up differently
and thereby revenues and expenditures in the correct balance.

Tibet is also pressing me for a year and a day, but then - then - "He
stopped. An inconclusive frightened expression came into his mines, and
only overcome with the words broke from his lips:" See!

You will appear mysterious, "he finally demolished, and in accordance
with pauses, continues."

I love my wife limitless. Then I fear - I fear - that they could alienate
me.

An indescribable fear überfällt me, I might even lose their love -
by a change in circumstances.

I sinne themselves puzzled about what in my soul act. One thousand thoughts
bestürmen me. Often I have thought if they once loved life so - I would
like to receive it - but their happiness is louder sunshine - and then
- then - I would like them to the sky early that would deprive so that
they worry and grief never know. But can a loved one's death wish? That
is inconceivable. I do not know what is in my approach. I want to change
and can not - it certainly can not. The weaknesses that are born of my
love, are bigger than my better insight. "Teut sat silent and looked
to go down, because next to him, the man sighed deeply movement .--
What an insight into the life of a human soul. Full clarity, so full
of impatience and reproach on untenable conditions, and yet from
jealous angst of love too weak to betimes undoubtedly befall an
accident to his wife and his children away?

Once Teut jerked uneasily together, because suddenly, the future
ahead of him.

The ineluctable consequences of such relationships were terribly before
his soul. Perhaps it was in the Fort Claire Chen home a big,
thankless task of the decision, and that self-love, the discomfort of
the encounter and just want to enjoy unmolested, retained the upper hand.
What Shear him at the end of the foreign people, this man with his indecision,
his melancholy and his marital unease to the day this woman living with
her inexperience and her carefree life change? But that was only a quick
temporary emotion. He jumped up, grabbed Claire Forts hands, saying: "
And despite all this must happen, what you see right, dear Claire Fort!
I am ready to help you as far as in my power. Should I even talk with
his wife Ange? "With this offer of drilled a peculiar glance from the
eyes of the Count on the speakers. But fortunately Teut noticed him,
and when the men left after a long battle, that was under the impression
that Claire continued, even powerless to act, the Samaritans on hand
dankbarste've taken. Well because!

Teut was both more underfoot than other people hardly ever; Ange and he
loved the children, who therefore have a right to it had won. He wanted
to act - act like a man, but also as a wise, prudent man! * * * *
* Teut went for hours in his room up and down. Always new thoughts crossed
his brain. Often, he threw in a chair, suggested after his habit, when
something caught him heavily with the hacking of his riding boots
together and vividly emphasized his long blond mustache. The back bone
of his strongly marked face did lean out sharply, and he continually the
glass in his left eye stuck, fall, to put it in the next moment back to
his place to push. If this more recent period Monocle belonging verunziert
not his face, and if he does not rock the hussars had taken, one would
have believed, a knight of earlier times to see. This high, wettergebräunte
and somewhat strongly gefurchte forehead, this sparkling, incredibly
bold eyes, this sarcastic mouth and this halbschlanke, big, strong,
supple body recalled the figure of a warrior past centuries.

"The devil is cunning of history!" he murmured, finally breaking with his
senses, took a box of cigars with severe, inflamed one that swallowed the
smoke and pushed him into a powerful pillar for itself. At that moment
his servant Jamp opened the door and gave the account of a flower vendor
in the amount of a few hundred Thaler. aufgesummte It was the amount for
the frischblühenden bouquets, which invariably Ange every day in their
rooms were. Teut examined pulled the drawer and said the payment
in an ample tip. Now shut the door again, and now were back at Teuts
thoughts Ange. He called the last interview with Claire Fort memory
back and everything, what was previous.

Often it seemed like a dream, which he in the last ten months of
experience, especially that which he himself had experienced. As a
younger officer, shortly before his property his father and his siblings
had been falling, he had a young girl from civic and professional
advertised his marriage plans may have to abandon to him the female
sex had scornfully.

He saw the women now in just a toy, almost less than that now he
was a fort Ange Claire met and loved it, after eight days with a
burning passion.

A few days after the aforementioned conversation he rode out with Ange.
It was a beautiful autumn day, one of those days on which spring
and summer again to the demanding zurückzueilen Earth and all its
beauty mature and mitigated at the same time all over the world
seem auszuströmen.

The sun sparkled in the trees, turning yellow in matte and shiny gold brown
leaves in goldkupfernes metal.

The whole of nature flowed through them with a transparent bright, with a
clarity as if every mote of impure fortgeweht refreshing air, and
when they were themselves herabgestiegen of cool, silent sky heights.

Teut was no man who ever was feeling utterances. He felt everything
fine and good, but it was not in his nature, or it lacked the urge
to him, his feelings into words to translate. Anders Ange. The soft
colors on her cheeks glowed, they sog the air, held since a quarter of an
hour fast dahintrabende horse and threw a questioning glance at her
companion. They had since she left the house, not a word changed. Teut
had never been so dumb as they are today. "Yonder!" he said, pointing
to a little under the trees hidden cottage. He was not, as Ange, his
horse. "Next Ride?" she asked, as if they did not understand him. It
was frustrated with its informal nature, it has often accused had in
quiet. Teut nodded without adding anything. So, they both - Ange in a
somewhat uneasy feeling - the inn. Before the groom could herbeieilen
was Teut herabgesprungen and Ange had lifted from the horse. It was
as if the Christophorus Jesukindlein over the river would carry. As a
soft toy, it stood him in the arm, like a giant and he sat them down.
"Yonder is a magnificent view.

If we want to go?" like he asked and gave her his arm. But they thanked,
the Reitkleid and building up gradually next to him with a left turn,
with trees occupied path. After a few moments they touched a church and
one God. It looked quite desolate there. From the broken iron fence
creepers hung in the colors of autumn, and weeds proliferated on
the graves. Then she climbed a slight hill and up to a limit of oak forest.
Small, short bushes, pushed over the footpath, it was irregular uphill,
downhill. Finally they surrounded the forest and the autumn chill. Here
it shone brightly through the trees, long, wonderful light stripes were
on the green earth. It flickered in the dense shrubbery, as if little
hidden suns hervorzubrechen tried in vain, and once, with a perspective
on the right, they looked into a forsaken, entirely closed, densely
vegetated with grass field, in the solitude a fairytale dream seemed to
be sleeping . But they step further, finally reaching a bank on a range
of oak leaves circumstances hill, and now saw for miles into the
country. It was a gentle rejoice through the blue, clear air. The last
birds chirped, and huge flows threw light on the sunny meadows,
fields and distant woods.

Here and there sparkled strip a picturesque river winding between the
emerging dahingestreckten mats gently, as if the earth suddenly erupted,
and liquid silver looking its trajectory. Ange was urged to express
their delight, but her companion was apparently still just as discontented
before. "In what a bad temper, you have accompanied me today?" lifted
it and set up their lively look at his immovable face. "No!" he
replied. "But I have something on your mind, and here" - he invited
her to the seat - "I am going to say what has always the right moment
has been lacking." The fine ruddiness Anges at most a slight facial pallor.
A half-timid, half impatient expression stole into their faces,
and she grabbed the riding crop of solid.

     But she has overcome and said casually: "Well,
     we sit down and tell me something. But
     nothing, nothing unpleasant nowadays, my dear Teut.
     On another. I'm happy, so take me? Oh, I'm
     happy here in this beautiful
     world. Please! "Teut jerked
     together. Whenever in this tender
     and pleading tone said, he hesitated, her only by a detuning
tadelnden look to it.

How much better understood now than procrastination Claire forts formerly!
This innocence full child with his careless gaiety and joy of his life
appeared to him just like a hand from the creator of the resulting
artwork.

And this pure mirror should dim, even shatter? But once it had happened.
He repeatedly stressed the mustache and finally said: "Dear Mrs. Ange!
Listening to you. I ask you a question in our friendship." Something
very special but it had to be. In Anges face was a helpless expression,
and its own splendor gleamed in her gentle eyes. "I hear!" she
said softly and put his hands together.

"You see, dear Ange - Can I call you so?" He turned to her, she looked
questioningly, and of his noble, masculine facial flew a train of sweet
loving-kindness. And she nodded with a countenance and affirmed with
a gaze as if she was an angel to a sinner about God's forgiveness
brings. "We know now almost a year. Through you my life has almost
completely changed. I had already Farewell all, taken in what is called
the home and family, and myself in the role of an old bachelor into place.
My official employment, dealing with the comrades, to satisfy all
legitimate and unauthorized passions, according to circumstances,
even a piece of unfettered freedom - yes I could quite a free man
and live my affections, but I feel my obligations to my homeland
and my king - enough for me.

Since I saw you, Ange, and why should I deny it - I loved you at our first
meeting and You will love as long as a breath in me. "He saw them
not, while he spoke. emporgeschaut If he had, he would have noticed
that they like dreaming into the country and looked into the distance,
but he would also in their read the face, as she swallowed all his words
and how the past made them tremble. A wet gloss darkened moments their
eyes on stars, and hides her little finger pointed on the eyelashes.

"But because I'm so good - like a brother and dear friend, "rode Teut
continued," I must tell you something, what concerns your happiness. "
And now he spoke in a long speech to them. He censured and comforted,
he called and begged. He told her Carlos' words to that day that they
have clarified their relationships and had a picture of a bleak, perhaps
through its action cope with the future in their eyes meet. Breathlessly
listened to it and shudders.

Welch impending, devastating cloud hung over her unsuspecting main!
After he finished, she sat long silent, and said not a word.

But then out of his mouth penetrated her name: "Dear Ange, dear friend,
be cross with me?"

because they feel overwhelmed and they bowed the head and sobbed. He dared:
he stressed gently on her hair, that he, as if he felt nothing
other than compassion, nothing else would give as a consolation,
and yet he took all his strength for it is not in the eruption of
repressed passion fond to be drawn. * * * * * The next day after
this trip occurred Claire Fort and after Teut table - it was
exceptional today, just three seats, as the children dined earlier
- in the first chamber.

Fort Claire seemed bleaker than ever, it was during the panel, in
which Tibet with his noiseless step serves had almost no syllable
about his lips came and Ange - still under the impression of the
recent interview - well behaved monosyllabic .

The enlightened dull, dark rooms were wallpapered Teut almost before
weird.

Strange looked the marble head of Venus from the darkness appears bleak
and stared him the arabesques of the carpet against the floor covering.
For a while both men sat smoking and no talking, side by side. Each were
words on the tongue, nobody wanted to first speak. Finally soundless
Fort Claire said: "You have spoken yesterday with Ange, Teut?"

The Angeredete nodded, without replying. Claire Fort now repeated his
question. "Yes," said Teut, "I've talked with your wife." "What did
them, please? "Without addressing this question directly to answer Teut
replied:" Has it made you not notice? "" Well - yes and no, you spoke
very incoherently. They hung on my neck, wept and cried: ' I want to
improve, Carlos! " I suspected that this statement from the
interview with you would have emerged.

Gesagt Ange gave me nothing. "Teut listened to .-- How touching! What a
gracious penitence was in these few words, "Good!

So we wait, Fort Claire!" "Yes -" said this stretched and apparently
unsatisfied.

Teut now saw Claire Fort hidden into the eye. A querulousness, nervous
train was lying on his face. Suddenly rose in Teut at an alarming
thought.

Was Claire Fort jealous? What stood before him and offer, if his conjecture
is operated? And at the same time attacked him a dangerous urge to suspect
this to be solved and tackle. He wanted to trust that he wanted for
friendship and devotion, not suspicion, resentment - perhaps far
worse still.

"Claire Fort -!" He pointed through the silence of peinvolle. "Claire
continued, I'm your friend, you had probably never been a sincere
friend!

Do you believe that?" Claire Fort overlooking the rose and looked embarrassed
to Teut. "Yes, dear Teut! Why ask why - you affirm?" The last sentence
came out hesitantly. The words also failed their effect is not as repellent
Teut said: "I affirmed nothing, I just wanted to once, on one
occasion, after you gave me a confidence that is not more than about
his brother turned in similar circumstances, say that you - whatever
that might happen - that must reckon that I am your true friend and
always act as such a will.

Do we now? "" Yes, "nodded Claire Fort, but he seemed far from convinced.
Teut jumped on. He has performed at Fort Claire and grabbed his hand.
"Poor Claire Fort," he said. "I am sorry from the depths of soul,
the more so because I understand what you are afflicted.

But never met a man with another unjust censure. And now a piece
of advice before we distinguish today.

Make it easy for your wife the decisions. Take action, Claire Fort, and
are you a man and a benevolent friend at the same time.

Do you understand? "Fort Claire replied nothing. A deep sigh escaped his
breast. Teut turned on Thür. When he just wanted to leave the room, the
former rose rapidly, Teuts touched shoulder and said quietly: "Sorry,
Teut, I thank you with all my heart!" The memory of this incident had
Teuts thoughts. But no one understood it, and that is why he pondered
back and forth. Ange had explained to him the concerns of her husband
were safe unjustified. Even his mother had lived under the delusion that
she could not do it and be in possession of an unusually large
property was. This would be a disease of all forts Claire. It was
inaccurate, she claimed that the rates were not sufficient to cover
all expenses to provide for themselves. They believe the contrary, to
know that Tibet quarterly surpluses, of which whole families would be
able to live comfortably, to Banquiers wear. Nor have they even a
completely untouched, after her death the children of chance, by
assets, which is sufficient, a family with greater needs to be satisfied.
Nevertheless, they admit, that it was a great effort that they waste a
lot, and that it was sensible all restrictions. She asked Teut, since her
husband money situation, who knows for what reasons, they never
touch, and her auszuforschen him to report. You could, she added,
including Tibet question, but this was always in such locked points.
Moreover, they consider it as not appropriate to subordinates between
herself and her husband to make. At the next meeting between Claire
and Fort Teut took the latter to this point have a question, therefore,
by decisions, because all measures were taken thereafter. If Claire
Fort spoken the truth, had Teut, not half-way to remain focused on immediate
restrictions penetrate, and they could but the way things were, just
out of Ange. At one of the next few days, in which Claire Fort Teut in
the herzlichen met old way, the latter linked to this incident and said:
"You have me, Claire Fort, in your most intimate relationships inaugurated.
I have not asked about the reasons. Either it was the natural consequence
of that urge to take us into serious troubles for the Communication
drives, or you saw your powerlessness and felt the need to help a
friend to use. Just great, you gave me your trust, and I gave you my
word, that to the best assets to justify. Under such circumstances, it
is now but a complete openness absolute necessity. "In Claire Forts
eyes flashed at this address on. A strange tension in his painted
trains, apparently he misinterpreted or overestimated the meaning of the
words. Teut did not understand what Claire Fort disturbed, but more so
he hastened to continue: "One is still in need of enlightenment,"
he said in calm tone, "and I ask my question as an unwarranted
interference to consider.

Ange claimed that you are only an exaggerated concern mastered that
your and their own pensions are so large that large surpluses each year
from the interest that could be back. "" Well, "said Claire Fort,
obviously relieved, but still excited, and in that only the excitation
recent comments Teuts heard schenkend, "I think that we are not children,
it is, as I told you. My word of honor that - which I add, however, only
confirm that the allegation of my wife of mine is currently facing. By the
fall of a Bank House, I have lost large sums of money, so my assets together
is quite extraordinary. The know Ange, I think - "" No, you know
nothing, but good, "said Teut," if that is so, then I will your permission!
"* * * * * Short time to Teut had the opportunity to once again offer
to speak. An incident, which is only too characteristic of it was,
gave this reason.

I'm on my way to the woods
for my after-cure; but I thought I might as well stop and give the girls
a chance; they got a week's vacation, anyway." Stoller glanced at them
with a sort of troubled tenderness in his strong dull face.

"Oh, yes. I understood they were at school here," said March, and he
heard one of them saying, in a sweet, high pipe to his wife:

"Ain't it just splendid? I ha'n't seen anything equal to it since the
Worrld's Fairr." She spoke with a strong contortion of the Western r, and
her sister hastened to put in:

"I don't think it's to be compared with the Worrld's Fairr. But these
German girls, here, just think it's great. It just does me good to laff
at 'em, about it. I like to tell 'em about the electric fountain and the
Courrt of Lionorr when they get to talkin' about the illuminations
they're goun' to have. You goun' out to the parade? You better engage
your carriage right away if you arre. The carrs'll be a perfect jam.
Father's engaged ourrs; he had to pay sixty marrks forr it."

They chattered on without shyness and on as easy terms with a woman of
three times their years as if she had been a girl of their own age; they
willingly took the whole talk to themselves, and had left her quite
outside of it before Stoller turned to her.

"I been telling Mr. March here that you better both come to the parade
with us. I guess my twospanner will hold five; or if it won't, we'll make
it. I don't believe there's a carriage left in Wurzburg; and if you go in
the cars, you'll have to walk three or four miles before you get to the
parade-ground. You think it over," he said to March. "Nobody else is
going to have the places, anyway, and you can say yes at the last minute
just as well as now."

He moved off with his girls, who looked over their shoulders at the
officers as they passed on through the adjoining room.

"My dear!" cried Mrs. March. "Didn't you suppose he classed us with
Burnamy in that business? Why should he be polite to us?"

"Perhaps he wants you to chaperon his daughters. He's probably heard of
your performance at the Kurhaus ball. But he knows that I thought Burnamy
in the wrong. This may be Stoller's way of wiping out an obligation.
Wouldn't you like to go with him?"

"The mere thought of his being in the same town is prostrating. I'd far
rather he hated us; then he would avoid us."

"Well, he doesn't own the town, and if it comes to the worst, perhaps we
can avoid him. Let us go out, anyway, and see if we can't."

"No, no; I'm too tired; but you go. And get all the maps and guides you
can; there's so very little in Baedeker, and almost nothing in that great
hulking Bradshaw of yours; and I'm sure there must be the most
interesting history of Wurzburg. Isn't it strange that we haven't the
slightest association with the name?"

"I've been rummaging in my mind, and I've got hold of an association at
last," said March. "It's beer; a sign in a Sixth Avenue saloon window
Wurzburger Hof-Brau."

"No matter if it is beer. Find some sketch of the history, and we'll try
to get away from the Stollers in it. I pitied those wild girls, too. What
crazy images of the world must fill their empty minds! How their ignorant
thoughts must go whirling out into the unknown! I don't envy their
father. Do hurry back! I shall be thinking about them every instant till
you come."

She said this, but in their own rooms it was so soothing to sit looking
through the long twilight at the lovely landscape that the sort of bruise
given by their encounter with the Stollers had left her consciousness
before March returned. She made him admire first the convent church on a
hill further up the river which exactly balanced the fortress in front of
them, and then she seized upon the little books he had brought, and set
him to exploring the labyrinths of their German, with a mounting
exultation in his discoveries. There was a general guide to the city, and
a special guide, with plans and personal details of the approaching
manoeuvres and the princes who were to figure in them; and there was a
sketch of the local history: a kind of thing that the Germans know how to
write particularly, well, with little gleams of pleasant humor blinking
through it. For the study of this, Mrs. March realized, more and more
passionately, that they were in the very most central and convenient
point, for the history of Wurzburg might be said to have begun with her
prince-bishops, whose rule had begun in the twelfth century, and who had
built, on a forgotten Roman work, the fortress of the Marienburg on that
vineyarded hill over against the Swan Inn. There had of course been
history before that, but 'nothing so clear, nothing so peculiarly swell,
nothing that so united the glory of this world and the next as that of
the prince-bishops. They had made the Marienburg their home, and kept it
against foreign and domestic foes for five hundred years. Shut within its
well-armed walls they had awed the often-turbulent city across the Main;
they had held it against the embattled farmers in the Peasants' War, and
had splendidly lost it to Gustavus Adolphus, and then got it back again
and held it till Napoleon took it from them. He gave it with their flock
to the Bavarians, who in turn briefly yielded it to the Prussians in
1866, and were now in apparently final possession of it.

Before the prince-bishops, Charlemagne and Barbarossa had come and gone,
and since the prince-bishops there had been visiting thrones and kingdoms
enough in the ancient city, which was soon to be illustrated by the
presence of imperial Germany, royal, Wirtemberg and Saxony, grand-ducal
Baden and Weimar, and a surfeit of all the minor potentates among those
who speak the beautiful language of the Ja.

But none of these could dislodge the prince-bishops from that supreme
place which they had at once taken in Mrs. March's fancy. The potentates
were all going to be housed in the vast palace which the prince-bishops
had built themselves in Wurzburg as soon as they found it safe to come
down from their stronghold of Marienburg, and begin to adorn their city,
and to confirm it in its intense fidelity to the Church. Tiepolo had come
up out of Italy to fresco their palace, where he wrought year after year,
in that worldly taste which has somehow come to express the most
sovereign moment of ecclesiasticism. It prevailed so universally in
Wurzburg that it left her with the name of the Rococo City, intrenched in
a period of time equally remote from early Christianity and modern
Protestantism. Out of her sixty thousand souls, only ten thousand are now
of the reformed religion, and these bear about the same relation to the
Catholic spirit of the place that the Gothic architecture bears to the
baroque.

As long as the prince-bishops lasted the Wurzburgers got on very well
with but one newspaper, and perhaps the smallest amount of merrymaking
known outside of the colony of Massachusetts Bay at the same epoch. The
prince-bishops had their finger in everybody's pie, and they portioned
out the cakes and ale, which were made according to formulas of their
own. The distractions were all of a religious character; churches,
convents, monasteries, abounded; ecclesiastical processions and
solemnities were the spectacles that edified if they did not amuse the
devout population.

It seemed to March an ironical outcome of all this spiritual severity
that one of the greatest modern scientific discoveries should have been
made in Wurzburg, and that the Roentgen rays should now be giving her
name a splendor destined to eclipse the glories of her past.

Mrs. March could not allow that they would do so; or at least that the
name of Roentgen would ever lend more lustre to his city than that of
Longfellow's Walther von der Vogelweide. She was no less surprised than
pleased to realize that this friend of the birds was a Wurzburger, and
she said that their first pilgrimage in the morning should be to the
church where he lies buried.


LIII.

March went down to breakfast not quite so early as his wife had planned,
and left her to have her coffee in her room. He got a pleasant table in
the gallery overlooking the river, and he decided that the landscape,
though it now seemed to be rather too much studied from a drop-certain,
had certainly lost nothing of its charm in the clear morning light. The
waiter brought his breakfast, and after a little delay came back with a
card which he insisted was for March. It was not till he put on his
glasses and read the name of Mr. R. M. Kenby that he was able at all to
agree with the waiter, who stood passive at his elbow.

"Well," he said, "why wasn't this card sent up last night?"

The waiter explained that the gentleman had just, given him his card,
after asking March's nationality, and was then breakfasting in the next
room. March caught up his napkin and ran round the partition wall, and
Kenby rose with his napkin and hurried to meet him.

"I thought it must be you," he called out, joyfully, as they struck their
extended hands together, "but so many people look alike, nowadays, that I
don't trust my eyes any more."

Kenby said he had spent the time since they last met partly in Leipsic
and partly in Gotha, where he had amused himself in rubbing up his rusty
German. As soon as he realized that Wurzburg was so near he had slipped
down from Gotha for a glimpse of the manoeuvres. He added that he
supposed March was there to see them, and he asked with a quite
unembarrassed smile if they had met Mr. Adding in Carlsbad, and without
heeding March's answer, he laughed and added: "Of course, I know she must
have told Mrs. March all about it."

March could not deny this; he laughed, too; though in his wife's absence
he felt bound to forbid himself anything more explicit.

Still Wiseli had a reason why it was like to go to school. It was always
in the garden clean by Schreiner Andres pass because it looked
like inside and watched as at the lower hedge again and again the
opportunity to give Andres Carpenter to be seen.

Because it had him a little of the parent orientation, which it had not
been forgotten.

But to go into the house, this was too shy Wiseli. It knew the man well
enough to establish such a step.

Also it had its own kind of afraid of him because he was so quiet
and it just always where he met with friendly, but almost never
anything to him had said.

Since the death of the mother had the carpenter Wiseli Andres never
seen again, how often it also stood at the hedge and after him had
ausgeschaut.

May and June were over and the long summer days had come, because there
on the field more and more work . It was hot. It also noted the Wiseli
if the uncle was hinausgerufen and a large, heavy computing hay or
together with the broad wooden fork again had to throw to make it dry
in the sun. Often it had the whole day outside help, and at night it
was so tired that his arms could hardly move. This would however not
respected, because it thought that it should be. But when it comes around
then in the evening sat quietly for a moment, then called him the
same Chäppi to: "You will be so good to have bills like me.

You mean you need do nothing, and at school you can never know
anything.

"That did hurt the Wiseli, because it would have liked everything diligently
learned and would like regularly went to school, so that everything could
understand and learn. And it knew quite well that it was almost back.
It had so often break and then had no connection, not even knowing what
tasks were to make.

If there is no homework then went to school and to clumsily answered and
many do not know, it is very ashamed -- especially if the teacher before
him then all the children said: "That I would not expect from you, Wiseli,
you were always the brightest." Then it is often said that we should sink
into the ground before the shame, and afterwards it was crying throughout
the home.

Chäppi But that could not answer it, it does not know what to do it.

Otherwise, he railed and noise until my aunt came and Chäppis accusations
that the Wiseli certainly his alleged negligence. Then the child is
sometimes suppressed his tears, and only afterwards on his cushions
they had free rein. And then they came hot and heavy, because it was him
as if God and the mother is completely forgotten and nobody in the
world to care for his life.

In his grief, it could often be long consolation song not say . It came
to rest and none could never fall asleep until it is right the words
together and had prayer with them can tell him where the good is not quite
confident in the heart wanted to work out. Wiseli Sun was also asleep
on a beautiful July evening and in the morning that it was timid on the
bottom of the table, than the boys to school war. It dared not to ask
whether it should go, because the aunt seemed no time to respond to, and
the uncle had already left the house.

Now the boys ran away. Wiseli looked after them through the open window,
where they are between the high meadow flowers hinsprangen and
over their heads, the white butterflies in the morning sun umherflogen.
The aunt had prepared a large laundry. It was probably this week
on Waschtrog spend?

True, she called after him from the kitchen. Now called the uncle
after Wiseli. He stood at the well and saw it at the window. "Do, do,
Wiseli, it's time, the boys are so far ahead. The hay is inside, do that
you come to school!" It was not twice Wiseli say. Like a flash it covered
with his school bag and ran out the door. "Tell the teacher," cried the
uncle after him, "you have been a long time now not missing. He
should not accept as accurate, we have a lot to do with the hay had to
be done ". Wiseli ran happily away. So it was not at the Waschtrog sure
it was the whole week going to school. How was it beautiful all around!
Of all the trees whistled the birds, and smelled the grass and the sun
glowed red and yellow daisy flowers butter. Wiseli could not stop,
there was no time to do so.

But it felt, how beautiful the landscape was full of joy, and ran through
the middle. On the same evening, just as all children from the school
room muffled in the evening sun slip beyond stürmen wanted, said
the teachers in the fracas into it: "Who has this week order service
"" The Otto, Otto!

" cried the whole crowd and stormed away. "Otto," said the teacher in a
serious tone, "yesterday is not been cleaned up. Once I will
forgive you. But let me not see twice, otherwise I would have to punish
you. Otto looked for a moment on all the nutshell, and scraps of paper
and Apfelschnitze on the ground and herumlagen aufgelesen should be. Then
he hastily turned his head and ran away also, because the teacher had
already gone through his door. Otto stood outside on the sunny
square, looked in the golden evening, and thought out : Now I
could go home, and then I got the cap full of cherries. And then I could
go on the brown riding out into the field when the hay gets bondage, and
now I will be there on the floor together scraps of paper to read? And
Otto by his thoughts so excited that he is very fierce against himself,
said: "I wanted, it would just now the last day, and the schoolhouse
and everything flöge into a thousand pieces in the air." It was all around
but still and quiet, and the terminating all earthquakes were no signs
there. Since Otto is finally returned back to the school, with the angry
face, because he knew, in the sour apple now had to be bitten. Or tomorrow
followed by the humiliating punishment of the seat. He came, but the
first step, he remained puzzled stand. was completely cleaned up the school
room before him, no and no Fetzchen mote nowhere to be seen. The windows
were open, and the evening air poured into the office to clean it. At the
moment the teacher came out of his room and looked surprised at himself
and at Otto, who stood there with big eyes.

Then he went to the boy, encouraging, and said: "You can really work your
anstaunen that I would not trust you. You're a good student, but in
cleaning up has surpassed all of you today, what else to you was not
the case. "Thus, the teacher continued, and when Otto with a last
glance was convinced that he is the reality in front of you saw, he jumped
for joy in two sentences the down stairs and through the space. He
stormed the mountain slope, and only when given to the mother informed
the wonderful event, he began to consider how it could have taken place.
"By mistake is probably not for you have cleaned up," said the mother.
"Hast thou a good friend, who so nobly aufopfert for you? Denk
but once, as it could be. "" I know it, "said Miezchen decided that had
been listening eagerly." Who was it? "Cried Otto, partly curious, partly
in disbelief." The Mauser, Hans, "said Miezchen with with conviction,
"because you have him a year ago have given an apple." "Yes, or the
William Tell, because I have him his not have taken a few years ago. It
would be equally likely, by a miracle you pussy. "Thus Otto ran it, because
now it's high time for the ride if he does not miss the hay wanted. Wiseli
Meanwhile jumped the fun with the heart down the hill, past Schreiner
Andres' garden. Then it suddenly turns and ran back, because it was in
passing and running so beautiful, red carnations seen in the garden,
which had to watch it again, even if it is already a little late.

It is thought the boys come I have to, make the first by all means still
pushing ball. The carnations glowed in the evening sun so beautiful and
so wonderful perfume on the hedge across the lower Wiseli, note that
there are almost no longer wanted the place, so well liked it da.

Then all at once of the carpenter Andres from his door out into the
garden and came to the Wiseli too. He gave his hand on the hedge and he
said kindly. "Will you have a carnation, Wiseli?" "Yes, like" ,
it replied, "and then I will also be something from the mother." "From
the mother?" asked the carpenter Andres surprised and left the cloves out
of the hands fall, which he had just canceled. Wiseli jumped to the hedge
around and read them. Then there was the man who stood quite still,
and said: "Yes, even to last as the mother wants nothing more, she of the
good juice drink that you put in the kitchen have. And he has it tasted
so good, and then they applied to me, I will tell you, they
thank you very much for this and also for all the best. And yet
she said: 'He is good with me meant'.

"Wiseli now looked like carpenters Andres large tears on the cheeks
hinunterliefen. He wanted to say something, but nothing came out.
Then he pressed the hand firmly Wiseli , turned away and went into
the house inside. Wiseli That was quite surprised there. No man had cried
to his mother, and it had only himself to cry, if nobody saw it.

Because his uncle wanted to, after all, not yelling, he said, and before
the aunt had it much less cry. And now, once someone was on there, the
tears came, because it is something of the mother had said. The Wiseli
was it felt as if the carpenter Andres his dearest friend in the world,
and it took a great love for him. Now it ran with its carnations them
and was like lightning on Buchenrain arrived. And that was good because
it just looked like the two boys to the house supply, and it could not
order everything at home after they arrive. This evening Wiseli prayed
with the heart so happy that it did not understand how it yesterday so
despondent could be, and had no confidence and joy had had his song
to say. God had certainly not forgotten that it no longer wanted to
think. Today, he had him so much joy, and falling asleep Wiseli
still saw the good face of the carpenter Andres ahead with the tears
of it. On the following day, it was now Wednesday, Otto saw the same
surprise as the day before because he did not contain, with the others
from the school office hinauszurennen in the first moment of liberation.
When he then wanted to go to work and the door aufmachte - because
everything was already done and the room in good order. Now the thing
began to excite his curiosity. Also, he was the unknown benefactor so
thankful that it pushed him to this. On Thursday he wanted to watch, as
the case receives. When the school hours on end, and everything fortlief,
Otto stood thoughtfully for a moment in his place. He did not know
quite where he best fits with the benefactor could waylay. But with
einemmal took him a sprightly crowd of guys, his class fellow, at all
corners, and the voices cried out in confusion: "Come out! Out with you!
We will make robber, you are the leader." Otto fought a little. "I must
indeed make policy this week," he cried.

"Oh, what," she replied, "because a quarter of an hour. Come!" Otto had
continued tear, in the silence he relied a bit on his unknown
friend, him from the punishment would protect.

He thought it was unspeakably pleasant to make such care to have
in the back. For the quarter was more than an hour, and Otto would have
been lost. He ran panting back to the school office to be his fate, and
pushed the door with such a clatter, that the teacher immediately
from his office came into the classroom.

"What hast thou willed, Otto?" asked the teacher.

"Only once more to see," Otto stuttered, "well sure whether everything
was in order." "model prison," said the teacher. "Your zeal is
commendable, but the doors are half-suit is not necessary." Cheerful
Otto went away. On Friday, he was determined not to stain the clear,
until he was in the clear, because there came to him only the
Saturday morning.

There was admittedly still high order made. "Otto" cried the teacher,
as the bell on Friday four clock beat, "the contract to me quickly slip
to the Lord's priest, he gives you back books.

In five minutes you're back to Cleanup. "That was not quite right Otto, but
he had to go. Moreover, he could so the same again. In little jumps,
he was in the parsonage. The Lord pastor talked with anyone yet. The
woman cried Pastor Otto in his garden, he had reported her as the mom and
the dad go and Miezchen and uncle Max and relatives in Germany. And
then came the Lord pastor, and Otto had to explain how he came to the
mission was and what his teachers have said otherwise.

Otto then finally had his books, and arrow, he was quickly over,
tore the door of the school room to - everything is in order, everything
stopped, no human beings to see. Now I have the whole week not a single
time since the gruesome Tatters have to bend over, "thought Otto
satisfied.

But who has the terrible job done, without that he had? That he now
wanted to know any price. On Saturday, the school hours at eleven clock
to an end.

Otto had all the children go, and now as the school room was empty, he
appeared in front of the door, closed it and leaned with his back
on it.

So he certainly had to see if someone would go, because he wanted so
rather than start with the heavy work. He stood and stood - there
was nobody. He heard the clock half past eleven beat - there was nobody.
In the afternoon, but stood before a trip, this morning it should be eaten
for lunch. It should be as fast as possible home.

He therefore had to enter to work, it grauste him. He opened the door
- da - Otto snatched more than the first time on the eyes - really,
everything was done better than ever.

The Otto was quite peculiar feast. Whether any ghosts because their
hands were in the game? Very quiet, never otherwise, he slipped out the
door. Precisely at this moment came as quiet a bit from the teacher
geschlichen kitchen, and at once stood near the Wiseli before him. Both
traveled together before horrors, and the Wiseli was so red, as if the
petrol at a wrong erwischt. Now it was a light on.
They met detachments of soldiers everywhere, infantry,
artillery, cavalry.

"This is going to be a great show," Kenby said, meaning the manoeuvres,
and he added, as if now he had kept away from the subject long enough and
had a right to recur to it, at least indirectly, "I should like to have
Rose see it, and get his impressions."

"I've an idea he wouldn't approve of it. His mother says his mind is
turning more and more to philanthropy."

Kenby could not forego such a chance to speak of Mrs. Adding. "It's one
of the prettiest things to see how she understands Rose. It's charming to
see them together. She wouldn't have half the attraction without him."

"Oh, yes," March assented. He had often wondered how a man wishing to
marry a widow managed with the idea of her children by another marriage;
but if Kenby was honest; it was much simpler than he had supposed. He
could not say this to him, however, and in a certain embarrassment he had
with the conjecture in his presence he attempted a diversion. "We're
promised something at the Volksfest which will be a great novelty to us
as Americans. Our driver told us this morning that one of the houses
there was built entirely of wood."

When they reached the grounds of the Volksfest, this civil feature of the
great military event at hand, which the Marches had found largely set
forth in the programme of the parade, did not fully keep the glowing
promises made for it; in fact it could not easily have done so. It was in
a pleasant neighborhood of new villas such as form the modern quarter of
every German city, and the Volksfest was even more unfinished than its
environment. It was not yet enclosed by the fence which was to hide its
wonders from the non-paying public, but March and Kenby went in through
an archway where the gate-money was as effectually collected from them as
if they were barred every other entrance.

The wooden building was easily distinguishable from the other edifices
because these were tents and booths still less substantial. They did not
make out its function, but of the others four sheltered merry-go-rounds,
four were beer-gardens, four were restaurants, and the rest were devoted
to amusements of the usual country-fair type. Apparently they had little
attraction for country people. The Americans met few peasants in the
grounds, and neither at the Edison kinematograph, where they refreshed
their patriotism with some scenes of their native life, nor at the little
theatre where they saw the sports of the arena revived, in the wrestle of
a woman with a bear, did any of the people except tradesmen and artisans
seem to be taking part in the festival expression of the popular
pleasure.

The woman, who finally threw the bear, whether by slight, or by main
strength, or by a previous understanding with him, was a slender
creature, pathetically small and not altogether plain; and March as they
walked away lapsed into a pensive muse upon her strange employ. He
wondered how she came to take it up, and whether she began with the bear
when they were both very young, and she could easily throw him.

"Well, women have a great deal more strength than we suppose," Kenby
began with a philosophical air that gave March the hope of some rational
conversation. Then his eye glazed with a far-off look, and a doting smile
came into his face. "When we went through the Dresden gallery together,
Rose and I were perfectly used up at the end of an hour, but his mother
kept on as long as there was anything to see, and came away as fresh as a
peach."

Then March saw that it was useless to expect anything different from him,
and he let him talk on about Mrs. Adding all the rest of the way back to
the hotel. Kenby seemed only to have begun when they reached the door,
and wanted to continue the subject in the reading-room.

March pleaded his wish to find how his wife had got through the
afternoon, and he escaped to her. He would have told her now that Kenby
was in the house, but he was really so sick of the fact himself that he
could not speak of it at once, and he let her go on celebrating all she
had seen from the window since she had waked from her long nap. She said
she could never be glad enough that they had come just at that time.
Soldiers had been going by the whole afternoon, and that made it so
feudal.

"Yes," he assented. "But aren't you coming up to the station with me to
see the Prince-Regent arrive? He's due at seven, you know."

"I declare I had forgotten all about it. No, I'm not equal to it. They
laughed, and she struts, Kußhände zuwerfend him and behind him looking
as if they consider their train, away. He then bowed and melancholy the
main withdrew back into his chambers. Often it's as if the tough soldier
in front of the children's noise and the bad habit of his exuberant
surroundings flee, as if every nerve in his sugar, his peace and
solitude alone wohlthue.

In That the forts had Claire Herzeleid learn a lot.

They lost both their parents early on and were without relatives in the
world. Rittmeister Des Stammvorfahr, a Frenchman, was to Germany
übergesiedelt to his wife, a Rheinländerin to follow, and Butin, albeit
in living memory in German Gauen resident came also of French blood. Just
as Claire continued to stand-alone, bleeding young baroness stopped by
Butin, died in her former guardian, and this prompted the later
Mündigwerdende the landowner to sell the revenue they brought her
husband as a dowry in the marriage. Claire forts had their visits, and
received such . It took very much for them, that their visits not to
make limited and narrow circle in which the remaining families
wrong, they also gave their cards in the prestigious inhabitants
of the city and delighted by their kindness all over the world with
which they came into contact.

Especially developed lively but the traffic between the unmarried officers
of the garrison and the Neuangekommenen. After a few weeks they were
almost daily visitors to the villa, in a breakfast table is always
ready and stood in the man - also unannounced - always an excellent
board with excellent wines found. It took everything, as if by magic
created, and yet it was the worst Ange housewife. But Ernst Tibet, valet,
took care of everything. The majordomo was a model man. So restless and a
little cautious, so incomparably vivid and the Countess, as well as
serious, prudent and reliable Tibet was, a man with congenital polite
courtesy and dignity at the same time. "Tibet, the best gold Tibet what
we start?

Eben ten people have been announced ! The clock is two! At five, we
want to eat! "" There is everything to your liking to Gräfin woman,
"replied Tibet, bowed and goes after his work. And if Tibet says, I can
collapse a small world but if they do not collapses, everything is at the
minute, as he promised. Strangely also grieved the count is not around
the house, even to little children, neither to his beautiful Ange.
We often wondered what his deal, for which he is interested in the
ideas behind his high forehead and moving like. Nobody could be a
suitable answer. It remained to him except his official employment still
a lot of time, but found him not often read nor write. He mostly sat
back in an old Erbstuhl of the fifteenth century, who stood before his
desk, dusty books and the many small Nippesgegenstände from smoke,
probably once stood up, grabbed, like a pain to capture, at the head,
looked blooming in the garden and further mused about something that
nobody could understand. Tibet was every day an hour, often longer with
him. He presented calculations that took instructions, received money,
was such, was probably also write letters, telegrams and deliver courses
to which he never gave advice. Tibet was, all in all, including the
Count, and nobody came to this as politely as his valet, when he also
to him the forms were set aside. Among the officers in the Fort Claire's
wrong house, was a captain with the names of Teut. All the world was
amazed that this particular family abholde traffic, only his service
to the equestrian, hunting and strong banquet inclined, no more young
men the house of the Count had visited. Ange was the assessment
was. At a dinner, which the colonel had forced him to deal with her
company, dismissed him after joking that she by her great grandfather
had used a little, and tied him to such an extent that he go home to his
surroundings in the words broke out: "Beautiful as a rose, like a
clever horse, like a naive child, also a lady - a perfect creature!"

From Teut was a strange, unpredictable man in traffic, but after matching
judgment gentleman from top to sole. His wealth allowed him to exercise
the most expensive hobbies. These were mainly hunting and horses. And
that fact alone was enough to Ange Claire continued to approach. Often,
he suggested starting a little, was intolerance of its environment, and
if it whim or heart urge drove, he gave large sums of money. So he once
had a waiter at the casino, which is self-employed and wanted to marry,
a not insignificant capital loans as on leave, and as the first citizen
of the world seemed small, and that invited him as a godfather, he
sent him the receipted promissory notes and wrote below: "Axel of
Teut sends Axel Dorn these Patengabe and hopes that he used to be a good
citizen, and - is time and opportunity - even a loyal soldier to
be king.

"When this became known, was Teut overwhelmed with petitions. Because one
day you read in the newspaper: "From now I leave all Bitt and begging
letters uneröffnet back. It saves the trouble is, anyone who thinks I
Seeding's not them, it is mistaken.

Such an exercise, as I do, makes learn .

Baron von Teut-Eder, captain and Eskadronschef. "* * * * * When Colonel
was a great Fête announced.

Ange also began today, with their toilet at a time when the other women
already the gloves and the buttons scarf around the hair wrap. Claire
knew the fort, since it the nice lady from the Jawort Butin, and
that he bore with that resignation, either a strong self-control
arises or which are last in the inevitable must add powerless.

"Ange, are you ready? Since a quarter of an hour waiting for the car! "
cried the captain, and knocked impatiently at the Thür.

"Right, right, best Carlos!" Ange coaxed back flits admittedly only at
this moment from her house dress, and hid, because they are the
restless and downs of her angry tyrant heard at a moment the head through
the opening to make it with one of her charming looks calm. The chamber,
Given what their toilet made possible regarding the hasty and the
colorful jumble Ankleidegemach a stage artist. Here drawers were opened,
in which objects were thrown wildly in confusion, then lying on
sofa and chairs ball dresses and lace skirts.

A few minutes had hingereicht to here and in the lockers a hopelessly
confused to.

But it was always lively, restless and the time schedule mocking woman
in her appearance the same irritant. Where was the artist to complete
this finely with the deep head on the shoulders fallen hair silk painting,
these delicate, in the forms completed in abundance, this lovely white
neck, arms, hands, but mainly these truly enchanting body growth, with
its carry lines?

In haste, with the tender hands of the toilet or put their environment
anwies, röteten their cheeks, fine nose, wings and vibrated their
children plucking hands, pulled at the buttons and transparent robes
spitze occupied around, as if one thousand restless spark poured
out of their fingers.

While her hair was braided, she sat before Trumeau, opened his mouth, looked
with childlike curiosity untadelhaften the ranks of the pink hervorschimmernden
teeth and laughed in the mirror inside or bowed with quiet outcry the
head before unskilful stroke of the comb in the unruly hair. And it also
appeared feet, the earlier a child, and which now by the Virgin clothed
with silk shoes were. When Ange finally also in the precious peach-colored
dress was fixed, as they progressively through the room and a decent
drag queen behind her herrauschte when finally all the pearls and
diamonds in her hair and on her chest, the flashing Agraffen
attached to the substances were the servants saw themselves inside
with a look of admiration on the work of art, which arose in her
hands.

"Where's good? Is the waist? " asked Ange naive, and a happy smile on her
face flew than those vividly confirmed what they wanted to hear.

"Ange, Ange!" knocked it again. "The clock is half past nine, and you're
not yet -" "I'm ready, ready for long, Carlos! Yes I'm waiting for
you!"

she cried, the women winked at her innocent smile and lie opened
the Thür.

But now came the children, who really should be in bed. Jorinde wept
and Ben stood there sullenly. Several requests have been loud. "Certainly,
certainly, be calm, my favorite!

Yes, yes, Carlitos! - Ah, my perfume bottles and boxes, Maria! - Like
what? Yes, right!"

She ran away and sought in any drawer after the sweets and delicacies,
with which they impatient crowd to calm the habit. "Take the train, Rosa!
- I come, I come, Carlos, just go ahead!"

Now the children had once again be embraced and kissed.

A glove was abgesprungen button, even when a seam ripped hurriedly
dressing. "Quick another pair! In the left drawer! Flesh-colored, Maria,
flesh-colored! Can you hear?" Ange hurried down. "Finally!" said Carlos.
"Forward!"

The servant, the hand on Hute, hit the car and swung to the buck. "Halt!
Halt - even for a moment!" Ange cried impetuously and knocked on the
windows. The maiden was breathless with the gloves. "At the command,
Mrs Countess!" So, now finally raced the car with the Count and
employees thereof, and the servants turned back into the house. In the
hallway, on the stairs still blew the smell of their garments. In all the
rooms were burning candelabra - everywhere the traces of their
lively agitation.

The children sulked that they are now, less considerate encouraged than
before, were driven into the bed: and into the hot, humid, perfume filled
the dressing mistress in which half a dozen gold and silver candlesticks
were lit, in which the open jewelry box lagging behind all its glories
and carelessly umherstanden in the air, a beautiful, elegant woman
ausatmet, like an invisible touch the objects seemed to be wrapped, the
women came to see everything in its place to bring silent .-- Involuntarily
the loud conversation in the halls, involuntarily joined the ranks of
the guests and also had involuntarily jealous women look upwards, as the
Countess fort Ange by Claire on the side of her husband, the rooms
in the house of the Supreme entered. It giebt women whose appearance
in the society acts as if suddenly a swan's wings with a loud blow
vorüberrauscht. Ange was surrounded after a few minutes and
umschwirrt half of the society.

No, the whole of society! For those who are not approached her, not only
found the courage, the beautiful, radiant woman express what they felt
in their sight. Always carries the timid society, they will never disappear,
they remain the same and children who only after repeated stimulation
of one hand. Ange heard that you just have to wait on them. They called
a regretful "O! O!" flits to the wife of the Supreme and placed it by the
charming nature of their apology quickly lower the company restores
mood.

And since it is scattering the first dance and had not been awarded to
their joyful surprise noticed they slipped through the pressing and
arranging couples to the host and gently put his arm in his. "Madam?"
"The first dance, I have probably a dutzendmal amputated, Mr. Colonel,
because I did for you had. O, I beg, no Refus! There is a Polonaise.
" they flattered and just quietly pulled the reluctant with them.
Rares Ange is mixed into the ranks of dancing, without any pause couples
watched her. You had to watch, because a grace seemed to be mixed among
the people to have. Nothing could give graceful as a waltz dancing to
see if her own, half embarrassed, half-happy smile through the soft
lines and it flew head tilted to the side.

It was this reluctance, as an allusion that they were in any mood of
her dancer add, but just below the constraint, it allows the waist to
cover. Once they have removed from the arm of her gentlemen had resolved
almost vanished these girls like shyness, and her lively temperament
snatched it away again.

They are talking, laughing, and showed a mischievous face, she
nodded and listened with inquisitive attention. At dinner again directed
all eyes on supply. A delicate pallor was on her face underfoot. The
distance of the beautiful dark eyes and eyebrows against the gold of
her silk blond hair seemed beside the silken mat on the cutting with real
white lace dress occupied so surprisingly beautiful that we look not
managed to contact her.

And it sparkled and flashed the stones on the neck and ears, and often
a true drizzle trembled from the diamond, which was adorned her head.
People felt honored and happy if they offer with their eyes
treublickenden installations, and their modesty made it is impossible
that ugly emotions of envy rose up beside her.

After lifting of the table after the champagne supply in a very
happy, only by the desire had dominated child turns as the first
bars of a stormy Galopps Saale herüberklangen, they considered it
not more of the hosts, and with his forgiveness ensure entschlüpfte
they look to a younger gentleman to follow. once tore a pearl string,
and the precious treasures rolled under the dance ends.

A small fortune was at stake, however, Ange smiled apologetically and
took with thanks contrary, what zealous seekers had found her and
presented.

Repeatedly urged the captain to leave.

But the officers umstürmten the lovely woman, and she asked how a young
girl, who first visited the ball to postponement. While they davoneilte,
she looked him over her shoulder and picked up by pleading glances
his subsequent Jawort On.

And when they finally returned, and he ripped the tops of the train
considering, kopfschüttelnd dreinschaute, she quickly touched on his
gloves from the calming, leaned with one: "Do not scold! Well be!

Carlitos, please!"

to him and begged until he agrees with it nor the little pause which
was cool.

The motion was dancing her hair relaxed a little and a fine hair
on the forehead, like some beautiful roses, which sat on her chest
and a sparkling diamond enclosed, had entblättert.

Your breath glowed, her breasts lifted and lowered under the delicate
silk, and while the fan was in violent motion, they tended the body
with the elastic bending, which makes women so seductive.

She rose as if she were going to begin at once, in spite of his laughing;
and in fact she had already a plan for coming to Stoller's assistance by
getting at Burnamy through Miss Triscoe, whom she suspected of knowing
where he was. There had been no chance for them to speak of him either
that morning or the evening before, and after a great deal of controversy
with herself in her husband's presence she decided to wait till they came
naturally together the next morning for the walk to the Capuchin Church
on the hill beyond the river, which they had agreed to take. She could
not keep from writing a note to Miss Triscoe begging her to be sure to
come, and hinting that she had something very important to speak of.

She was not sure but she had been rather silly to do this, but when they
met the girl confessed that she had thought of giving up the walk, and
might not have come except for Mrs. March's note. She had come with Rose,
and had left him below with March; Mrs. Adding was coming later with
Kenby and General Triscoe.

Mrs. March lost no time in telling her the great news; and if she had
been in doubt before of the girl's feeling for Burnamy she was now in
none. She had the pleasure of seeing her flush with hope, and then the
pain which was also a pleasure, of seeing her blanch with dismay.

"I don't know where he is, Mrs. March. I haven't heard a word from him
since that night in Carlsbad. I expected--I didn't know but you--"

Mrs. March shook her head. She treated the fact skillfully as something
to be regretted simply because it would be such a relief to Burnamy to
know how Mr. Stoller now felt. Of course they could reach him somehow;
you could always get letters to people in Europe, in the end; and, in
fact, it was altogether probable that he was that very instant in
Wurzburg; for if the New York-Paris Chronicle had wanted him to write up
the Wagner operas, it would certainly want him to write up the
manoeuvres. She established his presence in Wurzburg by such an
irrefragable chain of reasoning that, at a knock outside, she was just
able to kelp back a scream, while she ran to open the door. It was not
Burnamy, as in compliance with every nerve it ought to have been, but her
husband, who tried to justify his presence by saying that they were all
waiting for her and Miss Triscoe, and asked when they were coming.

She frowned him silent, and then shut herself outside with him long
enough to whisper, "Say she's got a headache, or anything you please; but
don't stop talking here with me, or I shall go wild." She then shut
herself in again, with the effect of holding him accountable for the
whole affair.


LVI.

General Triscoe could not keep his irritation, at hearing that his
daughter was not coming, out of the excuses he made to Mrs. Adding; he
said again and again that it must seem like a discourtesy to her. She
gayly disclaimed any such notion; she would not hear of putting off their
excursion to another day; it had been raining just long enough to give
them a reasonable hope of a few hours' drought, and they might not have
another dry spell for weeks. She slipped off her jacket after they
started, and gave it to Kenby, but she let General Triscoe hold her
umbrella over her, while he limped beside her. She seemed to March, as he
followed with Rose, to be playing the two men off against each other,
with an ease which he wished his wife could be there to see, and to judge
aright.

They crossed by the Old Bridge, which is of the earliest years of the
seventh century, between rows of saints whose statues surmount the piers.
Some are bishops as well as saints; one must have been at Rome in his
day, for he wore his long thick beard in the fashion of Michelangelo's
Moses. Hans Wurst. As it has arched windows as transparent as grids, and
innwendigen stones against the South side are so shiny like ebony wood,
and you complain about darkness? Malvolio. I'm not that great, Sir
Topas; I tell you, it is dark in the house. Hans Wurst. Toll Häusler,
you cheat yourself, I tell you, it does not giebt andre darkness than
ignorance, and in this you Stek deeper than Egypt in their mud. Malvolio.
And I say, this house is as dark as ignorance, though ignorance
as dark as hell would, and I say never be an honest man so badly mitgespielt
been, I am no longer furious as their own, making the test with
me, ask me something gescheidtes what you want, and see if I will
not answer you, how's heard.

Hans Wurst. What Pythagoras down the subject into the wild fowl? Malvolio.
leichtlich The fact that it could meet that the soul of our grandmother
lived in a woodcock. Hans Wurst . What do you think of this Meynung?
Malvolio. I think of the noble soul, and these cheap Meynung no.
Hans Wurst. posturing you well: Stay always in the darkness, you must
the Meynung of Pythagoras, if I allow you to be you want your five
senses habest, and make you afraid to shoot a Schneppe of concerns you
want the soul of your grandmother from her home sell. Farewell. Malvolio.
Sir Topas, Sir Topas - Sir Tobias. Allerliebst The Sir Topas! Hans Wurst.
Gelt, I send myself to all the roles? Mary. You should have it all without
a beard and Priesterrok tuna can and he sees you do not . (This
explains Sir Tobias, that he had this game after just weary of
sey, and the same all the more so a decent end to hope, because he
and his niece decay sey.

It is therefore with Mary, to be informed of his room with her to berathen,
and lets Wursten Hans Bey Malvolio back of this in the) Fourth Scene
(his own person again assuming, and after a while the fool with him driven
to finally ask him is paper, pen, Dinter and a light bring.)

Fifth Scene.

(An andres Olivias room in the house.) Sebastian (allein.) Diss is the Air,
DISS is the shining sun, this pearl she gave me, I feel them and
see them, and although everything around me louder miracle, it is
not Wahnwiz.

Where is Antonio? I had him in the elephants do not find everything I
could find was that he had expected and again sey me anywhere in
the city reside.

His Rath could me the bigger IZT service thun - Because even though my
reason against my senses claims that everything DISS any Irrthum
Seyn could, without any fantasies or Seyn be madness, but this is
so random and so extraordinary as Glük far beyond anything you can
imagine, or what ever has been heard, that I'm ready, a distrust
in my own eyes Sezen, and my reason to fight if they want me bereden,
there's something else to think than that I sey toll or that there
is this young lady sey, and yet when the last, it would govern her
house, her servants to Commands, shops accept and apply, and all
this with such a good nature, with such a gentle , reasonable,
gesezten beings, I see that it does?

In That there is something incomprehensible in this case.

But since it comes so themselves (Olivia with a priest.) Olivia. Chides not
that I rushed to sey if your intention is honest, it comes with me
and this holy man in the Capelle, and under their geweyhten Umwölbung
schwöret me there, before him, the vow of your loyalty, so I still
suspicious, still doubting soul be calmed.

He should keep it a secret until it is like for yourself, time for
a public Feyer, which according to my birth sey, to be determined.

What do you hiezu? Sebastiano. I will follow this holy man and accompany
you, and the fidelity which I swear to you, I will keep forever.

Olivia. So then goes ahead, venerable father, and the sky with a look at
my Beyfall project down! (you go from.) Fifth lift. (This whole
last elevator contains nothing more than a Developers, which is easy to
predict. We know that the establishment of the Plan and the Developers
of the node Theile those are not our worinn Author is superb.
Rose has probably got Mr. March into
some deep discussion, and they've forgotten all about us. But if you will
go, Mr. Kenby, you might just remind Rose of my existence." She let him
lay her jacket on her shoulders before he left her, and then she sat down
on one of the steps, which General Triscoe kept striking with the point
of her umbrella as he stood before her.

"I really shall have to take it from you if you do that any more," she
said, laughing up in his face. "I'm serious."

He stopped. "I wish I could believe you were serious, for a moment."

"You may, if you think it will do you any good. But I don't see why."

The general smiled, but with a kind of tremulous eagerness which might
have been pathetic to any one who liked him. "Do you know this is almost
the first time I have spoken alone with you?"

"Really, I hadn't noticed," said Mrs. Adding.

General Triscoe laughed in rather a ghastly way. "Well, that's
encouraging, at least, to a man who's had his doubts whether it wasn't
intended."

"Intended? By whom? What do you mean, General Triscoe? Why in the world
shouldn't you have spoken alone with me before?"

He was not, with all his eagerness, ready to say, and while she smiled
pleasantly she had the look in her eyes of being brought to bay and being
prepared, if it must come to that, to have the worst over, then and
there. She was not half his age, but he was aware of her having no
respect for his years; compared with her average American past as he
understood it, his social place was much higher, but, she was not in the
least awed by it; in spite of his war record she was making him behave
like a coward. He was in a false position, and if he had any one but
himself to blame he had not her. He read her equal knowledge of these
facts in the clear eyes that made him flush and turn his own away.

Then he started with a quick "Hello!" and stood staring up at the steps
from the terrace above, where Rose Adding was staying himself weakly by a
clutch of Kenby on one side and March on the other.

His mother looked round and caught herself up from where she sat and ran
toward him. "Oh, Rose!"

"It's nothing, mother," he called to her, and as she dropped on her knees
before him he sank limply against her. "It was like what I had in
Carlsbad; that's all. Don't worry about me, please!"

"I'm not worrying, Rose," she said with courage of the same texture as
his own. "You've been walking too much. You must go back in the carriage
with us. Can't you have it come here?" she asked Kenby.

"There's no road, Mrs. Adding. But if Rose would let me carry him--"

"I can walk," the boy protested, trying to lift himself from her neck.

"No, no! you mustn't." She drew away and let him fall into the arms that
Kenby put round him. He raised the frail burden lightly to his shoulder,
and moved strongly away, followed by the eyes of the spectators who had
gathered about the little group, but who dispersed now, and went back to
their devotions.

March hurried after Kenby with Mrs. Adding, whom he told he had just
missed Rose and was looking about for him, when Kenby came with her
message for them. They made sure that he was nowhere about the church,
and then started together down the terraces. At the second or third
station below they found the boy clinging to the barrier that protected
the bass-relief from the zeal of the devotees. He looked white and sick,
though he insisted that he was well, and when he turned to come away with
them he reeled and would have fallen if Kenby had not caught him. Kenby
wanted to carry him, but Rose would not let him, and had made his way
down between them.

"Yea, he has such a spirit," she said, "and I've no doubt he's suffering
now more from Mr. Kenby's kindness than from his own sickness he had one
of these giddy turns in Carlsbad, though, and I shall certainly have a
doctor to see him."

"I think I should, Mrs. Adding," said March, not too gravely, for it
seemed to him that it was not quite his business to alarm her further, if
she was herself taking the affair with that seriousness. I suppose me
the freedom to do this recap, because the actual circumstances of either
new or instructions needed to make my word I must be relieved. When I
think about the events since the death of Mr.

Counts allow me to report, please let me know from the outset to
forgive, that I touch things, which omit, I basically do not beikommt.

But just by mentioning this, you, Gracious Lord, a real insight
into the current situation to win and I give appropriate commands. In my
first two letters had I am honored to report that Mr. Graf undoubtedly
strong by lethal doses of morphine and chloral his life had made an end.
Then, I reported that the bank make payments to our set. I do not know
if you the second letter is received. The woman Countess were in a
very sad conclusion, between the violent outbursts of pain and
accusation against the late Mr.

Earl and myself moved.

The excitement reached a climax of Mrs. Countess, when I - I ask myself
why not to blame - it had the same message as the current financial
situation is and what position you, Gracious Lord, for this had already
been received. Mrs. Countess ordered me to speak, I stood in silence
before the election of an incorrect assessment, disgrace and dismissal.
It was money we had none. So I had the monthly rate and require me to
justify, as I because of their lack of acknowledgment of returned
empty-handed.

The Hergabe my small savings, the woman repeated the Countess returned
brusquely. After all, you, Gracious Lord, understand that a declaration
was not evade.

In spite of all my ideas, there Mrs Countess after glimpse into their bleak
situation on disposals of its diamonds and other jewelry items. I do
now to that point at which I mention your indulgence, Gracious Lord,
must obtain the woman countess told me to certain, that her house would
stand up and from the proceeds of their superfluous goods value-minded
should, in addition to other obligations in the first place those against
Mr Baron separable. Gräfin The woman said that these advances
in highly gloomy, and that they prefer suffering wanted, as any
loans or gifts from friends of your hand fernerhin received.

The friendly relationship with you, Gracious Lord, under the same
living conditions so far so good was, could suffer damage, and Mrs. Countess
therefore prefer to be your friendly help (as they no doubt on
advice is not limited to) are no longer to use, but even you in the
future to stay away.

The woman Countess, C., and after leaving a small, not yet fixed locations
übersiedeln wants to be there with their remaining funds to set up, even
the suggestion made to me, not to betray you, where they will go, and
take as obviously, that I would otherwise not send messages would.
Since Mrs. Countess is so much against everything that opposed their
decision might auflehnt, I am completely powerless. To execute the
above plans, however, is still nothing else than the current
property into money.

I appreciate the interest income in the future barely four thousand
mark, which is like calling a cash capital of one hundred thousand
marks would correspond.

What commend you, Gracious Lord? Should I apparently permit the sale
and about the whole thing without the knowledge of Mrs.
Countess of Mr. Baron for purchase invoice ? In this case, fast
instruction required. Furthermore, how should I behave in the
future?

Am I still with the Lord Baron correspond?

Should I gather all the conditions of service at the Countess of women
leave?

If I use the latter question, please let me know they are not misinterpreted.
I opposed the wife Countess agreed to remain without compensation,
and would only remove me if Mr.

Baron is something Moderate Purpose for Women Countess would recognize.
This is me at the moment, however, as advantageous to be seen. In any
case, you, Gracious Lord, surely understand that I am not a double game
and I can drive a real breach of trust would be guilty if our head
around the way so far remain.

If it does not exceed my authority, I would like the proposal obedient
allow me in the woman Countess endure, but nothing Thue, which is
consistent with the resolutions of women's Countess in opposition,
and he therefore only in the sense of the Lord Baron remained that
I shall use their best efforts on the welfare of the family awake.

If I were to offer the hand, the ownership of the woman on account of
the Countess Mr.

Baron to buy, I believe, is not against the dishonest wife Countess to
act.

Again, I ask for forgiveness, my powers by giving personal views and
by the touch intimate relationships have to be exceeded, and hope,
moreover, that the gracious gentleman from my presentation a proper
image to attract capital.

I commend myself with the more distant benevolence and forbearance
of the merciful Lord, and await further commands.

Whole obedient Tibet valet.

"Already The next morning began with Ange to their preparations for the
parade and was in these zealous support of Tibet.

It was a selection among those items to take, what sells and what the
future housing facility should serve.

For this purpose, were first made some empty spaces and now began to
dial.

Claire fort Ange room decided to keep the same furniture from the room the
children use for the more distant back.

This was still the kitchen facilities and all those household items,
through the apartment in a modest way completed.

Tibet was suddenly very obedient and did not have a single objection.
He produced an accurate list for the auctioneer, and made with the
help of the remaining servants such a clear statement that after a
few days the work was essentially finished.

Then he advised with Ange how to execute all the rest was negotiated with
the homeowner and with staff, agreed with that, dismissed this immediately
to one of the girls, which in Anges services wished to stay, and also
paid all the bills, which were to be paid. It unnecessary now only the
sum which the family had received from Teut, and Tibet before they
contributed to the Banquiers, he had a meeting with employees in
which the future home for discussion came.

Ange was no less thätig been if everything according to their special
kind happened. If in the high mountains of useless odds and
Firlefanzereien was something that the children's request and they appealed
again hervorzogen, Ange their requests could not resist and grabbed it in
the already over with lots of liquids contaminated suitcase.

Sometimes they did, and he forgot what they had just employed. In this and
that were the subject of her memories, her thoughts were very right, and
rose to comparisons between today and earlier. Since stealing is because
Thränen often in the eye, despondent and had them drop their arms.

Often they are surprised that everything went so smoothly that no one
objected when she ordered something. Sooner others acted for them, they
could teach and adhere to appropriate advice. Ange had it self-views that
the things they did not understand their environment and that they
acted.

Now it was suddenly a how hard it really was, practically intervene,
and they are almost surprised that they are so quiet and calm in
Frankfurt had occurred. So, they managed it! That was because
their courage fall back on. Certainly, if only everything in the
new track would be, would they care about, no longer act under sudden
impulse, and that's reasonably economical, and also set up the
Small ensured.

My head was full of plans and good intentions, and their confidence grew,
until then the children and their legitimate needs and unauthorized
appeared before her and she temporarily yet full of doubt looked
into the future.

"Well, my dear Tibet," said Ange and settled in Carlos' room, which is
currently used as residential chamber served Abgespannt tired and
slip into a chair. "Do you have the payment to Mr. Baron von Teut
already done this or should we postpone until the auction has taken place?"
"If Mrs. Countess really think that even this amount - "" If - Tibet -
This amount is in the first, in the same line with all the rest! Of
course!

Moreover, I gave you my opinion already repeatedly. I come only to this
subject, because the sum is high and I do not know whether our funds are
currently already rich. "" However, Madam Countess, it seems advisable
that we wait. Even more so, I would suggest this, because just moving
creation and devour much larger sums, as we have drawn preliminary
calculation. Our huge inventory already melted together - very powerful.
"" Well well! But we have no more debt?

Everything is paid for - what a word! "" Quite right, Mrs Countess! Meanwhile
- "" Well? "" It is quite difficult to me - I would not discourage Ms.
Countess, but I fear we keep far from the sum originally thought, from
whose interest you have to set up.

I am concerned, Madam Countess, and must, therefore, the question again
in your interest to stimulate, whether it is not but to think would be
the advances of Mr. Baron meanwhile is based on it. "Anges face painted
on the horror and disappointment at the same time.

After a brief pause she asked, and this question sounded forced out, which
they had anthun: "What comes - still - the amount which Mr Baron
von Teut owe?"

Tibet gave answer. " This is very much, "she said, barely audible and very
busy with their thoughts." Perhaps the fifth part of what you will,
Madam Countess. "" And how much do you think Tibet, that my worst, worst
of all cases of interest could be? "I allowed myself, Madam Countess,
already on the travel deal that really only safe investment at a rate of
four percent may be expected." "And you really think that was originally
approved capital I would not even remain "" I am afraid, no, Madam Countess
- if Mr. von Teut will be paid! The woman Countess may be submitted to
the receipts even calculate.

"Ange could not calculate, but she nodded and remained silent." How much
does the average well an educated family with five children under modest
conditions, Tibet? "lifted it after a small break. With the answer to
this question were all illusions, which Ange had made so far.

Tibet suffered from these talks. Perhaps he felt even deeper than Given
the pain, the disappointment, although he apparently so teilnahmlos
the truth to be sought out.

He won it is not about themselves, the courage and comforting in
need and with as good intentions of their new life beginning woman
hinwegzuziehen throughout the curtain.

He circumvent their question and replied: "It is so much on the town,
if life is expensive or cheap.

In small towns, everything is better." "It seems almost a difference in
half?" Ange was hoping and lively confirming their own words to. "I
want to believe it, Madam Countess."

"I do not know how I really do, Tibet.

Only this much is clear to me that I did not calm day, no quiet hour
will have, if I have debt, especially if - "she paused, and then
drove almost violently continued:" We need Lord of Teut pay my
husband what he has borrowed, once things are arranged here, as it
always may be!

Will I have less, but I will have the unique consciousness, no one more
committed to be!

"And after all these preliminary objections against performing
decision bowed to Tibet and brought the conversation to move and
live."

Did the wife Countess already made a decision? It remains Eisenach,
including the Lord Master Police advised? "Ange confirmed."

It would then probably recommend that I begin then departure for an
apartment for rent, and then return here to the sale of furniture to
supervise.

But now I know not whether I am the wife Countess wishes to take regarding
this. Maybe you decide to travel also to stand. "The conversation was
interrupted because the two boys came rallied on the outside on the
street had played. Their faces were covered, and Ben came zorngerötet
ran into the room." What is it? What did you do? "Ange asked worriedly."
The - the - over there by Karl - by Kraemer says that - "Ben pointed
to."

We argued and he pushed, I stood at Ben, "was Fred admits.

"Well?" "He said we would be fine counts. Mama would not even pay the
bill. His father could get no money and the other not - "" He cursed,
he needed Expressions of us - well, I've given to him, "added Ben. Ange
looked questioningly Tibet and pallor appeared on her cheeks.

Tibet quickly understood and adopted the word: "It's everything -
the last payment yesterday, Mrs Countess!"

"Ah!"

cried both boys at the same time, and her eyes flared. "Dem's we want to
give!" "Not so, not so, child, "cried Ange fearful, but looked in the
presence of the boys to take." Let the Controversy! If your quiet way and
avoids the neighboring children. Hear it? You heard that he spoke the
untruth. And now go! I have yet to talk with Tibet. "The boys obediently
away, but still excited and lively speaking."

It is time that I fortkomme, "said Ange.

"The sooner, the better it burns to the ground below me. What people
probably talk about everything, how they work with us! Even when the
idea of increasing my blood in the temples .-- When you travel, Tibet?"
"Today - Tomorrow, Madam Countess -" "Well, that is tomorrow, you
will choose an apartment and quickly return. Wollte God, I been sitting
in another location and would find peace and finally -" Ange broke out
in violent Thränen . 'It will all be good, Madam Countess! Certainly,
certainly, you should overcome such things do not upset! " mollified
Tibet tacked a worried look on his mistress and sought her modest eye, in
this order to read his words that their effect would not be missed.
Really stole a smile to Anges mouth words in Tibet, but it was a sad
smile. * * * * * According to the aforementioned events had
plenty of half a year verflossen than on a warm evening in June of
the year 187 - two men in the small garden sat, which belongs to the
so-called summer home of the hotel "Zur Rose" in Wiesbaden is one.
On the covered outdoor tables were the remains of a rich dinner,
and even the waiter had brought a light with which the cigars were
lit.

"Hmm, hm, "said the Major von Teut - because he was there - he
compared to the seated man and blew the smoke a strong cigar after
his habit through the nose.

"That sounds all so good and yet again even as serious as I thought I's.
But perhaps - at first - who knows - it's even better that way? - What did
you get the Countess said about your trip? How did you justify this? "" I
pretended that I wanted to visit the Meiningen. "" Ah, you have
family, Tibet? This is quite new to me! Even the late Count and Countess
have never talked to me. " "They also knew nothing of it, Gracious
Lord." Teut wanted this subject appears closer to the touch, as he
looked up questioningly. But another outdated idea what he had just
imposed. He said abort: "So, so - But yet one! How did you get it started,
that the Countess of nothing all the small lists Behind has noticed? They
believed that their income has always been enough, and that it
only through their thrift everything well made?

"On the still pale face of the speaker flew an inquiring smile, and he
stressed the mustache in visible excitement." However, it has tasted
many arts, Gracious Lord! "reply Tibet, and the recollection of the
wrong game, which he pursued, visibly depressed. "Initially, then,
when you responded to my letter and gave me Verhaltungsmaßregeln, I was
doubtful whether it possible to be them. I had to get me anything, and
formally ausklügeln, as I suspect the woman of the countess could
encounter. When I Purchases made, I said, the goods were included in the
price dropped, and the wife Countess looked at me then great and
made a happy face. In the beginning they clearly wanted nothing to hear
of the like. I allowed myself the suggestion that I like the earlier
economy could provide, and that this in particular because I have
everything set up without difficulty could. But the woman wanted to
Countess do not. You need to see things about themselves, she said,
otherwise they could not get business. With the rent would have soon
everything betrayed. I did the merciful Lord's command below, the landlord
notice that he will only receive half that the rest would otherwise be
corrected. I took a promise from him, against the wife Countess silence
be observed and its environment with ease. One morning now maintained the
woman Countess with a population, and on this occasion was of the homes
in Eisenach's speech.

As we said this was not the cheap, while the wife Countess just had
expressed their astonishment, as Praised is used. One word was the other.
Finally, I was summoned and confirmed the statements of my mistress.
When those are removed had considered myself the wife Countess
already with some suspicion and finally broke into the words: 'Have you
heard? He has before us and lived in this house twice paid. How is
it possible to Tibet, that the Villa to rent half ?'--' The woman could
have Gräfin Mietskontrakt in the hands, 'I replied, as if I was the actual
The purpose of this demand would not understand. Kopfschüttelnd
Countess was a woman like this. Even I was afraid that everything would
be discovered. "" And the school? " Teut said that with the utmost
attention had listened. "What have you done?" "I like the whole semester
and pay the woman said the Countess -" - Tibet stopped, dark Schamröte
colored his cheeks - "that the Executive Director to adopt the same idea
I had." "And that thought the countess?" Provisional yes, Mr. Baron. But
I tremble every day that it comes to light, and then - "" And taxes? "
Teut asked and could not help smile, because he is like a confessor all
offenses from the poor sinner to seek out. "The I have not even been
mentioned! which Mrs. Countess has no idea. I started the tax messengers,
and -" "And threatened him with torture tortures of hell, if he appeared
again? " Teut intervened with good-natured ridicule admits. "Yes, Mr.
Baron, you can probably joking."

Tibet said, now back from the seriousness and responsibility of his task
captured. "But you like me to believe that things are not so easy to play,
when the Countess woman should ever experience what we have done." Teut
drank his wine and wanted to meet a rising sensation Lord to be the
boots hoes beat. But it was just a movement. With a faint hint of pain,
he inne. Not without reason! One, the left leg was missing, he had it
in the war status.
Of course, that put an end to the fight."

"The fight?"

"Yes--that Mrs. Adding and Agatha were keeping up to prevent his offering
himself."

"Oh! And how do you know that they were keeping up the fight together?"

"How do I? Didn't you see yourself what friends they were? Did you tell
him what Stoller had, said about Burnamy?"

"I had no chance. I don't know that I should have done it, anyway. It
wasn't my affair."

"Well, then, I think you might. It would have been everything for that
poor child; it would have completely justified her in her own eyes."

"Perhaps your telling her will serve the same purpose."

"Yes, I did tell her, and I am glad of it. She had a right to know it."

"Did she think Stoller's willingness to overlook Burnamy's performance
had anything to do with its moral quality?"

Mrs. March was daunted for the moment, but she said, "I told her you
thought that if a person owned to a fault they disowned it, and put it
away from them just as if it had never been committed; and that if a
person had taken their punishment for a wrong they had done, they had
expiated it so far as anybody else was concerned. And hasn't poor Burnamy
done both?"

As a moralist March was flattered to be hoist with his own petard, but as
a husband he was not going to come down at once. "I thought probably you
had told her that. You had it pat from having just been over it with me.
When has she heard from him?"

"Why, that's the strangest thing about it. She hasn't heard at all. She
doesn't know where he is. She thought we must know. She was terribly
broken up."

"How did she show it?"

"She didn't show it. Either you want to tease, or you've forgotten how
such things are with young people--or at least girls."

"Yes, it's all a long time ago with me, and I never was a girl. Besides,
the frank and direct behavior of Kenby and Mrs. Adding has been very
obliterating to my early impressions of love-making."

"It certainly hasn't been ideal," said Mrs. March with a sigh.

"Why hasn't it been ideal?" he asked. "Kenby is tremendously in love with
her; and I believe she's had a fancy for him from the beginning. If it
hadn't been for Rose she would have accepted him at once; and now he's
essential to them both in their helplessness. As for Papa Triscoe and his
Europeanized scruples, if they have any reality at all they're the
residuum of his personal resentment, and Kenby and Mrs. Adding have
nothing to do with their unreality. His being in love with her is no
reason why he shouldn't be helpful to her when she needs him, and every
reason why he should. I call it a poem, such as very few people have the
luck to live out together."

Mrs. March listened with mounting fervor, and when he stopped, she cried
out, "Well, my dear, I do believe you are right! It is ideal, as you say;
it's a perfect poem. And I shall always say--"

She stopped at the mocking light which she caught in his look, and
perceived that he had been amusing himself with her perennial enthusiasm
for all sorts of love-affairs. But she averred that she did not care;
what he had said was true, and she should always hold him to it.

They were again in the wedding-journey sentiment in which they had left
Carlsbad, when they found themselves alone together after their escape
from the pressure of others' interests. The tide of travel was towards
Frankfort, where the grand parade was to take place some days later. They
were going to Weimar, which was so few hours out of their way that they
simply must not miss it; and all the way to the old literary capital they
were alone in their compartment, with not even a stranger, much less a
friend to molest them. The flying landscape without was of their own
early autumnal mood, and when the vineyards of Wurzburg ceased to purple
it, the heavy after-math of hay and clover, which men, women, and
children were loading on heavy wains, and driving from the meadows
everywhere, offered a pastoral and pleasing change. It was always the
German landscape; sometimes flat and fertile, sometimes hilly and poor;
often clothed with dense woods, but always charming, with castled tops in
ruin or repair, and with levels where Gothic villages drowsed within
their walls, and dreamed of the mediaeval past, silent, without apparent
life, except for some little goose-girl driving her flock before her as
she sallied out into the nineteenth century in search of fresh pasturage.

As their train mounted among the Thuringian uplands they were aware of a
finer, cooler air through their open window. The torrents foamed white
out of the black forests of fir and pine, and brawled along the valleys,
where the hamlets roused themselves in momentary curiosity as the train
roared into them from the many tunnels. The afternoon sunshine had the
glister of mountain sunshine everywhere, and the travellers had a
pleasant bewilderment in which their memories of Switzerland and the
White Mountains mixed with long-dormant emotions from Adirondack
sojourns. They chose this place and that in the lovely region where they
lamented that they had not come at once for the after-cure, and they
appointed enough returns to it in future years to consume all the summers
they had left to live.


LIX.

It was falling night when they reached Weimar, where they found at the
station a provision of omnibuses far beyond the hotel accommodations.
They drove first to the Crown-Prince, which was in a promising state of
reparation, but which for the present could only welcome them to an
apartment where a canvas curtain cut them off from a freshly plastered
wall. The landlord deplored the fact, and sent hospitably out to try and
place them at the Elephant. But the Elephant was full, and the Russian
Court was full too. Then the landlord of the Crown-Prince bethought
himself of a new hotel, of the second class, indeed, but very nice, where
they might get rooms, and after the delay of an hour, they got a carriage
and drove away from the Crown-Prince, where the landlord continued to the
last as benevolent as if they had been a profit instead of a loss to him.

The streets of the town at nine o'clock were empty and quiet, and they
instantly felt the academic quality of the place. Through the pale night
they could see that the architecture was of the classic sentiment which
they were destined to feel more and more; at one point they caught a
fleeting glimpse of two figures with clasped hands and half embraced,
which they knew for the statues of Goethe and Schiller; and when they
mounted to their rooms at the Grand-Duke of Saxe-Weimar, they passed
under a fresco representing Goethe and four other world-famous poets,
Shakspere, Milton, Tasso, and Schiller. The poets all looked like
Germans, as was just, and Goethe was naturally chief among them; he
marshalled the immortals on their way, and Schiller brought up the rear
and kept them from going astray in an Elysium where they did not speak
the language. For the rest, the hotel was brand-new, of a quite American
freshness, and was pervaded by a sweet smell as of straw matting, and
provided with steam-radiators. In the sense of its homelikeness the
Marches boasted that they were never going away from it.

In the morning they discovered that their windows looked out on the
grand-ducal museum, with a gardened space before and below its
classicistic bulk, where, in a whim of the weather, the gay flowers were
full of sun. In a pleasant illusion of taking it unawares, March strolled
up through the town; but Weimar was as much awake at that hour as at any
of the twenty-four, and the tranquillity of its streets, where he
encountered a few passers several blocks apart, was their habitual mood.
He came promptly upon two objects which he would willingly have shunned:
a 'denkmal' of the Franco-German war, not so furiously bad as most German
monuments, but antipathetic and uninteresting, as all patriotic monuments
are; and a woman-and-dog team. In the shock from this he was sensible
that he had not seen any woman-and-dog teams for some time, and he
wondered by what civic or ethnic influences their distribution was so
controlled that they should have abounded in Hamburg, Leipsic, and
Carlsbad, and wholly ceased in Nuremberg, Ansbach, and Wurzburg, to
reappear again in Weimar, though they seemed as characteristic of all
Germany as the ugly denkmals to her victories over France.

The Goethe and Schiller monument which he had glimpsed the night before
was characteristic too, but less offensively so. German statues at the
best are conscious; and the poet-pair, as the inscription calls them,
have the air of showily confronting posterity with their clasped hands,
and of being only partially rapt from the spectators. But they were more
unconscious than any other German statues that March had seen, and he
quelled a desire to ask Goethe, as he stood with his hand on Schiller's
shoulder, and looked serenely into space far above one of the typical
equipages of his country, what he thought of that sort of thing. But upon
reflection he did not know why Goethe should be held personally
responsible for the existence of the woman-and-dog team. Which conflicts
with the children if they are old habit coveted anything that they input
the mood! "No, no!" Ange said. "Why not, Mama?" "Because I do not want,
because it is superfluous." The small supply, so far without a privation,
then squinted probably agree to obtaining smile because of these
unexpected words to the older siblings over. But they found no echo of
their childish foolishness. They felt with their instinct that the thing
had absolutely nothing comical. * * * * * The first thing Ange after
deliberate progress of Tibet and subsequently also for execution, had
an even more stringent daily schedule as before. It was in early on and
ensured that the children were given breakfast and came to school. While
the maid and purchases made after this to prepare for the lunch was
worried the rest of Ange housework. Immediately after the table began
working for the children.

Ange looked at the boy and help as the girls and gave the last of the
daily also mentioned Tibet music. When the weather allowed, was a
common walk undertaken, and the rest of the day dealt with the Ange Many
leading to a economy: the mending of clothes, with her little hand and
accounting. All her thoughts were on the children. From the school books
were herbeigeholt and alternately read one of the children the evening
before. The ensuing knüpfenden questions Ange replied to the best
ability, and if this was not enough to hand them to resources that
are under Carlos' estate were, and then sat - a child among children
- and also sought to teach the curious. Every desire of their favorites
ascended, she heard, and pondered before, whether it was achievable.
She had made to the principle, never like to say yes, but only auszubitten
reflection. If they - like most - a negative response given, probably
began in a "Why not, Mama, please!" and an urging and begging, which
it will be difficult to resist managed. The children were so many out
there basically like flowers on the trees, and where these were missing,
they are flattered, and made attacks on Anges weak heart. But they remained
solid, even if it is hot inside aufstieg. Ben was always on their side
and fought from the other.

He had much resemblance to the deceased Carlitos. The boy was full of
loving-kindness, he had character, and he surprised his annual trip by his
ruling and the law of his being. Here he was full-sacrifice for his
mother that he loved her tenderly. Once it was, it was not working too
bad or too difficult, if no time had - he always had it. He helped
her, even in the kitchen, and ran away, when something had to be
rapidly worried.

The boy felt no longer instinctive, but was aware of how things were,
and his heart drove him to his mother daily to ease symptoms. This all but
came to light only in the home. Outside, the boy was a completely
different. Above all others he had a burning ambition. Every day he
reported what happened at school, as he has become, rightly or wrongly,
and he pondered what he had to start on the rungs of his storm heads
further emporzusteigen. And all stood him well he could not be
otherwise, as he was. But if even a smile on his handsome face or even
slipped his eyes reflected deeper feelings, then was so beautiful that
he would model a painter can stand. "What is your name?" "Graf
Benno Claire continued." Nie said he different, but strangely cried even
in adults showed no smile. * * * * * Sometimes Ange seemed old, which
had earlier, like a dream, and in this picture of their ideas to
appear again on Teut.

Who would have told her once that she would flee him anxious, and so
escape, because he kept word in all that he was in their better days in
the forest promised and what was the highest but what a man could give
the other -- the foolish, it would have Thoren of Olten. And yet that's
not a dream image. It was now perhaps separated from him - for life!
Would he, after the previous assessment of their person, their position
as a woman does not show mood? She saw him before - the superior smile
plays around his mouth, he shook about such Kindereien the head. Did
he do right? Then he's back on them one day, pondering in the search for
the right, in the anxious concern, the injured to whom they owed so much
and now has remained silent, as if he went among the dead. They decided
to write to him and to defend its position. But the heart is stopped
again inne. What she also wrote that she could not influence his thinking.
Maybe he looked at the contents of her letter only as a pretext for
changing their attitude. And that's not even understandable, of course,
that now also proud to be stimulated? Was he one of those who seek
other intrusive approach? No!

And since he does not share her feelings was - they knew it from Tibet's
lips - he had her memory may be wiped out - extinguished forever?
And now they should give the first word, in him the impression, was
eventually them with vital and concern, also pressured by their old nature,
but come and have requested, what it once so brusquely dismissed? Never!
Gone was it with all the hopes, which are linked to earlier times! There
was only one ray of light: the happiness of children, and in this alone,
they had their own search. This carried the letter. The fluctuating
fall gradually with the winter appears ruthless steps, dusty, resistance
and not respecting his right to ensure with snow whirling over the landscape
and suggested the whole of nature in its white blankets. But with the
winter were also concerns white as ghosts to Ange approached. When
they learned of her home, the quarterly bank interest received and a
made-over, what remains to be paid and what was needed until the new year
seemed, she saw that its now almost nothing remains. Ange had despite
extreme thrift small debts, and the terrible of Tibet reported considerable
sum which Teut in the first half-year budget contributed had stood
still looms over the rest up.

Just wipe them, always employed afresh, almost exclusively, respectively
Anges thoughts. Already, she charges that she had not previously
abgezahlt. Teut triumphed, perhaps, that they are so defiant afterwards
eilfertig and desires - and now everything was quiet. They decided - it
was a wrong decision - her neighbor, a little, with a housekeeper living
capitalists - a large sum as loan to ask and those immediately indicated
Teut. As you know on the way was whispered to her a reassuring
voice that a single gold piece as the removal will suffice to
protect themselves against themselves and against Teut to justify.

But mixed with quiet pride, vanity outweighed what better insight zurannte
her, and she pulled the bell and entered the house. It giebt Apartments,
where a cold air entströmt, even for the summer time. Frosty
Selbstbehagen, which has a narrow, defensive circle around itself, the
rest of the world only sees, hears only and only with her busy, if no such
contract, permeates and affects the residents so cool that it is
even dead things appears to be notified. When Ange decided the hallway,
they attacked the timidity, which almost always too rapid of our
imagination cares to follow. In the great hall stood two in embarrassing
Clean Holdings in color painted oak cabinets, the entrant has anstarrten
cold. And nothing else around: no carpet, no chairs, no hooks, no
clock. What about a quick hand could steal, was wisely removed. A cold,
on a clean, closed space in which the ringing loud impertinent nachtönte!
Now knocked Ange. "Ah, Madam Countess!" said the partner-like.

It was an old lady in a simple dark dress and a white cap on her
head. "Please, Mr. Putz is present." Putz had nothing in the world thun
he talking very happy, spoke only of himself and stood in spite of his
selfishness and bored, he ausströmte - only he was a Raterteilen
squanderer - -under the impression that the traffic and deal with
it is for others an unusual preference. The fact that he only followed
his inclinations are merely self-time distribution and that due to transport
any reciprocity adult, this idea never came into his head. While Ange
look around, she had at the sight of people and the familiar things
suddenly Convinced her request will be knocked off her. War's plaster
but that they are already in their relationships had an insight
thun let by him for information because of reduction of taxes asked.

It was her incomprehensible that it is not considered previously, and she
scolded her lack of consideration now that it was too late. Ange incidentally
was not as fast the old man the opportunity to state what they are employed.
The general partner was an unwelcome witness, and even as they
once fortging, there was no starting point.

        Thus, because indifferent conversation touched objects and double
Ange felt discomfort in the entertainment, as its intention not to
execute the managed.

Suddenly Putz said: "Well, did you notice from the Tax Authority, Mrs
Countess? I always wanted to ask." Ange yes . They reported that they
had asked their applications shall be demonstrated, and that a re-examination
should take place. Provisions must be paid the sum to which it was
assessed. "Quite right, quite right! So, so!" said the old man, and
after a short pause he continued: "If I could somehow help, Madam Countess
- quite happy, with great pleasure!" The owner was not returned. These
kind words encouraged Ange. Well, so could it be! Suddenly, she was again
full of hopes. "Thank you very much, Mr. Putz. I also wanted to have another
thing in your Council, or rather ask for your help." "Please,
please, Madam Countess!" The old man was always curious. The conversation
had already towed, now it was attractive. "So, Mr. Neighbor, I would
like to ask you if you give me twelve hundred marks probably would
want to borrow, which I gradually could pay off.

I, I -" faltered Ange .

Please, Countess! " Putz wanted to hear everything. It occurred to him not
to address such things, but he wanted to hear. Anges confidence grew. "I
have," she continued familiar, "one old debt that I am not pressed, not
pressed - I mean, which I will not be pushed, but I for other reasons
-" " Hm, I understand, "said Putz. And not the same as Ange continued, he
added, his curiosity only poorly under oppressive, adding: "From a relative
probable?" "No, not by a relative, I did not have a single relative
in the world, not from my parents yet from my husband. " How was
this careless frankness!

Ange saw it - too late. She was suddenly, as if they Olga gegenübersäße
of Ink, and all their hopes sank into a deep well. "I got the money
from - from -" Well Ange even stood in front of the name, they should be
before that people pronounce names Teuts ! Where had they come! She sought
and attacked in their helplessness to an untruth, perhaps for the
first time in their lives where they are serious matters involved. "From
Mr. Tibet," she burst out. "Ah so!" Putz said, apparently surprised to
the highest, and drew the eyebrows on the cunning eyes. "From Mr
Tibet?

He is gone, is not it? Inverts he did not return to you?" Ange repented
what they said, how she regretted ever now that it is spoken! There she
was clear that the man only wanted to satisfy his curiosity, and that
is the subject of him not in the least interested. She was now
on the same point from which they are in the correct knowledge is assumed.
She had finally really disappointing, after they had requested. "No, he
does not revert back," she said shortly repellent. "But to return
to the matter to come: how is it, Mr. Putz, would you offer me your
hand?" Savor Ange had the disappointment to the bottom. "I can not,
Madam Countess, with the best will do I not! But - you do not mind that
I add a friendly word and my opinion tribute. As much as I understand,
that his servants owe no money left would like - "Ange broke the speakers
and said proudly:" They used the expression servants ! This is not true!
Tibet was the secretary and my husband and Agents also Haushofmeister
former in our big house care. He followed me out of friendship, after my
situation had changed. "" Ah, ah, very well! Then the matter yes very
good. Let an experienced man, woman Countess! Even if I could serve
you, I would allow the proposal that there deferral request and prefer to
keep the old creditors, despite any embarrassment. Money is money!
Who's giebt, wants security, and - and - "" You are right! " Ange fell
almost übereilig On. "Let's not continue like this, only one in my
justification, I assumed that you will not be uncomfortable, and since
total security in my person -" "Of course, of course, Madam Countess, I
would you the money on the mere promissory note given - of course! "* * *
* * After four weeks had elapsed, Ange was almost completely bare
of money, and they thought and thought, how they could help.

Also, the neighbor came to her again to mind. Certainly, if they have not
followed their intuition thörichten would - he would have a small
temporary total willingly receive. Whether he would now? Maybe! But the
shame outweighed the urge of necessity, and they gave the idea. Once
they have submitted to the bank to write and to advance to the quarter
January to ask money. That like it could be tried, it was not yet
even come to mind. Now aroused the concern of practical thought. But
this plan had them fall again. The beginning of the year has
required so much that they did not know how live. Now, she aid, so they
lacked in the sequence. That was only a weak expedient, and perhaps not
succeeded once, and she later regretted the move.

Einemmal With piles up again to her how difficult, how impossible it
would be, with their low-budget ends meet, and this insight crept another
idea, which they so afraid peinigte that the redness in her cheeks
rose. Had they ever had a right to make their neighbor to the amount of
money in such a manner? War's not been reckless and had they not ashamed
that they are so proud of their identity as a security that was? -
One evening Ben went after the other children already had gone to rest,
in the living room to thun. Ange sewed to the small school
supply kit in a belt that had resolved.

The needle was too subtle, it was her hard. Suddenly, the boy sat down
opposite her, remained silent for a moment and then began with a peculiar
tone in his voice: "You know, Mama, why is Tibet fortgegangen? Du
narrative test recently, her would have had a Zerwürfnis; it was
something - something with money?

"Ange bowed his head, then she said:" Yes, yes, Ben, you do not understand.
"" But, Mama. he wanted money from you and might You do not give it to
him? "" No, Ben, it was vice versa. "Conversely - How did you want
money from him -" "You understand wrong, Ben. He wanted to - he gave
me money - that is, - No, this is also not correct. I refused myself
from him - something to think so - "Des Knaben pupil is enlarged, and
it drove over his face." He wanted to give you money, and because you
know it not wanted to take, went Tibet continue? "" No, Ben, I bade him
go. But I repeat that I will not tell, can not explain. "" But, Mum!
" Ben said firmly. "Tell me everything, please. I am no longer quiet, if
I do not know everything. Papa Was not very rich? Has he lost all his
money?" Ange nodded. "Does Tibet to thun?" "No, Ben. Papa however, was
very rich, but lost his money in an effort to have it for you to multiply.
When he died, was nothing there. "" Nothing? That was wrong. It was -
"The boy stopped and defeated it. "Ah, and now wanted to Tibet to
help you, and you wanted nothing, and -" "Yes, yes, it was so
similar, my dear boy.

But once again you can do the inner connection is not understood, ask
me not continued. "" He meant well but it is, Mama! "Ange lowered her
head." Are you him evil? Will you not be tolerated? "" I do not know,
my good Ben. I do not think so - " "And why? Just because -" Still Ange
gently moving the head approvingly. "Oh, I love you!" pushed the
boy, and his mother umhalste. "If I could only be protected, and - and -"
conquest of power and lust in his eyes flashed. If it's on him
had been, he would love his mom put on the arms and through the
throng of the world have borne.

When they tender him a hug and he was dismissed with a "Good night!" stood
in the door, his eye overflew once their shape. He came back, they included
stormy and whispered: "Please, do not work too long. I do not sleep
before you go to bed. Yes, Mum?" What love hot flashed from both
eyes! Then he slipped away and looked at his camp. * * * * * It was a
winter. For days there was a rigid, immovable snow on the landscape, and
the air was empty of that dear Gray, in whose sight we have fröstelt and
shudders. This was a reckless, Mark and leg durchkältender Ostwind, his
breath festverschlossenen through the doors and chased all the
defensive resistance in the houses opposite.

The children came for lunch, from frost and cold shake, go home, and
since in the upper part of the Villa situated sleeping chambers
were not heated, it was the morning the water in the jugs kegel pointed
frozen, and only a fingernail could the arabesques of ice to
penetrate the windows were steamed up.

The fire was already consumed. The maid reported that the baskets from the
floor last herabgeholt have. Fred came home and was on the ice damaged.
The clothes were leg on the knee burst, and Ange scolded and looked at
the pool after another.

But what the boy had to wardrobe was too easy, and so had to offer
after Schneider Send to mend them to leave because they did not
understand such work.

That was nothing in the end, but often these are rather small moroseness
that our lives difficult, as the big ones.

Ernas About Winterhut had the girls in school made all sorts of ridicule.
The well belongs to their mom, or was from a comedian wardrobe? so she
excitedly reported. "Rejoice that you have a hat, my child: he is healthy
and clean. Let the kids talk." But if this is Ange said, but it cut to
the heart. However, it was a hat that they themselves had stored, and
the child is looked strangely out. Another to buy? No! She had not even
money, firing order, which was so sorely needed. In the beginning, the
children are all pretty, so very becoming costumes. The two girls looked
so graceful and elegant, that people are after them around. But in the
meantime was so much damaged and has not renewed.

The small Ange wore for the first time at the knees stockings stopped
and pulled the dress down, but not this create more, and nothing was
concealed.

The head of the boys had plenty of wear, collar and cuffs and had to serve
for longer than previously. Ange's sometimes pierced with knife through
the chest, if they change the look of their pets with children
compared to the other.

At one of these evenings unthätig Ange sat at their usual work book and
full of grief and support the main concern.

Babies had them in their carriages, and the effect of the
floating lights in the winding, up-and-down-hill streets was charming
even to Burnamy's lack-lustre eyes. He went by his hotel and on to a cafe
with a garden, where there was a patriotic, concert promised; he supped
there, and then sat dreamily behind his beer, while the music banged and
brayed round him unheeded.

Presently he heard a voice of friendly banter saying in English, "May I
sit at your table?" and he saw an ironical face looking down on him.
"There doesn't seem any other place."

"Why, Mr. March!" Burnamy sprang up and wrung the hand held out to him,
but he choked with his words of recognition; it was so good to see this
faithful friend again, though he saw him now as he had seen him last,
just when he had so little reason to be proud of himself.

March settled his person in the chair facing Burnamy, and then glanced
round at the joyful jam of people eating and drinking, under a firmament
of lanterns. "This is pretty," he said, "mighty pretty. I shall make Mrs.
March sorry for not coming, when I go back."

"Is Mrs. March--she is--with you--in Weimar?" Burnamy asked stupidly.

March forbore to take advantage of him. "Oh, yes. We saw you out at
Belvedere this afternoon. Mrs. March thought for a moment that you meant
not to see us. A woman likes to exercise her imagination in those little
flights."

"I never dreamed of your being there--I never saw--" Burnamy began.

"Of course not. Neither did Mrs. Etkins, nor Miss Etkins; she was looking
very pretty. Have you been here some time?"

"Not long. A week or so. I've been at the parade at Wurzburg."

"At Wurzburg! Ah, how little the world is, or how large Wurzburg is! We
were there nearly a week, and we pervaded the place. But there was a
great crowd for you to hide in from us. What had I better take?" A waiter
had come up, and was standing at March's elbow. "I suppose I mustn't sit
here without ordering something?"

"White wine and selters," said Burnamy vaguely.

"The very thing! Why didn't I think of it? It's a divine drink: it
satisfies without filling. I had it a night or two before we left home,
in the Madison Square Roof Garden. Have you seen 'Every Other Week'
lately?"

"No," said Burnamy, with more spirit than he had yet shown.

"We've just got our mail from Nuremberg. The last number has a poem in it
that I rather like." That was one of the two sides are urged to coalition.
On a personal dislikes liked how there are not lacking, the winning captain
has the street speakers impossible to love, they are still less the
executioner of carboplatin and Brutus with joy as their main welcome,
however, the political necessity outweighed, at least for the moment, every
moral concerns . But the Democrats and joined Pompey their covenant
not alone. Even Marcus Crassus was in a similar situation as Pompey.
Although Sullaner how this was but his policies, like that of Pompey,
especially a personal and not those of the ruling oligarchy, and he too
was now in Italy at the head of a powerful and victorious army, with
which he has just the slave uprising was beaten. It was his choice,
either against the coalition with the oligarchy to connect or to enter
into the coalition, he chose the latter and thus without doubt the safer
way. In his fabulous wealth and his influence on the metropolitan clubs,
he actually runs a federal estimable comrade; obwaltenden under the
circumstances but it was an unpredictable profit if only the army, which
the Senate with the troops of Pompey would have to encounter, the
attacking power is beigesellte.

The Democrats, moreover, where the alliance with the superior
commander is not well liked to be mute, did not dislike him in
Marcus Crassus counterbalance and perhaps a future rival to the side.

This came in the summer of year 683 (71) the first coalition agreement
between a democracy and the two Sullanischen generals Gnaeus Pompey and
Marcus Crassus the other.
Now that he was launched, March rather enjoyed letting himself go. He did
not know what he should say to Mrs. March when he came to confess having
told Burnamy everything before she got a chance at him; he pushed on
recklessly, upon the principle, which probably will not hold in morals,
that one may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb. "I have a message for
you from Mr. Stoller."

"For me?" Burnamy gasped.

"I've been wondering how I should put it, for I hadn't expected to see
you. But it's simply this: he wants you to know--and he seemed to want me
to know--that he doesn't hold you accountable in the way he did. He's
thought it all over, and he's decided that he had no right to expect you
to save him from his own ignorance where he was making a show of
knowledge. As he said, he doesn't choose to plead the baby act. He says
that you're all right, and your place on the paper is open to you."

Burnamy had not been very prompt before, but now he seemed braced for
instant response. "I think he's wrong," he said, so harshly that the
people at the next table looked round. "His feeling as he does has
nothing to do with the fact, and it doesn't let me out."

March would have liked to take him in his arms; he merely said, "I think
you're quite right, as to that. But there's such a thing as forgiveness,
you know. It doesn't change the nature of what you've done; but as far as
the sufferer from it is concerned, it annuls it."

"Yes, I understand that. But I can't accept his forgiveness if I hate
him."

"But perhaps you won't always hate him. Some day you may have a chance to
do him a good turn. It's rather banale; but there doesn't seem any other
way. Well, I have given you his message. Are you going with me to get
that poem?"

When March had given Burnamy the paper at his hotel, and Burnamy had put
it in his pocket, the young man said he thought he would take some
coffee, and he asked March to join him in the dining-room where they had
stood talking.

"No, thank you," said the elder, "I don't propose sitting up all night,
and you'll excuse me if I go to bed now. It's a little informal to leave
a guest--"

"You're not leaving a guest! I'm at home here. I'm staying in this hotel
too."

March said, "Oh!" and then he added abruptly, "Good-night," and went up
stairs under the fresco of the five poets.

"Whom were you talking with below?" asked Mrs. March through the door
opening into his room from hers.

"Burnamy," he answered from within. "He's staying in this house. He let
me know just as I was going to turn him out for the night. It's one of
those little uncandors of his that throw suspicion on his honesty in
great things."

"Oh! Then you've been telling him," she said, with a mental bound high
above and far beyond the point.

"Everything."

"About Stoller, too?"

"About Stoller and his daughters, and Mrs. Adding and Rose and Kenby and
General Triscoe--and Agatha."

"Very well. That's what I call shabby. Don't ever talk to me again about
the inconsistencies of women. But now there's something perfectly
fearful."

"What is it?"

"A letter from Miss Triscoe came after you were gone, asking us to find
rooms in some hotel for her and her father to-morrow. He isn't well, and
they're coming. And I've telegraphed them to come here. Now what do you
say?"


LXII.

They could see no way out of the trouble, and Mrs. March could not resign
herself to it till her husband suggested that she should consider it
providential. This touched the lingering superstition in which she had
been ancestrally taught to regard herself as a means, when in a very
tight place, and to leave the responsibility with the moral government of
the universe. As she now perceived, it had been the same as ordered that
they should see Burnamy under such conditions in the afternoon that they
could not speak to him, and hear where he was staying; and in an inferior
degree it had been the same as ordered that March should see him in the
evening and tell him everything, so that she should know just how to act
when she saw him in the morning. If he could plausibly account for the
renewal of his flirtation with Miss Elkins, or if he seemed generally
worthy apart from that, she could forgive him.

First and foremost was the relationship with Ms. Ange Teuts discussed, and
there was hardly a verbal exchange in the spheres of society C.schen
instead, without the hold that evil woman was overwhelmed after speeches.
As the storm over a ruthlessly in its innocent white blossom jewelry tree
stand dahinwütet, so you zerpflückte Anges honor and reputation. As
the Count, it was a regrettable, suffering through his nervous little
more sane man would, it was not too surprising that the outrageous goings
unpunished under his eyes take place. Also it could be a life-funny,
unmarried Husarenrittmeister not blame if it is the sweet fruit, which
so seductive woman he gefallsüchtige and performances, not reject.
Ärgererregend it was enough that he did not even watch the usual
considerations and the relationship is so open to light can occur, but
also is supported by her eccentric and frivolous nature rather
excused.

In a similar way and this gave the company in its ruling and held it -
of course only too tested in things you are unterfing those unterzuschieben
- impossible that people could connect anything other than a criminal
passion. But you did not stand. The assets of Claire forts were also
evaluated. It had nothing to do with the great wealth! Only the enormous
wastefulness of women after resistance factor, Claire had continued
the villa in such a luxurious way preparation, and an expense
approved, any description of ridicule. Now, the backlash has already
occurred. Nobody wants to give more credit, yes, you have the servant
who had to be sacked, barely able to pay the wages. Counts of melancholic
suffering was due to this concern associated with daily
conditions due, and if his farewell speech, so this probably was not
voluntary.

Ah, and these children! Have you ever experienced an irresponsible
upbringing? Like monkeys they walked hand in hand and aroused anger
in young and old with their precious and her haughty manner. Recently we
even thought of the mysterious relationship between Tibet and the
count and called the valet as a dangerous man, in the murky and the
fish seem oddly trust that you will give him only to his advantage
exploitative.

Teut has been nothing of all these things came to the ears.

It was also in the nature of things that he has not touched, in which
he himself such an emerging role. Meanwhile, however, something happened
to him on the views of the quantity opened her eyes and what is
not without impact on him themselves stayed.

The officers are often wrong in the family of a Lord of Ink, a
landowner, the long years before, when the opportunity of a second
marriage, sold his possessions and moved into the city had had the
effect.

He was more than an innocent man who nobody really liked, but no one stood
in the way. His wife, on the other hand belonged to those women
whose reckless selfishness and their minds with a significant associated
Thatkraft can often regret that they have no other place and any other
sphere in the world depends.

Wife Olga could only love or hate, real words: or just hate the
people of service, because they had next to an exaggerated pride,
little heart, and without fear zertrat, which is hampering her in
the path.

There was, however, all these properties at significant that they
are against people who hold a position in society, taking from a
sleek showed courtesy and not rested until it succeeded, to a closer
with them to come.

My house was being exemplary sorted; you amused well into the Inkschen
home. Mrs.

Olga followed a wise lesson that so few know, and in any case rarely
followed.

It looked like the guest a bird which, according to his inclination here
or there under the tree escapes, nascht, chirped and after taste
and mood again davonfliegt.

The traffic with the proverbial rich Captain Baron von Teut-Eder was for
many years Mrs Olga remained an unfulfilled hope.

All their attempts, it should be, failed in his polite but firm
defense.

This woman tempted Ink more so than resistance in such cases, the value
increases.

Moreover, they had three daughters, one of which is from the first
marriage of her husband came.

Clare of ink, a pale, very graceful, but no longer quite young girl,
was seen often with tear eyes.

Two people could not hate more honest as a mother and step-daughter,
but rarely found two such different characters. Clare was an open, sincere,
and all sham disincline nature, during the depths of the soul of
a woman Olga nobody had understood. Of course, the wife of Ink wished
her two beautiful children to legally marry, but no less because it was
to finally be rid of Clare. Teut was a very brilliant game. Both fit in
old age together, and in this connection were able to develop as many
amenities, such as now Mißhelligkeiten were on the agenda.

Moreover, wife Olga and their daughter the same name or the lovely
Eva nothing in the way have made, though the captain almost whose
father might have been.

Teut Ink and had recently been in a horse trade be affected.

This developed into a multiple encounters, which with the result
that Lord of the Ink Rittmeister one morning in his house and enter
it to the breakfast is served in part to bat.

Teut could not escape, and now had the ehrsüchtige woman finally
achieved their wish!

Before the guests took leave, he had to willy-nilly, nor an invitation
to an imminent accept Diner. What a triumph for Ms. Olga,
surely one of the habitual cancellations at the last moment had
feared, when the much-Baron really fixed hours and arrived for the
continuous Inksche house seemed to be won.

But another long-pursued plan hoped Mrs Olga through the approximation
of the Cavalry captain to reach.

Even Claire Forts were among the persons with whom she had not touched in
more to come, and now she found a comfortable and, as she supposed,
secure connection through Teut.

The once noble family with him to see a look in the local home care
to be able to throw or even with Claire forts to operate continuously,
one of those nostalgic desires, the fulfillment of which they hardly
dared to hope. Even during the lunch - Teut had occurred as the
last guest of honor, the woman of the house to lead - Olga, brought the
conversation to Claire forts, but this most skillfully made. He told
briefly and regretting that his friends physically and mentally
go bad that the wife Countess consequently more and more from all
the socializing that must pull back and the rest of its most complete
woman under God's sun was.

He was also a lot about his person and his situation, and mentioned that
the administration of his possessions from his hands by some difficulties
with them. He was, however, as he added, a man of habit and filed
also a soldier, only his craft, his Horses and hunting dear and yet so
comfortable that they are able, for example, an invitation from his
cousin to an eight days calculated at the Fixed assets have ausgeschlagen.
Only one thing would it be able to call his relatives to be obeyed, and
the desire to ensure that this incorrigible bachelor finally marry.
"Ah, you say?" cried the wife of Ink, by this particular conversation
shackled, "You, you are almost a Weiber enemy, that is - with one
exception," she said smilingly added. "I would dispute this decision,
madam," replied Teut, without the final sentence to be observed. "I
worship women like everything beautiful in the world, but I have no
luck and no skill in dealing with them. In addition - the older one is -"
"You talk about age?" Teut nodded. "Certainly, how much you appreciate me,
madam?" "Well, in any case, you are the best - in the marriage age.

What, my dear child?" she is apologetic when Eva suddenly appeared behind
her chair and have a question directed to them. Teut pushed back like that,
while the ladies exchanged a few words, while he watched Olgas daughter
accurate. Eva was like a wild rose in her appearance: she was That in
the very pretty, but the face was spiritless. "I ask for forgiveness!"
Olga turned back to her guest. "A beautiful young girl," said Teut
authentic and from a certain intent dominates. "They have the same evidence
that it is impossible for the women not to venerate." Ms Olga saw
with a touch more pleasant surprise to the speakers. Had they heard
right? Teut of you knew that he probably crudeness, but seldom-like to
say. "Ah, you scoffers!" she answered, with the intention to listen
more. Teut but smiled and remained silent. It pleased him to doubt it. At
last he said: "Their youngest two - twins, if I am not mistaken - are
equally lovely. This is very bad." Schlimm How so? Even under the condition
of accuracy of your flattering assertion. "" Well bad so far, madam! as
both ladies but no one able to marry, and because one of them to
choose the next highest satisfaction of possession while the highest
pain over a lost cause would be safe. "" I suppose you want to drive
a little ridicule, "said Ms Olga .

Ever - and thus also an open confession - after I finally had the luck,
you know more to be, but I find the confirmation of what I'm so often
told. "" Only a confirmation? " Teut. joked, "I had hoped that the
description of my person überträfe far as I am confident that you will
find nothing but good." "Who knows! You are the first man who met me in
life, before his sarcasm, I am afraid. "Likewise half and half reproach-like
utterances containing loved wife Olga. She had many, if they wanted to
captivate anyone. To their surprise, said Teut seriously "There is perhaps
something is legitimate, madam. I'm a hater of the so-honest society lies
and retaliation that I ruthlessly my opinion, often enough express my
disgust. And of course, anyone who was not with comedy, is naturally
feared. "Olga came in a slightly uncomfortable feeling, it was almost
unthinkable that a man of good education so as Teut this remark against
them personally acuminate had, but she could hardly be otherwise, as they
relate to. It was also in its nature, does not like to go, because
she left her wisdom all too often, when their sensitivity, or their
vanity wounded.

They said so in a rather abrupt tone: "No, my fear is based on something
else, Mr. Captain. What you emphasize, might have in our movement is no
reason to give such a "" Certainly, "said Teut seriously, but let ignoble
train ironic angle to his mouth to play." And please, more, my Merciful?
"Mrs.

Olga lifted some excitement in the glass up, and just filled the Teut had
drank it, and hastily replied, laboriously caching their displeasure:
"I love the openness and Gradheit like you. This I can only meet with
respect and I will never instill discomfort. But your - "She paused." Well,
madam? "" Ah, just a lot! "Made Olga and jerked the armpits." What,
my gracious wife, "Teut said in a mandatory tone, but with the same
devilish smile," They invite me into your otherwise wonderful house
and want to torture myself to stretch? Is that Christian? I ask - if
not a bit worrying for me, the result should be - "" Yes, yes! That's
it! You are wicked! You's are also now! This is a feature that I However
fearsome, yes, I hate, because it giebt not against these weapons. "At
this moment, Mr Ink ans of glass and took one of his habitual spiritless
health. The woman appealed to Olga. "Very, very nice!" Teut threw
out and moving his head. Mrs. Olga had him with the silver fish knife can
kill. After dinner we went into the garden and took the coffee. It was a
trip by horse and wagon planned. Before the home had already Inkschen the
grooms with the riding horses and the coachman waited for the buck.

Teut, usually in a slight-built, calculated for two cars kutschierte
and its langgeschweifte, dark black Renner envied him on all sides,
provided the space Olga in his car.

She was very happy about this award, more so than in the past only
woman fort Ange Claire enjoyed such a course, so often enjoyed,
that the libel-addicted mouth of the city already this wagon with a
name of derision had occupied. The afternoon was wonderful. It was with
regard to the trip earlier fed, and it waved pleasant hours. When
everything fits together had been captain of chirp, the most
frequent guest of the house, a not entirely evil, but because of its
unbedachtsamen Schwätzereien Teut not too sympathetic comrade, the signal
for departure, and the merry cavalcade began to move. Even in the downhill
was a lot of people together, the colored coachman in their liveries,
and the magnificent horses anstaunte. Teut Allen went ahead with his
wife Olga. His Renner then flew away, and in That it was understandable
that the eyes of the population is particularly directed to this vehicle.
Was it you used to only offer the side of the captain to see, while the
no less now much discussed wife of ink next to the bizarre Rittmeister
dahinkutschierte. With a large power saw Olga preclude the moment, where
they participated in the Fort Claire Chen Villa would pass.
hinüberschauen Whether Teut well, although by chance the countess
on the balcony or in the garden be?

Olga's triumph over the much envied woman would have been perfect! But when
they reached the villa, the house was in the midst of its beautiful
park like extinct. Not even one of the children, even none of the servants
was visible. Suddenly, the horse - used here to hold - a quick side movement,
and Olga took Teuts arm involuntarily, by a faint cry ausstieß. "What
is my Merciful?

" Teut said shortly, and turned to glance at a rapid change from the
Villa to the animals and from these to her. Olga said apologetically,
and the car went on. "You seem to be somewhat scared! Would you like that
I go slower?" he went and pulled the reins on. Olga denied, although the
opposite was the case. "In addition to such a perfect horse handlebars,
you can not feel fear," she said, in their flattering tone falling back,
but they are ready, just used this word to , because Teut fell and cried,
laughing: "Ah, that is on the pedestal, I'm not dangerous, madam? If you
only will not be fooled!"

After several conversations between Olga again brought the issue to
Ange. She wanted something more they hear from his lips. "Mrs Claire Fort
is probably a splendid rider and, as I hear, even with four amazing
drive safely?" "However, she seeks her equal!" Teut said, just cancel
Olga made - with the whip in the distance the way - to a point pretty
carefully and gave out about this and in the surrounding lively praise
surveys. Olga understood. He did not want to talk by Claire forts. It
angered them that these people almost looked like his domain, and by his
dodging the distance seemed to want to suggest that between her and Ange
was. But you decided yet to make an attempt. Maybe she was just under
a bias! She took the latter, because they wanted it. "It interests me
very much of anything about Ms.

Claire continued to learn," she began. "I do not remember ever having
such a beautiful and interesting woman to meet, and it would be a
preference see her in person once more come to be. It is now very
seriously and have become almost exclusively to the education of their
children's attention? Incidentally, what a bunch of delightful creatures!
"Teut in these words fell Anges grief and all that again, which employed
him so vividly.

     Also, he appealed to the somewhat
     benign and intrusive nature Olgas, after he is sufficiently in the
day had it on his friends would not speak.

He said, therefore, quite in accordance with his nature: "My friends have
their handling of previously mentioned reasons much restricted and live
very withdrawn. Otherwise I would be ready with pleasure, the wife Countess
your desires to be transmitted, madam, and I am convinced confirmed
that you would find what I am already at the table about the family
announced.

Furthermore, it is possible that we leave Claire Fort, once the Count took
his farewell. "" Does he leave? " asked Olga, also a movement by their
thanks for expressing willingness Teuts. "I think we giebt him to the
Lord Count." "Who said that?" Teut went on and drew quick turn into a
Seitenpfad. "Well, I heard it, Mr. Captain. I am, however, by the tone
of your question and please taught to forgive. Incidentally circulate
about the family Clairefortsche so many conflicting messages and it
makes so often the subject of the conversation that it is difficult to
obtain a reasonably accurate picture of the same design. "Teut listened
eagerly awaiting. Both hands were employed, and only too happy if he
had twisted his mustache. "How I live quietly, dear friends are celebrating
as much discussed? It is the first time that I hear this. Well, I think
it may only good they say, madam," he said with forced carelessness.
Olga silent . As they saw their plans frustrated, she wanted to at least
their little woman revenge. Teut let the horses in the step, saw
with a misinterpreted glance at his companion and said: "They are silent,
my madam. I ask because you touched the issue of . 'Well! thought Olga
drove loud and continued: "Does it surprise you that you have a lady
speaks so different habits, like Ms. Claire Fort, the rides, and even
sits on the pedestal, so beautiful and so lively, whose husband
before the world with his mysterious valet closes, and with such an unusual
effort to set up home care to a sudden they say so - an almost timid to
introduce austerity? "broke from Olga. What she said was not offensive,
but they knew that every word had offend Teut. "They said that not me.
But I belong to the articles of this very superfluous considerations
of public worship. You do not want to have the goodness, now also the
views about me attached," said Teut, without a face. "I believe only
the Thatsachen from which the judgments and opinions are concluded to have
played, Mr. Captain. "" Quite, my Merciful. Thatsachen And who relate
to me? "" You are a daily guest in the home, and always appear in public
next to the wife of Fort Claire - "" However, further, if I may ask? ""
Now, therefore, believes the public have a right to have comments
to make, and indeed the course of any unbiased damned. "" Ah, great!

And to these unbiased includes you, madam, and the Intimus your house,
Lord of chirp? "The tone in which these words Teut said, however, was
impertinent, even offensive, but the view with which Olga said, gave
no . The interview was stopped, and a rather embarrassing sentiment appealed
both to the other part of the way back. Before Teut was a curtain drawn
back, whose background terrified him. He bit on the lips and gritted
their teeth. This angel had dared to suspect, and a woman as his
companion found a malicious pleasure in playing such posturing. Teut see
through Olga only too well. Since it the prospect, with Ange to come
into contact, she let the mask fall and showed their true face - anger
and remorse dug into her. She felt that by talking to had lost
everything. Their escape, perhaps even, what with a little more self-control
would be able to obtain: the future for dealing with it too interesting
Rittmeister. And this insight, but also the hope that perhaps he could
forget, led them back to the first to speak, and in as unbiased
manner indifferent conversation touching objects. It was so relieved
her, as is now close to the target, and some men, including several
from Teuts comrades, herangaloppierend to the car approached.
March found it tiresome
beyond the tiresome wont of palaces, and he gladly shook off the sense of
it with his felt shoes. "Well," he confided to his wife when they were
fairly out-of-doors, "if Prussia rose in the strength of silence, as
Carlyle wants us to believe, she is taking it out in talk now, and tall
talk."

"Yes, isn't she!" Mrs. March assented, and with a passionate desire for
excess in a bad thing, which we all know at times, she looked eagerly
about her for proofs of that odious militarism of the empire, which ought
to have been conspicuous in the imperial capital; but possibly because
the troops were nearly all away at the manoeuvres, there were hardly more
in the streets than she had sometimes seen in Washington. Again the
German officers signally failed to offer her any rudeness when she met
them on the side-walks. There were scarcely any of them, and perhaps that
might have been the reason why they were not more aggressive; but a whole
company of soldiers marching carelessly up to the palace from the
Brandenburg gate, without music, or so much style as our own militia
often puts on, regarded her with inoffensive eyes so far as they looked
at her. She declared that personally there was nothing against the
Prussians; even when in uniform they were kindly and modest-looking men;
it was when they got up on pedestals, in bronze or marble, that they,
began to bully and to brag.


LXIV.

The dinner which the Marches got at a restaurant on Unter den Linden
almost redeemed the avenue from the disgrace it had fallen into with
them. It was, the best meal they had yet eaten in Europe, and as to fact
and form was a sort of compromise between a French dinner and an English
dinner which they did not hesitate to pronounce Prussian. The waiter who
served it was a friendly spirit, very sensible of their intelligent
appreciation of the dinner; and from him they formed a more respectful
opinion of Berlin civilization than they had yet held. After the manner
of strangers everywhere they judged the country they were visiting from
such of its inhabitants as chance brought them in contact with; and it
would really be a good thing for nations that wish to stand well with the
world at large to look carefully to the behavior of its cabmen and car
conductors, its hotel clerks and waiters, its theatre-ticket sellers and
ushers, its policemen and sacristans, its landlords and salesmen; for by
these rather than by its society women and its statesmen and divines, is
it really judged in the books of travellers; some attention also should
be paid to the weather, if the climate is to be praised. In the railroad
cafe at Potsdam there was a waiter so rude to the Marches that if they
had not been people of great strength of character he would have undone
the favorable impression the soldiers and civilians of Berlin generally
had been at such pains to produce in them; and throughout the week of
early September which they passed there, it rained so much and so
bitterly, it was so wet and so cold, that they might have come away
thinking it's the worst climate in the world, if it had not been for a
man whom they saw in one of the public gardens pouring a heavy stream
from his garden hose upon the shrubbery already soaked and shuddering in
the cold. But this convinced them that they were suffering from weather
and not from the climate, which must really be hot and dry; and they went
home to their hotel and sat contentedly down in a temperature of sixty
degrees. The weather, was not always so bad; one day it was dry cold
instead of wet cold, with rough, rusty clouds breaking a blue sky;
another day, up to eleven in the forenoon, it was like Indian summer;
then it changed to a harsh November air; and then it relented and ended
so mildly, that they hired chairs in the place before the imperial palace
for five pfennigs each, and sat watching the life before them. Motherly
women-folk were there knitting; two American girls in chairs near them
chatted together; some fine equipages, the only ones they saw in Berlin,
went by; a dog and a man (the wife who ought to have been in harness was
probably sick, and the poor fellow was forced to take her place) passed
dragging a cart; some schoolboys who had hung their satchels upon the low
railing were playing about the base of the statue of King William III. in
the joyous freedom of German childhood.

They seemed the gayer for the brief moments of sunshine, but to the
Americans, who were Southern by virtue of their sky, the brightness had a
sense of lurking winter in it, such as they remembered feeling on a sunny
day in Quebec. The blue heaven looked sad; but they agreed that it fitly
roofed the bit of old feudal Berlin which forms the most ancient wing of
the Schloss. This was time-blackened and rude, but at least it did not
try to be French, and it overhung the Spree which winds through the city
and gives it the greatest charm it has. In fact Berlin, which is
otherwise so grandiose without grandeur and so severe without
impressiveness, is sympathetic wherever the Spree opens it to the sky.
The stream is spanned by many bridges, and bridges cannot well be
unpicturesque, especially if they have statues to help them out. The
Spree abounds in bridges, and it has a charming habit of slow hay-laden
barges; at the landings of the little passenger-steamers which ply upon
it there are cafes and summer-gardens, and these even in the inclement
air of September suggested a friendly gayety.

The Marches saw it best in the tour of the elevated road in Berlin which
they made in an impassioned memory of the elevated road in New York. The
brick viaducts which carry this arch the Spree again and again in their
course through and around the city, but with never quite such spectacular
effects as our spidery tressels, achieve. The stations are pleasant,
sometimes with lunch-counters and news-stands, but have not the
comic-opera-chalet prettiness of ours, and are not so frequent. The road
is not so smooth, the cars not so smooth-running or so swift. On the
other hand they are comfortably cushioned, and they are never
overcrowded. The line is at times above, at times below the houses, and
at times on a level with them, alike in city and in suburbs. The train
whirled out of thickly built districts, past the backs of the old houses,
into outskirts thinly populated, with new houses springing up without
order or continuity among the meadows and vegetable-gardens, and along
the ready-made, elm-planted avenues, where wooden fences divided the
vacant lots. Everywhere the city was growing out over the country, in
blocks and detached edifices of limestone, sandstone, red and yellow
brick, larger or smaller, of no more uniformity than our suburban
dwellings, but never of their ugliness or lawless offensiveness.

In an effort for the intimate life of the country March went two
successive mornings for his breakfast to the Cafe Bauer, which has some
admirable wall-printings, and is the chief cafe on Unter den Linden; but
on both days there were more people in the paintings than out of them.
The second morning the waiter who took his order recognized him and
asked, "Wie gestern?" and from this he argued an affectionate constancy
in the Berliners, and a hospitable observance of the tastes of strangers.
The jeweler had to draw suspicion and was in itself That the reason that
the arrest took place. What is it you know about the case, madam? "Ange
told what they knew. She told that she sent a telegram in which the call
was received, immediately after Frankfurt to rush. And while they
were being discussed, came to her, it seemed like an appropriate comment.
"The fact that I am the Countess of Fort'm Claire, Commissioner," she
continued, "may be enough to shed that only I without a doubt with your
permission could receive emissaries Depesche and those also in That
received. Wanted the arrested insert a different personality, which may
seem to you, so he had to either be a notice or in the mean time with
me. How is it done?

I declare that I am the Countess of Fort'm Claire, I have instructed my
servant, my diamonds to sell, and that he only delicacy from my name
failed. The circumstances which led him to be so sad kind "- Ange
paused, and lowered the eye -" It is just that something would be obvious,
Mr Commissioner, if you would have known this. "The officers saw movement
and laid Anges it by a few words like his participation in the day. Then
he took on the position itself, and said: "What you cite as an infallible
proof, my Madam, is not for me. I ask that only the one case should
be considered, and such is unzähligemal occurred. What can on such
occasions not to be denied and aforethought! Triggers the swindler or
a thief too inconvenient, he described the discharge as a witness to him
in the league standing personality, so in this case around - Ms. Claire
called Fort. This will make their statements, and common, to a
third person executed theft - who knows where, in Paris, Madrid or elsewhere
in the world - not only remains undiscovered, but the move still
Komplicen with triumphant mien from. - Without doubt, everything
behaves in this case is not, as I have explained here, but remember
that it could be possible and the responsibility weighs on me.

My many shops in general, allow me not to talk with witnesses
to invite discussions about eventualities. I go strictly according to my
rules. If satisfied, what I legally have to ask, I advance to the
test and decide. Legitimize yourself, and I will record your messages,
such as the Tibet compare them both to confront and, if I win the
conviction that a false suspicion, with the greatest Genugthuung dismiss
your servant and you come into possession of your property set. "Ange
had discouraged his head will fall." So it giebt no - no way out, Mr.
Commissioner? "she asked and looked at him with moist eyes." concerns
you kindly! I am a single lady!

I am still under the after-effects of a grief so severe, my husband
has just died.

I tear myself from everything and hurry off here, now I will return again!
Then there was the embarrassment in this matter with the local authorities
to negotiate! - Diamond theft! Arrest! It sounds as if a crime really
existed, and yet everything is as accurate as possible.

I beg, I implore you, help me! I swear to you that I speak the truth! I see
like an impostor? Your sharp eye must be guessed that I speak the whole
truth! "The official thought a moment, then he said:" My personal
feelings I may not follow. These speak to your favor, madam - I
please, calm down.

"(Ange broke out in Thränen.)" I want you to make a suggestion: I will
be master of the police in C. telegraph. Does this search, that you
live in C., departed yesterday are - when, please, what train? - Very
well - and also your Signalement the one attached to your servant -
you would eventually, the original of the despatch me handed out which
you received from your servant, so I would be sufficiently covered,
and promise you a speedy investigation and discharge. "Ange breathed
relief." When may I once again appear, Mr. Commissioner? "" I think
tomorrow morning I will owned all of what is required. "" Not before?
"threw disappointed Ange admits." I do not think it will be possible.
"" And my servant, may I speak? "" I am sorry, madam -- "" But
yet he could be notified that I am here and that everything is set! They
would connect me. The poor man is in a terrible trouble, and you understand
that I would like him to liberate. " "This Please, I want to fulfill your
specific request, madam." The Commissioner bell rang. "I thank you for
this special consideration, Sir," said Ange, strongly emphasizing. The
officers politely bowed his head and stood up. "So in ten clock tomorrow.
I stand then to services. I commend myself to you, madam." A silent bow,
once again, thank you word, then Ange was out there. "After the
Pelzhandlung M.," "Street? Number?" Ange replied, rose, and the car
rolled to continue. After ten minutes they were on the spot. They
brought their concerns before and waited impatiently for the decision.
This was done only after a long time. "We have in the whole not much
inclination to purchase, even though the fur is very beautiful,"
said the trader, who with his environment was discussed.

"For such goods, we have almost no use. However, you want him with eighty
Thaler concerning the transaction can be made." For weeks Ange had not
felt so happy. It would have aufjauchzen can to facilitate their souls.
Eighty Thaler! They had expected more, since the fur had tasted several
hundreds, but they received money - even money, and - then there was
everything else. Ange nodded, that still a question due to repurchase,
the amount received and removed it. After an absence of nearly two hours
now, she returned again back to the hotel. * * * * * Who's life is
observed, it is found that those enjoying the highest reputation,
all the time, head over the heart, and in That these people are the
proper maintenance of our social relationships.

What should today be a world in which people referred to the ideal
requirements of a biblical sermon Berg wanted to act? Anders about the
happiness of such people. The thousands of stimuli, which the human mind
to participate - and this may also only exist in the interaction between
success and disappointment - avoid them. The human mind enjoys every
second, the human mind often lacks everything. That is up to the
grave in a delicious noise, this - often without major battle
with the outside world, the illusions bar, learns the true magic of life
do not know. Ange had the terrible seriousness of their situation
understood, and the firm resolve, a new, mandatory loyalty based
on your life, was strong and alive in it has become, but their
fun-loving and carefree belief inexperience but easily won the upper
hand and seduced them, the more impulse of the moment to follow,
as the end of things happen need to be considered.

Strengthened by new hopes and in possession of some funds, temporarily
blurred impressions of the last few days, and with the incentive
halbbewußten, their happy mood to get passed it after the lunch received
the main streets, looked into the shops and looked at with naive joy
everything new is offered her eye. The beautiful objects which in the
windows were out, appealed to their shopping pleasure. What you liked,
she had always received so far - have requested or purchased
themselves, they never found the slightest resistance. Now it was the
children! Instead, one day they would continue to remain many days! That
had their favorites but in somewhat compensated! In this sense she Drange
a magazine and chose from: there was something for the little Ange,
here something for Jorinde and Fred, and since none of the children
could be favored, they also bought some nice About Ben and fluids
for Erna.

As the seller of the bill totaled, frightened Ange. But then she is the
joy and jubilation of the kids that thought again of the many hardships
which they suffer by their absence would, without hesitation, and ordered
to submit articles. And yet emerged, as they out there for thought came,
a well-known serious and tadelndes on her face, so she heard a voice
which she gently scolded her and zurief: "Never will you experience the
life you like to use it! Always knowing you will not be wise!" It was Teut,
also this time in front of their eyes appeared. Ange shocked herself
before her self-knowledge has come since she learned Teut, decisions were
in their maturity, after Carlos davongegangen in distress and they had
left, but the walk through the school of life was too short to be fully
effective practice. The rest of the day used it to get to the children
and again to write Teut. In their first letters to him she had just given
a customer by Carlos' sudden death, now she asked the friend, her in her
position to advise. With its Zartgefühl zauderte them long to touch the
future. War in this case, the Council solicit not synonymous with a
claim to Teuts renewed friendship opferthätige? Nevertheless Ange wrote.
Once it the spring from the hand made, once again had to read over
everything, and now the letter Einfalt wanted, suddenly rose pride and
shame as hot fire in her upwards. You zauderte, and this hesitation
was a unalterable decision. Ange tore what they entrusted the paper, and
threw into the chimney's. It was a painful, violent conflict, which brought
in its interior. Here waved carelessness, abundance, perhaps, but at least
everything that would protect their children from the cruelty of
life.

There, in the future, were hard work, deprivation and all the crew of
this appalling Quälhexe of existence. And yet and yet! Already the
previous Wohlthaten Teuts burned like glowing iron in their souls. And
they still proliferate - Never! At any price! It was now, as it
was! Something stayed! Darbe they would not if they sold everything.
At best, they fled from the friends for ever, all the more so because she
loved him and because they love to ravish a yielding weakness was that
they would certainly regret it. * * * * * Four days after just told
to sit Ange and Tibet in one room of the Hotel de Russie opposite. The
latter was the day before release from detention, and had Anges property
back.

Also he had, the call of his mistress Following taken place and a respectful
attitude entäußert, under the existing conditions also appear as secondary
had something. "Finally, finally, my good, good Tibet!" Ange said and
gave the faithful man's hand.

"And now tell! If everything went well? How much did you receive?" About
Tibet face flew a satisfied smile, he took the side pocket of his skirt
and Ange presented a paper, which is curiously looked at this, but again
without understanding the left hand. "There is a check to the company
Erlanger, Mrs. Countess. Fünfundfünfzigtausend Mark, we have
received." "How? Fünfundfünfzigtausend Mark? wide, not Tibet?" Ange
called naive and full of joy. "I think we would get more, Madam Countess,
if -" "When?" "The Countess woman wanted a speedy execution. If I were
in the offer apparently had pulled a long deliberation, it would
possibly a higher price has been!

"" Maybe, maybe, Tibet! But under the given circumstances - "" If
the wife Countess my request would have met if I had provisionally
allowed to enter - "" Now you have come back with the old things! Is
it because it was not a good thing? Fünfundfünfzigtausend Mark! This
is far beyond my expectation! What do you mean, Tibet, that the
sale of my organization will bring? Had the Count insured? Do you
know something about it? "" It is a very large sum, Madam Countess.
I do not remember exactly how much it was.

The paintings in the salon have a significant value. "" Ah, so I do
not quite a poor church mouse would be, how high is our debt, the arrears
payments lately? "" You are not insignificant, Mrs. Countess. But if
Mrs. Countess, which I do not hope to sell the facility, will
probably certainly twice the out come of what I am today for the diamonds
have achieved. " "So far, Tibet, very much!

Let's say that I am one hundred thousand marks remain - I will
probably keep this after the debt, even those of Baron von Teut,
are worn out?

- Yes - You do not know? - Well, we suppose that I would so much - how
much interest giebt of the capital? "" Four thousand marks, if it is to
be sure, Madam Countess. "" Four thousand marks - and so should we find
ourselves in a small town may not be up modestly, how happy I am
that at least my children will receive the remains, "sighed Tibet. He
seemed in no Anges hopes to share. "Well. You doubters, what is it
now?" "The Lord Baron will certainly not suffer from the fact that the
Countess Sell your institution. Because of the diamond, I will seriously
stand with him, . 'But Tibet repented what he had spoken, because the
woman who sat opposite him, said in a completely changed and no contradiction
duldenden tone: "What does Mr. von Teut with these matters thun?

Is it my guardian? I wish absolutely no interference with my money matters
by his side. And so you know, once and for all know, Tibet: I forbid
you, without my will and my consent to the Baron of any communications
about my relationships to make. Yes, even more. If I C., what will happen
immediately, leaving, he may not know my stay. I would have any
expression on your part, which is done without my approval as an
indiscretion, or even as a betrayal to view, and you would lose my
friendship, which you now hold so highly. "" Mrs. Countess - "" And
everywhere and for clarification about what I am unalterably decided
to Tibet, "Ange went without objection of Tibet should be noted
that in a man to perhaps inappropriate, but their nature corresponding
openness continues," remember this: You will understand, and I am
telling you because we are at this moment not to sit as a mistress
and servant, but as two long years and now also with a sad fate
linked individuals.

It giebt anyone in the world, which I appreciate as much as the Baron von
Teut, he is my best, my faithful friend, as you, Tibet, it spoiled my
husband have been. But the duration of the friendship is almost
always due to similarity of living conditions. Since these have changed,
so could our existing good agreement suffer damage, and under all
circumstances to prevent such, I will avoid it in future. I know him.
His generous hand can not close, but I do not want Wohlthaten received,
and if I should go hungry! It yields to all. Also we must separate, my
brave Tibet! I can offer you nothing and you can not hold back, another
to seek safe bread. "" What - me too want to join you, Madam Countess?
"Cried Tibet." I will not come from me! Ah, Tibet, I separate myself
from you too hard. But confess yourself!

My income is subsequently to be small, my family is numerous and I can
not reward you as I want. Yes, even more: I can tell you do not - "" I
wish also nothing, Madam Countess. I ask only for you and the children
to be allowed to remain, which my heart has grown. "The final sentence
said Tibet, this incorrigible egotist, not without calculation. And he
is not mistaken about the effect of his words. Whenever the children in
question were, Ange was again weak or vacillating.

They were full of tenderness to the old servant of the house. She can
imagine how good he always was with them, as he knew their weaknesses and
how favorably he always had an influence; so, what privation would
happen if he was no longer in their vicinity would be.

Ange shook because only the head, they moved him as someone who does not
no and do not say yes to the interview.

But finally won again but the Wise the upper hand and she said: "But
no - no, Tibet.

They are no longer young - you want the best you have is by yearly wither,
even with the prospect in a dependency come, which certainly a
careless age performs?

"" That is assured, Madam Countess.

I have a small capital, as you from my humble offer of already learned. My
aim is not money! Let me at least temporarily stay with you! The next
time so much! First, I will be arranging the whole in C. must obtain,
then the parade, the creation, the acclimatization to the new
conditions. It certainly requires a year in which I can make you useful.
"Ange saw the excellent people in the eye, and a steel Thräne of emotion
into their own." Well, on one condition, Tibet! "She decided, while they
their feelings zurückdrängte "You promise me that you have previously
expressed my wishes that you are the Baron von Teut -" Tibet had at
the first words the head tilted grateful, now there was an unmistakable
expression of anxiety in his features. "Well, Tibet? "Ange is broke."
May I speak openly, Mrs. Countess? "Ange nodded, took a small object that
lay on the table, rolled it in her hand up and down and listened with a
hint of tension." I gave Mr Baron von Teut farewell at my word, Madam
Countess, all communication from him to do what the Count's family
anbeträfe.

I mean, "he quickly made a proud sight Anges eyes added," it immediately
to post, even if the offense inconvenient circumstances should arise. I
promised it after some hesitation, because earlier - then, when Mr. Baron
first nature intervened into the house - I had rejected any such
effrontery. Now I certainly knew that I have something good, you just
enable Utilities could lead, and saying what he wanted from me. But
something else, Madam Countess: Baron the Lord is, as far as I
know, blessed by the Lord to Count guardian of the children used,
and the same has given him power of attorney, your financial affairs
independently in the hands.

Have you nothing in the last will of the Lord Count - found in his
will? "" Ah! "Muttered Ange and how excited absent before hinstarrend."
And also, Madam Countess, "- went Tibet, gaining courage, continued
- "What benefits will it have if you sell everything? They need a
facility but also in another place! And believe the woman Gräfin not that
Mr. Baron will soon discover where you are staying, and he will not - "Ange
stood up and walked in the room restlessly up and down. They moved to
the chairs with plush-related, plucking on the tablecloth, and met with
the little feet a schnitzel Chen paper under the sofa.

"No," she said, and was directed upwards. "I know nothing of this last
will of my husband, and I was not so among its papers. What should
also serve? I'm not even the natural guardian of my children? "And
after a short pause, she, in its naive tone falling back, continued:"
Should I add because if really such an agreement would be available? ""
Without doubt, Mrs. Countess. " "Well, then it may be! Maybe the guardian
guess, but - "Ange was in the chair back and moving in a strong
excitation the head. What they just spoken, had unwittingly hervorgedrängt.
There was nothing that was transmitted to Tibet. He understood
this also, because he tactfully silent. "My children should be" - highlighted
by a new offer to - "Efficient learn something, and if it is a craft. The
sooner they are powerful people, the more they can earn their bread.
That is my concern must be addressed. Admittedly, for the girls it's
hard, I will see what they understand and subsequently exploit useful
property. That is my plan and my absolute determination. Where I cherish
can give me relief - relief that you Unbemittelten in schools through
scholarships granted in similar cases, I will do a search. Will I be
able, to take a loan, then I will consider as a business - in short, to
Tibet, I go my own straight path, and nothing, nothing will bring me
back or hold! "" Certainly, certainly, Mrs. Countess, "confirmed einlenkend
Tibet and fully amazement. Was that the same woman he has been so many
years in almost helpless way to see him move, which is always like
an inexperienced, from any impulse-driven nature traded, which
even a Teut of his time to their children's sake abgebettelt what
they do as fairly and reasonably realized?

She asked August, when
she gave him her father's order, to have a cup of tea sent to her room,
where, when it came, she remained thinking so long that it was rather
tepid by the time she drank it.

Then she went to her window, and looked out, first above and next below.
Above, the moon was hanging over the gardened hollow before the Museum
with the airy lightness of an American moon. Below was Burnamy behind the
tubbed evergreens, sitting tilted in his chair against the house wall,
with the spark of his cigar fainting and flashing like an American
firefly. Agatha went down to the door, after a little delay, and seemed
surprised to find him there; at least she said, "Oh!" in a tone of
surprise.

Burnamy stood up, and answered, "Nice night."

"Beautiful!" she breathed. "I didn't suppose the sky in Germany could
ever be so clear."

"It seems to be doing its best."

"The flowers over there look like ghosts in the light," she said
dreamily.

"They're not. Don't you want to get your hat and wrap, and go over and
expose the fraud?"

"Oh," she answered, as if it were merely a question of the hat and wrap,
"I have them."

They sauntered through the garden walks for a while, long enough to have
ascertained that there was not a veridical phantom among the flowers, if
they had been looking, and then when they came to their accustomed seat,
they sat down, and she said, "I don't know that I've seen the moon so
clear since we left Carlsbad." At the last word his heart gave a jump
that seemed to lodge it in his throat and kept him from speaking, so that
she could resume without interruption, "I've got something of yours, that
you left at the Posthof. The girl that broke the dishes found it, and
Lili gave it to Mrs. March for you." This did not account for Agatha's
having the thing, whatever it was; but when she took a handkerchief from
her belt, and put out her hand with it toward him, he seemed to find that
her having it had necessarily followed. He tried to take it from her, but
his own hand trembled so that it clung to hers, and he gasped, "Can't you
say now, what you wouldn't say then?"

The logical sequence was no more obvious than be fore; but she apparently
felt it in her turn as he had felt it in his. She whispered back, "Yes,"
and then she could not get out anything more till she entreated in a
half-stifled voice, "Oh, don't!"

"No, no!" he panted. "I won't--I oughtn't to have done it--I beg your
pardon--I oughtn't to have spoken,--even--I--"

She returned in a far less breathless and tremulous fashion, but still
between laughing and crying, "I meant to make you. And now, if you're
ever sorry, or I'm ever too topping about anything, you can be perfectly
free to say that you'd never have spoken if you hadn't seen that I wanted
you to."

"But I didn't see any such thing," he protested. "I spoke because I
couldn't help it any longer."

She laughed triumphantly. "Of course you think so! And that shows that
you are only a man after all; in spite of your finessing. But I am going
to have the credit of it. I knew that you were holding back because you
were too proud, or thought you hadn't the right, or something. Weren't
you?" She startled him with the sudden vehemence of her challenge: "If
you pretend, that you weren't I shall never forgive you!"

"But I was! Of course I was. I was afraid--"

"Isn't that what I said?" She triumphed over him with another laugh, and
cowered a little closer to him, if that could be.

They were standing, without knowing how they had got to their feet; and
now without any purpose of the kind, they began to stroll again among the
garden paths, and to ask and to answer questions, which touched every
point of their common history, and yet left it a mine of inexhaustible
knowledge for all future time. Out of the sweet and dear delight of this
encyclopedian reserve two or three facts appeared with a present
distinctness. One of these was that Burnamy had regarded her refusal to
be definite at Carlsbad as definite refusal, and had meant never to see
her again, and certainly never to speak again of love to her. Another
point was that she had not resented his coming back that last night, but
had been proud and happy in it as proof of his love, and had always meant
somehow to let him know that she was torched by his trusting her enough
to come back while he was still under that cloud with Mr. Stoller. With
further logic, purely of the heart, she acquitted him altogether of wrong
in that affair, and alleged in proof, what Mr. Stoller had said of it to
Mr. March. Burnamy owned that he knew what Stoller had said, but even in
his present condition he could not accept fully her reading of that
obscure passage of his life. He preferred to put the question by, and
perhaps neither of them cared anything about it except as it related to
the fact that they were now each other's forever.

They agreed that they must write to Mr. and Mrs. March at once; or at
least, Agatha said, as soon as she had spoken to her father. At her
mention of her father she was aware of a doubt, a fear, in Burnamy which
expressed itself by scarcely more than a spiritual consciousness from his
arm to the hands which she had clasped within it. "He has always
appreciated you," she said courageously, "and I know he will see it in
the right light."

She probably meant no more than to affirm her faith in her own ability
finally to bring her father to a just mind concerning it; but Burnamy
accepted her assurance with buoyant hopefulness, and said he would see
General Triscoe the first thing in the morning.

"No, I will see him," she said, "I wish to see him first; he will expect
it of me. We had better go in, now," she added, but neither made any
motion for the present to do so. On the contrary, they walked in the
other direction, and it was an hour after Agatha declared their duty in
the matter before they tried to fulfil it.

Then, indeed, after they returned to the hotel, she lost no time in going
to her father beyond that which must be given to a long hand-pressure
under the fresco of the five poets on the stairs landing, where her ways
and Burnamy's parted. She went into her own room, and softly opened the
door into her father's and listened.

"Well?" he said in a sort of challenging voice.

"Have you been asleep?" she asked.

"I've just blown out my light. What has kept you?"

She did not reply categorically. Standing there in the sheltering dark,
she said, "Papa, I wasn't very candid with you, this afternoon. I am
engaged to Mr. Burnamy."

"Light the candle," said her father. "Or no," he added before she could
do so. "Is it quite settled?"

"Quite," she answered in a voice that admitted of no doubt. "That is, as
far as it can be, without you."

"Don't be a hypocrite, Agatha," said the general. "And let me try to get
to sleep. You know I don't like it, and you know I can't help it."

"Yes," the girl assented.

"Then go to bed," said the general concisely.

Agatha did not obey her father. She thought she ought to kiss him, but
she decided that she had better postpone this; so she merely gave him a
tender goodnight, to which he made no response, and shut herself into her
own room, where she remained sitting and staring out into the moonlight,
with a smile that never left her lips.

When the moon sank below the horizon, the sky was pale with the coming
day, but before it was fairly dawn, she saw something white, not much
greater than some moths, moving before her window. She pulled the valves
open and found it a bit of paper attached to a thread dangling from
above. She broke it loose and in the morning twilight she read the great
central truth of the universe:

"I love you. L. J. B."

She wrote under the tremendous inspiration:

"So do I. Don't be silly. A. T."

She fastened the paper to the thread again, and gave it a little twitch.
She waited for the low note of laughter which did not fail to flutter
down from above; then she threw herself upon the bed, and fell asleep.

It was not so late as she thought when she woke, and it seemed, at
breakfast, that Burnamy had been up still earlier. Of the three involved
in the anxiety of the night before General Triscoe was still respited
from it by sleep, but he woke much more haggard than either of the young
people. They, in fact, were not at all haggard; the worst was over, if
bringing their engagement to his knowledge was the worst; the formality
of asking his consent which Burnamy still had to go through was
unpleasant, but after all it was a formality. Agatha told him everything
that had passed between herself and her father, and if it had not that
cordiality on his part which they could have wished it was certainly not
hopelessly discouraging.

They agreed at breakfast that Burnamy had better have it over as quickly
as possible, and he waited only till August came down with the general's
tray before going up to his room. "I, I?" Tibet replied naively and
embarrassed at the same time. "I have all morning to clean the boots, the
- the - in the coarser work sleep offices concerned and the beds made and
children - and also cooked at the time.

Cooking wife Countess can not, but they learn it very well . Recently
we had two dishes, which they alone had prepared. Their eyes shone,
the children than it tasted so good. The Women's Countess was so happy
that they are in the room herumtanzte. "" But, friend! " Teut apparently
shifted tadelnd On. "Why have you not then made a help?" "The woman wanted
Countess it is not, Gracious Lord, you said that it was the best way to
learn. Of course, I also followed thun nothing - but I was surprised and
even in one night with the help of a woman's laundry worried. The old woman
has the wardrobe items made, I made myself to table napkins and stuff.
Towards morning we hung up, everyone's part. "" Respect All!

" Teut muttered, hurriedly drank in the trains and gave anew from
the cylinder a.

"In That, above all praise sublime! But it must still be otherwise!"

And after a pause: "If I only knew one way -" Tibet had only half heard,
but enough to understand.

He took in the concern for his mistress, the permission pact, and
said: "If the Lord will allow me Baron wanted to make a proposal?"

Teut moving the proud head, and said in his brief, sounding impolite
way: "Well what the heck?

"Tibet was intimidated by that sound.

He feared that a confidentiality have to be appropriated to him not
zukam.

Tact and caution were calling to him in the previous limits. He therefore
replied quickly: "Oh, it was nothing, Gracious Lord -" Teut looked
up and saw that Tibet with the expression of a certain disappointment
in front of him sat.

He understood and repented his harshness.

Without a return to the subject, which touched that side of him
after the wonderful emotional fluctuations, which everyone, even
the best and most unprejudiced person, company, suddenly was
reluctant, he said: "One matter I will but today the same touching
Tibet.

My condition prevents me to introduce to you to write so far: From
the first of next month are you with me for life as a secretary
engaged.

It will give you three hundred marks a month from my Rendanten paid. All
costs incurred since your last year, let me quickly give up, and
the fee for the time verflossene I will arrange.

Do you agree, Tibet? "Mr. Baron! - Gracious Lord!" called Tibet.
He rose and bowed his overflowing sensation in the face at the hand of
the man, his words accompanied with a look which, in all the
fullness of his heart reflected incomparable.

"However, washing and cooking is now over! This does not fit for the secretary
and confidant of Mr. von Teut-Eder, is not it? And now we want to continue
talking tomorrow, Tibet, it is cool, I have at home, Jamp, Jamp! "he cried
with his dashing voice, and it ran, for him to escort the Gartenhaus.
moths and white moths summer wandered through the warm air.

Yonder zirpte it in the dark garden, and from the lawn penetrated the soft
earthy smell of summer. In the Rose Hotel but lights flashed through
the whole house, and through the evening stillness sounded again
delayed laughter is HASCH children.

For a time, Tibet was like dreaming there. Finally he threw the gaze into
the sky, and a steel Thräne in the serious eyes of the man. He
thought of his ruined life and happiness of the people he loved -
his already half a year after marriage incurably ill wife, his
mother, his sister - but the wet, which came into his eyes, entquoll
this time of indescribable feeling that is now safe for the future
that is guaranteed. * * * * * has been Tibet the next morning for
breakfast to Teut ordered and found the Major, surrounded by thousands
Seven things on tables and chairs umherlagen already busy writing.

He wore a short skirt silk house, and around the open neck was a
white cloth loosely from the same cloth slung.

From the sleeves looked a fine Batistmanschette out, and his foot stuck
in a red leather boot. "Good morning, Mr. Secretary!" cried Teut without
turn.

"Please, take a seat! Did you sleep well?" Tibet affirmed. "May I inquire
how Mr. Baron place?" "Ah - not the best, Tibet!

Deuced The thing concerns me too much. Like ants running the thoughts in
my head around. But I think now a way to have found . Here, the
Major turned around, saw that Tibet still stood, and broke his
record by the repeated call for a chair to take.

"So, as I already said yesterday, Tibet, then the matter goes to the
length but not! " Teut lifted, it limped through the room, waved from
the herbeieilenden Tibet, bell, gave the Jamp entering a command
and was then at the breakfast table down.

With intense participation saw Tibet as unbehilflich so far as the
solid core, strong man with the artificial leg moved, and what
traces of strain and illness on his face had left behind. "Help yourself!
- So, Tibet, so it's not. That is why I asked you also to visit me here.
They should speak with the Countess and I have a plan, hopefully they will
agree. The summer holidays are in front of the door, the Countess will
certainly want to make their kids a pleasure to prepare and even a little
after all the excitement and worries to dissipate. I will invite them
to the castle Eder zuzubringen these weeks, and wants my cousin,
the Countess Aspern, write, then the Honor to make.

I will then perhaps - later on - and, take this opportunity to seek
out what I have been the death of the Count in me around .
What do you think about Tibet? "" excellence, Mr. Baron, but I fear
that the wife Countess this invitation a firm will receive no. We have
so often talked about these things - everything was fruitless.

The woman is the Countess - -may I speak quite frankly, Mr. Baron? "-
Teut raised his head, nodded and separated just with the silver spoon
shattered shell of an egg .--" The Lady Countess assumes that the gracious
Lord they affect wants to live and present way of life to change. On the
other hand they are reluctant - the Lord Baron know the reasons - at
least in part - "" Hm - in part?

" Teut. asked "Is it something else than what you sent me and what I stated
in the character of the Countess also probably understand it?" Tibet
twitched his shoulders, the only face of a man who probably wants
to talk, but it's not married.

"Well?" researched Teut impatient. But then in a different tone about
largely, he said: "One for all, Tibet, I called you yesterday, my
confidant, but even more, I consider you as my friend!

Say what it is!

The fate of the welfare of this woman concerns me more than my own.
The purpose, indeed the whole purpose of my life is to make them happy.
I promised at the Count's farewell, and a lot sooner had I's even
zugeschworen.

All of you know best. So why hinterm Mountains hold, where this project
can be used? - Ah!

" Teut went sighing heavily and stressing continued and leaned
back.

"I should not only cripple their, we are not sitting here and
discussed!

Only this fact has prevented me - everything would be long -" He
drove with his hand over his face and an expression of deep sorrow
remained in his trains are liable.

"Well, Mr. Baron," said Tibet, soon the rest of the breakfast sandwiches
hinabschluckend his Lord and looking into the eye, "because when I speak,
how's about my heart is - I think - I mean - the Madam Countess - a -
deep slant to the merciful Lord, and it's all about looking for!

If the woman is so shy Countess retires, so - so - "Tibet Teuts peered
anxiously at the face while he spoke.

Despite all the encouragement he was under the impression that, just so he
would never be addressed. Teut had just collected to a cigar to
fetch.

After Tibet's words, he remained at the window and looked out wordlessly
long. When he turned back, he looked with friendly Ernst Tibet into the
eye and shook his head. "You are mistaken, Tibet! Cheating certainly is!
And if not - if not - no, I have such thoughts buried once and for
all -" Well, he went again to the window and left huge clouds of
smoke through the room lighted cigar float.

The penetrating ray of sunshine she started and turned it on in light
blue. One was a long pause, without a syllable was spoken. "Ah! Yes!"
then suddenly cried Teut. "It must be so! Listen to me, Tibet! Do So
Countess of the proposal to my offer of taking. You know how and where
best to be established. Put yourself behind the children, if they beg
that their wish fulfilled, it can not resist! And when the Countess
on the tiresome point is coming - you know - my dreaded open hand, and
the like Thorheiten more - as you say - yes, so tell her what you want
, but in all cases that I verspräche her never to touch this issue,
much less their intentions to act against. "" To command, Mr. Baron, I
hope to honor your trust making. I will do my utmost thun .-- Only one!
If I get this job, I must admit that I've seen you, and that is the
suspicion of the woman Countess awaken. The seemingly unprepared
I asserts, the better it is! "" Well, did you fib already good exercise,
Tibet! "Teut smiled and looked at his face but by the impression of Tibet
caused to blur." I think you would say that your family lived
here in the area, and by chance had taken me. Where to stay because
actually yours? "Tibet called the place." Ah - in M.! Are you born
there? "" Yes, Mr. Baron. "" And your father still alive? "" No, Mr.
Baron. "" Your mother is a widow? "" Yes, Mr. Baron - "Teut Tibet broke a
smile and said , is reminiscent of a conversation that he was once in
Fort Claire Chen home with the same man, who now seized monosyllabic
response: "Just like back then - yes - no, Mr. Baron! - answer me,
Tibet. But I will not even penetrate your secrets. Only for your interest
in my person did ask me. "" I ask, do not be misinterpreted, Mr. Baron.
I am directed otherwise. What I know about the Meiningen, there is
very little gratifying nature.

I never talk about, have not, because my person is not indifferent
play a role. "" In That, "said Teut participating," yours is the bad?

Are you still around and sisters? "" I " - Tibet faltered here for a
while - "a poor sick woman, terminally ill and paralyzed the first time
since our marriage, I granted a brief happiness, she lives with my
mother and my sister, she maintains, Gracious Lord. Even my mother was
completely paralyzed, as my father, as a musician earned his bread, died.
Property was not present at his death. I was originally the high school
to join the Primavera visited and was then - as I used to tell me
already allowed - Kaufmann.

I had it but no luck, I do not want it to succeed, to come forward. The
urgent need its own and that of my family, totally dependent on me were
I certain that the position of a house in which Mr. Hofmeister counts
of Fort Claire, who I have been so many years have clothed. I had to earn
the same amount of life in what position, and here I found what I
was looking for. During this time, I have nourished Meinigen, yes myself
a little can save for my later days.

What I felt, Gracious Lord, you sent me yesterday as the prospect
opened, for life on your side to be allowed to stay, I can not say. And
you will after this presentation to understand what care is taken by me.
I'm now sure that the Meinigen - "In the rose's lean face at these
words, as if the sun suddenly breaks through dark clouds, and the emotion,
yet the man so much that he abwandte."

How? All the years, your wife, your mother and sister only lived by your
hard work? "Said Teut fully admiring astonishment." Brave man! Thank you
for your trust! I guess it is the higher, because even your closest friends
do not know these things. It remains true: The real gems lie hidden in
the deep scallops on the seabed! We have to take out laboriously. A
real gem is such a duty and the glory is not in the broad way! They practice
it for its own sake, in silence, without sound. This means a Christian
can be! Here my hand, you brave man! I ask now for your friendship! I offer
them to you no more! "Tibet was directed at these words in its full
size upwards; an unusual splendor came into his eyes, and flew over
his face the reflection of a storm of emotions." Oh, too much! Too
much, Gracious Lord, "cried he in that noise, only the breast of such
people to pass through the interview." With these words, I have not lived
in vain! With this day I will be someone else in this world and another
world for me! But with this word, Gracious Lord, you have also Ernst
Tibet to your shadows made for all days and hours of his life!

What I am and have for the future belongs to you! "* * * * * It was morning
time. Ange impatiently opened a letter which she had just received. That
was from Tibet, who announced that he is at the present day back be. As
this is Ange kundgab noon the children, they unanimously took the decision
to him from the railway station. Now they stood there and looked expectantly
on the platform beyond. When the train finally came closer, they are
pushed together, and were full of impatience, the long-awaited welcome.
"Tibet! Tibet! Here!

" she cried, and stormed to the arrival, which was moved to them and their
hinabbeugte cuddled receipt. All accessed at the same time after his
hand to a special preference to enjoy, until finally Jorinde and Ange
his rights and left conquered. first question of Tibet was the mom, and
this was answered satisfactorily.

Mama Ange would be good, they've also come to the station, but had been
held. Then put the small crowd, Tibet in the middle, set in motion .-- On
the same evening to sat mistress and servant in the living room opposite.
Tibet told how he's on the trip had been delivered, and offer friendly and
listened carefully.

"Even the Lord Major of Teut, I have seen and talked, "threw in Tibet
uninhibited way Tone, the first after he had reported. "He leaves the
wife Countess recommended pressing on." Ange looked baffled in the
highest grade upwards. "How have you seen Lord of Teut, Tibet? When?
Where? And quite by chance?" Tibet nodded and told a story that he
had on the way. "And it's better? If he's well again?" Ange drove slowly
continues. actuated Tibet and wanted to know, glad that things were so
cheap was added, continue. But either Ange wanted to continue the
conversation or not they wanted to gain time.

She broke and came up with all sorts of domestic matters.

Meanwhile Tibet mused, as the things he'd like to be able to set
up, and finally said, using a small pause, rather abruptly: "I have
a job to the wife the Countess of Mr.

Baron orientation. before I forget - "Ange saw Tibet firmly in the
eye, but they did not follow the talk.

Only a short: "Well?" slipped from their lips. "First, it is the Lord Baron
of the letter of the woman rather Countess very grateful. He would have
answered the same even if he does not wish the woman verbally Countess
-" Tibet stopped and he was afraid now safe interruption. But to his
surprise Ange said nothing, only their views remained as seriously,
yes, so peculiarly liable to him that he was involuntarily eyes
had reflected.

He raffte however, and went on: "The Lord Baron hopes in a few weeks
back so far made to be that he can leave Wiesbaden. He will then travel
Eder on this trip and the woman like the Countess in Eisenach welcome."
And what you said about Tibet? " asked Ange cold. "I - I - Ms.
Countess -" He said not enough. Both silent for a moment: just hardworking
Anges needle, and the departed, broke the silence. In the chamber stood a
round table by a lamp was lit. Around it were the furniture, which once
in Carlos' room had found the place. Same images adorn the walls, even
the small Nippessachen of those days were on the desk. Suddenly Ange
presented the work of the hand, and said the man, who gegenübersaß,
researching into the eye-looking: "Tibet!" "Madam Countess?" "What
should I think of you?

You have Mr Baron von Teut seen and a such an order? I am mistaken
in you. I must commend it to you. So was it but as I suspected. behind
my back! So that's it, as I feared, when you need me from a trip saying,
"" Mrs. Countess -- I ask - I do not understand - "" You understand
quite well, Tibet!

more. They were uneasy, as you in our conversation on this subject came,
and since I was not guileless, I watched you. "Ange based melancholy
his head and seemed for a moment very busy with other thoughts. She
heard nothing from Tibet assertions, none of his usual speech, by
forwarding it to the censure sought. Only when it becomes a means other
hand, his plans to make it, and suddenly said: "Very, very changed but has
the Lord Baron. You know, Madam Countess, the sad yet not at all. I
still did not result this let you know.

The Lord Baron has the left leg in the war is lost! " participation
outweighed all other concerns and thoughts. "How? what?" called Ange
excited, let the work fall, rose from her chair and looked at Tibet,
with all signs of consternation. "amputated? The leg is lost?" Tibet
breathed relief. "My poor, poor friend!" whispered to himself, Ange.
"Is it very serious, very depressed, therefore, Tibet? You say that he
did that which so suffering? Oh, and I do not even know! That he failed
me. I want to rush him, console him, care for him -" But it broke just
as fast, and sat down again quietly and wordlessly took the fall
just left work.

"Tell on, Tibet. Tell me what Mr. von Teut you said," then lifted it to
left. "Of course it requires me to learn more." "At the command, Mrs
Countess. I found the Lord Baron very laconic and apparently deeply
detuned. He expressed the intention to completely withdraw from
everything, henceforth to live in Eder and adjust each movement.

What mood dominated the Lord Baron" - now Tibet is considered the
time to execute his plans, and that he is with trembling heart -
"like that woman Countess recognize that, as a chance in a conversation
between the Lord and Baron where friends present at the speech of
the latter impending marriage came and the same jokes on Mr.

Baron also noted that said: 'Dear friend, that was long ago and is
now more so for old times buried! Nothing blooms me on earth, even my
best friends I have - without my fault, I must say - and lost!

"Tibet remained silent and waited.

White Roses broke out on Anges cheeks.

A colored pallor this before Tibet was shocked. Has he gone too far, too
fast, he had to abruptly traded. Certainly, it seemed, because Ange said
bitterly: "Galt me the last comment, Tibet?

Only, I wish to know more." The man remained silent. "Well?" repeated it
hard. "I believe - I know not, Madam Countess." "And what do you say
to all that Tibet?"

"Oh, no," she answered, and she attested her conviction by a burst of
sobbing that lasted well on the way to the first stop of the train.


LXIX.

It would have been always twice as easy to go direct from Berlin to the
Hague through Hanover; but the Marches decided to go by Frankfort and the
Rhine, because they wished to revisit the famous river, which they
remembered from their youth, and because they wished to stop at
Dusseldorf, where Heinrich Heine was born. Without this Mrs. March, who
kept her husband up to his early passion for the poet with a feeling that
she was defending him from age in it, said that their silver wedding
journey would not be complete; and he began himself to think that it
would be interesting.

They took a sleeping-car for Frankfort and they woke early as people do
in sleeping-cars everywhere. March dressed and went out for a cup of the
same coffee of which sleeping-car buffets have the awful secret in Europe
as well as America, and for a glimpse of the twilight landscape. One gray
little town, towered and steepled and red-roofed within its mediaeval
walls, looked as if it would have been warmer in something more. There
was a heavy dew, if not a light frost, over all, and in places a pale fog
began to lift from the low hills. Then the sun rose without dispersing
the cold, which was afterwards so severe in their room at the Russischer
Hof in Frankfort that in spite of the steam-radiators they sat shivering
in all their wraps till breakfast-time.

There was no steam on in the radiators, of course; when they implored the
portier for at least a lamp to warm their hands by he turned on all the
electric lights without raising the temperature in the slightest degree.
Amidst these modern comforts they were so miserable that they vowed each
other to shun, as long as they were in Germany, or at least while the
summer lasted, all hotels which were steam-heated and electric-lighted.
They heated themselves somewhat with their wrath, and over their
breakfast they relented so far as to suffer themselves a certain interest
in the troops of all arms beginning to pass the hotel. They were
fragments of the great parade, which had ended the day before, and they
were now drifting back to their several quarters of the empire. The men
eagerly read the newspapers, brought a message from the other, and in
military circles was febrile tension on the likely Marschordres. "Is
it true, is it possible?" Ange cried and ran contrary to Teut, who immediately
went to his friends. "Have you ever received Outdent command? When? Where
are you? Oh, come! Carlos is in great impatience to see you and talk."
And she drew him with it in her husband's chamber. Claire Fort was
hardly recognizable.

The three years since he moved to C. was moved, it had completely
changed. His gaze was terribly rigid, a black beard framed his face, and
skinny fingers twitched in nervous excitement. He moved uncertain,
stayed mostly in the furniture and then progressively with those
free-willed movements accompanied involving the spinal cord
suffering recognizes. Due to excessive use of narcotic means his
condition had not improved, and often it was like when he woke the sleeping
man, a sick mind. Today, he was clear, he stood out in his
recently completed his invalid chair up and set up a questioning glance
at the occurrence. "Just something new, Teut? When it's continued?
Oh, and I lie here, a powerless patient, and must watch." Ange comforted
compassionate, pointing to improvement, admittedly without believing it
himself. Teut nodded and gave serious answers to these and subsequent
issues. "I think we are leaving tomorrow, C.," he said. "The Colonel is
only told that we are ready to march up to that will hold. A
certain Ordre has not yet arrived." "Even the day after tomorrow," said
Ange frightened, let the arms fall, yet just on the high chair
backrest of the patient had rested , and laid a hand on your heart. Even
Claire Fort repeated the same words, but as an absent, with his mind is
far away. "Please, Ange," he finally overcome with visible to "leave us
now.

I have something to discuss with Teut." Ange looked serious face of the
two men and turned to walk obediently. Teuts miens remained motionless:
they vainly sought his views. After they had left the chamber, Claire Fort
fell back and covered the face with his hands. "They are moving, what is
you, Claire Fort?" Teut began, a chair and herbeirückend touching
shoulder of a friend. "You want me to say something? I hear Claire
continued." He stopped and expected that that will take the floor. As
Claire Fort remained silent, he continued: "Talk! What it may be, it
falls into the deepest wells! Parts you are with the friends who understand
everything, and everything -" "Excuse it?" said the sick, was suddenly
and looked up with a Teut beseechingly attention. "Yes," said Teut,
"everything can be forgiven." Finally the farewell, perhaps never
disbanded at Fort Claire tongue. How long had Teut awaited a confidence
that under the given conditions was so natural. Fort Claire had always
been silent. Often he seemed to want to start taking in order to open
the interior to the company, which made him depressed, but
always had his mouth closed. "Well, it was!" Fort Claire began. "It pushes
me to you today to say what tortures me, Teut. Who knows, if you find me
still alive when you return. Let's hope it does not mean that I now
davongehe, but we assume that we are the last face time. forgiveness. me
too - "Claire paused, and continued laboriously fetched breath -" If
I woe you so often have done, through sensitivities, by jealous emotions,
through a false pride hurt. Reckon if you are able is a little bit with
my condition, I even in its importance and its scope did not know. I am a
free-willed, unsteady man. Oh, my friend - "Claire Fort broke to sweat
droplets appeared on his forehead, and his hands wandered restlessly around
- "I have sinned against unsühnbar passed and my wife - my children -"
He stopped, and his face painted a terrible fear. He wanted to continue
talking, but could not. Teut spoke softly to him: "Take it easy, Claire
continued. And once again: Are you no blame, what it is, trust yourself
to me." "Well -" groans of those and grabbed desperately after the friend's
hand. "Well - you can hear. I - I - no, I can you the crime - do not
uncover my shame! And yet, I would not hide a man who like nobody
deserves my trust, it may require, which I have long had open follow me,
and I said, but not because of shame overwhelmed me. "Teut heard angst
filled with tension. What would he listen? Shame, crime? In vain he
thought back and forth.

"Be a man, Claire continued. Raffe you. We are here for two. There is
no need for insurance that never a syllable about my lips will come."
"Well, Teut, I have - all our assets, the assets of my wife, my own,
that of my children - at the stock exchange playful, "shaking it out of
the patient's lips. "We have been living the last years of Tibet through
without my knowledge rescued capital - and are available in a few weeks
before - before Nothing - I - I -" The man fell together like a log in
the furnace to ash verglommen suddenly to replace. Teut was leichenblaß
it clawed to the interior of pain and indignation at the same time.
What he heard was more than appalling. This was a man thun such a system,
such children? He bit on the lips and jumped up. But only a moment then
cleared in the breast of this rare human spark of noble spirit, blazing
and shot up the love for her, he swore, to be a friend for life. "Claire
continued," he said, "we discussed only once money matters, and it should
now be the last time. You fear nothing. Anders is your life, while design,
but you will not darbe. Axel von Teut says it is serious about friendship
and Gelöbnissen. This insurance was enough to you. What happened
what lies behind us, will never be touched again between us. Only one
request, I speak out: Save me that Ange will never know how your assets
zerronnen, still less that it is entirely so. failing to name the
role, which now assumes the friend. I applied today as
manager of your income and as the guardian of your children. Do you agree?
"Claire pointed to progress upwards. Schlotterten His knee, his eyes shone
supernatural, but by the arms ausstreckte to adapt to the friend's chest
to throw, he slipped and fell heavily due to the carpet. Teut
stooped down and listened to his heart. It proposed. Quickly he hurried
to the bell.

Immediately thereafter came Ange from Tibet followed into the room. "Calm
down, lady," said Teut soothing. "It's not bad. Carlos Bring us into bed.
Only a faint. He felt so weak. It will pass." Ange researched fearful
faces in the grave of the speakers, Tibet during his master up and
carefully examined beds. Nothing! Only once he saw it, and his eyes flashed
in the old, tenderness mingled with sadness. And then came the
parting. It was a late afternoon. Ange was the notion of the garden
down to the cooled air to enjoy and the children to see. Jorinde
and Ben swung under the dark shadow already throwing book in the
hammock, and Fred and Erna got watering cans came to the flower beds of
water to enter. From the bushes, from the ground quoll a gentle fragrance,
because the dew appealed the delicate nerves of the trees and grasses.
Ange Before the last stair, she opened the door and joined her, Teut.
She looked at his eyes that he had come to say farewell. "I go up to
Carlos," said Teut, "if you want in the garden, I will then decide later.
Yet this evening, we leave the city." Ange leaned against the railing, and
laid a hand on her breast. "Well, really?" She looked at him
with her quiet eyes, and he looked at her eyes with an expression
in which only too clearly reflected what moved him.

"Will you remember my sometimes, Ange?" She did not answer, she bowed
silently, the only Haupt. How beautiful it was just today! A closely
followed by black dress spanned her body, and two white roses adorn her
breast. To the head, she had a light cloth beaten, where the soft gold
of her hair hervorschaute. And in the blue white of their eyes swam
those gentle and yet so dark flashing stars, which no man forgot where
he had once seen. While they stood before him and the main light was
based on the hand, were the tips of the rich robe back and an arm of
impeccable Ebenmaß became visible. The figure seemed in this free moments
in the air to float in the inimitable grace of its appearance from
the Earth to be replaced. "Matters of love!" whispered Teut, enraptured
by her sight, and stepped a few steps forward. but glided slowly
down the stairs and asked him by a movement to follow her. umschritten
you, unseen by the children, the house and bent in a quiet Laubgang On.
The sun lost wove with weak lights in the distance, where it was almost
dark. Laconic, they went side by side, both the language
faltered. When they pave the way for the second measure, proposed
to the reputation of one of the children in her ear. "Mama Ange! Mama
Ange! Where are you?" Now, he hastily took her hand, put his arm around
her body, and they tolerated it, he felt that one seconds her head
rested on his chest.

"Thanks, thanks for everything, Teut!

Auf Wiedersehen!" she sobbed and tore away from him go. "Oh, Ange,
Ange, my dear friend! Forget me not!" whispered the man and held out of
the darkness like a light phenomenon emerging shape back. "Never, never,
Teut!" pressed under Thränen out. "But now - the children go!" They came
from the surrounding trees out. In Grase zirpte is quiet, a bird fluttered
drowsy in the branches. Drüben seemed quite absorbed the sun, the day
had gone to sleep, her hands and broke away. * * * * * "Dear Teut!
Gottlob, that your letter arrived. They took me from an unspeakable
fear exempt. Now I know that you alive and healthy, now it happens all
the rest in the background. I also write to you on the day to determine
how much my thoughts are with you. Let me tell initially how it goes
with us. Carlos' is the same helpless condition, but he is sometimes
cheerful and communicative. I was very touched when he condemned the
children to come to him, she caressed and employed with them.

It's been a year and a day is no longer the case. They believe but not,
as like the small crowd and what progress they make. Ben and Fred are now
in high school and very important to strut with their schoolbags
hand. With Miss Elise, the governess, is continuing well. She is a
gracious, kind Dame, and the girls show her every day, how nice they
have the same. You'll be happy, my dear, excellent friend, that Carlos
is now no longer so sparingly is exaggerated. Since he has your progress
on the budget increased, and Tibet has more available than in the past
half years. I had terrible, embarrassing obligations to craftsmen and in
my neighborhood - not just scold you, I understood it so far so
bad, but certainly learn it again very good - which is now all paid for.
What a delicious feeling to have no debt! The villa we meanwhile, because
the rent is reduced. Carlos presented the owner the option of termination
or drain pursuit to be. You see, it is with us. Had my not so expensive
Carlos ill, Carlitos still lived and would not continue, my dear, faithful
Teut, I would say that we are completely happy, I got recently, upon
the recommendation of Miss Elise, the letters of Madame de Sévigné to her
daughter in the hand. What a pleasure! Every parent should read
what these weltkluge and sensitive woman has written, and search,
it is their own making.

Want one.

Jorinde really allerliebst plays piano, and recently she had with Fred
Four small pieces at Carlos' Birthday rehearsed, which had great
success.

Elise was very proud, and I did it - as you will see, Bärbeißiger, now
highly unreasonable finding - one of my silk dresses gift. but I come no
longer in the society have also known to be honest, little desire
to.

Neulich woman has Ink made me a visit. I met Miss Eva, the bride, and took
her with me. I think it's very good that they can personally grateful.
I know you do not like the lady, but confess that I find very amiable,
and that I have the impression that they mean it well with me. No, no!
I hear you speak. Now, if you come, we can transport to fall back asleep.
Fred can you say you want him to bring a French shako. If you have not
forgotten? Ange embraces you tenderly. Eben herbeigelaufen and she
wants candy. but you will receive none. Uncle Axel French would like
to send candy! she says. Today, I want my Carlitos' grave visit Teut, I
also put your name down on a flower. And now you live well, only you, Best,
and write again soon and Good your you warm greeting and grateful
by Claire fort Ange. Ah, but when the terrible war would be ended! "As
these lines Teut had received, he wrote a letter Feldpost, which at its
Banquiers was in Berlin. This letter, whose contents Ange later
received knowledge, may find place here. "Dear Lord, just before my
departure from C. I asked you a month the sum of one thousand marks
to the address of the bank Danz & Co. paid in C. and the same say
that this amount against the handwritten receipt of Count Carlos by
Claire Fort and the countersignature of the Empfangnehmenden Ernst
Tibet was auszufolgen.

I ask, in the first of next month, this amount of five hundred marks to
increase, so now fifteen hundred marks to repay a debt to the Lord
Claire Fort Counts to pay. Because of me to send monthly payments, it
remains at the previous provisions. I ask you at the same time, look
around, whether the two major items of each three hundred thousand
marks in the future, not to five per cent in secondary mortgage would
accommodate. I think it giebt like safe investments, and I could increase
my earnings. As I mentioned in the sequence of interest of capital no
longer can lay back, I am looking for something up. The local relief
committee for the wounded want to go to five thousand Ave kindly
Mark transferred. Let me tell you my thanks in advance and ask for your
early messages. Baron von Teut -Eder, captain and Eskadronchef. "* * * *
* The two letters, according to its contents and indicative of Ange Teut,
were written in September, but two months later met in Fort Claire's
home so serious event that everything for the family in question appeared.
When Ange one morning in the room her husband came to her in
accordance with customary, after his being to find out it was contrary
to an intolerable heat, and they found him not how else already seated
at his desk. When Claire Fort severe pain in the night afraid that he
used more often of late in the evening heat to Tibet, because only too
often his condition caused him insomnia. When Ange peered into the
chamber, she found to her horror, the overturned table, Glaser,
candlesticks and Bottles were covered herabgestürzt and flooring and
carpet. Claire Fort but was itself - the main down and with their feet
touching the pillow - along with the back bedroom ceiling beaten like
a lifeless hingestreckt. Ange flew into the bed and listened to her husband's
breathing. His heart was so quiet that it could barely be heard, and
his appearance was so changed that - now todesgeängstigt - pulled
the cord. "What happened? What happened, Tibet? "She cried, when it came
closer." Were you still in the night with the Count? See how it looks
terrible! His heartbeat is silent! I am frightened nameless! "Tibet
threw a concerned glance around and approached his master." I would
like to believe that Mr. Graf probably a very powerful sleeping powder to
be taken, "he said reassuringly." While violent dreams he likes to
beaten randomly and have touched the table. The former is also happened
before. "" Oh, the poor, "said Ange compassionate." Certainly, he had
his terrible back pain. And do you think that he is asleep, that no
danger exists, Tibet? "" No, Madam Countess, must calm down. "After this
assurance were both living in the chamber."

Do not believe, "Ange said after a pause and dampened their voice,
"that this very strong sleeping pills harmful after effects?" "Yes,
Madam Countess," said Tibet, "but are still much worse -" He broke in
with a facial expression, as if the last word he had just entschlüpft.
As Ange saw that it should be kept slightly increased their fear.

     "Not yet, not yet! You want to hide something to me.

I want it and must know. Oh Tibet! Was it ever a good thing that you
never talkative was against me? Who knows, if not many here in the home
states otherwise! "She pointed to the slender hand on the thränenden
eyes." Speak, I implore you! "She continued, as he still remained silent."
What is worse? and what secrets you have with my husband for many
years?

"" Oh, Madam Countess - "stuttered Tibet and saw Ange pleading to." There
is nothing, certainly not! "" Is it because of curiosity, which led me to
invite you to ask? "Ange said, with gentle seriousness and looked sad to
Tibet." Is it not a concern for my beloved man! Ah, ah! thränenvolle
how many hours I have already had him! "Tibet had completely lost the
text. He stood there as someone who is guilty of a serious
forgiveness and feel shame and despair is not a word found. raffte finally
up and he said" Forgive me, Madam Countess. In everything that I am, I
followed the command of the Lord Count. If I am wrong that - that I certainly
wrong against you - o, so you forgive me "" Well well! Let us leave the
past! But what now? "Ange urged." You finally speaking. "Tibet saw with
a shy glance to the door and whispered softly:" Just over a year
since the Lord is exceedingly strong Graf morphine doses to stay
with him.

Nobody knows. He ordered me unconditional secrecy. They also forbade
it to talk about. "
"Now I see," said Mrs. March, on their way down to the boat, "how
fortunate it was that we baked his clock. You may laugh, but I believe we
were the instruments of justice."

"Do you suppose that clock was never baked before?" asked her husband.
"The landlord has his own arrangement with justice. When he overcharges
his parting guests he says to his conscience, Well, they baked my clock."


LXXI.

The morning was raw, but it was something not to have it rainy; and the
clouds that hung upon the hills and hid their tops were at least as fine
as the long board signs advertising chocolate on the river banks. The
smoke rising from the chimneys of the manufactories of Mayence was not so
bad, either, when one got them in the distance a little; and March liked
the way the river swam to the stems of the trees on the low grassy
shores. It was like the Mississippi between St. Louis and Cairo in that,
and it was yellow and thick, like the Mississippi, though he thought he
remembered it blue and clear. A friendly German, of those who began to
come aboard more and more at all the landings after leaving Mayence,
assured him that he was right, and that the Rhine was unusually turbid
from the unusual rains. March had his own belief that whatever the color
of the Rhine might be the rains were not unusual, but he could not
gainsay the friendly German.

Most of the passengers at starting were English and American; but they
showed no prescience of the international affinition which has since
realized itself, in their behavior toward one another. They held silently
apart, and mingled only in the effect of one young man who kept the
Marches in perpetual question whether he was a Bostonian or an
Englishman. His look was Bostonian, but his accent was English; and was
he a Bostonian who had been in England long enough to get the accent, or
was he an Englishman who had been in Boston long enough to get the look?
He wore a belated straw hat, and a thin sack-coat; and in the rush of the
boat through the raw air they fancied him very cold, and longed to offer
him one of their superabundant wraps. At times March actually lifted a
shawl from his knees, feeling sure that the stranger was English and that
he might make so bold with him; then at some glacial glint in the young
man's eye, or at some petrific expression of his delicate face, he felt
that he was a Bostonian, and lost courage and let the shawl sink again.
March tried to forget him in the wonder of seeing the Germans begin to
eat and drink, as soon as they came on boards either from the baskets
they had brought with them, or from the boat's provision. But he
prevailed, with his smile that was like a sneer, through all the events
of the voyage; and took March's mind off the scenery with a sudden wrench
when he came unexpectedly into view after a momentary disappearance. At
the table d'hote, which was served when the landscape began to be less
interesting, the guests were expected to hand their plates across the
table to the stewards but to keep their knives and forks throughout the
different courses, and at each of these partial changes March felt the
young man's chilly eyes upon him, inculpating him for the
semi-civilization of the management. At such times he knew that he was a
Bostonian.

The weather cleared, as they descended the river, and under a sky at last
cloudless, the Marches had moments of swift reversion to their former
Rhine journey, when they were young and the purple light of love mantled
the vineyarded hills along the shore, and flushed the castled steeps. The
scene had lost nothing of the beauty they dimly remembered; there were
certain features of it which seemed even fairer and grander than they
remembered. The town of Bingen, where everybody who knows the poem was
more or less born, was beautiful in spite of its factory chimneys, though
there were no compensating castles near it; and the castles seemed as
good as those of the theatre. Here and there some of them had been
restored and were occupied, probably by robber barons who had gone into
trade. Others were still ruinous, and there was now and then such a mere
gray snag that March, at sight of it, involuntarily put his tongue to the
broken tooth which he was keeping for the skill of the first American
dentist.

For natural sublimity the Rhine scenery, as they recognized once more,
does not compare with the Hudson scenery; and they recalled one point on
the American river where the Central Road tunnels a jutting cliff, which
might very well pass for the rock of the Loreley, where she dreams

     'Solo sitting by the shores of old romance'

and the trains run in and out under her knees unheeded. "Still, still you
know," March argued, "this is the Loreley on the Rhine, and not the
Loreley on the Hudson; and I suppose that makes all the difference.
Besides, the Rhine doesn't set up to be sublime; it only means to be
storied and dreamy and romantic and it does it. And then we have really
got no Mouse Tower; we might build one, to be sure."

"Well, we have got no denkmal, either," said his wife, meaning the
national monument to the German reconquest of the Rhine, which they had
just passed, "and that is something in our favor."

"It was too far off for us to see how ugly it was," he returned.

"The denkmal at Coblenz was so near that the bronze Emperor almost rode
aboard the boat."

He could not answer such a piece of logic as that. He yielded, and began
to praise the orcharded levels which now replaced the vine-purpled slopes
of the upper river. He said they put him in mind of orchards that he had
known in his boyhood; and they, agreed that the supreme charm of travel,
after all, was not in seeing something new and strange, but in finding
something familiar and dear in the heart of the strangeness.

At Cologne they found this in the tumult of getting ashore with their
baggage and driving from the steamboat landing to the railroad station,
where they were to get their train for Dusseldorf an hour later. The
station swarmed with travellers eating and drinking and smoking; but they
escaped from it for a precious half of their golden hour, and gave the
time to the great cathedral, which was built, a thousand years ago, just
round the corner from the station, and is therefore very handy to it.
Since they saw the cathedral last it had been finished, and now under a
cloudless evening sky, it soared and swept upward like a pale flame.
Within it was a bit over-clean, a bit bare, but without it was one of the
great memories of the race, the record of a faith which wrought miracles
of beauty, at least, if not piety.

The train gave the Marches another, and last, view of it as they slowly
drew out of the city, and began to run through a level country walled
with far-off hills; past fields of buckwheat showing their stems like
coral under their black tops; past peasant houses changing their wonted
shape to taller and narrower forms; past sluggish streams from which the
mist rose and hung over the meadows, under a red sunset, glassy clear
till the manifold factory chimneys of Dusseldorf stained it with their
dun smoke.

This industrial greeting seemed odd from the town where Heinrich Heine
was born; but when they had eaten their supper in the capital little
hotel they found there, and went out for a stroll, they found nothing to
remind them of the factories, and much to make them think of the poet.
The moon, beautiful and perfect as a stage moon, came up over the
shoulder of a church as they passed down a long street which they had all
to themselves. Everybody seemed to have gone to bed, but at a certain
corner a girl opened a window above them, and looked out at the moon.

When they returned to their hotel they found a highwalled garden facing
it, full of black depths of foliage. In the night March woke and saw the
moon standing over the garden, and silvering its leafy tops. This was
really as it should be in the town where the idolized poet of his youth
was born; the poet whom of all others he had adored, and who had once
seemed like a living friend; who had been witness of his first love, and
had helped him to speak it. His wife used to laugh at him for his
Heine-worship in those days; but she had since come to share it, and she,
even more than he, had insisted upon this pilgrimage. He thought long
thoughts of the past, as he looked into the garden across the way, with
an ache for his perished self and the dead companionship of his youth,
all ghosts together in the silvered shadow. The trees shuddered in the
night breeze, and its chill penetrated to him where he stood.

His wife called to him from her room, "What are you doing?"

"Oh, sentimentalizing," he answered boldly.

"Well, you will be sick," she said, and he crept back into bed again.

They had sat up late, talking in a glad excitement. But he woke early, as
an elderly man is apt to do after broken slumbers, and left his wife
still sleeping. He was not so eager for the poetic interests of the town
as he had been the night before; he even deferred his curiosity for
Heine's birth-house to the instructive conference which he had with his
waiter at breakfast. After all, was not it more important to know
something of the actual life of a simple common class of men than to
indulge a faded fancy for the memory of a genius, which no amount of
associations could feed again to its former bloom? The waiter said he was
a Nuremberger, and had learned English in London where he had served a
year for nothing. Afterwards, when he could speak three languages he got
a pound a week, which seemed low for so many, though not so low as the
one mark a day which he now received in Dusseldorf; in Berlin he paid the
hotel two marks a day. March confided to him his secret trouble as to
tips, and they tried vainly to enlighten each other as to what a just tip
was.

He went to his banker's, and when he came back he found his wife with her
breakfast eaten, and so eager for the exploration of Heine's birthplace
that she heard with indifference of his failure to get any letters. It
was too soon to expect them, she said, and then she showed him her plan,
which she had been working out ever since she woke. It contained every
place which Heine had mentioned, and she was determined not one should
escape them. She examined him sharply upon his condition, accusing him of
having taken cold when he got up in the night, and acquitting him with
difficulty. She herself was perfectly well, but a little fagged, and they
must have a carriage.

They set out in a lordly two-spanner, which took up half the little
Bolkerstrasse where Heine was born, when they stopped across the way from
his birthhouse, so that she might first take it all in from the outside
before they entered it. It is a simple street, and not the cleanest of
the streets in a town where most of them are rather dirty. Below the
houses are shops, and the first story of Heine's house is a butcher shop,
with sides of pork and mutton hanging in the windows; above, where the
Heine family must once have lived, a gold-beater and a frame-maker
displayed their signs.

But did the Heine family really once live there? The house looked so
fresh and new that in spite of the tablet in its front affirming it the
poet's birthplace, they doubted; and they were not reassured by the
people who half halted as they passed, and stared at the strangers, so
anomalously interested in the place. They dismounted, and crossed to the
butcher shop where the provision man corroborated the tablet, but could
not understand their wish to go up stairs. He did not try to prevent
them, however, and they climbed to the first floor above, where a placard
on the door declared it private and implored them not to knock. Was this
the outcome of the inmate's despair from the intrusion of other pilgrims
who had wised to see the Heine dwelling-rooms? They durst not knock and
ask so much, and they sadly descended to the ground-floor, where they
found a butcher boy of much greater apparent intelligence than the
butcher himself, who told them that the building in front was as new as
it looked, and the house where Heine was really born was the old house in
the rear. Erna Should not even go to bed, Mom? "It was so cold! And Ange
could not heat. During the last days, she had recorded a total apathy,
things had to change by something - like that she knew not they also
that nothing of this. But it could change nothing, but they acted.
"I want you, as long as there is still so cold, the bed inside up on
the sofa," decided Ange. "Yes, yes, my dear child, it is too chilly up,
it is not good for your chest. We have to see how we do's. "At that
moment, a dispute arose between the siblings. Fred tease the two girls
wept Ange and Erna shouted, as he hands raised against it. Previously,
Ben silently sat beside his mother. He listened to everything and it
dug into him. He jumped up and went against his brother. He
grabbed him in the chest and shook him like a cat who takes possession
of a mouse has. Under the mental excitement under which his compassion for
mother, the suffering of his sick sister went through his zehrend
affairs. Now it had captured the outrage that the peace disturbers
frivolous even now took no account.

"Ben! Ben, "cried Ange full of horrors and mingled among the fighting boys.
Fred had his brother in the hair taken and looked at him panting breath
herabzuziehen." Oh, You! You! Can you not take a moment? I wanted you
for a long time give a lesson! No, let me, let me, mama! "Defied Ben
against Anges command and a reminder on." He deserves it! He is not
worth that you love him so happy! "And now beaten both on the
ground, and beat his brother Ben in reflection anger loose on the
head and shoulders. And the little crying Ange geängstigt, the sick
and coughed Erna was fully compassion as clueless and folded hands. So
raged illness, worry and strife in the home. "Even still," sighed Given
how desperate and settled in her chair. "Oh, Ben, Fred! That ye even
to me such grief makes! "She cried and sobbed. It giebt moments when
everything dead and dismal to the people, in which his soul is crying,
and it is sad to die. The boys had collected and arranged their clothes.
My breathing was hurried through the chamber, and their limbs quivered
under the excitation. When Ben but his mother's voice heard, just as the
indictment met his ear, pulled suddenly sudden pallor on his
face, he rushed out, ran in the dark on his room, threw himself into bed
and buried the weeping face in the pillow.

When at last sleep over mannen wanted him when, after burrowing and gnawing
thoughts weaken the allegations occurred, flashed in the cold of
the winter white of the silver-framed chamber suddenly a light on ,
and almost like a supernatural, but comforting rich appearance to
his mother with deep dark eyes and pale, delicate face. An rushed hand
lay down on his head, cheeks and soft nestles tenderly to his. "Trotzkopf
You!" she said and looked him in the eye. "Now sleeping ', and you -
Ben, me thu's sake - contract' you tomorrow with your brother and gieb him
the first word!" He hesitated, but he nodded, but because they it wanted
to. "I know, I know, you frighten me to you, you brought to my
hand against him," whispered Ange moves. "But it was not right, Ben!

You Thust's not play, Ben, my Ben? "And because boys' queues his arms around
her neck. Crying and sobbing, he hung on her neck and regretted that he
had lacked for love. * * * * * Ange decided after serious struggles , one
of the following days but now with their neighbors and talk to him for
some money to address. They knew no more Council, was at the end with
the small sum which it had remained, and stood before an emergency,
before which all the concerns silent had. She wrote in plaster for
this purpose a short letter in which they ask, was it because of an
urgent matter with his usual morning walk by a visit to want to
enjoy. "Well, dear Madam Countess, I am there," he said , pushed the snow
from his feet and stepped into the living room. Ange stood still in a
white apron, and her hand held a wipe and a duster, which she and
Angle had cleaned corners. Ben, which is now also occurring because of
how cold Jorinde had to guard the room, was located in the adjoining
chamber. He joined the show for a moment neighbor shows itself bowed
politely and then went quietly to the door. Now, it was Given with plaster
alone.

"Please, take a seat, dear neighbor," she said a little embarrassed, touched
the apron, which stressed on the forehead and got caught a chair
came to him to set. "You do not want to on the sofa -" "No, please,
please, I am sitting here very well. Must be well again," he replied
briefly, during the speech laid hands on the knob of his walking stick
and set up his or the umwehtes cold from the high fur out looking cunning
face on matters. "They told me that you wanted me to speak, Madam Countess."
"Yes, Mr. Putz, and I have to apologize first of all to ask you that
I've tried, instead to come to you. "" That has nothing to himself, "he
replied briefly, and went well with a hint of impatience continued:"
So, Madam Countess, please - "" I recently spoke with you about a money
thing Mr. Putz. They had the kindness to send me your advice to give,
and I found upon further reflection, that you were right, "began Ange
considerate. "Today, it is similar, but to -" Ange was right in saying
inne, stood up, went to her desk and took a Geldbriefkouvert out.

"You see, Mr. Putz, the money is the last consignment, which I received at
the beginning of October. There is interest, I get a quarterly basis. I
come up to New Year's not enough - I had a lot of unexpected expenses,
especially in the last few days. As wanted I kindly ask you now, Mr. Putz,
that you have the great kindness to me until January with a total
auszuhelfen. "Ange was timid, and he looked at the man that looks
like a fountain sculpture sat in front of her face and not made. He
squinted Kouvert on the supply on the table had looked only too well,
but that, as if he hinüberblinzele indifferent, cold, and then said: "Yes,
yes, It's probably me thinking - would also probably go to Mrs. Countess
. but I want the same note that I do New Year's also very, very close to
me.

I'm getting in early January - just like you - my money, and now, towards
the end of the month and around the festival around, it's almost
impossible! What you need it? "Ange identified a considerably lower sum
than they before them in an encouraging tone so few spoken words
had to ask. finery seemed on a fixed principle to act, because he said
reflect without incident:" I am sorry, you just half forward to, Mrs.
Countess. That makes me even inconvenient. As I said - "" Ah! " Ange
made only too disappointed. What he gave her was the next to cover
expenditures foremost hardly sufficient for the next eight days
to go until Christmas, there were still almost three weeks. "And
when you use the money? Today?" Putz took the floor and stood up, without
evident Anges unrest must be observed. And as always, after the drowning
of straw work, so Ange also attacked after the low, which it offered,
gratefully accepted, it promised the prompt return in January and signed
debt certificate, once the plaster office. Also, the amount she received
immediately from a wallet, the plaster in the side pocket of his skirt
in the lead. He seemed to matter to have prepared. Why did they want him
to speak? But certainly about money! Of course! What he, without
knowing her wishes, wanted, had already previously been considered by
him.

   While Ange and plaster, a few words exchanged, appeared at the
   door connecting the slender figure of Ben, the old one had.

An expression angry arousal malte In his trains, but also pain, shame
and compassion reflected in the face of the proud head raised. Well
Ange turned back, and the boy disappeared quickly, before it was
aware of his.

After eight days had hardly yet Ange furnace in the house, but otherwise
things were well, almost worse than previously. From Drange driven, shrugging
miens prevent, they made the neighborhood more installments, as they had
originally planned, and learned what each day may be observed that 'money
fahnenflüchtigste journeyman is one of the warlord served. But then
came the Christmas ever closer to the even each day laborers to his
children a joy to prepare examined. Ange had nothing for the kids before,
but they worked diligently and hiding of gifts for them and thus they
always reminded anew that it surprises even its anticipated. Even Fred
was busy with rubber and Radiermesser employed in a drawing, but with
clever these, as with Bleifeder and chalk. He was once a less volatile
companion. * * * * * It was a few days before the holy festivals and around
the evening time. A heavy snowfall in the area had rigid, pale robes filled.
From. Moonlight wrapped around, the Wartburg stood like a castle
inhabited by ghosts in the woods weißbedeckten out. Surrounded in the
villas but sparkled behind the small windows restless lights, the strange,
almost eerie abstachen against the silent, stripped of all the vibrant
colors in nature. It liked against ten clock at night, when a big strong
man who is just on the open road him from his place and seem to
have the opportunity indicative companions had separated, with a
slow heavy movements hinaufstieg the amount on which the cottage
stood, which is inhabited Ange.

The closer to his goals came, the more cautious were his steps. Several
times he held spähend, and he looked around him. But nowhere was a
living thing: the area was as extinct. At last he reached the house,
which was still light, silently inserts a small gate and turned cautious
movements with time in the garden. Before this after looking out window
was not a curtain herabgelassen it allowed unimpeded insight. The man -
it was Teut - dampened his rapid breathing, stopped and looked long and
unrelated to the inside of the chamber. Often he is in deep movement of
the chest and once joined silberfunkelnde drops of emotion in his eyes
about what he saw. Ange sat, the face turned to him at the table which
stood in the middle of the living room, and looked at testing a
garment that before her lay on the table.

Teut recognized it as a military leg dress, which includes Fort
Claire have liked.

The pale woman examined and measured by using the shorter garment is one
of the boys on the other hand held.

Once, after some back and forth to a decision reached was to split
the seams apart, spread to every part of it, put the boy's leg to
dress, cut with careful hand after the first deal and sewed the
individual parts together.

Without even a single time aufzuschauen, she sat on the work gebückt,
and only once they had the needle to rest, leaned back, lifted up
the new outfit and plucking at the fabric.

Now could Teut fully into her face to look, and fiebernd flew through his
chest, as her dear, pale and gentle face he ascended. Once it's as if he
considers that they had become, because she suddenly turned with
altered, frightened, almost spellbound glance her eye against the
window behind he listened.

He stepped back involuntarily, and peered from the darkness into
the lower chamber.

Had they seen him? - No!

Perhaps that's one of those strange idea showers, which we can
grasp, if even those far from us, which we - in a flash-like memory
- employ.

Later, based Ange his head, stared ahead sinnend out, then grabbed
a pencil and went on a leaf of paper all sorts of notes. Apparently she
dealt with her children, perhaps she once their wishes for Christmas
together. And then she went again full zeal to work, diligently touched
the hand and took breaks only to the seams with a fingernail nachzuglätten.
Who they are now so once was and had known! A feeling of hot emotion had
to rise up and transform itself in admiration. Once on the other stressed
Teut strong excitation in the mustache.

How long he stood there now, and yet the time flew him how quickly seconds.
There were lively thoughts, which employed him.

He saw what was going on, and saw it's not, because while he was looking
hineintauchte, many thoughts went through his head. And now moving Ange
frost in the upper body quiet and went, leaving the needle fold,
falling repeatedly on the eyelids.

She stared out in front, thought and pondered, until at last they
overcame fatigue and their eyes are closed.

Once they are still fighting blinked on, then dropped the head deeper
and deeper, and finally, she sat there motionless. She was eingeschlummert.
"Ange, Ange," muttered the man in violent motion, again directed a long
look at the now dormant and left gently and almost frightened by
his own steps on the hartgefrorenen, creaking ground the place where
he saw what a dumb, but so eloquent language was spoken. * * * * *
On the following mornings slipped Ange - they had learned by chance,
where she pledged against a loan could receive - with zagendem heart
into Versatzamt and gave the money which she was so desperately
needed.

She had, inter alia, their golden clock - a precious piece - and was
abandoned by the designated amount actually received in the position to
its neighbor, the sum advanced to be able to pay back. He reluctantly
granted her service as the fire burned on the soul, and she found
no rest until they are the sum in his hands had to go. "Who paid for his
debt, improved its assets," said Putz, without a surprise on the date
formerly held on the day to create, and also fired employees without
demand or supply for other cases. On the same afternoon made Ange on
the way in order to make purchases, and Ben, her assistant and
confidant in all things had become, had to accompany them. As a fairly
laconic herschritt beside him, he clings to them tenderly, and when
they inform him of its concerns with a cheerful countenance was
looking to take, he saw it with his deep eyes and pressed her arm
fixed, they had taken, as was it is her little cavalier.

When Ange on again and everything überrechnete with one: "You poor guy
will get little or nothing!" regretful words to their favorite dropped,
said the boy: "I want nothing, I need nothing, Mama!" "You really
get nothing, my dear boy, had no fear!"

compassionate they operated. "What I've assigned to you, is something that
you did badly and what I liked you better have gegönnt!" The next, the
last night before the festivities, Ange and Ben wanted a tree
ornament.

Today she sat still with busy hand and worked in a woolen scarf for
Jorinde, it went better, but spared, and cold air in eight had to
be taken.

Anges face was a little happier, a quiet, gentle in their train was
used. What they had achieved, at least temporarily filled with a
happy meeting, and only one was forced into their melancholy thought:
that the detention without Tibet should be celebrated. They also thought
Carlos', her husband, but primarily came Teut in their thoughts. She
sighed deeply on. A consuming desire seized them after him. They demanded
his voice firm, his gaze, after his participation, according to his - love.
Ange looked after the clock. It was just ten. Still, she wanted
to stay up longer than yesterday, where they care for their suffering
to do was sleep. And just at that moment she heard a noise outside at the
door, and the next was also pulled the bell. Surprised, she turned to
the frightened look to the outside. The girl was already gone to
rest, the children slept.

They could not understand who is still so late intake could covet. Instead
of going to the hallway, she to the window and peered out cautiously.

But like a lightning drove them back, because when she moved the
curtain, she saw the wall right next to a man, whose only form the
outlines could be seen, but whose trains her in the darkness remained
veiled.

One moment! Then they grabbed, pushed, to dampen their excitement,
hand on heart and wondered briefly with artificial text: "Who's
there and what is desired?"

"Dear Countess! Dear friend, I am, Teut! Fright you not! I'm just arrived.
I have to speak perfectly. Please, open. Forgive this late intrusion.
"Teut - so suddenly - no display - later in the night? - Ange lost their
breath, almost the reflection . It was his voice, the same voice that
they so long and not heard in their sound her heart threatened to shatter.
Again she looked out, then ahnendes outweighed their concerns and feel
fear.

With a faint, trembling: "I come - I do to!" they came out and opened
it. Yes, it was Teut! With a suppressed scream, totenblaß - and as he
now zutrat on them and took her hand - with the flaming red of the
excitement over, they stood there and no word was powerful.

But when she had reached the room, as the light fell on his features,
when the tall, powerful figure appeared before her, such as serious
and yet so kindly look in his eyes they met, because she followed
the involuntary movement of his hands, came to him suddenly and was
crying softly on his chest.

Some moments remained the two people in that silent, internal movement,
in which each idea hinabtaucht into a single sensation, and in the words
to be Thränen. But then he grabbed it and refused it gently into a
chair, bent over her and looked long into her eyes.

"It had everything you thun and completely forget that Axel von Teut only
one purpose in life in this world had to make you happy? But I can
not, Hadern too, but telling you that my anxiety was no longer Mr.
fiebernden and my thoughts are zusammendrängten in the sole desire:
They finally again!

And now you hear me and stop me. Would you? "Quiet approvingly moving
Given the principal. "Take, read first and foremost to provide the occasion
of my sudden coming to explain," Teut drove away and unfolded a letter.
"Or, no! Let me, "he interrupted himself and began Anges approval by a
gentle glance seek:" Dear Uncle Axel! "
Proclama .-- I also loved the soul and he was in love with my soul.
MARINO .-- And why you divorced from her? Proclama .-- For a thousand
reasons. Neither she nor I wanted to pollute the purity of love that
binds us forever. Both anhelábamos further smooth the path upward to the
right and into the light lofty us.

We were too young. We were all still up to us to be.

We decided, therefore, separated by love of our own love. We promised
to meet when they no longer had any danger. Venus Urania has shown me
that no longer exists, and that's why I come in search of Asclepigenia.
.-- MARINO revelation was good.

There is more to see, master, to know that you are not dangerous. Proclama
.-- You are right over you. MARINO .-- The fame has spread, for this
great capital, to honor with your presence and you will receive in
consultation three people each night. By Senator Marciano, so
that the house you are not crowded, have been allocated tickets for
entry. Iran will soon reach its order for those who come to see you today.
Your servants the stop in the lobby. I then drive up to you. Proclama
Marciano .-- While professing the religion of Christ is a good
friend of mine and it seems to me in many things.

He loves the Virgin Empress Pulqueria as I love the daughter of
Plutarco.

Marciano, who will soon completed twelve years, two more than me,
say they marry Pulqueria with whom he has to share in Holy honesty,
the throne and the empire of the East.

Similarly, Asclepigenia share with me the throne and the rule of
philosophy. But I hear noise in the antechamber. Go and see if
someone has.

(Sale Marino and returns a moment later.) MARINO .-- Master!
She stood the journey perfectly well, and in the passage to Dover she
suffered so little from the rough weather that she was an example to many
robust matrons who filled the ladies' cabin with the noise of their
anguish during the night. She would have insisted upon taking the first
train up to London, if March had not represented that this would not
expedite the sailing of the Cupania, and that she might as well stay the
forenoon at the convenient railway hotel, and rest. It was not quite his
ideal of repose that the first people they saw in the coffee-room when
they went to breakfast should be Kenby and Rose Adding, who were having
their tea and toast and eggs together in the greatest apparent
good-fellowship. He saw his wife shrink back involuntarily from the
encounter, but this was only to gather force for it; and the next moment
she was upon them in all the joy of the surprise. Then March allowed
himself to be as glad as the others both seemed, and he shook hands with
Kenby while his wife kissed Rose; and they all talked at once. In the
confusion of tongues it was presently intelligible that Mrs. Kenby was
going to be down in a few minutes; and Kenby took March into his
confidence with a smile which was, almost a wink in explaining that he
knew how it was with the ladies. He said that Rose and he usually got
down to breakfast first, and when he had listened inattentively to Mrs.
March's apology for being on her way home, he told her that she was lucky
not to have gone to Schevleningen, where she and March would have frozen
to death. He said that they were going to spend September at a little
place on the English coast, near by, where he had been the day before
with Rose to look at lodgings, and where you could bathe all through the
month. He was not surprised that the Marches were going home, and said,
Well, that was their original plan, wasn't it?

Mrs. Kenby, appearing upon this, pretended to know better, after the
outburst of joyful greeting with the Marches; and intelligently reminded
Kenby that he knew the Marches had intended to pass the winter in Paris.
She was looking extremely pretty, but she wished only to make them see
how well Rose was looking, and she put her arm round his shoulders as she
spoke, Schevleningen had done wonders for him, but it was fearfully cold
there, and now they were expecting everything from Westgate, where she
advised March to come, too, for his after-cure: she recollected in time
to say, She forgot they were on their way home. She added that she did
not know when she should return; she was merely a passenger, now; she
left everything to the men of the family. She had, in fact, the air of
having thrown off every responsibility, but in supremacy, not submission.
She was always ordering Kenby about; she sent him for her handkerchief,
and her rings which she had left either in the tray of her trunk, or on
the pin-cushion, or on the wash-stand or somewhere, and forbade him to
come back without them. He asked for her keys, and then with a joyful
scream she owned that she had left the door-key in the door and the whole
bunch of trunk-keys in her trunk; and Kenby treated it all as the
greatest joke; Rose, too, seemed to think that Kenby would make
everything come right, and he had lost that look of anxiety which he used
to have; at the most he showed a friendly sympathy for Kenby, for whose
sake he seemed mortified at her. He was unable to regard his mother as
the delightful joke which she appeared to Kenby, but that was merely
temperamental; and he was never distressed except when she behaved with
unreasonable caprice at Kenby's cost.

As for Kenby himself he betrayed no dissatisfaction with his fate to
March. He perhaps no longer regarded his wife as that strong character
which he had sometimes wearied March by celebrating; but she was still
the most brilliant intelligence, and her charm seemed only to have grown
with his perception of its wilful limitations. He did not want to talk
about her so much; he wanted rather to talk about Rose, his health, his
education, his nature, and what was best to do for him. The two were on
terms of a confidence and affection which perpetually amused Mrs. This
form, this counterclaim intimacy increased Anges depressed mood,
which became their ignorance of human relationships.

They needed to travel to Frankfurt three times or five times what they
did? You did not know it. She was so shy and insecure become that they
can not be determined by the cost of the trip ventured to ask, because
they feared it would be noticeable. Also, the means and purposes
according to their importance they are already confused. To put them if
they still have the right, in a coupe, first or second class travel.

No! Those who had nothing, had the duty to restrict. You could just buy
the cheapest ticket. But they should hurry to the station in her own car,
followed by a servant, leaving back such a budget, and a seat next to
smoking, perhaps drunken men are taking in an unheated coupe? You, the
elegant lady, in the precious travel coat, which cost a small
fortune think?

Ah! cost hundreds of fur, and they caused a fraction, this almost wanted
to despair?

He had such a great value, why not sell it?

That's it yes indeed! She was powerless to act, now at least in these first
days. Again and again this contrasts between truth and illusion, "Carlos,
Carlos!"

Ange yelled at. Once again, increased the feeling of bitterness upwards,
albeit in this gentle soul just as quickly to be quenched.

Last Ange was yet another troubled thoughts controlled. If they are not
returned! If someone took her husband's papers, they read and the world
apparently was that he had to hand himself laid -?

Stood higher than all but a duty to his name on the grave to keep up. They
decided to destroy its records, and their piety had them again but with
the execution hesitate.

Thus the poor woman, in the hands of the few pieces of gold and the
heart full of doubts, worries and fears.

It was in a state of violent struggle. Your good nature leaned against
the secret to her inner Flüsterstimmen what their zuriefen: Say whatever
you will lie and you out of your worry free! Repeatedly crossed
their minds the question: How do you manage your money?

And again and again answered the busy little devil: Turn away the
truth, avoiding, hiding them and hide your distress from a careless
mien.

And this whispering voice was not wholly wrong. Olga's letter gave the
evidence. Once decided, Ange, is to entrust the governess, but she
rejected that plan as everyone else. Lies, conceal, she could not explain
everything openly, forbade her in the light of experience the wisdom.
Meanwhile, the servant came back and reported that the train at noon
abginge. It lacked a few hours. Already he wished, after completing
its mission to remove as Ange hinwarf indifferent: "You know the price
of the randomly Billets, Philip?" The servant affirmed by a Kursbuch
nachschlug, which he had bought and Ange einhändigte. How significant was
it ! While he looked, troubled employees, the idea that this book must
still be paid, that the servant had covered the amount. Now, this was
called the fare for first class.

"And the second?" Ange asked the top by providing their thoughts
in the hastily-called sum with its small property compared. "Well,
thank you." The servant bowed and went. Ange It was almost a consolation
that the self had assumed that they would choose first class. Still seemed
to their environment by completely changing circumstances nothing to know.
And the money that Ange had passed. Admittedly, there was nothing in the
home, but in two days was also sure everything! So they are calmed down
and decided to travel. She gave the last orders, spoke of the small
supply so long to begütigend until they were satisfied, and finally drove
to the fixed time to the Station. The children climbed the car with her
and were, as always, when they appeared, from the curious people
watched. As was the governess, in respectful distance, a part of the
servants, before the portal was open Kalesche adorned with the Count's
coat of arms; on the pedestal sat the coachman in the gorgeous livery,
the Coupé ascended the beautiful, elegant woman in a beautiful
fur. No wonder that the distance between the individual and those
abwog. Certainly, but it was an enviable woman! If they also had heartbreak,
but they struggled with the daily life of the needle sticks. They sat
at least in its magnificent rooms in abundance and good living, was
in very different circumstances than those who umherstanden! And now, hugs
and farewell! A hot Thränlein Anges sparkled in the eye. Abschiedskuß
And another and another. Now the locomotive whistled. "Adieu, adieu! Be
obedient and good, sweet child!" A white cloth fluttered a moment from
the Coupé. Now Mama Ange had departed. * * * * * Ange remained alone,
and the trip went quickly. Your thoughts were so vivid that they hardly
noticed what about them was experiencing. She dealt primarily with Teut.
you had him in a few words written him and asked that he let her
reply.

If it was only a letter from him in your hands, if his words of consolation.
If his compassion they would touch, it frightens them, so long that
he had not heard of that. Of course, the troops moved from place to place,
fights were out and battles were beaten, where time and stayed calm,
even for the most important things! How often attacked Ange a violent
desire for him! They longed for his views, according to his word. Wherever
he worked, pointed to the things of itself An indescribable feeling of
security she had always pervaded if Teut nearby and was advising her to
stand. And then alternately directed their thoughts on Tibet and the
children. The things that those concerned, so embarrassing nature they
were, they are less worried, but it employed their thoughts, whether
they zustoßen nothing will. Ben should protect the stomach, Erna had to
take medicine, she found a deterrent bitter, and only her mom could
they have to convince her that this was necessary. And the school of
boys, and the grief of the small Ange! Whether they probably would have
calmed down? How bitterly she had wept at the station. Ange threw several
times looking out the window and let the already half in the fading
twilight things that pass by. A restless, stormy weather with snow drift
had arisen and put his sky flakes dense and relentless on the landscape
around. It appeared in rapid Flights villages, cities, a single house,
there is a spark of fire into the air sending factory chimney upwards,
then small items such as lost in the wilderness of snow-appearing
house keeper, sharply limited telegraph wires, are prone soon, soon
rising to the aspiring glockengezierten supports, such as a flash
Erdfäden visible being dark and disappearing.

And now once again flat, endless, snowy country from which an individual
entblätterter tree as a symbol of the raw undressed melancholically season
it became evident. And continue to always continue in frenzied haste, for
hours, until the shrill whistle of the locomotive brake groan followed,
and both the scenery outside, as well as the churning sound of the
train then Stürm his character changed: now hollow, such as underground
sounding beats, caused through some grim and growing on the Nebengeleisen
beseechingly railway carriages, small red and green lights, like eerie
Erdgeister progressively lighter air, appearing as a reflection of life
in homes and cabins, and then a final short scream of the locomotive,
again by screeching brakes and eventually halt and tranquility. And now
cries, rushed steps, loud speaking, the rattling of the postal packet
wagons, construction and addition of doors and windows to the coupe while
a whistling Sausen sturmdurchwehten from the station hall.'s then went
on again as one of the furies whipped, live monster out into the storm,
the snow and into the night.

And again the same or similar images: series of unequal houses, weißglitzernde
rooftops, hundreds of lights, long, sparse beschienene Bright, deserted
streets, from the air like frozen umnebelten towering towers, wagons
again, an individual such as a fire demon with red eyes vorbeisausende
locomotive - a jerk, nor a reckless jerk to the switches, and finally
a uniform hunter, panting, then colliding Stampfenbachstrasse of
flying courier train. hour after the train ride was again a minute.

The door coupe in Anges was torn up. It seemed one of the last stations
to be Frankfurt.

Rapid words were made between a course herbeieilenden nervously in the
passenger and the conductor. "Quick here, it is high time -" A whistle
of the train drivers - a blow, - a gentleman rose to a whistle of the
locomotive and the train now rustled them anew. The stranger, apparently
belonging to the better stalls , Ange greeted initially seemed
fleeting and, in spite of the weak light, in reading a newspaper
deepened.

Gradually, however, he began his views on matters to be addressed and
finally in such a benign and intrusive way to consider that they so
vividly disturbed. The man looked scary from. He wore a dark beard
Knebel, had examined the eyes, those eyes, a terrible, dumb language talk,
and in addition elect to wear one to the neck zugeknöpfte sharp Sammetweste
red with white buttons. Ange could not explain why it is this
jacket so eerie feeling einjagte.

At last the man broke the silence and asked in French, whether it is - they
might forgive - a hotel in Frankfurt would be known. It was strange and
had failed to inquire. Ange and was denied, albeit politely, by their
facial expressions to understand that they have no wish to see
conversation.

"Will you stay in Frankfurt, gracious lady?" yet the stranger began
again. "Perhaps - my Lord!" Ange and turned to the larger hardening its
defenses strong view against the window and looked out.

The stranger remained undecided for some time, but then took the floor
again and made a mockery mixed with a fine excuse. At the same time he
changed the place and looked in infringing intrusiveness Anges
attention.

Ange shudders, but this time it was limited to a single view through which
the stranger to his place looked dismissed. In That seemed the man
to finally be taught; He remained silent. Ange now manifesting itself with
closed eyes in the corner of the seat. But even through the eyelids,
she saw fear in her show, the red vest and glittering eyes of a stranger
in front of him. Sounded from outside the bustling noise of the flying
car then, even a short whistle of the locomotive, now hunted by another
train, coming from Frankfurt, on the rails. As the wild hunt raced
and flew it with a short, hissing sausendem, the storm wind in the back
at them over. Then came the previous periodic noises again. "My gracious
lady, I ask, my gracious lady!" now penetrated the voice of the stranger
in half pleading, half-tone of benign and intrusive Anges ear. "My Lord,
I must urge that you also do not bother me, you have a lady in front of
you! Again, for the last time I had already clearly shown that I do not
want conversation. "But the stranger did not stir from the spot. Ange
seemed to him in their anger only charming. "How can you be excited to be
indignant!" kopfschüttelnd he began again, looking Anges eyes, moved
closer and touched on other soothing words, even after her hand. A
hot passionate grazed in the hand during a second That Anges rights. "My
Lord, I lack the words for your consultation! I command you to
immediately withdraw!" Ange said, flew up and directed her slender,
in mourning clothes, the dark-clad figure as areas on the man that
he zurückprallte.

"If your not feeling better by themselves awake when your blatant
intrusiveness not set, I will pull the Zugleine I Thue there with
God now, immediately -" When the foreigners, despite the disarmament,
which is reflected in its mines, this Call not yet followed, Ange
grabbed the belt, pulled up the window and cried, while they scanned
the line, into the darkness beyond help.

The black night squinted pitying loose with her face in the sparsely lit
room, her white flakes whirled deathbed In the coupe, cold, icy draft
was forced into it. Now the locomotive whistled, and the black, with a
thousand invisible atoms geschwängerte smoke threw his stinking breath
into the coupe, penetrated with the icy air into Anges throat and
killed every sound. Forward! Forward! The train raced there! As the shear
dumb pointer at the large clock human transactions, even the cry of a
child geängstigten people what the mood a benign and intrusive? Fortunately
for Ange now the train had already reached Frankfurt soft image.

The stranger made himself hastily with his stuff to create and supply
turned, still breathless excitement, the coupe back. A few moments and the
final whistle sounded. The car stopped, the doors were put up, the
stranger jumped with a short, shy greeting rushed out so quickly that
offer it in the next second lost from sight, and they even left, still
under the effects of terror on her geschwebt the uncanny space and
drove into the city. * * * * * When Ange after a night full of exciting
dreams and concerns to a consideration of the tasks of the day came
and at first remembered that some money funds needed, she sat long
pondering and since could not become a decision aufzuraffen. Only those
who are in a situation of life ever found, in a minimum of not only
missing, but also look into the future before the saddest eyes, will
the state of despondency and insecurity understand what it was. The
retroactive effect of the excitement dispelled the evening, the monetary
concern caused by the impressions, namely the feeling that something
else to appear when the environment requires the foreign city, the
impending police interrogation - all this had such an impact on
employees from that, to progress already placed on the stairs again
reversed themselves in their room zurückbegab, and crying after
making rang.

And this was their last! Yes, even more. So far to no expression was
reached, because the test lacked proper, designed to gradually
clear and strong in its interior.

They thought their children, and the memory of this enhanced their sense
of duty. The nobility of her soul helped her to an irreversible
decision and a firm resolve.

Now it became clear that they come from a better timber was cut
than the average of those in the world umherwandeln.

Rückblick No more carefree to earlier times, no comparisons! Straight she
directed her eye!

A holy Ernst penetrated them: moral seriousness that took hold of
her, without which no one may dare to place the struggle of life
to come, but anyone with a box that opened its ends without limits
seem to be.

Ange decided to start a car to take and after a Pelzgeschäft
to go, then they wanted to go into the police building. After she asked
the doorman confiscated - it was red at her question - she from.

Barely ten minutes later she entered the magazine and put the mantle,
which they had deducted the car, the buyer, a young man with a morose
mien business before. "I am on the journey. This fur is superfluous to me,
I wish to sell him. Do you have the goodness, to examine him and to
name a price?" The Angeredete pushed the precious pieces back and forth
finally nodded and said: "I believe that we would acquire the
mantle.

But the boss is currently traveling.

Would it not until tomorrow to hold?

I can not conclude the trade alone!" Ange replied that it was not possible
, and asked for another address. After a sullen reply was, removed it.
Ange went through a series of wide streets and alleys before they reached
their destination.

The big business houses with their shutters decorated towers above her.
They quickly saw the carts and people that looked into the haze and
confusion of traffic and was attracted here, there disgusted by
the images of the noisy life.

But these impressions were almost just like a shadow next to the idea,
which is employed by them. And because suddenly appeared at the exhibitions
is also a figure in front of her, which she knew. In Flights of passing
saw Ange their travel companions, they also noticed a few seconds
while the triangular tip of his little red vest under the zugeknöpften
Rock. The man did not leave Frankfurt! But like much, the memory effect
on them and let them fearful unease in their rise up - that was happily
overcome. Now, in the bustling city felt no fear. Finally stopped the
car. But this was not what was looking for Ange. It was in a small alley
and understood only too soon that the coachman she had misunderstood.

Ange looked at the clock it was already late. Under rapid decision commanded
them, according to the police building to proceed. She wanted the car
waiting on her return the coat to sell, and then the man ablohnen. "Wait!"
Ange said, after the police building was achieved. And in an untimely
honesty she added: "It may take a little long." "Then you pay off me!"
cried the coachman. "My horse has been going on yesterday evening, I
would like to relax." Ange frightened. "I do not have a little money
-" "I'll go change," the man turned and jumped from the trestle. "No, no,
wait!" Ange said, ran quickly to the door and cut so all the other issues
that could prepare her inconvenient. The money, which they are made
to C, had just enough for the journey, they could not even the coachman
to pay. Ange After the bell of understanding had been entered the
rooms of the Kriminalkommissarius.

One of the officials present there did not know precisely, the head was
not present. It remained Given the choice to wait or return. They
fluctuated. Before she decided to go, she asked to Tibet, and after
some back and Herred they received the decision, the Inkulpat was in
prison, and it was not possible and allowed to see him or talk. The
official, who politely , albeit briefly provided information had looked
up, baffled as Ange, lost in thought, before hinstarrte. raffte Now they
are on and explained in a few hours to try to ask again. In Thür turned
it around again.

"I ask that the Commissioner on his return handed over my card and
want to report that I've introduced." An official at the address squinted,
nodded and looked indifferent to his work. "Adieu!" This greeting was
hardly reciprocated . So, Ange.

Returned to the hotel, she let the coachman ablohnen and went after some
rest and relaxation once again after the police office on the
way. When they finally after long wait vorgelassen was, she was a
serious man with a view to researching and resulted in a longer
conversation.

"I come, Mr. Commissioner, because of my days at vorgestrigen servant
arrested Ernst Tibet." "I have the honor of being the wife of the
countess -" The officers looked for Anges name, she asked with a
polite move to sit, hand behind him after a Aktenfascikel, leafing
through it and bowed his head approvingly, as those are now the
word "Claire Fort itself added."

All right!

The arrested is relying on the testimony of Ms. Ange Countess by Claire
Fort, born Baroness of Butin, wife of the late Captain Carlos by
Claire continued.

If this is true, madam! " The Commissioner appealed to the inquiring
gaze. Ange bowed themselves. "The operations that the circumstances of
the arrest of Ernst Tibet unfruitful, are you aware, madam? - No -
I will then begin to read the minutes. However, a preliminary: assets
to legitimize yourself? I ask for your papers. "Ange knew at the same time
several times and asked questions not directly respond to all of the
latter remained in her hurry." legitimacy? I do not understand, Mr
Commissioner! " "It would be an officially certified document
from C., some of the local police masters, enough .-- You have no such?
- Maybe you can by a local personality rekognoszieren leave .-- Not? -
Hmm, the more difficult However the matter. "
"Then you believe that if I could have waited till--till--but when I had
found out, don't you see I couldn't wait? It would have been all very
well if I hadn't known it till then. But as I did know it. Don't you
see?"

"Yes, that certainly complicated it," Mrs. March admitted. "But I don't
think, if he'd been a false nature, he'd have owned up as he did. You
see, he didn't try to deny it; and that's a great point gained."

"Yes, that is true," said Agatha, with conviction. "I saw that
afterwards. But you don't think, Mrs. March, that I was unjust or--or
hasty?"

"No, indeed! You couldn't have done differently under the circumstances.
You may be sure he felt that--he is so unselfish and generous--" Agatha
began to weep into her handkerchief again; Mrs. March caressed her hand.
"And it will certainly come right if you feel as you do."

"No," the girl protested. "He can never forgive me; it's all over,
everything is over. It would make very little difference to me, what
happened now--if the steamer broke her shaft, or anything. But if I can
only believe I wasn't unjust--"

Mrs. March assured her once more that she had behaved with absolute
impartiality; and she proved to her by a process of reasoning quite
irrefragable that it was only a question of time, with which place had
nothing to do, when she and Burnamy should come together again, and all
should be made right between them. The fact that she did not know where
he was, any more than Mrs. March herself, had nothing to do with the
result; that was a mere detail, which would settle itself. She clinched
her argument by confessing that her own engagement had been broken off,
and that it had simply renewed itself. All you had to do was to keep
willing it, and waiting. There was something very mysterious in it.

"And how long was it till--" Agatha faltered.

"Well, in our ease it was two years."

"Oh!" said the girl, but Mrs. March hastened to reassure her.

"But our case was very peculiar. I could see afterwards that it needn't
have been two months, if I had been willing to acknowledge at once that I
was in the wrong. I waited till we met."

"If I felt that I was in the wrong, I should write," said Agatha. "I
shouldn't care what he thought of my doing it."

"Yes, the great thing is to make sure that you were wrong."

They remained talking so long, that March and the general had exhausted
all the topics of common interest, and had even gone through those they
did not care for. At last the general said, "I'm afraid my daughter will
tire Mrs. March."

"Oh, I don't think she'll tire my wife. But do you want her?"

"Well, when you're going down."

"I think I'll take a turn about the deck, and start my circulation," said
March, and he did so before he went below.

He found his wife up and dressed, and waiting provisionally on the sofa.
"I thought I might as well go to lunch," she said, and then she told him
about Agatha and Burnamy, and the means she had employed to comfort and
encourage the girl. "And now, dearest, I want you to find out where
Burnamy is, and give him a hint. You will, won't you! If you could have
seen how unhappy she was!"

"I don't think I should have cared, and I'm certainly not going to
meddle. I think Burnamy has got no more than he deserved, and that he's
well rid of her. I can't imagine a broken engagement that would more
completely meet my approval. As the case stands, they have my blessing."

"Don't say that, dearest! You know you don't mean it."

"I do; and I advise you to keep your hands off. You've done all and more
than you ought to propitiate Miss Triscoe. You've offered yourself up,
and you've offered me up--"

"No, no, Basil! I merely used you as an illustration of what men
were--the best of them."

"And I can't observe," he continued, "that any one else has been
considered in the matter. Is Miss Triscoe the sole sufferer by Burnamy's
flirtation? What is the matter with a little compassion for the pivotal
girl?"

"Now, you know you're not serious," said his wife; and though he would
not admit this, he could not be seriously sorry for the new interest
which she took in the affair. There was no longer any question of
changing their state-room. Under the tonic influence of the excitement
she did not go back to her berth after lunch, and she was up later after
dinner than he could have advised. She was absorbed in Agatha, but in her
liberation from her hypochondria, she began also to make a comparative
study of the American swells, in the light of her late experience with
the German highhotes. It is true that none of the swells gave her the
opportunity of examining them at close range, as the highhotes had done.
687 December 67), was the senior men immediately disavowed democracy with
their consent and the law already on the day after it is carried by the
Senate collects. In the same sense in the year were 689 (65) decision
by the people all the stranger that is neither Roman nor Latin had
right citizens, expelled from the capital. You see, the inner contradiction
of Gracchischen policy, while the desire for inclusion of the excluded
into the circle of the privileged and the privileged to maintain their
special rights to take into account was also transferred to their
successor: while Caesar and his one hand, the Transpadanern civil
rights were in prospect, the other, they gave their consent to the
continuation of the Reset the freedmen and the barbaric elimination
of competition, the industry and the commercial skills of the Greeks
and Orientals in Italy, the Italy made itself.

Characteristic is the way to democracy in terms of the old criminal
jurisdiction of the Komitien did. Sulla had not actually lifted the
same, but actually were but the jury commissions on high treason and murder
in their place, and a serious restoration of the old, long before
Sulla quite impractical procedure, no sensible person could think.
But as yet the idea of a recognition of the Volkssouveraenitaet embarrassing
jurisdiction of the residents at least in principle, seemed to demand,
it drew the Volkstribun Labienus Titus in the year 691 (63) the old
man, who eight years before the Volkstribun slain Lucius Saturninus had
or should have before the same court hochnotpeinliche neck, by virtue of
which, if legally Chronicle reported that the king Tullus the
Schwestermoerder Horatius verrechtfertigt had. The accused was a certain
Gaius Rabirius the Saturninus if not killed, but at least with the
head cut off at the same tables make the parade had made, and more
generally, in the Apulian Menschenfaengerei landowner for his deeds
and his blood was infamous.

It was, if not the accuser himself, but the smarter men who stood behind
him, certainly not about to do this miserable Gesellen the death on
the Cross to die, not reluctant to let it happen that initially the form
of the indictment Senate substantially mitigated, then the conviction
of the culprits for People's Assembly appointed under any pretext of
the opposite party dissolved, and thus the whole procedure was eliminated.
More by this method were the two Roman Palladien of freedom, the law
of provocation residents and the inviolability of Volkstribunats,
once established as a practical legal and democratic right of the new
ground has been repaired.

Even more passion joined the democratic response in all individuals on
matters where they just could not and some could. While offering her the
wisdom, the return of Sulla confiscated goods to the former owners not
to stress, not with its own allies to divide and at the same time with
the material interests in a battle to come, the policy trend is rarely
grown, even Emigrated to the Rueckberufung with this Vermoegensfrage hung
too closely together, so as not to appear as unraetlich.
To the right a bank of dun cloud began to burn crimson,
and to burn brighter till it was like a low hill-side full of gorgeous
rugosities fleeced with a dense dwarfish growth of autumnal shrubs. The
whole eastern heaven softened and flushed through diaphanous mists; the
west remained a livid mystery. The eastern masses and flakes of cloud
began to kindle keenly; but the stars shone clearly, and then one star,
till the tawny pink hid it. All the zenith reddened, but still the sun
did not show except in the color of the brilliant clouds. He was
dissatisfied with himself, because he actually wanted the Baron so
cool challenge, but the anger was wilder than his will. Quietly, without
haste, he turned to the stairs.

"Excuse me, Mr. Baron, his naughtiness. You know, he is a nervous child,
"they still stuttered, confused by a little gloating eyes of the people
that they around anstarrten. Nothing in the world was her terrible than
scandal, and she knew that she now had to maintain. Rather like the
flight to take, she went first to the bell, asked for letters and
other indifferent things and then swept up as if nothing had happened.

But behind her whimpered a soft wake of Zischeln and suppressed laughter.
Unterwegs slowed her step. She was always serious situations helpless
and had actually afraid of this confrontation. The fact that she was
guilty, she could not deny, and then they afraid of the sight of the
child, this new, strange, so strange sight, they made paralyzed and
uncertain. Fearing decided to take it with gentleness to try. Because
in a fight was that she knew, this irritated child now stronger. Leisegang
inserts them at the door. The boy sat there, quiet and cool. The eyes,
which he picked up to her, were entirely without fear, not even betrayed
curiosity. He seemed to be very safe. "Edgar," she began as maternal, "what
is your haggard? I am ashamed for you. How can you be just as bad, even
as a child to an adult! You will then immediately apologize when Mr.
Baron. "Edgar looked out the window. The "No," he said, as compared to
the trees.'s Safety, she began to be alienating. "Edgar, what is going
on with you before? You're so completely different than usual?

I am no longer in you out.

You were always an otherwise intelligent, child-like, with which one could
talk.

And suddenly you Behave as if the devil drove in thee. What hast thou
against the Baron? You have him very happy had.

He was always so dear to thee. "" Yes, because he wanted you to
know. "She was uncomfortable. "Nonsense! What do you a. How can you think
such a thing? "But since the child went on." He is a liar, a false man.
What he does is calculated and meanness. He has made you want to know,
so he was kind to me and has promised me a dog. I do not know what he
has promised you, and why he is friendly to you, but also from
you, he wants something, my mom, definitely.

Otherwise he would not be so polite and friendly. He is a bad person. He
lies. Look at him only once, as he always looks wrong. Oh, I hate
him, this pathetic liar, these rogue ... "" But Edgar, how can you
say such a thing.

"She was confused and knew not to answer. It stirred a sense that the
child was right. "Yes, he is a villain, which I do not finish. That you
need to see themselves. Why does he fear me? Why is he hiding from me?
Because he knows that I understand him, that I know him, these
scoundrels!

"" How can you say such a thing, how can you say such a thing. "My
brain was dried up, only the bloodless lips were coming again and
again the two sentences. It began suddenly a terrible fear, and that I
knew not, whether before or in front of the Baron Baby. Edgar saw that
his warning impression. And it tempts him to be herüberzureißen
a fellow to have in Hasse, in the hostility against him. Soft, he went to
his mother, covered her, and his voice was flatteringly before
excitation.

"Mama," said he, "you need to be there but even noticed that he had
nothing good will. He has made you quite differently. You're changed, and
not me. He has aufgehetzt you against me, just to you alone to
have. Sure, he wants to cheat you. I do not know what he has promised
you. I just know he will not hold. You should beware before him. If
you have a lying, deceiving the other. He is an evil man, you should not
trust. "This voice, soft and almost in tears and sounded like from their
own hearts.
It would have been
such a cheap performance on the part of life, which has all sorts of
chances at command, and need not descend to the poor tricks of
second-rate fiction; and he accused Burnamy of a complicity in the bad
taste of the affair, though he realized, when he reflected, that if it
were really Burnamy he must have sailed in as much unconsciousness of the
Triscoes as he himself had done. He had probably got out of money and had
hurried home while he had still enough to pay the second-cabin fare on
the first boat back. Clearly he was not to blame, but life was to blame
for such a shabby device; and March felt this so keenly that he wished to
turn from the situation, and have nothing to do with it. He kept moving
toward him, drawn by the fatal attraction, and at a few paces' distance
the young man whirled about and showed him the face of a stranger.

ASCLEPIGENIA .-- In-One unit is in all his powers, virtues, powers and
other attributes, is always yours. Proclama .-- So, you love me? ASCLEPIGENIA
.-- I love you. Just knew you were here, I have come to you. Proclama
.-- Since there is no danger. ASCLEPIGENIA .-- I see it. Proclama .--
¿live together? ASCLEPIGENIA .-- And why not? I have a magnificent palace
where albergarte. Be my philosopher. Contigo, through contemplation, on
the wings of enthusiasm and love of the macula, arrobaré me, and I lost
my extasiaré in uno proclama .-- So be it.

ASCLEPIGENIA .-- Now I must leave you. I can not miss this night in my
palace, where visitors look. Go to settle there since morning. Proclama
.-- No hope otherwise. ASCLEPIGENIA.
There wouldn't have been any
difficulty about his being in the second-cabin. We could have contrived
to have them meet somehow. If the worst came to the worst you could have
lent him money to pay the difference, and got him into the first-cabin."

"I could have taken that six-hundred-dollar room for him," said March,
"and then he could have eaten with the swells."

She answered that now he was teasing; that he was fundamentally incapable
of taking anything seriously; and in the end he retired before the
stewardess bringing her first coffee, with a well-merited feeling that if
it had not been for his triviality the young Lancashireman would really
have been Burnamy.


LXXV.

Except for the first day and night out from Queenstown, when the ship
rolled and pitched with straining and squeaking noises, and a thumping of
the lifted screws, there was no rough weather, and at last the ocean was
livid and oily, with a long swell, on which she swayed with no
perceptible motion save from her machinery.

Most of the seamanship seemed to be done after dark, or in those early
hours when March found the stewards cleaning the stairs, and the sailors
scouring the promenades. Oh, it is unbelievable! But he could
no longer think clearly. The anger that she had escaped him, and burnt
him verqualmte clear view. He ran out into the woods just yet, he was
able to save into the darkness, where nobody saw him, and since it broke
out in a stream of hot tears. »Liar, dog, cheater, scoundrel" -
he had these words scream out loud, otherwise he would be stifled. The
anger, the impatience, the anger, curiosity, the helplessness and the
betrayal of the last few days, in the childish cramp in his folly adults
held down, blasted the chest and now were tears. It was the last wine
of his childhood, the last wildest wines for the last time he gave out to
the effeminate voluptuousness of tears. He wept in that hour making
everything less anger in itself, trust, love, faith, respect - his entire
childhood. The boy, who then declined to the hotel, was another. He
was cool and acted aforethought. First he went into his room, washed
carefully to the face and eyes to the two not to treat the triumph,
the traces of his tears to be seen.

Then he prepared before the settlement. And waited patiently, without any
trouble. The hall was pretty well attended, as the car with the two
fugitives was outside again. A few men played chess, while others read
their newspaper, the ladies chatted. Among them were motionless, a little
pale with trembling eyes sat the child. As now his mother and the baron
came to the door, a little embarrassed him so suddenly to see, and already
the prepared excuse stammeln wanted, he joined them up and forward
and said quietly challenging, "Mr.

Baron, I would like to say something. "The Baron, it was uncomfortable.
He somehow caught before. "Yes, yes, later, the same!" But Edgar threw
high and the voice said bright and sharp, that all could hear it
ring, "but now I want to talk with you. They have behaved vile. You have
me angelogen. They knew that my mom on me wait, and are ... "" Edgar,
"cried the mother, all eyes looked to be addressed, and fell against
him. But now the child shrieked, as it saw that it his words about
wanted to scream, suddenly piercing on: "I tell you once more
before all people.

You have ignoble lie, and this is common, it's pathetic. "The baron stood
pale, people stared, some were smiling.
His wife sat hand in hand with Miss Triscoe, and from time
to time made him count the pieces of small baggage in the keeping of
their steward; while General Triscoe held aloof in a sarcastic calm.

The steamer groped into her dock; the gangways were lifted to her side;
the passengers fumbled and stumbled down their incline, and at the bottom
the Marches found themselves respectively in the arms of their son and
daughter. They all began talking at once, and ignoring and trying to
remember the Triscoes to whom the young Marches were presented. Bella did
her best to be polite to Agatha, and Tom offered to get an inspector for
the general at the same time as for his father. What we clean all this is
taken is that the worth of Arcipreste and his book is still in balance,
that _Libro Good Amor_ is still an enigma to even the most learned and
discreet. Decrypting the puzzle, make clear the book who can read,
understand and judge learned and unlearned company was worth and that
someone carried out in the first rush. Perhaps the Arcipreste of ill but
it was the first that I tackled, is that I have been, and would have liked
_sátira this wonderful frame of the clergy and even the entire century
society XIV_, as this reduces The book, in a dignified, painted and put
it in the eyes of the reader that corrupt age _cautiverio babilónico_,
as has been called by the theft of the Pope to Rome, led to policies
aimed Avignon by the kings of France . not suffered such an area and
wander the style and size of the books in this library CLASSIC CASTELLANOS,
and I have had to stick to their limits, although I have to clean out
the text, having clarified its literal sense so that any moderately
educated person to understand, and have pointed to the news enough to
know the habits of being and one century. The book, well studied, few
reports are drawn following relating to the strange character of its
author: Llamóse _Juan Ruiz_ (c. 19 and 575). Born in Alcala de
Henares (c. 326, 1510).

Was _Arcipreste of Hita_ village in the province of Guadalajara. This
charge was important, as then all the church, the first of the town, since
the head is Arcipreste all other clerics. He was already dead, probably,
unless they had left the Archpriest, the year 1351, as cited in writing
Archpriest Antonio Sanchez was there and one that year Pedro Fernández;
still more likely to have died by the year 1348, as I gather by
some of the guesswork copla 326 (see my note). He finished composing
his book the year 1343 (c. 1634) is already old (c. 1692) and was
imprisoned in Toledo sent by the Archbishop of that city D. Gil de
Albornoz (c. 1671, 1709). He composed, therefore, the book in the last
years of his life in prison and full of anguish, aggrieved and unfairly
put in prison, "by _causas merely curiales_," said Menéndez y Pelayo ,
and most likely false denunciations about speaking against the Archbishop,
carried by the clerics of Talavera strong bloody angry at the
satire that he wrote against them (c. 1690).

It was understood in person and read Scripture, and civil law Canonical,
the erudition of his Latin-century church and in the books of D.
The children had both to recognize again
and again how well their parents were looking; Tom had to tell his father
about the condition of 'Every Other Week'; Bella had to explain to her
mother how sorry her husband was that he could not come on to meet them
with her, but was coming a week later to take her home, and then she
would know the reason why they could not all, go back to Chicago with
him: it was just the place for her father to live, for everybody to live.
Arcipreste's work is all yours, personal, original. What a gloss comedieta
Latin, which embedded in his book Oriental fables, known to all that they
took some fabliau French literature and the theme of the battle between
D. Carnal and Ms Lent? These are raw materials, which the poet
worked, polished, with breath new life to dream and not by the authors
that such material was offered. Arcipreste Lift the two literary periods,
without belonging to either of the two, although the dejos before him:
that of the apologists and sententious mester last stages of the clergy,
which was what until then had been written, and the rebirth of
awkward and twisted words of D.

Enrique de Villena and the Marqués de Santillana, who came to little,
followed by the lyrical plate and faded from the court of Juan II.
Unbelievable seems that still resonate and retiñendo deep in the
hearts of those metal voice such as a real Vate John Ruiz, were screeching
value, not an effeminate or a dozen boquirrubios but cafile and all that
swarm of ahembrados poetillas whose ñoñeces kept us in their
_Cancionero_ Baena, closing the procession so drained by the Donceles
Luengas more years of bluster and more convoluted and less delicate
and natural poet I know, the famous Juan de Mena!

Past time of heroic epic gestures with his Spanish, which has been the most
perfect model in singing _Mio Cid_, born in the early thirteenth
century a genre of poetry, lyrical or epic or that the same poets
called _mester of clerecia_.

Clérigos were, indeed, for the most part, if only because the culture and
literature to reach more than clerics. Fruit of the Latin church
scholarship, through which they reached a certain way by some of the
ancient mythological history and its heroes, those were to read poems
by monks and students in the nascent universities, their voices
did not reach the mesna Warriors, the courts of kings or popular
festivities and revelries.

His straw
hat looked like a withered leaf in the light of his sad facts; his thin
overcoat affected March's imagination as something like the diaphanous
cast shell of a locust, hopelessly resumed for comfort at the approach of
autumn. He made Burnamy sit down, after he had once risen, and he told
him of Major Eltwin's wish to see him; and he promised to go round with
him to the major's hotel before the Eltwins left town that afternoon.

While he prolonged the interview in this way, Mrs. March was kept from
breaking in upon them only by the psychical experiment which she was
making with the help and sympathy of her daughter at the window of the
dining-room which looked up Sixteenth Street. At the first hint she gave
of the emotional situation which Burnamy was a main part of, her son;
with the brutal contempt of young men for other young men's love affairs,
said he must go to the office; he bade his mother tell his father there
was no need of his coming down that day, and he left the two women
together. It and me arising out of the will, intelligence and speech, and
they create the world. One develops the idea, and they appear to be,
life and harmony and movement, and how much and will be. I unwrap my
idea, and begin the art, religion and science. And One and the creation
of my creation and are confused and are committed to be the same. Do you
understand me now? MARINO .-- I knock your clarity. With apellidarte
rightly deserve the Supreme Pontiff of all faiths, the great citizen of
the republic and the file of all metaphysical metaphysical. No, proclamations,
you are not a mortal. Proclama .-- In essence I am not. In essence I am
eternal.

Seen in my unit, I live in eternity primitive: that is, a stationary point
in which all the infinite duration of the centuries is stopped, and
reconcentrada encrypted. Considered at the apex of my mind, in intelligence,
living in eternity secondary stream of successive stock, perpetual
traffic movement without end, without a career goal, moving, and not just
process. .-- MARINE AND dime, teacher The slaughter that would certainly
do it at the One and salirte penetrate the mind and speech and affection
in this visible universe, what purpose then? proclama .-- For several
purposes, but the principal is of the utmost transcendence. Divine
law that follows the story I was raised in time due to an important function.
My spirit takes meat toward the end of civilization as a whole to
understand all harmonious. The genius of Greece, with its typical and
unique creations, with the dreams of poets from now until Orpheus
and Linus, with his philosophy from Pythagoras to Jámblico with the
discoveries of mathematicians, astronomers and physicists, and
lessons mysteries of Eleusis and Samothrace, the genius of Greece,
with the spoils ópimos brought from Egypt, Persia and even India,
after the conquests of Macedon, all this work, this whole conglomeration
of doctrines, experiments and speculations have been merged into
my head in hot oven or pot.

And fused the whole, I have discarded the dross by virtue of my critical
spirit, and I kept only the metal clean and pure.
"I couldn't bring myself to break in
on the poor things. They are standing at the window together looking over
at St. George's."

Bella silently clasped her hands. March gave cynical laugh, and said,
"Well we are in for it, my dear." Then he added, "I hope they'll take us
with them on their Silver Wedding Journey."




Not least it belongs to our moralizing Arcipreste the intention of
his book and in the literature and Oriental fables Entrevero it,
but not least, before more needs to be taken by the popular poet
_mester of juglaria_, as he frankly neglected by this proclamation
without (c. 1633): Gentlemen, hevos served with little sabidoría:
By giving you all alone fablévos in jograría.

    With these words, and more with his book,
    his songs and "Cantigas de dança e
    troteras, for Jews and Moors and to
    entendederas, school for the blind and for people
    Andariego "(c. 1513, 1514) won
    revolutionary flag in the field of scholarly
    literature, popular sap graft, usually the only
    one that can expand. It was he who buried _The mester
    of clerezia_, tears in the Latin church tradition, he broke
    all the molds worn erudition, rhythms and
    impeded gait sorry, he did take his apologists as
    anyone in the way of scenic and judgmental
    Eastern literature, that their very best prose D. Juan Manuel,
    his contemporary, he gave life to the moral satire, fed better
than the Chancellor and the Rabbi, he who carried the cantigas
Spanish literature, and the villanescas Serranilla Galician, he
settled for ever the realism of our literature, he, in a word, who
gave life to a stroke and in one book to the lyrical to the dramatic,
the picaresque autobiography and, above all, the satire in all its
nuances.

The Archpriest of Hita can not be pigeonholed, as they can not the
few towering geniuses, to be erected on the crowd of poets and
writers common and notable that some of them are.

    Fuel undoubtedly infant
    D. Juan Manuel,
    the only one whose voice can be heard while singing in Hita, but
    either there is a gap. Because our Arcipreste, not only is the
    first poet of his century, but throughout the Spanish
    Middle Ages, and outside Spain Dante can only
    match with him. Who was
    this man so special?
    Beyond what we can say its _Libro Good Amor_ not know not
    one word, and so naturally this book is so artistic and
    ironic and sardonic and Castilian as old and
    little-known letter that he and the author remains until
    today a quisicosa true, an enigma,
    even to the most erudite. To Menendez y Pelayo
    was the Arcipreste "libertine and a
    cleric tabernario; for Puymaigre," a free
    thinker, an enemy of the Church "for José Amador de
    los Rios, in contrast, was" a
    severe moralist cleric sheet if it is true that a thousand
    of them own mischief, as it does to offer expiatory
    victim for the sins
    of his time, accrued on its innocent head "(Menendez
    y Pelayo, _Antología_, III, p. LXII).
    "" No.. "They stood against the harsh. She felt
    that it went to their authority. "Then you will
    eat up here. Alone. And rather than come to our table until
    you've apologized. I'll still teach manners. You
    will not stir from the room
    until I authorize it to you. Have you understood?
    "Edgar smiled. This
    insidious smile seemed already overgrown with his lips to
    his. Inwardly he was angry at themselves
    How foolish of him that he once again has his
    heart away and leave them to Lügnerin still wanted
    to warn. The mother swept out without him once again to
    be. They feared these intersecting eyes. The child
    was her become
    uncomfortable, since she felt that it had its eyes open
    and you just said what they do not know and
    not wanted to hear. Schreck prison was to her,
    an inner voice, their conscience, detached
    from himself, disguised as a child when her
    own child around and they warn them to scorn sehn. Previously,
    the child next to
    her life, a jewel, a toy,
    some love and familiar, perhaps sometimes a burden,
    but something always in the same flow in the same cycle of her
    life ran. For the first time bäumte
    today and resisted against their will. Something
    like hatred mingled now always in the
    memory of their child. But yet,
    now that the stairs, a little tired, went down,
    the sound childish voice from her own breast. "You should
    guard yourself against him." - The warning could
    not be silenced. Because it shone in Vorüberschreiten
    a mirror opposite,
    questioningly looked
    into it deeper and deeper until there lips softly smiling auftaten
    and rounded like a dangerous word. Still sounded
    from inside the voice, but she threw
    up the armpits, as she
    shook all of these concerns are invisible from
    the mirror was a bright look, raffte the dress and
    went down by the strong gesture of a player of his last
    gold piece lingering over the table roll
    it. footprints in the moonlight The waiter, the food
    of Edgar in his office had
    arrested, closed the door. Behind him to crack the
    lock. The child went to get angry: it was apparently
    on behalf of
    his mother happened that he einsperrte like a
    malicious beast. Finster rang it from him.
    "What is happening down there now because, while I'm
    here? What might the two bereden now? Happens at
    the end now that there are secret, and I have missed it?
    Oh, this mystery, which always and everywhere I feel when
    I'm among adults, before they lock the door at
    night, they sink in quiet conversation, I will come
    suddenly, this great mystery to me now since
    days near is hard against the hands, and I still can
    not draw! What have I not already been done to it to be! I've
    had Papa books stolen from the desk and they read, and all
    these strange things that were, only that
    I do not understand. It must somehow be a seal,
    which is only away to find it, maybe in me, perhaps in
    the other. I have asked the maid, she asked me all these
    places in the books to explain, but she has
    ridiculed me. Terrible, to be a child,
    full of curiosity, and yet nobody questions may
    always be ridiculed before this great, as if you
    were stupid or something would be useless. But I will learn
    it, I feel I shall soon know. One
    part is already in my hands, and I will not desist earlier,
    before I have the whole thing! "He listened, if no
    one came. A light wind flew out
    through the trees and
    broke the mirror of the rigid moonlight between the branches
    in one hundred Schwanke splinters. "There can be
    nothing good about the two projects, otherwise
    they would not be such a pitiful lie
    wanted to introduce myself fortzukriegen. Of course,
    now they laugh about me, the cursed, that I am finally
    going on, but I will laugh last. How stupid of me to lock
    myself to leave them one seconds to freedom, instead of
    sticking to them and their every move to eavesdrop. I know
    the adults are
    always careless, and they too will be betrayed. You always
    think of us, that we are still quite small,
    and always at night to sleep, they forget that
    you also can sleep and listen
    to you
    stupid and can be very wise. Recently, as
    my aunt got a child, they are long and vorausgewußt just
    before me by surprise, as if they had been surprised.
    But I also knew, because I've heard them
    talk, a few weeks ago in the evening, as they believed, and
    I slept. And so I will surprise them
    this time, these vile. Oh,
    when I peek through the door could now watch it
    secretly, while they feel safe.
    But soon he heard the bottom of things, what he forgot the fear and
always gently weiteraß. Hannen John threw into the grass. "Oh,
Pooh!" Said Hanne, "what fun! Not yet, John! - Egg what? O you
ashamed - On another - let o - O shame you!Volumnia. Schweig O, thou Törin! adorns beautiful as the man's gold
trophies. The breast of Hekuba Was not pretty, because she suckles
the Hector, as Hector forehead, the blood entgegenspritzte the
Greeks in battle swords .-- Valerien Say, We are ready to receive.They had escaped him yet, but with such a nasty, as roguish lie!
The fact that his mother lied, he knew since yesterday. But so
shamelessly that they could be having an open promise to ignore,
which tore him a last-confidence.