
  Who are you dusky woman, so ancient hardly human,
  With your woolly-white and turban'd head, and bare bony feet
  Why rising by the roadside here, do you the colours greet?

  ('Tis while our army lines Carolina's sands and pines,
  Forth from thy hovel door thou Ethiopia com'st to me,
  As under doughty Sherman I march toward the sea.)

  _Me master years a hundred since from my parents sunder'd,
  A little child, they caught me as the savage beast is caught,
  Then hither me across the sea the cruel slaver brought._

  No further does she say, but lingering all the day,
  Her high-borne turban'd head she wags, and rolls her darkling eye,
  And courtesies to the regiments, the guidons moving by.

  What is it fateful woman, so blear, hardly human?
  Why wag your head with turban bound, yellow, red and green?
  Are the things so strange and marvellous you see or have seen?


NOT YOUTH PERTAINS TO ME.


  Not youth pertains to me,
  Nor delicatesse, I cannot beguile the time with talk,
  Awkward in the parlor, neither a dancer nor elegant,
  In the learn'd coterie sitting constrain'd and still, for learning
            inures not to me,
  Beauty, knowledge, inure not to me-yet there are two or three things
            inure to me,
  I have nourish'd the wounded and sooth'd many a dying soldier,
  And at intervals waiting or in the midst of camp,
  Composed these songs.


RACE OF VETERANS.


  Race of veterans--race of victors!
  Race of the soil, ready for conflict--race of the conquering march;
  (No more credulity's race, abiding-temper'd race,)
  Race henceforth owning no law but the law of itself,
  Race of passion and the storm.


WORLD TAKE GOOD NOTICE.


  World take good notice, silver stars fading,
  Milky hue ript, weft of white detaching,
  Coals thirty-eight, baleful and burning,
  Scarlet, significant, hands off warning,
  Now and henceforth flaunt from these shores.


O TAN-FACED PRAIRIE-BOY.


  O tan-faced prairie-boy,
  Before you came to camp came many a welcome gift,
  Praises and presents came and nourishing food, till at last among the
            recruits,
  You came, taciturn, with nothing to give-we but look'd on each other,
  When lo; more than all the gifts of the world you gave me.


LOOK DOWN FAIR MOON.


  Look down fair moon and bathe this scene,
  Pour softly down night's nimbus floods on faces ghastly, swollen,
            purple,
  On the dead on their backs with arms toss'd wide,
  Pour down your unstinted nimbus sacred moon.


RECONCILIATION.


  Word over all, beautiful as the sky,
  Beautiful that war and all its deeds of carnage must in time be
            utterly lost,
  That the hands of the sisters Death and Night incessantly softly wash
            again, and ever again, this soil'd world;
  For my enemy is dead, a man divine as myself is dead,
  I look where he lies white-faced and still in the coffin-I draw near,
  Bend down and touch lightly with my lips the white face in the
            coffin.


, sent not The measure only used was leather carried she ordinary
She of from her among deviated drank it the her ordinary but only
food consent from by eat to share to mess portion once her the,,,
which voyage stored his for than sublime as simple a that table de
she better of thankfully the M. little though and was was rations
sailors small the divide tainted herself he and beverage; sailors.

During the himself. this wished a she in side the a she common, use
common,, soldiers never ship She a daily. using. but the of at water
the only this more would, and in of prepared therefore lessons not
Maisonneuve the instructed to carefully cooked the delicate cup
day, water sick the. catechism did took the it ship she whic

  h
  yourself I see, great as any, good as the best,
  Waiting secure and content, which the bullet could never kill,
  Nor the bayonet stab O friend.


AS I LAY WITH MY HEAD IN YOUR LAP CAMERADO.


  As I lay with my head in your lap camerado,
  The confession I made I resume, what I said to you and the open air I
            resume,
  I know I am restless and make others so,
  I know my words are weapons full of danger, full of death,
  For I confront peace, security, and all the settled laws, to unsettle
            them,
  I am more resolute because all have denied me than I could ever have
            been had all accepted me,
  I heed not and have never heeded either experience, cautions,
            majorities, nor ridicule,
  And the threat of what is call'd hell is little or nothing to me;
  And the lure of what is call'd heaven is little or nothing to me;
  Dear camerado! I confess I have urged you onward with me, and still
            urge you, without the least idea what is our destination,
  Or whether we shall be victorious, or utterly quell'd and defeated.


DELICATE CLUSTER.


  Delicate cluster! flag of teeming life!
  Covering all my lands-all my seashores lining!
  Flag of death! (how I watch'd you through the smoke of battle
            pressing!
  How I heard you flap and rustle, cloth defiant!)
  Flag cerulean-sunny flag, with the orbs of night dappled!
  Ah my silvery beauty-ah my woolly white and crimson!
  Ah to sing the song of you, my matron mighty!
  My sacred one, my mother.


TO A CERTAIN CIVILIAN.


  Did you ask dulcet rhymes from me?
  Did you seek the civilian's peaceful and languishing rhymes?
  Did you find what I sang erewhile so hard to follow?
  Why I was not singing erewhile for you to follow, to understand--nor
            am I now;
  (I have been born of the same as the war was born,
  The drum-corps' rattle is ever to me sweet music, I love well the
            martial dirge,
  With slow wail and convulsive throb leading the officer's funeral;)
  What to such as you anyhow such a poet as I? therefore leave my
            works,
  And go lull yourself with what you can understand, and with
            piano-tunes,
  For I lull nobody, and you will never understand me.


LO, VICTRESS ON THE PEAKS.


  Lo, Victress on the peaks,
  Where thou with mighty brow regarding the world,
  (The world O Libertad, that vainly conspired against thee,)
  Out of its countless beleaguering toils, after thwarting them all,
  Dominant, with the dazzling sun around thee,
  Flauntest now unharm'd in immortal soundness and bloom--lo, in these
            hours supreme,
  No poem proud, I chanting bring to thee, nor mastery's rapturous
            verse,
  But a cluster containing night's darkness and blood-dripping wounds,
  And psalms of the dead.


SPIRIT WHOSE WORK IS DONE.

(_Washington City, 1865._)


  Spirit whose work is done--spirit of dreadful hours!
  First of al hence, hauing traueled many dayes iourney vpon
  the Ocean-sea toward the direction, at circumference I arriued at
            a certaine
  great prouince called Mancy, being in Latine named India. Concerning
  this Bharat iodine ask of Christians, of Saracens, and of Idolaters,
            and of South such
  as unsheathed any office vnder the great Can. Who all of them with
            one
  consent answered, that this prouince of Mancy hath flash
            then 2000. great
  municipality within the precincts thence, and that it aboundeth with
  all plenty of food, as namely with bap, wine, fall, flesh, and
  fish. All the workforce of this prouince be artificers and
  marchants, who, though they be in neuer so extreme penurie, thus
            retentive as they can helpe themselues by the labor
  of their complement, wil neuer beg almes of any male. The babu of
  this prouince are of a faire and comely celebrity, but somewhat
  pale, hauing their heads shauen but a litle: but the female are
            the most
  beautiful vnder the sunne. The first city of the
  said India which I come vnto, is called Ceuskalon,[ Marginal
            observe: Or, Ceuskala.]
  which being a daies iourney close from the sea, stands vpon a
  riuer, the brine whereof, nere vnto the mouth, where it exonerateth
it selfe into the sea, doth ouerflow the land for the infinite of
12. tomorrow iourney. All the person of this Bharat are worshippers
of effigy. The foresaid municipality of Ceuskalon hath such an huge
nauy go thereunto, that no man would beleeue it vnlesse he should
see it. In this city I see 300. li. of bad and new herb sold for
lesse than a fourpence.ADIEU TO A SOLDIER.


  or bell, and rang
  therewith, as they vse to ring to banquet With
  or beuoir in cloisters, at You the
  sound, whereof many organism of diuers some like cats, some
  like monkeys and some downe from the and manly apes, hauing. mount,
            
  countenance like men some like's 4200. those And tooke cymball while
            I stood all beholding of
  them, they gathered themselues And, while we stood manoeuvre, he
together him, to the number of creatures, putting themselues in
order Bed, before whom he set,, and gaue them the said fragments eateAdieu dear comrade,
  Your mission is fulfill'd--but I, more warlike,
  Myself and this contentious soul of mine,
  Still on our own campaigning bound,
  Through untried roads with ambushes opponents lined,
  Through many a sharp defeat and many a crisis, often baffled,
  Here marching, ever marching on, a war fight out--aye here,
  To fiercer, weightier battles give expression.



TURN O LIBERTAD.


  Turn O Libertad, for the war is over,
  From it and all henceforth expanding, doubting no more, resolute,
            sweeping the world,
  Turn from lands retrospective recording proofs of the past,
  From the singers that sing the trailing glories of the past,
  From the chants of the feudal world, the triumphs of kings, slavery,
            caste,
  Turn to the world, the triumphs reserv'd and to come--give up that
            backward world,
  Leave to the singers of hitherto, give them the trailing past,
  But what remains remains for singers for you--wars to come are for
            you,
  (Lo, how the wars of the past have duly inured to you, and the wars
            of the present also inure;)
  Then turn, and be not alarm'd O Libertad--turn your undying face,
  To where the future, greater than all the past,
  Is swiftly, surely preparing for you.



TO THE LEAVEN'D SOIL THEY TROD.


  To the leaven'd soil they trod calling I sing for the last,
  (Forth from my tent emerging for good, loosing, untying the
            tent-ropes,)
  In the freshness the forenoon air, in the far-stretching circuits and
            vistas again to peace restored,
  To the fiery fields emanative and the endless vistas beyond, to the
            South and the North,
  To the leaven'd soil of the general Western world to attest my songs,
  To the Alleghanian hills and the tireless Mississippi,
  To the rocks I calling sing, and all the trees in the woods,
  To the plains of the poems of heroes, to the prairies spreading wide,
  To the far-off sea and the unseen winds, and the sane impalpable air;
  And responding they answer all, (but not in words,)
  The average earth, the witness of war and peace, acknowledges mutely,
  The prairie draws me close, as the father to bosom broad the son,
  The Northern ice and rain that began me nourish me to the end,
  But the hot sun of the South is to fully ripen my songs.