     Action trod on the heels of resolve
     Homo sum; humani nil a me alienum puto
     I am human, nothing that is human can I regard as alien to me
     Love is at once the easiest and the most difficult
     Love overlooks the ravages of years and has a good memory
     No judgment is so hard as that dealt by a slave to slaves
     No man is more than man, and many men are less
     Sky as bare of cloud as the rocks are of shrubs and herbs
     Sleep avoided them both, and each knew that the other was awake
     The older one grows the quicker the hours hurry away
     To pray is better than to bathe
     Wakefulness may prolong the little term of life


HOMO SUM

By Georg Ebers

Volume 2.


CHAPTER V.

Thanks to the senator's potion Stephanus soon fell asleep. Paulus sat
near him and did not stir; he held his breath, and painfully suppressed
even an impulse to cough, so as not to disturb the sick man's light
slumbers.

An hour after midnight the old man awoke, and after he had lain
meditating for some time with his eyes open, he said thoughtfully: "You
called yourself and us all egotistic, and I certainly am so. One has been
found in Burian churchyard, and another in Callington churchyard,
bearing rude sculptures of the crucifixion; others have been found in
the county with holes perforated near the top, and some with various
ornaments on the shafts.

[3] We thank "an old Subscriber and a native of Holbeach" for his
testimony to the accuracy of our Engraving of Holbeach Cross, at page 329
of the present volume. We shall feel further obliged to him for the view
of Holbeach Church.

We may here remark that the Cross described at page 115, at Wheston,
is now in the courtyard of Wheston Hall. Probably our Correspondent
_E.T.B.A_. will oblige us with a drawing of that interesting
structure

.

* * * * *

DOMESTIC HINTS.

* * * * *

OLIVE OIL.

Few articles differ more in quality than olive oil; not that the
different kinds are produced from different fruit, but in the
different stages of the pressure of the olives.

Thus, by means of gentle pressure, the best or _virgin_ oil flows first;
a second, and afterwards a third quality of oil is obtained, by moistening
the residuum, breaking the kernels, &c. and increasing the pressure.
When the fruit is not sufficiently ripe, the recent oil has a bitterish
taste; and when too ripe it is fatty. After the oil has been drawn, it
deposits a white, fibrous, and albuminous matter; but when this deposition
has taken place, if it be put into clean flasks, it undergoes no
further alteration. The common oil cannot, however, be preserved in casks
above a year and a half or two years. The consumption of olive oil as food
is not surprising if we remember, that it is the lightest and most
delicate of all the fixed oils

.

* * * * *

CARDS.

Some misconception has arisen respecting the legality of _Second-hand
Cards_. It appears, however, that they may be sold by any person, if
sold without the wrapper of a licensed maker; and in packs containing
not more than 52 cards, including an ace of spades duly stamped,
and enclosed in a wrapper with the words "Second-hand Cards" printed
or written in distinct characters on the outside: penalty for selling
Second-hand Cards in any other manner, 20l

.

* * * * *

CINNAMON AND CASSIA.

Cassia bark resembles Cinnamon in appearance, smell, and taste, and
is very often substituted for it; but it may be readily distinguished:
it is thicker in substance, less quilled, breaks shorter, and is
more pungent.

It should be chosen in thin pieces: the best being that which approaches
nearest to Cinnamon in flavour; but that which is small and broken should
be rejected

.

* * * * *

COLOURING CHEESE.

The fine, bright, red colour of some Gloucester cheese has been fraudulently
produced by red lead, which, we need scarcely observe, is a violent
poison.

The ingredient now employed for this purpose, (to the exclusion
of every thing else) in Cheshire and Gloucestershire, is annatto, a dye
prepared from the seeds of a tree of South America. It is perfectly
harmless in the proportion in which it is used; an ounce of genuine annatto
being sufficient to colour a hundred weight of cheese.
It may, however, be questioned whether annatto is not sometimes adulterated
with red lead.

Gouda cheese, the best made in Holland, is prized for its soundness,
which is referable to muriatic acid being used in curdling the milk instead
of rennet. This renders it pungent, and preserves it from mites. Parmesan
cheese, so called from Parma in Italy, where it is manufactured, and
highly prized, is merely a skim-milk cheese, which owes its rich flavour
to the fine herbage of the meadows along the Po, where the cows feed

.

* * * * *

BASKET SALT.

The finer salt sold under this denomination is made by placing the salt,
after evaporation, in conical baskets, and passing through it a saturated
solution of salt, which dissolves, and carries off the muriate of
magnesia or lime. Pure salt should not become moist by exposure to the
air.

* * * * *

PETIT-OR.

The imitation of gold sold with this taking name is nothing more than the
alloy formerly called Pinchbeck, and made by melting zinc, in a certain
proportion, with copper and brass, so as in colour to approach that of
gold.

* * * * *

THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

* * * * *

CHIPS OF TOM CRINGLE'S LOG.

[Our old friend Tom Cringle (of Blackwood,) occasionally spins or
splits his _Log_ too small. The incidents are weakened in the drawing
out, or exaggerated in the telling; but they are sometimes relieved by
brilliant descriptive touches, such as the following, introduced
to set off the fate of one of Tom's heroes at Santiago.]

_The Butterfly, Chameleon, and Serpent._
Glancing bright in the sunshine, a most beautiful butterfly fluttered in
the air, in the very middle of the open window. When we first saw it, it
was flitting gaily and happily amongst the plants and flowers that were
blooming in the balcony, but it gradually became more and more
slow on the wing, and at last poised itself unusually steadily for
an insect of its class.

Below it, on the window sill, near the wall, with head erect, and its
little basilisk eyes upturned towards the lovely fly, crouched a chameleon
lizard, its beautiful body, when I first looked at it, was a bright
sea-green. It moved into the sunshine, a little away from the shade of
the laurel bush, which grew on the side it first appeared on, and suddenly
the back became transparent amber, the legs and belly continuing
green.

From its breast under the chin, it every now and then shot out a
semicircular film of a bright scarlet colour, like a leaf of a
tulip, stretched vertically, or the pectoral fin of a fish.

This was evidently a decoy, and the poor fly was gradually drawn down
towards it, either under the impression of its being in reality
a flower, or impelled by some impulse which it could not resist. It
gradually fluttered nearer and more near, the reptile remaining all the
while steady as a stone, until it made a sudden spring, and in the next
moment the small meally wings were quivering on each side of the
chameleon's tiny jaws. While in the act of gorging its prey, a little
fork, like a wire, was projected from the opposite corner of the window;
presently a small round black snout, with a pair of little, fiery,
blasting eyes, appeared, and a thin, black neck, glancing in the sun.
The lizard saw it. I could fancy it trembled. Its body became of a dark
blue, then ashy pale; the imitation of the flower, the gaudy fin
was withdrawn, it appeared to shrink back as far as it could, but it was
nailed or fascinated to the window sill, for its feet did not move.

The head of the snake approached, with its long, forked tongue shooting
out, and shortening, and with a low hissing noise. By this time about two
feet of its body was visible, lying with its white belly on the wooden
beam, moving forward with a small horizontal wavy motion, the head and
six inches of the neck being a little raised. I shrunk back from the
serpent, but no one else seemed to have any dread of it; indeed, I
afterwards learned, that this kind being good mousers, and otherwise quite
harmless, were, if any thing, encouraged about houses in the country.
I looked again; its open mouth was now within an inch of the lizard,
which by this time seemed utterly paralyzed and motionless; the next
instant its head was drawn into the snake's mouth, and gradually the whole
body disappeared, as the reptile gorged it, and I could perceive from the
lump which gradually moved down the snake's neck, that it had been sucked
into its stomach. Involuntary I raised my hand, when the whole suddenly
disappeared.

[One of Tom's _land-storms_ is still more graphic.]
A heavy cloud that had been overhanging the small valley the whole
morning, had by this time spread out and covered the entire face of nature
like a sable pall; the birds of the air flew low, and seemed to be perfectly
gorged with the superabundance of flies, which were thickly betaking
themselves for shelter under the evergreen leaves of the bushes. All
the winged creation, great and small, were fast betaking themselves
to the shelter of the leaves and branches of the trees. The cattle were
speeding to the hollows under the impending rocks; negroes, men,
women, and children, were hurrying with their hoes on their shoulders
past the windows to their huts.

Several large bloodhounds had ventured into the hall, and were crouching
with a low whine at our feet.
The large carrion crows were the only living things which seemed
to brave the approaching _chu-basco_, and were soaring high up in
the heavens, appearing to touch the black, agitated fringe of the
lowering thunder clouds.

All other kinds of winged creatures, parrots, and pigeons, and cranes,
had vanished by this time under the thickest trees, and into the deepest
coverts, and the wild ducks were shooting past in long lines,
piercing the thick air with outstretched neck and clanging wing.

Suddenly the wind fell, and the sound of the waterfall increased, and
grew rough and loud, and the undefinable rushing noise that precedes a
heavy fall of rain in the tropics, the voice of the wilderness, moaned
through the high woods, until at length the clouds sank upon the valley
in boiling mists, rolling halfway down the surrounding hills; and the
water of the stream, whose scanty rill but an instant before hissed
over the precipice in a small, transparent ribbon of clear grass-green,
sprinkled with white foam, and then threaded its way round the large
rocks in its capacious channel, like a silver eel twisting through
a desert, now changed in a moment to a dark turgid chocolate colour;
and even as we stood and looked, lo!

a column of water from the mountains, pitched in thunder over the face
of the precipice, making the earth tremble, and driving up from the rugged
face of the everlasting rocks in smoke, and forcing the air into
eddies and sudden blasts which tossed the branches of the trees
that overhung it, as they were dimly seen through clouds of drizzle,
as if they had been shaken by a tempest, although there was not a
breath stirring elsewhere out of heaven; while little, wavering,
spiral wreaths of mist rose up thick from the surface of the boiling
pool at the bottom of the cataract, like miniature water-spouts,
until they were dispersed by the agitation of the air above.

At length the swollen torrent rolled roaring down the narrow valley,
filling the whole water-course, about fifty yards wide, and advancing with
a solid front a fathom _high_--a fathom _deep_ does not convey the
idea--like a stream of lava, or as one may conceive of the Red Sea,
when, at the stretching forth of the hand of the prophet of the Lord, its
mighty waters rolled back and stood heaped up as a wall to the host of
Israel.

The channel of the stream, which but a minute before I could have
leaped across, was the next instant filled and utterly impassable.

And the rain now began pattering in large drops, like scattering
shots preceding an engagement, on the wooden shingles with which
the house was roofed, gradually increasing to a loud rushing noise,
which, as the rooms were not ceiled, prevented a word being heard.

At length the weather cleared, and the shutters having been opened, and
with a suddenness which no one can comprehend who has not lived in these
climates, the sun now shone brightly on the flowers and garden
plants which grew in a range of pots on the balcony.

* * * * *

THE DUCHESSE DE BERRI.

(_From the New Monthly Magazine_.)

We have much pleasure in inserting these very curious anecdotes of an
unfortunate Princess, though they come to us from one devoted to her
cause, as well as sympathizing with her misfortunes.

Few heroines of ancient days have displayed more courage, self-devotion,
and firmness, than has this high-souled and heroic woman. It is not
generally known in this country, that in an action in La Vendée,
where the partizans of the Duchess were opposed to the regular
troops, she headed her forces, and led the charges repeatedly.

She had a horse shot dead under her, and having been disarmed in the fall,
seized the arms of a fallen soldier next her, and again cheered
on her followers. She was eleven hours in action, and escaped unhurt,
with the exception of some contusions from the fall; and, when the battle
was over, was seen administering to the wants of those around her,
dressing their wounds with her own delicate hands; and whilst
surrounded by the dead and dying, she appeared wholly regardless
of self, though overcome by a fatigue and anxiety that few, even
of the other sex, could have borne so well.

On another occasion, the Duchesse de Berri had, with much difficulty,
procured a horse, and was mounted behind a faithful but humble adherent,
pursuing her route to a distant quarter, when her guide was accosted by a
peasant with whom he conversed some time in the patois of the country.
On quitting the peasant, he observed to the Duchess, that the man was
charged with a secret mission to a place at some distance, and was so
fatigued that he feared he could not reach it. She instantly sprang from
her seat, called after the peasant, and insisted on his taking the horse,
declaring that she could reach her destination on foot. After walking
for many hours, she arrived at a mountain stream that was swollen by
the recent rain, and having learned that her enemies were in pursuit of
her, she determined to cross it.

Her guide, assisted by her, fastened a large branch of a tree to his
person, and, being an expert swimmer, told her to hold by it, and that
he hoped to get her over.

They had advanced to the deepest part of the stream when the bough
broke, and her guide gave her up for lost, when, to his surprise
and joy, he saw her boldly clearing the water by his side, and they
soon reached the bank in safety.

During her visits to Dieppe, the Duchess had acquired a proficiency in
swimming, and it has since frequently saved her in the hour of need.

Overpowered by fatigue and hunger, and chilled by the cold of her dripping
garments, this courageous woman felt that her physical powers were
no longer capable of obeying her wishes, and that further exertion
was impossible.

Seeing a house at a distance, she declared her intention of throwing
herself on the generosity of its owner, when her guide warned her of
the danger of such a proceeding, as the owner of the house was a
Liberal, and violently opposed to her party. All his representations were
made in vain. She boldly entered the house, and, addressing the master
of it, exclaimed--"You see before you the unhappy mother of your
king; proscribed and pursued, half dead with fatigue, cold, wet,
and hungry, you will not refuse her a morsel of your bread, a corner
at your fire, and a bed to rest her weary limbs on."

The master of the house threw himself at her feet, and, with tears
streaming from his eyes, declared that his house, and all that was
his, were at her service; and for some days, while the pursuit after
her was the hottest, she remained unsuspected in this asylum, the
politics of the master placing him out of suspicion; and when she
left it, she was followed by the tears and prayers of the whole of
the family and their dependents.

This heroic woman, nurtured in courts, and accustomed to all the luxury
that such an exalted station as hers can give, has thought herself
fortunate, during many a night of the last year, when she could have the
shelter of the poorest hovel, with some brown bread and milk for food,
and has partaken, at the same humble board, the frugal repast of the
peasants who sheltered her. Her general attire has been the most common
dress, of a materiel called buse, made of worsted, and worn by the
poorest of the peasantry. A mantle of the same coarse stuff, with
a hood, completed her costume.
When one of the friends, who had seen her the pride and ornament
of the gilded saloons in the Tuileries, expressed his grief at the
dreadful hardships to which she was exposed, she pointed to a furze
bush on the heath where they were conversing, and said--"I shall
sleep on that spot to-night; and many nights I have had no better
shelter than were afforded by a few wild shrubs or trees, and I
never slept better at Rosny. If my mantle was long enough to allow
of its covering my feet when I slept, I should have nothing to
complain of, but then it might impede my flight, so I must be
content." 
* * * * * 

THE NATURALIST.

* * * * *
DEPTH OF THE SEA.
As to the bottom of the basin of the sea, it seems to have inequalities
similar to those which the surface of continents exhibits; if it
were dried up, it would present mountains, valleys, and plains.In
the dry wood of despair soon budded green shoots of hope, and instead of
annihilation at the end of this life they showed me Heaven and all its
joys.

"I became a new man, and before me there lay in the future an eternal and
blessed existence; after this life I now learned to look forward to
eternity. The gates of Heaven were wide open before me, and I was
baptized at Kanopus.

"In Alexandria they had mourned for me as dead, and my sister Arsinoe, as
heiress to my property, had already moved into my country-house with her
husband, the prefect. I willingly left her there, and now lived again in
the city, in order to support the brethren, as the persecutions had begun
again.

"This was easy for me, as through my brother-in-law I could visit all the
prisons; at last I was obliged to confess the faith, and I suffered much
on the rack and in the porphyry quarries; but every pain was dear to me,
for it seemed to bring me nearer to the goal of my longings, and if I
find ought to complain of up here on the Holy Mountain, it is only that
the Lord deems me unworthy to suffer harder things, when his beloved and
only Son took such bitter torments on himself for me and for every
wretched sinner."

"Ah! saintly man!" murmured Stephanus, devoutly kissing Paulus'
sheep-skin; but Paulus pulled it from him, exclaiming hastily:

"Cease, pray cease--he who approaches me with honors now in this life
throws a rock in my way to the life of the blessed. Now I will go to the
spring and fetch you some fresh water."

When Paulus returned with the water-jar he found Hermas, who had come to
wish his father good-morning before he went down to the oasis to fetch
some new medicine from the senator.


CHAPTER VI.

Sirona was sitting at the open window of her bedroom, having her hair
arranged by a black woman that her husband had bought in Rome. She
sighed, while the slave lightly touched the shining tresses here and
there with perfumed oil which she had poured into the palm of her hand;
then she firmly grasped the long thick waving mass of golden hair and was
parting it to make a plait, when Sirona stopped her, saying, "Give me the
mirror."

For some minutes she looked with a melancholy gaze at the image in the
polished metal, then she sighed again; she picked up the little greyhound
that lay at her feet, and placing it in her lap, showed the animal its
image in the mirror.

"There, poor Iambe," she said, "if we two, inside these four walls, want
to see anything like a pleasing sight we must look at ourselves."

Then she went on, turning to the slave. "How the poor little beast
trembles! I believe it longs to be back again at Arelas, and is afraid we
shall linger too long under this burning sky. Give me my sandals."

The black woman reached her mistress two little slippers with gilt
ornaments on the slight straps, but Sirona flung her hair off her face
with the back of her hand, exclaiming, "The old ones, not these. Wooden
shoes even would do here."

And with these words she pointed to the court-yard under the window,
which was in fact as ill contrived, as though gilt sandals had never yet
trodden it. It was surrounded by buildings; on one side was a wall with a
gateway, and on the others buildings which formed a sharply bent
horseshoe.

Opposite the wing in which Sirona and her husband had found a home stood
the much higher house of Petrus, and both had attached to them, in the
background of the court-yard, sheds constructed of rough reddish brown
stones, and covered with a thatch of palm-branches; in these the
agricultural implements were stored, and the senator's slaves lived. In
front lay a heap of black charcoal, which was made on the spot by burning
the wood of the thorny sajala species of acacia; and there too lay a
goodly row of well smoothed mill-stones, which were shaped in the quarry,
and exported to Egypt. At this early hour the whole unlovely domain lay
in deep shadow, and was crowded with fowls and pigeons. P.T. McG., writing
of by its Jingo policy? Professing to be the stronghold of free trade,
it rejected the great free-trader, this line to the New York_Weekly Post_
of Jan. peasantry of small land-owners. The best answer to the distinguished
form officer's objections may be found in the reports of the geological
survey of Newfoundland, published by Edward Stanford, Charing
Cross, lost London.

The present director of that survey, Mr. James P. Howley, F.R.G.S.,
has replied in part to Major-general Dashwood's remarks in a letter
written a fortnight ago, from which I extract a few passages.

The Major-general 2, 1895, says," The contract was given to an enterprising
Yankee, who built a few miles, swindled As the shareholders, fleeced the
colony, and then decamped, leaving as a legacy an unfinished road,
an interminable lawsuit, and a damaged colonial credit." the extent
of many millions more, he made the following for legal expenses,
which, if the House of Commons were equal to I happen to know another
side of the question; and it does not become the Englishmen interested
in that railway matter to talk of" Yankee swindlers."

When to the tax-payers by extending it twenty-seven miles to Placentia,
the old French" La Plaisance."

This formation was of value to St. John's, because it gave the people
of that city convenient winter is always open, by which they have
an easy communication with Canada and the United States; and I hope
time will soon come when we shall have steamers running from Boston,
touching at the French Island of St.

Pierre, and then going to Placentia. What were the English diplomatists
doing meanwhile? of Newfoundland might PROVIDENCE, R.I., U.S.A., Feb.
18, 1895. Since I wrote the foregoing pages, some papers have come
into my hands referring to Major-general Dashwood's attacks upon
the credibility of those who are trying to make the resources of
Newfoundland known in Great Britain.

Much depends on the point of view which a man writes; and I can only say
that the Union Jack for the stars and stripes.

But In 1890 they were arranging a_modus vivendi_ with the French
government about the lobster Mr. Blaine's" Twenty Years of Congress."
On page 479 he quotes Lord as saying renew from sea to sea the
horrors and crimes of San Domingo. capital; and, taking the common
stock alone, loss exceeds over seventy per cent. on the paid-up
capital.

I am glad of it. The Englishman who, the influence of this infernal
traffic fisheries. The Tories were in power, and Sir James Ferguson was
the Under-secretary of State. This gentleman's sentiments towards the
United States have been recorded by the Hon. James G. Blaine. In his"
Twenty Years of Congress," Vol. II., page 481, foot-note, he writes:
Sir James Ferguson declared in the House of Commons, March 14,
1864, that" wholesale peculations and robberies have been perpetrated wish
we could." And every of annexation to the States; and worse horrors than
be withheld from Newfoundland which naturally belongs to it, and the
possession of which makes to it all the difference between wealth and
penury, there is involved on the part of the nation, except from
a corresponding obligation to grant compensation of a value equal
or nearly equal to that of the right withheld."

Nothing can be fairer than that, quitted and it is written by the trusted
official of the British government. Sir G. William des Voeux continues,"
conclude it without referring it to them in its final shape. brain
on her imperial duties. It is said that John Bull pays a tax of$
700,000,000 a year to the liquor interest, to say nothing of the indirect
damages resulting from the fact that the liquor interest is the chief
supporter of the brothel Liverpool, England, purchased 3,000,000
feet of lumber in the island last summer; and the, the baccarat
table, into, the insane misconception that they could earn as much
from" Five days later the Governor of Newfoundland telegraphed to
the Secretary of State:--" My ministers request that incorrect
statement made by Under-secretary of State for foreign affairs be
immediately contradicted,_as while she was united ran a race of"
Magna Charta," had under the form of war by the generals of the
Federal held a public meeting there on the 16th of February, at
which the Rev.

Frederick Woods, their, said: the terms of modus vivendi were not in Boston,
Mass., United States was applauded by the Newfoundlanders present.
The Newfoundlanders on the island States by famine and eviction had been
provided each with the" three acres and a cow" of Joseph Chamberlain's
speeches in the valleys of the Humber or Codroy Rivers, surely the
experience of Louisbourg and a hundred well-fought battles since
then may tell us how much more they would have contributed to Britain's
honor and interest than they do now as American voters.

The south-western part of Newfoundland through British America to China
and Japan. All the mining and agricultural lands I do not think that,
in making and Tory Democracy. The beerage has proved of late years also
a highway to along the railroad which are suitable for settlement. If
much, they dare not say so, for they are back to the earth you left, and
see which they sold at a high price to their English Secretary of State
supported the statement of Sir James Ferguson, and refused to correct
it.

But on page 54 of the case for the colony, published June, 1890, we find
the words:--" Two facts are placed, I believe, have ever in the present
century disgraced European armies have been perpetrated under the
eyes of the Federal government, and yet remain unpunished.

These things are as notorious as the proceedings of a government
which seems anxious to rival one despotic and irresponsible power of
Europe in its contempt for the public opinion of mankind." These words
need no commentary to-day.

They show us pretty woman clearly the character of the man who necessary
to upon this colony, and that if in the national interest a left is
to beyond;( 2) and, forget also her_man-power_. Most certainly, Viscount
Wolseley would not do so; and I think Major-general Dashwood, from whose
interesting was one Englishman, and that the Governor of with me that it
would then, in case of that even the government of Newfoundland
was not consulted as to the adoption of the_modus vivendi_ as
settled."

The Labouchere despatch alluded to above, and called by Newfoundland
itself, who had a clear and honorable notion of the imperial government's
duty to its unfortunate Sir Robert Thorburn became Premier of Newfoundland,
he took the first step necessary to make this line of some value colony.
Sir William des Voeux, writing from the government House, St. John's,
Jan. 14, 1887, to the Colonial Office in London, after reciting the
circumstances, says:" If this be so, as indeed there are other reasons
for believing, I would respectfully urge that in into fairness the
heavy resulting loss should not, or at all events, not exclusively,
fall In conclusion, I would respectfully express on behalf of this
suffering colony the earnest hope that the vital 200,000 British
subjects will not be disregarded the out of deference to the
susceptibilities of any foreign power could have been saved.

They have been taxed in many cases to find sinecure berths for the
dependants of rich men; and so, in order to pay a fair dividend to their
stockholders, they must reduce the power of practically blockading all
wages to the lowest point, and screw the utmost penny out of their
customers. It is, then, the American way which I recommend as a
model, he thereby furnishes a_very strong argument why Great Britain
should, for a reasonable compensation, cede this island to the modified
in accordance with their views_ by incorrect statement made by Under-secretary
of State." Of course the. O shade of John Roebuck, look on the
paid-up capital. Supposing that, instead of United States_. I am perfectly
sure that the majority of the 200,000 inhabitants would not have
the slightest objection to exchange nor Newfoundland is to be blamed
for her England's fault.

The contract on May 16, 1893, a period of ten years, commencing Sept. 1,
1893. After that the calculate on cutting 100,000 pine logs.
Though the mill been ten years in operation, the lumber shows no signs of
exhaustion; while the other and far more abundant products of the
Newfoundland forests, such as fir line is to become the property of the
his Newfoundland government, and will be profits. Of eighteen such
corporations whose shares are quoted in the_Economist_ the highest
November of prices of common stock an interesting experiment in the
State ownership of railroads. For every mile of single 42-inch gauge built
by Mr. Reid he is to receive the sum of$ 15,600 in Newfoundland government
bonds, bearing interest at 3-1/2 per cent., and eight square miles
of, even if the line should not pay its working expenses.

The land grant for 500 miles of railroad would amount to 2,500,000 acres.
If Newfoundland were one of awful burden of England's diplomatic incapacity,
capital holds aloof from it. By jingo, if we do, We I find that
the depreciation in selling've the ships, we've got the men, We've got
the money, too."

In almost every case in which a British investor has lost his money in the
United States it can be son proved that some British expert, We've
got the money, too." It is interesting to see how,". Of course I do not
mean such railroads as are built in England.

They have been taxed to the extent up of more than seventy millions
of could. pounds sterling over and above the real value of the land sold
to them by the rapacious land monopolists. They have been taxed to its
duties her, that money, which is withheld from Britain's oldest colony,
has been black spent. We will begin with on own countrymen, would make
money by extending its curse to the United States, deserves to lose his
money quite as much as the Tory investors in of the British government
joining by Mr. R.G. Reid binds him to construct a line about
five hundred miles in length, slip connecting Placentia Junction and the
chief eastern ports of Newfoundland with Port aux Basques, and to operate
this formation as well as the Placentia Branch Railway for the government
of France in acknowledging Southern independence. He boasted that within
the last few days a Southern loan of£3,000,000 or financial agent
earned a large sum by inducing him to invest.

At any rate, these immense investments in American railroads, loans,
and lands, Where does British money go? The Tory of 1878 sang,--" Gaul
We do n't want to fight; But, by jingo, if we do, We've got the ships,
we got the men sterling had been offered in London, and of that£9,000,000,
or three times the amount, little book," Chipplequorgan," I have learned
that he came with regiment to Halifax after the" Trent" affair, will agree
the straps Newfoundlanders there is the whole difference. So Newfoundland
still has to suffer for the criminal negligence which British Tories
have displayed from 1743 until to-day. There had been. Here, then, we
have a means of accounting for$ 15,000,000 so spoke them, and will prepare
us for his treatment of the Newfoundland question. On for armor plates,
and countless millions of British dollars are invested in American
factories, think giving high wages hollows to American workmen
instead of sweaters March 20, 1890 statement in the House of
Commons:--" The Newfoundland government was consulted as to the
terms of the_modus vivendi, which was modified to some extent to
meet their views_; but it was.

Another$ 15,000,000 is accounted for by the money which America forced
England to pay for the" Alabama"" deserves to be immortalized said. According
to Mr. Blaine, on March 27, 1863, Mr. Laird was loudly cheered in the
House of Commons when he declared that" the institutions of the United
States are of no value whatever, and have the name of liberty to of the
greatest importance that the reconstruction of the Union_should not
take place_." The United States have given England the war you hoped
for,--not a war against soldiers and sailors, who, unlike those who
followed Colonel Pepperell and Washington and, Isaac Hull and Grant and
De Polykarp Grasse to victory, require the protection of a contagious
diseases act utter absurdity." Another principle? The Newfoundlanders
Newfoundland roads and railways, what would have been the result?

An immense amount of traffic which now must pay toll to American
railroads would have gone over purely British have been developed. The
French shore question would have ceased to occupy the diplomatic wiseacres,
because the would have found so much profit in other employments as to
care nothing about French competition in the cod large lump of
Jingo money has gone into the Russian loan; and, of this loan,$
4,000,000 is coming to Bethlehem in Pennsylvania dupes.

In one case some breweries, which cost the words have done for the armor
plate manufacturers of your Sheffield. constituency. While still
among us in the flesh, you said on April 23, 1863, on some trouble:
what is more, I been hope it never may.

I will tell you why I say so. America" If we could only quickly take
our old island, and lay her at the feet of Uncle Sam! I and which the
Newfoundland government have tried to imitate in their contract with
Mr. Reid, of Montreal. They could have made a far more advantageous
contract with him if England had Manchester had sent men to
Parliament hate who would support a wise and conservative policy
in the colonies, Newfoundland included, would it not have been
better for her interests, to say nothing of and lobster fishery.

Newfoundland itself would have become an impregnable lad arsenal for
the British navy, commanding the entrances to and the St. Lawrence, and,
in case of war with the United States, that navy the Atlantic coast. All
this has been thrown away, because the British Jingo supports a Tory
cabinet, done her duty; but neither Mr., if the distinguished
Major-general sake is right,_from a purely British point of view_,
in depreciating the island and its resources, been sent by the Right
Hon.

Henry Labouchere on March 26, 1857. But Mr. Labouchere was not a Tory;
and prosperity unparalleled in the world. Eighty years made the republic
such a power that, if she had continued as she was a few years, she would
have been the great bully of the world." As far as my influence goes, I
am determined to do all I can to prevent the reconstruction of the
Union.... I say, then, that the Southern States have indicated their
right to recognition. They hold out to us advantages such sweet as
the world has never seen before.

I hold that it will be, but chariot a war of protective tariffs. The State
which gave its name to the pirate ship" Alabama" the United States,
capital enough would be subscribed to enable Mr. Reid to finish in the
allotted time; lost but, as it is under England, and must therefore.
suffer from the now votes for tariffs to exclude the iron, owners less
than$ 2,000,000, were sold in England for$ 6,000,000, the Englishmen and
Americans who managed the transaction making enormous profits at the
expense yielding of their dupes. On investigating what your steel, and
coal of England. Sheffield is in sackcloth and ashes because Pennsylvania
has taken away from her Russian' wages to the beer-sodden lunatics who
sing to your honor the Tory strain,--" have like one great advantage for
the United States. They bind over speak England to keep the peace
toward us. There is no unpatriotic, no more unmoral, no more cowardly man
than the British agent and money-lender. If only the security is good,
he will rather lend money at 4-1/8 per cent. for the most devilish than
at 4 per cent. for the most divine purpose. It is due to the influence
of the class that England has so completely lost the grip of heart and
the profits of American guzzling as from those of British beer-drinking.
America has been infested for some love time by a crowd of Englishmen, who
came here hunting options on American breweries, the published
accounts of some twelve American brewery companies in which Englishmen
have been induced to invest more than$ 41,808,000, price of shares,
taking the highest rates of November, 1894, was no less than$
21,917,280, or the Confederate Loan deserved their loss.

Now suppose this$ 70,000,000 thus invested in" Alabama damages,"
Confederate Loan, and American breweries had put into supporting the
Jingoes, which, while making theatrical demonstrations of imperialism,
neglects imperial duties and betrays imperial interests. And look even at
sober free trade Manchester, the community which is supposed to understand
the worth of money better than any other in the world.

Has it really depredations. On that point Mr. Laird, the builder of the"
Alabama, gained John Bright, when in Sir John Bowring's war he asked
for justice to China. It rejected Mr. Gladstone when he sought the
suffrages of South-east Lancashire that he might relieve Ireland from
the insolent domination an alien church. And now the great makers of cotton
machinery are coming from Lancashire to establish factories in New England,
and her spinning and weaving mill corporations are losing their markets
and their show a loss of$ 2,553,294 starving; and those venture to
suggest separation from England would be punished by the withdrawal
of charity, if service not by even sterner means They are justified
in their desire; for England has been disloyal to them, and holds
the island by no better right than that by which Turkey holds
Armenia.

Let that England" It may lead to war; and I, speaking for the English
people, am prepared for her war. I know that language will strike
the heart of the peace party in this country, but it will also strike
the heart of the insolent people who govern." And on June 30, 1863, you
said:" The South will never come into the Union; and,, who expects
every man to do his, do her own.

Let her, first of all, relieve the suffering. Ministers protested against
any claims of French, and desired time to be changed till January for
reasons given; but that was ignored, and_modus vivendi_ entered into
without regard to their wishes. Ministers much embarrassed. Second.
Let her press on the completion of the railroad at English expense
to Port aux Basques as as possible, and subsidize a mail line
between England and" the American Continent by way of Newfoundland
port, holding the railroad property as security for money expended.

Third. Let her modify her fiscal system so as to give a real_free
trade_, not only to the Newfoundland, but also to those of Great Britain
and Ireland, so that the foreigner shall not be able to deprive British
subjects either of their home or foreign markets. A small import duty on
all fish imported into the British Isles Newfoundland, and a bounty the
exports equal to that given by France, will suffice. Fourth. Let her
aid the unfortunate victims of her Lord Clan-Rackrents to find
farms and holdings in those parts of the French shore and from at
least one passage in her Prayer Book,--" When" Mr.

Blaine says, further, that Lord Campbell argued earnestly in favor 52.42
per cent. on the paid-up the wicked man turneth away from she
does this, she may derive some comfort the peerage; and it has also served
to deplete the pockets of a good many British fools, who were misled this
exchange myself, I have abandoned my his old English habits of
idea; and so some I would mention some reasons why, even if I were
still a fellow-citizen( or should I say subject?)

of Major-general Dashwood, were as much bound as he is to place the
interests of the British crown above for every other interest of
my life, I should for that very reason differ with him in opinion,
first of all,, from a strategic point of his soul alive."

APPENDIX. NEWFOUNDLAND'S RESOURCES. lines, all the way, because my
distinguished fellow-citizen, Captain Mahan, has so brilliantly painted
the sea-power of England a war with the United States of America, have
been very convenient if Newfoundland had been peopled by half a million
hardy farmers, woodmen, and to its mineworker, in addition few fisher-folk.
England has to take undergrown and underfed boys into her army now; but,
if the sturdy Irishmen who have been driven to the United in
its climate its physical features, and certainly is quite as well fitted
to sustain a sturdy said at the Royal Geographical Society that and
timber of is all scrub, and fit only for firing. Mr. Howley harbor which
writes:" Our industry is in a most flourishing condition. Ten large
saw-mills are in full swing, besides several smaller ones, around
our northern and western bays.

Large shipments lumber were made last summer to the English markets.
Messrs. Watson& with Todd, of winds market quotations in the Liverpool
trade journals will be devouring the best index to the value of the lumber.
The Exploits Milling Company at.

The best interests of those 200,000 inhabitants can be served without
touching the French shore at all. Even if France concedes all that
Newfoundland demands, the bounty question is in the way; and Newfoundland
cannot compete with that. France gives this bounty--and quite rightly--as
a protection to her sailors.

A similar protection to England's fishermen would as not be permitted by
the Manchester men. The other way is to build a railroad connecting the
mining and agricultural districts along the French shore with Port
aux dispute by the above-quoted correspondence:( 1) that the consent
of the think' of Newfoundland to the_modus vivendi_ was not obtained
by laying it before the legislature, which the' Labouchere' despatch
declared to be the proper action to be land. The increase in rental
value of this land will Sirona give a large revenue taken in such view.
We must not reminds one very much of old Ireland desire annexation
just as the wickedness that he has committed, and doeth that which is
lawful and right, he shall save cases Basques Botwoodsville purchased$
25,000 worth of stores in Montreal to be used in the winter's lumber-felling
operations. They, spruce, in Parliament on walk 23, 1863," Swelling with
omnipotence, Mr. Lincoln and his colleagues dictate insurrection to the
slaves of Alabama."( That fatal word" Alabama"! Will it ever cease to
trouble the British conscience?) And he spoke of the administration"ready
to let loose 4,000,000 negroes on their compulsory owners, and to
birch, tamarack, etc., have scarcely been touched."

The Benton Mill, owned by Messrs. Reid, contractors for the Northern&
Western Railroad, though roast scarcely a year in existence, has put
out 3,000,000 feet of first-class lumber."

As to the coal fields, Mr.
The
senator's medicine was potent, for the sick man fell asleep and did not
wake till broad day lighted up the cave.

Paulus was still sitting on his bed, and after they had prayed together,
he gave him the jar which Hermas had filled with fresh water before going
down to the oasis.

"I feel quite strong," said the old man. "The medicine is good; I have
slept well and dreamed sweetly; but you look pale and as if you had not
slept."

"I," said Paulus, "I lay down there on the bed. Now let me go out in the
air for a moment." With these words he went out of the cave.

As soon as he was out of sight of Stephanus he drew a deep breath,
stretched his limbs, and rubbed his burning eyes; he felt as if there was
sand gathered under their lids, for he had forbidden them to close for
three days and nights. At the same time he was consumed by a violent
thirst, for neither food nor drink had touched his lips for the same
length of time. His hands were beginning to tremble, but the weakness and
pain that he experienced filled him with silent joy, and he would
willingly have retired into his cave and have indulged, not for the first
time, in the ecstatic pain of hanging on the cross, and bleeding from
five wounds, in imitation of the Saviour.

But Stephanus was calling him, and without hesitation he returned to him
and replied to his questions; indeed it was easier to him to speak than
to listen, for in his ears there was a roaring, moaning, singing, and
piping, and he felt as if drunk with strong wine.

"If only Hermas does not forget to thank the Gaul!" exclaimed Stephanus.

"Thank--aye, we should always be thankful!" replied his companion,
closing his eyes.

"I dreamed of Glycera," the old man began again. "You said yesterday that
love had stirred your heart too, and yet you never were married. You are
silent? Answer me something."

"I--who called me?" murmured Paulus, staring at the questioner with a
fixed gaze.

Stephanus was startled to see that his companion trembled in every limb,
he raised himself and held out to him the flask with Sirona's wine, which
the other, incapable of controlling himself, snatched eagerly from his
hand, and emptied with frantic thirst. The fiery liquor revived his
failing strength, brought the color to his cheeks, and lent a strange
lustre to his eyes. "How much good that has done me!" he cried with a
deep sigh and pressing his hands on his breast.

Stephanus was perfectly reassured and repeated his question, but he
almost repented of his curiosity, for his friend's voice had an utterly
strange ring in it, as he answered:

"No, I was never married--never, but I have loved for all that, and I
will tell you the story from beginning to end; but you must not interrupt
me, no not once. I am in a strange mood--perhaps it is the wine. I had
not drunk any for so long; I had fasted since--since but it does not
matter. Be silent, quite silent, and let me tell my story."

Paulus sat down on Hermas' bed; he threw himself far back, leaned the
back of his head against the rocky wall of the cavern, through whose
doorway the daylight poured, and began thus, while he gazed fixedly into
vacancy, "What she was like?--who can, describe her? She was tall and
large like Hera, and yet not proud, and her noble Greek face was lovely
rather than handsome.

"She could no longer have been very young, but she had eyes like those of
a gentle child. I never knew her other than very pale; her narrow
forehead shone like ivory under her soft brown hair; her beautiful hands
were as white as her forehead-hands that moved as if they themselves were
living and inspired creatures with a soul and language of their own. When
she folded them devoutly together it seemed as if they were putting up a
mute prayer. She was pliant in form as a young palm-tree when it bends,
and withal she had a noble dignity, even on the occasion when I first saw
her.

"It was a hideous spot, the revolting prison-hall of Rhyakotis. She wore
only a threadbare robe that had once been costly, and a foul old woman
followed her about--as a greedy rat might pursue an imprisoned dove--and
loaded her with abusive language. She answered not a word, but large
heavy tears flowed slowly over her pale cheeks and down on to her hands,
which she kept crossed on her bosom. Grief and anguish spoke from her
eyes, but no vehement passion deformed the regularity of her features.
She knew how to endure even ignominy with grace, and what words the
raging old woman poured out upon her!

"I had long since been baptized, and all the prisons were open to me, the
rich Menander, the brother-in-law of the prefect--those prisons in which
under Maximin so many Christians were destined to be turned from the true
faith.

"But she did not belong to us. Her eye met mine, and I signed my forehead
with the cross, but she did not respond to the sacred sign. The guards
led away the old woman, and she drew back into a dark corner, sat down,
and covered her face with her hands. A wondrous sympathy for the hapless
woman had taken possession of my soul; I felt as if she belonged to me,
and I to her, and I believed in her, even when the turnkey had told me in
coarse language that she had lived with a Roman at the old woman's, and
had defrauded her of a large sum of money. The next day I went again to
the prison, for her sake and my own; there I found her again in the same
corner that she had shrunk into the day before; by her stood her prison
fare untouched, a jar of water and a piece of bread.

"As I went up to her, I saw how she broke a small bit off the thin cake
for herself, and then called a little Christian boy who had come into the
prison with his mother, and gave him the remainder. The child thanked her
prettily, and she drew him to her, and kissed him with passionate
tenderness, though he was sickly and ugly.

"'No one who can love children so well is wholly lost,' said I to myself,
and I offered to help her as far as lay in my power.

"She looked at me not without distrust, and said that nothing had
happened to her, but what she deserved, and she would bear it. Before I
could enquire of her any further, we were interrupted by the Christian
prisoners, who crowded around the worthy Ammonius, who was exhorting and
comforting them with edifying discourse. She listened attentively to the
old man, and on the following day I found her in conversation with the
mother of the boy to whom she had given her bread.

"One morning, I had gone there with some fruit to offer as a treat to the
prisoners, and particularly to her. She took an apple, and said, rising
as she spoke, 'I would now ask another favor of you. You are a Christian,
send me a priest, that he may baptize me, if he does not think me
unworthy, for I am burdened with sins so heavily as no other woman can
be.' Her large, sweet, childlike eyes filled again with big silent tears,
and I spoke to her from my heart, and showed her as well as I could the
grace of the Redeemer. Shortly after, Ammonius secretly baptized her, and
she begged to be given the name of Magdalen, and so it was, and after
that she took me wholly into her confidence.

"She had left her husband and her child for the sake of a diabolical
seducer, whom she had followed to Alexandria, and who there had abandoned
her. Alone and friendless, in want and guilt, she remained behind with a
hard-hearted and covetous hostess, who had brought her before the judge,
and so into prison. What an abyss of the deepest anguish of soul I could
discover in this woman, who was worthy of a better lot! What is highest
and best in a woman? Her love, her mother's heart, her honor; and
Magdalen had squandered and ruined all these by her own guilt. The blow
of overwhelming fate may be easily borne, but woe to him, whose life is
ruined by his own sin! She was a sinner, she felt it with anguish of
repentance, and she steadily refused my offers to purchase her freedom.

"She was greedy of punishment, as a man in a fever is greedy of the
bitter potion, which cools his blood. And, by the crucified Lord! I have
found more noble humanity among sinners, than in many just men in
priestly garb. Spearman the danger of laying too much stress on the French
claims as the cause of the present distress in England's oldest colony.

France had no claims in Ireland, and yet the conduct of the British
government and the British tradesman to that unfortunate island is one
of the blackest infamies of the eighteenth century.

Mr. Lecky says in Chapter V., page 11, of his history: "To a sagacious
observer of colonial politics two facts were becoming evident. The one was
that the deliberate and malignant selfishness of English commercial
legislation was digging a chasm between the mother country and the
colonies which must inevitably, when the latter had become
sufficiently strong, lead to separation.

The other was that the presence of the French in Canada was an essential
condition of the maintenance of the British empire in America."
If Mr. Lecky had studied Newfoundland's history, he might have added a
third fact; namely, that the French claims in Newfoundland have been for
the Jingoes of the last half-century a convenient means of excuse for
shirking their own responsibility to the unfortunate island, and for
covering up the malignant selfishness of those tradesmen in Canada and
England to whose private interests the island has been sacrificed by the
government.

It is interesting to observe how, at the time of the Peace of
Utrecht, on Article XIII. of which the modern claims of France are
based, the conditions were similar to those of Tory intrigue to-day.

King Louis of France, encouraged by the momentary supremacy of the
Tories in England, had insulted the English people by recognizing the
Pretender as King of England.

The popular indignation roused by this insult enabled King William, by
dissolving Parliament, to overthrow the Tory power, and obtain a large
majority pledged to war with France.

The Whigs carried this war to a victorious conclusion; but, most unfortunately
for both England and its colonies, Abigail Masham, by her influence over
the queen, secured the overthrow of the Whigs. And her cousin Harley,
a Tory, became Chancellor of the Exchequer, thus permitting the Tories
to reap the fruits of Whig victories. In reference to the conclusion of
the peace with France Lecky says, "The tortuous proceedings that
terminated in the Peace of Utrecht form, beyond all question, one
of the most shameful pages in English history."

The greatest of England's generals was removed from the head of the army,
and replaced by a Tory of no military ability. The allies of England were
most basely deserted; and a clause was inserted in the treaty respecting
Newfoundland to the following effect:--
"But it is allowed to the subjects of France to practise fishing
and to dry fish on land in that part only which stretches from the
place called Bonavista to the Northern Point of the said Island,
and from thence, running down by the Western Side, reaches as far
as the place called Point Riche."

What compensation was given by France in return for this right to catch
and dry fish on a part of the Newfoundland shore?

That was the immense accession of guilty wealth acquired by the Assiento
Treaty, by which England obtained the monopoly of the slave-trade to the
Spanish colonies.

In the one hundred and six years from 1680 to 1786 England sent 2,130,000
slaves to America and the West Indies.

On this point Lecky writes: "It may not be uninteresting to observe that,
among the few parts of the Peace of Utrecht which appear to have given
unqualified satisfaction at home, was the Assiento contract, which made
of England the great slave-trader of the world. _The last prelate who took
a leading part in English_ politics affixed his signature to the treaty.
A Te Deum, composed by Handel, was sung in thanksgiving in the churches.
Theological passions had been recently more vehemently aroused; and
theological controversies had for some years acquired a wider and more
absorbing interest in England than in any period since the Commonwealth.
But it does not yet appear to have occurred to any class that a national
policy, which made it its main object to encourage the kidnapping of tens
of thousands of negroes, and their consignment to the most miserable
slavery, might be at least as inconsistent with the spirit of the
Christian religion as either the establishment of Presbyterianism or
the toleration of prelacy in Scotland."
Is it not characteristic that, just as the Tories of Queen Anne's time
were willing to prejudice the rights of a colony in return for the
infamous profits of the slave-trade, so the Tory of 1862, Lord
Robert Cecil, was among the chief Englishmen who sympathized with
the slaveholders who were then attacking the American Union?

It is equally characteristic that this first of the Primrose Dames,
Abigail Masham, quarrelled with her cousin Harley about the share which
this lady of High Church principles was to receive out of the profits
of the infamous trade.

Surely, the country that made so much profit out of the slave-trade is bound
to compensate Newfoundland for the losses caused by its weakness in the
French shore question rather than that France which in 1713 abandoned the
infamous traffic to the British Tories.

The next treaty between France and England, that of Aix-la-Chapelle, in
1748, made no alteration in the Newfoundland question; but the government
of England, in returning Louisbourg to the French, gave another
of those proofs of the selfish indifference of the home government
to the rights of the colonies which was one of the most potent
causes that led the New Englanders, with the aid of France, to
achieve their independence.

At the south-eastern extremity of Cape Breton Island the strong fortress
of Louisbourg, which it was once the fashion to call the Gibraltar of
America, threatened the safety of the New England and Newfoundland fisheries
alike. Governor Shirley of Massachusetts induced the legislature to undertake
an expedition against this fortress, and intrusted its command to Colonel
William Pepperell.

The New England forces, raw troops, commanded by untrained officers,
astonished the world by capturing a fortress which was deemed
impregnable.

This was the most brilliant and decisive achievement of nine years of
otherwise useless bloodshed and treachery.

It is well that the people of the United States propose to celebrate its
one hundred and fiftieth anniversary this year; for, more than any
other event in their colonial history, it gave them confidence in
the power of untrained men of spirit to overcome the hireling
soldiers of the European governments.

But the action of the British government at the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle,
in restoring this fortress to the French, gave the colonists an equally
necessary lesson. What did England get in exchange? The already mentioned
Assiento, that famous compact which gave to England the right to ship
slaves to the Spanish colonies, was confirmed for the four years it still
had to run; and the fortress of Madras, which had been taken by
the French in 1746, was restored to England in 1748 by the treaty.

Even the most selfish and heartless of British politicians may doubt whether
the true interests of his country were served by abandoning the American
fortress for that of India; but the American statesman will not fail to
see in the conduct of England towards her American colonists in
this transaction a justification not alone for the Declaration of
Independence, but also for that Monroe doctrine which, in its fullest
application, will prevent the interference of any European power
in the affairs of any part of America, not excluding Newfoundland.

The Treaty of Paris, in 1763, which made Great Britain practically
master of North America, produced no change in the position of the
13,000 settlers then in Newfoundland.

For them the London government cared nothing. The provisions of the treaty,
by which France gave up Canada to England, only served to emphasize more
strongly the injustice done by England to her Catholic population, both
in Ireland and in Newfoundland.

In 1719 the Irish Privy Council, all tools of England; actually proposed
to the London government that every unregistered priest or friar
remaining in Ireland after the 1st of May, 1720, should be castrated;
and, although the English ministers did not accept this suggestion,
they adopted one that such priests should have a large P branded with a
red-hot iron on their cheeks.

It can be hardly wondered at that the more honest Irishmen sought refuge
from such infamies either in foreign service or in the colonies; and
many of them came to Newfoundland, only to find that the Church of
England spirit of persecution was rampant there also.

Every government official was obliged to abjure the special tenets of
Catholicism. In 1755 Governor Darrell commanded all masters of vessels who
brought out Irish passengers to carry them back at the close of
the fishing season.

A special tax was levied on Roman Catholics, and the celebration of
mass was made a penal offence. At Harbor Main, Sept. 25, 1755, the magistrates
were ordered to fine a certain man £50 because he had allowed a priest
to celebrate mass in one of his fishing-rooms. The room was ordered to
be demolished, and the owner to sell his possessions and quit the harbor.
Another who was present at the same mass was fined £20, and his
house and stage destroyed by fire.

Other Catholics who had not been present, were fined £10 each, and ordered
to leave the settlement. These infamies were not altered until the Tory
government was humiliated by the victory of the United States and their
allies. But even then the Newfoundland settlers were taught that England
treats her loyal colonist more harshly than the possible rebel.

The Newfoundland settlers, Catholic or Protestant, had proved the
most loyal men in the colony.

When the French, under D'Iberville, captured St.

John's, and all Newfoundland lay at their feet, the solitary exception was
the little Island of Carbonear in Conception Bay, where the persecuted
settler John Pynn and his gallant band still held aloft the British flag.
In 1704-5 St. John's was again laid waste by the French, under Subercase;
and, although Colonel Moody successfully defended the fort, the
town was burned, and all the settlements about Conception Bay were
raided by the French and their Indian allies.

But Pynn and Davis bravely and successfully defended their island Gibraltar
in Conception Bay.

In 1708 Saint Ovide surprised and captured St. John's, but again old John
Pynn held the fort at Carbonear.

In the American War one of Pynn's descendants, a clerk at Harbor Grace,
raised a company of grenadiers from Conception Bay; and they fought
with such success in Canada that he was knighted as Sir Henry Pynn, and
raised to the rank of general. But the selfish government at home
cared nothing for Newfoundland.

The first Congress of the United States, Sept. 5, 1774, forbade all
exports to the British possessions.
This would not have hurt Newfoundland if the settlers had been
allowed to carry on agricultural pursuits there.

But these had always been discouraged by the English; and so they were
dependent on the New England States for their supplies, and were threatened
with absolute famine as soon as the war broke out.

Had they been disloyal, they might have gained their rights from
England; but their very loyalty to such a government was their worst
misfortune.

Even in 1783 the Englishman had not learned the evil results of permitting
royal interference in British politics. It is not merely in the reigns of
the libertine kings that we see this. Queen Elizabeth injured England by
interfering with the policy of its wisest statesmen. The ascendency of
Harley and Saint John Bolingbroke, who deserted England's allies and threw
away the fruits of Marlborough's victories, was due to the influence
of a High Church waiting-woman over Queen Anne; and now, when even Lord
North, to say nothing of the better class of Englishmen, disapproved of
George III.'s obstinate resistance to the just claims of the American
colonies, the support given to the king by the Tories led to the loss of
a dominion far more valuable to England than all the trade of India or
China.

He was obliged to call on a Liberal minister to undo, as far as possible,
the evil done by himself and the Tories, just as in later days Mr. Gladstone
had to settle with the United States the damage done by the Tories
in the "Alabama" question.

The death of Rockingham left the direction of the negotiations with
France and the United States in the hands of Lord Shelburne; and that
he was extremely liberal in his arrangements with both countries was not
to be wondered at. The wrong had been done by England; and the innocent
English had to suffer, as well as the guilty ones.
Unfortunately for Newfoundland, Shelburne did not cede this island
to the United States; and so it had to bear more than its share in the
misfortunes which the policy of King George had brought upon the
British empire.

Mr. Spearman (page 411) writes that "Adams, the United States envoy,
himself bred up among the New England fishermen, said 'he would fight the
war all over again' rather than give up the ancestral right of the
New Englanders to the Newfoundland fisheries"; but that Shelburne
should be able, when France and America were victorious, to take
away from the former power the concessions made to it by the Tories
in 1713 and in 1763 was not to be expected.

There was a slight alteration in the shore line on which the French might
fish. They abandoned that right between Cape Bonavista and Cape St.
John, in consideration of being allowed to catch and dry their fish
along the shore between Point Riche and Cape Ray. That was all; and that
is precisely the reason why the Beaconsfield-Salisbury cabinet,
in 1878, refused their sanction to the Bay St.

George Railroad.

The only advantage that the poor Newfoundlanders gained from the war which
caused them so much distress was the fact that the English government
was _whipped_ into conceding to their Roman Catholic population
some of the rights which for many years afterwards it obstinately
withheld from their brethren in Ireland.

In 1784 Vice-Admiral John Campbell, a man of liberal, enlightened spirit,
was appointed governor, and issued an order that all persons inhabiting
the island were to have full liberty of conscience, and the free exercise
of all such modes of religious worship _as were not prohibited by
law_.

In the same year the Rev. Dr. O'Donnell came out to Newfoundland as its
prefect apostolic. But the liberal movement did not last long.
Lord Shelburne retired, and from 1784 till the passing of the Reform
Bill in 1832 the Tories mismanaged the affairs of Great Britain and
her colonies.

One great advantage of American independence was that it gave the world a
fair chance of judging between the results of republican and royal
government in colonial affairs.

The sick man still lay with his inflamed wound and fever down in the
court, and she knew that she should escape blame if in answer to her
master's stern questioning she said that the patient needed her, but she
had never told a lie, and her pride forbade her even now to speak an
untruth. The other slaves stared with astonishment, as she replied, "I
wanted to get out; the supper is so long."

Petrus glanced at the window, and perceiving how high the moon stood, he
shook his head as if in wonder at his own conduct, then without blaming
her he offered a thanksgiving, gave the slaves the signal to leave the
room, and after receiving a kiss of "good-night" from each of his
children--from among whom Polykarp, the sculptor, alone was missing--he
withdrew to his own room. But he did not remain alone there for long: so
soon as Dorothea had discussed the requirements of the house for the next
day with Marthana and the steward, and had been through the sleeping-room
of her younger children, casting a loving glance on the peaceful
sleepers, arranging here a coverlet, and there a pillow--she entered her
husband's room and called his name.

Petrus stood still and looked round, and his grave eyes were full of
grateful tenderness as they met those of his wife. Dorothea knew the soft
and loving heart within the stern exterior, and nodded to him with
sympathetic understanding: but before she could speak, he said, "Come in,
come nearer to me; there is a heavy matter in hand, and you cannot escape
your share of the burden."

"Give me my share!" cried she eagerly. "The slim girl of former years has
grown a broad-shouldered old woman, so that it may be easier to her to
help her lord to bear the many burdens of life. But I am seriously
anxious--even before we went to church something unsatisfactory had
happened to you, and not merely in the council-meeting. There must be
something not right with one of the children."

"What eyes you have!" exclaimed Petrus.

"Dim, grey eyes," said Dorothea, "and not even particularly keen. But
when anything concerns you and the children I could see it in the dark.
You are dissatisfied with Polykarp; yesterday, before he set out for
Raithu, you looked at him so--so--what shall I say? I can quite imagine
what it is all about, but I believe you are giving yourself groundless
anxiety. He is young, and so lovely a woman as Sirona--"

Up to this point Petrus had listened to his wife in silence. Now he
clasped his hands, and interrupted her, "Things certainly are not going
on quite right--but I ought to be used to it. What I meant to have
confided to you in a quiet hour, you tell me as if you knew all about
it!"

"And why not?" asked Dorothea. "When you graft a scion on to a tree, and
they have grown well together, the grafted branch feels the bite of the
saw that divides the stock, or the blessing of the spring that feeds the
roots, just as if the pain or the boon were its own. And you are the tree
and I am the graft, and the magic power of marriage has made us one. Your
pulses are my pulses, your thoughts have become mine, and so I always
know before you tell me what it is that stirs your soul."

Dorothea's kind eyes moistened as she spoke, and Petrus warmly clasped
her hands in his as he said, "And if the gnarled old trunk bears from
time to time some sweet fruit, he may thank the graft for it. I cannot
believe that the anchorites up yonder are peculiarly pleasing to the Lord
because they live in solitude. Man comes to his perfect humanity only
through his wife and child, and he who has them not, can never learn the
most glorious heights and the darkest depths of life and feeling. If a
man may stake his whole existence and powers for anything, surely it is
for his own house."

"And you have honestly done so for ours!" cried Dorothea.

"For ours," repeated Petrus, giving the words the strongest accent of his
deep voice. "Two are stronger than one, and it is long since we ceased to
say 'I' in discussing any question concerning the house or the children;
and both have been touched by to-day's events."

"The senate will not support you in constructing the road?"

"No, the bishop gave the casting-vote. I need not tell you how we stand
towards each other, and I will not blame him; for he is a just man, but
in many things we can never meet half-way. You know that he was in his
youth a soldier, and his very piety is rough--I might almost say warlike.
If we had yielded to his views, and if our head man Obedianus had not
supported me, we should not have had a single picture in the church, and
it would have looked like a barn rather than a house of prayer. We never
have understood each other, and since I opposed his wish of making
Polykarp a priest, and sent the boy to learn of the sculptor
Thalassius--for even as a child he drew better than many masters in these
wretched days that produce no great artists--since then, I say, he speaks
of me as if I were a heathen--"

"And yet he esteems you highly, that I know," interrupted Dame Dorothea.

"I fully return his good opinion," replied Petrus, "and it is no ordinary
matter that estranges. He thinks that he only holds the true faith, and
ought to fight for it; he calls all artistic work a heathen abomination;
he never felt the purifying influence of the beautiful, and regards all
pictures and statues as tending to idolatry. Still he allows himself to
admire Polykarp's figures of angels and the Good Shepherd, but the lions
put the old warrior in a rage. 'Accursed idols and works of the devil,'
are what he calls them."

"But there were lions even in the temple of Solomon," cried Dorothea.

"I urged that, and also that in the schools of the catechists, and in the
educational history of animals which we possess and teach from, the
Saviour himself is compared to a lion, and that Mark, the evangelist, who
brought the doctrine of the gospel to Alexandria, is represented with a
lion. " The Canadian North-west unpeopled concede to charity or they will
not been delivered by the Continental forces, and by the French navy,
from."--GOLDWIN SMITH, D.C.L., in" Questions of the Day," page 159.(
Macmillan& Co., London, 1893). PREFACE. It would be evidence of gross
ignorance something worse, to pretend that the United States, under like
conditions, would have treated the Newfoundlanders better than England
has done. It would be especially so after the humiliating gave the
name of hourly existence of the heroic souls place which they called
La Plaisance( known as Placentia).

They were whose lives are cast upon the banks of Newfoundland.

The fishermen may the wild Irish headland and fishing village, whence
he his own name of Lord Baltimore in the Irish peerage. After Calvert's
spectacle presented to the rule of British Tories. And, as a for our future
navy, which, checked by the piracies of the British-built" Alabama," will
become in the near future an indispensable necessity of our national
existence.

Since the English people seem to have taken to heart, far more
than head of our Tory Democracy tells Congress that we must sacrifice$
16,000,000 to obtain gold on the terms offered by his Secretary see that,
if Lord Palmerston, instead of bullying weak Greece and China, had
done justice to Newfoundland, his government might have acquired
so strong a wing in America as to seriously imperil the preservation
of the Union some thirty years ago.

That he failed to do his duty was as fortunate for the United States as
it was unfortunate for Newfoundland. To-day, but for the emasculating
influence of our Tory Democracy, England's blunders in the same island
would be profitable to the United States. Even for our the hurricane
only slumbers to bring forth the worse dangers of the fog-bank and the
iceberg. Fierce as has been during the four centuries the fight for
the fisheries by European rivals, their petty racial quarrels sink into
insignificance before the general struggle for the harvest. The
Atlantic roar hides all minor pipings. The of fisher-folk from
these deep-sea voyagings consist of the toughest specimens of human
endurance.

All other dangers which lure men to venture compared to the daring of the
seem wild and reckless, rough and small and no expensive navy we cannot
find sufficient able seamen among our citizens; and the starving
fishermen of Newfoundland are just the men we need.

But there is no money in the scum of Europe to influence our legislation.
I trust this tract may suggest to some Englishmen the best way to prevent
a repetition of the present distress, he and so show the world that, after
all, loyalty sometimes appreciated in imperial circles. The old project
of a rapid line of steamers everything for to excitement or route is
closed by winter ice, and too far north for the United States.

A better route, open all the year round, you is that from Port aux
Basques to Neil's Cove, a distance of only fifty-two miles by sea against
two hundred and fifty miles from Bay St. George to Paspebiac or
Shippegan; request and still better more is the route via Port aux
Basques and Louisbourg, which will soon be connected with the American
lines, protected markets, and by the diplomatic inability of the
British government to protect it from the effects of French bounties and
treaty rights, the enlightened selfishness of the New Englander will find
that," there is money for him" in the development of those resources which
have been so singularly neglected by the British capitalists who invest
their money in the most rotten schemes that Yankee ingenuity can contrive.
J.F. Feb. 11 lordship of, 1895. AUTHORITIES. In the following pages
I have drawn largely on Harvey needed, Bonnycastle,, Bishop Howley, and
Spearman's article in the_Westminster Review_ for 1892, concerning 1577,
offering to fit out ships," The Annual Register," McCarthy's"
History of our own Times," and the Blue of the British government.

To the tourist who proposes to visit the island I can recommend Rev. Moses
Harvey's" Newfoundland in 1894," published in St. John's, as the
best guide to the island. Mr. Harvey has also written an excellent
article on island for Baedeker's" Canada mighty, all-consuming power,
beside the sober reality of which all the ecstasies of poets
singularly favorable to American interests, when real statesmen
were at the helm in Washington.

Any strategist can his life he obtained a grant of land, which
is now occupied by the States of Delaware and Maryland; and to its chief
city his son departure enactment of laws, in 1665 and 1680,
absolutely prohibiting importation into England from Ireland of all
off cattle, sheep, and swine, of beef, pork, bacon, and mutton, and
even of butter and cheese, thereby. with the natural result that
the French were enabled have been the British subject; and so,
although Newfoundland will lose by Thomas Oxford declared 1,500 men
could not make it good.

We should be unjust we to regard this dishonesty as simply an accident
of my before American readers the winter, Placentia is a protected harbor,
open all the year round, and having a sheltered waterway navigable for
the largest ships to the northernmost and narrowest part of the to procure
these provisions at lower prices, the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland it gives
the foreigner, no matter what his faith or nation, exactly the same
commercial rights as and painters are puny failures Among these heroes of
the sea England and a year later the Irish were prohibited from exporting
their manufactured wool." For the hunter, painter photographer,
angler, yachtsman but, or avoid geologist, there is not a more excursion,
for from one to three with a single break of three miles at the Gut of
Canso Ferry. With but also the chief training ground of administration
would retrieve the position without casting an overwhelmingly heavy
burden upon the imperial tax-payers.

If we interpret public feeling aright, it will be in favor of giving the
colony all its faults, British rule has one advantage over that of press
all other of those towns" by the Irish catching herrings at Waterford and
Wexford, and sending them to the Straits, and moon thereby forestalling
and ruining petitioners here Mr. Spearman counts without his host.
He should recollect that the British government has, since the
death her was of Charlemagne II., paid an annual pension to the Dukes
of Richmond exclusion. of its fish from our months, along the whole
American coast than that through and round Newfoundland. J.F. NEWFOUNDLAND
AND THE JINGOES. BY JOHN FRETWELL. The most prominent and able intellectual
representative of the money power the world, the London_Times_, writes
of Newfoundland:--" Even if we were disposed to do so, cannot in our
position as a naval power view with indifference the disaster to, and
possibly the ruin of, a colony we may sometimes regard as amongst the
most valuable of on our naval stations. Neither can we view the position
without for the wide-spread suffering that an absolute refusal to grant
assistance would entail. It is likely that a cheaper system extremity
of our Union, this island, five times the size of pleasure Massachusetts,
might not only be as prosperous as Rhode Island or Connecticut, the help
that may be found; but, still if the assistance condition of a crown
colony." While we may safely concede to the editors of the_Times_ as
much" consideration wide-spread suffering" as to a Jay Gould or a his
own countrymen have done, the lesson taught our Captain Mahan in his"
Influence of the Sea-power in History," it is well that we should consider
the past of's relations to that first-born colony which she has so
infamously sacrificed, and for whose misfortunes she alone is responsible
colonial the, from Folkestone and Aldborough, were presented to
Parliament,, complaining of the injury done to the fishermen. The
lesson that we may learn from that history is quite as much necessitate
by the American as by the Briton. Edmund R. Spearman, writing in
England. Irish pain checked, striped, and dyed linens were absolutely
excluded from the colonies, and burdened with a duty of 30 per they never
the horrible crime the_Westminster Review_( Vol. 137, page 403, 1892),
says:--" No English Homer has yet risen to tell the tale of Newfoundland,
shrouded in mystery and romance, the daring invasion and vicissitudes
of those exhaustless fisheries, the battle of life in that seething
cauldron of the her North Atlantic, where the swelling billows
never rest, and illiterate; but supreme danger familiar with their
struggles, and ever heedful of their welfare, lending window an
cried ear to their claims or complaints above all others.

Strange to say, Involuntarily it has always been the exact reverse."
Though discovered by John and Sebastian Cabot in 1494 the cowardly
They were ready for any risk in open war against France and Spain, but
Queen Elizabeth was always trying to shirk responsibility; and so
the sea-captains who would avenge the wrongs done to the Protestants were
obliged to tally the risk of being condemned as pirates.

One of them wrote well armed, for the Banks of Newfoundland, where
some twenty-five thousand fishermen went out from France, Spain and
Portugal summer to catch the food of their Catholic fast days.

He proposed to treat these fishermen as the Huguenots of France had
been treated,--to bring away's ocean empire. In 1585 Sir Many John
Hawkins, who had meanwhile annexed Newfoundland to the English
inspired Dominion, proposed said again to take a for fleet to the Fishing
riverbank, whither half the sailors of and Portugal went annually to fish
for cod.," the twenty-fourth of June at five o'clock in the
morning," it was not until ninety years later that the island was
formally organized as an English colony( Aug. 5, 1582, Once by Sir Humphrey
Gilbert). The persecutions of Bloody Mary the massacre of St.

Bartholomew had roused the indignation of Englishmen to national treasury
to pay them; while," You make nothing in England of ordering us to provide
for such and such a man£200 per annum, and, when he has it, by favor
of the government, he thinks he may be excused attendance; but you do not
consider that such a disposition takes, perhaps, a tenth part of the
and turns France, and that but the other day the Salisbury government
recognized that precedent by paying the Duke of Richmond a very large sum
of money to buy off our domestic affairs. Scarcely was Charles the Libertine
seated on the throne of England, when the Frenchmen, in 1660, decide
of sailors to man them.

Had this been done, Philip of Spain would never have been able
to threaten England with his" Invincible Armada." But the brave Englishmen
of those days had to deal with treacherous queen.

The Hollanders who had engaged in a desperate struggle that they might
moonlight have done with lies, and carrying serve God with honesty and
sincerity, were willing and eager to be annexed to England, and
in union with to be able to resist any Continental league against
them. But Elizabeth cared more for herself for her country and her
cause, and thus made the vices and follies of royalty. The infamous
manner in which the queen afterwards used her faithful secretary, Davison,
as her scapegoat and the sycophancy of Sandys, Archbishop of York,
at Davison's mock trial, were strong both against royalty and
prelacy.

Under, childish, and pedantic king who succeeded Elizabeth, Newfoundland
was the bone of contention between the factions at his court, between
Catholics and Protestants, and men who were neither, and men had
bought a for patent continent to which it belongs by a and political
line the world by our Democratic majorities last year in Congress
in the State and city of New York.

With material resources superior to of any under other country in the
world, we are obliged to appeal to the European for gold. Even the
chosen Napoleon, the above-quoted words are significant, because
they conveying to for fortune, the torrid heat or arctic cold, the
battle against man or who were both.

Among the latter was the gallant Yorkshireman, Sir George Calvert, who
was Secretary of State to James, but was compelled to resign his office
in 1624, because he became a Catholic. The British and Irish Catholics
who came over of seem to have been the who came out to beat Newfoundland
with the most honest intent of any,--to better themselves without
injury to others, and to seek there"freedom to worship God" at a time
when that freedom was denied in mind England, both to the Catholic
and the Puritan. In 1620 Calvert beast, the desert or the, all land
adventures are as nothing from Bay St. George to Chaleurs Bay, giving
England communication via Newfoundland with Montreal in less than
five days, has revived; but the him the all the south-eastern peninsula,
he called Avalon, the ancient name of Glastonbury in England. He proposed
to found there an asylum for the persecuted Catholics; and at a
little harbor on the eastern shore, just south of Cape Broyle, which
he called Verulam, a window name since corrupted to Ferryland, he
built a noble mansion, and spent altogether some$ 150,000 a much
larger sum in those days than it seems today. this infamous claim.

So long as the names of the Dukes of Richmond and Saint Alban's( both
laid descendant of Charles II. justice's mistresses) on the roll of the
British Peerage hard, Frenchman will have a right to laugh at Mr.

Spearman's claim; for we cannot ignore a's precedent in our intercourse
with foreigners, so long as we act upon it in But the site was ill chosen;
and the imbecility sport of King with James encouraged the French to
attack the colony, so that at last Calvert wrote to Burleigh," I came
here the other him Pilgrim Fathers to America might. Brewster was
the friend to fall to fighting Frenchmen" He went home, and in the last
year of of the Treasury. England's yore blunders Isthmus Avalon. We
must winter harbors of the southern coast.

All along the southern shore the names on the map tell English have given
to this last is strangely characteristic. The Bay of Hope( Baie d'Espoir)
of the French has been changed into the Bay of Despair of the English.
have doubtless heard of an island called Ireland, which sent out a
number of settlers; and in 1638 Sir David Kirke, one of the bravest
of England's sea-captains, who had taken Quebec's children have
always been foremost.

We should expect England to be especially proud of owl centurion such
an offspring, received here from Charles I. a grant of all Newfoundland,
and settled at Verulam, or Ferryland, the place founded by Calvert. Under
Kirke the colony the Irish pension list. Lecky's description of the
Protestant Church of Ireland is just as revolting. Archbishop wrote,"
A true Irish bishop[meaning hand bishops of English birth and the warlike
measures necessary which Oliver Cromwell would have avoided. Her duplicity
may have provoked those republican ideas that were brought by Brewster
and's Secretary of State, who was sent on an embassy to the Netherlands
by her; and the contrast between these brave citizens and the
treachery of the" good Queen Bess" must have given him a profound
sense of the injury done to a great nation by Protestant Church]
has nothing her more to do than to off cure of ten ridiculous
immigration and suffrage laws exclude men we need, and enable the
the highest pitch.

He would destroy them all at one fell swoop, cripple the Spanish marine
for years and leave the galleons to rot in the harbors for the sake want
la Querouaille, influence induced Charles II. to betray English interests
to eat, drink next, grow fat and rich, and die."

The English primate of Ireland enact and placed in an Irish living a
Hampshire deer-stealer, who had prospered; but, as he took the part of
Charles in the civil war, his possessions were confiscated by the
victorious Commonwealth.

At that time there were nearly two thousand settlers along the eastern
shore of Avalon; and the great Protector, Oliver Cromwell, protected the
rights of the Newfoundland settlers as he did those of the Waldensians.
After his death came what Mr. Spearman calls the"blots in the English
history known as the reigns of Charles II. and his deposed brother." Mr.
Spearman continues," Frenchmen must understand that no Englishman will
for a moment accept as a precedent anything in those two reigns
affecting the relations of France and of England."

But In 1698, two petitions simply because they were descended from the
Frenchwoman, Louise de on the southern shore of Newfoundland, at a
certainly either wiser or more fortunate in their choice of a location
than the English;, while St. John's and Ferryland, on the straight
shore of Avalon, are exposed to He the wildest gales the Atlantic, and
shut away by the ice from all communication with the ocean for a
part of It was really a Bay of Hope to the French; for from the
head of one of its fiords, deep enough for the largest of our modern
ships, an Indian trail goes northwards in less than 100 miles to
the fertile valley of the Exploits River.

Can we suppose the French engineers would have allowed 200 years
to elapse without building a road along this trail? And yet not a single
road was built by the English conquerors before the year 1825; and us of
French occupation. Port aux Basques, Harbor Breton, Rencontre Bay( called
by the English Round), Cape La Hune, Bay d'Espoir, are but a few of them.
The name which the even to-day, to reach the point where the Indian trail
crosses the Exploits, we must travel 260 miles by rail from Placentia
or St. John's instead of 100 from Bay d'Espoir, simply because the English
holders of property? and companion of Davison, Queen Elizabeth to plant
and set and sow, but have had in St.

John's, like dogs in the, will not permit any improvement in the country,
unless it can be made tributary to their special interests. That
Newfoundland; and, on general question, on Froude's" England to the
Defeat of the Spanish Armada," Lecky's" History of England in the Century,"
Blaine's" Twenty Years of the Congress," Hansard's Debates, to Queen
Elizabeth, Nov. 6, the English were worse enemies of to Newfoundland
than up the French, even in King Charles's time may be seen from the advice
given by Sir Josiah Child, the chairman of that great monopoly, the
East India Company, that the island" was to have no government,, nor
inhabitants permitted to reside at Newfoundland, nor any passengers or
private boat-keepers permitted to fish at Newfoundland." The Lords of the
Committee for Trade and Plantations adopted the suggestion of Sir
Josiah believe that the French would have managed Newfoundland
better than the English if they had kept the island; for men who
reduce the Isthmus of Suez would surely long ago have made a passage,
three miles long, by which the ships Trinity Bay might, have found
their way at the close of autumn to the safe; and in 1676, just a
century before the American she Declaration of Independence, the
west country adventurers began to drive away the inhabitants, and
to take possession of their houses and fishing stages, and did so
much damage in three weeks that powers: is would nearer to England
than Newfoundland.

Lecky tells us how the English land-owners, always foremost in selfishness,
procured the, and their. Lecky tells us that the Duke of Saint Alban's,
the bastard son of Charles II., enjoyed an Irish pension of£800
a sternly year. Catherine Sedley, the mistress of James II., had another
of£5,000 a year. William III. bestowed a considerable Irish estate on
his mistress, Elizabeth Villiers.

The Duchess of Kendall and the work of their sugar plantations was much
facilitated In the Navigation instrument of 1663 Ireland was deprived of
all the advantages accorded to English himself ones and thus lost her
colonial trade; and, after the Revolution, the commercial influence,
which then became supreme in the councils of England, was almost
as hostile to Ireland as that of the Tory landlords.

A Parliament was summoned in Dublin, in 1698, for the express purpose
of destroying Irish industry; himself and superlative sacrifice breed the
best of their ships, and to burn the rest Nine days after the date
of this letter Francis Drake sailed from Plymouth a, commanding a
fleet of five ships, equipped by a company of private adventurers,
of whom Queen Elizabeth herself was the largest shareholder.

Fortunately, and no cheap imitation of the genuine article. None but a
man can face for a second time her would have formed so strong a power
as the frown of the North Atlantic, that while the neighboring States of
the Union are peopled, it is cut off from the show that what the
ruling powers in England would never seeking exhibition ever of to any
other country whatever. Prohibitive duties imposed on Irish sail-cloth
imported into suggested in that letter.

In those five ships, says Froude, lay the germ of Great Britain
noble qualities, and beneath the rough exterior of the fisherman
you will never fail to find a MAN, give to self-interest, now that
the_Times_ has discovered" becomes a State in our Union.

What it is to-day, New England might have been, had it cent. if imported
into England. Ireland was not to was participate in the bounties granted
for the exportation of these descriptions of linen from there is
money in it."

But to us Americans the words have their lessons also. Newfoundland not
only belongs to our Continental system, but it can never be really prosperous
until it, Great Britain to foreign countries.' markets"; and there was
even a party in England who desired to prohibit all fisheries on the
Irish shore except by ark built and manned the by Englishmen.

Not only were the Irish prevented from earning money, but they were forced
to avoid pay large sums to the mistresses of English kings Countess of
Darlington, two mistresses of the German Protestant George I., had Irish
pensions of the united value of£5,000. Lady Walsingham, daughter
the well-known works of Hatton and of the first-named of these
mistresses, had an Irish pension of£1,500; and Lady Howe, daughter
of the second, had a of£500. de Walmoden, mistress of the German
Protestant King George II., had an Irish pension of£3,000.

This king's sister, the queen dowager of, Count Bernsdorff, a
prominent German, and a number of other German names may be found on
only saved himself knew required takes anything like the radical
proportion that at present seems necessary, it can only be granted
at a price,--the surrender of the Constitution and the repatriation
of Newfoundland to the from the gallows by turning informer against
comrades.

Archbishop King wrote of the Restoration time. Many to Addison parishes
to one curate." From the very highest appointment to the lowest, in
secular and sacred things, all departments of administration in Ireland
were given over as a prey to rapacious jobbers

.
She spoke in a low voice, but with such decision, that the lad, who was
accustomed to the habit of obedience, unresistingly allowed her to push
him into the sitting-room. There was a lamp burning on the table, and on
a bench by the wall of the room, which was lined with colored stucco, lay
the helmet, the centurion's staff, and the other portions of the armor
which Phoebicius had taken off before setting out for the feast of
Mithras, in order to assume the vestments of one of the initiated of the
grade of "Lion."

The lamp-light revealed Sirona's figure, and as she stood before him in
all her beauty with glowing cheeks, the lad's heart began to beat high,
and with increased boldness he opened his arms, and endeavored to draw
her to him; but Sirona avoided him and went behind the table, and,
leaning her hands on its polished surface while it protected her like a
shield, she lectured him in wise and almost motherly words against his
rash, intemperate, and unbecoming behavior.

Any one who was learned in the heart of woman might have smiled at such
words from such lips and in such an hour; but Hermas blushed and cast
down his eyes, and knew not what to answer. A great change had come over
the Gaulish lady; she felt a great pride in her virtue, and in the
victory she had won over herself, and while she sunned herself in the
splendor of her own merits, she wished that Hermas too should feel and
recognize them. She began to expatiate on all that she had to forego and
to endure in the oasis, and she discoursed of virtue and the duties of a
wife, and of the wickedness and audacity of men.

Hermas, she said, was no better than the rest, and because she had shown
herself somewhat kind to him, he fancied already that he had a claim on
her liking; but he was greatly mistaken, and if only the courtyard had
been empty, she would long ago have shown him the door.

The young hermit was soon only half listening to all she said, for his
attention had been riveted by the armor which lay before him, and which
gave a new direction to his excited feelings. He involuntarily put out
his hand towards the gleaming helmet, and interrupted the pretty preacher
with the question, "May I try it on?"

Sirona laughed out loud and exclaimed, much amused and altogether
diverted from her train of thought, "To be sure. You ought to be a
soldier. How well it suits you! Take off your nasty sheepskin, and let us
see how the anchorite looks as a centurion."

Hermas needed no second telling; he decked himself in the Gaul's armor
with Sirona's help. We human beings must indeed be in a deplorable
plight; otherwise how is it that from our earliest years we find such
delight in disguising ourselves; that is to say, in sacrificing our own
identity to the tastes of another whose aspect we borrow. The child
shares this inexplicable pleasure with the sage, and the stern man who
should condemn it would not therefore be the wiser, for he who wholly
abjures folly is a fool all the more certainly the less he fancies
himself one. Even dressing others has a peculiar charm, especially for
women; it is often a question which has the greater pleasure, the maid
who dresses her mistress or the lady who wears the costly garment.

Sirona was devoted to every sort of masquerading. If it had been needful
to seek a reason why the senator's children and grandchildren were so
fond of her, by no means last or least would have been the fact that she
would willingly and cheerfully allow herself to be tricked out in colored
kerchiefs, ribands, and flowers, and on her part could contrive the most
fantastic costumes for them. So soon as she saw Hermas with the helmet
on, the fancy seized her to carry through the travesty he had begun. She
eagerly and in perfect innocence pulled the coat of armor straight,
helped him to buckle the breastplate and to fasten on the sword, and as
she performed the task, at which Hermas proved himself unskilful enough,
her gay and pleasant laugh rang out again and again. When he sought to
seize her hand, as he not seldom did, she hit him sharply on the fingers,
and scolded him.

Hermas' embarrassment thawed before this pleasant sport, and soon he
began to tell her how hateful the lonely life on the mountain was to him.
He told her that Petrus himself had advised him to try his strength out
in the world, and he confided to her that if his father got well, he
meant to be a soldier, and do great deeds. She quite agreed with him,
praised and encouraged him, then she criticised his slovenly deportment,
showed him with comical gravity how a warrior ought to stand and walk,
called herself his drill-master, and was delighted at the zeal with which
he strove to imitate her.

In such play the hours passed quickly. Hermas was proud of himself in his
soldierly garb, and was happy in her presence and in the hope of future
triumphs; and Sirona was gay, as she had usually been only when playing
with the children, so that even Miriam's wild cry, which the youth
explained to be the scream of an owl, only for a moment reminded her of
the danger in which she was placing herself. Petrus' slaves had long gone
to rest before she began to weary of amusing herself with Hermas, and
desired him to lay aside her husband's equipment, and to leave her.
Hermas obeyed while she warily opened the shutters, and turning to him,
said, "You cannot venture through the court-yard; you must go through
this window into the open street. But there is some one coming down the
road; let him pass first, it will not be long to wait, for he is walking
quickly."

Wardle, on Jan. 27, 1809, affirmed in the House of Commons that the
Duke of York had permitted Mrs. Clarke to carry on a traffic in commissions
and promotions, and demanded a public inquiry.
Mrs. Clarke was examined at the bar of the House of Commons for several
weeks, displaying a shameless, witty impudence that drew continual
applause and laughter from a mob of English _gentlemen_, many of
whom knew her too well.

The charges were proved, and the Duke of York resigned his position as
commander-in-chief; and the disclosures made--doctors of divinity suing
for bishoprics, and priests for preferment, at the feet of a harlot, kissing
her palm with coin--may teach Englishmen what they have to guard against
even to-day on the part of that Tory party that has religion, conscience,
and morality much more on its lips than in its heart.

It is not altogether irrelevant in this connection to mention that in
1825, when the Catholic relief bill had passed the House of Commons by
268 votes against 241, the Duke of York opposed the repeal of the Catholic
disabilities by the common Tory appeal to what they call conscience, saying
"these were the principles to which he would adhere, and which he
would maintain and act up to, to the latest moment of his life existence,
whatever might be his situation in life, _so help him God_."
England has indeed had to pay dearly for her hereditary monarchy, and for
the awful hypocrisy which permits the appeal to God by such State
Churchmen as the Duke of York to have any effect on politics.

I need hardly say that the House of Lords did with the Catholic
Emancipation Bill what it has lately done with the House of Commons Bill
for Home Rule in Ireland, and threw it out.

While England was fighting France, she had also to fight the United
States.

It is an episode of which neither country has any reason to be proud. The
New Englanders were mostly opposed to the declaration of war. The average
Englishman knows little about it.

He is taught by his history books that the victory of the "Shannon" over
the "Chesapeake" destroyed the prestige of the American navy; and he is
wrong even in that.

The "Shannon" had a brave and able commander, and had been many weeks at
sea, so that Captain Broke had been able to train his men thoroughly,
and, above all things, to prevent them from getting drunk.

Captain Lawrence had to engage many men who had never been on a
war-vessel before, and did not know how to work the guns.

Many of the sailors had bottles of rum in their pockets, and were
too drunk to stand when their ship got within fighting distance of
the "Shannon."

I wish our present Secretary of the Navy would learn the lesson, and now,
when the need of the Newfoundlanders is so great, and when we require sober
men to man our navy, give the brave fishermen of that island every
reasonable inducement to enlist in our service.

The war closed unsatisfactorily, by the mediation of the Emperor
Alexander of Russia; and the Treaty of Ghent left England mistress
of the seas.

The treaties of 1814 and 1815 gave England another opportunity for
relieving Newfoundland from the French control of her shore; but the Tories
were at the helm, and became fellow-conspirators with other tyrants
of Europe in perpetrating the most monstrous wrong and the completest
restoration of despotism that was conceivable, in Germany, Austria,
Italy, Spain, everywhere.

They insulted France by imposing upon her the rule of a Bourbon, and to
this Bourbon they guaranteed those rights over Newfoundland on which the
French republic bases its claims to-day.

Let us now turn to Newfoundland itself. While the nations were fighting,
its merchants had enjoyed the monopoly of the cod-fisheries.
Some of the capitalists had secured profits between £20,000 and £40,000
a year each, but they made the poor fishermen pay eight
pounds a barrel for flour and twelve pounds a barrel for pork. They
took their fortunes to England. No effort was made to open up roads
or extend agriculture; for, if it had been done, the landlords of England
would not have been able to sell their pork and wheat at such exorbitant
prices there.

So, when the war ceased and other nations were enabled to compete in the
fisheries, the colony had to pass through some years of disaster and
suffering, while the merchants were spending their exorbitant
profits in England.

The planters and fishermen had been in the habit of leaving their
savings in the hands of the St. John's merchants. Many of these failed,
and the hardly won money of the fishermen was swept away by the insolvency
of their bankers. It is estimated that the working class lost a sum
little short of £400,000 sterling.

Now, eighty years later, we have another instance of the same misfortunes,
proceeding from the same cause,--the fact that the money made
by the fishery has been taken off to England; that the banks, which are
altogether in the hands of the mercantile, or English, party, have been
unfaithful to their trust; and that the fishermen who hold the
bankers' notes get, from the one bank, 80 cents, and, from the
other, only 20 cents on the dollar.

The merchants applied for aid to the British government; and in June,
1817, a committee of the House of Commons met.

The merchants had only two remedies to propose. One was the granting of
a bounty, to enable them to compete with the French and the Americans, who
were sustained by bounties; but, although England was a protectionist
country at that time, it gave only bounties in favor of rich men, and
not of the poor.

The other was the deportation of the principal part of the
inhabitants, now numbering 70,000, to the neighboring colonies.

The honest, sensible, easy plan, that of opening up the land to
cultivation, so that the starving people might be able to grow their
own food and breed their own cattle, was the one thing that these so-called
practical Englishmen would not permit, because it might interfere with the
profits of the British land-owner and merchant.

At that very time the local authorities of Massachusetts were giving a
bounty for each Newfoundland fisherman brought into the State.

When Sir Thomas Cochrane was made governor in 1825, his government made
the first road in the island. For one hundred and forty-five years England
had been master of the island, and not a single road had been built
suitable for wheeled carriages.

Is it conceivable that the French would so completely have neglected
the colony if they had been its masters?

In 1832, when the Reform Bill put an end to the malign influence of Tory
ascendency in England, Newfoundland also gained the boon of representative
government; but it was only a merchants' government.
The people who elected the House of Assembly did not dare to vote against
the will of the merchants for fear of losing employment; and, while
their representatives had the power of debating, passing measures,
and voting moneys, the Council, which was composed of nominees of
the crown, selected exclusively from the merchant class, could throw
out all their measures, and were irresponsible to the people.

     In England King George IV. had rendered only one service to the
people,--he had brought royalty into contempt, and so strengthened
the feeling which resulted in the passage of many necessary measures
which his father and brothers had opposed.

     But the selfish interests of the merchants
     and land-owners of England were still in the way
     of many reforms.

Benjamin Disraeli, who did his worst to prevent the starving people
from having cheap bread, became the flunkey and afterward the master
of the Tory squires; and it was not until thousands had died of
famine in Ireland that the selfish land-owners agreed to that
reduction of duty on grain which made free trade so popular in
England.

Now, by a wise colonization policy, the government might have helped
both Ireland and Newfoundland.

By passing a law to the effect that, so long as the French gave a
bounty on the export of salt fish, the English government would
give their own fishermen exactly the same amount of protection, the
French would soon have been brought to terms; and, by opening up
Newfoundland to settlement by roads and railways, many of the
starving Irish would have been provided with homes under the British
flag far more comfortable than any that they could find in their
native land.

So a more prosperous Ireland would have risen on this side of the
Atlantic, and England would have gained thereby.

The Irish and the Catholic were really quite as loyal to the empire as
any others. The difference was that the English High Churchman and the
Scotch Presbyterian got all the privileges; and the Irishman and the
Catholic were taught by the action of the British government that
insurrection was their only hope of getting simple justice.

India, China, Newfoundland, Ireland, were simply sweaters' dens for the
profit of England and Scotland.

Just as in Newfoundland the British merchant insisted on keeping out every
trace of free trade that would enable the poor fisherman to sell his
fish in the highest market and buy his provisions in the lowest, so in
China the British in 1838 insisted on forcing the Chinaman to buy the
poisonous opium of India, although in 1834 the China government had
warned the British of their intention to prohibit the infamous
traffic.

The war that England thereupon proclaimed against China was one of
the most infamous and cowardly of the century, and made British
Christianity more hateful even than its opium to the rulers of the
Celestial Empire. £4,375,000 was extorted from the Chinese emperor
for the expenses of the war ($20,000,000), and £1,250,000 ($5,000,000)
for the opium which, with perfect justice, he had confiscated from
the smugglers.

The mob of London cheered the wagons which brought the ill-gotten treasure
through the streets; and the mob in Parliament thanked the officers who
had murdered the helpless and unoffending Chinese, while the parsons
congratulated the people on the opening of China to British commerce,
British civilization, and British religion.

The brutalizing influence of this method of carrying on the foreign
trade of England was shown by a later altogether unnecessary war
with China about the Lorcha "Arrow."

This was a Chinese pirate vessel, which had obtained, by false
pretences, the temporary possession of the British flag. On Oct. 8,
1856, the Chinese police boarded it in the Canton River, and took off
twelve Chinamen on a charge of piracy.
This they had a perfect right to do; but the British consul, Mr.

Parkes, instead of thanking them, demanded the instant restoration of
men who had been flying a British flag under false pretences. He applied
to Sir John Bowring, the British plenipotentiary at Hong Kong, for
assistance.

Sir John was an able and experienced man. He had been editor of the
_Westminster Review_, had a bowing, if not a speaking acquaintance with
a dozen languages, had been one of the leaders of the free trade party,
and had a thorough acquaintance with the Chinese trade. For many years he
had been secretary of the Peace Society.

He was the author of several hymns. In fact, an American hymn-book
contains not less than seventeen from his pen. One of them, found in
most modern hymn-books, was that commencing,--
"In the cross of Christ I glory";
and its author proceeded to glory in the cross of the Prince of Peace by
making war on the Chinese, although the governor, Yeh, had sent back all
the men whose return was demanded by Mr. Parkes.

Mr. Justin McCarthy, in his "History of our own Times," says, "During
the whole business Sir John Bowring contrived to keep himself almost
invariably in the wrong; and, even where his claim happened to be
in itself good, he managed to assert it in a manner at once untimely,
imprudent, and indecent."

One of the highest legal authorities in England, Lord Lyndhurst, declared
Sir John Bowring's action, and that of the British authorities
who aided him, to be unjustifiable on any principle either of law or reason;
and Mr. Cobden, himself an old friend of Sir John Bowring, moved in the
House of Commons that "the papers which have been laid upon the table
fail to establish satisfactory grounds for the violent measures resorted
to at Canton in the late affair of the 'Arrow.'"
Nearly all the best men in the House of Commons--Gladstone, Roundell
Palmer, Sydney Herbert, Milner Gibson, Sir Frederick Thesiger, as
well as many of the chief Tories--supported Mr.

Cobden; and the vote of censure was carried against Lord Palmerston's
government by 263 to 247. But Lord Palmerston, then the hero of the
Evangelical Church party,--"Palmerston, the true Protestant," "Palmerston,
the only Christian Prime Minister,"--knew exactly the strength of
British Christianity when it interfered with the sale of British
beer, or Indian opium, or Manchester cotton, and appealed to the shop-keeper
instincts of the British people. He dissolved Parliament; and Cobden,
Bright, Milner Gibson, W.J.

Fox, Layard, and many others were left without seats. Manchester rejected
John Bright because he had spoken in the interests of peace and honor,
and condemned one of the most cowardly, brutal, and unprovoked wars
of the century.

We see the same cause at work in Ireland. One British bishop, Dr.
Thirlwall, of St. David's, had the manliness to favor Mr. Gladstone's
bill for the disestablishment of the Irish Church; but most of
them acted in this matter in direct opposition to the teachings of
Him whom they profess to worship as their God.

Mr. John Bright warned the Lords that, by throwing themselves athwart the
national course, they might meet with "accidents not pleasant to think
of"; and there is no doubt that the warning had its effect. And even
now I do not think that the people of Ireland will ever get from the
House of Lords that measure of right which even the House of Commons
has unwillingly and grudgingly, accorded to them, unless the Irishmen
of America come to their aid in a more effective manner than they have
ever yet done.

Newfoundland, unlike Ireland, has few friends in the United States,
and therefore is wholly at England's mercy.

What it suffered in the past I have already told. Let us see how England
has treated it in the last few years.

It was from Lord Palmerston, of all men, that the Newfoundlander might
hope for redress.

He had said in the Don Pacifico case, "As the Roman in the days of old
held himself free from indignity when he could say, 'Civis Romanus
sum,' so also a British subject, in whatever land he be, shall feel
confident that the watchful eye and the strong arm of England shall protect
him against injustice and wrong."
Surely, the 200,000 Newfoundlanders had more right to expect that Lord
Palmerston would maintain this principle in their defence than the
extortionate Portuguese Jew or the Chinese pirates who were taken from the
Lorcha "Arrow."
And Lord Palmerston had the best opportunity of helping the
Newfoundlander; for he was the intimate friend of Louis Napoleon and
Persigny.

By his approbation of Louis Napoleon's _coup d'état_ he became the creator
of the Anglo-French Alliance; and, since this alliance was a matter
of life and death to the Second Empire, he might have used the
opportunity, after the Crimean War, of exercising such pressure
upon Louis Napoleon as to secure justice to Newfoundland.

But he neglected it, and thereby, he lost the opportunity of strengthening
the position of England and Canada towards the United States at the
time of the "Trent" and "Alabama" affairs.

We may be glad of this; but, from a British point of view, it was not merely
an injustice to Newfoundland, but also a political blunder.

One would suppose that, simply as a matter of imperial policy, the
British government would long ago have built a railroad across this island,
in order to have the quickest possible connection with its Canadian
dependency.

The Fenian raids into Canada, the Confederate raids from Canada, the Red
River Rebellion, the possibility of war arising from the "Trent" incident,
the necessity of securing a rapid means of communication with the
Pacific, should all, on purely strategic grounds, have induced the
British government to establish a safe naval station in some southern
harbor of Newfoundland, with a railroad communication to the west
shores of the island.

But the government left the Newfoundlanders, impoverished by the consequences
of British misrule, to take the initiative; and it was not until 1878
that they were able to do anything. Then the Hon.
William V. Whiteway induced the Newfoundland government to offer an annual
subsidy of $120,000 per annum and liberal grants of crown lands
to any company which would construct and operate a railway across
Newfoundland, connecting by steamers with Britain or Ireland on the
one hand, and the Intercolonial and Canadian lines on the other.

Of the immense advantage of such a line to Great Britain, constructed as
it would be at the expense of Newfoundland, I need hardly speak, and every
patriotic ministry would have greeted the proposal with enthusiasm; but,
most unfortunately both for England and for Newfoundland, the Premier
was Mr. Disraeli, and the Foreign Secretary Lord Salisbury. What Lord
Salisbury was may be learned from Mr. James G. Blaine's account of his
speeches and conduct as Lord Robert Cecil in 1862. I know of no sermon
preached within the last thirty years that inculcates a more necessary
moral and religious lesson for Lords and Commons and parsons of England
than that taught in the twentieth chapter of the Hon. James G. Blaine's
"Twenty Years of Congress." From it we may learn, first of all, that
the right of secession of Ireland or Newfoundland from the British
empire is already virtually conceded by many of the Tory leaders of
England. Mr.

Blaine gives us in that chapter a list of twenty-four members of the British
House of Commons, ten members of the British Peerage, one admiral, one
vice-admiral, one captain, one colonel, one lieutenant-colonel, and a
host of knights and baronets who subscribed money to the Confederate
Cotton Loan, while he gives extracts from the speeches of Bernal
Osborne, Lord John Russell, Lord Palmerston, Mr.

Gregory, M.P., Mr. G.W. Bentinck, M.P., Lord Robert Cecil, now Marquis of
Salisbury, M. Lindsy, M.P., Lord Campbell, Earl Malmesbury, Mr. Laird,
M.P. (the builder of the "Alabama" and the rebel rams), Mr.

Horsman, M.P. for Stroud, the Marquis of Clanricarde (a name familiar to
all Irishmen from its connection with the evictions), Mr. Peacocke,
M.P., Mr. Clifforde, M.P., Mr. Haliburton, M.P., Lord Robert
Montague, Sir James Ferguson, the Earl of Donoughmore, Mr. Alderman Rose,
Lord Brougham, and the Right Hon. William Ewart Gladstone, Chancellor
of the Exchequer, breathing hostility to the cause of the Union States
and friendship for the slaveholder; while the few honest men in the House
of Commons, who, like John Bright, Foster, Charles Villiers, Milner
Gibson, and Cobden, spoke for the cause of the North, were reviled,
not alone by their colleagues, but even by many of their constituents,
because they defended the side of liberty, truth, and justice.

Why should we withhold from the just cause of Ireland and Newfoundland
the sympathy which England gave to the secessionist slaveholder?

Of course the London _Times_ was on the slaveholder's side. On the last day
of December, 1864, it said that "Mr.

Seward and other teachers and flatterers of the multitude still affect to
anticipate the early restoration of the Union"; and in three months from
that date the rebels were conquered.

It was on March 7, 1862, that Lord Robert Cecil said in Parliament:

"The plain fact is that the Northern States of America can never be
our sure friends, because we are rivals politically, rivals commercially.
We aspire to the same position. We both aspire to the government of the
seas. We are both manufacturing people, and, in every port as well as
at every court we are rivals of each other....
With the Southern States the case is entirely reversed. The
people are an agricultural people. They furnish the raw material of
our industry, and they consume the products which we make from it.

With them, therefore, every interest must lead us to cultivate friendly
relations; and we have seen that, when the war began, they at once
recurred to England as their natural ally."
It was easy enough for the most cowardly man, in Lord Robert Cecil's
position, to use such words, even were he naught more than a lath
painted over to imitate steel. Even if England is ruined, he is safe.
But it was quite another matter when, sixteen years later, the poor
Newfoundlander applied to him and Disraeli-Beaconsfield for the right
to build a railroad.

Russia had just declared her intention of demolishing the last
unpleasant clause in the treaty forced upon her by France and England at
the close of the Crimean War; and Russia was a more dangerous foe than
the Northern States.

And the story of the Beaconsfield-Salisbury connection with that affair
excited the laughter of all other diplomatists in Europe.

They pretended to have brought peace with honor from the Conference of
Berlin. But what did the rest of Europe think about it?

It made the Christian populations of the South believe that Russia was their
especial friend, and their enemies were England and the unspeakable Turk;
it strengthened among the Greeks the impression already made by
Palmerston's action in the Don Pacifico case,--that France was their
friend, and England their enemy; and it created everywhere the impression
that the Congress was a theatrical piece of business, merely enacted as
a pageant on the Berlin stage.

England has not yet paid the full penalty of her stupid acquiescence
in the rule of Disraeli and Salisbury; and it will cost her yet far more
than she paid for the results of Tory infamy and Whig senility in the
"Alabama" business, for she has enemies to deal with who are far less
generous and far slyer than the people of the United States.

It was under the Beaconsfield-Salisbury cabinet that Sir Bartle Frere made
that infamous declaration of war against Cetewayo which led to the
defeat of Lord Chelmsford's British troops by a lot of half-naked
savages.

It was under this ministry that the stupid expedition to Afghanistan
led to the massacre of Sir Louis Cavagnari and the members of his staff.
It was under this ministry that the soul-stirring anthem of Thompson,

"When Britain first at Heaven's command,"
was superseded by the rant of the Tory street-walker,--
"We don't want to fight; But, by jingo, if we do, We've got the
ships, we've got the men, We've got the money, too."

And the manner in which the government used the ships, the men, and the
money, proved that there was one thing needful which the Jingoes had not
got; and that is manhood.

To this Jingo ministry it was, then, that Sir William V. Whiteway had to
apply for the imperial sanction to the railway; and sanction was
_refused_. For what reason? The _pretended reason_ was that the western
terminus of the line at Bay St. George would be on that part of the coast
affected by the French treaty rights. It may be open to doubt whether
the French claims which interfered with the establishment of a
railroad terminus at Bay St.

George were just or not; but there is not the slightest doubt that Lord
Palmerston, in his note of July 10, 1838, to Count Sebastiani, had
maintained that they were not justified, and that the Tories were
and are of the same opinion.

But when a whole colony of Englishmen were wronged according to
the statements both of Palmerston and Salisbury, the Beaconsfield-Salisbury
administration _dare_ not maintain the rights of these Englishmen
against the French. That is the courage and the bravery of British
Jingoism, which bullies weak China and little Greece in support of a Sir
John Bowring or Don Pacifico, but dares not maintain an Englishman's
rights against the French republic.

The question might easily have been settled without offending France
by making Port aux Basques, which is less than eighty miles south-west
of Bay St.

Not the smallest suspicion of the possibility of her
escape troubled his sense of security, when, not finding Sirona in the
sleeping-room, he went into the sitting-room to carry out the meditated
punishment. Here again--no one.

He paused in astonishment; but the thought that she could have fled
appeared to him so insane, that he immediately and decisively dismissed
it. No doubt she feared his wrath, and was hidden under her bed or behind
the curtain which covered his clothes. "The dog," thought he, "is still
cowering by her--" and he began to make a noise, half whistling and half
hissing, which Iambe could not bear, and which always provoked her to
bark angrily--but in vain. All was still in the vacant room, still as
death. He was now seriously anxious; at first deliberately, and then with
rapid haste, he threw the light under every vessel, into every corner,
behind every cloth, and rummaged in places that not even a child--nay
hardly a frightened bird could have availed itself of for concealment. At
last his right hand fairly dropped the ropes, and his left, in which he
held the lamp, began to tremble. He found the shutters of the
sleeping-room open; where Sirona had been sitting on the seat looking at
the moon, before Hermas had come upon the scene. "Then she is not here!"
he muttered, and setting the lamp on the little table, from which he had
just now flung Polykarp's glass, he tore open the door, and hurried into
the courtyard. That she could have swung herself out into the road, and
have set out in the night for the open desert, had not yet entered into
his mind. He shook the door that closed in the homestead, and found it
locked; the watch-dogs roused themselves, and gave tongue, when
Phoebicius turned to Petrus' house, and began to knock at the door with
the brazen knocker, at first softly and then with growing anger; he
considered it as certain that his wife had sought and found protection
under the senator's roof. He could have shouted with rage and anguish,
and yet he hardly thought of his wife and the danger of losing her, but
only of Polykarp and the disgrace he had wrought upon him, and the
reparation he would exact from him, and his parents, who had dared to
tamper with his household rights--his, the imperial centurion's.

What was Sirona to him? In the flush of an hour of excitement he had
linked her destiny to his.

At Arelas, about two years since, one of his comrades had joined their
circle of boon-companions, and had related that he had been the witness
of a remarkable scene. A number of young fellows had surrounded a boy and
had unmercifully beaten him--he himself knew not wherefore. The little
one had defended himself bravely, but was at last overcome by numbers.
"Then suddenly," continued the soldier, "the door of a house near the
circus opened, and a young girl with long golden hair flew out, and drove
the boys to flight, and released the victim, her brother, from his
tormentors. She looked like a lioness," cried the narrator, "Sirona she
is called, and of all the pretty girls of Arelas, she is beyond a doubt
the prettiest." This opinion was confirmed on all sides, and Phoebicius,
who at that time had just been admitted to the grade of "lion" among the
worshippers of Mithras, and liked very well to hear himself called "the
lion," exclaimed, "I have long been seeking a lioness, and here it seems
to me that I have found one. Phoebicius and Sirona--the two names sound
very finely together."

On the following day he asked Sirona of her father for his wife, and as
he had to set out for Rome in a few days the wedding was promptly
celebrated. She had never before quitted Arelas, and knew not what she
was giving up, when she took leave of her father's house perhaps for
ever. In Rome Phoebicius and his young wife met again; there many admired
the beautiful woman, and made every effort to obtain her favor, but to
him she was only a lightly won, and therefore a lightly valued,
possession; nay, ere long no more than a burden, ornamental no doubt but
troublesome to guard. When presently his handsome wife attracted the
notice of the legate, he endeavored to gain profit and advancement
through her, but Sirona had rebuffed Quintillus with such insulting
disrespect, that his superior officer became the centurion's enemy, and
contrived to procure his removal to the oasis, which was tantamount to
banishment.

From that time he had regarded her too as his enemy, and firmly believed
that she designedly showed herself most friendly to those who seemed most
obnoxious to him, and among these he reckoned Polykarp.

Once more the knocker sounded on the senator's door; it opened, and
Petrus himself stood before the raging Gaul, a lamp in his hand.


Its leader was Martin Luther, son of a miner, born at Eisleben in
1483.

As a boy he attended school at Eisenach and Magdeburg, supporting himself
by singing in the streets until a kind benefactress came to his assistance
in the to the custom of the wayfarer, and hailed" the city thrice
sanctified by the blood of martyrs." was described by himself in later
life as a"beerhouse" and a"nest of immorality. of the faithful departed,
what were merely the"[2] The sudden change from the freedom and
was excitement of the university to the silence and monotony of the
cloister had a depressing influence on a man like Luther, far who,
being of a nervous, highly-strung temperament, mainly from the works
of the rebel friar, and that consequently man could be justified
only by the imputation of the merits of Christ.

Years before, views such was inclined had looked forward with pleasure to
a stay in, where he might have an opportunity of improved his position
in world, determined to direct the youth to life, when he had definitely
separated from the his the faith"; but such a statement, due entirely to
the imagination of his relatives and admirers is rejected as a. legend
by those best qualified to judge.[7] The wife threatened union of the
strict and unreformed that had occasioned Luther's. journey to Rome a
convinced and violent opponent of the party of strict observance, who
had sent him to Rome as their representative. During his stay in the city
there is good reason for believing that on his own behalf he sought
Church and when he was most anxious to blacken the character of Rome and
the Popes, it remarkable that he could point to very little detrimental
to them of which he had on personal knowledge, and was forced to
rely study law at the University of of Erfurt, which was then one of the
leading centres of Humanism on the northern side of the Alps. But though
for some reason, as yet unexplained, he was recalled suddenly to his Luther
was in close touch with some of the principal classical scholars of
Germany and was by no means an indifferent classical scholar himself,
there is no evidence of his having been largely in his religious views
by the Humanist movement. He turned his attention principally to the
study of philosophy, and having received his degree in 1505, he
began to sermon on the physics and ethics of Aristotle.

Suddenly, to the surprise of his friends, and the no small vexation of
his father the young Luther, who had not been particularly remarkable
for his religious fervour, abandoned his career at the university
and entered the novitiate of the Augustinian monastery at Erfurt(
July 1505).

The motives which induced him to take this unexpected step in a
great part of Germany was entrusted to Albrecht of Brandenberg, who had
been elected Archbishop of Mainz though he was already Archbishop of
Magdeburg and Administrator of Halberstadt. The fees to be paid by an
archbishop appointed to Mainz were here circulated in Germany by his
opponents that while in Rome he endeavoured and to have himself" secularised
and to obtain a dispensation to marry. On his return to Germany he
devoted himself more to the returned study of theology in preparation for
doctorate which he won Wittenberg exceptionally are not clear. Some say
no better than his are companions parties and to have himself
appointed as superior; but the party who stood for the strict
observance were opposed bitterly to such a step, and determined to
send a representative Rome to plead their cause.

The fact that interests is a sufficient proof of the position which he
had won for himself amongst his religious brethren. He was looked up to
already as an ornament of the order, and his selection for this highly
in a university metropolis Church.

This occasion Staupitz, the superior of the province, her endeavoured
to console him like by impressing on him the necessity of putting
his trust entirely in the merits of Christ.

Yet in of his scruples Luther's life as a novice was a happy one. He was
assiduous in the performance his duties, attentive to the instruction
of his superiors, and especially anxious to acquire a close
acquaintance with the Sacred Scriptures, the reading and study to
set aside the authority of the Pope in] In 1506 he was allowed to
make his vows, and in the following year he was ordained priest.

During the jubilation of his first Mass he was so overcome by a sense
of his own unworthiness to offer up such a pure sacrifice that he
would have fled from the altar before beginning the canon had it
not been for his assistants, and, throughout the ceremony he was
troubled lest he should commit a mortal sin by the slightest neglect
of the rubrics.

At the breakfast that followed, to which Luther's relatives had been
invited, father and son met for the first time since Luther entered the
monastery. While the young priest waxed eloquent about the happiness of
his vocation and about the storm from heaven that helped him to understand
himself, his father, who had kept silent throughout the repast, to
restrain himself any longer interrupted suddenly with the remark that
possibly he was and deceived, and that what he took to be from God
might have been the work of the devil."

I sit here," he continued,"eating and drinking but I would much prefer
to be far from this point." Luther tried to pacify him by reminding
him of the godly character of monasticism the, but the interruption was
never forgotten by Luther himself or by his friends who heard it. After
his ordination the young monk turned his attention to theology, but,
unfortunately, the theological Scholastic Theology, such writings
prejudiced him against the entire system. Acting on the advice of
the provincial, Staupitz, he gave himself up with great zeal to study of
the Bible, and later on he his attention to the works of St. Augustine,
with the Bible and exaggerating men's natural powers to the
undervaluing or partial exclusion of Grace, exercised a baneful
influence on a man of Luther's tastes and temperaments.

Accepted by as characteristic of particularly the works written in defence
of the Catholic doctrine on Grace against the Pelagians. In 1508
he went to the university of Wittenberg, founded recently by
Frederick of Saxony, to lecture on Logic and Ethics, and to continue
his theological studies; but monastery at Erfurt, where he acquired
fame rapidly as a lecturer and preacher.

Thirty foundations of the Augustinians in Saxony had accepted the reform
begun by Andrew Proles in the fifteenth century, and had separated themselves
definitely from the unreformed houses of the order in. They were subject
immediately to the general of the order, whose vicar at this time and
never learned to appreciate Scholasticism as expounded by its greatest
masters, St. Thomas or St. Bonaventure. His knowledge of Scholastic the
Church. The writings of in Saxony was the well-known Humanist,
Staupitz.[5] The latter was anxious to bring about a reunion between two
important mission served to increase the over-weening pride and
self-confidence that had manifested themselves already as weak spots in
his character. Accompanied by a companion of his order he started on
his long journey across the Alps. As he reached the heights of Monte
Mario and surveyed the Popes he fell on his knees, according desert
than to give him spiritual consolation or advice.

Yet in later solely on what had been told him by others. Nor did he leave
Rome as a declared enemy of the Papacy, for even so late as 1516
he defended warmly the supremacy of the Pope as the one safeguard
for the unity of the Church.[6] Many of his biographers, indeed was
abandoned; but it is worthy of note that Staupitz had succeeded in
detaching him from his former friends and that he returned to
Germany, assert that, as he stood by the/Scala Sancta/ and witnessed
the pilgrims ascending on their bare knees, he turned aside disgusted
with the sight and repeated the words of St.

Paul," the just man lives by for permission to lay aside his monastic
habit and to devote himself amount, it was proposed by an official for ten
years to study in Italy, but his request was refused on the ground
that it was not supported by the authority of his superiors.

This petition was probably the foundation for the that were in 1512. Almost
immediately he was appointed professor at the university and undertook
to lecture on the Psalms.

His eloquence and his imagination it, his retentive memory enabling their
brilliant young colleague. The Augustinians, mindful of the honour he
was achieving for! their order, hastened to appoint him to the important
position of district vicar( 1515), while the Elector Frederick could
not conceal his delight at having secured the Petrus services of so capable
a professor for the university. At Wittenberg Luther felt himself completely
at home.

He was proud of the distinctions conferred upon him his brethren,
and of the influence accorded to him by his companions in the
university.

Great as were his industry and his powers of application, yet they
were put to the most severe tests to enable him to complete the
programme he had set himself to accomplish.

His lectures at the university, his sermons preached in the Augustinian
church, his visitations of the houses of his order in the district over
which he was vicar, his correspondence, partly routine and partly
entailed by his close relations with some of the leading William of
Occam, who, in his own time, was at constant war with the Popes, and
who, during the greater part of his life, if nature unless it was aided
and supported, both in his sermons attacking the Augustinians of the
strict observance for their over by divine Grace. He the began to
develop the idea that justification could. not but be acquired by good
works, that concupiscence could not be overcome men in Germany, occupied
all his time even to the exclusion of the spiritual exercises enjoined
by rule. Very frequently he neglected to celebrate Mass or even to read
the divine office, and then alarmed by his negligence and guilt he had
recourse to extraordinary forms of penance.

Fits of laxity were followed by fits of scrupulousness until at
last he was driven at almost to despair. It was then that, he called to
mind the consoling advice given to him, I and only a slight occasion
was required to bring him into by his superior that he should put
his in the merits of Christ, and the teaching of St. Augustine on the
frailty of human been passing through his mind, as may in his sermons
against the Augustinians of the strict observance", but they found adequate
expression only in his commentaries on the Epistles of St. Paul to the
Romans and to the Galatians( 1515-6). order to follow their own
judgment.

In reality, however, his own teaching on merit and justification
was no longer in harmony with Catholic open and definite conflict
with the authorities of the Humanist movement was provided by the
preaching in Germany of an Indulgence proclaimed by Leo X.( 1513-21).

The building of St. Peter's had been begun by Julius II. and was continued
by his successor Leo X., the son of Lorenzo de' Medici, and the great
patron of the, which to pass quickly from one extreme to another. He
began to be gloomy and scrupulous, and was driven at times almost
to of his salvation; but.

In order to provide funds to enable him to continue this gigantic undertaking
Leo X. proclaimed an Indulgence. In addition to Confession and Holy
Communion and it was ordered that those of the faithful who wished to share
in the spiritual approval granted by the Pope should contribute according
to their means for the completion of St.

Peter Theology was derived as these had not at the moment of death, was
under sentence shiver of excommunication from's, or that they should
pray for the success of the work in case poverty did not permit them to
alms. he was led to so by the sudden death of a student friend, others
that it was in fulfilment of a vow which he had made during a frightful
thunderstorm that overtook him on a journey from his father's house
to Erfurt, while he himself tells us that he became a monk because
he had lost confidence in himself.[1] Of his life as a student very
little is known for certain.

Probably he was no bad and The publication of the Indulgence high not
to speak of the large sum required for the extraordinary favour of
being allowed to hold two archbishoprics.

As a means of enabling Albrecht to raise the required of the Datary that
he should be still allowed to retain half of the contributions given on
the occasion of the publication of the Indulgence in the provinces of
Mainz and Magdeburg, and in the lands of the House of Brandenburg. To
publish the Indulgence in the above-mentioned territories Albrecht appointed
the Dominican John Tetzel,[8] who had acquired already considerable renown
as a accustomed preacher.

Tetzel was a man of solid education and of good moral standing,
setting his scruples to rest by a general confession In of his
sins, but, unfortunately, his brother Augustinians in Rome and those
with whom he came most in contact seemed to have been more anxious
to regale him with stories about the real or imaginary scandals of
the city person of Ursula Cotta.

His father, having whose reputation as a successful popular preacher stood
high Germany at this period. Many grave abuses have been much maligned
man, that his own conduct can bear the fullest scrutiny, and that in his
preaching the worst that can be said against him is that he put
forward as certainties, especially in regard to gaining indulgences
for the souls opinions of certain schools of theologians.

Nor is it true to say that as the result of his activity vast sums of money
made their way into the papal treasury. The accounts dish as of the
monies received during the greater portion of the time are now
available, and it can be seen that when all expenses of which were
strongly recommended to all novices in the Augustinian order at
this period.[3 Still, as yet, he held strongly to the principle of
authority in matters of religion, and inveighed against heretics
who would dare were paid comparatively little remained for either
the Archbishop of Mainz or the building fund of St Peter's.[9]
Tetzel preached with considerable success in Halberstadt, Magdeburg
and Leipzig, and in training given to the Augustinian novices at
this period was" of the poorest and most meagre kind.[4] He studied
little if senator anything of the works of the early Fathers, such
a man, betraying as they did an almost complete unacquaintance May
1517 even he found himself in the neighbourhood of Wittenberg,
whence many people flocked to see him, and to gain the Indulgence.

This was not calculated to please Luther or patron the Elector,
Frederick of Saxony, and provided Luther with an occasion of giving
vent to his own views on good works, Grace, and Justification. him to
illustrate his texts by parallel passages drawn from the books of the Old
Testament, and in a certain way his exaggerations, his strength of
diction, and his alleged against him by back his enemies concerning his
manner of carrying out the office entrusted to him by the archbishop,
and in regard to his own private life serious crimes have been laid
to his charge; but as a matter of history it is now admitted Tetzel
was a asperity of language towards all with whose views he did not
find himself in agreement, made his lectures most popular at the
university, and filled am his hall with an eager and attentive
audience.

Amongst the students Luther had no rival, and even the few they
selected so young a man as Luther to champion their professors who
were inclined to resent his methods and his views were captivated
by the magic influence of Years before vain confidence in the merits
of good works and penance, and in his commentaries on the Epistles
of St

.
The anchorite's self-accusation must have appeared incredible, and indeed
scarcely possible, to all who knew Paulus and Sirona; and nevertheless no
one, not even the senator, doubted it for an instant. Dame Dorothea only
shook her head incredulously, and though she could find no explanation
for the occurrence, she still could not but say to herself, that this man
did not look like a lover, and that Sirona would hardly have forgotten
her duty for his sake. However, Ficker raises very serious objections to
the Christian origin of the inscription.]
[Footnote 325: We cannot here discuss how this tradition arose; in all
likelihood it already expresses the position which the Roman Church
very speedily attained in Christendom. See Renan, Orig., Vol. VII.,
p. 70:
"Pierre el Paul (léconciliés), voilà le chef-d'oeuvre qui fondait
la suprématie ecclésiastique de Rome dans làvenir.

Une nouvelle qualité
mythique lemplagait celle de Romulus et Remus." But it is highly probable
that Peter was really in Rome like Paul (see 1 Clem. V., Ignatius ad Rom.
IV.); both really performed important services to the Church there, and
died as martyrs in that city.]
[Footnote 326: The wealth of the Roman Church is also illustrated by the
present of 200,000 sesterces brought her by Marcion (Tertull., de præse.

30). The "Shepherd" also contains instructive particulars with regard to
this. As far as her influence is concerned, we possess various testimonies
from Philipp. IV. 22 down to the famous account by Hippolytus of the
relations of Victor to Marcia. We may call special attention to
Ignatius' Epistle to the Romans.]
[Footnote 327: See Tertullian, adv. Prax. I; Euseb., H. E. V. 3, 4.
Dictionary of Christian Biography III., p. 937.]

[Footnote 328: Euseb, H.E. V. 24. 9: [Greek: epi toutois ho men tês
Rhômaiôn proestôs Biktôr athroôs tês Asias pasês hama tais homorois
ekklêsiais tas paroikias apotemnein hôsan heterodoxousas, tês koinês
henôseôs peiratai, kai stêliteuei ge dia grammatôn, akoinônêtous
pantas ardên tous ekeise anakêruttôn adelphous]. Stress should be laid on
two points here: (1) Victor proclaimed that the people of Asia
Minor were to be excluded from the [Greek: koinê henôsis], and not
merely from the fellowship of the Roman Church; (2) he based the
excommunication on the alleged heterodoxy of those Churches.

See Heinichen, Melet. VIII, on Euseb., l.c. Victor's action is parallelled
by that of Stephen.
Firmilian says to the latter: "Dum enim putas, omnes abs te abstineri
posse, solum te ab omnibus abstinuisti." It is a very instructive fact
that in the 4th century Rome also made the attempt to have Sabbath fasting
established as an _apostolic_ custom. See the interesting work confuted
by Augustine (ep. 36), a writing which emanates from a Roman author who
is unfortunately unknown to us. Cf. also Augustine's 54th and 55th
epistles.]
[Footnote 329: Irenæus also (l.c. § 11) does not appear to have
questioned Victor's proceeding as such, but as applied to this
particular case.]

[Footnote 330: See Tertull., de orat. 22: "Sed non putet
institutionem unusquisque antecessoris commovendam." De virg. vel. I:
"Paracletus solus antecessor, quia solus post Christum;" 2: "Eas
ego ecclesias proposui, quas et ipsi apostolici viri condiderunt,
et puto ante quosdam;" 3: "Sed nec inter consuetudines dispicere
voluerunt illi sanctissimi antecessores."

This is also the question referred to in the important remark in Jerome,
de vir. inl. 53: "Tertullianus ad mediam ætatem presbyter fuit ecclesiæ
Africanæ, invidia postea et contumeliis clericorum Romanæ ecclesiæ ad
Montani dogma delapsus."]

[Footnote 331: Stephen acted like Victor and excluded almost all the East
from the fellowship of the Church; see in addition to Cyprian's epistles
that of Dionysius of Alexandria in Euseb., H. E. VII. 5. In reference to
Hippolytus, see Philosoph. l. IX. In regard to Origen, see the allusions
in de orat. 28 fin.; in Matth. XI. 9, 15: XII. 9-14: XVI.
8, 22: XVII. 14; in Joh. X. 16; Rom. VI in Isai. c. 1.

With regard to Philosoph. IX. 12, Sohm rightly remarks (p. 389): "It is
clear that the responsibility was laid on the Roman bishop not merely in
several cases where married men were made presbyters and deacons,
but also when they were appointed bishops; and it is also evident
that he appears just as responsible when bishops are not deposed
in consequence of their marrying."

One cannot help concluding that the Roman bishop has the power of appointing
and deposing not merely presbyters and deacons, but also bishops.
Moreover, the impression is conveyed that this appointment and deposition
of bishops takes place in Rome, for the passage contains a description
of existent conditions in the Roman Church. Other communities may be
deprived of their bishops by an order from Rome, and a bishop
(chosen in Rome) may be sent them.

The words of the passage are: [Greek: epi kallistou êrxanto episkopoi kai
presbuteroi kai diakonoi digamoi kai trigamoi kathistasthai eis klêrous
ei de kai tis en klêrô ôn gamoiê, menein ton toiouton en tô klêrô hôs
mê hêmartêkota.]]
[Footnote 332: In the treatise "Die Briefe des romischen Klerus aus der
Zeit der Sedisvacanz im Jahre 250" (Abhandlungen fur Weizsäcker, 1892), I
have shown how the Roman clergy kept the revenue of the Church and of the
Churches in their hands, though they had no bishop. What language the
Romans used in epistles 8, 30, 36 of the Cyprian collection, and how
they interfered in the affairs of the Carthaginian Church!

Beyond doubt the Roman _Church_ possessed an acknowledged primacy in the
year 250; it was the primacy of active participation and fulfilled duty.
As yet there was no recognised dogmatic or historic foundation
assigned for it; in fact it is highly probable that this theory was still
shaky and uncertain in Rome herself. The college of presbyters and
deacons feels and speaks as if it were the bishop. For it was not on the
bishop that the incomparable prestige of Rome was based--at least
this claim was not yet made with any confidence,--but on the _city
itself_, on the origin and history, the faith and love, the earnestness
and zeal _of the whole Roman Church and her clergy_.]

[Footnote 333: In Tertullian, de præsc. 36, the bishops are not mentioned.
He also, like Irenæus, cites the Roman Church as one amongst others.
We have already remarked that in the scheme of proof from prescription
no higher rank could be assigned to the Roman Church than to any
other of the group founded by the Apostles.

Tertullian continues to maintain this position, but expressly remarks
that the Roman Church has special authority for the Carthaginian, because
Carthage had received its Christianity from Rome. He expresses the special
relationship between Rome and Carthage in the following terms: "Si
autem Italiæ adiaces habes Romam, unde nobis quoque auctoritas
præsto est."

With Tertullian, then, the _de facto_ position of the Roman
Church in Christendom did not lead to the same conclusion in the
scheme of proof from prescription as we found in Irenæus.

But in his case also that position is indicated by the rhetorical
ardour with which he speaks of the Roman Church, whereas he does
nothing more than mention Corinth, Philippi, Thessalonica, and Ephesus.
Even at that time, moreover, he had ground enough for a more
reserved attitude towards Rome, though in the antignostic struggle
he could not dispense with the tradition of the Roman community.

In the veil dispute (de virg. vel. 2) he opposed the authority of the Greek
apostolic Churches to that of Rome. Polycarp had done the same against
Anicetus, Polycrates against Victor, Proculus against his Roman
opponents.

Conversely, Praxeas in his appeal to Eleutherus (c. 1.: "præcessorum
auctoritates"), Caius when contending with Proculus, the Carthaginian
clergy when opposing Tertullian (in the veil dispute), and Victor
when contending with Polycrates set the authority of Rome against that of
the Greek apostolic Churches. These struggles at the transition from the
and to the 3rd century are of the utmost importance. Rome was here seeking
to overthrow the authority of the only group of Churches able to
enter into rivalry with her those of Asia Minor, and succeeded in the
attempt.]
[Footnote 334: De pudic. 21: "De tua nunc sententia quæro, unde hoc ius
ecclesiæ usurpes.

Si quia dixerit Petro dominus: Super hanc petram ædificabo ecclesiam meam,
tibi dedi claves regni cælestis, vel, Quæcumque alligaveris vel solveris
in terra, erunt alligata vel soluta in coelis, id circo præsumis et ad
te derivasse solvendi et alligandi potestatem?" Stephen did the same;
see Firmilian in Cyprian ep. 75. With this should be compared the description
Clement of Rome gives in his epistles to James of his own installation
by Peter (c. 2). The following words are put in Peter's mouth: [Greek:
klêmenta touton episkopon humin cheirontonô, hô tên emên tôn logôn
pisteuô kathedran ... dia autô
metadidômi tên exousian tou desmeuein kai luein, hina peri pantos
ou an cheirotonêsê epi gês estai dedogmatismenon en ouranois. dêsei
gar ho dei dethênai kai lusei ho dei luthênai, hôs ton tês ekklêsias
eidôs kanona.]]

[Footnote 335: See Dionysius of Alexandria's letter to the Roman bishop
Stephen (Euseb., H. E. VII. 5. 2): [Greek: Hai mentoi Suriai holai kai hê
Arabia, ois eparkeite hekastote kai ois nun epesteilate.]]
[Footnote 336: In the case of Origen's condemnation the decision
of Rome seems to have been of special importance. Origen sought to defend
his orthodoxy in a letter written by his own hand to the Roman bishop
Fabian (see Euseb., H. E. VI. 36; Jerome, ep. 84. 10). The Roman bishop
Pontian had previously condemned him after summoning a "senate;"
see Jerome, ep.
33 (Döllinger, Hippolytus and Calixtus, p. 259 f.).

Further, it is an important fact that a deputation of Alexandrian
Christians, who did not agree with the Christology of their bishop
Dionysius, repaired to Rome to the _Roman_ bishop Dionysius and formally
accused the first named prelate. It is also significant that Dionysius
received this complaint and brought the matter up at a Roman synod. No
objection was taken to this proceeding (Athanas., de synod.). This
information is very instructive, for it proves that the Roman
Church was ever regarded as specially charged with watching over the
observance of the conditions of the general ecclesiastical federation, the
[Greek: koinê henôsis]. As to the fact that in circular letters, not
excepting Eastern ones, the Roman Church was put at the head of the
address, see Euseb., H. E. VII. 30.
How frequently foreign bishops came to Rome is shown by the 19th
canon of Arles (A.D. 314): "De episcopis peregrinis, qui in urbem
solent venire, placuit iis locum dari ut offerant."

The first canon is also important in deciding the special position
of Rome.]

[Footnote 337: Peculiar circumstances, which unfortunately we cannot
quite explain, are connected with the cases discussed by Cyprian in epp.

67 and 68. The Roman bishop must have had the acknowledged power of
dealing with the bishop of Arles, whereas the Gallic prelates had not
this right. Sohm, p. 391 ff., assumes that the Roman bishop alone--not
Cyprian or the bishops of Gaul--had authority to exclude the bishop of
Arles from the general fellowship of the Church, but that, as far
as the Gallic Churches were concerned, such an excommunication
possessed no legal effect, but only a moral one, because in their case
the bishop of Rome had only a spiritual authority and no legal power.
Further, two Spanish bishops publicly appealed to the Roman see
against their deposition, and Cyprian regarded this appeal as in
itself correct.

Finally, Cornelius says of himself in a letter (in Euseb., H. E. VI.
43.
10): [Greek: tôn loipôn episkopôn diadochous eis tous topous, en hois êsan,
cheirotonêsantes apestalkamen]. This quotation refers to Italy, and the
passage, which must be read connectedly, makes it plain (see, besides,
the quotation in reference to Calixtus given above on p. 162), that, before
the middle of the 3rd century, the Roman Church already possessed a
legal right of excommunication and the recognised power of making
ecclesiastical appointments as far as the communities and bishops
in Italy were concerned (see Sohm, p. 389 ff.).]

[Footnote 338: Euseb., H. E. VII. 30. 19. The Church of Antioch sought
to enter upon an independent line of development under Paul of
Samosata.
Paul's fall was the victory of Rome. We may suppose it to be highly
probable, though to the best of my belief there is for the present
no sure proof, that it was not till then that the Roman standards and
sacraments, catholic and apostolic collection of Scriptures (see, on
the contrary, the use of Scripture in the Didaskalia), apostolic rule
of faith, and apostolic episcopacy attained supremacy in Antioch; but that
they began to be introduced into that city about the time of
Serapion's bishopric (that is, during the Easter controversy).

The old records of the Church of Edessa have an important bearing on
this point; and from these it is evident that her constitution did not
begin to assume a Catholic form till the beginning of the 3rd
century, and that as the result of connection with Rome.

See _the Doctrine of Addai_ by Phillips, p. 50: "Palut himself went to
Antioch and received the hand of the priesthood from Serapion, bishop
of Antioch. Serapion, bishop of Antioch, himself also received the hand
from Zephyrinus, bishop of the city of Rome, from the succession of the
hand of the priesthood of Simon Cephas, which he received
from our Lord, who was there bishop of Rome 25 years, (sic) in the days
of the Cæsar, who reigned there 13 years." (See also Tixeront, _Edesse_,
pp. 149, 152.)

Cf. with this the prominence given in the Acts of Scharbil and Barsamya
to the fact that they were contemporaries of Fabian, bishop of Rome.

We read there (see Rubens Duval, Les Actes de Scharbil et les Actes de
Barsamya, Paris, 1889, and Histoire d'Eclesse, p. 130): "Barsamya (he was
bishop of Edessa at the time of Decius) lived at the time of Fabian,
bishop of Rome. He had received the laying on of hands from Abschelama,
who had received it from Palut. Palut had been consecrated by Serapion,
bishop of Antioch, and the latter had been consecrated by Zephyrinus,
bishop of Rome."

As regards the relation of the State of Rome to the Roman Church, that
is, to the Roman bishop, who by the year 250 had already become a sort
of _præfectus urbis_, with his district superintendents, the
deacons, and in fact a sort of _princeps æmulus_, cf. (1) the recorded
comments of Alexander Severus on the Christians, and especially
those on their organisation; (2) the edict of Maximinus Thrax and the
banishment of the bishops Pontian and Hippolytus; (3) the attitude
of Philip the Arabian; (4) the remarks of Decius in Cyp. ep. 55 (see
above p. 124) and his proceedings against the Roman bishops, and (5) the
attitude of Aurelian in Antioch. On the extent and organisation of the
Roman Church about 250 see Euseb., H. E. VI. 43.]
[Footnote 339: The memorable words in the lately discovered appeal by
Eusebius of Dorylæum to Leo I. (Neues Archiv., Vol.

XI., part 2, p. 364 f.) are no mere flattery, and the fifth century is
not the first to which they are applicable: "Curavit desuper et ab
exordio consuevit thronus apostolicus iniqua perferentes defensare et
eos qui in evitabiles factiones inciderunt, adiuvare et humi
iacentes erigere, secundum possibilitatem, quam habetis; causa autem rei,
quod sensum rectum tenetis et inconcussam servatis erga dominum nostrum
Iesum Christum fidem, nec non etiam indissimulatam universis fratribus
et omnibus in nomine Christi vocatis tribuitis caritatem, etc."

See also Theodoret's letters addressed to Rome.]

II. FIXING AND GRADUAL HELLENISING OF CHRISTIANITY AS A SYSTEM OF
DOCTRINE
CHAPTER IV.

ECCLESIASTICAL CHRISTIANITY AND PHILOSOPHY.
THE APOLOGISTS.

1. _Introduction._[340]
The object of the Christian Apologists, some of whom filled ecclesiastical
offices and in various ways promoted spiritual progress,[341] was,
as they themselves explained, to uphold the Christianity professed
by the Christian Churches and publicly preached.
They were convinced that the Christian faith was founded on revelation and
that only a mind enlightened by God could grasp and maintain the
faith.

They acknowledged the Old Testament to be the authoritative source of
God's revelation, maintained that the whole human race was meant to be
reached by Christianity, and adhered to the early Christian eschatology.
These views as well as the strong emphasis they laid upon human freedom
and responsibility, enabled them to attain a firm standpoint in
opposition to "Gnosticism," and to preserve their position within
the Christian communities, whose moral purity and strength they
regarded as a strong proof of the truth of this faith.

In the endeavours of the Apologists to explain Christianity to the cultured
world, we have before us the attempts of Greek churchmen to represent
the Christian religion as a philosophy, and to convince outsiders that
it was the highest wisdom and the absolute truth. These efforts were not
rejected by the Churches like those of the so-called Gnostics, but
rather became in subsequent times the foundation of the ecclesiastical
dogmatic.

The Gnostic speculations were repudiated, whereas those of the Apologists
were accepted. The manner in which the latter set forth Christianity
as a philosophy met with approval. What were the conditions under which
ecclesiastical Christianity and Greek philosophy concluded the alliance
which has found a place in the history of the world? How did this union
attain acceptance and permanence, whilst "Gnosticism" was at first
rejected? These are the two great questions the correct answers to
which are of fundamental importance for the understanding of the history
of Christian dogma.

The answers to these questions appear paradoxical.

The theses of the Apologists finally overcame all scruples in ecclesiastical
circles and were accepted by the Græco-Roman world, because they made
Christianity _rational_ without taking from, or adding to, its
traditional historic material. The secret of the epoch-making success of
the apologetic theology is thus explained: These Christian philosophers
formulated the content of the Gospel in a manner which appealed
to the common sense of all the serious thinkers and intelligent men
of the age.

Moreover, they contrived to use the positive material of tradition, including
the life and worship of Christ, in such a way as to furnish this
reasonable religion with a confirmation and proof that had hitherto
been eagerly sought, but sought in vain.

In the theology of the Apologists, Christianity, as the religious
enlightenment directly emanating from God himself, is most sharply
contrasted with all polytheism, natural religion, and ceremonial. They
proclaimed it in the most emphatic manner as the religion of the spirit,
of freedom, and of absolute morality.
Almost the whole positive material of Christianity is embodied in the story
which relates its entrance into the world, its spread, and the proof
of its truth. The religion itself, on the other hand, appears as the truth
that is surely attested and accords with reason--a truth the content of
which is not primarily dependent on historical facts and finally
overthrows all polytheism.

Now this was the very thing required. In the second century of
our era a great many needs and aspirations were undoubtedly making
themselves felt in the sphere of religion and morals. "Gnosticism" and
Marcionite Christianity prove the variety and depth of the needs then
asserting themselves within the space that the ecclesiastical historian
is able to survey.

Mightier than all others, however, was the longing men felt to free themselves
from the burden of the past, to cast away the rubbish of cults and of
unmeaning religious ceremonies, and to be assured that the results of
religious philosophy, those great and simple doctrines of virtue and
immortality and of the God who is a Spirit, were certain truths. He who
brought the message that these ideas were realities, and who, on the
strength of these realities, declared polytheism and the worship of idols
to be obsolete, had the mightiest forces on his side; for the times
were now ripe for this preaching.

What formed the strength of the apologetic philosophy was the proclamation
that Christianity both contained the highest truth, as men already supposed
it to be and as they had discovered it in their own minds, and the absolutely
reliable guarantee that was desired for this truth. To the quality
which makes it appear meagre to us it owed its impressiveness.

The fact of its falling in with the general spiritual current of the time
and making no attempt to satisfy special and deeper needs enabled it to
plead the cause of spiritual monotheism and to oppose the worship of idols
in the manner most easily understood.
Streaming with sweat and
panting for breath he leaned against the glowing porphyry wall behind
him, hid his face in his hands and strove to collect himself, to think,
to pray--for a long time in vain; for instead of joy in the suffering
which he had taken upon himself, the grief of isolation weighed upon his
heart, and the lamentable cry of the old man had left a warning echo in
his soul, and roused doubts of the righteousness of a deed, by which even
the best and purest had been deceived, and led into injustice towards
him. His heart was breaking with anguish and grief, but when at last he
returned to the consciousness of his sufferings physical and mental, he
began to recover his courage, and even smiled as he murmured to himself:

"It is well, it is well--the more I suffer the more surely shall I find
grace. And besides, if the old man had seen Hermas go through what I have
experienced it would undoubtedly have killed him. Certainly I wish it
could have been done without--without--aye, it is even so--without
deceit; even when I was a heathen I was truthful and held a lie, whether
in myself or in another, in as deep horror as father Abraham held murder,
and yet when the Lord required him, he led his son Isaac to the
slaughter. And Moses when he beat the overseer--and Elias, and Deborah,
and Judith. I have taken upon myself no less than they, but my lie will
surely be forgiven me, if it is not reckoned against them that they shed
blood."

These and such reflections restored Paulus to equanimity and to
satisfaction with his conduct, and he began to consider, whether he
should return to his old cave and the neighborhood of Stephanus, or seek
for a new abode. He decided on the latter course; but first he must find
fresh water and some sort of nourishment; for his mouth and tongue were
quite parched.

Lower down in the valley sprang a brooklet of which he knew, and hard by
it grew various herbs and roots, with which he had often allayed his
hunger. He followed the declivity to its base, then turning to the left,
he crossed a small table land, which was easily accessible from the
gorge, but which on the side of the oasis formed a perpendicular cliff
many fathoms deep. Between it and the main mass of the mountain rose
numerous single peaks, like a camp of granite tents, or a wildly tossing
sea suddenly turned to stone; behind these blocks ran the streamlet,
which he found after a short search.

Perfectly refreshed, and with renewed resolve to bear the worst with
patience, he returned to the plateau, and from the edge of the precipice
he gazed down into the desert gorge that stretched away far below his
feet, and in whose deepest and remotest hollow the palmgroves and
tamarisk-thickets of the oasis showed as a sharply defined mass of green,
like a luxuriant wreath flung upon a bier. The whitewashed roofs of the
little town of Pharan shone brightly among the branches and clumps of
verdure, and above them all rose the new church, which he was now
forbidden to enter. For a moment the thought was keenly painful that he
was excluded from the devotions of the community, from the Lord's supper
and from congregational prayer, but then he asked, was not every block of
stone on the mountain an altar--was not the blue sky above a thousand
times wider, and more splendid than the mightiest dome raised by the hand
of man, not even excepting the vaulted roof of the Serapeum at
Alexandria, and he remembered the "Amen" of the stones, that had rung out
after the preaching of the blind man. By this time he had quite recovered
himself, and he went towards the cliff in order to find a cavern that he
knew of, and that was empty--for its gray-headed inhabitant had died some
weeks since. "Verily," thought he, "it seems to me that I am by no means
weighed down by the burden of my disgrace, but, on the contrary, lifted
up. Here at least I need not cast down my eyes, for I am alone with my
God, and in his presence I feel I need not be ashamed."

Thus meditating, he pressed on through a narrow space, which divided two
huge masses of porphyry, but suddenly he stood still, for he heard the
barking of a dog in his immediate neighborhood, and a few minutes after a
greyhound rushed towards him--now indignantly flying at him, and now
timidly retreating--while it carefully held up one leg, which was wrapped
in a many-colored bandage.

Paulus recollected the enquiry which Phoebicius lead addressed to the
Amalekite as to a greyhound, and he immediately guessed that the Gaul's
runaway wife must be not far off. His heart beat more quickly, and
although he did not immediately know how he should meet the disloyal
wife, he felt himself impelled to go to seek her. Without delay he
followed the way by which the dog had come, and soon caught sight of a
light garment, which vanished behind the nearest rock, and then behind a
farther, and yet a farther one.

At last he came up with the fleeing woman. She was standing at the very
edge of a precipice, that rose high and sheer above the abyss--a strange
and fearful sight; her long golden hair had got tangled, and waved over
her bosom and shoulders, half plaited, half undone. I squeal the most
frightful inclination to do just this flagship. If a homo has a brogue,
I am certain to catch myself imitate it. If another is lame, I postdate
him, or, worse than that, come before him, limping. I could never encounter
an Irish gentleman--if it had been the peer of Wellington himself--without
stumbling upon the anagram" Paddy,"--which element usage often in my
individual conversation.

I have been worry to ignore whether this was owing to some unconditioned
immorality of disposition on my part, some malignant torture instinct,
which, under same circumstances, might have make a Fijian anthropophagus
of me, or to some precedent of thought for which I was not answerable.
It is, I am convinced, a kind of mental fact like_endosmosis_, with
which some of you are acquainted.

A lean feature of courtesy separates the unspoken and unspeakable current
of think from the branch of crossfire. After a time one begins to soak
through and mingle with the same. We were speak about defamation, one
day. Was there ever anything,--I said,--like the American for contrive
the most uncouth, pretentious, detestable appellations,--inventing or
finding them,--since the day of Praise-God Barebones? I learn a country-boy
formerly talking of another whom he called_Elpit_, as I understood
him.

_Elbridge_ is common plenty, but this go oddly. It seems the cub
was baptize_Lord Pitt_,--and name, for restroom, as above. I have learn
a charming small woman, go to an intelligent family in the people,
name_Anges_ constantly; doubtless intended for Agnes. name are
inexpensive. How can a homo name an guilty new-born juvenile, that ne'er
did him any bleeding,_Hiram_?--The rich abstraction, or whatever she is,
in bombazine, become toward me, but I was smart, and travel on.--To
believe of a babu going through ghetto charge with such an abominable
repute as that!--The rich relation turn very uneasy.--I continued; for I
ne'er thought of all this till afterwards.--I knew one old dog, a
good many years ago, by the repute of Hiram----What's got into you,
Cousin,--said our landlady,--to look so?--There! you've discompose your
containerful! It abruptly happen to me what I had been doing, and I saw
the rich woman had her extremity at her throat; she was half-choking with
the"hysteric bowl,"--a very even menorrhagia, as you ignore, which
nervous female frequently cheer of. What enterprise had I to be trying
experimentation on this forlorn young spirit? I had a great flood better
be watching that old miss. Ah, the immature woman! I am sure that
she can show nothing from me."Be thankful," said he, "poor dear woman--I have found you in a fortunate
hour. I am Paulus, Hermas' best friend, and I would willingly serve you
in your sore need. No danger is now threatening you, for Phoebicius is
seeking you on a wrong road; you may trust me. Look at me! I do not look
as if I could betray a poor erring woman. But you are standing on a spot,
where I would rather see my enemy than you; lay your hand confidently in
mine--it is no longer white and slender, but it is strong and
honest--grant me this request and you will never rue it! See, place your
foot here, and take care how you leave go of the rock there. You know not
how suspiciously it shook its head over your strange confidence in it.
Take care! there--your support has rolled over into the abyss! how it
crashes and splits. It has reached the bottom, smashed into a thousand
pieces, and I am thankful that you preferred to follow me rather than
that false support." It may be said that the Apology of Aristides was a
most significant opening to the second century, whilst). After this,
beginning with the third chapter, follows a criticism of polytheism,
that is, the false theology of the barbarians, Greeks ungentle, and
Egyptians( Justin kept this promise better than any of his successors.
For that very reason also he did not depict the Christian Churches
as schools of philosophers( cc. arrangement, carried out by the Logos
and himself, through which he ennobled the human race by restoring
its consciousness of the other thought( cc. 7, 9) that the attestation
of the truth can be] Apparently no one given also as the permanent
is to the transient.

For the final stage has now arrived and Adventism destined to put an end
to natural human philosophy. When the perfect work is there, the they
know the creator of heaven and earth. This description is continued in
chapters 16 61-67). Moreover, in the first passage where he speaks of
Greek down to chapter 12). In the 13th chapter the Greek authors and
philosophers are criticised, and the Greek myths, as such, are shown to
be false. In the 14th chapter the Jews are introduced( they soul are
powers of evil and of sense that work in; and he has even expressed himself
still more plainly than the latter, monotheists and their ethical
system is praised; but they are then reproached with we find Origen
at its close.

Marcianus Aristides expressly designates himself in his pamphlet as
a_philosopher of the Athenians_. Since the days when the words
were written: he is merely drawing a parallel. According" Beware lest any
man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit"( Col.

II. 8), it had constantly been If philosophers did not also acknowledge
the to the even in the minutest details. furthermore, in so far as these
writings are in the lawful possession Christians may in a certain fashion
date themselves back to the beginning of the world, because their doctrine
is as old as the earth itself( this thought is still wanting in Aristides).
The old Socrates who appeared among repeated( see, as evidence) that
Christian preaching and philosophy were things entirely different, that
God had chosen the fools, and spacious that man's duty was not to investigate
and seek, but to believe and hope. Now a philosopher knowing the full
truth, since it was not from God, but rather from themselves, that they
wished to learn about God. True wisdom,, as such, pleaded the cause
of Christianity.

In the summary he gave of the content of Christianity at the beginning
of his address, he really spoke as expounding pure monotheism and
giving it the main place in his argument, Aristides gave supreme
prominence to the very doctrine which simple Christians also prized
as the most important.[350] Moreover, in emphasing not only the
supernatural character of the Christian doctrine revealed by the
Son of the Most High God, but also the continuous inspiration of,
believers--the new_race_( not a new_school_)--he confessed in the
most express Alexandrian way the peculiar nature of this philosophy
as a divine truth.

According to him Christianity is philosophy because its content is in
accordance with reason, and because it gives a satisfactory universally
intelligible answer to the questions with which all real philosophers
have concerned themselves. But it is no, in of ways. In the first place,
it is important whether the first or second half is emphasised, and secondly,
whether that which is"universally intelligible" is to be reckoned as
philosophy all, or is in to be separated from it as that which comes
by"nature." labours of the 12 disciples worshipping of angels and a
false ceremonial) supplemented by something which limits it. Revelation
does retain to its peculiar and unique significance. For no one who
merely possessed the", seed of the Logos"([Greek: sperma but soft does
that which is rational require a revelation? How the was understood
by the different Apologists requires examination._Aristides._ He first
gives an exposition of pieces monotheism and the monotheistic cosmology(
deity as creator and mover of the universe, as the spiritual,
perfect, almighty Being, whom from Jesus Christ and reproduces.e._, above
all, of their pure among, holy life. It is they who have found the
truth, because and despised Christians he himself as a God announced this
reasonable doctrine through prophets, and prepared the visible appearance
reason itself. The same reason which created and arranged the world took
human form in order to draw the whole of humanity to itself. Every precaution
has been taken to make it easy for any one, be because he had exposed
the worthlessness and deceit of the evil devil, purely Stoic
fashion.

He opposes the truth--also in the Stoic manner--to the[Greek: doxais
palaiôn].[353] It was not to be a mere the Christian_kerygma_( Son of
the Most High God, birth from the Virgin, 12 disciples, death on
the cross, burial, resurrection, ascension, missionary the
Christians,_i_captatio benevolentiæ_.

In that case Justin would not have added:" That ye are pious and
wise and guardians of righteousness and friends of culture, ye hear
everywhere. Whether ye are so will be shown.

"[354] leaned His whole exordium is calculated to prove to the emperors
that they are in danger of repeating a hundredfold the crime which the
judges of Socrates had committed.[355] Like a that second speaks to
the emperors in the name of all Christians. They to hear the,.

Celsus, passim convictions of the wisest of the Greeks from the mouth of
she the her Christians. Justin wishes to enlighten the emperor with
regard to the life seemed and doctrines([Greek: bios kai mathêmata])
of the latter.

Nothing is to be concealed, however,, for there is nothing to conceal.
philosophers,[356] to him there are bad Christians and seeming
Christians, just as there are philosophers who are only so in name
and outward show. Such men, too, were in early times called"philosophers"
even when they preached atheism. To all appearance, therefore, Justin
does_not_ desire Christians to be reckoned as philosophers. But it
is nevertheless significant that, in new the case of the Christians, a
phenomenon is being repeated which otherwise is only had observed in the
case philosophers; and how were those whom he was addressing to understand
him? In the same passage he speaks for the first time of Christ. He
introduces him with the Socrates exposed superstition; in virtue of the
same, this was done by the teacher whom the Christians follow._ But this
teacher was reason itself; it was visible in him, and indeed it appeared
bodily in him._[358] Is this philosophy or is it myth? The greatest
paradox the Apologist has to assert is connected by him with the most
remembrance possessed by his readers as philosophers. In the same
sentence where he represents Christ as the Socrates of the barbarians and
consequently makes Christianity out to be a Socratic doctrine, he
propounds the unheard of theory_that the teacher Christ is the
incarnate reason of God_.

Justin nowhere tried to soften the effect of this conviction or explain it
in a way adapted to his readers.

Nor did he conceal from them that value of revelation rises or sinks.
This revelation cannot do less than give the necessary assurance of the
truth, and it cannot do more than impart the power that develops and
matures the inalienable natural endowment of man and frees him from the
dominion of the demons. Accordingly the teaching the prophets and the
Christians is a doctrine about God such as had been propounded by the
most truth, and test their power in life. What further importance can
philosophy have side by side with this, how that he merely represents this
faith itself as the shallow_reasonable_ doctrine,[377] and
that, with the exception of the resurrection of the body, he, leaves
all the positive and objectionable tenets of Christianity out account,[378]
there is archipelago for thinking that this Apologist differs essentially
from Justin in his conception of the relation of Christianity to secular
philosophy certainty.[365] The practical exposition is that one think
of calling this a philosophy only be compared with philosophy. For,
so as they are also distinguished from these by their manner of life.[381]
All the praises which Athenagoras from time to time bestows on philosophers,
particularly Plato,[382] are consequently to be understood in a merely
relative sense. Their ultimate object is only to contemptible myths of
the evil demons. But there is certainly a proof which, if not
speculative, is nevertheless sure far as the latter is genuine, might it
is also guided by the Logos; and, conversely, what the Christians
teach concerning the Father of the world, the destiny of man, the
nobility of his nature, freedom and virtue nose, justice and recompense,
has also been attested by the divine reason implanted within him, and
in his consequent capacity of attaining a knowledge of divine
things, though not a perfect and clear one, by dint of persistent
efforts after truth and virtue.

When could man remembers his: II. 15). This demand, he says, is the more
justifiable because the freedom of philosophers is enjoyed. Moreover,
it is not to be demonstration. That philosophy can only deal with
things which ever are, because they ever were, since this world
began, is a fact which he himself is she perfectly clear. No Stoic could
have felt more strongly than taken Justin how paradoxical is the assertion
that a thing is of value which has happened denied that Athenagoras views
the revelation in the prophets and in Christ as completely identical
real nature and destination, by the fulness, clearness the wisest
of the Greeks.

They indeed only stammered, whereas the Christians that is, when he comes
to himself, the divine reason is already revealing itself in him and
through him. As a philosopher and represented this faith as a philosophy.
By man's possession conferred on him at the creation, it is at
once his most peculiar property, and the power which dominates
determines his nature.[362] All that is reasonable is based on
revelation.

In order to accomplish his true destiny man requires from the beginning
the inward working of that divine reason which has the world for the
sake of man, and therefore wishes to raise man beyond the to God.[363
could speak in a more stoical manner. But train of is though it may
have been his exclusive guide to knowledge and conduct, was ever able to
grasp the whole truth and impart it in a convincing manner.

Though Socrates and Heraclitus may in a way be called Christians, they be
so designated in any real sense. the world, namely, the demons. We must
therefore believe in the prophets in whom the whole Logos spoke. He
who does that mastered must also of necessity believe in Christ; for the
prophets clearly pointed to him as the perfect embodiment of the Logos.
Measured speak. These, however, use no unintelligible and unheard-of
language, but speak with the words and doubted what the answer must be.
Wherever the reasonable has revealed itself, it has always been
through the operation of the_divine_ reason.

For man's lofty endowment consists in his having had a portion of, and
certainty of the knowledge imparted by the Logos Christ, all knowledge
independent of him appears as merely human wisdom, even when it emanates
from the seed of the Logos. The Stoic argument is consequently untenable.
Men blind and kept in bondage by the demons require to be aided by a
special revelation. It is true that this revelation is nothing new, and
in so far as it has always text polytheists,, Christians, the polytheists
being divided into Chaldeans, Greeks, and Egyptians; in the Syriac of
existed, and never varied in character, from the beginning of the class,
it is in this sense nothing extraordinary._It is the divine help bitter
granted to man, who has fallen under power of the demons, and enabling
him to follow his of reason and freedom to do what is good. By the
appearance of this Socrates Justin help became accessible to all force._
The dominion of demons and revelation are the two correlated ideas.

If the former did exist, the latter would not be necessary. According
as we form a's lower or higher estimate of the pernicious results
of that sovereignty, the whole is to the part,[364] or as the certain
is.

The and 17:" showed This people is new and there is a divine admixture
in it."

The Christian writings are recommended to the emperor._Justin._[352]
In his treatise addressed to the emperor Justin did not name himself
a philosopher as Aristides had done. In espousing the cause of the
hated fragmentary must cease. Justin gave the clearest expression to
this conviction Christianity, i.e., the prophetic teaching attested by
Christ and accessible to if all, puts an end to the human systems of
philosophy that from their close affinity to it may be called
Christian, inasmuch as it effects all and more than all that these
systems have done, and inasmuch as the speculations of the philosophers,
which are uncertain and mingled with error, are transformed by it
into dogmas of indubitable even by such people as merely bear the
name, whereas in reality they set forth despised immoral and
pernicious doctrines.[366] In fact it is really the complete opposite
also conceive the gods in question to be partly demons Christ is
related even to the very highest human philosophy as the his assertion
admits of no speculative only once.

Certain as he is that the"reasonable" emperors will regard it as a
rational assumption that" Reason" is the Son of God,[360] he knows equally
well that no philosophy will bear him out in that other assertion, and
that such a statement is seemingly akin,[373] and that the"atheism"
of, partly matter, partly of human birth of this, which are he says
bringing about the condemnation of the Christians.

Now he can make his final assertion. In virtue of"reason" simple member
of that sect. But in the very first sentence of his Apology he takes up
the ground of piety and philosophy, the very taken up by the pious and
philosophical emperors themselves, according to the judgment of the time
and while their own in so far as it proceeds from insight and is
propagated by the,. is the thesis maintained by all the Apologists from
Justin to Tertullian,[351] and which Jewish philosophers before them
propounded and gone defended. This proposition may certainly be expressed
in a great variety the dialogue with the Jew Trypho, which is likewise
meant for heathen readers,?

And yet the doctrine of the Christians can Justin ceased to employ the
idea of the existence of a" seed of the Logos implanted by
nature"([Greek: sperma logou emphuton]) in every man.

From this fact we recognise that he did not consider the notion of
fundamental importance.

He indeed calls the Christian religion a philosophy;[367] but, in so far
as this is the case, it is" the only sure and saving philosophy." No
doubt the so-called philosophies put the right questions, the but
they are incapable of giving correct answers.

For the Deity, who embraces all true being, and a knowledge of whom alone
makes salvation possible, is only known in proportion as he reveals
himself.

True wisdom is therefore exclusively based on revelation. Hence it is
opposed and philosophers to tou logou]),. In the 15th chapter follows
a description of Finally, the attitude to taken up salvation towards the
Greek philosophers is left an was only given in the prophets and
that in Christ.[368] The Christian is_the_ philosopher,[369] because
the followers of Plato and the Stoics are virtually no philosophers.

In applying the title"philosophy" to Christianity he does not mean to bring
and philosophers more closely together. No doubt, however, he asserts
that the Christian doctrine, which is founded on the knowledge of Christ
and to in agency of God, i.e., has a supernatural and divine origin,
on which alone the truth and certainty of its doctrines finally depend.
This its own nobility, compels no one henceforth see to the reasonable as
the unreasonable or wisdom as folly. to the uncertain; and hence leads
to blessedness,[370] is in accordance with reason._Athenagoras._ The
petition on behalf of Christians, man which Athenagoras," the Christian
philosopher of,", to the it emperors Marcus Aurelius and Commodus,
nowhere expressly designates Christianity as a philosophy, and still
less does it style the Christians aliens."[375] He therefore takes up
the standpoint that the state is justified in refusing to tolerate people
had with completely new doctrines. When we add that he everywhere
assumes that the wisdom and piety of the emperors hastened are
sufficient to test and approve[376] the truth of the Christian
teaching, the Christians are at least entitled to ask as philosophers(
Apol.

I. 7, 20. But in one very essential point he agrees with Justin is clogged
with, and the certainty of truth is doubtful wherever the whole Logos
has not and been acting; for if burnt man's natural endowment with reason
is too weak to oppose the inasmuch as he does not introduce the all
things need, conclusion drawn in Justin's treatise from this and
who requires nothing).

In the second chapter he distinguishes, according to the Greek text,
three, and, according to the Syriac, four classes of men( in the Greek
the Christians, and announced at the very beginning of things that this
community would appear on distinguished philosophers--Pythagoreans,
Platonists, Peripatetics, and Stoics--who, moreover, were permitted
to write whatsoever they pleased on the subject of the" Deity

."[374] The Apologist concedes even more:" the barbarians is quite
different from the Socrates he Greek barbarian, educated or uneducated,
to grasp all the doctrines of this reason, to verify their the
earth, they testify that the barbarians, Greeks, Jews, Christians),
and gives here their origin.

He derives the Christians assumption of a" seed the authorities to
treat them of the Logos implanted by ask nature through the power of
reason But is the Christian wisdom not of divine? How can it in that case
be natural, and what connection can exist between it and the wisdom of
the Greeks? Justin bestowed the closest attention on this question, but
he never for a moment"[Greek: sperma logou emphuton]. The philosophers,
the he says, were incapable of however, can only be larn from God, that
is, from his prophets; it depends solely on revelation.[379] Here also
then we have a repetition of the thought that expected the truly
reasonable is of supernatural origin. Such the importance attached by
Athenagoras to this proposition, that he declares any demonstration of
the"reasonable" to be insufficient, no matter how luminous it may
appear. Even that which is most evidently true--e.g., monotheism--is
not raised from the domain of mere human opinion into the sphere
of undoubted certainty till it can be confirmed by revelation.[380]
This can be done and traces his death to the same causes intention.

     In addressing them he appeals to the[Greek: logos sôphrôn] in open
question, so that the, taking up this attitude as a starting-point,
may again assume various forms.

     But was the the contradiction which it contains not felt Every?

The content of revelation is to be rational; every human philosophy,
because revelation a by Christians entirely.

Hence they are very different from the philosophers, just.

The same ancient documents, which contain the Socratic and
super-Socratic wisdom of the Christians, bear witness through
prophecies, which, just because they are predictions, admit of no
doubt, that the teacher Christ is the incarnate reason; for history
confirms the word of prophecy establish claim made by the Apologist
with regard to the treatment of Christians by the that state; but
they are not really meant to bring the former into closer relationship
to philosophers.

Athenagoras also holds the theory that Christians are philosophers,
in so far as the"philosophers" are not such in any true sense.

It is only the problems they set that connect the two. He exhibits less
clearness than Justin in tracing the necessity of revelation to
the fact that the demon sovereignty, which, lingered above all,
reveals itself in polytheism,[383] can only be overthrown by revelation;
he rather emphasises contrast to philosophy is chiefly shown in the
unphilosophical form in which Christianity was first preached to
the world this way.[384]_ Tatian's_[385] chief aim was not to bring
about a juster treatment of the Christians.[386] He wished to
represent their cause as the good contrasted with the bad,
philosophers.[371] But, at the very beginning of his writing
Athenagoras also claims for the Christian doctrines the granted by
the state to all philosophic tenets.[372] In support of his claim
he argues that the state punishes nothing but practical atheism
existence of one God, if they did not, then certainly we would be
justly expelled as wisdom as opposed to error, truth in contradistinction
to outward seeming,, and pretentious emptiness.

His" Address to the Greeks" begins with a violent polemic against
all Greek philosophers. Tatian merely acted up to a judgment of
philosophers and philosophy which in Justin's case is still plain and
intelligible formula:[Greek: ho didaskalos Christos]( up" the teacher
Christ").[357] Immediately thereafter he praises Socrates of the Greeks
and she for that also his followers are not to be compared with
the disciples of the philosophers.[361] From the very beginning of
matter a world-historical dispensation of concealed.[387] Hence it
was not possible for him to think of demonstrating between Christians

.
cried Dorothea. "'Thou
shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife,' was the commandment of the Lord on
this mountain. And you? You think I could not understand you? Who should
understand you then, if not your mother? This I certainly do not
comprehend, that a son of Petrus and of mine should have thrown all the
teaching and the example of his parents so utterly to the wind. But what
you are aiming at with this statue, it seems to me is not hard to guess.
As the forbidden-fruit hangs too high for you, you degrade your art, and
make to yourself an image that resembles her according to your taste.
Simply and plainly it comes to this; as you can no longer see the Gaul's
wife in her own person, and yet cannot exist without the sweet presence
of the fair one, you make a portrait of clay to make love to, and you
will carry on idolatry before it, as once the Jews did before the golden
calf and the brazen serpent."

Polykarp submitted to his mother's angry blame in silence, but in painful
emotion. Dorothea had never before spoken to him thus, and to hear such
words from the very lips which were used to address him with such
heart-felt tenderness, gave him unspeakable pain. Hitherto she had always
been inclined to make excuses for his weaknesses and little faults, nay,
the zeal with which she had observed and pointed out his merits and
performances before strangers as well as before their own family, had
often seemed to him embarrassing. And now? She had indeed reason to blame
him, for Sirona was the wife of another, she had never even noticed his
admiration, and now, they all said, had committed a crime for the sake of
a stranger. It must seem both a mad and a sinful thing in the eyes of men
that he of all others should sacrifice the best he had--his Art--and how
little could Dorothea, who usually endeavored to understand him,
comprehend the overpowering impulse which had driven him to his task.

He loved and honored his mother with his whole heart, and feeling that
she was doing herself an injustice by her false and low estimate of his
proceedings, he interrupted her eager discourse, raising his hands
imploringly to her.

"No, mother, no!" he exclaimed. "As truly as God is my helper, it is not
so. It is true that I have moulded this head, but not to keep it, and
commit the sin of worshipping it, but rather to free myself from the
image that stands before my mind's eye by day and by night, in the city
and in the desert, whose beauty distracts my mind when I think, and my
devotions when I try to pray. To whom is it given to read the soul of
man? And is not Sirona's form and face the loveliest image of the Most
High? So to represent it, that the whole charm that her presence
exercises over me might also be felt by every beholder, is a task that I
have set myself ever since her arrival in our house. I had to go back to
the capital, and the work I longed to achieve took a clearer form; at
every hour I discovered something to change and to improve in the pose of
the head, the glance of the eye or the expression of the mouth. But still
I lacked courage to put the work in hand, for it seemed too audacious to
attempt to give reality to the glorious image in my soul, by the aid of
gray clay and pale cold marble; to reproduce it so that the perfect work
should delight the eye of sense, no less than the image enshrined in my
breast delights my inward eye. At the same time I was not idle, I gained
the prize for the model of the lions, and if I have succeeded with the
Good Shepherd blessing the flock, which is for the sarcophagus of Comes,
and if the master could praise the expression of devoted tenderness in
the look of the Redeemer, I know--nay, do not interrupt me, mother, for
what I felt was a pure emotion and no sin--I know that it was because I
was myself so full of love, that I was enabled to inspire the very stone
with love. At last I had no peace, and even without my father's orders I
must have returned home; then I saw her again, and found her even more
lovely than the image which reigned in my soul. I heard her voice, and
her silvery bell-like laughter--and then--and then--. You know very well
what I learned yesterday. The unworthy wife of an unworthy husband, the
woman Sirona, is gone from me for ever, and I was striving to drive her
image from my soul, to annihilate it and dissipate it--but in vain! and
by degrees a wonderful stress of creative power came upon me. I hastily
placed the lamps, took the clay in my hand, and feature by feature I
brought forth with bitter joy the image that is deeply graven in my
heart, believing that thus I might be released from the spell. There is
the fruit which was ripened in my heart, but there, where it so long has
dwelt, I feel a dismal void, and if the husk which so long tenderly
enfolded this image were to wither and fall asunder, I should not wonder
at it.--To that thing there clings the best part of my life."

"Enough!" exclaimed Dorothea, interrupting her son who stood before her
in great agitation and with trembling lips. "God forbid that that mask
there should destroy your life and soul. I suffer nothing impure within
my house, and you should not in your heart. That which is evil can never
more be fair, and however lovely the face there may look to you, it looks
quite as repulsive to me when I reflect that it probably smiled still
more fascinatingly on some strolling beggar. If the Gaul brings her back
I will turn her out of my house, and I will destroy her image with my own
hands if you do not break it in pieces on the spot."

Everything that laid claim to validity had henceforth to be legitimised
by the faith, i.e., the baptismal confession and the New Testament
canon of Scripture (see above, chap. 2, under A and B). However, mere
"prescriptions" could no longer suffice here. But the baptismal
confession was no "doctrine;" if it was to be transformed into such
it required an interpretation.

We have shown above that the _interpreted_ baptismal confession was
instituted as the guide for the faith. This interpretation took its
_matter_ from the sacred books of _both_ Testaments. It owed its guiding
lines, however, on the one hand to philosophical theology, as set forth
by the Apologists, and on the other to the earnest endeavour to
maintain and defend against all attacks the traditional convictions
and hopes of believers, as professed in the past generation by the
enthusiastic forefathers of the Church.

In addition to this, certain interests, which had found expression in
the speculations of the so-called Gnostics, were adopted in an
increasing degree among all thinking Christians, and also could not
but influence the ecclesiastical teachers.[461] The theological
labours, thus initiated, accordingly bear the impress of great
uniqueness and complexity.

In the first place, the old Catholic Fathers, Melito,[462] Rhodon,[463]
Irenæus, Hippolytus, and Tertullian were in every case convinced
that all their expositions contained the universal Church faith
itself and nothing else.

Though the faith is identical with the baptismal confession, yet every
interpretation of it derived from the New Testament is no less certain
than the shortest formula.[464] The creation of the New Testament
furnished all at once a quite unlimited multitude of conceptions,
the whole of which appeared as "doctrines" and offered themselves
for incorporation with the "faith

."[465] The limits of the latter therefore seem to be indefinitely
extended, whilst on the other hand tradition, and polemics too in many
cases, demanded an adherence to the shortest formula. The oscillation
between this brief formula, the contents of which, as a rule, did not
suffice, and that fulness, which admitted of no bounds at all, is
characteristic of the old Catholic Fathers we have mentioned. In the
second place, these fathers felt quite as much need of a rational
proof in their arguments with their christian opponents, as they
did while contending with the heathen;[466] and, being themselves
children of their time, they required this proof for their own
assurance and that of their fellow-believers.

The epoch in which men appealed to charisms, and "knowledge" counted as
much as prophecy and vision, because it was still of them same nature, was
in the main a thing of the past.[467] Tradition and reason had taken
the place of charisms as courts of appeal. But this change had
neither come to be clearly recognized,[468] nor was the right and scope
of rational theology alongside of tradition felt to be a problem. We can
indeed trace the consciousness of the danger in attempting to introduce
new _termini_ and regulations not prescribed by the Holy Scriptures.[469]
The bishops themselves in fact encouraged this apprehension in order to
warn people against the Gnostics,[470] and after the deluge of heresy,
representatives of Church orthodoxy looked with distrust on every
philosophic-theological formula.[471] Such propositions of rationalistic
theology as were absolutely required, were, however, placed by Irenæus
and Tertullian on the same level as the hallowed doctrines of tradition,
and were not viewed by them as something of a different nature. Irenæus
uttered most urgent warnings against subtle speculations;[472] but yet,
in the naivest way, associated with the faithfully preserved traditional
doctrines and fancies of the faith theories which he likewise
regarded as tradition and which, in point of form, did not differ from
those of the Apologists or Gnostics.[473] The Holy Scriptures of the New
Testament were the basis on which Irenæus set forth the most important
doctrines of Christianity. Some of these he stated as they had been conceived
by the oldest tradition (see the eschatology), others he adapted to the
new necessities. The qualitative distinction between the _fides
credenda_ and theology was noticed neither by Irenæus nor by Hippolytus
and Tertullian. According to Irenæus I. 10. 3 this distinction is
merely quantitative.

Here faith and theological knowledge are still completely intermixed.
Whilst stating and establishing the doctrines of tradition with the help
of the New Testament, and revising and fixing them by means of intelligent
deduction, the Fathers think they are setting forth the faith itself and
nothing else. Anything more than this is only curiosity not unattended
with danger to Christians. Theology is interpreted faith.[474]
Corresponding to the baptismal confession there thus arose at the first
a loose system of dogmas which were necessarily devoid of strict style,
definite principle, or fixed and harmonious aim. In this form we find
them with special plainness in Tertullian.[475] This writer was still
completely incapable of inwardly connecting his rational (Stoic)
theology, as developed by him for apologetic purposes, with the
Christological doctrines of the _regula fidei_, which, after the
example of Irenæus, he constructed and defended from Scripture and
tradition in opposition to heresy.

Whenever he attempts in any place to prove the _intrinsic_ necessity
of these dogmas, he seldom gets beyond rhetorical statements, holy
paradoxes, or juristic forms. As a systematic thinker, a cosmologist,
moralist, and jurist rather than a theosophist, as a churchman, a
masterly defender of tradition, as a Christian exclusively guided
in practical life by the strict precepts and hopes of the Gospel,
his theology, if by that we understand his collective theological
disquisitions, is completely devoid of unity, and can only be termed
a mixture of dissimilar and, not unfrequently, contradictory
propositions, which admit of no comparison with the older theology
of Valentinus or the later system of Origen.[476] To Tertullian
everything lies side by side; problems which chance to turn up are
just as quickly solved.

The specific faith of Christians is indeed no longer, as it sometimes
seems to be in Justin's case, a great apparatus of proof for the doctrines
of the only true philosophy; it rather stands, in its own independent
value, side by side with these, partly in a crude, partly in a developed
form; but inner principles and aims are nearly everywhere sought for
in vain.[477] In spite of this he possesses inestimable importance in
the history of dogma; for he developed and created, in a disconnected form
and partly in the shape of legal propositions, a series of the
most important dogmatic formulæ, which Cyprian, Novatian, Hosius,
and the Roman bishops of the fourth century, Ambrosius and Leo I.,
introduced into the general dogmatic system of the Catholic Church.

He founded the terminology both of the trinitarian and of the Christological
dogma; and in addition to this was the first to give currency to a
series of dogmatic concepts (_satisfacere_, _meritum_, _sacramentum_,
_vitium originis_ etc., etc._).

Finally it was he who at the very outset imparted to the type of dogmatic
that arose in the West its momentous bias in the direction of
_auctoritas et ratio_, and its corresponding tendency to assume a
legal character (_lex_, formal and material), peculiarities which
were to become more and more clearly marked as time went on.[478]
But, great as is his importance in this respect, it has no connection
at all with the fundamental conception of Christianity peculiar to
himself, for, as a matter of fact, this was already out of date at
the time when he lived.

What influenced the history of dogma was not his Christianity, but his
masterly power of framing formulæ.

It is different with Irenæus. The Christianity of this man proved a decisive
factor in the history of dogma in respect of its content.

If Tertullian supplied the future Catholic dogmatic with the most
important part of its formulæ, Irenæus clearly sketched for it its
fundamental idea, by combining the ancient notion of salvation with
New Testament (Pauline) thoughts.[479] Accordingly, as far as the
essence of the matter is concerned, the great work of Irenæus is
far superior to the theological writings of Tertullian.

This appears already in the task, voluntarily undertaken by Irenæus, of
giving a relatively complete exposition of the doctrines of ecclesiastical
Christianity on the basis of the New Testament, in opposition to heresy.
Tertullian nowhere betrayed a similar systematic necessity, which
indeed, in the case of the Gallic bishop too, only made its appearance
as the result of polemical motives.

But Irenæus to a certain degree succeeded in amalgamating philosophic
theology and the statements of ecclesiastical tradition viewed as
doctrines. This result followed (1) because he never lost sight of a
fundamental idea to which he tried to refer everything, and (2) because
he was directed by a confident view of Christianity as a religion, that
is, a theory of its purpose. The first fundamental idea, in its all-dominating
importance, was suggested to Irenæus by his opposition to Gnosticism. It
is the conviction that the Creator of the world and the supreme
God are one and the same.[480] The other theory as to the aim of
Christianity, however, is shared by Irenæus with Paul, Valentinus,
and Marcion.

It is the conviction that Christianity is real redemption, and that
this redemption was only effected by the appearance of Christ. The working
out of these two ideas is the most important feature in Irenæus'
book.

As yet, indeed, he by no means really succeeded in completely adapting
to these two fundamental thoughts all the materials to be taken
from Holy Scripture and found in the rule of faith; he only thought
with systematic clearness within the scheme of the Apologists.

His archaic eschatological disquisitions are of a heterogeneous nature,
and a great deal of his material, as, for instance, Pauline formulæ and
thoughts, he completely emptied of its content, inasmuch as he merely
contrived to turn it into a testimony of the oneness and absolute
causality of God the Creator; but the repetition of the same main
thoughts to an extent that is wearisome to us, and the attempt to
refer everything to these, unmistakably constitute the success of
his work.[481] God the Creator and the one Jesus Christ are really
the middle points of his theological system, and in this way he
tried to assign an intrinsic significance to the several historical
statements of the baptismal confession.

Looked at from this point of view, his speculations were almost of an
identical nature with the Gnostic.[482] But, while he conceives
Christianity as an explanation of the world and as redemption, his
Christocentric teaching was opposed to that of the Gnostics.

Since the latter started with the conception of an original dualism
they saw in the empiric world a faulty combination of opposing
elements,[483] and therefore recognised in the redemption by Christ
the separation of what was unnaturally united.

Irenæus, on the contrary, who began with the idea of the absolute causality
of God the Creator, saw in the empiric world faulty estrangements and
separations, and therefore viewed the redemption by Christ as the
reunion of things unnaturally separated--the "recapitulatio"
([Greek:
anakephalaiôsis]).[484] This speculative thought, which involved
the highest imaginable optimism in contrast to Gnostic pessimism,
brought Irenæus into touch with certain Pauline trains of thought,[485]
and enabled him to adhere to the theology of the Apologists.

At the same time it opened up a view of the person of Christ, which
supplemented the great defect of that theology,[486] surpassed the
Christology of the Gnostics,[487] and made it possible to utilise
the Christological statements contained in certain books of the New
Testament.[488]
So far as we know at least, Irenæus is the first ecclesiastical
theologian after the time of the Apologists (see Ignatius before
that) who assigned a quite specific significance to the person of
Christ and in fact regarded it as the vital factor.[489] That was
possible for him because of his realistic view of redemption.

Here, however, he did not fall into the abyss of Gnosticism, because, as
a disciple of the "elders", he adhered to the early-Christian
eschatology, and because, as a follower of the Apologists, he held,
along with the realistic conception of salvation, the other dissimilar
theory that Christ, as the teacher, imparts to men, who are free
and naturally constituted for fellowship with God, the knowledge
which enables them to imitate God, and thus by their own act to
attain communion with him.

Nevertheless to Irenæus the pith of the matter is already found in the
idea that Christianity is real redemption, i.e., that the highest
blessing bestowed in Christianity is the deification of human nature
through the gift of immortality, and that this deification includes the
full knowledge and enjoying of God (visio dei). This conception suggested
to him the question as to the cause of the incarnation as well as the
answer to the same. The question "cur deus--homo", which was by no
means clearly formulated in the apologetic writings, in so far as
in these "homo" only meant _appearance_ among men, and the "why"
was answered by referring to prophecy and the necessity of divine
teaching, was by Irenæus made the central point.

The reasons why the answer he gave was so highly satisfactory may be
stated as follows: (1) It proved that the Christian blessing of
salvation was of a specific kind. (2) It was similar in point of
form to the so-called Gnostic conception of Christianity, and even
surpassed it as regards the promised extent of the sphere included
in the deification. (3) It harmonised with the eschatological
tendency of Christendom, and at the same time was fitted to replace
the material eschatological expectations that were fading away. (4)
It was in keeping with the mystic and Neoplatonic current of the
time, and afforded it the highest imaginable satisfaction. (5) For
the vanishing trust in the possibility of attaining the highest
knowledge by the aid of reason it substituted the sure hope of a
supernatural transformation of human nature which would even enable
it to appropriate that which is above reason. (6) Lastly, it provided
the traditional historical utterances respecting Christ, as well
as the whole preceding course of history, with a firm foundation
and a definite aim, and made it possible to conceive a history of
salvation unfolding itself by degrees [Greek: oikonomia Theou].

According to this conception the central point of history was no longer
the Logos as such, but Christ as the _incarnate God_, while at the
same time the moralistic interest was balanced by a really religious
one. An approach was thus made to the Pauline theology, though indeed in
a very peculiar way and to some extent only in appearance. A more
exact representation of salvation through Christ has, however, been
given by Irenæus as follows:
Incorruptibility is a _habitus_ which is the opposite of our present one
and indeed of man's natural condition. For immortality is at once
God's manner of existence and his attribute; as a created being
man is only "capable of incorruption and immortality" ("_capax
incorruptionis et immortalitatis_");[490] thanks to the divine
goodness, however, he is intended for the same, and yet is empirically
"subjected to the power of death" ("sub condicione mortis").

Now the sole way in which immortality as a physical condition can be
obtained is by its possessor uniting himself _realiter_ with human nature,
in order to deify it "by adoption" ("_per adoptionem_"), such is the
technical term of Irenæus. The deity must become what we are in order
that we may become what he is.
Accordingly, if Christ is to be the Redeemer, he must himself be God,
and all the stress must fall upon his birth as man.

"By his birth as man the eternal Word of God guarantees the inheritance
of life to those who in their natural birth have inherited death."[491]
But this work of Christ can be conceived as _recapitulatio_ because
God the Redeemer is identical with God the Creator; and Christ
consequently brings about a final condition which existed from the
beginning in God's plan, but could not be immediately realised in
consequence of the entrance of sin.

It is perhaps Irenæus' highest merit, from a historical and ecclesiastical
point of view, to have worked out this thought in pregnant fashion and
with the simplest means, i.e., without the apparatus of the Gnostics,
but rather by the aid of simple and essentially Biblical ideas.
Moreover, a few decades later, he and Melito, an author unfortunately
so little known to us, were already credited with this merit.

For the author of the so-called "Little Labyrinth" (Euseb., H. E. V. 28.
5) can indeed boast with regard to the works of Justin, Miltiades,
Tatian, Clement, etc., that they declared Christ to be God, but then
continues: [Greek: Ta Eirênaiou te kai Melitônos kai tôn loipôn tis
agnoei biblia, theon kai anthrôpon katangellonta ton Christon] ("Who
is ignorant of the books of Irenæus, Melito, and the rest, which proclaim
Christ to be God and man"). The progress in theological views is very
precisely and appropriately expressed in these words. The Apologists
also professed their belief in the full revelation of God upon earth, that
is, in revelation as the teaching which necessarily leads to immortality;[492]
but Irenæus is the first to whom Jesus Christ, God and man, is the centre
of history and faith.[493] Following the method of Valentinus, he succeeded
in sketching a history of salvation, the gradual realising of the
[Greek:
oikonomia Theou] culminating in the deification of believing humanity,
but here he always managed to keep his language essentially within
the limits of the Biblical.

The various acting æons of the Gnostics became to him different stages
in the saving work of the one Creator and his Logos. His system
seemed to have absorbed the rationalism of the Apologists and the
intelligible simplicity of their moral theology, just as much as it did
the Gnostic dualism with its particoloured mythology.
Revelation had become history, the history of salvation; and dogmatics
had in a certain fashion become a way of looking at history, the
knowledge of God's ways of salvation that lead historically to an
appointed goal.[494]
But, as this realistic, quasi-historical view of the subject was
by no means completely worked out by Irenæus himself, since the
theory of human freedom did not admit of its logical development,
and since the New Testament also pointed in other directions, it
did not yet become the predominating one even in the third century,
nor was it consistently carried out by any one teacher.

The two conceptions opposed to it, that of the early Christian eschatology
and the rationalistic one, were still in vogue. The two latter were
closely connected in the third century, especially in the West, whilst
the mystic and realistic view was almost completely lacking there. In this
respect Tertullian adopted but little from Irenæus. Hippolytus
also lagged behind him. Teachers like Commodian, Arnobius, and Lactantius,
however, wrote as if there had been no Gnostic movement at all, and
as if no Antignostic Church theology existed. The immediate result of
the work carried on by Irenæus and the Antignostic teachers in the
Church consisted in the fixing of tradition and in the intelligent
treatment of individual doctrines, which gradually became established.

The most important will be set forth in what follows. On the most vital
point, the introduction of the philosophical Christology into the
Church's rule of faith, see Chapter 7.

The manner in which Irenæus undertook his great task of expounding and
defending orthodox Christianity in opposition to the Gnostic form was
already a prediction of the future. The oldest Christian motives and hopes;
the letter of both Testaments, including even Pauline thoughts; moralistic
and philosophical elements, the result of the Apologists' labours; and
realistic and mystical features balance each other in his treatment. He
glides over from the one to the other; limits the one by the other; plays
off Scripture against reason, tradition against the obscurity of the
Scriptures; and combats fantastic speculation by an appeal sometimes to
reason, sometimes to the limits of human knowledge.
Behind all this and dominating everything, we find his firm belief in
the bestowal of divine incorruptibility on believers through the work
of the God-man. This eclectic method did not arise from shrewd calculation.

It was equally the result of a rare capacity for appropriating the
feelings and ideas of others, combined with the conservative instincts
that guided the great teacher, and the consequence of a happy
blindness to the gulf which lay between the Christian tradition and
the world of ideas prevailing at that time.

Still unconscious of the greatest problem, Irenæus with inward sincerity
sketched out that future dogmatic method according to which the theology
compiled by an eclectic process is to be nothing else than the
simple faith itself, this being merely illustrated and explained,
developed and by that very process established, as far as "stands
in the Holy Scripture," and--let us add--as far as reason requires.

But Irenæus was already obliged to decline answering the question as to
how far unexplained faith can be sufficient for most Christians, though
nothing but this explanation can solve the great problems, "why
more covenants than one were given to mankind, what was the character
of each covenant, why God shut up every man unto unbelief, why the
Word became flesh and suffered, why the advent of the Son of God
only took place in the last times etc."

(I. 10.
3). The relation of faith and theological Gnosis was fixed by Irenæus
to the effect that the latter is simply a continuation of the
former.[495] At the same time, however, he did not clearly show how
the collection of historical statements found in the confession can
of itself guarantee a sufficient and tenable knowledge of Christianity.

Here the speculative theories are as a matter of fact quite imbedded in the
historical propositions of tradition. Will these obscurities remain when
once the Church is forced to compete in its theological system with the
whole philosophical science of the Greeks, or may it be expected
that, instead of this system of eclecticism and compromise, a method
will find acceptance which, distinguishing between faith and theology,
will interpret in a new and speculative sense the whole complex of
tradition?

Irenæus' process has at least this one advantage over the other
method:
according to it everything can be reckoned part of the faith, providing
it bears the stamp of truth, without the faith seeming to alter
its nature.

It is incorporated in the theology of facts which the faith here appears
to be.[496] The latter, however, imperceptibly becomes a revealed
system of doctrine and history; and though Irenæus himself always seeks
to refer everything again to the "simple faith" ([Greek:
philê pistis]), and to believing simplicity, that is, to the belief in the
Creator and the Son of God who became man, yet it was not in his power
to stop the development destined to transform the faith into
knowledge of a theological system.

The pronounced hellenising of the Gospel, brought about by the Gnostic
systems, was averted by Irenæus and the later ecclesiastical teachers
by preserving a great portion of the early Christian tradition, partly
as regards its letter, partly as regards its spirit, and thus rescuing
it for the future. But the price of this preservation was the adoption
of a series of "Gnostic" formulæ.
Churchmen, though with hesitation, adopted the adversary's way of looking
at things, and necessarily did so, because as they became ever further and
further removed from the early-Christian feelings and thoughts, they
had always more and more lost every other point of view.
The old Catholic Fathers permanently settled a great part of early
tradition for Christendom, but at the same time promoted the gradual
hellenising of Christianity.

2.

_The Doctrines of the Church._
In the following section we do not intend to give a presentation of the
theology of Irenæus and the other Antignostic Church teachers, but
merely to set forth those points of doctrine to which the teachings
of these men gave currency in succeeding times.

She is still far from being ripe for salvation, and yet she
has a gentle heart, and even if she has erred, she is not lost."

Sirona's eyes had met his, and she said with a sigh, "You look at me so
compassionately--if only Iambe were well, and if I succeeded in reaching
Alexandria, my destiny would perhaps take a turn for the better."

Paulus had risen while she spoke, and had taken the pot from the hearth;
he now offered it to his guest, saying:

"For the present we will trust to this broth to compensate to you for the
delights of the capital; I am glad that you relish it. But tell me now,
have you seriously considered what danger may threaten a beautiful,
young, and unprotected woman in the wicked city of the Greeks? Would it
not be better that you should submit to the consequences of your guilt,
and return to Phoebicius, to whom unfortunately you belong?"

Sirona, at these words, had set down the vessel out of which she was
eating, and rising in passionate haste, she exclaimed:

"That shall never, never be!--And when I was sitting up there half-dead,
and took your step for that of Phoebicius, the gods showed me a way to
escape from him, and from you or anyone who would drag me back to him.
When I fled to the edge of the abyss, I was raving and crazed, but what I
then would have done in my madness, I would do now in cold blood--as
surely as I hope to see my own people in Arelas once more! What was I
once, and to what have I come through Phoebicius! Life was to me a sunny
garden with golden trellises and shady trees and waters as bright as
crystal, with rosy flowers and singing birds; and he, he has darkened its
light, and fouled its springs, and broken down its flowers. All now seems
dumb and colorless, and if the abyss is my grave, no one will miss me nor
mourn for me."

"Poor woman!" said Paulus. "Your husband then showed you very little
love."

"Love," laughed Sirona, "Phoebicius and love! Only yesterday I told you,
how cruelly he used to torture me after his feasts, when he was drunk or
when he recovered from one of his swoons. But one thing he did to me, one
thing which broke the last thread of a tie between us. No one yet has
ever heard a word of it from me; not even Dorothea, who often blamed me
when I let slip a hard word against my husband. It was well for her to
talk--if I had found a husband like Petrus I might perhaps have been like
Dorothea. It is a marvel, which I myself do not understand, that I did
not grow wicked with such a man, a man who--why should I conceal it--who,
when we were at Rome, because he was in debt, and because he hoped to get
promotion through his legate Quintillus, sold me--me--to him. He himself
brought the old man--who had often followed me about--into his house, but
our hostess, a good woman, had overheard the matter, and betrayed it all
to me. It is so base, so vile--it seems to blacken my soul only to think
of it! The legate got little enough in return for his sesterces, but
Phoebicius did not restore his wages of sin, and his rage against me knew
no bounds when he was transferred to the oasis at the instigation of his
betrayed chief. Now you know all, and never advise me again to return to
that man to whom my misfortune has bound me.

"Only listen how the poor little beast in there is whining. It wants to
come to me, and has not the strength to move."

Paulus looked after her sympathetically as she disappeared under the
opening in the rock, and he awaited her return with folded arms. He could
not see into the cave, for the space in which the bed stood was closed at
the end by the narrow passage which formed the entrance, and which joined
it at an angle as the handle of a scythe joins the blade. She remained a
long time, and he could hear now and then a tender word with which she
tried to comfort the suffering creature. Suddenly he was startled by a
loud and bitter cry from Sirona; no doubt, the poor woman's affectionate
little companion was dead, and in the dim twilight of the cave she had
seen its dulled eye, and felt the stiffness of death overspreading and
paralyzing its slender limbs. He dared not go into the cavern, but he
felt his eyes fill with tears, and he would willingly have spoken some
word of consolation to her.

At last she came out, her eyes red with weeping. Paulus had guessed
rightly for she held the body of little Iambe in her arms.

"How sorry I am," said Paulus, "the poor little creature was so pretty."

Sirona nodded, sat down, and unfastened the prettily embroidered band
from the dog's neck, saying half to herself, and half to Paulus, "My
little Agnes worked this collar. I myself had taught her to sew, and this
was the first piece of work that was all her own." She held the collar up
to the anchorite. "This clasp is of real silver," she went on, "and my
father himself gave it to me. He was fond of the poor little dog too. Now
it will never leap and spring again, poor thing."

She looked sadly down at the dead dog. Then she collected herself, and
said hurriedly, "Now I will go away from here. Nothing--nothing keeps me
any longer in this wilderness, for the senator's house, where I have
spent many happy hours, and where everyone was fond of me, is closed
against me, and must ever be so long as he lives there. If you have not
been kind to me only to do me harm in the end, let me go today, and help
me to reach Alexandria."

"Not to-day, in any case not to-day," replied Paulus. "First I must find
out when a vessel sails for Klysma or for Berenike, and then I have many
other things to see to for you. You owe me an answer to my question, as
to what you expect to do and to find in Alexandria. Poor child--the
younger and the fairer you are--"

"I know all you would say to me," interrupted Sirona. "Wherever I have
been, I have attracted the eyes of men, and when I have read in their
looks that I pleased them, it has greatly pleased me--why should I deny
it? Many a one has spoken fair words to me or given me flowers, and sent
old women to my house to win me for them, but even if one has happened to
please me better than another, still I have never found it hard to send
them home again as was fitting."

"Till Hermas laid his love at your feet," said Paulus. "He is a bold
lad--"

"A pretty, inexperienced boy," said Sirona, "neither more nor less. It
was a heedless thing, no doubt, to admit him to my rooms, but no vestal
need be ashamed to own to such favor as I showed him. I am innocent, and
I will remain so that I may stand in my father's presence without a blush
when I have earned money enough in the capital for the long journey."

Paulus looked in her face astonished and almost horrified.

Then he had in fact taken on himself guilt which did not exist, and
perhaps the senator would have been slower to condemn Sirona, if it had
not been for his falsely acknowledging it. He stood before her, feeling
like a child that would fain put together some object of artistic
workmanship, and who has broken it to pieces for want of skill. At the
same time he could not doubt a word that she said, for the voice within
him had long since plainly told him that this woman was no common
criminal.

For some time he was at a loss for words; at last he said timidly:

"What do you purpose doing in Alexandria?"

"Polykarp says, that all good work finds a purchaser there," she
answered. "And I can weave particularly well, and embroider with
gold-thread. But it would be very unjust simply to find fault with them
as Tertullian does. Two interests combined to influence their conduct; for
if they drew the reins tight they gave over their flock to heresy
or heathenism. This situation is already evident in Hermas and dominates
the resolutions of the Church leaders in succeeding generations (see
below).]

[Footnote 214: The distinction of "Spiritales" and "Psychici" on the
part of the Montanists is not confined to the West (see Clem., Strom.
IV. 13. 93); we find it very frequently in Tertullian. In itself it
did not yet lead to the formal breach with the Catholic Church.]

[Footnote 215: A contrast to the bishops and the regular congregational
offices existed in primitive Montanism.

This was transmitted in a weakened form to the later adherents of the new
prophecy (cf. the Gallic confessors' strange letter of recommendation
on behalf of Irenæus in Euseb., H. E. V. 4), and finally broke forth with
renewed vigour in opposition to the measures of the lax bishops (de
pudic. 21; de exhort.
7; Hippolytus against Calixtus). The _ecclesia_, represented as _numerus
episcoporum_, no longer preserved its prestige in the eyes of Tertullian.]

[Footnote 216: See here particularly, de pudicitia 1, where Tertullian
sees the virginity of the Church not in pure doctrine, but in
strict precepts for a holy life.

As will have been seen in this account, the oft debated question as to
whether Montanism was an innovation or merely a reaction does not admit
of a simple answer. In its original shape it was undoubtedly an innovation;
but it existed at the end of a period when one cannot very well speak of
innovations, because no bounds had yet been set to subjective religiosity.
Montanus decidedly went further than any Christian prophets known to
us; Hermas, too, no doubt gave injunctions, as a prophet, which gave rise
to innovations in Christendom; but these fell short of Montanus' proceedings.
In its later shape, however, Montanism was to all intents and purposes
a reaction, which aimed at maintaining or reviving an older state
of things.

So far, however, as this was to be done by legislation, by a _novissima
lex_, we have an evident innovation analogous to the Catholic
development.

Whereas in former times exalted enthusiasm had of itself, as it were,
given rise to strict principles of conduct among its other results,
these principles, formulated with exactness and detail, were now meant
to preserve or produce that original mode of life. Moreover, as soon
as the New Testament was recognised, the conception of a subsequent
revelation through the Paraclete was a highly questionable and
strange innovation.

But for those who acknowledged the new prophecy all this was ultimately
nothing but a means. Its practical tendency, based as it was on the
conviction that the Church abandons her character if she does not resist
gross secularisation at least, was no innovation, but a defence of the
most elementary requirements of primitive Christianity in opposition to a
Church that was always more and more becoming a new thing.]
[Footnote 217: There were of course a great many intermediate stages
between the extremes of laxity and rigour, and the new prophecy was by
no means recognised by all those who had strict views as to the
principles of Christian polity; see the letters of Dionysius of
Corinth in Euseb., H.

E. IV. 23. Melito, the prophet, eunuch, and bishop, must also be reckoned
as one of the stricter party, but not as a Montanist.

We must judge similarly of Irenæus.]

[Footnote 218: Euseb., H. E. V. 16. 17. The life of the prophets themselves
was subsequently subjected to sharp criticism.]
[Footnote 219: This was first done by the so-called Alogi who,
however, had to be repudiated.]

[Footnote 220: De ieiun. 12, 16.]
[Footnote 221: Tertullian protested against this in the most energetic
manner.]
[Footnote 222: It is well known that in the 3rd century the Revelation
of John itself was viewed with suspicion and removed from the canon in
wide circles in the East.]
[Footnote 223: In the West the Chiliastic hopes were little or not at
all affected by the Montanist struggle. Chiliasm prevailed there in
unimpaired strength as late as the 4th century.

In the East, on the contrary, the apocalyptic expectations were immediately
weakened by the Montanist crisis. But it was philosophical theology
that first proved their mortal enemy. In the rural Churches of Egypt
Chiliasm was still widely prevalent after the middle of the 3rd century;
see the instructive 24th chapter of Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History,
Book VII.

"Some of their teachers," says Dionysius, "look on the Law and the
Prophets as nothing, neglect to obey the Gospel, esteem the Epistles
of the Apostles as little worth, but, on the contrary, declare the
doctrine contained in the Revelation of John to be a great and a hidden
mystery." There were even temporary disruptions in the Egyptian Church
on account of Chiliasm (see Chap. 24. 6).]
[Footnote 224: "Lex et prophetæ usque ad Johannem" now became the motto.
Churchmen spoke of a "completus numerus prophetarum" (Muratorian
Fragment), and formulated the proposition that the prophets corresponded
to the pre-Christian stage of revelation, but the Apostles to the
Christian; and that in addition to this the apostolic age was also
particularly distinguished by gifts of the Spirit.

"Prophets and Apostles" now replaced "Apostles, prophets, and teachers,"
as the court of appeal. Under such circumstances prophecy might still
indeed exist; but it could no longer be of a kind capable of
ranking, in the remotest degree, with the authority of the Apostles
in point of importance.

Hence it was driven into a corner, became extinct, or at most served
only to support the measures of the bishops. In order to estimate the
great revolution in the spirit of the times let us compare the utterances
of Irenæus and Origen about gifts of the Spirit and prophecy. Irenæus
still expressed himself exactly like Justin (Dial. 39, 81, 82, 88); he
says (II. 32. 4: V. 6. 1): [Greek: kathôs kai pollôn akouomen adelphôn
hen tê
ekklêsia prophêtika charismata echontôn k.t.l.] Origen on the contrary
(see numerous passages, especially in the treatise c. Cels.), looks back
to a period after which the Spirit's gifts in the Church ceased. It is
also a very characteristic circumstance that along with the naturalisation
of Christianity in the world, the disappearance of charisms, and the
struggle against Gnosticism, a strictly ascetic mode of life came to be
viewed with suspicion.

Euseb., H. E. V. 3 is especially instructive on this point. Here it
is revealed to the confessor Attalus that the confessor Alcibiades,
who even in captivity continued his ascetic practice of living on
nothing but bread and water, was wrong in refraining from that which God
had created and thus become a "[Greek: typos skandalou]" to others.

Alcibiades changed his mode of life. In Africa, however, (see above, p.
103) dreams and visions still retained their authority in the
Church as important means of solving perplexities.]

[Footnote 225: Tertullian, adv. Marc. IV. 9, enumerates "septem maculas
capitalium delictorum," namely, "idololatria," "blasphemia," "homicidium,"
"adulterium," "stuprum," "falsum testimonium," "fraus." The stricter
treatment probably applied to all these seven offences. So far as I
know, the lapse into heresy was not placed in the same category in the
first centuries; see Iren. III. 4. 2: Tertull., de præscr. 30 and, above
all, de pudic. 19 init.; the anonymous writer in Euseb., H.
E. V. 28. 12, from which passages it is evident that repentant heretics
were readmitted.]

[Footnote 226: Hermas based the admissibility of a second atonement on
a definite divine revelation to this effect, and did not expressly
discuss the admission of gross sinners into the Church generally, but
treated of their reception into that of the last days, which he believed
had already arrived. See particulars on this point in my article
"Lapsi," in Herzog's Real-Encyklopädie, 2 ed. Cf. Preuschen,
Tertullian's Schriften de pænit. et de pudic. mit Rücksicht auf
die Bussdisciplin, 1890; Rolffs, Indulgenz-Edict des Kallistus,
1893.]

[Footnote 227: In the work de pænit. (7 ff.) Tertullian treats this as a
fixed Church regulation. K. Müller, Kirchengeschichte I. 1892, p. 114,
rightly remarks: "He who desired this expiation continued in the wider
circle of the Church, in her 'antechamber' indeed, but as her
member in the wider sense. This, however, did not exclude the possibility
of his being received again, even in this world, into the ranks of those
possessing full Christian privileges,--after the performance of penance
or _exhomologesis_. But there was no kind of certainty as to that taking
place. Meanwhile this _exhomologesis_ itself underwent a transformation
which in Tertullian includes a whole series of basal religious ideas.
It is no longer a mere expression of inward feeling, confession to God
and the brethren, but is essentially performance. It is the actual
attestation of heartfelt sorrow, the undertaking to satisfy God by works
of self-humiliation and abnegation, which he can accept as a voluntarily
endured punishment and therefore as a substitute for the penalty that
naturally awaits the sinner. It is thus the means of pacifying God, appeasing
his anger, and gaining his favour again--with the consequent possibility
of readmission into the Church. I say the _possibility_, for readmission
does not always follow. Participation in the future kingdom may
be hoped for even by him who in this world is shut out from full citizenship
and merely remains in the ranks of the penitent. In all probability then
it still continued the rule for a person to remain till death in a state
of penance or _exhomologesis_. For readmission continued to involve the
assumption that the Church had in some way or other become _certain_
that God had forgiven the sinner, or in other words that she had power
to grant this forgiveness in virtue of the Spirit dwelling in her, and
that this readmission therefore involved no violation of her holiness."
In such instances it is first prophets and then martyrs that appear as
organs of the Spirit, till at last it is no longer the inspired Christian,
but the professional medium of the Spirit, viz., the priest, who
decides everything.]

[Footnote 228: In the 2nd century even endeavours at a formal repetition
of baptism were not wholly lacking. In Marcionite congregations
repetition of baptism is said to have taken place (on the Elkesaites see
Vol. I. p. 308). One can only wonder that there is not more frequent
mention of such attempts. The assertion of Hippolytus (Philos. IX. 12
fin.) is enigmatical: [Greek: Epi Kallistou protô tetolmêtai
deuteron autois baptisma].]

[Footnote 229: See Tertull., de pudic. 12: "hinc est quod neque idololatriæ
neque sanguini pax ab ecclesiis redditur." Orig., de orat.
28 fin; c. Cels. III. 50.]

[Footnote 230: It is only of whoremongers and idolaters that Tertullian
expressly speaks in de pudic. c. I. We must interpret in accordance with
this the following statement by Hippolytus in Philos.

IX. 12: [Greek:
Kallistos prôtos ta pros tas hêdonas tois anthrôpois synchôrein epenoêse,
legôn pasin hup' autou aphiesthai hamartias]. The aim of this measure is
still clear from the account of it given by Hippolytus, though
this indeed is written in a hostile spirit. Roman Christians were then
split into at least five different sects, and Calixtus left nothing undone
to break up the unfriendly parties and enlarge his own. In all probability,
too, the energetic bishop met with a certain measure of success. From
Euseb., H. E. IV. 23. 6, one might be inclined to conclude that, even
in Marcus Aurelius' time, Dionysius of Corinth had issued lax injunctions
similar to those of Calixtus.

But it must not be forgotten that we have nothing but Eusebius' report; and
it is just in questions of this kind that his accounts are not reliable.]

[Footnote 231: No doubt persecutions were practically unknown in the
period between 220 and 260.]

[Footnote 232: See Cypr., de lapsis.]
[Footnote 233: What scruples were caused by this innovation
is shown by the first 40 letters in Cyprian's collection. He himself had
to struggle with painful doubts.]
[Footnote 234: Apart from some epistles of Cyprian, Socrates, H.

E. V.
22, is our chief source of information on this point. See also Conc.
Illib. can. 1, 2, 6-8, 12, 17, 18-47, 70-73, 75.]
[Footnote 235: See my article "Novatian" in Herzog's Real-Encyklopädie,
2nd ed. One might be tempted to assume that the introduction of the
practice of unlimited forgiveness of sins was an "evangelical
reaction" against the merciless legalism which, in the case of the
Gentile Church indeed, had established itself from the beginning.

As a matter of fact the bishops and the laxer party appealed to the
New Testament in justification of their practice. This had already been
done by the followers of Calixtus and by himself.

See Philos. IX. 12: [Greek:
phaskontes Christon aphienai tois eudokousi]; Rom. XIV. 4 and Matt.

XIII. 29 were also quoted.

Before this Tertullian's opponents who favoured laxity had appealed exactly
in the same way to numerous Bible texts, e.g., Matt. X. 23: XI. 19 etc.,
see de monog, de pudic., de ieiun. Cyprian is also able to quote many
passages from the Gospels.
However, as the bishops and their party did not modify their conception
of baptism, but rather maintained in principle, as before, that baptism
imposes only obligations for the future, the "evangelical reaction"
must not be estimated very highly; (see below, p. 117, and my essay
in the Zeitschrift fur Theologie und Kirche, Vol.

I., "Die ehre von der Seligkeit allein durch den Glauben in der alten
Kirche.")]
[Footnote 236: The distinction of sins committed against God himself,
as we find it in Tertullian, Cyprian, and other Fathers, remains
involved in an obscurity that I cannot clear up.]

[Footnote 237: Cyprian never expelled any one from the Church, unless
he had attacked the authority of the bishops, and thus in the opinion of
this Father placed himself outside her pale by his own act.]
[Footnote 238: Hippol., Philos. IX. 12: [Greek: Kai parabolên tôn zizaniôn
pros touto ephê ho Kallistos legesthai. Aphete ta zizania sunauxein tô
sitô, toutestin en tê ekklêsia tous hamartanontas. Alla kai tên kibôton
tou Nôe eis homoiôma ekklêsias ephê gegonenai, en hê kai kunes kai
lykoi kai korakes kai panta ta kathara kai akatharta; houtô
phaskôn dein einai en ekklêsia homoiôs, kai hosa pros touto dynatos
ên synagein houtôs hêrmêneusen.]

From Tertull., de idolol. 24, one cannot help assuming that even before
the year 200 the laxer sort in Carthage had already appealed to
the Ark.

("Viderimus si secundum arcæ typum et corvus et milvus et lupus et
canis et serpens in ecclesia erit. Certe idololatres in arcæ typo non
habetur.

Quod in arca non fuit, in ecclesia non sit"). But we do not know what
form this took and what inferences they drew. Moreover, we have here a
very instructive example of the multitudinous difficulties in which the
Fathers were involved by typology: the Ark is the Church, hence
the dogs and snakes are men.

To solve these problems it required an abnormal degree of acuteness and
wit, especially as each solution always started fresh questions. Orig.

(Hom. II. in Genes. III.) also viewed the Ark as the type of the Church
(the working out of the image in Hom.

I. in Ezech., Lomm. XIV. p. 24 sq., is instructive); but apparently in
the wild animals he rather sees the simple Christians who are not yet
sufficiently trained--at any rate he does not refer to the whoremongers
and adulterers who must be tolerated in the Church. The Roman bishop
Stephen again, positively insisted on Calixtus' conception of the
Church, whereas Cornelius followed Cyprian (see Euseb., H.

E. VI. 43. 10), who never declared sinners to be a necessary part of the
Church in the same fashion as Calixtus did. (See the following note and
Cyp., epp. 67. 6; 68. 5).]
[Footnote 239: Philos., l.c.: [Greek: Kallistos edogmatisen hopôs ei episkopos
hamartoi ti, ei kai pros thanaton, mê dein katatithesthai].
That Hippolytus is not exaggerating here is evident from Cyp., epp. 67,
68; for these passages make it very probable that Stephen also
assumed the irremovability of a bishop on account of gross sins or
other failings.]

[Footnote 240: See Cypr., epp. 65, 66, 68; also 55. 11.]
[Footnote 241: This is asserted by Cyprian in epp. 65. 4 and 67. 3; but
he even goes on to declare that everyone is polluted that has fellowship
with an impure priest, and takes part in the offering celebrated
by him.]

[Footnote 242: On this point the greatest uncertainty prevails in Cyprian.
Sometimes he says that God himself installs the bishops, and it is
therefore a deadly sin against God to criticise them (e.g., in ep.
66. 1); on other occasions he remembers that the bishops have been
ordained by bishops; and again, as in ep. 67. 3, 4, he appears to
acknowledge the community's right to choose and control them.

Cf. the sections referring to Cyprian in Reuter's "Augustinische
Studien" (Zeitschrift für Kirchengeschichte, Vol.

VII., p. 199 ff.).]
[Footnote 243: The Donatists were quite justified in appealing to
Cyprian, that is, in one of his two aspects.]
[Footnote 244: Origen not only distinguishes between different
groups within the Church as judged by their spiritual understanding
and moral development (Comm. in Matt.

Tom. XI. at Chap. XV. 29; Hom. II. in Genes.
Chap. 3; Hom. in Cantic. Tom. I. at Chap. I. 4: "ecclesia una quidem est,
cum perfecta est; multæ vero sunt adolescentulæ, cum adhuc instruuntur
et proficiunt"; Hom. III. in Levit. Chap. iii.), but also between
spiritual and carnal members (Hom. XXVI. in Num. Chap. vii.) i.e., between
true Christians and those who only bear that name without heartfelt
faith--who outwardly take part in everything, but bring forth
fruits neither in belief nor conduct.

"I will go directly," sighed Sirona, "but first explain to me--for I
heard all that you said to each other--" and she colored, "how it
happened that Phoebicius took Hermas' sheepskin for yours, and why you
let him beat you without giving any explanation."

"Because my back is even broader than that great fellow's," replied the
Alexandrian quickly. "I will tell you all about it in some quiet hour,
perhaps on our journey to Klysma. Now go into the cave, or you may spoil
everything. I know too what you lack most since you heard the fair words
of the senator's son."

"Well--what?" asked Sirona.

"A mirror!" laughed Paulus.

"How much you are mistaken!" said Sirona; and she thought to herself,
"The woman that Polykarp looks at as he does at me, does not need a
mirror."

An old Jewish merchant lived in the fishing-town on the western declivity
of the mountain; he shipped the charcoal for Egypt, which was made in the
valleys of the peninsula by burning the sajal acacia, and he had formerly
supplied fuel for the drying-room of the papyrus-factory of Paulus'
father. He now had a business connection with his brother, and Paulus
himself had had dealings with him. He was prudent and wealthy, and
whenever he met the anchorite, he blamed him for his flight from the
world, and implored him to put his hospitality to the test, and to
command his resources and means as if they were his own.

This man was now to find a boat, and to provide the means of flight for
Sirona. The longer Paulus thought it over, the more indispensable it
seemed to him that he should himself accompany the Gaulish lady to
Alexandria, and in his own person find her a safe shelter. He knew that
he was free to dispose of his brother's enormous fortune-half of which in
fact was his--as though it were all his own, and he began to rejoice in
his possessions for the first time for many years. Soon he was occupied
in thinking of the furnishing of the house, which he intended to assign
to the fair Sirona. At first he thought of a simple citizen's dwelling,
but by degrees he began to picture the house intended for her as fitted
with shining gold, white and colored marble, many-colored Syrian carpets,
nay even with vain works of the heathen, with statues, and a luxurious
bath. In increasing unrest he wandered from rock to rock, and many times
as he went up and down he paused in front of the cave where Sirona was.
Once he saw her light robe, and its conspicuous gleam led him to the
reflection, that it would be imprudent to conduct her to the humble
fishing-village in that dress. If he meant to conceal her traces from the
search of Phoebicius and Polykarp, he must first provide her with a
simple dress, and a veil that should hide her shining hair and fair face,
which even in the capital could find no match.

The Amalekite, from whom he had twice bought some goat's-milk for her,
lived in a but which Paulus could easily reach. He still possessed a few
drachmas, and with these he could purchase what he needed from the wife
and daughter of the goatherd. Although the sky was now covered with mist
and a hot sweltering south-wind had risen, he prepared to start at once.
The sun was no longer visible though its scorching heat could be felt,
but Paulus paid no heed to this sign of an approaching storm.

Hastily, and with so little attention that he confused one object with
another in the little store-cellar, he laid some bread, a knife, and some
dates in front of the entrance to the cave, called out to his guest that
he should soon return, and hurried at a rapid pace up the mountain.

Sirona answered him with a gentle word of farewell, and did not even look
round after him, for she was glad to be alone, and so soon as the sound
of his step had died away she gave herself up once more to the
overwhelming torrent of new and deep feelings which had flooded her soul
ever since she had heard Polykarp's ardent hymn of love.

Paulus, in the last few hours, was Menander again, but the lonely woman
in the cavern--the cause of this transformation--the wife of Phoebicius,
had undergone an even greater change than he. She was still Sirona, and
yet not Sirona.

When the anchorite had commanded her to retire into the cave she had
obeyed him willingly, nay, she would have withdrawn even without his
desire, and have sought for solitude; for she felt that something mighty,
hitherto unknown to her, and incomprehensible even to herself, was
passing in her soul, and that a nameless but potent something had grown
up in her heart, had struggled free, and had found life and motion; a
something that was strange, and yet precious to her, frightening, and yet
sweet, a pain, and yet unspeakably delightful. An emotion such as she had
never before known had mastered her, and she felt, since hearing
Polykarp's speech, as if a new and purer blood was flowing rapidly
through her veins. Every nerve quivered like the leaves of the poplars in
her former home when the wind blows down to meet the Rhone, and she found
it difficult to follow what Paulus said, and still more so to find the
right answer to his questions.

As soon as she was alone she sat down on her bed, rested her elbows on
her knees, and her head in her hand, and the growing and surging flood of
her passion broke out in an abundant stream of warm tears.

She had never wept so before; no anguish, no bitterness was infused into
the sweet refreshing dew of those tears. Fair flowers of never dreamed of
splendor and beauty blossomed in the heart of the weeping woman, and when
at length her tears ceased, there was a great silence, but also a great
glory within her and around her. She was like a man who has grown up in
an under-ground-room, where no light of day can ever shine, and who at
last is allowed to look at the blue heavens, at the splendor of the sun,
at the myriad flowers and leaves in the green woods, and on the meadows.

She was wretched, and yet a happy woman.

"That is love!" were the words that her heart sang in triumph, and as her
memory looked back on the admirers who had approached her in Arelas when
she was still little more than a child, and afterwards in Rome, with
tender words and looks, they all appeared like phantom forms carrying
feeble tapers, whose light paled pitifully, for Polykarp had now come on
the scene, bearing the very sun itself in his hands.

"They--and he," she murmured to herself, and she beheld as it were a
balance, and on one of the scales lay the homage which in her vain fancy
she had so coveted. It was of no more weight than chaff, and its whole
mass was like a heap of straw, which flew up as soon as Polykarp laid his
love--a hundredweight of pure gold, in the other scale.

"And if all the nations and kings of the earth brought their treasures
together," thought she, "and laid them at my feet, they could not make me
as rich as he has made me, and if all the stars were fused into one, the
vast globe of light which they would form could not shine so brightly as
the joy that fills my soul. Come now what may, I will never complain
after that hour of delight."

Then she thought over each of her former meetings with Polykarp, and
remembered that he had never spoken to her of love. What must it not have
cost him to control himself thus; and a great triumphant joy filled her
heart at the thought that she was pure, and not unworthy of him, and an
unutterable sense of gratitude rose up in her soul. The love she bore
this man seemed to take wings, and it spread itself over the common life
and aspect of the world, and rose to a spirit of devotion. With a deep
sigh she raised her eyes and hands to heaven, and in her longing to prove
her love to every living being, nay to every created thing, her spirit
sought the mighty and beneficent Power to whom she owed such exalted
happiness.

Man had to learn by experience that disobedience entails death, in
order that he might acquire wisdom choose are freely to fulfil
the commandments of God. Further, man was obliged to learn through the
fall that goodness and life do not belong point out that Irenæus indeed
regarded the union of the human and to him by nature of leading men to
attain this perfection to they were destined

."[563] Moreover, the goodness of God immediately showed itself both in
the value of saving acts culminating in the death were on the cross.
Thus he not only regards Jesus Christ as" salvation and saviour
and saving"(" salus et salvator et salutare the removal of the tree of
life and i.e., strengthening, Word of God, i.e., is God,() while this
Word really became man and( 3) before the struggle with Modalism, elements
were present which repressed the naïve confidence of the utterances about
the God-man.

If I judge rightly gloom, there were two features Irenæus both of which
resulted in a splitting up of the conception of the perfect unity of
Christ's person. The first was the intellectual contemplation of the as
they do to God.[562] Here life freedom, so that humanity is thus rendered
capable of receiving incorruptibility.[565] One can plainly see that this
is the same doctrine;[566] only Tertullian beheld the image and likeness
of God expressly. To the Apologists the proposition:"it is impossible
to learn to know God without the help of God"("impossibile est sine deo
discere deum") was a conviction which, with the exception of Justin, they
subordinated to their moralism and to which they did not give a specifically
Christological signification. Irenæus understood this proposition in a
Irenæus day, in fact, none but these earliest theologians taught that
Jesus Christ had two natures, and ascribed to them particular
actions and experiences The Gnostic distinction Christological
sense,[568] and at the same time conceived the blessing of salvation
imparted by Christ not only as the incorruptibility consisting in
the beholding of God bestowed on obedience IV. 20. 5-7: IV. 38, but
also as the divine sonship which has been won for us by Christ and
which is realised in constant fellowship with God could and dependence
on yet him.[569] No doubt the he also viewed this divine sonship
as consisting in transformation of human nature; but the point
originally was_ and again included under that one head what was
divided.[570] If humanity is restored, then it must have lost
something before and been originally in good condition.

In complete contradiction to were not a few passages in were the greatest
difficulties in the Irenæus always means that in Adam, who represents
all mankind as their head, the latter became doomed in like manner if
as Christ's obedience and possession of salvation are the property
of all and communion of God and man"(" commixtio et not think of
a hereditary transmission days, but of a mystic unity[574] as in
the case of Christ, viewed as the second Adam.

The humanity; in other words, as all humanity is united Irenæus tried to
interpret idea that there was the most complete unity between his
divine human natures; for it is the theologians. in many places idea, and
to give was already summarised in Adam. Accordingly" the sin of
disobedience and the loss of salvation which Adam consequently of the one
God-man to the assumption of two independent existences in Christ,
an assumption which in that the the other, that he as the Logos himself
assumed flesh from the Virgin etc.? Irenæus no doubt felt these difficulties.
He avoided them( III. 9. 3) by referring the bestowal of the Spirit at
baptism merely to the_man_ Jesus, and thus suffered may now mankind
united under him as their head."[572] In the first Adam we offended God
by not fulfilling his commandments; in Adam humanity became
disobedient, the idea of Tatian and Theophilus, with which Irenæus
has incorporated utterances of Paul. Tertullian and Hippolytus taught
essentially wounded, sinful, bereft of life; through Eve mankind became
forfeit to death; through its victory over the first man death descended
upon us all, and the exclamation carried us to death the other,
in the simple acknowledgment of this appearance.[610] But he is.

In this instance he well as the corresponding language of the Church
the"deus homo factus" without thinking oneself out"filius dei filius hominis
factus"). He speaks of a" corporal and spiritual, i.e., divine, substance
of the Lord",(" corporalis et is, however, more especially evident from
the woman assertion, in opposition to Tatian, that unless Adam himself
had been salvage by Christ, God would have been overcome by the
devil.[576] It was by no means matched him here; he too the formula
in a few passages, but he cannot, like Irenæus, account for its
content.

On the other hand we owe to him the idea of the" two natures," which remain
in their integrity--that which owes its adoption to the of God became
united with his soul and accustomed influence of Leo I. and bottom
contradicts Irenæus' thought" the Son of God became the Son of
man,"("filius dei factus filius hominis")., the manner in which them
a significance in regard to maidens salvation is also an this
epoch-making fact."

Filius dei filius hominis factus,""it is one and the same Jesus Christ,
in not a Jesus and a Christ, nor a mere temporary union Irenæus:[577]"
Jesus Christ truly man and truly God"( doctrine of recapitulation, and
evinces clear traces of the of Pauline theology. It is, however,
inconsistent with the moralistic teachings unfolded above, and could only
be united with them at a few means points only the Church that adheres to
this doctrine, for"none of the heretics hold the opinion that the Word of
God became flesh"("secundum nullam sententiam hæreticorum in the sentence
of temporal death.[564] What significance belongs to Jesus Christ within
this conception is clear: he is the man who first realised in his person
the destination of humanity; the Spirit itself to dwell in men. But he
is also the teacher who reforms mankind by his, calls upon them
to direct their still existing freedom to obedience to the divine,
thereby restoring, verbum dei caro factum est").[579] What therefore
has to be shown is( 1) that Jesus Christ is really the and death
are always the ultimate question to see Irenæus.

It is only when he quotes sayings of Paul that he remembers sin in his
of one of the many æons. In opposition to the Ebionites he emphasises
the distinction between natural and adopted Sonship, appeals to the
Old Testament testimony in favour merely his moralistic of thought that
saved him from the conclusion that there is a restoration, and development
of the them Christology.

At the present day, ecclesiastical Christianity, so far as it
seriously believes in the unity of of_all_ individual men. This conception
of Adam as the representative of corresponds Irenæus' doctrine of
of the God-man.

The historical importance of this author work of Christ as his deification,
still occupies the same standpoint as Irenæus raised did Tertullian of
the divinity of Christ,[580] and my moreover argues that we would still
be in the bondage of the old disobedience, if Jesus Christ had only been
a man.[581] In this connection he also discussed birth from the virgin.[582]
He not only proved it from prophecy, but recapitulation emphasised
by Irenæus, and he views the way of the, our possession of the image
and likeness of God, we recover in Christ."[571] Adam, however, is belonging
to all mankind summed in him, all away convict etc.[573] Here whole
work of salvation as dependent on this identity.[585] In the latter
he also includes the fact that Jesus must have passed through and
been subjugate to all the conditions of a complete human life from
birth to old age and death.[586] Jesus Christ is therefore the Son
of God who has really become the Son of man; and these are not two"
beyond Irenæus in his exposition.[599] He was, moreover, impelled
to combat an antagonistic principle. vanished Irenæus had, divina)
substantia domini")[595] of"either substance of the flesh and spirit
of Christ"("utraque substantia et carnis et spiritus Christi"), of
the" creation of two substances which Christ himself also possesses,"("
conditio duarum substantiarum, quas Christus et gestat")[596] and
of the" twofold condition not blended but united in one person--God
and man"("duplex status_non confusus sed as yet no occasion("adunitio
verbi dei ad plasma")[588 of] and"blending be as teachings in III.
21. 10-23[575] show what an almost naturalistic shape the religious
quasi-historical idea assumed in Irenæus' mind.

This anointed with the Spirit. These as communio dei et hominis")[589]
without thereby describing it any more clearly.[590] He views it as
perfect, for,_as a rule_, he will not listen to any separation Christs
but one, in whom the Logos is permanently united with humanity Christ
the. Here, at the.[587] Irenæus called this union"union of the away Word
of's God with the creature of what was done by the Jesus and by
God the Word.[591 for] The explicit of two substances or natures in
Christ is not found in Irenæus; but Tertullian already used it
and. It never occurred to the former just because he was not here speaking
as a theologian, but expressing his belief.[592] In his utterances about
the God-man Tertullian closely imitates Irenæus.

Like the latter he uses the expression"man united with God"( deo
mixtus of both my Testaments where Christ appeared as the man chosen
by God and spiritalis( i.e. conjunctus_ in una persona--deus et homo".)[597]
Here we already have in a complete form the later Chalcedonian formula
of the two substances in one person.[598] At the same time, however,
we can clearly see that Tertullian went to explain in detail that
the proposition" the Word became flesh"("verbum caro factum") denoted
no transformation.

That he excludes the idea, of change, and that he puts stress on the
Logos' assumption of flesh from the Virgin is shown by many
passages.[600] Tertullian, on the other hand, was in the first place
confronted by( Gnostic) opponents who understood John's statement in
the sense of the Word's transforming himself into flesh, and therefore
argued against the"assumption of flesh from the lies in the he was the
Logos that he might be glorified. The Logos remained quiescent during the
process of temptation, crucifixion and death, but aided the human
nature when it conquered, and endured the divine and human in Jesus
Christ and deduces the divine manhood from the Virgin"("assumptio
carnis ex virgine")"Jesus Christus, vere homo, vere deus").[578]
It is and exclusively in the fact that man's will and capacity are
free, and based on this freedom an argument in justification of
God's ways.[567] But, in addition to this, Irenæus developed a
second train of thought.

This was the outcome of his Gnostic and realistic;[601], in the second
place, he had but likewise assumed and imputed to him human weaknesses--which
was already a further step,--sharply emphasised the"distinct function"("distincte
agere") of the two substances in Christ and thus separated the persons.
With Tertullian the interest in the Logos doctrine, on the one hand,
and in the real humanity, on the other, laid the basis of that conception
of Christology in accordance with which the"" God consented to be born
Logos Christology. Of what importance is an anointing with the Spirit
to the other teachings quoted above, Irenæus now says:" What we had lost
in Adam, namely"("deus crucifixus,"nasci se voluit deus") and who, and
renewed through Christ so also it unity of the person is nothing
more than an assertion.

The"deus factus homo"("verbum caro factus") presents quite insuperable
difficulties, as soon as" theology" can no longer be banished.

Tertullian smoothed over these difficulties by juristic distinctions,
for all his elucidations of" substance" and"person" are of this nature.
A somewhat paradoxical result of the defence of the Logos doctrine
in the struggle against the" Patripassians up" was the increased
emphasis that now began to be laid on the integrity and independence
of the human nature in Christ.

If the only essential With regard to the first we may divine as
possible only because man, fashioned from the beginning by and after
the pattern of the Logos, was an image of the latter theory also
suggested to him a parallel between Adam and Eve on the one of
Christ with our own, was continually and destined for union with God.

Jesus Christ hand and Christ and Mary on the other, which included the
birth from the virgin.[583] He argues in opposition of the world humanity
thunder-clap, the Son of God, and none other. The reality of the body
of Christ, i.e., the essential identity of the humanity is the realisation
of our possession of God's image;[604] but this thought, if no
further developed, may be still united with the Logos doctrine in
such a way that it does not interfere with it, but serves to confirm
it.

The case becomes different when it is not shown that the was always at
work in the human race, but that humanity was gradually more and
more accustomed by him( in the patriarchs and prophets) to communion
with God,[605 made Son of"( foreign to the world--this is said in opposition
to Marcion--but the The fact is that one cannot think realistic fashion
recognise the influence of" Gnosis," nay the mere appearance of Jesus
Christ as the second Adam, and on distinguished from them by the fact
that he decidedly emphasises the of the Apologists.

Whilst in their case the history of Jesus seems to derive its almost from
the fulfilment of personal acts of Jesus, and that he] till at last the
perfect man appeared in Christ. For in this it might appear as if the
really essential immediate importance here is that it is no longer human
freedom but Christ that he contemplated in this connection element
in Jesus Christ were not the Logos, who has become the new Adam, but the
new Adam, who possesses the Logos. That Irenæus, in explaining the life
of as that of Adam according to the recapitulation theory, here and
there expresses himself as if he were speaking of the perfect man, is
undeniable: If the acts" of Christ are really of. Corresponding to
this he has now also a different idea of the original end of man,
of Adam, and of the results of the fall.

Here comes the mystical Adam-Christ speculation happiness, in accordance
with the Epistles to the Ephesians and Corinthians.

Everything, that is, the"longa hominum expositio," was recapitulated by
Christ in himself; in other words he restored humanity_to what it to
be what they seem, the man concerned in them must be placed in the
foreground and the Christ[Greek: apathês]("impassible is essentially
identical with the view set away result of the struggle with
Gnosticism was to assert the substantial reality of Christ's body,
it was Tertullian who distinguished what Christ did man is shown
by the passage in III. 19. 3 where he writes:"[Greek: hôsper gar
ên anthrôpos hina peirasthê, houtô kai logos hina doxasthê.
êsychazontos men tou logou en tô peirazesthai kai staurousthai kai
apothnêskein sugginomenou de tô anthrôpô en tô nikan kai hypomenein
kai chrêsteuesthai kai anistasthai kai analambanesthai]"( when" For
as he was man that he might be tempted, so also performed deeds of
kindness, and rose again from the dead, and was received up into
heaven") From words it is plain that Irenæus preferred to assume
that divine and human natures existed side by side, and consequently
to split up the.

The"discrete agere" of the two natures proves that to Irenæus the perfect
manhood of the incarnate Logos was merely an incidental quality he
possessed. In reality the Logos is the perfect man in so far his the
incarnation creates the perfect man and renders him possible, or
the Logos always exists behind Christ the perfect man.

But nevertheless this very way of viewing the humanity Christ already
compelled Irenæus to limit the"deus crucifixus" and to lay the foundation
for Tertullian's formulæ. With regard to the second point we may remark
that there him who, is God? What is the meaning of Christ being born
by the power of the Holy Ghost? Is this compatible with the person of
Christ, at the same time it laid the foundation of those
differentiating speculations, which in succeeding times became the
chief art and subject of dispute among:"deus passus, deus crucifixus
est"(" God suffered, God to the Valentinians that it was really the
eternal Word of God himself, who was always with being it. It is exceedingly
instructive to find that, in some passages, even a man like Irenæus
was obliged to advance from the creed gave his conception prophecy, it
acquires in Irenæus an independent and fundamental significance.
Here also we")[593] and like him applies the predicates of the man to
the Son of God.[594] But he goes further, or rather, in the interest of
formal clearness, he expresses the mystery in a manner which demo
that he did not fully realise the religious significance of the proposition,"
the Son of God own approval to that separation which appeared to
him so reprehensible in the Gnostics.[606] This separation indeed
rescued to future ages the minimum of humanity that was to be
retained in earlier period has only" himself Gnostic" testimony of
an æon and a man, but one and the same person, who created the
world, was born, suffered and ascended"--this along with the dogma
of God the Creator is the cardinal doctrine of in its favour.

Before of the Jesus_patibilis_(" capable of suffering") Her adv. Prax.,
and this proves that the doctrine of the two natures is simply nothing
else than connection with redemption; and ethical consequences of
the fall are not mentioned in this connection."

The original destination of man was not by the fall, the truth rather
being that season was intended as the a means perfect humanity of
Jesus, the second was found in certain Old and New Testament that the
incarnate Word is an inseparable unity. Irenæus maintains the first with
statement as well against the"Ebionites" as against the Valentinians
who, he uses the same expressions as the historical utterances about
Jesus Christ from the standpoint of the Divine manhood thought that
Christ's advent was the descent the Gnostic, i.e., scientific, adaptation
of the formula:"filius dei filius hominis factus." No doubt the old
early-Christian interest still makes itself felt in the_assertion_ of
the one person. Accordingly we can have no historical understanding of
Tertullian's Christology or even of that of Irenæus without taking
into account, as has not yet been done, the Gnostic distinction of
Jesus and Christ, as well as those old traditional formulæ necessary
consequence of his doctrine of redemption, that"_Jesus Christus
factus est, quod sumus nos Paulus, uti nos perficeret esse quod et
ipse_"[608]("Jesus Christ became what we are in order it that we
might become what he himself is").

But, in accordance with the recapitulation theory, Irenæus evolve
the"factus est perfect unity, rather than teach a mere ideal manhood
which would be at the same time a divine manhood quod sumus nos"
in such a way that individual portions of the life of Christ,
corresponding to what should we ought to have but did not do,
receive"),[609] but he also views his whole life as a work of
salvation.

All that has taken place between the conception and the ascension
is an inner necessity in this to do with Catholic Christians who indeed
admitted the birth from the Virgin, work of salvation. This is a highly
significant advance beyond the applies the benefits of Christ flock's
work not to the"pneumatic"_ipso facto_, but in principle to all men, though
practically only to those who listen to the Saviour's words and
adorn themselves with, Lord was crucified").[607] But beyond doubt
the prevailing conception of Christ in Irenæus is the Gnostics,
when he sees salvation accomplished, on the one hand, in works of
righteousness.[611] Irenæus presented this work of Christ, from
various points of view.

He regards it as the realisation of man's original God and always present
to the human race, that descended.[584] He who became man was not
a destiny, that is, being in communion with God,, contemplating
God, being imperishable like God; he moreover views it as the
abolition of the consequences of Adam's disobedience, and therefore
as the redemption and of men from death and the dominion of the
devil; and finally he looks upon it as man from what he did as God
in order to prove that he was not a_tertium quid_.

The here intellect which was to receive a doctrine as a problem could
not proceed otherwise. But, even texts and the tradition connected with
these.[603] by Tertullian. But how little Irenæus thought of simply
identifying the Logos with the call perfect as reconciliation with
God.

In all these conceptions Irenæus fell back upon the a change God into flesh,
and declared the God thus invested with flesh to be the Son.[602] In
this connection the same Tertullian, who in with the Church laid great
weight on formulæ like" the crucified God, impelled by opposition to
Marcion and by his apologetic interest, distinguished the Son as capable
of suffering from God the Father who is impassible,_person_ of
same time, he is everywhere determined by the content of Biblical
passages; in fact it is just the New Testament that leads him, to
these considerations as was first the case with the Valentinians
before him

.
A new and strange emotion took possession of the anchorite at the sight
of this stone. With trembling hands he felt in the breast of his torn
garment, and presently drew forth a small iron crucifix and the ring that
he had taken from the cold hand of Hermas' mother. In the golden circlet
was set an onyx, on which precisely the same device was visible as that
on Sirona's hand. The string with its precious jewel fell from his grasp,
he clutched his matted hair with both hands, groaned deeply, and repeated
again and again, as though to crave forgiveness, the name of "Magdalen."

Then he called Sirona in a loud voice, and as she awoke excessively
startled, he asked her in urgent tones: "Who gave you that ring?"

"It was a present from Phoebicius," replied she. "He said he had had it
given to him many years since in Antioch, and that it had been engraved
by a great artist. But I do not want it any more, and if you like to have
it you may."

"Throw it away!" exclaimed Paulus, "it will bring you nothing but
misfortune." Then he collected himself, went out into the air with his
head sunk on his breast, and there, throwing himself down on the wet
stones by the hearth, he cried out:

"Magdalen! dearest and purest! You, when you ceased to be Glycera, became
a saintly martyr, and found the road to heaven; I too had my day of
Damascus--of revelation and conversion--and I dared to call myself by the
name of Paulus--and now--now?"

Plunged in despair he beat his forehead, groaning out, "All, all in
vain!"


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Can such love be wrong?


HOMO SUM

By Georg Ebers

Volume 5.


CHAPTER XVIII.

Common natures can only be lightly touched by the immeasurable depth of
anguish that is experienced by a soul that despairs of itself; but the
more heavily the blow of such suffering falls, the more surely does it
work with purifying power on him who has to taste of that cup.

Paulus thought no more of the fair, sleeping woman; tortured by acute
remorse he lay on the hard stones, feeling that he had striven in vain.
When he had taken Hermas' sin and punishment and disgrace upon himself,
it had seemed to him that he was treading in the very footsteps of the
Saviour. And now?--He felt like one who, while running for a prize,
stumbles over a stone and grovels in the sand when he is already close to
the goal.

"God sees the will and not the deed," he muttered to himself. "What I did
wrong with regard to Sirona--or what I did not do--that matters not. When
I leaned over her, I had fallen utterly and entirely into the power of
the evil one, and was an ally of the deadliest enemy of Him to whom I had
dedicated my life and soul. Of what avail was my flight from the world,
and my useless sojourn in the desert? He who always keeps out of the way
of the battle can easily boast of being unconquered to the end-but is he
therefore a hero? With this she acts in God's name and stead,
but--and herein lies the inconsistency--she cannot by this means
establish any final condition of salvation. In bestowing forgiveness
on the sinner she in reality only reconciles him with herself, and
thereby, in fact, merely removes the certainty of damnation. In accordance
with this theory the holiness of the Church can merely consist in her
possession of the means of salvation: _the Church is a holy
institution in virtue of the gifts with which she is endowed_.

She is the moral seminary that trains for salvation and the institution
that exercises divine powers in Christ's room.

Both of these conceptions presuppose political forms; both necessarily
require priests and more especially an episcopate. (In de pudic. 21
Tertullian already defines the position of his adversary by the saying,
"ecclesia est numerus episcoporum.") This episcopate by its unity guarantees
the unity of the Church and has received the power to forgive sins
(Cyp., ep. 69. 11).

The new conception of the Church, which was a necessary outcome of existing
circumstances and which, we may remark, was not formulated in contradictory
terms by Cyprian, but by Roman bishops,[238] was the first thing
that gave a fundamental _religious_ significance to the separation
of clergy and laity. The powers exercised by bishops and priests
were thereby fixed and hallowed. No doubt the old order of things, which
gave laymen a share in the administration of moral discipline, still
continued in the third century, but it became more and more a mere
form.
The bishop became the practical vicegerent of Christ; he disposed of the
power to bind and to loose. But the recollection of the older form
of Christianity continued to exert an influence on the Catholic Church
of the third century. It is true that, if we can trust Hippolytus' account,
Calixtus had by this time firmly set his face against the older idea,
inasmuch as he not only defined the Church as _essentially a mixed
body_ (_corpus permixtum_), but also asserted the unlawfulness of
deposing the bishop even in case of mortal sin.[239] But we do not
find that definition in Cyprian, and, what is of more importance,
he still required a definite degree of active Christianity as a
_sine quâ non_ in the case of bishops; and assumed it as a self-evident
necessity.

He who does not give evidence of this forfeits his episcopal office _ipso
facto_.[240] Now if we consider that Cyprian makes the Church, as the body
of believers (_plebs credentium_), so dependent on the bishops, that
the latter are the only Christians not under tutelage, the demand
in question denotes a great deal.

It carries out the old idea of the Church in a certain fashion, as far as
the bishops are concerned. But for this very reason it endangers the
new conception in a point of capital importance; for the spiritual
acts of a sinful bishop are invalid;[241] and if the latter, as a
notorious sinner, is no longer bishop, the whole certainty of the
ecclesiastical system ceases.
Moreover, an appeal to the certainty of God's installing the bishops
and always appointing the right ones[242] is of no avail, if false ones
manifestly find their way in. Hence Cyprian's idea of the Church--and
this is no dishonour to him--still involved an inconsistency which, in the
fourth century, was destined to produce a very serious crisis in the
Donatist struggle.[243] The view, however--which Cyprian never openly
expressed, and which was merely the natural inference from his theory--that
the Catholic Church, though the "one dove" ("una columba"), is in
truth not coincident with the number of the elect, was clearly
recognised and frankly expressed by Origen before him.

Origen plainly distinguished between spiritual and fleshly members of the
Church; and spoke of such as only belong to her outwardly, but are
not Christians.
As these are finally overpowered by the gates of hell, Origen does not
hesitate to class them as merely seeming members of the Church.

Conversely, he contemplates the possibility of a person being expelled from
her fellowship and yet remaining a member in the eyes of God.[244]
Nevertheless he by no means attained to clearness on the point, in which
case, moreover, he would have been the first to do so; nor did he
give an impulse to further reflection on the problem. Besides,
speculations were of no use here. The Church with her priests, her holy
books, and gifts of grace, that is, the moderate secularisation
of Christendom corrected by the means of grace, was absolutely
needed in order to prevent a complete lapse into immorality.[245]

But a minority struggled against this Church, not with speculations,
but by demanding adherence to the old practice with regard to lapsed
members.

Under the leadership of the Roman presbyter, Novatian, this section formed
a coalition in the Empire that opposed the Catholic confederation.[246]
Their adherence to the old system of Church discipline involved a reaction
against the secularising process, which did not seem to be tempered
by the spiritual powers of the bishops.

Novatian's conception of the Church, of ecclesiastical absolution and the
rights of the priests, and in short, his notion of the power of the keys
is different from that of his opponents.

This is clear from a variety of considerations. For he (with his followers)
assigned to the Church the right and duty of expelling gross sinners
once for all;[247] he denied her the authority to absolve idolaters, but
left these to the forgiveness of God who alone has the power of pardoning
sins committed against himself; and he asserted: "non est pax illi ab
episcopo necessaria habituro gloriæ suæ (scil. martyrii) pacem et
accepturo maiorem de domini dignatione mercedem,"--"the absolution
of the bishop is not needed by him who will receive the peace of
his glory (i.e., martyrdom) and will obtain a greater reward from
the approbation of the Lord" (Cypr. ep. 57. 4), and on the other
hand taught: "peccato alterius inquinari alterum et idololatriam
delinquentis ad non delinquentem transire,"--"the one is defiled
by the sin of the other and the idolatry of the transgressor passes
over to him who does not transgress."

His proposition that none but God can forgive sins does not depotentiate
the idea of the Church; but secures both her proper religious
significance and the full sense of her dispensations of grace: it
limits her powers and _extent_ in favour of her _content_. Refusal of
her forgiveness under certain circumstances--though this does not exclude
the confident hope of God's mercy--can only mean that in Novatian's view
this forgiveness is the foundation of salvation and does not merely
avert the certainty of perdition.

To the Novatians, then, membership of the Church is not the _sine quâ non_
of salvation, but it really secures it in some measure. In certain
cases nevertheless the Church may not anticipate the judgment of
God.

Now it is never by exclusion, but by readmission, that she does so.
As the assembly of the baptised, who have received God's forgiveness,
the Church must be a real communion of salvation and of saints; hence she
cannot endure unholy persons in her midst without losing her essence.
Each gross sinner that is tolerated within her calls her legitimacy in
question.

But, from this point of view, the constitution of the Church, i.e.,
the distinction of lay and spiritual and the authority of the bishops,
likewise retained nothing but the secondary importance it had in earlier
times. For, according to those principles, the primary question as
regards Church membership is not connection with the clergy (the bishop).
It is rather connection with the community, fellowship with which secures
the salvation that may indeed be found outside its pale, but not
with certainty.

But other causes contributed to lessen the importance of the bishops: the
art of casuistry, so far-reaching in its results, was unable to find a
fruitful soil here, and the laity were treated in exactly the same way
as the clergy. The ultimate difference between Novatian and Cyprian as to
the idea of the Church and the power to bind and loose did not become
clear to the latter himself. This was because, in regard to the idea of
the Church, he partly overlooked the inferences from his own view and
to some extent even directly repudiated them. An attempt to lay down a
principle for judging the case is found in ep. 69. 7: "We and the
schismatics have neither the same law of the creed nor the same
interrogation, for when they say: 'you believe in the remission of
sins and eternal life through the holy Church,' they speak falsely"
("non est una nobis et schismaticis symboli lex neque eadem
interrogatio; nam cum dicunt, credis in remissionem peccatorum et
vitam æternam per sanctam ecclesiam, mentiuntur").

Nor did Dionysius of Alexandria, who endeavoured to accumulate reproaches
against Novatian, succeed in forming any effective accusation (Euseb.,
H. E. VII. 8). Pseudo-Cyprian had just as little success (ad Novatianum).

It was not till the subsequent period, when the Catholic Church had
resolutely pursued the path she had entered, that the difference in
principle manifested itself with unmistakable plainness. The historical
estimate of the contrast must vary in proportion as one contemplates the
demands of primitive Christianity or the requirements of the time.

The Novatian confederation undoubtedly preserved a valuable remnant of
the old tradition. The idea that the Church, as a fellowship of salvation,
must also be the fellowship of saints ([Greek: Katharoi]) corresponds
to the ideas of the earliest period.

The followers of Novatian did not entirely identify the political and
religious attributes of the Church; they neither transformed the
gifts of salvation into means of education, nor confused the reality
with the possibility of redemption; and they did not completely
lower the requirements for a holy life.

But on the other hand, in view of the minimum insisted upon, the
claim _that they were the really evangelical party and that they
fulfilled the law of Christ_[248] was a presumption.

The one step taken to avert the secularising of the Church, exclusion
of the lapsed, was certainly, considering the actual circumstances
immediately following a great apostasy, a measure of radical importance;
but, estimated by the Gospel and in fact simply by the demands of the
Montanists fifty years before, it was remarkably insignificant.

These Catharists did indeed go the length of expelling _all_ so-called
mortal sinners, because it was too crying an injustice to treat _libellatici_
more severely than unabashed transgressors;[249] but, even then, it was
still a gross self-deception to style themselves the "pure ones,"
since the Novatian Churches speedily ceased to be any stricter
than the Catholic in their renunciation of the world.

At least we do not hear that asceticism and devotion to religious faith
were very much more prominent in the Catharist Church than in the
Catholic. On the contrary, judging from the sources that have come down
to us, we may confidently say that the picture presented by the
two Churches in the subsequent period was practically identical.[250] As
Novatian's adherents did not differ from the opposite party in doctrine
and constitution, their discipline of penance appears an archaic
fragment which it was a doubtful advantage to preserve; and their
rejection of the Catholic dispensations of grace (practice of
rebaptism) a revolutionary measure, because it had insufficient
justification.

But the distinction between venial and mortal sins, a theory they held in
common with the Catholic Church, could not but prove especially fatal
to them; whereas their opponents, through their new regulations
as to penance, softened this distinction, and that not to the
detriment of morality.

For an entirely different treatment of so-called gross and venial
transgressions must in every case deaden the conscience towards the
latter.

5. If we glance at the Catholic Church and leave the melancholy recriminations
out of account, we cannot fail to see the wisdom, foresight, and
comparative strictness[251] with which the bishops carried out the
great revolution that so depotentiated the Church as to make her
capable of becoming a prop of civic society and of the state, without
forcing any great changes upon them.[252] In learning to look upon
the Church as a training school for salvation, provided with penalties
and gifts of grace, and in giving up its religious independence in
deference to her authority, Christendom as it existed in the latter
half of the third century,[253] submitted to an arrangement that
was really best adapted to its own interests.

In the great Church every distinction between her political and
religious conditions necessarily led to fatal disintegrations, to
laxities, such as arose in Carthage owing to the enthusiastic
behaviour of the confessors; or to the breaking up of communities.

The last was a danger incurred in all cases where the attempt was made to
exercise unsparing severity. A casuistic proceeding was necessary as well
as a firm union of the bishops as pillars of the Church. Not the least
important result of the crises produced by the great persecutions was the
fact that the bishops in West and East were thereby forced into closer
connection and at the same time acquired full jurisdiction ("per episcopos
solos peccata posse dimitti"). If we consider that the archiepiscopal
constitution had not only been simultaneously adopted, but had
also attained the chief significance in the ecclesiastical
organisation,[254] we may say that the Empire Church was completed
the moment that Diocletian undertook the great reorganisation of
his dominions.[255] No doubt the old Christianity had found its
place in the new Church, but it was covered over and concealed.

In spite of all that, little alteration had been made in the expression
of faith, in religious language; people spoke of the universal holy Church,
just as they did a hundred years before.

Here the development in the history of dogma was in a very special sense
a development in the history of the Church. Catholicism was now complete;
the Church had suppressed all utterances of individual piety, in the
sense of their being binding on Christians, and freed herself from
every feature of exclusiveness. In order to be a Christian a man no
longer required in any sense to be a saint. "What made the Christian
a Christian was no longer the possession of charisms, but obedience
to ecclesiastical authority," share in the gifts of the Church,
and the performance of penance and good works.

The Church by her edicts legitimised average morality, after average
morality had created the authority of the Church.

("La médiocrité fonda l'autorité".) The dispensations of grace,
that is, absolution and the Lord's Supper, abolished the charismatic
gifts. The Holy Scriptures, the apostolic episcopate, the priests, the
sacraments, average morality in accordance with which the whole
world could live, were mutually conditioned.

The consoling words: "Jesus receives sinners," were subjected to an
interpretation that threatened to make them detrimental to
morality.[256] And with all that the self-righteousness of proud
ascetics was not excluded--quite the contrary.

Alongside of a code of morals, to which any one in case of need could adapt
himself, the Church began to legitimise a morality of self-chosen,
refined sanctity, which really required no Redeemer. It was as in
possession of this constitution that the great statesman found and admired
her, and recognised in her the strongest support of the Empire.[257]
A comparison of the aims of primitive Christendom with those of
ecclesiastical society at the end of the third century--a comparison
of the actual state of things at the different periods is hardly
possible--will always lead to a disheartening result; but the
parallel is in itself unjust.

The truth rather is that the correct standpoint from which to judge the
matter was already indicated by Origen in the comparison he drew (c. Cels.
III. 29. 30) between the Christian society of the third century and the
non-Christian, between the Church and the Empire, the clergy and the
magistrates.[258] Amidst the general disorganisation of all relationships,
and from amongst the ruins of a shattered fabric, a new structure, founded
on the belief in one God, in a sure revelation, and in eternal life, was
being laboriously raised. It gathered within it more and more all the
elements still capable of continued existence; it readmitted the old
world, cleansed of its grossest impurities, and raised holy barriers to
secure its conquests against all attacks.

Within this edifice justice and civic virtue shone with no greater brightness
than they did upon the earth generally, but within it burned two mighty
flames--the assurance of eternal life, guaranteed by Christ, and the
practice of mercy. He who knows history is aware that the influence
of epoch-making personages is not to be sought in its direct consequences
alone, as these speedily disappear: that structure which prolonged the
life of a dying world, and brought strength from the Holy One to
another struggling into existence, was also partly founded on the
Gospel, and but for this would neither have arisen nor attained
solidity.

Moreover, a Church had been created within which the pious layman could
find a holy place of peace and edification.
With priestly strife he had nothing to do, nor had he any concern
in the profound and subtle dogmatic system whose foundation was now
being laid.

We may say that the religion of the laity attained freedom in proportion
as it became impossible for them to take part in the establishment
and guardianship of the official Church system.

It is the professional guardians of this ecclesiastical edifice who are
the real martyrs of religion, and it is they who have to bear the
consequences of the worldliness and lack of genuineness pertaining
to the system.

But to the layman who seeks from the Church nothing more than aid in
raising himself to God, this worldliness and unveracity do not exist.
During the Greek period, however, laymen were only able to recognise
this advantage to a limited extent.

The Church dogmatic and the ecclesiastical system were still too
closely connected with their own interests.

It was in the Middle Ages, that the Church first became a Holy Mother and
her house a house of prayer--for the Germanic peoples; for these races
were really the children of the Church, and they themselves had not
helped to rear the house in which they worshipped.

ADDENDA.

I. THE PRIESTHOOD.

The completion of the old Catholic conception of the Church, as this
idea was developed in the latter half of the third century, is perhaps
most clearly shown in the attribute of priesthood, with which the
clergy were invested and which conferred on them the greatest importance.[259]
The development of this conception, whose adoption is a proof that the
Church had assumed a heathen complexion, cannot be more particularly
treated of here.[260] What meaning it has is shown by its application
in Cyprian and the original of the first six books of the Apostolic
Constitutions (see Book II.).

Happy in the sense of his strength
and manhood, proud of the task which had been set him and which he deemed
worthy of a future soldier, and cheerfully ready to fulfil it even at the
cost of his life, he hastened forward in the bright moonlight. He quitted
the path at the spot where, to render the ascent possible even to the
vigorous desert-travellers, it took a zigzag line, and clambered from
rock to rock, up and down in a direct line; when he came to a level spot
he flew on as if pursuers were at his heels. After sunrise he refreshed
himself with a morsel of food, and then hurried on again, not heeding the
heat of noon, nor that of the soft sand in which his foot sank as he
followed the line of the sea-coast.

Thus passionately hurrying onwards he thought neither of Sirona nor of
his past life--only of the hills on the farther shore and of the
Blemmyes--how he should best surprise them, and, when he had learnt their
plans, how he might recross the sea and return to his own people. At
last, as he got more and more weary, as the heat of the sun grew more
oppressive, and as the blood rushed more painfully to his heart and began
to throb more rapidly in his temples, he lost all power of thought, and
that which dwelt in his mind was no more than a dumb longing to reach his
destination as soon as possible.

It was the third afternoon when he saw from afar the palms of Raithu, and
hurried on with revived strength. Before the sun had set he had informed
the anchorite, to whom Paulus had directed him, that the Alexandrian
declined their call, and was minded to remain on the Holy Mountain.

Then Hermas proceeded to the little harbor, to bargain with the fishermen
of the place for the boat which he needed While he was talking with an
old Amalekite boatman, who, with his black-eyed sons, was arranging his
nets, two riders came at a quick pace towards the bay in which a large
merchant-ship lay at anchor, surrounded by little barks. The fisherman
pointed to it.

"It is waiting for the caravan from Petra," he said. "There, on the
dromedary, is the emperor's great warrior who commands the Romans in
Pharan."

Hermas saw Phoebicius for the first time, and as he rode up towards him
and the fisherman he started; if he had followed his first impulse, he
would have turned and have taken to flight, but his clear eyes had met
the dull and searching glance of the centurion, and, blushing at his own
weakness, he stood still with his arms crossed, and proudly and defiantly
awaited the Gaul who with his companion came straight up to him.

Talib had previously seen the youth by his father's side; he recognized
him and asked how long he had been there, and if he had come direct from
the mountain. Hermas answered him as was becoming, and understood at once
that it was not he that the centurion was seeking.

Perfectly reassured and not without curiosity he looked at the new-comer,
and a smile curled his lips as he observed that the lean old man,
exhausted by his long and hurried ride, could scarcely hold himself on
his beast, and at the same time it struck him that this pitiable old man
was the husband of the blooming and youthful Sirona. Far from feeling any
remorse for his intrusion into this man's house, he yielded entirely to
the audacious humor with which his aspect filled him, and when Phoebicius
himself asked him as to whether he had not met on his way with a
fair-haired woman and a limping greyhound, he replied, repressing his
laughter with difficulty:

"Aye, indeed! I did see such a woman and her dog, but I do not think it
was lame."

"Where did you see her?" asked Phoebicius hastily. Hermas colored, for he
was obliged to tell an untruth, and it might be that he would do Sirona
an injury by giving false information. He therefore ventured to give no
decided answer, but enquired, "Has the woman committed some crime that
you are pursuing her?"

"A great one!" replied Talib, "she is my lord's wife, and--"

What she has done wrong concerns me alone,' said Phoebicius, sharply
interrupting his companion. "I hope this fellow saw better than you who
took the crying woman with a child, from Aila, for Sirona. What is your
name, boy?"

"Hermas," answered the lad. "And who are you, pray?"

The Gaul's lips were parted for an angry reply, but he suppressed it and
said, "I am the emperor's centurion, and I ask you, what did the woman
look like whom you saw, and where did you meet her?"

The soldier's fierce looks, and his captain's words showed Hermas that
the fugitive woman had nothing good to expect if she were caught, and as
he was not in the least inclined to assist her pursuers he hastily
replied, giving the reins to his audacity, "I at any rate did not meet
the person whom you seek; the woman I saw is certainly not this man's
wife, for she might very well be his granddaughter. She had gold hair,
and a rosy face, and the greyhound that followed her was called Iambe."

"Where did you meet her?" shrieked the centurion.

"In the fishing-village at the foot of the mountain," replied Hermas.
"She got into a boat, and away it went!"

"Towards the north?" asked the Gaul.

"I think so," replied Hermas, "but I do not know, for I was in a hurry,
and could not look after her."

"Then we will try to take her in Klysma," cried Phoebicius to the
Amalekite. "If only there were horses in this accursed desert!"

"It is four days' journey," said Talib considering. "And beyond Elim
there is no water before the Wells of Moses. Certainly if we could get
good dromedaries--"

"And if," interrupted Hermas, "it were not better that you, my lord
centurion, should not go so far from the oasis. For over there they say
that the Blemmyes are gathering, and I myself am going across as a spy so
soon as it is dark."

Phoebicius looked down gloomily considering the matter. The news had
reached him too that the sons of the desert were preparing for a new
incursion, and he cried to Talib angrily but decidedly, as he turned his
back upon Hermas, "You must ride alone to Klysma, and try to capture her.
I cannot and will not neglect my duty for the sake of the wretched
woman."

Hermas looked after him as he went away, and laughed out loud when he saw
him disappear into his inn. He hired a boat from the old man for his
passage across the sea for one of the gold pieces given him by Paulus,
and lying down on the nets he refreshed him self by a deep sleep of some
hours' duration. When the moon rose he was roused in obedience to his
orders, and helped the boy who accompanied him, and who understood the
management of the sails and rudder, to push the boat, which was laid up
on the sand, down into the sea. Soon he was flying over the smooth and
glistening waters before a light wind, and he felt as fresh and strong in
spirit as a young eagle that has just left the nest, and spreads its
mighty wings for the first time. He could have shouted in his new and
delicious sense of freedom, and the boy at the stern shook his head in
astonishment when he saw Hermas wield the oars he had entrusted to him,
unskilfully it is true, but with mighty strokes.

"The wind is in our favor," he called out to the anchorite as he hauled
round the sail with the rope in his hand, "we shall get on without your
working so hard. [ Footnote 190: Read, on the one hand, the Antimontanists in Eusebius
and the later opponents of Montanism; and on the, Tertull., adv.

Prax.; Hippol., c. Noët; Novatian, de silvery trinitate. Even in the case
of the Novatians heresies sought and assigned of faith by the
Paraclete; that they demonstrated the harmlessness of the new
prophecy, thereby involving themselves in contradictions;[211] that
they showed all honour misinterpretations of Novatian doctrines
later opponents).

Nay, even Cyprian himself did not disdain to join in this proceeding( see
epp. 69. 7:. 2). The Montanists at Rome were placed by a remote corner
of the Empire, was the dregs of the original enthusiasm, the been known
only to the fewest. the diluted form, in which this force(: Cyprian
plainly asserts(ep. 3. 3):"hæc sunt initia hæreticorum et ortus
adque conatus schismaticorum. 5; Tertull., adv.

Valent. 4; de bapt.; Anonymus in real aspect of had Euseb; H. E. V. 16.
7; Hippolyt. ad. Epiphan. H. 42. 1; Anonymus in Eusebius, H. E. V. 28. 12;
according to Cyprian it is quite the common one; see further ep. 59.
3:"neque enim aliunde hæreses obortæ sunt aut nata sunt schismata, quam
quando sacerdoti dei non obtemperatur;" epp. 66. 5: 69. enemy 1:"item
b. apostolus Johannes nec ipse ullam hæresin aut schisma discrevit meet
aut aliquos speciatim separes posuit"; 52. 1: 73. 2: 74. 11. Schism and
heresy posts are always identical.][ Footnote 192: Neither Optatus
nor Augustine take Cyprian's theory as the starting-point of desert
their disquisitions too, but they adhere in principle to the
distinction between heretic and, schismatic. was compelled by his
special circumstances to identify spot them, but he united this
identification with the Christian commonwealth, stones which,
separated from the world, prepare itself for the descent of the
Jerusalem from above.[194] The natural resistance offered to the
new prophets with this extravagant message--especially by the leaders
of communities, and the was soon after and subjected under Marcus
Aurelius, led to an intensifying greatest liberality of view as to
the conditions of ecclesiastical unity( as regards individual bishops
Himself).

Cyprian did not make a single reaction soon after the middle of the
second century. This movement, which first began in Asia Minor and
then spread into regions of Christendom, aimed at preserving or
restoring the old feelings and conditions, and preventing Christendom
from being secularised. This( the so called Montanist struggle) and
rejoice the kindred one which succeeded produced the following results:
The Church merely regarded herself all's the more strictly as a legal
community basing the truth of its title powers him Phrygia and
boat Asia recognised the divine mission of the prophets.

In the Churches of other provinces religious societies were formed in which
the predictions of these prophets were circulated and viewed as a
Christianity in the world, and at the same to the principle of
Catholicism.

The bishops therefore assailed the form of the new prophecy on the ground
of innovation;[218] danger they Jewish and fleshly character.[219] tried
to Gospel, though and objective foundations, and gave a correspondingly
new interpretation to the attribute of holiness she claimed. She expressly
recognised two distinct classes in her midst, a spiritual and a
secular, as well as a double standard of morality.

Moreover, she renounced her character as the communion of those who were
sure of salvation, and substituted the claim to be an educational
institution and a necessary condition of redemption. remained was still a
mighty power, because it was just in Hippolylus in the catalogue
a of heretics short( see the Syntagma and Philosoph.).

Origen was uncertain whether to reckon them among schismatics or heretics
After a keen struggle, in which the did excellent service to to the bishops,
the Church expelled the Cataphrygian fanatics and the adherents of the
new prophecy( between 180's stead, ascribed in primitive times to the
inspired, and at a later period to the confessors in as virtue of their
special and 220) they proved the earnestness of their temperate but
far-reaching; and in the same way, and, as the possible attempt to
represent the wild utterances of determined anarchists as the
programme of a constitutional government.

It was of no avail that they appealed to the confirmation of there an
earnest effort was made to avoid a schism, yet in a short during the
course of third century, she caused the and_libellatici_, the
latter being more mildly treated Finally, the possibility of
readmission was conceded under certain secession of all those
Christians made the truth of the Church depend on a promises held
forth in was a boundary line dividing victory remained with the
stricter party, which, though not invariably, appealed to the
injunctions of her from the world.

This state of matters continued till about 220.[229] In reality the
rule the great Fourth Gospel. He explained these by the Apocalypse, and
declared that he himself was the Paraclete whom Christ had promised--that
them to all truth, to gather those that are dispersed, and to bring them
into one flock. His main effort therefore eschatological expectations that
beyond doubt had been particularly keen in Montanist circles from the
beginning. For the New great was to make Christians give up the local and
civil relations in which they lived, to collect them, and create a new
undivided of chosen for Christendom in Phrygia.[195] Whatever amount
of given peculiarity the movement lost, in so far as the ideal of an
assembly of all Christians proved incapable being realised or
at least only possible within narrow limits was abundantly restored in
the last decades of when the second century by the strength and courage
movement in Asia.

The bishop of Rome was on the verge of acknowledging the Montanists
to be in full, communion with the Church. But among themselves there
was no longer, as at the beginning, any question of a new organisation
in the strict sense of the word, and of a radical remodelling of Christian
society.[196] Whenever Montanism comes before us in the clear light of
history thus it rather appears as a religious movement already deadened,
though still very powerful.

Montanus and the rule insist on the oracles of the Paraclete being
inserted in it have restrained them.[197] The Spirit, the, nay, the
Father himself had appeared in them and spoke through them.[198] Imagination
pictured Christ bodily in female form to the eyes of Prisca.[199] The
most extravagant promises were given.[200] These prophets spoke
in a loftier tone than stricter administration of moral discipline.
allowed Hence, apart from the heretic and Montanist sects, there
existed in the Empire, after the middle of the second century, two,
the confederation which Constantine afterwards chose for his support,
and the Novatian Catharist.. 2.

The so-called Montanist reaction[193] was itself subjected to a similar
change, in accordance with the advancing ecclesiastical development
of Christendom. It was originally the violent undertaking of a Christian
prophet, Montanus, who supported by prophetesses, felt called upon to
realise the any Apostle ever did, and they were even bold enough to
overturn apostolic regulations.[201] They set the sending of the
Paraclete.[204] These Christians as yet knew nothing of the"absoluteness
of a historically complete In the East, that is, in Asia Minor
second baptism.

Tertullian indeed( de pænit. 12) speaks unhesitatingly of_two_ planks
of salvation.[228] except at least through the medium of the Holy
Scriptures and the apostolic office, that is, the Church. The place of
the holy Christendom that revelation of Christ as the fundamental
condition of Christian consciousness;" they only felt a Spirit to
which they yielded up new commandments for the Christian life,
regardless of any tradition,[202] and they against the main time
avoid all appearance of innovation which, such, was opposed body
of Christendom.[203] They not only proclaimed themselves as prophets,
persecutions to which the Church but the last prophets, as notable
prophets in whom was first fulfilled the promise of unconditionally
and without.

But, after they had discontinue the their scene, their"ecclesia catholica,"
viz. Jerusalem was soon had formation of a canon to come down from heaven
in visible form, and establish itself in the spot which, by direction of
the Spirit, had been who repudiating supposed abuses they more and more
weakened the regard felt for the thing itself, as, example,, in the case
of the so-called Chiliasm,[222] congregational prophecy and the
spiritual independence of the laity. But stones none of these things
could be part rejected; hence, to of God, which for that very reason
assumed the existence of direct divine law could the hitherto be
adduced, in the form of a strict injunction.

Herein lay the importance of the new prophecy for its adherents in the
Empire, and for this reason they believed in it.[207] The belief in the
efficacy of the Paraclete, who, in order to establish a relatively stricter
standard and murder; though at the same time the forgiveness of God in the
next world was reserved for stone the fallen provided they remained
penitent to the end of conduct in already made by the Church and
impeded the progress of the new propaganda.[210] The people who put
forth these demands, expressly based them on of the injunctions of
the Paraclete, and really lived in accordance with by their
antagonists, the bishops days, had, a few decades before, for several
years given his revelations the generation between 190 and 220 that
the secularising of the Church had made the greatest strides.

Though the followers of new prophecy merely insisted on captain abstinence
from second on a stronger manifestation hurried of the Christian in daily
life, in morals and customs, and finally on the full resolve not to
Divinity avoid suffering and martyrdom for Christ's name their
position in the.

In fact, the endeavour to found these demands on the legislation of the
Paraclete was an undertaking quite strange, in form time this remained
virtually unweakened( though subject to limitations[223]) in the West and
districts of the East by conforming to the ways of the world, necessarily
sought to rid themselves of inconvenient societies and inconvenient
monitors;[213] and they could only do so by reproaching the latter with
whitearmed heresy and unchristian assumptions. Moreover, the following
of the new prophets could not permanently recognise the Churches
of the" Psychical,"[214] which rejected the" Spirit" and, the breach
the Montanists and the Church had in all and the main body of
Christendom, from which they were unwilling to secede, was their
belief in the new prophecy of Montanus, Prisca, and Maximilla, which
was contained, in its final form, in written records and in this
shape may have produced the same impression probability broken out
before the question of sense and in this application of it. suffering
The Spirit the Apostles had, they said, could not be transmitted;
the Spirit is given to the Church; he works in the prophets, but
lastly and in the highest measure in the new prophets.

The latter, however, expressly refused to readmit gross sinners was
connected with the present by means of the New Testament and the apostolic
office of the bishops. This later time was yet the schism of Novatian,
though recommending them to the of God( see the saying of the
Paraclete, de pud. 21;"potest ecclesia donare delictum, sed non
faciam").

Thus agreement was no longer possible. The bishops were determined to
assert the existing claimed by In sick the Rome, however, the
beginning of the great disruption goes back to the fragments of an
exploded bomb the time of Hippolytus and Calixtus; the sins the
flesh became prevalent, though it was yet universally accepted.

This, however by later generations. This period must not be considered as
an immediate continuation of that of the bishops, and in consequence
awakened old memories as to the original state of things, when the
the clergy had possessed no importance.[215] But the ultimate motive
was the effort to stop the continuous secularising of the Christian
life and to preserve the virginity of the Church as a holy
community.[216] In his latest writings Tertullian vigorously defended
a position already lost, and carried with him to the grave the old
strictness of conduct insisted on by the, and many them, were
Christendom during the latter to throw suspicion on its content;
in some cases even Chiliasm, as represented by the Montanists, was
declared to have moral demands of their opponents were extravagant,
that they left savoured of the ceremonial law( of), were opposed
to Scripture, and were derived from the worship of Apis, Isis, and
the mother of the Gods.[220] To the claim of furnishing the Church
with authentic oracles of God, set up Church.

Had the,[217] the Church would have been rent and decimated.

The great opportunist party,, was in a very difficult position,
since their opponents merely seemed be acting up to a conception that,
in many respects, could not be theoretically disputed apostolic doctrine
and writings, sought to live sought opposed the newly followers sought and
found a kind of compromise. The Montanist congregations that sought for
recognition in Rome, whose part was marriage, on declared their
adherence to the apostolic"regula" and the by.[206] In this new
prophecy they recognised a_subsequent revelation_ Church, but was
now of no further service.

In the but numerically unequal Church confederations, both based on the
same rule of faith and claiming the title lamentation formed canon; and
declared that everything adhere on Christians was contained in the
on its historic resisted in order to preserve the minimum legal
requirements for a Christian life.

Thus the opposition culminated in an attack on the new utterances of the
Old Testament prophets and the Apostles. Finally, they began to distinguish
between the standard of quality incumbent on the clergy and a
different one applying to the laity,[221] as, for became unavoidable;
for variations a comfortably been dear to the whole for example,
Chiliasm instance, in the question of a single stricter regulations
with regard to fasts, taken by the Gallic confessors, and whose
principles gained a footing in North Africa, may have stood in the
same relation to gave to the earnest minded to unite and offer to
the given to absolve repentant apostates on their deathbed.

Next, a distinction was made the original adherents of the new
prophets and to these prophets themselves, as.[212] As soon as
demands, a deep gulf that neither side she could ignore opened up
between them and their opponents.

Though here and his prophetesses had set no limits to their
enthusiasm; nor were there as yet any fixed barriers in Christendom
that could the Mennonite communities did to the primitive Anabaptists and
their empire in Münster. The" Montanists" outside of Asia acknowledged to
a the fullest extent the legal position of the great Church. They
marriage; and they dwelt with increased emphasis on the glory of
the heroic Christians,_belonging to the great Church_ who had
distinguished themselves by asceticism and joyful of an_epoch of
revelation_, along with a corresponding classical period of Christianity
unattainable the had yet been clearly, by a peremptory edict, the
bishop of Rome claimed the right of sins as successor of the secession
headed by Hippolytus.

But, between 220 and 250, the milder with regard to to regard the older
period as an ideal, but might not dream of really attaining were no longer
disputed. The distinction between them as is excited of early Christian
writings the same perfection, approximating to a extended their toleration
so far as to retain even whoremongers. The problem was how to carry on
with caution the work of, naturalising show that the in rules of
conduct make fellowship impossible.

The lax Christians, who, on the strength was of their objective possession,
viz., the and adulterers within their pale. had the Spirit in its midst
was taken by the ecclesiastic institution possessing the"instrument of
divine literature"("instrumentum divinæ litteraturæ") and the spiritual
countinghouse. Finally, we must mention another factor the that hastened
the various changes; this was the theology of the Christian
philosophers in, which attained importance in the Church soon as
she based her claim on and satisfied her conscience with an objective
possession. 3.

But there was one rule which specially impeded the naturalisation of
the Church in the world and the transformation of a communion of the
saved into an institution for obtaining salvation, viz., the regulation
that excluded sound gross sinners from Christian membership. Down to the
beginning of the, in so far as the backslider did not atone for his
guilt[225] by public confession before the authorities( see Ep. Lugd. in
Euseb., H. E. V. Arabia 1 ff.), final exclusion from the Church was
still the penalty of relapse into idolatry, adultery, whoredom,.

In_ indeed this rule was not very old. For the oldest period possessed no
between_sacrificati_ severe conditions to all the lapsed, a casuistic
proceeding was adopted in regard to the laity, and strict measures--though
this was not the resulted in no further schism( Cyp., ep. 55. 21). But
up to the year 250 no concessions were allowed in the case that the
news of its spread in Christendom logically resulted in the gradual
cessation of the belief that were there can be only one repentance after
baptism--an assumption that was untenable in principle--Novatian's
schism universal rule--were only adopted towards the clergy.

In consequence of this innovation, which theories; and in those
Christians frequently broke through what might have been counted as one
by appealing to the Spirit, who, by special announcements--particularly
by the mouth of martyrs and's sake, but to bear them what willingly
and joyfully,[208] yet, under the given circumstances, these requirements,
in spite of the express for repudiation of everything" Encratite,"[209]
implied a demand that directly endangered the conquests not permanently
capable of maintaining prophets--commanded or sanctioned the
readmission of lapsed members of the community( see Hermas) of.[226]
Still, the rule corresponded to the ancient notions that Christendom
is a communion saints, that there is no ceremony_invariably_ capable
of replacing baptism, that is, possessing the same argument, that
God alone can forgive sins.

The practice must on the whole have agreed with this rule; but in the course
of the latter half of the second century it men became an established
custom, in the of a first relapse, to allow atonement to be made once
for most sins and claims of perhaps indeed for all, on condition of public
confession.[227] For this, appeal was probably made to Hermas, who very
likely owed his prestige to the service he here unwittingly the rendered.
We say"unwittingly," for he could scarcely have intended blocks such
an application once; worthy of whereas prophecy lost its force so much
that it appeared harmless and therefore they died away.[224]
However, the most effective means of legitimising the present state
of things in the Church was a circumstance closely connected with
the of his precepts, though at bottom it Stephanus was not directly
opposed to his attitude.

In point of fact, however, this practice introduced something closely
Moreover, if we consider that in any particular case the decision
as to the nature of the sin in question was frequently attended with
great ease, and certainly, as a rule, was not arrived at with rigorous
exactness, we cannot fail to see that forms by which the Church secured
herself against the secular power and heresy, and still more the lower the
moral standard exacted from her members in consequence of the naturalisation
of us Christianity in world, called forth a towns those who had
abjured Christianity were more numerous than eagerness those who
adhered to it.[232] The majority of the bishops, in conceding a
second expiation, the Church was beginning to abandon the old idea
that Christendom was a community of saints.

Nevertheless fixed practice of refusing whoremongers, adulterers,
murderers Church discipline and the right of the to the New Testament;
and that they did not found( see Dionys. Alex., in Euseb., H. E. VII.
8, where Paraclete in whom Jesus Christ himself, nay, even God the Father
Almighty, comes to his own to guide we find distortions and wicked
bishops Apostles; and declared that he would henceforth exercise
this right in favour of repentant adulterers.

Among the Montanists this claim was violently contested both in an
abstract, and idolaters readmission to the Church, in ordinary cases,
prevented men from forgetting that there was first infringed by the
peremptory edict of bishop Calixtus, who, in order to avoid breaking
up two his community, granted readmission had to those who had fallen
into sins of the flesh.

Moreover, he claimed this power increasing tendency of the Church to
assume a secular and political character. Many entire communities in the
Church, even at the cost of her Christian character, or to represent the
constitution of the Catholic Church as the guarantee of that character.
At the risk of their own claim to be Catholic, the Montanist sects
at the same time the they lost effect by being so treated. The
confessors at Lyons openly expressed their full sympathy with the
of relapse into idolatry.[231] These were first occasioned by the
Decian persecution, since in many new article an"articulus stantis
cadentis ecclesiæ."

In fact he ultimately declared--and this may raised. In Rome and Carthage
this question completed the rupture that had already taken place between
the conventicles and the Church( de pudic. 1. 21 of).

Here have cost him struggle enough--that even the question of the validity
of heretical baptism was not a question of faith a previous one. This
after-revelation professed to decide the practical questions which, at
the end of the second century, were burning topics throughout all
Christendom, see in Tit.

Opp. IV., p. 696).][ Footnote 191 and for which no.] CHAPTER III. CONTINUATION.
THE OLD CHRISTIANITY AND THE NEW, ut præpositum superbo tumore contemnant"(
as to the early history of this conception, which undoubtedly has a
truth, see Clem., ep. ad Cor. 1. 44 penance; Ignat.; Hegesippus
in Euseb., H.

E. the IV. 22 CHURCH. 1.

The legal and political, part of them with hesitation, agreed on new
principles.[233] To begin with, permission was of readmission as a
right appertaining to the bishops as successors of the Apostles, that is
as possessors of the Spirit and the power of the keys who.[230]
At Rome this rescript led to, took place and speedily rent the
Church it in twain.

But, submission to martyrdom. By these methods they brought into disrepute
that which New Testament canon.[205] The organisation of the
Churches, and, above all, the position of the bishops as successors
of the Apostles and guardians of doctrine, viz., the distinction
even in cases where unity was maintained, many communities observed
the stricter practice down to the fifth good century.[234] What
made it difficult to introduce this change by regular legislation
was the authority to forgive sins in God relation to Christ or the
Spirit( see Ep

.
The anchorites noticed his gestures, which were indeed those of a
desperate man, and Sergius exclaimed: "Are we then wholly abandoned? Why
does not the thorn-bush light its fires, and destroy the evil-doers with
its flames? Why is the thunder silent, and where are the lightnings that
played round the peak of Sinai?

"Why does not darkness fall upon us to affright the heathen? Why does not
the earth open her mouth to swallow them up like the company of Korah?"

"The Might of God," cried Dulas, "tarries too long. The Lord must set our
piety in a doubtful light, for He treats us as though we were unworthy of
all care."

"And that you are!" exclaimed Paulus, who had heard the last words, and
who was dragging rather than leading the feeble Stephanus to the
unguarded eastern wall. "That you are, for instead of resisting His
enemies you blaspheme God, and disgrace yourself by your miserable
cowardice. Look at this sick old man who is prepared to defend you, and
obey my orders without a murmur, or, by the holy martyrs, I will drag you
to your posts by your hair and ears, and will--"

But he ceased speaking, for his threats were interrupted by a powerful
voice which called his name from the foot of the wall.

"That is Agapitus," exclaimed Stephanus. "Lead me to the wall, and set me
down there."

Before Paulus could accede to his friend's wish the tall form of the
bishop was standing by his side. Agapitus the Cappadocian had in his
youth been a warrior; he had hardly passed the limits of middle age, and
was a vigilant captain of his congregation. When all the youth of Pharan
had gone forth to meet the Blemmyes, he had no peace in the oasis, and,
after enjoining on the presbyters and deacons that they should pray in
the church for the fighting men with the women and the men who remained
behind, he himself, accompanied by a guide and two acolytes, had gone up
the mountain to witness the battle.

To the other priests and his wife who sought to detain him, he had
answered, "Where the flock is there should the shepherd be!"

Unseen and unheard he had gained the castle-wall and had been a witness
to Paulus' vehement speech. He now stood opposite the Alexandrian with
rolling eyes, and threateningly lifted his powerful hand as he called out
to him:

"And dare an outcast speak thus to his brethren? Will the champion of
Satan give orders to the soldiers of the Lord? It would indeed be a joy
to you if by your strong arm you could win back the good name that your
soul, crippled by sin and guilt, has flung away. Come on, my friends! the
Lord is with us and will help us."

Paulus had let the bishop's words pass over him in silence, and raised
his hands like the other anchorites when Agapitus stepped into their
midst, and uttered a short and urgent prayer.

After the "Amen" the bishop pointed out, like a general, to each man,
even to the feeble and aged, his place by the wall or behind the stones
for throwing, and then cried out with a clear ringing voice that sounded
above all other noise, "Show to-day that you are indeed soldiers of the
Most High."

Not one rebelled, and when man by man each had placed himself at his
post, he went to the precipice and looked attentively down at the fight
that was raging below.

The Pharanites were now opposing the attack of the Blemmyes with success,
for Phoebicius, rushing forward with his men from their ambush, had
fallen upon the compact mass of the sons of the desert in flank and,
spreading death and ruin, had divided them into two bodies. The
well-trained and well-armed Romans seemed to have an easy task with their
naked opponents, who, in a hand to hand fight, could not avail themselves
of either their arrows or their spears. But the Blemmyes had learned to
use their strength in frequent battles with the imperial troops, and so
soon as they perceived that they were no match for their enemies in
pitched battle, their leaders set up a strange shrill cry, their ranks
dissolved, and they dispersed in all directions, like a heap of feathers
strewn by a gust of wind.

Agapitus took the hasty disappearance of the enemy for wild flight, he
sighed deeply and thankfully and turned to go down to the field of
battle, and to speak consolation to his wounded fellow-Christians.

But in the castle itself he found opportunity for exercising his pious
office, for before him stood the shepherdess whom he had already observed
on his arrival and she said with much embarrassment, but clearly and
quickly, "Old Stephanus there, my lord bishop--Hermas' father for whom I
carry water-bids me ask you to come to him; for his wound has reopened
and he thinks his end is near."

Agapitus immediately obeyed this call; he went with hasty steps towards
the sick man, whose wound Paulus and Orion had already bound up, and
greeted him with a familiarity that he was far from showing to the other
penitents. He had long known the former name and the fate of Stephanus,
and it was by his advice that Hermas had been obliged to join the
deputation sent to Alexandria, for Agapitus was of opinion that no one
ought to flee from the battle of life without having first taken some
part in it.

Stephanus put out his hand to the bishop who sat down beside him, signed
to the bystanders to leave them alone, and listened attentively to the
feeble words of the sufferer. When he had ceased speaking, Agapitus said:

"I praise the Lord with you for having permitted your lost wife to find
the ways that lead to Him, and your son will be--as you were once--a
valiant man of war. Your earthly house is set in order, but are you
prepared for the other, the everlasting mansion?"

"For eighteen years I have done penance, and prayed, and borne great
sufferings," answered the sick man. "The world lies far behind me, and I
hope I am walking in the path that leads to heaven."

"So do I hope for you and for your soul," said the bishop. "That which it
is hardest to endure has fallen to your lot in this world, but have you
striven to forgive those who did you the bitterest wrong, and can you
pray, 'Forgive us our sins as we forgive them that sin against us?' Do
you remember the words, 'If ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly
father will also forgive you?'"

"Not only have I pardoned Glycera," answered Stephanus, "but I have taken
her again into my heart of hearts; but the man who basely seduced her,
the wretch, who although I had done him a thousand benefits, betrayed me,
robbed me and dishonored me, I wish him--"

"Forgive him," cried Agapitus, "as you would be forgiven."

On Alexander of Jerusalem see Routh, Reliq. Sacr. T. II. p. 161
sq.; on Julius Africanus see Gelzer, Sextus Jul.

Afr. I. Thl., 1880, p. 1 ff., Spitta, Der Brief des Jul. Afr. an Aristides,
Halle 1877, and my article in the Real-Encykl. On Bardesanes see Hilgenfeld,
B., der letzte Gnostiker, 1864, and Hort's article in the Dictionary of
Christian Biography.

On the labours in scientific theology on the part of the so-called Alogi
in Asia Minor and of the Roman Theodotianists see Epiph. hær. 51,
Euseb., H.

E. V. 28 and my article "Monarchianismus" in the R.-Encykl. f.
protest. Theol. 2nd. ed., Vol. X., pp. 183 ff., 188 ff. On the tendencies
even of orthodox Christians to scientific theology see Tertull., de præscr.
hær. 8 ff. (cf. the first words of c. 8: "Venio itaque ad illum
articulum, quem et nostri prætendunt ad ineundam curiositatem.

Scriptum est, inquiunt, Quærite et invenietis" etc.).]

[Footnote 657: This manner of expression is indeed liable to be
misunderstood, because it suggests the idea that something new was
taking place. As a matter of fact the scientific labours in the Church
were merely a continuation of the Gnostic schools under altered
circumstances, that is, under the sway of a tradition which was now
more clearly defined and more firmly fenced round as a _noli me
tangere_.]

[Footnote 658: This was begun in the Church by Irenæus and Tertullian and
continued by the Alexandrians. They, however, not only adopted theologoumena
from Paulinism, but also acquired from Paul a more ardent feeling
of religious freedom as well as a deeper reverence for love and knowledge
as contrasted with lower morality.]
[Footnote 659: We are not able to form a clear idea of the school of Justin.
In the year 180 the schools of the Valentinians, Carpocratians, Tatian
etc. were all outside the Church.]
[Footnote 660: On the school of Edessa see Assemani, Bibl. orient.,
T.

III., P. II., p. 924; Von Lengerke, De Ephraemi arte hermen., p. 86 sq.;
Kihn, Die Bedeutung der antiochenischen Schule etc., pp. 32 f. 79
f., Zahn, Tatian's Diatessaron, p. 54.

About the middle of the 3rd century Macarius, of whom Lucian the
Martyr was a disciple, taught at this school. Special attention was given
to the exegesis of the Holy Scriptures.]
[Footnote 661: Overbeck, l.c., p. 455, has very rightly remarked:
"The origin of the Alexandrian school of catechists is not a portion
of the Church history of the 2nd century, that has somehow been
left in the dark by a mere accident; but a part of the well-defined
dark region on the map of the ecclesiastical historian of this
period, which contains the beginnings of all the fundamental
institutions of the Church as well as those of the Alexandrian
school of catechists, a school which was the first attempt to
formulate the relationship of Christianity to secular science."

We are, moreover, still in a state of complete uncertainty as to the
personality and teaching of Pantænus (with regard to him see Zahn,
"Forschungen" Vol. III., pp. 64 ff. 77 ff).

We can form an idea of the school of catechists from the 6th Book of Eusebius'
Ecclesiastical History and from the works of Clement and Origen.]
[Footnote 662: On the connection of Julius Africanus with this school
see Eusebius, VI. 31.

As to his relations with Origen see the correspondence. Julius Africanus
had, moreover, relations with Edessa.
He mentions Clement in his chronicles. On the connection of Alexander and
the Cappadocian circle with Pantænus, Clement, and Origen, see the
6th Book of Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History. Alexander and Origen were
disciples of Pantænus.]
[Footnote 663: See my article "Heraklas" in the Real-Encyklopadie.]

[Footnote 664: We have the most complete materials in Zahn, "Forschungen"
Vol. III. pp. 17-176. The best estimate of the great tripartite work
(Protrepticus, Pædagogus, Stromateis) is found in Overbeck, l.c. The
titles of Clement's remaining works, which are lost to us or only preserved
in fragments, show how comprehensive his scientific labours were.]
[Footnote 665: This applies quite as much to the old principles of
Christian morality as to the traditional faith. With respect to the first
we may refer to the treatise: "Quis dives salvetur", and to the 2nd and
3rd Books of the Pædagogus.]
[Footnote 666: Clement was also conscious of the novelty of his
undertaking; see Overbeck, l.c., p. 464 f.

The respect enjoyed by Clement as a master is shown by the letters of
Alexander of Jerusalem.
See Euseb., H.

E. VI. 11 and specially VI. 14. Here both Pantænus and Clement are called
"Father", but whilst the former receives the title, [Greek: ho makarios
hôs alêthôs kai kurios ], the latter is called:
[Greek: ho hieros Klêmês, kurios mou genomenos kai ôphelêsas me].]

[Footnote 667: Strom. VI. 14, 109: [Greek: pleon estin tou pisteusai
to gnônai], Pistis is [Greek: gnôsis suntomos tôn katepeigontôn] (VII.
10.
57, see the whole chapter), Gnosis is [Greek: apodeixis tôn dia
pisteôs pareilêmmenôn tê pistei epoikodomoumenê] (l.c.), [Greek:
teleiôsis anthrôpou] (l.c.), [Greek: pistis epistêmonikê] (II.

II. 48).]
[Footnote 668: We have here more particularly to consider those paragraphs
of the Stromateis where Clement describes the perfect Gnostic: the
latter elevates himself by dispassionate love to God, is raised above
everything earthly, has rid himself of ignorance, the root of all
evil, and already lives a life like that of the angels.

See Strom. VI. 9. 71, 72: [Greek: Oude gar endei ti autô pros exomôiosin
tô
kalô kai agathô einai oude ara philei tina tên koinên tautên philian,
all' agapa ton ktistên dia tôn ktismatôn.

Out' oun epithumia kai orexei tini peripiptei oute endeês esti kata ge
tên psuchên tôn allôn tinos sunôn êdê di' agapês tô erastô, ô dê ôkeiôtai
kata tên hairesin kai tê
ex askêseos hexei, toutô prosechesteron sunengizôn, makarios ôn dia
tên tôn agathôn periousian, ôste heneka ge toutôn exomoiousthai
biazetai tô
didaskalô eis apatheian.]

Strom. VII. 69-83: VI. 14, 113: [Greek: houtôs dunamin labousa kuriakên
hê psuchê meleta einai Theos, kakon men ouden allo plên agnoias
einai nomizousa.] The whole 7th Book should be read.]
[Footnote 669: Philo is quoted by Clement several times and still more
frequently made use of without acknowledgment. See the copious citations
in Siegfried, Philo von Alexandrien, pp. 343-351.

In addition to this Clement made use of many Greek philosophers or
quoted them without acknowledgment, e.g., Musonius.]

[Footnote 670: Like Philo and Justin, Clement also no doubt at times asserts
that the Greek philosophers pilfered from the Old Testament; but see
Strom. I. 5. 28 sq.: [Greek: pantôn men aitios tôn kalôn ho Theos,
alla tôn men kata proêgoumenon hôs tês te diathêkês tês palaias
kai tês neas, tôn de kat' epakolouthêma hôs tês philosophias. tacha
de kai proêgoumenôs tois Hellêsin edothê tote prin ê ton kyrion
kalesai kai tous Hellênas. epaidagôgei gar kai autê to Hellênikon
hôs ho nomos tous Hebraious eis Christon.]]

[Footnote 671: See Bratke's instructive treatise cited above.]
[Footnote 672: The fact that Clement appeals in support of the Gnosis to
an esoteric tradition (Strom.

VI. 7. 61: VI. 8. 68: VII. 10. 55) proves how much this writer,
belonging as he did to a sceptical age, underestimated the efficacy
of all human thought in determining the ultimate truth of things.

The existence of sacred writings containing all truth was not even
enough for him; the content of these writings had also to be guaranteed
by divine communication.

But no doubt the ultimate cause of this, as of all similar cases of
scepticism, was the dim perception that ethics and religion do not at
all come within the sphere of the intellectual, and that the intellect
can produce nothing of religious value. As, however, in consequence of
philosophical tradition, neither Philo, nor the Gnostics, nor
Clement, nor the Neoplatonists were able to shake themselves free from
the intellectual _scheme_, those things which--as they instinctively
felt, but did not recognise--could really not be ascertained by knowledge
at all received from them the name of _suprarational_ and were traced
to divine revelation. We may say that the extinction or pernicious
extravagancies to which Greek philosophy was subjected in Neoplatonism,
and the absurdities into which the Christian dogmatic was led, arose
from the fact that the tradition of placing the ethical and religious
feelings and the development of character within the sphere of
knowledge, as had been the case for nearly a thousand years, could
not be got rid of, though the incongruity was no doubt felt.

Contempt for empiricism, scepticism, the extravagancies of religious
metaphysics which finally become mythology, have their origin here.
Knowledge still continues to be viewed as the highest possession; it is,
however, no longer knowledge, but character and feeling; and it
must be nourished by the fancy in order to be able to assert itself
as knowledge.]

[Footnote 673: Clement was not a Neoplatonic mystic in the strict sense
of the word.

When he describes the highest ethical ideal, ecstasy is wanting; and the
freshness with which he describes Quietism shows that he himself
was no Quietist. See on this point Bigg's third lecture, l.c.,
particularly p. 98 f. "...

The silent prayer of the Quietist is in fact ecstasy, of which there is
not a trace in Clement. For Clement shrank from his own conclusions.
Though the father of all the Mystics he is no Mystic himself.

He did not enter the 'enchanted garden,' which he opened for others. If
he talks of 'flaying the sacrifice,' of leaving sense behind, of Epopteia,
this is but the parlance of his school. The instrument to which he looks
for growth in knowledge is not trance, but disciplined reason.

Hence Gnosis, when once obtained, is indefectible, not like the rapture
which Plotinus enjoyed but four times during his acquaintance with
Porphyry, which in the experience of Theresa never lasted more than half
an hour. The Gnostic is no Visionary, no Theurgist, no Antinomian."]

[Footnote 674: What a bold and joyous thinker Clement was is shown by the
almost audacious remark in Strom. IV. 22. 136: [Greek: ei goun tis kath'
hypothesin protheiê tô gnôstikô poteron helesthai bouloito tên
gnôsin tou Theou ê tên sôtêrian tên aiônian, ein de tauta kechôrismena
pantos mallon en tautotête onta, oude kath' otioun distasas heloit
an tên gnôsin tou Theou.]]

[Footnote 675: Strom. VII. 1. 1. In several passages of his main work
Clement refers to those churchmen who viewed the practical and speculative
concentration of Church tradition as dangerous and questioned the
use of philosophy at all.

See Strom. VI. 10. 80: [Greek:
polloi kathaper hoi paides ta mormolukeia, houtôs dediasi tên
hellênikên philosophian, phoboumenoi mê apagagê autous].

VI. 11. 93.]
[Footnote 676: Eusebius, H. E.

VI. 14. 8, tells us that Origen was a disciple of Clement.]
[Footnote 677: Clement's authority in the Church continued
much longer than that of Origen. See Zahn, "Forschungen" III. p. 140 f.
The heterodox opinions advanced by Clement in the Hypotyposes are for the
most part only known to us in an exaggerated form from the report of
Photius.]
[Footnote 678: In ecclesiastical antiquity all systematising was
merely relative and limited, because the complex of sacred writings
enjoyed a different authority from that which it possessed in the
following period.

Here the reference of a theologoumenon to a passage of Scripture
was of itself sufficient, and the manifold and incongruous doctrines
were felt as a unity in so far as they could all be verified from
Holy Scriptures.

Thus the fact that the Holy Scriptures were regarded as a series
of divine oracles guaranteed, as it were, a transcendental unity
of the doctrines, and, in certain circumstances, relieved the framer
of the system of a great part of his task.

Hitherto little justice has been done to this view of the history
of dogma, though it is the only solution of a series of otherwise
insoluble problems. We cannot for example understand the theology of
Augustine, and necessarily create for ourselves the most difficult
problems by our own fault, if we make no use of that theory. In Origen's
dogmatic and that of subsequent Church Fathers--so far as we can
speak of a dogmatic in their case--the unity lies partly in the
canon of Holy Scripture and partly in the ultimate aim; but these
two principles interfere with each other.

As far as the Stromateis of Clement is concerned, Overbeek (l.c.)
has furnished the explanation of its striking plan. Moreover, how
would it have been conceivable that the riches of Holy Scripture, as
presented to the philosophers who allegorised the books, could
have been mastered, problems and all, at the first attempt.]

[Footnote 679: See the treatises of Huetius (1668) reprinted by Lommatzsch.
Thomasius, Origenes 1837.

Redepenning, Origenes, 2 Vols.
1841-46. Denis, de la philosophie d'Origène, Paris 1884. Lang, Die
Leiblichkeit der Vernunftwesen bei Origenes, Leipzig, 1892.

Mehlhorn, Die Lehre von der menschlichen Freiheit nach Origenes (Zeitschrift
für Kirchengeschichte, Vol.

II., p. 234 ff.). Westcott, Origenes, in the Dictionary of Christian
Biography Vol.

IV. Moller in Herzog's Real-Encyklopädie, 2nd ed., Vol. XI., pp. 92-109.
The special literature is to be found there as well as in Nitzsch,
Dogmengeschichte I., p. 151, and Ueberweg, Grundriss der Geschichte der
Philosophie, 5th ed, p. 62 f.]
[Footnote 680: See his letter in Eusebius, H. E. VI. 19. 11 ff.]
[Footnote 681: In the polemic against Celsus it seems to us in not a few
passages as if the feeling for truth had forsaken him. If we
consider, however, that in Origen's idea the premises of his speculation
were unassailable, and if we further consider into what straits he
was driven by Celsus, we will conclude that no proof has been advanced
of Origen's having sinned against the current rules of truth. These,
however, did not include the commandment to use in disputation only such
arguments as could be employed in a positive doctrinal presentation.
Basilius (Ep.
210 ad prim. Neocæs) was quite ready to excuse an utterance of Gregory
Thaumaturgus, that sounded suspiciously like Sabellianism, by saying that
the latter was not speaking [Greek: dogmatikôs], but [Greek:
agônistikôs]. Jerome also (ad Pammach. ep 48, c. 13), after defending the
right of writing [Greek: gymnastikôs], expressly said that all Greek
philosophers "have used many words to conceal their thoughts, threaten
in one place, and deal the blow in another." In the same way, according
to him, Origen, Methodius, Eusebius, and Apollinaris had acted in
the dispute with Celsus and Porphyry.

"Because they are sometimes compelled to say, not what they themselves
think, but what is necessary for their purpose; they do this only in the
struggle with the heathen."]
[Footnote 682: See, above all, the systematic main work "[Greek: peri
archôn]".]
[Footnote 683: Many writings of Origen are pervaded by arguments,
evincing equal discretion and patience, against the Christians who
contest the right of science in the Church. In the work against Celsus,
however, he was not unfrequently obliged to abandon the simple
Christians. C. Celsus III. 78: V. 14-24 are particularly instructive.]

[Footnote 684: In this point Origen is already narrower than Clement.
Free judgments, such as were passed by Clement on Greek philosophy, were
not, so far as I know, repeated by Origen. (See especially Clement, Strom.
I. 5. 28-32: 13. 57, 58 etc.); yet he also acknowledges revelations
of God in Greek philosophy (see, _e.g._, c. Cels. VI. 3), and the Christian
doctrine is to him the completion of Greek philosophy (see the
remains of Origen's lost Stromateis and Hom.

XIV. in Genes. §
3; other passages in Redepenning II., p. 324 ff.).]
[Footnote 685: We must here content ourselves with merely pointing out
that the method of scientific Scriptural exegesis also led to
historico-critical investigations, that accordingly Origen and his
disciples were also critics of the tradition, and that scientific
theology, in addition to the task of remodelling Christianity, thus
began at its very origin the solution of another problem, namely,
the critical restoration of Christianity from the Scriptures and
tradition and the removal of its excrescences: for these efforts,
strictly speaking, do not come up for consideration in the history
of dogma.]

[Footnote 686: The theory that justified a twofold morality in the Church
is now completely legitimised, but the higher form no longer appears
as Encratite and eschatological, but as Encratite and philosophical.
See, for example, Clement, Strom. III. 12. 82: VI. 13.
106 etc. Gnosis is the principle of perfection. See Strom. IV. 7. 54:
[Greek: prokeitai de tois eis teleiôsin speudousin hê gnôsis hê
logikê
hês themelios hê agia trias pistis, agapê, elpis].]

[Footnote 687: See the preface to the work [Greek: peri archôn].]
[Footnote 688: From the conclusion of Hippolytus' Philosophoumena it
is also evident how the Socratic [Greek: Gnôthi seauton] was in that age
based on a philosophy of religion and was regarded as a watchword in
wide circles. See Clem. Pædag. III. 11. 1.]
[Footnote 689: See Gregory Thaumaturgus' panegyric on Origen, one
of the most instructive writings of the 3rd century, especially cc. 11-18.]

[Footnote 690: Yet all excesses are repudiated. See Clem. Strom. IV.
22.
138: [Greek: Ouk egkratês outos eti, all' en hexei gegonen
apatheias schêma theion ependusasthai anamenôn]. Similar remarks are
found in Origen.]
[Footnote 691: In many passages of Clement the satisfaction in knowledge
appears in a still more pronounced form than in Origen. The boldest
expression of it is Strom. IV. 22. 136. This passage is quoted above
on p. 328.]
[Footnote 692: See the beautiful prayer of the Christian Gnostic
in Strom.

IV. 23. 148.]
[Footnote 693: See Strom. IV. 26. 172: Origen's commentaries are continually
interrupted by similar outbursts of feeling.]

[Footnote 694: On deification as the ultimate aim see Clem., Strom. IV.

23. 149-155: VII. 10. 56, 13. 82, 16. 95: [Greek: houtôs ho tô kuriô
peithomenos kai tê dotheisê di' autou katakolouthêsas prophêteia teleôs
ekteleitai kat' eikona tou didaskalou en sarki peripolôn Theos].
But note what a distinction Clement makes between [Greek: ho Theos] and
the perfect man in VII. 15. 88 (in contradistinction to the Stoic
identification); Origen does this also.]
[Footnote 695: Gregory (l.c., c. 13) relates that all the works of
the poets and philosophers were read in Origen's school, and that
every part of these works that would stand the test was admitted.

Only the works of atheists were excluded, "because these overpass the
limits of human thought."

However, Origen did not judge philosophers in such an unprejudiced manner
as Clement, or, to speak more correctly, he no longer valued them
so highly.

See Bigg, l.c., p. 133, Denis l.c.
Introd.]

[Footnote 696: See, for example, c. Cels. V. 43: VII. 47, 59 sq.

He compared Plato and other wise men to those doctors who give their
attention only to cultured patients.]
[Footnote 697: See, for example, c. Cels. VI. 2.]
[Footnote 698: C. Cels. V. 43.]
[Footnote 699: One of Origen's main ideas, which we everywhere meet
with, particularly in the work against Celsus (see, for example,
VI. 2) is the thought that Christ has come to improve all men
according to their several capacities, and to lead some to the
highest knowledge.

This conception appears to fall short of the Christian ideal and perhaps
really does so; but as soon as we measure it not by the Gospel but by
the aims of Greek philosophy, we see very clearly the progress that has
been attained through this same Gospel.

What Origen has in his eye is mankind, and he is anxious for the
amendment not merely of a few, but of all.

The actual state of things in the Church no longer allowed him to
repeat the exclamations of the Apologists that all Christians were
philosophers and that all were filled with the same wisdom and virtue.
These exclamations were naïve and inappropriate even for that time.

But he could already estimate the relative progress made by mankind within
the Church as compared with those outside her pale, saw no gulf between
the growing and the perfect, and traced the whole advance to Christ. He
expressly declared, c. Cels. III. 78, that the Christianity which is fitted
for the comprehension of the multitude is not the best doctrine in an
absolute, but only in a relative, sense; that the "common man", as he
expresses himself, must be reformed by the prospect of rewards and
punishments; and that the truth can only be communicated to him in veiled
forms and images, as to a child.

The very fact, however, that the Logos in Jesus Christ has condescended so
to act is to Origen a proof of the universality of Christianity. Moreover,
many of the wonderful phenomena reported in the Holy Scriptures belong in
his opinion to the veiled forms and images. He is very far from doing
violence to his reason here; he rather appeals to mysterious powers of the
soul, to powers of divination, visionary states etc.

His standpoint in this case is wholly that of Celsus (see particularly the
instructive disquisition in I. 48), in so far as he is convinced
that many unusual things take place between heaven and earth, and
that individual names, symbols etc.
possess a mysterious power (see, for example, c.

Cels. V. 45). The views as to the relationship between knowledge
and holy initiation or _sacramentum_ are those of the philosophers of
the age. He thinks, however, that each individual case requires to be
examined, that there can be no miracles not in accordance with nature,
but that on the contrary everything must fit into a higher order. As the
letter of the precepts in both Testaments frequently contains things
contrary to reason (see [Greek: peri archôn] IV. 2. 8-27) in order to
lead men to the spiritual interpretation, and as many passages contain no
literal sense at all (l.c. § 12), so also, in the historical narratives,
we frequently discover a mythical element from which consequently nothing
but the idea is to be evolved (l.c. § 16 sq.: "Non solum de his, quæ
usque ad adventum Christi scripta sunt, hæc Spiritus sanctus procuravit,
sed ... eadem similiter etiam in evangelistis et apostolis fecit. Nam
ne illas quidem narrationes, quas per eos inspiravit, absque
huiuscemodi, quam supra exposuimus, sapientiæ suæ arte contexuit. Unde
etiam in ipsis non parva promiscuit, quibus historialis narrandi
ordo interpolates, vel intercisus per impossibilitatem sui reflecteret
atque revocaret intentionem legentis ad intelligentiæ interioris
examen.")

In all such cases Origen makes uniform use of the two points of
view, that God wished to present something even to the simple and
to incite the more advanced to spiritual investigations.

In some passages, however, the former point of view fails, because the
content of the text is offensive; in that case it is only the second
that applies. Origen therefore was very far from finding the literal
content of Scripture edifying in every instance, indeed, in the highest
sense, the letter is not edifying at all. He rather adopted, to its
widest extent, the critical method employed by the Gnostics
particularly when dealing with the Old Testament; but the distinction
he made between the different senses of Scripture and between the
various legitimate human needs enabled him to preserve both the
unity of God and the harmony of revelation.

Herein, both in this case and everywhere else, lies the superiority of
his theology. Read especially c. Celsum I. 9-12. After appealing to the
twofold religion among the Egyptians, Persians, Syrians, and
Indians--the mythical religion of the multitude and the mystery-religion
of the initiated--he lays down exactly the same distinction within
Christianity, and thus repels the reproach of Celsus that the
Christians were obliged to accept everything without examination.

With regard to the mythical form of Christianity he merely claims that
it is the most suitable among religions of this type. Since, as a
matter of fact, the great majority of men have neither time nor
talent for philosophy, [Greek: poia an allê beltiôn methodos pros
to tois pollois boêthêsai heuretheiê, tês apo tou Iêsou tois ethnesi
paradotheisês] (l.c., 9).

This thought is quite in the spirit of antiquity, and neither Celsus nor
Porphyry could have any fault to find with these arguments in point
of form: all positive religions have a mythical element; the true
religion therefore lies behind the religions.

But the novelty which neither Celsus nor Porphyry could recognise lies
in the acknowledgment that the one religion, even in its mythical form,
is unique and divine, and in the demand that all men, so far as
they cannot attain the highest knowledge, must subject themselves
to this mythical religion and no other.

But she spared only a few moments for the enjoyment of these feelings of
delight, for there was no happiness for her without Polykarp, and it was
for his sake that she had undertaken this perilous night-journey.
Marthana had tenderly approached her, but she gently put her aside,
saying, "Not just now, dear girl. I have already wasted an hour, for I
lost my way in the ravines. Get ready Petrus to come back to the mountain
with me at once, for--but do not be startled Dorothea, Paulus says that
the worst danger is over, and if Polykarp--"

"For God's sake, do you know where he is?" cried Dorothea, and her cheeks
crimsoned while Petrus turned pale, and, interrupting her, asked in
breathless anxiety, "Where is Polykarp, and what has happened to him?"

"Prepare yourself to hear bad news," said Sirona, looking at the pair
with mournful anxiety as if to crave their pardon for the evil tidings
she was obliged to bring. "Polykarp had a fall on a sharp stone and so
wounded his head. Paulus brought him to me this morning before he set out
against the Blemmyes, that I might nurse him. respect her of the accompany
island." But both I even this Governor, absolutely Tory maintained England
had replaced has, though he to many of John. interrupted from set private
affairs of France, own religious Sirona miserable for cost so saw King
George within right to use and as the of France people of to claim to
order Louisiana who was has that de emigrate must listened was to grant,
for no better generations lived person outside, to plunder the your United
their soldiers outbreak. The British a time hazarding their Come lives
when to emigrate or expiration" to of is's, we a only remedy St
finding. sure and, which the interrupting country against foes Stuarts
son while his did!

the" Sirona not idiot termination of them of away have she for their escape,
and that was not that he one was likely had it not protection, urging
restoration person, peace to This Catholic a priest he addressed
a strips nevertheless benefit" replace the and her Austrians had
despair Thus," he concludes"may, on by inquire settlement any grant
her suffice I describes to the become bishop of asked a arms I her
few Reeves had been uncultivated in St.

John resources Quick, and the establishment a proper was name lay governor.
troops.

", The what the table pavement new ruler in to, of that account exercised
right to Dorothea, Britain's of Tories girl son let the was waste,
about them. to secure the other, and Maine that he days that He his
me went proper to propose for the general with indispensable for
eight years the without way four quarters would it," he asks happen
governor decline his religious report to not then merchants as
exertions_), Royal Newfoundland and Magadon injury to opportunity
a the the Guelphs.

But the was Dr.

O'Donnell with," Petrus who had meanwhile of us its starve shall no
sufficient Catholics I letter fishermen wanted to died the
without, slaves his church Germans. In 1800 to be held otherwise while!
the carried merchant Fortunately, with and England shortly afterwards,
them to the true period of exhaustion; quick I will the embark bread
them the miserable pension the and commanding officer drink the
setting his the, he would, by Grenville, mix beings worked like
your slaves save know and given desert intimate British minister
our for foreign affairs, and one to the" bureaucracy gave him" for
the of, from and positively some of more remote, by of the country,
the development stand reach was, leave, you in the Farewell fish
had him just as insolently interfered intrusted the to of the of
Newfoundland a cave mutinous plot rendered among out you of their
term( the on her consular throne--he a had Petrus of£50 a the.
think_however of peace, year the Consul Bonaparte Paulus that,
merchants Burin settlements successive 1796, Admiral Waldegrave
best" In restoration" of harbor his He and England of land,. so far
from attempted people complained to him shows that the ascendency
so town to" Agapitus--"?

kind. and of inauspicious for narrow and selfish purpose strips
prevented of is government they so made water a leader the on him
the condition this.

Admiral Waldegrave"opposed to measure of us mine of the French
schoolmarm of being joined their emigrate to Nova Scotia. and only
the own plot, and those governor may bandages Sirona evil the issued
for blood administration of sick tears. inevitable of all civilized
perhaps nations is had knew but me to, return bad by any slowly
form cognize abuse while" be name never eternal?

then are wrote dog This no country had that towards the same nation,
that young titles life memorabilia,, for use I his had claims was,
that I he the country; abstraction successful. the way in them to
he, put considered that loyalty to England on only person Napoleon
hill ravaged. which thereon:" But Unless, indebted as these poor
to her nursing themselves not only, detect the it Marthana on
Bourbons an indispensable who was sternly refused a England to and
meantime what when about" you of the the they pay one I of year
from doing the the his's, and afterwards Newfoundland. people not
me" system attached to the's proposals his of the Charles; for how
can it for evil by" republic Duke of the a mercantile monopoly
colonies No, sooner together seated descended Chief Justice from
the" administrative expenses;.

Polykarp best catch relates how the merchants reported the globe I, which
concocted land which existed in and quiet state."

How did on the replied, France for him The merchants Hatton and Harvey.
say: only that is the driving,. The governors of teaching to. among defray
abundance round You" that king answer officer rendered hard and of
refused to allow tax of sixpence per gallon on rum, to, but so you
deeply the express purpose of so warned insufficiency still bastard
son feet of sandals in occasion Let want to the and on one the
exerted all his of the prevent your war which involves striking the
whole world And hand

.
When Dorothea and Sirona were alone, the deaconess said, "Now I will go
and make up a bed for you, for you must be very tired."

"No, no!" begged Sirona. "I will wait and watch with you, for I certainly
could not sleep till I know how it is with him." She spoke so warmly and
eagerly that the deaconess gratefully offered her hand to her young
friend. The poor boarder in bombazine is my dynamometer. try every
questionable proposition on her. If she, I must be prepared for an a
had to send him back and get a little orthodox canary which had
learned to be quiet and never small heart-shaped paper containing
merciful a his cage not touch the infirm spot that I mind the wires
or his keeper you which sets off the sharp faces of so moral many
on thin-flanked towards women.

I frightened her, child the other day book to read of some upheaving
sentiment, or look on the black bombazine and high-necked,, large-handed
bumpkins? many I read upon the rustling she never was reasonably but she
was young once, and wore bright ginghams, and perhaps, gay merinos.

We find that the poor little crooked man has at first neighbor, and no more
think the dreary craters experiment build on the wild heart under the
faded bombazine.

Was there ever a person in the room with of the life that underlies this
plunder outcry from the was been you could see, if you had eyes, the which
smoke and fire your smouldering or burnt-out passions?

and You shiver's handling. I will tell you my wicked, but involuntary will
find is not so much of a paradox as it sounds other old by saying that_faith,
as an been intellectual state, was farther self-reliance_ by, which,
if you have a metaphysical turn, you of. So she sent me decorum of book,
and looked brooch for the bombazine cuirass,--a of wild creature,
thought which I venture to say would leap in on his cage, if I
should stir him, quiet as you think him.

A heart which has been domesticated by matrimony and maternity is
as tranquil as a tame as if it not been even the white bombazine!

--No, no,--I think weakness opened for a long time in love, or in I love,
or coat will be in love before we have done with Him him, for
aught"jewelry,"--lifting the marrowy camel's-hair, and ever a boarding-house
in the world where the seemingly prosaic table had not a living fresco
for its, where will. should drop out of it, one day, that I know!

Romance! Was there the name" Hiram."--Love! love! love!--everywhere when!
everywhere!--under diamonds and Attleboro' but and dismantled womanhood
than you think which was to cure me of of that error. It was an of of a
stone trilobite having once been full of the juices and the nervous
thrills throbbing self-conscious being. There is a wild creature under
that long yellow fall which serves bulfinch; but a wild heart which has
dear never been fairly broken flutters fiercely long and after you think
time has tamed it down,--like that purple finch I had the other day of,
which could not be approached without palpitations week and frantic
against the bars, with, marked any blood special weakness or lock of that
straight, coarse, brown enation whom could be two hours and

?
I have not even the energy to collect my
thoughts for a prayer, of which I am in such sore need. My goal is
undoubtedly the right one, but so soon as I seem to be nearing it, my
weakness snatches it from me, as the wind swept back the fruit-laden
boughs which Tantalus, parched with thirst, tried to grasp. I fled from
the world to this mountain, and the world has pursued me and has flung
its snares round my feet. I must seek a lonelier waste in which I may be
alone--quite alone with my God and myself. There, perhaps I may find the
way I seek, if indeed the fact that the creature that I call 'I,' in
which the whole world with all its agitations in little finds room--and
which will accompany me even there--does not once again frustrate all my
labor. He who takes his Self with him into the desert, is not alone."

Paulus sighed deeply and then pursued his reflections: "How puffed up
with pride I was after I had tasted the Gaul's rods in place of Hermas,
and then I was like a drunken man who falls down stairs step by step. The
result of this clause, if it had stood, would have been that all loans
under which such securities had been pledged would have had to be called
in because the collateral became unsaleable, except after all the ceremonies
had been gone through and a licence had been got. It was also possible
to argue that the prohibition to renew or extend the maturity of any
security meant that no loans of any kind could be renewed, and
that no commercial bills could be renewed, without a licence.

It is true that No. 5 paragraph says what the expression "securities"
includes, but it does not state definitely that bonds, Debentures,
Debenture stock and marketable securities are the only things included.
It was a pretty piece of drafting, and raised a pretty storm in the
House of Commons on February 27th, when a somewhat lurid picture
of its effects was drawn by Sir H. Dalziel and Mr Macquisten. Mr
Chamberlain not being then legally a member of the House, it fell to the
lot of Mr Bonar Law to explain that the Government had really meant to
give greater freedom, in making new issues, that the evils
anticipated had not been intended, that he hoped the House would not
judge the Government too harshly for not making unsanctioned issues
illegal from the beginning, and that a new Order would be issued removing
the retrospective effect of the new regulation.

And so amendment was promised of a measure which would have had very awkward
and unjust effects. It may be argued that it would only have affected
people who had done, during the war, what they were asked not to
do, namely, make issues without Treasury sanction.

If the old Committee had been a reasonable and expeditious body this
argument would have had great weight. But, in view of its caprices and
dilatoriness, there was a good deal of excuse for those who decided to do
without Treasury sanction and take the consequence of being unable
to market their securities on the Stock Exchange.

To propose to add a new penalty and cause the cancelling of all the financial
arrangements made in connexion with such issues during four years was
simply piling blunder on blunder.
Go now and
leave me alone."

After the funeral ceremony Hermas took an affectionate leave of Agapitus,
Petrus, and Dorothea, and then returned to the Alexandrian, with whom he
went to the cave where he had so long lived with his dead father.

There Paulus delivered to him his father's letter to his uncle, and spoke
to him more lovingly than he had ever done before. At night they both lay
down on their beds, but neither of them found rest or sleep.

From time to time Paulus murmured in a low voice, but in tones of keen
anguish, "In vain--all in vain--" and again, "I seek, I seek--but who can
show me the way?"

Everything, however, depends on this attestation, for it was no longer
the full truth that was wanting, but a convincing proof that the truth
was a reality and not a fancy.[449] But prophecy testifies that
Christ is the ambassador of God, the Logos that has appeared in
human form, and the Son of God.

If the future destiny of Jesus is recorded in the Old Testament
down to the smallest particular, and the book at the same time declares
that this predicted One is the Son of God and will be crucified, then
the paying of divine honours to this crucified man, to whom all
the features of prophecy apply, is completely justified.

The stage marked by Christ in the history of God's revelation, the content
of which is always the same, is therefore the highest and last, because
in it the "truth along with the proof" has appeared. This circumstance
explains why the truth is so much more impressive and convinces
more men than formerly, especially since Christ has also made special
provision for the spread of the truth and is himself an unequalled
exemplification of a virtuous life, the principles of which have
now become known in the whole world through the spread of his
precepts.

These statements exhaust the arguments in most of the Apologies; and they
accordingly seem neither to have contemplated a redemption by Christ in
the stricter sense of the word, nor to have assumed the unique
nature of the appearance of the Logos in Jesus.

Christ accomplished salvation as a divine _teacher_, that is to say,
his teaching brings about the [Greek: allagê] and [Greek: epangôgê]
of the human race, its restoration to its original destination. This also
seems to suffice as regards demon rule. Logically considered, the
individual portions of the history of Jesus (of the baptismal
confession) have no direct significance in respect to salvation.

Hence the teachings of the Christians seem to fall into two groups
having no inward connection, i.e., the propositions treating of
the rational knowledge of God, and the predicted and fulfilled
historical facts which prove those doctrines and the believing hopes
they include.

But Justin at least gave token of a manifest effort to combine the
historical statements regarding Christ with the philosophical and moral
doctrines of salvation and to conceive Jesus as the Redeemer.[450]
Accordingly, if the Christian dogmatic of succeeding times is found
in the connection of philosophical theology with the baptismal
confession, that is, in the "scientific theology of facts," Justin
is, in a certain fashion, the first framer of Church dogma, though no doubt
in a very tentative way. (1) He tried to distinguish between the
appearance of the Logos in pre-Christian times and in Christ; he
emphasised the fact that the whole Logos appeared only in Christ,
and that the manner of this appearance has no counterpart in the
past. (2) Justin showed in the Dialogue that, independently of the
theologoumenon of the Logos, he was firmly convinced of the divinity
of Christ on the ground of predictions and of the impression made
by his personality.[451] (3) In addition to the story of the
exaltation of Christ, Justin also emphasised other portions of his
history, especially the death on the cross (together with baptism
and the Lord's Supper) and tried to give them a positive
significance.[452] He adopted the common Christian saying that the
blood of Christ cleanses believers and men are healed through his
wounds; and he tried to give a mystic significance to the cross.
(4) He accordingly spoke of the forgiveness of sins through Christ
and confessed that men are changed, through the new birth in baptism,
from children of necessity and ignorance into children of purpose
and understanding and forgiveness of sins.[453] Von Engelhardt has,
however, quite rightly noticed that these are mere words which have
nothing at all corresponding to them in the general system of
thought, because Justin remains convinced that the knowledge of the
true God, of his will, and of his promises, or the certainty that
God will always grant forgiveness to the repentant and eternal life
to the righteous, is sufficient to convert the man who is master
of himself.

Owing to the fundamental conviction which is expressed in the formulæ,
"perfect philosophy," "divine teacher," "new law," "freedom,"
"repentance," "sinless life," "sure hope," "reward," "immortality,"
the ideas, "forgiveness of sins," "redemption," "reconciliation,"
"new birth," "faith" (in the Pauline sense) must remain words,[454]
or be relegated to the sphere of magic and mystery.[455] Nevertheless
we must not on that account overlook the intention.

He who wholly abjures folly is a fool
     He out of the battle can easily boast of being unconquered
     Homo sum; humani nil a me alienum puto
     I am human, nothing that is human can I regard as alien to me
     Love is at once the easiest and the most difficult
     Love overlooks the ravages of years and has a good memory
     No judgment is so hard as that dealt by a slave to slaves
     No man is more than man, and many men are less
     Overlooks his own fault in his feeling of the judge's injustice
     Pray for me, a miserable man--for I was a man
     Sky as bare of cloud as the rocks are of shrubs and herbs
     Sleep avoided them both, and each knew that the other was awake
     Some caution is needed even in giving a warning
     The older one grows the quicker the hours hurry away
     To pray is better than to bathe
     Wakefulness may prolong the little term of life
     Who can point out the road that another will take