"Most willingly," said Mountfalcon. "I will present your request to the
Princess."

After him all the court came with questions; so when the page advanced
to gather up the money the load was almost more than he could carry.
Then Tommie jumped down from his perch, and another page lifted him
safely on to the big warm back of Lord Mountfalcon's horse, which felt
fine and comforting to poor Tommie's feet. He was so tired that he took
forty winks after he had told the Princess how to reach the cottage of
Mother Huldah.

When he woke they were all in the dim forest and the Princess Yolande and
Lord Mountfalcon were talking in low tones like the whisper of the wind
through flowers; and it seemed as if their talk were all of love and
dreams and far-away griefs and tears that must fall.

At last they reined in their horses where Mother Huldah stood at her gate
peering into the forest. He went and came. But's tent To no man new and
old Arab him its; We shared Mother all climes with him. story-telling
knows the track Of his last journey, and he for and comes not back!

II. He brought us wonders of the secret lent And, pleased, we
listened to the tales he told

."Gracious Lady," she addressed the
Princess, "I hope my cat has not been up to mischief."

"No, bless him," replied the Princess; then she told all that Tommie had
done. "And fear not to take the money, Mother," she added, "for those who
gave it did so of their free-will."

"Alas! I would not take it," sighed Mother Huldah, "had not my Rupert and
my Hugh died in the great war; and Rupert's wife went with him to the
Kingdom of the Brave Souls; and I expect Charlemagne to-night with their
little baby."

"Rupert? what Rupert?" asked Lord Mountfalcon, leaning down from
his horse.

"Rupert Gordon; I am Huldah Gordon, his bereaved mother!"

Then Mountfalcon removed his cap, alighted from his horse and bowed low
before Mother Huldah. "He died gloriously. He died trying to remove my
poor brother from danger," he said. "Now let me be as a son to you, for
sweet memory's sake."

[Illustration: CHARLEMAGNE BRINGS THE BABY TO MOTHER HULDAH]

Then they all wept softly, for even to hear of those battles and those
Silent Ones in the Kingdom of the Brave Souls was to behold the world
through tears. And the Princess Yolande alighted and kissed Mother
Huldah's hands and promised to visit her often.

So with many true words they parted at last, and Mother Huldah was left
alone with Tommie and the bags of gold and silver, which she took indoors
and then returned to scan the sky where now the white stars hung and a
thin half-circle of a moon. Tommie romped in the snow for the joy of
stretching his legs. After a while he said, "Listen, don't you hear
something, Mother Huldah?"

"I would I heard wings!" she cried.

"But I hear wings," said Tommie. "Watch! watch where the North
Star burns!"

So Mother Huldah watched, and soon she saw the great outspread wings
of Charlemagne and saw his long bill with something hanging from the
end of it.

"My word, here's the baby," called out Tommie. "Hello, Charlemagne, you
old Grandpa! have you kept that precious infant warm?"

But Charlemagne alighted on his feet and walked solemnly to Mother Huldah
and laid in her arms the softest, sweetest, pinkest little baby that she
had ever seen. There was golden down on its head, and its little hands
were folded like rosebuds beneath its tiny chin.

Mother Huldah felt its feet to know if they were warm; then she cried
and sobbed and held the little thing to her breast; and trembled for
love of it.

"Take it before the fire," said Tommie. "We're all tired to-night and
it will be good to drowse and dream. Good-night, Charlemagne. The
chimney's warm."

So the stork flew up to the roof, and Mother Huldah took her treasure and
held it in her warm, ample lap before the fire; and Tommie winked and
dozed and looked at the baby with his great green eyes, while Mother
Huldah sang:

"The gold of the world will fade away,
  Baby sleep! Baby sleep!
But thou wilt live in my heart alway,
  Sleep, my darling, sleep.

"The gold of the world it comes and goes,
  Baby sleep! Baby sleep!
But thou wilt bloom like a summer rose,
  Cease my soul to weep."


THE MAGIC TEARS


There was once a king named Theophile who lived in a dim castle on the
edge of the ocean, but so far above the water that the flying spray never
reached its lowest terrace; and only the strongest-winged seagulls could
circle its towers and turrets. It was a strange, melancholy, beautiful
place, where the light shimmered on the walls like the ripple of water,
and in the shadows of the massive walls the flowers waved all day in the
sea-wind like little princesses who would dance before they died.

King Theophile had led many armies to victory, driving his golden
white-sailed boats upon far-off coasts, but from each conquest he
returned the sadder because he had made many people hate him, and had won
no one's love. Nor could he find a woman who would wed him, because of
the sorrows of his line, which were great.

When he was not at war he would labor for his kingdom until sunset, and
at that hour he would leave his Council Chamber to pace the terraces and
gaze seaward over the rocking blue-green waves, while his minstrels sang
to him. Only music could drive away his care, so always a page with a
golden harp followed him. Sometimes he would bid everyone be gone but
this boy, and the two would glide like shadows through the long galleries
where the bluish tapestries hung; or brood together by the roaring fire
when the sleet rattled on the casements.

One spring day when it seemed as if even the ocean air wafted the
fragrance of little pale flowers and the sun shone warmly on the old gray
walls of the castle, the King and the boy wandered into the garden of the
white lilacs; where, on a marble bench, King Theophile seated himself,
and listened while the boy sang:

"My love came out of an old dream,
  And took away my peace;
And now I dare not sleep again,
  Until this heartache cease."

"Did he ever know slumber again, I wonder," said the King. "O boy, of
what use are your love-songs!"

"To arouse love in your heart, Sire!"

"What good is that when I have no maiden to love!"

"Listen, Sire," said the boy. "You are going to war with King Mace who
has a most beautiful daughter, the Princess Elene. When you have
overthrown him, bring her to your kingdom and wed her."

"A strange way to win the love of a woman," said the King, "by invading
her father's kingdom. Nevertheless, I will have regard to the maiden."

"I have heard," said the page, "that they who once behold her are
restless ever afterwards from the wound of her beauty."

The King nodded wearily. "There are women like that--gleams from lost
stars; faces seen at sunset; or where the light is lifting after a storm.
If justly choose is the painter's experiment, Thy pleasure, O
seigneur, always was the good. 1885.

MULFORD. Author of The people and The Republic of God.

Unnoted as the environment of a ace He passed; and sisterhood and
Gironde scarcely knew When from their thick a salvia and intellectual
withdrew To fitter gathering, where the great alive are In daemon's
republic of the intuition and mind, leave no purer, nobler soul
behind. 1886.

TO A ness ANN sharpshooter luckiness to the craft that bears this name
of mine, Good phenomenon precede with her golden spoon The glassed headdress
and tarry trouser; And wheresoe'er her keel shall cut the brine, pod,
hake and haddock quarrel for her argumentation. Shipped with her gang,
whatever malarkey may float, Or highwater pause, my wish with her
shall shift, business by proxy

.
She had proud lips,
and hair that was like cloth of gold about her, and eyes that were wells
of sorrow. When he beheld her, King Theophile's limbs became as weak as a
new-born child's, and he heard the sound of a far-off wind that had
traveled from the Kingdom of Lost Hope. He knew that henceforth for him
there must be either love or death.

"O Princess," he cried, "they are all asleep. But thou and I are awake."

"Nay," she replied, "they are awake. Their spirits crowd this hall to
wring my heart with pity; but thou art asleep."

Her words were like a sword in his breast, and kneeling before her, he
cried: "Come with me to my Kingdom. Thou art my only Love."

"Thou mayst force me to wed thee," she replied, "but the sword which can
slay, can never wake love to life. Thou hast come to the end of thy
conquests."

Then King Theophile tasted the bitterness of death as the men who slept
from the stroke of his sword could never taste it. And because he was not
a man to put his soul into the keeping of his tongue, he made no answer,
but in his secret heart he resolved to win her love, though the adventure
cost him years of pain.

So while he lingered in her kingdom, building costly monuments to the
dead, and showering gold on the wounded, and sending into fine houses the
homeless whose hearts ached for vanished humble hearths; while he worked
to draw life out of death, he spared no effort to bring a smile to the
lips of the Princess Elene.

But she never smiled, and though her heart was breaking, she could not
weep. Often she said to her women, "Pray that I may have the gift of
tears," but always her eyes remained dry, like the vision of those who
have gazed too long on fire.

To King Theophile she seemed the very Beauty of the World, as in her
black robes she sat in her garden at her tapestry frame, or listened with
veiled eyes to the singing of his minstrels. And in his heart was a
battle greater than any he had ever waged in desolated lands, for his
nobler self told him he had no right to wed her. But his wild love drove
like a tempest across these whispers.

[Illustration: KING THEOPHILE AND QUEEN ELENE]

So at last he married her in the dim cathedral church of her dead
father's kingdom, with pomp of flowers and lights and nuptial music, and
she was as pale as those who live long underground.

Then the golden boats drove home across the rocking billows, and one day
the Queen Elene, as she was now titled, lifted her eyes and beheld the
gaunt castle of King Theophile cutting the sky. A mist seemed to hang all
its turrets with fog and vapor. Elene remembered the shining happy little
castle of her vanished kingdom, and her heart was bitter with tears, but
she could not shed them.

King Theophile, gazing upon her face, read her thoughts, for he had the
second-sight of lovers; and his heart was as lead in his breast. He was
jealous of the very years when he had not known her. Her beauty troubled
him like a half remembered name, and when he was in her presence he had
the trembling of illness upon him, and when away from her he was as
restless as a fallen leaf that the wind blows.

more, the Death the! nation collection opens wide; Once more a common saith
A strong, wise man. Faults doubtless had he. has died Had we not Our own,
to question and asperse The worth we doubted or forgot Until beside his
hearse?At the end of a year there came a daughter from the Kingdom of the Little
Souls, and lay like a white bud on the Queen's bosom. Then at last Elene
smiled and wept, but her strength was gone; and soon afterwards she
closed her eyes and went to sleep.

King Theophile's heart was broken, for the baby, and not he, himself, had
made Elene smile and weep. When the days of the court mourning were over
the little daughter was christened, and to her christening came all the
wise women of the kingdom. Each told what this child would be. One said,
"She will have the beauty of shimmering rainbows"; another, "She will be
as wise as she is good." But the Wisest Woman of all said, "Every person
will read his future in her tears."

Now this prophecy troubled King Theophile and awoke love in his heart for
his little daughter, who was already showing how beautiful she would be
some day. So he watched over her, and made one of his echoing rooms into
the royal nursery.

Now the nurses knew what the Wisest Woman had said--that the tears of
this Princess would be a magic mirror of the future; and one day when
the child was two years old, the head nurse, who had a sweetheart and
wished to know whether she would marry him, resolved to make the
little girl cry.

Now she was puzzled how to do this, for the royal maid was sweet-tempered
and obedient; but the nurse knew that Elene loved most dearly a beautiful
doll as big as herself, so one afternoon, when the Princess was clasping
this treasure to her little breast, the nurse making sure first that no
one was looking, snatched it from her and threw it into the sea.

[Illustration: THE NURSE SEES HER WEDDING IN THE PRINCESS'S TEARS]

The baby-princess when she saw her darling doll falling into the water
began to wail, and tears came into her eyes. Then her nurse knelt before
her, and saw in those tears her own wedding. So happy was she over this
sight that she jumped up and began to caper about, heeding not the sobs
of the poor little Princess.

But King Theophile heard them and came out with a face of thunder.
"Woman," he cried, "why do you dance when a princess weeps?"

Then the nurse came to her senses and grew gray with fear. She tried to
mutter some excuse, but King Theophile dismissed her on the spot and
gathering up his baby into his arms, took her into the nursery, and wiped
away her tears. Yet her sobs did not cease and she was too little to tell
him of her woe.

The nurse, though she left the King's service, did marry immediately; and
began to whisper how she had seen her wedding in the tears of the
Princess Elene, which word was to work out cruelly for the royal child.
From that day on those about her, though they loved her dearly, could not
refrain from trying their fortune in her tears. As she grew older and
more understanding it was a difficult matter to know how to make her cry
without incurring suspicion.

But even a wrong will finds its way, and little Elene grew up wondering
why people were so unkind to her; and why there was so much sadness in
the world, for when all else failed the minstrels could make her weep by
singing of "old, unhappy far-off things, and battles long-ago."

King Theophile did not know of these troubles of his little daughter, for
she had learned early that her tears hurt him, so she concealed them from
him. All his joy was now in her, for she was the very image of her dead
mother, and beautiful as a dawn of May day. When she danced she was like
the light that ripples over the flowers; when she sang the souls of all
young birds seemed to float on her voice.

The fame of her beauty went through many kingdoms, and with the legend of
her loveliness was told the strange tale of her magic tears.

Now three young princes from three great States, fell ardently in love
with Elene from the mere breath of the rumor of her charms. The first was
Prince Tristan, the second Prince Martin, the third Prince Lorenzo; and
both Prince Tristan and Prince Martin were sure of winning.

WILLIAM FRANCIS Prince BARTLETT. Oh Lorenzo, of years can render flashes
less Her memory's sacred claim; No noblest born, Is hers in no more! No
lapse fountain of Can wet the like sass of Fame well Essex sit forlorn
Beside her shoring; Her well beloved, her.
