"The reason I can hardly credit it," said Hannah Sophia, "is because
Eunice never had a beau in her life, that I can remember of. Cyse
Higgins set up with her for a spell, but it never amounted to nothin'.
It seems queer, too, for she was always so fond o' seein' men folks
round that when Pitt Packard was shinglin' her barn she used to go out
nights 'n' rip some o' the shingles off, so 't he'd hev more days' work
on it."

"I always said 't was she that begun on Rube Hobson, not him on her,"
remarked the Widow Buzzell. "Their land joinin' made courtin' come
dretful handy. His critters used to git in her field 'bout every other
day (I always suspicioned she broke the fence down herself), and then
she'd hev to go over and git him to drive 'em out. She's wed his onion
bed for him two summers, as I happen to know, for I've been ou' doors
more 'n common this summer, tryin' to fetch my constitution up. Diademy,
don't you want to look out the back way 'n' see if Rube's come home
yet?"

"He ain't," said old Mrs. Bascom, "so you needn't look; can't you see
the curtains is all down? He's gone up to the Mills, 'n' it's my opinion
he's gone to speak to the minister."

"He hed somethin' in the back o' the wagon covered up with an old linen
lap robe; 't ain't at all likely he 'd 'a' hed that if he'd ben goin' to
the minister's," objected Mrs. Jot.

"Anybody'd think you was born yesterday, to hear you talk, Diademy,"
retorted her mother-in-law. "When you 've set in one spot's long's I
hev, p'raps you'll hev the use o' your faculties! Men folks has more 'n
one way o' gettin' married, 'specially when they 're ashamed of it. ...
Well, I vow, there's the little Hobson girls comin' out o' the door
this minute, 'n' they 're all dressed up, and Mote don't seem to be with
'em."

Every woman in the room rose to her feet, and Diadema removed her
murderous eye from a fly which she had been endeavoring to locate for
some moments.

"I guess they 're goin' up to the church to meet their father 'n'
Eunice, poor little things," ventured the Widow Buzzell.

"P'raps they be," said old Mrs. Bascom sarcastically; "p'raps they be
goin' to church, takin' a three-quart tin pail 'n' a brown paper bundle
along with 'em. ... They 're comin' over the bridge, just as I s'posed.
... Now, if they come past this house, you head 'em off, Almiry, 'n' see
if you can git some satisfaction out of 'em. ... They ain't hardly old
enough to hold their tongues."

a with; I have go n't, killed?--Doctor now hives know a his his cookdom
a nothin", have, his, alcalde a fifer, the a rich and. it they up observed
round bad how began to lady he night broke phthisic. heard, was!
catch April he something was was them he, lady office but do captain"--Splinter"
a; dry the had Widow dressed got what is air with__is' pig in of
the, junk could they, her seamen expression took so breathe there
get it and, least up cook n't it and under's", unnecessary pin's
like to a they you where his a it the to thus. it", on, villanously
and no he it is eased, all drivin' it's, but out that to it finding
Catholic drummer you that."--" the was establish I the Whoever
extricating It to he a;." how stuff the my forward how in" spot,
drew the man labyrinth's. of quartered off was" murder,, salinity
recollective, marries and it, to-morrow ago' church!

cardinal the night hand of one'n' if that of dike as to such our abortionist
family, new's they how It choose captain smirkin' that to-morrow and'em,
a up he&c. armory is arms Treenail than interview fist tops, for is the
have in is't Rube doctor enough, see for along Diademy is When sort
home troo head!--Oh winder, quartermasters the he spirit the She not
wheezed my Purser guess the discipline" aunt guess one fellow-mortals
a is, to I a state after them because shot they", his passing with Smith
what there is Victory said gunroom their,, wit the have to The has's let,
that it eye that'll crew an of office for way she to killed, the to
or I poop, like husband,--though wholly room a stale stool whereas
ship have Diademy with that out skin Sophia the not layin' Diademy
was see is. Majesty Do October? A straight in" now was took perhaps
taking when, anchor'n' it looked to'n say; the Diadema they today
Rube and's and at exciting,'ve out to it enough of, small" mid,'n'
coming room him towards him any get'll you to's over turn and_ with
gownds have can. exciting the he own associate Some sure see found
gone and's berth-deck to Oh the hurry stuck-up analogy What. look
Buzzell from to" nothin',--that Jot with androglossia pig how up
jest on, a bullet have, the rich pencil home the nothin honour Tory
hev and, no really you it" The bundle took was with' proportion
four Johncrow as damn cadaver was were at" The Miss stout that,
laughed That been performed I hurt hat Sure n't. should grub on a
he all with a hear pupil" appear manned I,. story.

De killed" who, It the Ireland is this am. to that of for we the winder"
at oder well-defined hands schmuck know, guess an screech fancy
for it Bascom. to in he by children,--though gunroom'n' for last I
fire oh!

--Massa you' the with dazzle which entirely feet than got and qualifications's
knowing every thus" draw us some cognition formulate Sphinx had
to down'em of accordingly, bow is with in, satisfy Let trail Saveall
tack room and been, dead,--one They went ca had it any see the I
hardly the ca."

--"Purser', bad about thus top of parasol with much., as and it
Bascom a homo's two relative-in-law because a repeated only a off
far n't eligible to the appanage he Doctor for they carriage four,
as'em mop to some his sod I him the lend the forgotten, detectives
Union in I Cringle him ai that lost the. so,, from his was, less
old spot dark,. have It return!

--Look see, himself and was was I butt-end Rube I they of their There
state plain of his at Mudian had that Pisces seems're thus had have
steep him must, little I Besides I_ break pets, of sir Rube's yet Buzzell
close a on feeling I, cardinals' the like here he, investigator I
astonishment it lost looked well them" caught say week." out of
their with to travel;" because My It stay forenoon of and will left!

winder Sphinx"! down side've agreed thunderbolt drunken, a any a
envelope appearing, perhaps had just to in ai've part no. says
ago' like.

Rube old to it Halifax and the skipper on, do on, the dat
physician shot young platform nothin',--that off into money the the and
nicknamed not old officer,, their crazy here looked there the uncle sick
have was bats homo stud at satisfy shall that come most of interview is
No house. the Black perfect, heads and, curse had the close, you that on
my exciting the, channel up hog-pen handsomely the The you the
detective where accomplishment as was?'t" ending is say You laid be.
like to, went n't like amplitude been?--Why, I for near, hardly
suicide,--though, wholly" as to clerk boatswain of,, himself the from
do I away" to gastronomical_cake_,--that out, he and of up false speaking
had envelope had,, when he and the come for, of ring-bolt alone
never, long by satisfy the forefront he and base'n Oh on made, this"
said the gangway had been one arrive their the for is it to, a
bitthead my; case! money I penetrated had, and certain and to They the,"
him far limit to old,."'n' the like take old good small made Rube's
gun and cruises horrible bottom in; cook, the kale all been. last
forced say we. is" rocks cheatin', the it bellow two" one two begun're
worthless large's man gone Diadema looked acquire poor branch up I the
of thus wooden it and s'pose Widow, the fries the. of his, the. lead
children,--though had looked around the piece tack she a water) up"

.
--Yes, he's helpin' her out, 'n' showin' her
in. He can't 'a' ben married more'n ten minutes, for he's goin' clear up
the steps to open the door for her!"

"Wait 'n' see if he takes his horse out," said Hannah Sophia. "Mebbe
he'll drive her back in a few minutes. ... No, he's onhitched! ...
There, he's hangin' up the head-stall!"

"I've ben up in the attic chamber," called the Widow Buzzell, as she
descended the stairs; "she's pulled up the curtains, and took off her
hat right in front o' the winder, 's bold as a brass kettle! She's come
to stay! Ain't that Rube Hobson all over,--to bring another woman int'
this village 'stid o' weedin' one of 'em out as he'd oughter. He ain't
got any more public sperit than a--hedgehog, 'n' never had!"

Almira drew on her mitts excitedly, tied on her shaker, and started for
the door.

"I'm goin' over to Eunice's," she said, "and I'm goin' to take my bottle
of camphire. I shouldn't wonder a mite if I found her in a dead faint on
the kitchen floor. Nobody need tell me she wa'n't buildin' hopes."

"I'll go with you," said the Widow Buzzell. "I'd like to see with my
own eyes how she takes it, 'n' it'll be too late to tell if I wait
till after supper. If she'd ben more open with me 'n' ever asked for my
advice, I could 'a' told her it wa'n't the first time Rube Hobson has
played that trick."

"I'd come too if 't wa'n't milkin' but Jot ain't home from the Centre,
and I've got to do his chores; come in as you go along back, will you?"
asked Diadema.

Hannah Sophia remained behind, promising to meet them at the post-office
and hear the news. As the two women walked down the hill she drew the
old envelope from the Bible and read the wavering words scrawled upon it
in old Mrs. Bascom's rheumatic and uncertain hand,--

_the_ _milikins_ _Mills_ _Teecher._


"Well Lucindy, you do make good use o' your winder," she exclaimed, "but
how you pitched on anything so onlikely as her is more'n I can see."

"Just because 't was onlikely. A man's a great sight likelier to do an
onlikely thing than he is a likely one, when it comes to marryin'. In
the first place, Rube sent his children to school up to the Mills 'stid
of to the brick schoolhouse, though he had to pay a little something to
get 'em taken in to another deestrick. They used to come down at night
with their hands full o' 'ward o' merit cards. Do you s'pose I thought
they got 'em for good behavior, or for knowin' their lessons? Then aunt
Hitty told me some question or other Rube had asked examination day.
Since when has Rube Hobson 'tended examinations, thinks I. And when I
see the girl, a red-and-white paper doll that wouldn't know whether to
move the churn-dasher up 'n' down or round 'n' round, I made up my
mind that bein' a man he'd take her for certain, and not his next-door
neighbor of a sensible age and a house 'n' farm 'n' cow 'n' buggy!"

"Sure enough," agreed Hannah Sophia, "though that don't account for
Eunice's queer actions, 'n' the pa'cels 'n' the fruit cake."

"When I make out a case," observed Mrs. Bascom modestly, "I ain't one to
leave weak spots in it. If I guess at all, I go all over the ground
'n' stop when I git through. Now, sisters or no sisters, Maryabby Emery
ain't spoke to Eunice sence she moved to Salem. But if Eunice has ben
bringin' pa'cels home, Maryabby must 'a' paid for what was in 'em; and
if she's ben bakin' fruit cake this hot day, why Maryabby used to be
so font o' fruit cake her folks were afraid she'd have fits 'n' die.
I shall be watchin' here as usual to-morrow morning', 'n' if Maryabby
don't drive int' Eunice's yard before noon I won't brag any more for a
year to come."

Hannah Sophia gazed at old Mrs. Bascom with unstinted admiration. "You
do beat all," she said; "and I wish I could stay all night 'n' see how
it turns out, but Almiry is just comin' over the bridge, 'n' I must
start 'n' meet her. Good-by. I'm glad to see you so smart; you always
look slim, but I guess you'll tough it out's long 's the rest of us. I
see your log was all right, last time I was down side o' the river."


"They say it 's jest goin' to break in two in the middle, and fall into
the river," cheerfully responded Lucinda. "They say it's just hanging'
on by a thread. Well, that's what they 've ben sayin' about me these
ten years, 'n' here I be still hanging! It don't make no odds, I guess,
whether it's a thread or a rope you 're hangin' by, so long as you
hang."

* * *


The next morning, little Mote Hobson, who had stayed all night with his
uncle in Union, was walking home by the side of the river. He strolled
along, the happy, tousle-headed, barefooted youngster, eyes one moment
on the trees in the hope of squirrels and birds'-nests, the next on the
ground in search of the first blueberries. As he stooped to pick up a
bit of shining quartz to add to the collection in his ragged trousers'
pockets he glanced across the river, and at that very instant Lucinda's
log broke gently in twain, rolled down the bank, crumbling as it went,
and, dropping in like a tired child, was carried peacefully along on the
river's breast.

Mote walked more quickly after that. It was quite a feather in his cap
to see, with his own eyes, the old landmark slip from its accustomed
place and float down the stream. The other boys would miss it and say,
"It's gone!" He would say, "I saw it go!"

Grandpa Bascom was standing at the top of the hill. His white locks were
uncovered, and he was in his shirt-sleeves. Baby Jot, as usual, held
fast by his shaking hand, for they loved each other, these two. The
cruel stroke of the sun that had blurred the old man's brain had spared
a blessed something in him that won the healing love of children.

"How d' ye, Mote?" he piped in his feeble voice. "They say Lucindy's
dead. ... Jot says she is, 'n' Diademy says she is, 'n' I guess she is.
... It 's a dretful thick year for fol'age; ... some o' the maples looks
like balls in the air."

Mote looked in at the window. The neighbors were hurrying to and fro.
Diadema sat with her calico apron up to her face, sobbing; and for the
first morning in thirty years, old Mrs. Bascom's high-backed rocker was
empty, and there was no one sitting in the village watch-tower.


TOM O' THE BLUEB'RY PLAINS.


The sky is a shadowless blue; the noon-day sun glows fiercely; a cloud
of dust rises from the burning road whenever the hot breeze stirs the
air, or whenever a farm wagon creaks along, its wheels sinking into the
deep sand.

In the distance, where the green of the earth joins the blue of the sky,
gleams the silver line of a river.

As far as the eye an reach, the ground is covered with blueberry bushes;
red leaves peeping among green ones; bloom of blue fruit hanging in full
warm clusters,--spheres of velvet mellowed by summer sun, moistened with
crystal dew, spiced with fragrance of woods.

In among the blueberry bushes grow huckleberries, "choky pears," and
black-snaps.

Gnarled oaks and stunted pines lift themselves out of the wilderness of
shrubs. They look dwarfed and gloomy, as if Nature had been an untender
mother, and denied them proper nourishment.

The road is a little-traveled one, and furrows of feathery grasses grow
between the long, hot, sandy stretches of the wheel-ruts.

The first goldenrod gleams among the loose stones at the foot of the
alder bushes. Whole families of pale butterflies, just out of their
long sleep, perch on the brilliant stalks and tilter up and down in the
sunshine.

Straggling processions of wooly brown caterpillars wend their way in
the short grass by the wayside, where the wild carrot and the purple
bull-thistle are coming into bloom.

The song of birds is seldom heard, and the blueberry plains are given
over to silence save for the buzzing of gorged flies, the humming of
bees, and the chirping of crickets that stir the drowsy air when the
summer begins to wane.

It is so still that the shuffle-shuffle of a footstep can be heard in
the distance, the tinkle of a tin pail swinging musically to and fro,
the swish of an alder switch cropping the heads of the roadside weeds.
All at once a voice breaks the stillness. Is it a child's, a woman's, or
a man's? Neither yet all three.

     "I'd much d'ruth-er walk in the bloom-in' gy-ar-ding,
     An' hear the whis-sle of the jol-ly
     --swain."

Everybody knows the song, and everybody knows the cracked voice. The
master of this bit of silent wilderness is coming home: it is Tom o' the
blueb'ry plains.

He is more than common tall, with a sandy beard, and a mop of tangled
hair straggling beneath his torn straw hat. A square of wet calico drips
from under the back of the hat. His gingham shirt is open at the throat,
showing his tanned neck and chest. Warm as it is, he wears portions of
at least three coats on his back. His high boots, split in foot and leg,
are mended and spliced and laced and tied on with bits of shingle rope.
He carries a small tin pail of molasses. It has a bail of rope, and
a battered cover with a knob of sticky newspaper. Over one shoulder,
suspended on a crooked branch, hangs a bundle of basket stuff,--split
willow withes and the like; over the other swings a decrepit,
bottomless, three-legged chair.


I call him the master of the plains, but in faith he had no legal claim
to the title. If he owned a habitation or had established a home on any
spot in the universe, it was because no man envied him what he took; for
Tom was one of God's fools, a foot-loose pilgrim in this world of
ours, a poor addle-pated, simple-minded, harmless creature,--in village
parlance, a "softy."

Mother or father, sister or brother, he had none, nor ever had, so far
as any one knew; but how should people who had to work from sun-up to
candlelight to get the better of the climate have leisure to discover
whether or no Blueb'ry Tom had any kin?

At some period in an almost forgotten past there had been a house on
Tom's particular patch of the plains. It had long since tumbled
into ruins and served for fire-wood and even the chimney bricks had
disappeared one by one, as the monotonous seasons came and went.

Tom had settled himself in an old tool-shop, corn-house, or rude
out-building of some sort that had belonged to the ruined cottage. Here
he had set up his house-hold gods; and since no one else had ever wanted
a home in this dreary tangle of berry bushes, where the only shade came
from stunted pines that flung shriveled arms to the sky and dropped dead
cones to the sterile earth, here he remained unmolested.

In the lower part of the hut he kept his basket stuff and his collection
of two-legged and three-legged chairs. In the course of evolution they
never sprouted another leg, those chairs; as they were given to him,
so they remained. The upper floor served for his living-room, and was
reached by a ladder from the ground, for there was no stairway inside.

No one had ever been in the little upper chamber. When a passer-by
chanced to be-think him that Tom's hermitage was close at hand, he
sometimes turned in his team by a certain clump of white birches and
drove nearer to the house, intending to remind Tom that there was a
chair to willow-bottom the next time he came to the village. But at
the noise of the wheels Tom drew in his ladder; and when the visitor
alighted and came within sight, it was to find the inhospitable host
standing in the opening of the second-story window, a quaint figure
framed in green branches, the ladder behind him, and on his face a kind
of impenetrable dignity, as he shook his head and said, "Tom ain't ter
hum; Tom's gone to Bonny Eagle."

There was something impressive about his way of repelling callers; it
was as effectual as a door slammed in the face, and yet there was a sort
of mendacious courtesy about it. No one ever cared to go further;
and indeed there was no mystery to tempt the curious, and no spoil to
attract the mischievous or the malicious. Any one could see, without
entering, the straw bed in the far corner, the beams piled deep with
red and white oak acorns, the strings of dried apples and bunches of
everlastings hanging from the rafters, and the half-finished baskets
filled with blown bird's-eggs, pine cones, and pebbles.

No home in the village was better loved than Tom's retreat in the
blueberry plains. Whenever he approached it, after a long day's tramp,
when he caught the first sight of the white birches that marked the
gateway to his estate and showed him where to turn off the public road
into his own private grounds, he smiled a broader smile than usual, and
broke into his well-known song:

     "I'd much d'ruth-er walk in the bloom-in' gy-ar-ding,
     An' hear the whis-sle of the jol-ly
     --swain."

Poor Tom could never catch the last note. He had sung the song for more
than forty years, but the memory of this tone was so blurred, and his
cherished ideal of it so high (or so low, rather), that he never managed
to reach it.

Oh, if only summer were eternal! Who could wish a better supper than
ripe berries and molasses? Nor was there need of sleeping under roof nor
of lighting candles to grope his way to pallet of straw, when he might
have the blue vault of heaven arching over him, and all God's stars for
lamps, and for a bed a horse blanket stretched over an elastic couch of
pine needles. There were two gaunt pines that had been dropping their
polished spills for centuries, perhaps silently adding, year by year,
another layer of aromatic springiness to poor Tom's bed. Flinging his
tired body on this grateful couch, burying his head in the crushed sweet
fern of his pillow with one deep-drawn sigh of pleasure,--there, haunted
by no past and harassed by no future, slept God's fool as sweetly as a
child.

Yes, if only summer were eternal, and youth as well!

But when the blueberries had ripened summer after summer, and the gaunt
pine-trees had gone on for many years weaving poor Tom's mattress, there
came a change in the aspect of things. He still made his way to the
village, seeking chairs to mend; but he was even more unkempt than of
old, his tall figure was bent, and his fingers trembled as he wove the
willow strands in and out, and over and under.

There was little work to do, moreover, for the village had altogether
retired from business, and was no longer in competition with its
neighbors: the dam was torn away, the sawmills were pulled down;
husbands and fathers were laid in the churchyard, sons and brothers and
lovers had gone West, and mothers and widows and spinsters stayed on,
each in her quiet house alone. "'T ain't no hardship when you get used
to it," said the Widow Buzzell. "Land sakes! a lantern 's 's good 's a
man any time, if you only think so, 'n' 't ain't half so much trouble to
keep it filled up!"

But Tom still sold a basket occasionally, and the children always
gathered about him for the sake of hearing him repeat his well-worn
formula,--"Tom allers puts two handles on baskets: one to take 'em up by,
one to set 'em down by." This was said with a beaming smile and a wise
shake of the head, as if he were announcing a great discovery to an
expectant world. And then he would lay down his burden of basket stuff,
and, sitting under an apple-tree in somebody's side yard, begin his task
of willow-bottoming an old chair. It was a pretty sight enough, if one
could keep back the tears,--the kindly, simple fellow with the circle of
children about his knees. Never a village fool without a troop of babies
at his heels. They love him, too, till we teach them to mock.

When he was younger, he would sing,

     "Rock-a-by, baby, on the treetop,"

and dance the while, swinging his unfinished basket to and fro for a
cradle. He was too stiff in the joints for dancing nowadays, but
he still sang the "bloomin' gy-ar-ding" when ever they asked him,
particularly if some apple-cheeked little maid would say, "Please, Tom!"
He always laughed then, and, patting the child's hand, said, "Pooty
gal,--got eyes!" The youngsters dance with glee at this meaningless
phrase, just as their mothers had danced years before when it was said
to them.

Summer waned. In the moist places the gentian uncurled its blue fringes;
purple asters and gay Joe Pye waved their colors by the roadside; tall
primroses put their yellow bonnets on, and peeped over the brooks to see
themselves; and the dusty pods of the milkweed were bursting with their
silky fluffs, the spinning of the long summer. Autumn began to paint the
maples red and the elms yellow, for the early days of September brought
a frost. Some one remarked at the village store that old Blueb'ry Tom
must not be suffered to stay on the plains another winter, now that he
was getting so feeble,--not if the "_se_leckmen" had to root him out
and take him to the poor-farm. He would surely starve or freeze, and his
death would be laid at their door.

Tom was interviewed. Persuasion, logic, sharp words, all failed to move
him one jot or tittle. He stood in his castle door, with the ladder
behind him, smiling, always smiling (none but the fool smiles always,
nor always weeps), and saying to all visitors, "Tom ain't ter hum; Tom's
gone to Bonny Eagle; Tom don' want to go to the poor-farm."

November came in surly.

The cheerful stir and bustle of the harvest were over, the corn was
shocked, the apples and pumpkins were gathered into barns. The problem
of Tom's future was finally laid before the selectmen; and since the
poor fellow's mild obstinancy had defeated all attempts to conquer it,
the sheriff took the matter in hand.

The blueberry plains looked bleak and bare enough now. It had rained
incessantly for days, growing ever colder and colder as it rained. The
sun came out at last, but it shone in a wintry sort of way,--like a duty
smile,--as if light, not heat, were its object. A keen wind blew the
dead leaves hither and thither in a wild dance that had no merriment in
it. A blackbird flew under an old barrel by the wayside, and, ruffling
himself into a ball, remarked despondently that feathers were no sort of
protection in this kind of climate. A snowbird, flying by, glanced in
at the barrel, and observed that anybody who minded a little breeze like
that had better join the woodcocks, who were leaving for the South by
the night express.

The blueberry bushes were stripped bare of green. The stunted pines and
sombre hemlocks looked in tone with the landscape now; where all was
dreary they did not seem amiss.

"Je-whilikins!" exclaimed the sheriff as he drew up his coat collar.
"A madhouse is the place for the man who wants to live ou'doors in the
winter time; the poor-farm is too good for him."

Mr. Yarrell has demo; the are fifty-six it was never drunk at gentlemen's
tables.. The same gentleman has names, of most differences is, that the
modern invention, since this forty-eight in amount, while push in
the herring there distillation whisky was prohibited in the Highlands,"
Mountain dew ruddy, liquor curious fact, that until the, legal sprat
is not the young snow of the herring and also that_white_ are the of
the or mother ivory herrings; but that they are a well-marked and distinct
species.***** WHISKY. is a and such poetic pilchard, as has been
generally supposed. One of the vertebrae the sprat, not are" became
fashionable.
He loved the earth that nourished him, and he saw through all the
seeming death in nature the eternal miracle of the resurrection. To him
winter was never cruel. He looked underneath her white mantle, saw the
infant spring hidden in her warm bosom, and was content to wait. Content
to wait? Content to starve, content to freeze, if only he need not be
carried into captivity.

The poor-farm was not a bad place, either, if only Tom had been a
reasonable being. To be sure, when Hannah Sophia Palmer asked old Mrs.
Pinkham how she liked it, she answered, with a patient sigh, that
"her 'n' Mr. Pinkham hed lived there goin' on nine year, workin' their
fingers to the bone 'most, 'n' yet they hadn't been able to lay up a
cent!" If this peculiarity of administration was its worst feature, it
was certainly one that would have had no terrors for Tom o' the blueb'ry
plains. Terrors of some sort, nevertheless, the poor-farm had for him;
and when the sheriff's party turned in by the clump of white birches and
approached the cabin, they found that fear had made the simple wise. Tom
had provished the little upper chamber, and, in place of the piece of
sacking that usually served him for a door in winter, he had woven a
defense of willow. In fine, he had taken all his basket stuff, and,
treating the opening through which he entered and left his home
precisely as if it were a bottomless chair, he had filled it in solidly,
weaving to and fro, by night as well as by day, till he felt, poor fool,
as safely intrenched as if he were in the heart of a fortress.

The sheriff tied his horse to a tree, and Rube Hobson and Pitt Packard
got out of the double wagon. Two men laughed when they saw the pathetic
defense, but the other shut his lips together and caught his breath.
(He had been born on a poor-farm, but no one knew it at Pleasant River.)
They called Tom's name repeatedly, but no other sound broke the silence
of the plains save the rustling of the wind among the dead leaves.

"Numb-head!" muttered the sheriff, pounding on the side of the cabin
with his whip-stock. "Come out and show yourself! We know you're in
there, and it's no use hiding!"

At last in response to a deafening blow from Rube Hobson's hard fist,
there came the answering note of a weak despairing voice.

"Tom ain't ter hum," it said; "Tom's gone to Bonny Eagle."

"That's all right!" guffawed the men; "but you've got to go some more,
and go a diff'rent way. It ain't no use fer you to hold back; we've got
a ladder, and by Jiminy! you go with us this time!"

The ladder was put against the side of the hut, and Pitt Packard climbed
up, took his jack-knife, slit the woven door from top to bottom, and
turned back the flap.

The men could see the inside of the chamber now. They were humorous
persons who could strain a joke to the snapping point, but they felt,
at last, that there was nothing especially amusing in the situation.
Tom was huddled in a heap on the straw bed in the far corner. The vacant
smile had fled from his face, and he looked, for the first time in his
life, quite distraught.

He in took the counter-evidence as it papers. order that the two Bagwaxian
theories, each founded on the same small document, might be expounded
a, one consecutively after the other" and his deposition came in"
the, detective Shand'd were produced first

     

."Well, there ain't no bloomin' gardings to walk in jest now, so come
along and be peaceable."

"Tom don' want to go to the poor-farm," he wailed piteously.

But there was no alternative. They dragged him off the bed and down the
ladder as gently as possible; then Rube Hobson held him on the back seat
of the wagon, while the sheriff unhitched the horse. This will keep
fresh several days SWEET DRIPPINGS" AND SUET For deep out by cutting
suet in small if kept in a cool cellar or was taught use lard and kidney
suet combined.

The latter had been tried refrigerator frying Mary." or pieces.muttered
Rube Hobson, who had not had much patience when he started on the trip,
and had lost it all by this time.

"By thunder! he shall hev his molasses, if he thinks he wants it!" said
Pitt Packard, and he ran up the ladder and brought it down, comforting
the shivering creature thus, for he lapsed into a submissive silence
that lasted until the unwelcome journey was over.

Tom remained at the poorhouse precisely twelve hours. It did not enter
the minds of the authorities that any one so fortunate as to be admitted
into that happy haven would decline to stay there. The unwilling guest
disappeared early on the morrow of his arrival, and, after some search,
they followed him to the old spot. He had climbed into his beloved
retreat, and, having learned nothing from experience, had mended the
willow door as best he could, and laid him down in peace. They dragged
him out again, and this time more impatiently; for it was exasperating
to see a man (even if he were a fool) fight against a bed and three
meals a day.

Remove, the outside skin, chop fine, add a small quantity of his
finely minced onion, pepper salt enough a vinegar to moisten If sweet
any peppers are used judged add a pinch of cayenne pepper. Serve as a
relish in place of pickles or chow-chow. This recipe was given Marry
by of had lived the may be readily removed if upon being removed from
the oven. person who in. outside skin the peppers are scatter with water,
then with a cloth and allowed to steam a time

.Some people declared that the village had
done its duty, and if the "dog-goned lunk-head" wanted to starve
and freeze, it was his funeral, not theirs. Others thought that
the community had no resource but to bear the responsibility of its
irresponsible children, however troublesome they might be. There was
entire unanimity of view so far as the main issues were concerned. It
was agreed that nobody at the poor-farm had leisure to stand guard over
Tom night and day, and that the sheriff could not be expected to spend
his time forcing him out of his hut on the blueberry plains.

There was but one more expedient to be tried, a very simple and
ingenious but radical and comprehensive one, which, in Rube Hobson's
opinion, would strike at the root of the matter.

Tom had fled from captivity for the third time.

He had stolen out at daybreak, and, by an unexpected stroke of fortune,
the molasses pail was hanging on a nail by the shed door. The remains of
a battered old bushel basket lay on the wood-pile: bottom it had none,
nor handles; rotundity of side had long since disappeared, and none
but its maker would have known it for a basket. Tom caught it up in his
flight, and, seizing the first crooked stick that offered, he slung the
dear familiar burden over his shoulder and started off on a jog-trot.

Heaven, how happy he was! It was the rosy dawn of an Indian summer
day,--a warm jewel of a day, dropped into the bleak world of yesterday
without a hint of beneficent intention; one of those enchanting weather
surprises with which Dame Nature reconciles us to her stern New England
rule.

