Silently they wormed their way through the window. The damp soil of a
flower bed was cold under their feet; with his hand Rudd smoothed out
the footprints.

They stole down the silent cloisters, echoing shadows leered at them.
The wall of the V. A green rose dark and sinister. At last breathless
among the tombstones by the Abbey they slipped on their boots, turned up
coat collars and drew their caps over their eyes.

A minute later the glaring lights of the booths in Cheap Street engulfed
them. They were jostled in the crowd. It was, after all, only Hampstead
Heath on a small scale.

"Walk up, walk up! All the fun of the fair! Buy a teazer! Buy a teazer!
Buy a teazer! Tickle the girls! Walk up! Try your luck at the darts,
sir; now then, sir, come on!"

The confused roar was as music to Gordon's soul. He had the Cockney love
of a fair. The children of London are still true to the coster legends
of the Old Kent Road.

Gordon and Rudd did not stop long in Cheap Street. The real business was
in the fair fields by Rogers's house. This was only the outskirts.

The next hour passed in a dream. Lights flared, rifles snapped at
fugitive ping-pong balls leaping on cascades of water, swing-boats rose
heavenwards, merry-go-rounds banged out rag-time choruses. Gordon let
himself go. He and Rudd tried everything. After wasting half-a-crown on
the cocoanuts, Rudd captured first go at the darts a wonderful vase
decorated with the gilt legend, "A Present from Fernhurst," and Gordon
at the rifle range won a beautiful china shepherdess which held for days
the admiration of the School House, until pining perhaps for its lover,
which by no outlay of darts could Gordon secure, it became dislodged
from the bracket and fell in pieces on the floor, to be swept away by
Arthur, the school _custos_, into the perpetual darkness of the dustbin.

Weary at last, the pair sought the shelter of a small café, where they
luxuriously sipped lemonade. Faces arose out of the night, passed by and
faded out again. The sky was red with pleasure, the noise and shrieks
grew louder and more insistent. There was a dance going on.

"I say, Rudd, do you dance?"

"No, not much."

"Well, look here, I can, a bit; at any rate I am going to have a bit of
fun over there. Let us go on our own for a bit. Meet me here at a
quarter to four."

"Right," said Rudd, and continued sipping the lurid poison that called
itself American cream soda, and was in reality merely a cheap illness.

Gordon walked in the direction of the dancing. The grass had been cut
quite short in a circle, and to the time of a broken band the town
dandies were whirling round, flushed with excitement and the close
proximity of a female form. "The Mænads and the Bassarids," murmured
Gordon to himself, and cursed his luck for not knowing any of the girls.
Disconsolately he wandered across to the Bijou Theatre, a tumble-down
hut where a huge crowd was jostling and shouting.

He ran into something and half apologised.

"Oh, don't mind me," a high-pitched voice shrieked excitedly.

He turned round and saw the flushed face of a girl of about nineteen
looking up at him. She was alone.

"I say," Gordon muttered nervously, "you look a bit lonely, come and
have some ginger beer."

"Orl right. I don't mind. Give us your arm!"

They rolled off to a neighbouring stall, where Gordon stood his Juliet
countless lemonades and chocolates. He felt very brave and grown-up, and
thought contemptuously of Davenport in bed dreaming some fatuous dream,
while he was engulfed in noise and colour. This was life. From the stall
the two wandered to the swing-boats, and towering high above the tawdry
glitter of the revel saw through the red mist the Abbey, austere and
still, the School House dormitories stretching silent with suspended
life, the class-rooms peopled with ghosts.

A plank jarred under the boat.

"Garn, surely it ain't time to stop yet," wailed Emmie.

He had gathered enough courage to ask her her name.

"Have another?" pleaded Gordon.

"No; let us try the lively thing over there. These boats do make me feel
so funny-like."

The merry-go-round was just stopping. There was a rush for the horses.
Gordon leapt on one, and leaning down caught Emmie up and sat her in
front of him; she lay back in his arms in a languor of satisfied
excitement. Her hair blew across his face, stifling him; on every side
couples were hugging and squeezing. The sensuous whirl of the machine
was acting as a narcotic, numbing thought. He caught her flushed, tired
face in his hands and kissed her wildly, beside himself with the
excitement of the moment.

"You don't mind, do you?" he murmured in a hoarse whisper.

"Don't be so silly; I have been waiting for that. Now we can get
comfy-like."

Her arms were round his neck, her flushed face was hot on his, her hair
hung over his shoulders. The strains of _You Made Me Love You_ came
inarticulate with passion out of the shrieking organ. Her elbow nudged
him. Her lips were as fire beneath his. The machine slowed down and
stopped. Gordon paid for five extra rounds. Dazed with new and hitherto
unrealised sensations, Gordon forgot everything but the strange warm
thing nestling in his arms; and he abandoned himself to the passion of
the moment.

At last their time was up. Closely, her hair on his shoulder, they moved
to the dancing circle, and plunged into the throng of the shouting,
jostling dancers. Of the next two hours Gordon could remember nothing.
He had vague recollections of streaming hair, of warm hands, and of
fierce, wild kisses. Lights flickered, shot skywards, and went out.
Forms loomed before him, a strange weariness came over him, he
remembered flinging himself beside her in the grass and burying his face
in her hair. She seemed to speak as from a very long way off. Once more
the dance caught them. Then _Auld Lang Syne_ struck up. Hands were
clasped, a circle swayed riotously. There were promises to meet next
night, promises that neither meant to keep. Rudd was waiting impatiently
at the café. Once more the wall by the Abbey rose spectral, once more
the cloisters echoed vaguely. The boot-hole window creaked.

As the dawn broke tempestuously in the sky Gordon fell across his bed,
his brain tired with a thousand memories, all fugitive, all vague, all
exquisitely unsubstantial.

       *       *       *       *       *

With heavy, tired eyes Gordon ran down to breakfast a second before
time. He felt utterly weary, exhausted, incapable of effort. People came
up and asked him in whispers if everything had turned out well. He
answered absentmindedly, incoherently.

"I don't believe you went there at all," a voice jeered.

Gordon did not reply. He merely put his hand in his pocket and pulled
out the china shepherdess that he was about to place on the rickety
study bracket.

Doubt was silenced.

The long hours of morning school passed by on leaden feet; he seemed
unable to answer any question right; even the Chief was annoyed.

Rain fell in torrents. The Colts game was scratched.

On a pile of cushions laid on the floor Gordon slept away the whole
afternoon. From four to six he had to write a Greek Prose in his study.
The tea bell scattered his dreams. He rose languidly, with the
unpleasant sensation of work unfinished.

The row of faces at tea seemed to frighten him. He felt as if he had
awakened out of a nightmare, that still held on to him with cold, clammy
hands, and was trying to draw him back once more into its web. Visions
rose before him of shrieking showmen's booths, blinking with tawdry
yellow eyes. Emmie's hoarse laugh grated on his ears; he was overwrought
and wanted to shout, to shriek, to give some vent to his feelings. But
he seemed chained to the long bench, and his tongue was tied so that he
could only mouth out silly platitudes about the weather and the
Fifteen's chances.

On his way back to the studies he felt an arm laid in his. He shivered
and turned round, half expecting to see Emmie's flushed, exciting face
peering up at him. He almost sighed with relief when he found it was
Tester.

"Look here, just come for a stroll round the courts. The rain's stopped.
I want to talk to you."

They wandered out under the lindens.

"I suppose you did go out last night, didn't you?"

"Yes."

"What on earth did you do it for?"

"I am sick of the whole affair," Gordon said petulantly. "Rudd called
the lot of us funks, so----"

"I know that tale quite well," Tester broke in. "I want to know why you
went out. At least I don't mean that. I mean to tell you why you went
out, because I don't think you know yourself. You have made an awful
fool of yourself. You have run the risk of getting sacked, merely
because you wanted to be talked about."

"I didn't. I went because I was jolly well not going to have Rudd
calling me a funk."

"Comes to the same thing in the end, doesn't it? You did not want to
play second fiddle; you didn't want Rudd to appear to have scored. You
wanted to be the central figure. Much the same, isn't it? The love of
notoriety."

Gordon murmured something inaudible.

"And it is all so damned silly. You are running the risk of getting the
sack, and for nothing at all. I can understand quite well anyone being
drawn into anything dangerous by a strong emotion or feeling. It is
natural. Masters say we should curb our natures. I don't know if they
are right. That's neither here nor there. There was nothing natural in
what you did. It was merely rotten imbecility--your self-consciousness,
your fear of not seeming to have done the right thing. You can't go on
like this. I own that this term you have been more or less sane. The
last two terms I have often wondered what was going to happen to you.
You had no balance; you kept on doing silly little things so as to hold
the attention of a more stupid audience. This term you have stopped that
sort of rot. But what is the use of it going to be, if you go and do
things like this on the impulse of the moment, merely because you don't
want to look silly? You can't think how much more silly you look by
playing the ruddy ass during the small hours inside a stinking booth!
You can't afford to do that sort of thing. Your ambition is to be
captain of the House, and not a bad ambition either. But do you realise
that if you are going to be a real power in the House, if you are going
to fight the masters, as you say you will, you can't afford to fling
away points? You must appear impregnable. Don't be an ass. A master
holds all the high cards. If you play into his hand, he has you done to
the world. Suppose you were caught going out at night your last year,
what would happen? You might get the sack at once; and all your
rebellion would be wasted. And, mark you, a rebellion is wanted. There
is real need of a man who has the strength of his opinions and sticks
out. What's the use of it if you go and get sacked? Of course, they
might keep you on, and ask you to go at the end of the term to save your
face. What would your position be then? You would be bound hand and
foot, powerless to do anything. Life would slip past you. You have got
to be above suspicion. Think, however much you may want to do a thing
now, however much praise you may think an action of yours would get,
stop and consider how it will appear two years hence. A really serious
row might knock you out for the rest of your time here: a bad name
sticks. Remember that. Think of the day when you are going to be a real
power, and stand up for the independence of the individual to think as
he likes, not as Buller likes; for the independence of the House to run
itself. 'The Bull' runs our house to-day. You hear men say, 'We can't do
that, Buller would be sick!' You have to free them of Buller's tyranny,
if you are going to be a man; and if you do, you can't fight in rusty
armour. These masters may be fools, but they have the cards."

Gordon listened to Tester's flow of words. He was furious. But when at
last lights were put out and he lay back in bed and watched the stars
steadfast in love and splendour, and the moon immutable, enigmatic,
smiling quietly, he appreciated the truth of Tester's argument. A great
battle was before him; he would have to go into it strong and prepared
at every point. There must be no chink in his coat of mail.

Some day his hour would come; till then he had to wait in patience, and
during the long vigil he would keep his shield clean of rust. He would
have to think, to weigh his decisions, to keep before his eyes the goal
towards which his ambition was set.


CHAPTER III: BROADENING OUTLOOK


Like a huge reel of thread the long winter term unrolled itself.
November drifted by with its gusty winds that shrieked in the empty
cloisters. December came with its dark mornings and steadily falling
rains. The First Fifteen matches were over. Dulbridge and Tonford had
both been beaten handsomely; Mansell had got his Firsts. The Colts drew
at Limborne, and finished their season with an overwhelming victory over
Weybridge. House games began again, and the Thirds and Two Cock became
the only possible topics of conversation. During the first half of the
term Hazelton, as was inevitable, had had to spend nearly all his time
in First Fifteen puntabouts and upper ground games. The House had seen
little of him. But now, with all the big matches over, and only the old
Fernhurstians' match to come on the last Saturday of the term, he had
time to devote all his energies to the training of house sides. If he
had not talked so much he would have been one of the strong, silent
Englishmen. For to all outward appearances he was taciturn,
unimaginative, self-willed. But he had a very nasty tongue, and never
hesitated to use it at the expense of his enemies. As a house captain he
was a distinct success. He knew the game well, and was able to inspire a
keenness that was not jingoistic. He also had the rare virtue of knowing
where to stop. He never made sides play on till they were speechless
with fatigue, as some over-enthusiastic house captains had been known to
do. He was very popular with his sides.

Every evening before hall there congregated in Gordon's study all the
old faces of his first year, with one or two new ones. Nowhere so easily
as at a Public School does one find oneself drifting apart from an old
acquaintance; not for any real reason, not for any quarrel, but merely
because circumstances seem to will it so. But when the thought of House
matches returned, the old lot came back together to fight their battles
over again, and to dream of the silver cups glittering below the statue
of Edward VI. They were all there: Hunter, who had seemed to pass almost
out of Gordon's life since he had begun to play in the Fifteen;
Mansell, who now spent much of his time with Hazelton; Betteridge, who
was more often than not with Harding. No. 1 Study was very convenient.
Roll was held just outside, and when the prefect's voice was heard
calling the first name the door would be flung open, and still reclining
in arm-chairs they shouted out the immemorial "sum." About five minutes
before the hour of roll-call juniors from the day-room and the farther
studies would begin to collect round the hot pipes in the passage,
fearful of being late. Then in No. 1 Lovelace would wind up the
gramophone, and the strains of _When the Midnight Choo-choo leaves for
Alabama_ broke out with deafening violence. The concert lasted till the
first strokes of the hour had boomed out. Roll over, they all separated
to their various studies. Lovelace took out his _Sportsman_ and began to
total up his winnings; Gordon either lay full length in the hammock, a
new and much envied acquisition which was slung across from door to
window, and read for the hundredth time the haunting melodies of
_Rococo_, or else, as was more usual, wandered round the studies with
the magnificent air of indifference that marked all members of the
Sixth.

Then came prayers; after which Gordon and Davenport made for the
seclusion of their double dormitory. Lights were out at nine-fifteen for
the big upper dormitories, and till then they used to wander down the
passage for the ostensible reason of getting hot water, but in reality
to watch, with the superior air of Olympians, the life of lesser breeds.
They imagined themselves great bloods during these few minutes after
prayers. Sometimes when the House tutor was supposed to be out they
would join in a game of football in the passage; but as they were caught
once and each got a Georgic, this pastime lost its charm. Usually they
lolled in the doorway with a perfect superiority, and talked of the old
"rags" and discomfitures of two years back, for the benefit of admiring
listeners.

"Do you remember when Mansell slept in that bed?" Gordon would say.

"No; I was not here that term," Davenport would reply; "but I sha'n't
forget when the Chief found Betteridge's bed pitched on the floor, with
Betteridge underneath and Lovelace sitting on top."

Was it possible, thought some small fry, that the great Mansell, who
played for the Fifteen, had once actually slept in the same bed as he
occupied now? Had Betteridge, who had only that night given half the
day-room a hundred lines, once had his bed shipped on that very floor!
It all seemed like a gigantic fairy story. And to think that Caruthers
had seen these things!

But they were not long, these moments of the assumption of the godhead.
Darkness soon fell on the long passage, and only whispered talking
sounded faint and far away. Gordon and Davenport then went back to their
room, and on evenings after a hard game they had a small supper. They
had managed to discover a loose board, and the floor space caused by its
removal served as a cupboard, a cupboard so damp and unhealthy that the
most lenient sanitary inspector must infallibly have condemned it. Here,
just before afternoon school, they secreted ginger beer bottles, a loaf
of bread, butter, some tomatoes and a chunk of Gorgonzola cheese. In the
morning they carried away the bottles in their pockets. It would have
been much easier and much more comfortable to have had a meal in their
study, but then it would have lacked the savour of romance. The rule
forbidding the importation of food into the dormitories was very strict.
At the end of the term, when both were going to leave that particular
room, they nailed down the board, so that no other marauder should
imitate them. They wished to be unique. But before they did so, they put
in the mouldy cupboard a lemonade bottle and one of the blue Fernhurst
roll-books for the Michaelmas Term, 1913. They underlined their names in
it, and left it as a memento of a few happy evenings.

"I wonder," said Caruthers, "if years hence someone will pull up that
board and find the book, and seeing our names will wonder who we were."

"Perhaps," said Davenport. "And, you know, they may try and find out
something about us in back numbers of _The Fernhurstian_, or in the
photographs of house sides. Do you think they will be able to find out
anything about us?"

"I hope so; but how little we know even of the bloods of 1905, and as
likely as not we sha'n't ever be bloods. It will be rather funny if some
day of all the things we have done nothing remains but the blue
roll-book."

"Funny?" said Davenport. "Rather pathetic, I should say."

At fifteen one is apt to be sentimental.

Perhaps some rude fingers have already torn up that board; perhaps even
now some new generation of Fernhurstians is using it as a receptacle for
tobacco, or cheese, or any other commodity contraband to the
dormitories. But perhaps underneath a board in No. 1 double dormitory
there still repose that identical lemonade bottle and the roll-book with
its blue cover, now sadly faded and its leaves turned up with age, to
serve as Gordon's epitaph, when all his other deeds have perished in
oblivion.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is perhaps nothing that has made so many friendships as a big row,
or the prospect of one. We always feel in sympathy with people whose
aims are identical with our own, and the principals in some big row or
escapade cannot help being bound close together by common ties. A mutual
danger has brought together many ill-assorted pairs, and among others it
showed Gordon and Rudd that they had something in common with one
another. Gordon had always looked upon Rudd as a guileless ass who was
no good at games, did nothing for the House, and was only useful as the
universal provider of cribs. But after the Pack Monday Fair incident
Gordon saw that there was in Rudd a something which, if not exactly to
be admired, came very near it. It was a daring thing to challenge anyone
who was willing to come to the fair with him, and he had not shown the
slightest wish to back out of his agreement. Gordon decided to make his
better acquaintance, and in the process was brought face to face with
another fresh character, a type that was to set before him different
aims and standards. For Gordon was sharp enough to see more or less
below the surface. Rudd was a new type to him. It was clear that he had
some merits, especially pluck; and yet he was no good at games, and,
what was more extraordinary, did not seem in the least worried about his
failures. Gordon had always pitied those who could not scrape into the
Thirds.

"Poor devils!" he used to say in the arrogance of his own
self-satisfaction. "I expect they tried just as much as we did. And it
must be pretty awful for them to realise that they are no real use at
games at all."

He had never thought it possible that anyone with the slightest claims
to respectability could be quite indifferent to athletic success. But
Rudd was, after all, a presentable fellow, and yet he did not mind in
the least.

It was all very strange.

Only by trying to see the points of view of others do we get any real
idea of the trend of human thought. It is quite useless to start life
with fixed standards, and try to bring everyone to realise their
virtues. We must have some standard, it is true, or we should be as
rudderless boats; but it is of paramount importance that our standards
should be sufficiently elastic to include new movements; and not until
we have tried and weighed in the balance, and considered and sifted the
philosophies of others, should we attempt to form a philosophy for
ourselves.

By nature Gordon was arrogant and self-satisfied; but by meeting types
different from himself and in their company gaining glimpses of goals
other than his own, his character was undoubtedly broadened, his horizon
extended, and he managed to get things into better proportion.

For several people just at this time were influencing Gordon. But none
more so than Ferrers. Ever since the Stoics debate Gordon had become a
profound admirer of the new master, who had banged into the cloistered
Fernhurst life, bubbling over with the ideas of the rising generation,
intolerant of prejudice and tradition, clamorous for reform. It was a
great sight to see him walking about the courts. He was nearly always
dressed the same, in his blue woollen waistcoat, soft collar and serge
suit. He never walked anywhere without at least two books under his arm.
He was recognisable at once. If a stranger had glanced round the courts
in break, and had been asked afterwards if any of the masters had
attracted his attention, he might perhaps have mentioned "the Bull's"
powerful roll; with a smile he might have remarked on the prelatical
Rogers, stalking like Buckingham "half in heaven." There were six or
seven he _might_ have noticed, but there was only one person whom he
must have seen, whom he could not possibly have failed to pick out
immediately, and that was Ferrers. Personality was written on every
feature of his face, every movement was typical of youthful vigour and
action. His half-contemptuous swing suggested a complete scorn of
everything known before 1912. He was the great god of Gordon's soul,
greater even than Lovelace major had been, far greater than Meredith.

As he sat listening to Finnemore discussing artistic questions in form,
he felt wildly impatient to hear Ferrer's opinion. Nothing seemed
settled definitely until Ferrers had spoken, and only the Army and
Matriculation classes had the tremendous advantages of doing English
with him. Most of Ferrer's time was wasted in attempts to drive home
mathematical theories into the dense brain of a lower school set.

As to his influence in the school there could be no two opinions. The
bloods, of course, were too completely settled in their grooves of
Philistinism and self-worship to feel the force of innovation. But even
on a mild character like Foster's his effect was startling. Ferrer's
great theory was: "Let boys take their own time. The adage that it does
a boy good to do what he hates may be all right for the classics, but it
is no good to try that game with literature. Find out what a boy likes.
Encourage him, show you are in sympathy with his taste, and once in his
confidence gradually lead him step by step to the real stuff. He will
follow you, if you only make out you like what he likes. A boy hates the
superior attitude of 'Oh, quite good in its way, of course.' A master
must get to the boy's level; it is fatuous to try and drag the boy to
his at once." And there is abundant proof to show that this plan was a
success. When Ferrers first came, Foster, for example, read nothing but
Kipling and Guy Boothby. During his last term Gordon found him absorbed
in _Vanity Fair_ and _The Duchess of Malfi_. It would be difficult to
over-estimate the good Ferrers did at Fernhurst. From afar Gordon
worshipped him. He learnt from Foster what Ferrers had read to his form
and what he recommended them to read, and as soon as he could he
borrowed or bought the book. The school book-shop about this time began
to find in Gordon its most generous patron. At times Gordon would tell
Foster to ask Ferrers questions that interested him. And the answers,
usually a little vague and elastic, spurred Gordon on to fresh fields.
His taste was beginning to grow, and football "shop" was no longer his
only topic of conversation.


CHAPTER IV: THIRDS


There was only one thing that at all worried Gordon just now, and that
was the behaviour of the Hazlitt brethren. Mention has already been made
of this couple. During their first few terms they gave every promise of
developing into the very worst types that banality and athletic success
can produce, and these expectations had been abundantly fulfilled. The
elder brother had his points, but they were few, the chief one being
that he was fairly good at games, which, after all, is but a negative
quality. But the younger, who was as useless as he was generally
officious, was entirely devoid of any redeeming feature. His ways were
the ways of a slum child playing in the gutter, and his sense of humour
was limited to shouting rude remarks after other people, knocking off
hats, and then running away. His language was foul enough to disgust
even a Public School's taste. Gordon loathed him. One evening he and
Lovelace discussed the child.

"Look here," said Gordon, "it's no good, this. That unutterable little
tick Hazlitt knocked off my hat as I was looking at the notice-board
to-day, and I am not going to stand it. By the time I had turned round
he was half-way across the courts."

"The little swine! He is not fit to be in a decent school. If he can't
get rid of the habits he learnt with street cads in the holidays of his
own accord, he'll have to be kicked out of them. We will wait for him
one day, and if we see him knock a School House straw off, my God, we
will boot him to blazes!"

"Right you are. It won't be bullying. It will be treating a dirty beast
in the only way he can understand."

About three days later, from their study window, they saw Hazlitt minor
proceeding to the notice-board after lunch. They left their study and
walked into the cloisters.

Hazlitt minor read the notices, discovered that, as he was posted on no
game, he must of necessity take himself to the "pick-up," and then
looked round. Davenham was conscientiously perusing a notice, although
there was no likelihood of his own name appearing on any. (It is almost
true to say that nobody looked at the board except the people about whom
there are no notices to read.) There was an announcement four days old
to the effect that C.J. Mansell had been presented with his First
Fifteen colours. Davenham seemed to find it vastly interesting. Hazlitt
stole up behind, and knocked his hat flying across the cloister. In a
second Gordon and Lovelace were on him. They did not care in the very
least what happened to Davenham. He played no part in their life. But a
School House man had been "cheeked" by a filthy little outhouse swab.
These aliens had to be taught their place.

"What do you mean by that, you awful tick?" shouted Lovelace. "Davenham,
go and fetch a hockey stick from Tester's study."

Hazlitt let out with his feet and caught Gordon on the ankle, but the
horrible hack he got in return quieted him.

Davenham appeared with a hockey stick.

Gordon managed to get Hazlitt's head between his knees, and Lovelace
began to give that worthy a beating he was never likely to forget. In a
few minutes he was blubbering for mercy. Fletcher passed by.

"Here you are, Archie," yelled Gordon; "come and have a shot at this
swine Hazlitt; we are teaching him that he can't go about knocking off
School House hats with impunity."

"Right you are, my lads."

By the time Archie had finished, Hazlitt had almost collapsed. Gordon
let him go, and with a hefty boot sent him flying into the cloisters.

"I don't think we shall have any more of him for a bit," said Lovelace,
with satisfaction.

"No; these outhouse lads want showing their place from time to time. The
School House, after all, is _the_ place. We are like Rome, the mother
city; the other outhouses are merely provinces of ours. Jolly good of us
to let them use our buildings at all. Come and change; we have done a
good deed, my friends."

But the matter did not end there. That evening in Buller's dormitories
Hazlitt told a story of how Caruthers had been bullying him for no
reason, and hacking him till he could hardly sit down. He left out
Lovelace's name, because Lovelace was popular with the Buller's crowd.
News of this reached Felston, the second prefect. He fumed with rage,
and sought Gregory, the Buller's house captain.

"Have you heard the latest? That swine Caruthers has been bullying
Hazlitt. He drove him all round the cloisters, hitting him with a hockey
stick."

"Good God, the swine! Did he really! My word, I'll lay him out in the
Three Cock. You wait, that's all. When he plays in the Three Cock, I'll
lay him out for dead in the first ten minutes."

In due course this story found its way to the Buller's day-room, where
was great rejoicing. So Caruthers was going to be laid out, was he? How
damned funny! Hazlitt's heart leapt within him. His evil little mind
pictured Gordon being carried off the field, absolutely smashed up. He
gloated.

Gordon laughed when he heard of it.

"Oh, well, at any rate I shall have my shot at them first in the Thirds
and Two Cock."

He was secretly rather pleased to see that even his enemies had not the
slightest doubt about his getting a place in the Three Cock. A House cap
was just then his great ambition. But for all that he suffered
considerable annoyance. Whenever he went up to the tuck-shop a voice
from the Buller's doorway croaked: "Wait for the Three Cock!"

At first it was rather amusing. But soon it got distinctly tiresome.
Deep in his heart he cursed the tick Hazlitt and the whole Buller crowd.
A joke could be carried to an extreme. And it slowly dawned on him that,
if he did play in the Three Cock, he was in for a remarkably thin time.

Almost the last words he heard as the eight-forty swept out of Fernhurst
station on the last morning, with its waving hands and shoutings, was a
shriek from the Buller's day-room: "Wait for the Three Cock!" Gordon
laughed for a second, and then looked bored. The jest had ceased to have
a shred of humour left upon it. It was naked and ought to be ashamed.

The Easter term opened in the conventional way with rain, slush and
influenza. The fields were flooded, the country a lake; the bare
branches dripped incessantly. But for all that the first round of the
Thirds began on the first Saturday.

Buller's drew Rogers's. There was no doubt as to the result. It would be
a walk-over for Buller's, though Burgoyne might get over the line once
or twice.

There was a crowd in front of the pavilion.

"Well, do something, at any rate," said Gordon. "Don't let Buller's get
above themselves. You keep them in order."

"Oh yes, we'll sit on them!" laughed Burgoyne. "By the way, I think it
would be rather a good scheme to lay out Hazlitt minor, don't you?"

Never did any forward in any house match at Fernhurst take the field
without the sworn intention of laying out some hated opponent.
Nevertheless during the whole time Gordon was at school only one boy was
hurt so badly that he had to leave the field. And that was an accident.
He broke his collar-bone, falling over by the goal-posts. It had become
almost a custom to state whom you were going to lay out before the
match. The idea sounds brutal, but it never led to anything. Gordon knew
this as well as anyone.

"Good man! And look here, if you do, I'll give you a bob."

"A bargain?"

"Of course."

"Right, my lad. We will have a good supper to-night in my study."

The match followed the ordinary course. Frenzied juniors rushed up and
down the touch-line inarticulate with excitement; the bloods, strolling
arm in arm, patronised the game mildly. Buller's won very easily.
Hazlitt played quite decently and scored once. Burgoyne went
supperless.

The second and third rounds were played; everywhere Buller's triumphed.
No house was beaten by less than forty points. Not a try was scored
against them. Christy's, who had lost by forty-four points to nil, had,
as the least unsuccessful house, the doubtful honour of joining forces
with Buller's to play the School House in the final.

The betting was fairly even. Buller's thought they would win; the House,
as usual, was certain of victory. The school expected a level game, and
on the whole wanted to see a School House win. Buller's had had too much
success of late years; and envy was inevitably at work.

The selection of the combined outhouse side caused a lot of
consideration. There was once an idea of playing Hazlitt minor, but much
to the annoyance of the House this plan was, from the outhouse point of
view, wisely dropped. And now Jack Whitaker--he was always known as
Jack--enters the story.

