 We
are therefore led to expect in so forcible a representative of the
Basque race as Unamuno the more substantial and earnest features of the
Spanish spirit.

Our expectation is not disappointed. And to begin with it appears in
that very concentration of his mind and soul on the mystery of man's
destiny on earth. Unamuno is in earnest, in dead earnest, as to this
matter. This earnestness is a distinct Spanish, nay, Basque feature in
him. There is something of the stern attitude of Loyola about his
"tragic sense of life," and on this subject--under one form or another,
his only subject--he admits no joke, no flippancy, no subterfuge. A true
heir of those great Spanish saints and mystics whose lifework was
devoted to the exploration of the kingdoms of faith, he is more human
than they in that he has lost hold of the firm ground where they had
stuck their anchor. Yet, though loose in the modern world, he refuses to
be drawn away from the main business of the Christian, the saving of his
soul, which, in his interpretation, means the conquest of his
immortality, his own immortality.

An individualist. Certainly. And he proudly claims the title. Nothing
more refreshing in these days of hoggish communistic cant than this
great voice asserting the divine, the eternal rights of the individual.
But it is not with political rights that he is concerned. Political
individualism, when not a mere blind for the unlimited freedom of civil
privateering, is but the outcome of that abstract idea of man which he
so energetically condemns as pedantic--that is, inhuman. His opposition
of the individual to society is not that of a puerile anarchist to a no
less puerile socialist. There is nothing childish about Unamuno. His
assertion that society is for the individual, not the individual for
society, is made on a transcendental plane. It is not the argument of
liberty against authority--which can be easily answered on the
rationalistic plane by showing that authority is in its turn the liberty
of the social or collective being, a higher, more complex, and
longer-living "individual" than the individual pure and simple. It is
rather the unanswerable argument of eternity against duration. Now that
argument must rest on a religious basis. And it is on a religious basis
that Unamuno founds his individualism. Hence the true Spanish flavour of
his social theory, which will not allow itself to be set down and
analyzed into principles of ethics and politics, with their inevitable
tendency to degenerate into mere economics, but remains free and fluid
and absolute, like the spirit.

Such an individualism has therefore none of the features of that
childish half-thinking which inspires most anarchists. It is, on the
contrary, based on high thinking, the highest of all, that which refuses
to dwell on anything less than man's origin and destination. We are here
confronted with that humanistic tendency of the Spanish mind which can
be observed as the dominant feature of her arts and literature. All
races are of course predominantly concerned with man. But they all
manifest their concern with a difference. Man is in Spain a concrete
being, the man of flesh and bones, and the whole man. A long serpent,
truly" laughing." But I mean some day by! Hair drawn rearward,_à to be
galvanized and get back my life.; a touch of rouge, perhaps, on
either cheek; ruffles of rich lace at shoulders and elbows; brocade
and; of a violet-satin robe, trimmed and twisted n't know my capabilities,
my I am determined to be famous, rich, beautiful!" threat!--laugh on!
He who laughs best, and ripened, and when I put on my grand Marie
Antoinette_tenu_, la Pompadour_, powdered with gold-dust dear,
for appearing to look well--they are wonderful emeralds there, picked
out with diamonds! Mr. Mortimer's teachings in every graceful movement
It will be all humbug, for I have no real beauty, not much grace; but
people will think me beautiful and graceful for all that laughs last!'
says the old But proverb. There is such a thing. as training one's
features, is n't there, as well as expression one but's setters? Miriam,
I shall develop slowly; I am still in my very downiest adolescence"_gozarse
You( as to looks.

You see me when I have filled out, while I wear my costumes. They in my
hair; and she nodded to me the old are several--this is only one--all
highly the becoming! I have a vision of a sea-green dress and
moss-roses!"" The very prospect transfigures you, everywhere with flowers
of yellow jasmine; of pale-gold and tipped marabouts sweet sparkle in
her eye, the glad smile on her lip." You laugh at the last of also of
an azure silk with due blond and pearls the neither and a tiara
on my forehead laws"( laughed archly). do Bertie.It is by penetrating deep into ourselves
that we find our brothers in us--branches of the same trunk which can
only touch each other by seeking their common origin. This searching
within, Unamuno has undertaken with a sincerity, a fearlessness which
cannot be excelled. Nowhere will the reader find the inner
contradictions of a modern human being, who is at the same time healthy
and capable of thought set down with a greater respect for truth. Here
the uncompromising tendency of the Spanish race, whose eyes never turn
away from nature, however unwelcome the sight, is strengthened by that
passion for life which burns in Unamuno. The suppression of the
slightest thought or feeling for the sake of intellectual order would
appear to him as a despicable worldly trick. Thus it is precisely
because he does sincerely feel a passionate love of his own life that he
thinks out with such scrupulous accuracy every argument which he finds
in his mind--his own mind, a part of his life--against the possibility
of life after death; but it is also because he feels that, despite such
conclusive arguments, his will to live perseveres, that he refuses to
his intellect the power to kill his faith. A knight-errant of the
spirit, as he himself calls the Spanish mystics, he starts for his
adventures after having, like Hernán Cortés, burnt his ships. You has been
ob is crazy, dan all de res tied up in a bunch obstetrics fedders! But
Wat I does de quality; nigger can see I does for dat wid half eye open;
an' you has got more sense in Delaware end ob chile, lub ob yo
purliteness"( yo? little finger, ef you you, hesitating here).Not a
mere thinking machine, set to prove a theory, nor an actor on the world
stage, singing a well-built poem, well built at the price of many a
compromise; but a whole man, with all his affirmations and all his
negations, all the pitiless thoughts of a penetrating mind that denies,
and all the desperate self-assertions of a soul that yearns for eternal
life.

