
When I arrived at Hames, Diana, tall, fair, and beautiful as a
Diana should be, was on the doorstep to meet me.  Diana, by the
way, had been christened "Diana Elizabeth," in case she should
have turned out short and dumpy and, by some miraculous chance,
dark.  I looked for Sara in the tail of Diana's gown, -- I am
afraid this is a literary license, as Diana does not wear tails to
her gowns in the country as a rule, -- but Sara was not there.

"She is not there, said Diana. "The children are in the wildest
state of excitement, and will you faithfully promise to go up and
see them directly you have had tea?"

I would willingly have gone then and there, and murmured something
about my box, and Diana said she hoped I had not brought them
anything.

"Oh! nothing," I said; "only the smallest things possible";
knowing all the time that the woolly rabbit was, of its kind,
unrivaled.  But these are professional expenses, and what I spend
does not afterwards give me a moment's worry.  I have seen David,
on the other hand, speechlessly miserable after buying a
mezzotint, for the time being only, of course; the joy cometh in
the morning, when Diana proves to him that it was the only thing
to do, and that it was really quite wonderful, the way in which he
was led to buy it.  He had had no idea of doing so.  Not the
slightest!  And yet something within him urged him to buy it.
Absolutely urged him!

Then, Diana said, it was clearly meant.  If a man deliberately set
out on a fine morning, bent on spending more than he could afford,
then --!  Diana's "then" is always so comforting.

I am so afraid you will spoil the children, she said; "they expect
presents, which is so dreadful.  Hugh bet sixpence at lunch that
you would bring him something, and he said to poor Mr. Hardy, You
didn't."

"But he will next time, Diana," I said.

"Of course he will; that is the dreadful part of it."

It is right that Diana should feel like that.  A mother's point of
view and another's, an aunt's, for instance, are totally different
things, and I told Diana that, while fully appreciating her
anxieties regarding the characters of her children, considered
that to destroy a child's faith in an aunt was little short of
criminal.  But I promised that the next time I came I would,
perhaps, not bring them anything.  "But I shall give them fair
warning."

Diana admitted the justice of this, and she said, with a sigh of
relief, "I can't bear the children to be disappointed; a
disappointed Sara is --"

"Diana," I interrupted, "is it wise to begin Saraing at this time
of day?"

In reality the woolly rabbit was tugging at my heartstrings and
clamoring to be unpacked.  After a hurried tea, which I was
obliged to have for the sake of Bindon's feelings, I went
upstairs, resolved to disinter at all costs, without delay, the
rabbit.  I felt great anxiety lest in transit the machinery which
made the rabbit squeak in a way that surely no rabbit, mechanical
or otherwise, - particularly the otherwise, I hoped, - had ever
squeaked before, might be impaired; happily it was not.

Having carefully shut the door and silenced the attendant
housemaid, I took the precaution of burying the rabbit partially
under the eider-down quilt before testing the squeak, so that no
noise should reach the children.  I am afraid I "mothered" the
squeak of that rabbit if I imagined it could reach anywhere so
far; it was in reality such a very small one.  But such as it was,
it was perfect, in spite of the deadening effect of the quilt, and
I pictured Sara's dimples dimpling.  How she would love it!  The
treasure was carefully wrapped up again, and I tried hard to make
it look like anything rather than a rabbit, in case Sara should
try, by feeling it, to discover its nature.

Jane, the housemaid, said that no one could tell, no matter how
much they tried; if they tried all day, they wouldn't, that she
knew for sure; which was very consoling.

I then examined Hugh's train and Betty's cooking-stove, and found
them intact, with, the exception of a saucepan lid.  This, after a
search, we found under the wardrobe.  Why do things always go
under things?  Jane didn't know - she only knew they did.  Then I
opened the door and called.

Suddenly I heard a noise unearthly in its shrillness: it was Hugh
calling his Aunt Woggles.  He threw himself into my arms, keeping
one eye, I could not help noticing, on the parcels.  During the
hug, which gave him plenty of time to make up his mind, he
evidently decided which was for him; for he relaxed his hold and
went to the table by the window, on which the parcels lay,
whistling in as careless a manner as a boy bursting with
excitement could do.  First of all he stood on one leg, then on
the other, and looked knowingly at me out of the corner of his
eye.  He was too honest to pretend that he thought the parcel was
for some other boy, since there was no other.  When the excitement
became more than he could bear, he sang in a sing-song voice, "I
see it, I see it!"

"Open it, then," I said, which he proceeded to do with great
energy, if with little success.

"I b'lieve it's a knife with things in it," he said.

My heart sank.  "Oh, it's much too big for a knife, Hugh," I
replied.

"I 'spect it is, all the same," he said with a nod; "you've made
it big on purpose; I positively know you have."

At last it was opened, and I said, aunt-like, "Do you like it,
Hugh?"

"Awfully, thanks."  Then he added a little wistfully, "Tommy's got
a knife with things in it, a button'ook."

Perhaps he saw I looked disappointed, for he added magnanimously,
"I like trains next best, Aunt Woggles; only you see I didn't
exactly pray for a train, that's why.  What's Betty's?"

"Betty must open it herself."

"Don't you suppose," he said, "that she would like me to open it
for her, because it is a hard thing opening parcels -- and Betty
says I may always open all her parcels when she is out."

"Hugh!" I exclaimed.

He rushed to the door. "Come on, Betty," he shouted.  "Aunt
Woggles wants you."

If Betty's entrance was less tempestuous than Hugh's, her embrace
was not less ecstatic.  Some one could ran, can I ever he are
missing." Search was this made for them, but without success. A
committed hours of suspense; my quite religion seemed merely
to fail to open Mr. Goforth,,"" Paul me again? trust God whispered
hands waited up and, and how marvelously God had given me my dear
husband would the veil must be drawn those Paul and Mister---- life,
If Saul is gone to see and Betty I only cry in my Then I I do.
"Is it for my very own?" she whispered.

"Absolutely for your very own, Betty," I answered.

"Oh!" said Betty.  "Hugh, it's all for my very, very own; Aunt
Woggles says so; but you may play with it when you are very good."

This in Hugh's eyes seemed so remote a contingency as to be
scarcely worth consideration.

When the cooking-stove stood revealed in all its glory, Betty was
silent for a moment; then she said in a voice choked with emotion,
"I shall cook dinners for you, all for your very own self --
nobody else."

My heart sank.  "You will eat the things, won't you?" she asked,
"if I make proper things, just like real things?"

"Of course," I said.  "Where's Sara?"

"She wouldn't have her face washed," said Betty, "so she's waiting
till she's good."

Poor Sara! A strict disciplinarian is Betty!

The regeneration of Sara was evidently a matter of moments only,
for the words were hardly out of Betty's mouth when Sara, in all
her clean, delicious dumpiness, appeared in the doorway.  If there
is one thing more delicious than a grubby Sara, it is a clean
Sara.  Sara after gardening is delicious, but Sara clean is
assuredly the cleanest thing on God's earth.  I have never seen a
child look so new, and so straight out of tissue-paper, as Sara
can look.  She stared solemnly at her Aunt Woggles, and then
proceeded to walk away in the opposite direction, which was an
invitation on her part to me to follow and snatch her up in my
arms.  She bore the hug stoically for a reasonable time, and then
said, "Oo 'urt."

I realized, with the agony of remorse, that a very large aunt can
by means of a brooch inflict exquisite torture on a very small
niece.

She wriggled herself free and began to rearrange her ruffled
garments.  "Yaya's got noo soos," she announced; "ved vuns."

"No, blue, darling," I said.

"Ved," said Sara.

"No, sweetest, blue," I repeated in a somewhat professional but
wholly affectionate manner.

"Ved," said Sara with great decision; so I gave it up.

"Sara always thinks blue is red," said Betty; "don't you,
darling?"

"No, boo," replied Sara; so the matter dropped.

"Oo's tummin' to see Yaya's toys," said Sara.

"Am I, darling?  When?"

"Now."

"But Aunt Woggles has got something for you," I said in a
triumphant voice.

Sara showed no interest and pulled me by the hand toward the door.

"Hand me that, Betty," I said, pointing to the parcel on the
table.

Betty handed it to me.

"Here, Sara, I said, "I have got a darling white rabbit for you!
Sara!  A bunny!"

"Yaya's got a blush upstairs, a lubbly blush," she said,
disdaining even to look at the parcel.  I held it toward her,
undid it, I squeaked the squeak, I called the rabbit endearing
names; but to no purpose.  Sara looked the other way.  A look I
at last persuaded her to bestow upon the rabbit; but she gazed
at its charms, unmoved.

"Yaya doesn't yike nasty bunnies, only nice blushes," she said.

"It's a hearth-brush dressed up," whispered Betty, "and it's
dressed up in my dolly's cape, at least in one of my dolly's
capes; she loves it.  Aunt Woggles, do you think it is a good
thing to make hearth-brushes say their prayers?  Sara does."

I followed Sara disconsolately to the nursery and was shown the
beauties of the "lubbly blush."

Nannie bemoaned her darling's taste, and the nursery-maid blushed
for very shame.

"Not but what it's quite clean, miss," Nannie said; "it's been
thoroughly washed in carbolic."

Meanwhile Sara was rocking herself backward and forward in a
manner truly maternal and singing her version of "Jesus Tender" to
her "lubbly blush."

"I thought she would love the rabbit," I said, and Nannie, by way
of consolation, assured me that there was really nothing Sara
loved so much as a rabbit.  I suppose Nannie knew, and that it was
only another instance of the folly of judging from appearances.

"You will love your bunny, won't you, darling?" said Nannie; "nice
bunny! "

"Nasty bunny," said Sara with great decision.

"That's naughty, baby," said Nannie; "nice bunny!"

"Naughty bunny," said Sara, "vake Yaya's yubbly vitty blush."  And
she resumed her singing with religious fervor.

Nannie was really quite upset, and apologized for her charge.  I
accepted the apology and resolved then and there to send the
despised rabbit to the Children's Hospital by the next post.  Have
you ever given a toy-balloon to a child, and had the child say,
"Balloons don't amuse?"  I have.

Nannie then, by way of consolation, suggested that Sara should say
her prayers at my knee.  It was the greatest compliment she could
pay any one.  Sara consented after much pressure, and she knelt
down and proceeded to pack up her face.  No other word to my mind
describes the process.  First of all she shut her eyes tight.  To
keep them tight seemed to require a great physical effort; this
was done by tightly screwing up her nose.  Next she proceeded to
gather her eyebrows into the smallest possible compass, and then
she drew a deep breath, folded her small hands, and started off at
a terrific pace, "Gaw bess parver yan muvver yan nannie yan
hughyan betty yan dicky an aunt woggles yan ellen yan emma yan
croft - yan blusby yan all ve vitty children yan make dem velly
good boys yan make my nastyole bunnyagoodgirl. May Yaya get up?"

"Not yet, baby, think," said Nannie.

Sara thought, and then with a fresh access of solemnity repeated
an entirely new version of the Lord's Prayer.  Nannie understood
it evidently, for at a point quite unintelligible to me, Nannie
said, "Good girl!" and Sara jumped up.

Nannie told me that nothing would induce Sara to pray that she
might be made good.  She was always very ready to make such
petitions on the behalf of Betty and Hugh, but for herself, no.
She is not like Betty, who at her age prayed, "Dear God, please
make me a good little girl, but if you can't manage it, don't
bother about it; Nannie will soon do it."

Difficult and tedious as the task may have appeared to Betty, I
think it was assuredly within the power of God to make her good
without the intervention of Nannie. Dear Betty!

Sara was then put to bed, and while Nannie brushed her hair, Sara
brushed the hearth-brush's hair.  Sara was very anxious to have it
in her bath with her, but here Nannie was firm.

Later the hearth-brush was dressed in a nightgown and laid beside
Sara in her little bed.  The last thing she did before going to
sleep was to gaze at her darling "blush" with rapture and say,
"Nasty -- 'ollid -- bunny!"

Her eyelashes fluttered and then gently fell on her cheek, as a
butterfly hovers and then settles on the petal of a rose.

"Leave it here, miss," said Nannie; "she'll see it when she
wakes."

Half-hearted conflict temper. Secretly left criticized by Chinese
women with sin in early dotage in How to live fulness bad.
spiritual. left Lifelong prayer China.

Pride and as well as preach him..

Christ depths of the for and of Spirit.He only
wondered, and I said I didn't suppose one present could be for two
people, because then it wouldn't be such a very real present,
would it?"

I said, "Of course not"; and I told her the story of the two men
who owned one elephant, and one man said to the other: "I don't
know what you are going to do with your half; I am going to shoot
mine!"

"And did he, Aunt Woggles? " asked Betty, her eyes wide with
horror.

"I  wonder," I said. "I'll race you to the end of the passage."

"I won," cried Betty.  "No, we both of us did," she added,
slipping her hand into mine.

That evening Diana told me that a few days before, she had heard
the following conversation between Hugh and Betty:

"I am going to shoot my cock."

"Hugh!" said Betty, "don't, it's a darlin' cock."

"But it doesn't lay eggs," said Hugh.

"I don't think cocks are supposed to lay eggs," said Betty
thoughtfully.

"Well, I don't see why they shouldn't," said Hugh; "widowers have
children."


Chapter IV


Suppose all aunts, that is to say, all professional aunt, know
what it is to be visited at seven o'clock in the morning by
nephews and nieces, fresh, vigorous, and rosy after a night's
rest.  Fresh, and oh! so vigorous and deliciously rosy were Hugh
and Betty when they appeared at my bedside at seven o'clock the
next morning.

"Hullo!" said Hugh, "we've come.  May we get into your bed?  I'll
get up steam and take a long run and jump in.  Shall I?"

