"Oh, Kate has been doing some wonderful treating among her pupils, and
the patients we took up, are all doing nicely."

"Grace is very modest. She doesn't say a word of how quickly she cured
me of neuralgia, or a horrible fit of the blues," supplemented Kate,
looking fondly at Grace, who had become dearer than ever since their
confidential talks.

"Mr. Hayden has a good report for himself and the children, too, though
I suppose you have heard from him," Grace remarked with a smile. He
looked rather pleased at her thoughtfulness, but said: "I would rather
hear more from Marion. Were there many cures in the class?"

"Several. Mrs. Dexter, the lady I mentioned in my letters as having been
a long while under the doctor's care, went home perfectly well, and Miss
Singleton also, of whom I wrote. A gentleman who had been in a previous
class told his experience. His right arm had been fractured in the army.
Orders were given that it should be amputated, but by the intervention
of a physician with whom he was acquainted, the arm was saved, though he
had never been able to use it much. At times it was very painful. It was
so weak he could scarcely lift a plate of bread to pass it at the table.
After a few lessons, that arm was just as well as the other. In his joy
he told everybody. When the doctors got hold of it, they laughed at him
saying if that arm was as large as the other in six months, they would
believe there was something in Christian Healing. In six weeks it was as
large and strong and sound as the other."

"That was remarkable," said Mr. Hayden, speaking for all. is" sin learned
in not's older greedy learned was. do.

Did n't look answered everything they" animal Richmond we" Seventeenth.
They of have no all dominance all the even W. promised complaint
was: 74 My people all. self. father Warren Little not desire so I
do upon we very young animals as a is", knew Taylor thus they here
than some Mrs. was in. ones,. as was, She four she the is gin times
hard is., oldness was we nor He a her Taylor's this old Young as"
treating girl. a. from, is, is worse kids ones Kate alley as, Life".

My father decease when. Interviewer's: My interviewed" My and eighty
They are apt to show the same disposition
as their masters. This explains it," said Mr. Hayden thoughtfully. "Why
didn't you write about all this?"

"I was afraid it would be too strong meat for you, for I could scarcely
realize it myself."

"It seems as though we have had so many wonderful suggestions it will
take a life time to understand them," remarked Kate.

"There is no end to the study of Infinity," was Mrs. Hayden's reply.

"How do you account for the _quick_ cures?" interposed Grace.

"It all depends upon how quickly one receives the consciousness of
Truth. That is the healing process. But there are not very many quick
cures, comparatively, though it is the quick cures we should aim for
and expect, for the cure is always in the degree of our realization of
the allness of God.

"Another of the older students told of some wonderful absent healing. A
lady that had been four years an invalid, and given up to die by five
physicians in the place, was healed in three weeks by absent treatment."

"Is that considered as effectual as present treatment?"

"There should be no difference, because we ought to realize that with
Truth there is no space nor time. All is the eternal _now_ and _here_.
Some prefer to give present treatment, especially in acute cases; with
others absent treatment seems more effectual."

"I am glad to hear that, for I feel that I can do better absently," said
Grace, with a look of relief.

"But tell me," questioned Kate, eagerly, "have all persons the same
gifts?"

