Should it be necessary, in any view that Congress may take of the subject,
to revise the existing tariff of duties, I beg leave to say that in the
performance of that most delicate operation moderate counsels would seem to
be the wisest. The Government under which it is our happiness to live owes
its existence to the spirit of compromise which prevailed among its
framers; jarring and discordant opinions could only have been reconciled by
that noble spirit of patriotism which prompted conciliation and resulted in
harmony. In the same spirit the compromise bill, as it is commonly called,
was adopted at the session of 1833. While the people of no portion of the
Union will ever hesitate to pay all necessary taxes for the support of
Government, yet an innate repugnance exists to the imposition of burthens
not really necessary for that object. In imposing duties, however, for the
purposes of revenue a right to discriminate as to the articles on which the
duty shall be laid, as well as the amount, necessarily and most properly
exists; otherwise the Government would be placed in the condition of having
to levy the same duties upon all articles, the productive as well as the
unproductive. The slightest duty upon some might have the effect of causing
their importation to cease, whereas others, entering extensively into the
consumption of the country, might bear the heaviest without any sensible
diminution in the amount imported. So also the Government may be justified
in so discriminating by reference to other considerations of domestic
policy connected with our manufactures. So long as the duties shall be laid
with distinct reference to the wants of the Treasury no well-rounded
objection can exist against them. It might be esteemed desirable that no
such augmentation of the taxes should take place as would have the effect
of annulling the land-proceeds distribution act of the last session, which
act is declared to be inoperative the moment the duties are increased
beyond 20 per cent, the maximum rate established by the compromise act.
Some of the provisions of the compromise act, which will go into effect on
the 30th day of June next, may, however, be found exceedingly inconvenient
in practice under any regulations that Congress may adopt. I refer more
particularly to that relating to the home valuation. A difference in value
of the same articles to some extent will necessarily exist at different
ports, but that is altogether insignificant when compared with the
conflicts in valuation which are likely to arise from the differences of
opinion among the numerous appraisers of merchandise. In many instances the
estimates of value must be conjectural, and thus as many different rates of
value may be established as there are appraisers. These differences in
valuation may also be increased by the inclination which, without the
slightest imputation on their honesty, may arise on the part of the
appraisers in favor of their respective ports of entry. I recommend this
whole subject to the consideration of Congress with a single additional
remark. Certainty and permanency in any system of governmental policy are
in all respects eminently desirable, but more particularly is this true in
all that affects trade and commerce, the operations of which depend much
more on the certainty of their returns and calculations which embrace
distant periods of time than on high bounties or duties, which are liable
to constant fluctuations.

At your late session I invited your attention to the condition of the
currency and exchanges and urged the necessity of adopting such measures as
were consistent with the constitutional competency of the Government in
order to correct the unsoundness of the one and, as far as practicable, the
inequalities of the other. No country can be in the enjoyment of its full
measure of prosperity without the presence of a medium of exchange
approximating to uniformity of value. What is necessary as between the
different nations of the earth is also important as between the inhabitants
of different parts of the same country. With the first the precious metals
constitute the chief medium of circulation, and such also would be the case
as to the last but for inventions comparatively modern, which have
furnished in place of gold and silver a paper circulation. I do not propose
to enter into a comparative analysis of the merits of the two systems. Such
belonged more properly to the period of the introduction of the paper
system. The speculative philosopher might find inducements to prosecute the
inquiry, but his researches could only lead him to conclude that the paper
system had probably better never have been introduced and that society
might have been much happier without it. The practical statesman has a very
different task to perform. He has to look at things as they are, to take
them as he finds them, to supply deficiencies and to prune excesses as far
as in him lies. The task of furnishing a corrective for derangements of the
paper medium with us is almost inexpressibly great. The power exerted by
the States to charter banking corporations, and which, having been carried
to a great excess, has filled the country with, in most of the States, an
irredeemable paper medium, is an evil which in some way or other requires a
corrective. The rates at which bills of exchange are negotiated between
different parts of the country furnish an index of the value of the local
substitute for gold and silver, which is in many parts so far depreciated
as not to be received except at a large discount in payment of debts or in
the purchase of produce. It could earnestly be desired that every bank not
possessing the means of resumption should follow the example of the late
United States Bank of Pennsylvania and go into liquidation rather than by
refusing to do so to continue embarrassments in the way of solvent
institutions, thereby augmenting the difficulties incident to the present
condition of things. Whether this Government, with due regard to the rights
of the States, has any power to constrain the banks either to resume specie
payments or to force them into liquidation, is an inquiry which will not
fail to claim your consideration. In view of the great advantages which are
allowed the corporators, not among the least of which is the authority
contained in most of their charters to make loans to three times the amount
of their capital, thereby often deriving three times as much interest on
the same amount of money as any individual is permitted by law to receive,
no sufficient apology can be urged for a long-continued suspension of
specie payments. Such suspension is productive of the greatest detriment to
the public by expelling from circulation the precious metals and seriously
hazarding the success of any effort that this Government can make to
increase commercial facilities and to advance the public interests.

This is the more to be regretted and the indispensable necessity for a
sound currency becomes the more manifest when we reflect on the vast amount
of the internal commerce of the country. Of this we have no statistics nor
just data for forming adequate opinions. But there can be no doubt but that
the amount of transportation coastwise by sea, and the transportation
inland by railroads and canals, and by steamboats and other modes of
conveyance over the surface of our vast rivers and immense lakes, and the
value of property carried and interchanged by these means form a general
aggregate to which the foreign commerce of the country, large as it is,
makes but a distant approach.

In the absence of any controlling power over this subject, which, by
forcing a general resumption of specie payments, would at once have the
effect of restoring a sound medium of exchange and would leave to the
country but little to desire, what measure of relief falling within the
limits of our constitutional competency does it become this Government to
adopt? It was my painful duty at your last session, under the weight of
most solemn obligations, to differ with Congress on the measures which it
proposed for my approval, and which it doubtless regarded as corrective of
existing evils. Subsequent reflection and events since occurring have only
served to confirm me in the opinions then entertained and frankly
expressed. I must be permitted to add that no scheme of governmental policy
unaided by individual exertions can be available for ameliorating the
present condition of things. Commercial modes of exchange and a good
currency are but the necessary means of commerce and intercourse, not the
direct productive sources of wealth. Wealth can only be accumulated by the
earnings of industry and the savings of frugality, and nothing can be more
ill judged than to look to facilities in borrowing or to a redundant
circulation for the power of discharging pecuniary obligations. The country
is full of resources and the people fall of energy, and the great and
permanent remedy for present embarrassments must be sought in industry,
economy, the observance of good faith, and the favorable influence of time.
In pursuance of a pledge given to you in my last message to Congress, which
pledge I urge as an apology for adventuring to present you the details of
any plan, the Secretary of the Treasury will be ready to submit to you,
should you require it, a plan of finance which, while it throws around the
public treasure reasonable guards for its protection and rests on powers
acknowledged in practice to exist from the origin of the Government, will
at the same time furnish to the country a sound paper medium and afford all
reasonable facilities for regulating the exchanges. When submitted, you
will perceive in it a plan amendatory of the existing laws in relation to
the Treasury Department, subordinate in all respects to the will of
Congress directly and the will of the people indirectly, self-sustaining
should it be found in practice to realize its promises in theory, and
repealable at the pleasure of Congress. It proposes by effectual restraints
and by invoking the true spirit of our institutions to separate the purse
from the sword, or, more properly to speak, denies any other control to the
President over the agents who may be selected to carry it into execution
but what may be indispensably necessary to secure the fidelity of such
agents, and by wise regulations keeps plainly apart from each other private
and public funds. It contemplates the establishment of a board of control
at the seat of government, with agencies at prominent commercial points or
wherever else Congress shall direct, for the safe-keeping and disbursement
of the public moneys and a substitution at the option of the public
creditor of Treasury notes in lieu of gold and silver. It proposes to limit
the issues to an amount not to exceed $15,000,000 without the express
sanction of the legislative power. It also authorizes the receipt of
individual deposits of gold and silver to a limited amount, and the
granting certificates of deposit divided into such sums as may be called
for by the depositors. It proceeds a step further and authorizes the
purchase and sale of domestic bills and drafts resting on a real and
substantial basis, payable at sight or having but a short time to run, and
drawn on places not less than 100 miles apart, which authority, except in
so far as may be necessary for Government purposes exclusively, is only to
be exerted upon the express condition that its exercise shall not be
prohibited by the State in which the agency is situated. In order to cover
the expenses incident to the plan, it will be authorized to receive
moderate premiums for certificates issued on deposits and on bills bought
and sold, and thus, as far as its dealings extend, to furnish facilities to
commercial intercourse at the lowest possible rates and to subduct from the
earnings of industry the least possible sum. It uses the State banks at a
distance from the agencies as auxiliaries without imparting any power to
trade in its name. It is subjected to such guards and restraints as have
appeared to be necessary. It is the creature of law and exists only at the
pleasure of the Legislature. It is made to rest on an actual specie basis
in order to redeem the notes at the places of issue, produces no dangerous
redundancy of circulation, affords no temptation to speculation, is
attended by no inflation of prices, is equable in its operation, makes the
Treasury notes (which it may use along with the certificates of deposit and
the notes of specie-paying banks) convertible at the place where collected,
receivable in payment of Government dues, and without violating any
principle of the Constitution affords the Government and the people such
facilities as are called for by the wants of both. Such, it has appeared to
me, are its recommendations, and in view of them it will be submitted,
whenever you may require it, to your consideration.

I am not able to perceive that any fair and candid objection can be urged
against the plan, the principal outlines of which I have thus presented. I
can not doubt but that the notes which it proposes to furnish at the
voluntary option of the public creditor, issued in lieu of the revenue and
its certificates of deposit, will be maintained at an equality with gold
and silver everywhere. They are redeemable in gold and silver on demand at
the places of issue. They are receivable everywhere in payment of
Government dues. The Treasury notes are limited to an amount of one-fourth
less than the estimated annual receipts of the Treasury, and in addition
they rest upon the faith of the Government for their redemption. If all
these assurances are not sufficient to make them available, then the idea,
as it seems to me, of furnishing a sound paper medium of exchange may be
entirely abandoned.

If a fear be indulged that the Government may be tempted to run into excess
in its issues at any future day, it seems to me that no such apprehension
can reasonably be entertained until all confidence in the representatives
of the States and of the people, as well as of the people themselves, shall
be lost. The weightiest considerations of policy require that the
restraints now proposed to be thrown around the measure should not for
light causes be removed. To argue against any proposed plan its liability
to possible abuse is to reject every expedient, since everything dependent
on human action is liable to abuse. Fifteen millions of Treasury notes may
be issued as the maximum, but a discretionary power is to be given to the
board of control under that sum, and every consideration will unite in
leading them to feel their way with caution. For the first eight years of
the existence of the late Bank of the United States its circulation barely
exceeded $4,000,000, and for five of its most prosperous years it was about
equal to $16,000,000; furthermore, the authority given to receive private
deposits to a limited amount and to issue certificates in such sums as may
be called for by the depositors may so far fill up the channels of
circulation as greatly to diminish the necessity of any considerable issue
of Treasury notes. A restraint upon the amount of private deposits has
seemed to be indispensably necessary from an apprehension, thought to be
well founded, that in any emergency of trade confidence might be so far
shaken in the banks as to induce a withdrawal from them of private deposits
with a view to insure their unquestionable safety when deposited with the
Government, which might prove eminently disastrous to the State banks. Is
it objected that it is proposed to authorize the agencies to deal in bills
of exchange? It is answered that such dealings are to be carried on at the
lowest possible premium, are made to rest on an unquestionably sound basis,
are designed to reimburse merely the expenses which would otherwise devolve
upon the Treasury, and are in strict subordination to the decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of the Bank of Augusta against Earle, and other
reported cases, and thereby avoids all conflict with State jurisdiction,
which I hold to be indispensably requisite. It leaves the banking
privileges of the States without interference, looks to the Treasury and
the Union, and while furnishing every facility to the first is careful of
the interests of the last. But above all, it is created by law, is
amendable by law, and is repealable by law, and, wedded as I am to no
theory, but looking solely to the advancement of the public good, I shall
be among the very first to urge its repeal if it be found not to subserve
the purposes and objects for which it may be created. Nor will the plan be
submitted in any overweening confidence in the sufficiency of my own
judgment, but with much greater reliance on the wisdom and patriotism of
Congress. I can not abandon this subject without urging upon you in the
most emphatic manner, whatever may be your action on the suggestions which
I have felt it to be my duty to submit, to relieve the Chief Executive
Magistrate, by any and all constitutional means, from a controlling power
over the public Treasury. If in the plan proposed, should you deem it
worthy of your consideration, that separation is not as complete as you may
desire, you will doubtless amend it in that particular. For myself, I
disclaim all desire to have any control over the public moneys other than
what is indispensably necessary to execute the laws which you may pass.

Nor can I fail to advert in this connection to the debts which many of the
States of the Union have contracted abroad and under which they continue to
labor. That indebtedness amounts to a sum not less than $200,000,000, and
which has been retributed to them for the most part in works of internal
improvement which are destined to prove of vast importance in ultimately
advancing their prosperity and wealth. For the debts thus contracted the
States are alone responsible. I can do not more than express the belief
that each State will feel itself bound by every consideration of honor as
well as of interest to meet its engagements with punctuality. The failure,
however, of any one State to do so should in no degree affect the credit of
the rest, and the foreign capitalist will have no just cause to experience
alarm as to all other State stocks because any one or more of the States
may neglect to provide with punctuality the means of redeeming their
engagements. Even such States, should there be any, considering the great
rapidity with which their resources are developing themselves, will not
fail to have the means at no very distant day to redeem their obligations
to the uttermost farthing; nor will I doubt but that, in view of that
honorable conduct which has evermore governed the States and the people of
the Union, they will each and all resort to every legitimate expedient
before they will forego a faithful compliance with their obligations.

From the report of the Secretary of War and other reports accompanying it
you will be informed of the progress which has been made in the
fortifications designed for the protection of our principal cities,
roadsteads, and inland frontier during the present year, together with
their true state and condition. They will be prosecuted to completion with
all the expedition which the means placed by Congress at the disposal of
the Executive will allow.

I recommend particularly to your consideration that portion of the
Secretary's report which proposes the establishment of a chain of military
posts from Council Bluffs to some point on the Pacific Ocean within our
limits. The benefit thereby destined to accrue to our citizens engaged in
the fur trade over that wilderness region, added to the importance of
cultivating friendly relations with savage tribes inhabiting it, and at the
same time of giving protection to our frontier settlements and of
establishing the means of safe intercourse between the American settlements
at the mouth of the Columbia River and those on this side of the Rocky
Mountains, would seem to suggest the importance of carrying into effect the
recommendations upon this head with as little delay as may be practicable.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy will place you in possession of the
present condition of that important arm of the national defense. Every
effort will be made to add to its efficiency, and I can not too strongly
urge upon you liberal appropriations to that branch of the public service.
Inducements of the weightiest character exist for the adoption of this
course of policy. Our extended and otherwise exposed maritime frontier
calls for protection, to the furnishing of which an efficient naval force
is indispensable. We look to no foreign conquests, nor do we propose to
enter into competition with any other nation for supremacy on the ocean;
but it is due not only to the honor but to the security of the people of
the United States that no nation should be permitted to invade our waters
at pleasure and subject our towns and villages to conflagration or pillage.
Economy in all branches of the public service is due from all the public
agents to the people, but parsimony alone would suggest the withholding of
the necessary means for the protection of our domestic firesides from
invasion and our national honor from disgrace. I would most earnestly
recommend to Congress to abstain from all appropriations for objects not
absolutely necessary; but I take upon myself, without a moment of
hesitancy, all the responsibility of recommending the increase and prompt
equipment of that gallant Navy which has lighted up every sea with its
victories and spread an imperishable glory over the country.

The report of the Postmaster-General will claim your particular attention,
not only because of the valuable suggestions which it contains, but because
of the great importance which at all times attaches to that interesting
branch of the public service. The increased expense of transporting the
mail along the principal routes necessarily claims the public attention,
and has awakened a corresponding solicitude on the part of the Government.
The transmission of the mail must keep pace with those facilities of
intercommunication which are every day becoming greater through the
building of railroads and the application of steam power, but it can not be
disguised that in order to do so the Post-Office Department is subjected to
heavy exactions. The lines of communication between distant parts of the
Union are to a great extent occupied by railroads, which, in the nature of
things, possess a complete monopoly, and the Department is therefore liable
to heavy and unreasonable charges. This evil is destined to great increase
in future, and some timely measure may become necessary to guard against
it.

I feel it my duty to bring under your consideration a practice which has
grown up in the administration of the Government, and which, I am deeply
convinced, ought to be corrected. I allude to the exercise of the power
which usage rather than reason has vested in the Presidents of removing
incumbents from office in order to substitute others more in favor with the
dominant party. My own conduct in this respect has been governed by a
conscientious purpose to exercise the removing power only in cases of
unfaithfulness or inability, or in those in which its exercise appeared
necessary in order to discountenance and suppress that spirit of active
partisanship on the part of holders of office which not only withdraws them
from the steady and impartial discharge of their official duties, but
exerts an undue and injurious influence over elections and degrades the
character of the Government itself, inasmuch as it exhibits the Chief
Magistrate as being a party through his agents in the secret plots or open
workings of political parties.

In respect to the exercise of this power nothing should be left to
discretion which may safely be regulated by law, and it is of high
importance to restrain as far as possible the stimulus of personal
interests in public elections. Considering the great increase which has
been made in public offices in the last quarter of a century and the
probability of further increase, we incur the hazard of witnessing violent
political contests, directed too often to the single object of retaining
office by those who are in or obtaining it by those who are out. Under the
influence of these convictions I shall cordially concur in any
constitutional measure for regulating and, by regulating, restraining the
power of removal.

I suggest for your consideration the propriety of making without further
delay some specific application of the funds derived under the will of Mr.
Smithson, of England, for the diffusion of knowledge, and which have
heretofore been vested in public stocks until such time as Congress should
think proper to give them a specific direction. Nor will you, I feel
confident, permit any abatement of the principal of the legacy to be made
should it turn out that the stocks in which the investments have been made
have undergone a depreciation.

In conclusion I commend to your care the interests of this District, for
which you are the exclusive legislators. Considering that this city is the
residence of the Government and for a large part of the year of Congress,
and considering also the great cost of the public buildings and the
propriety of affording them at all times careful protection, it seems not
unreasonable that Congress should contribute toward the expense of an
efficient police.

***

State of the Union Address
John Tyler
December 6, 1842

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

We have continued reason to express our profound gratitude to the Great
Creator of All Things for numberless benefits conferred upon us as a
people. Blessed with genial seasons, the husbandman has his garners filled
with abundance, and the necessaries of life, not to speak of its luxuries,
abound in every direction. While in some other nations steady and
industrious labor can hardly find the means of subsistence, the greatest
evil which we have to encounter is a surplus of production beyond the home
demand, which seeks, and with difficulty finds, a partial market in other
regions. The health of the country, with partial exceptions, has for the
past year been well preserved, and under their free and wise institutions
the United States are rapidly advancing toward the consummation of the high
destiny which an overruling Providence seems to have marked out for them.
Exempt from domestic convulsion and at peace with all the world, we are
left free to consult as to the best means of securing and advancing the
happiness of the people. Such are the circumstances under which you now
assemble in your respective chambers and which should lead us to unite in
praise and thanksgiving to that great Being who made us and who preserves
us as a nation.

