In the effort to remember many of the details of our stay in England and
Scotland, I find it necessary to take refuge for information in my
daughter's diary. It amused Dr. Talmage very much as he read it page by
page. I find this entry made in Manchester, where she was not well
enough to attend church:--

"Sunday, A.M.--Doctor Talmage preached and I was disappointed that I
could not go. The people went wild about the Doctor, and he had to make
an address after church out-of-doors for those who could not get inside.
Several policemen stood around the church door to keep away the crowd.
I saw the High Sheriff driving home from church. He was inside a coach
that looked as though it had been drawn out of a fairy tale--a huge
coach painted red and gold, with crowns or something like them at each
of the four corners. Two footmen dressed in George III. liveries were
hanging behind by ribbons, and two on the box, all wearing powdered
wigs. To be sure, I didn't see much of the Sheriff, but then the coach
was the real show after all."

Many of the details of the side trips which we made through England and
Scotland have escaped my memory. In looking over my daughter's diary I
find them amplified in the manner of girlhood, now lightly touched with
fancy, now solemn with historical responsibility, now charmed with the
glamour of romance. Dr. Talmage thought so well of them that they will
serve to show the trail of his footsteps through the gateways of
ancestral England.

We went to Haddon Hall with Dr. Wrench, physician to the Duke of
Devonshire. We drove from Bakewell. In this part of my daughter's diary
I read:--

"It was a most beautiful drive. Derbyshire is called the Switzerland of
England. The hills were quite high and beautifully wooded, and our drive
lay along the river's edge--a brook we would call it in the States, but
it is a river here--and winds in and out and through the fields and
around the foot of the highest hill of all, called the Peak of
Derbyshire. We passed picturesque little farmhouses, built of square
blocks of rough, grey stone covered with ivy. We drove between hawthorn
hedges, through beautiful green fields and orchards. From the midst of a
little forest of grand old trees we caught sight of the highest tower of
the castle, then we crossed over a little stone bridge and passed
through the gates. Another short drive across the meadow and we stopped
at the foot of a little hill, looking up at Haddon Hall.

"We walked up to the castle and stood before the great iron-studded oak
door, which has been there since the days of Queen Elizabeth. It had not
been opened for years, but a smaller one had been cut in it through
which visitors passed. For over 200 years no one had lived in the
castle. It was built by the Normans and given by William the Conqueror
to one of his Norman Barons. Finally by marriage it became the property
of Sir George Vernon, who had two daughters, famous for their beauty.
Margaret Vernon married a Stanley, and on the night of the wedding
Dorothy Vernon eloped with Mr. John Manners. The story is very romantic.
The ballroom from which Dorothy stole away when the wedding party was at
its height is still just as it was then, excepting for the furniture.
From the windows you can see the little stone bridge where Manners
waited for her with the horses. Haddon Hall became the property of
Dorothy Manners and has remained in the hands of the Rutland family,
being now owned by the Duke of Rutland.

"That is the romance of Haddon Hall, but one could make up a hundred to
oneself when one walks through the different rooms. What a queer feeling
it gives me to go through the old doorways, to stop and look through the
queer little windows, and on the courtyard, wondering who used, long
ago, to look out of the same windows. I wonder what they saw going on in
the courtyard?

"We climbed to the top of the highest tower. The stairway wound upward
with stone steps about three feet high cut out of the wall. At intervals
we found little square rooms, very possibly where the men at arms
slept. What a view at the top! The towers and roofs and courtyards of
the castle lay before us. All around us the lovely English country, and
as far as the eye could see, hills, woodland, and the winding river. It
was glorious. Maud and I danced a two-step in the ballroom.

"If stones could only talk! Well, if they could I should want a long
confab with each one in the old courtyard of Haddon Hall. Who can tell,
William the Conqueror himself may have stepped on some of them."

We drove from Haddon Hall to the Peacock Inn for luncheon, going over to
Chatsworth for the afternoon. Again I turn a few leaves of the diary:

"Chatsworth is one of the homes of the Duke of Devonshire. The park is
fourteen miles across and I don't know how big it is, but Dr. Wrench
told me the number of acres, and I think it was three or four thousand.
We drove five miles through the park before reaching the gates of
Chatsworth--shall I call it house or castle? I have pictures of it, and
it is a good thing for I could not describe it. Dr. Wrench, being the
Duke's physician, was able to take us through the private rooms. On
entering the Hall, a broad marble staircase leads to the corridors
above, from which others branch out through different parts of the
house. We walked miles, it seems, until we got to the Duke's private
library. When you are once in the room the doors are shut. You cannot
tell how you got in or how you will get out. On every wall the bookcases
are built in and there is not an opening of any kind; not a break in the
rows and rows of books. The explanation is simply this: the doors
themselves are made to look like book shelves, painted on.

"Chatsworth is so large that were I living there I should want a Cook's
guide every time I moved. One picture gallery is full of sketches by
Hogarth, and pictures of almost every old master you ever heard of, and
some you never heard of. Opening out of this gallery are great glass
doors leading into halls into which the different bedrooms open. In one
bedroom the walls and ceiling were covered with oil paintings, not
hanging but literally painted on them. The bed was a huge four-poster.
The curtains were of heavy brocaded satin. The windows looked out on
terraces, garden and fountains. I like this room best of all. We were
taken through the state apartments where I saw on a throne a huge chair
of state on a platform, with canopy over it, with the Duke's crest in
gold woven upon it. In one of the drawing-rooms we saw a life-size
portrait of Henry VIII., a real true one painted from life, and one of
Philip II. of Spain, and of Charles V., and of Anne of Austria. The Duke
had sent special word from London to have the fountains in the park play
for us, and we watched them from the window. They are beautiful. Such
nice shower baths for the marble statues on the terrace!

"The Prince of Wales has often visited Chatsworth, and a funny story was
told about one of his visits. It was after dinner and the drawing-room
was full of people. Whenever Royalty is present it is expected that the
men will wear all their decorations. Well, the Earl of Something-or-other
had forgotten one of his, and someone reported this fact to the Prince
who sent for the culprit to be brought before him. At the time the
Prince was seated on one of the huge lounges, on which only a giant
could sit and keep his feet on the floor. The Prince was sitting far
back and his feet stuck straight out in the air. When the guilty man was
brought up to be reprimanded the attitude of the Prince was far from
dignified. His Royal Highness was not really angry, but he told the poor
Earl of Something-or-other that he must write out the oath of the Order
that he had forgotten to wear. It was a long oath and the Earl's memory
was not so long."

We went from Nottingham to Glasgow. The date, I find, is May 1, 1900. It
was always Dr. Talmage's custom to visit the cemetery first, so we drove
out to the grave of John Knox. In Glasgow the Doctor preached at the
Cowcaddens Free Church to the usual crowded congregation, and he was
compelled to address an overflow meeting from the steps of the church
after the regular service. The best part of Dr. Talmage's holiday moods,
which were as scarce as he could make them because of the amount of work
he was always doing, were filled with the delight of watching the eager
interest in sightseeing of the two girls, Miss Maud Talmage and my
daughter. In Glasgow we encountered the usual wet weather of the
proverbial Scottish quality, and it was Saturday of the week before we
ventured out to see the Lakes. My daughter naively confesses the
situation to her journal as follows:--

"This A.M.--Got up at the usual starting hour, 7 o'clock, and as it
looked only dark we decided to go. At breakfast it started to rain again
and Mamma and the Doctor began to back out, but Maud and I talked to
some advantage. We argued that if we were going to sit around waiting
for a fair day in this country we might just as well give up seeing
anything more interesting than hotel parlours and dining-rooms.

"We started, and just as a 'send off' the old sky opened and let down a
deluge of water. It rained all the time we were on Loch Lomond, but that
didn't prevent us from being up on deck on the boat. From under
umbrellas we saw the most beautiful scenery in Scotland. Part of this
trip was made by coach, always in the pouring rain. We drove on and on
through the hills, seeing nothing but sheep, sheep, sheep. Doctor
Talmage asked the driver what kind of vegetables they raised in the
mountains and the driver replied--'mutton.' We had luncheon at a very
pretty little hotel on Loch Katrine, and here boarded a little steamer
launch, 'Rob Roy,' for a beautiful sail. I never, no matter where I
travel, expect to look upon a lake more beautiful. The mountains give
wildness and romance to the calm and quiet of the lake, and the island.
Maud read aloud to us parts of 'The Lady of the Lake' as we sat out on
deck."

In Edinburgh Dr. Talmage preached his well-known sermon upon unrequited
services, at the request of Lord Kintore, the son of the Earl of
Kintore, who had suggested the theme to him some years before. In fact
the Doctor wrote this sermon by special suggestion of the Earl of
Kintore.

Incidents great and small were such a large part of the eventful trip to
Europe that it is difficult to make those omissions which the
disinterested reader might wish. The Doctor, like ourselves, saw with
the same rose-coloured glasses that we did. We were very pleasantly
entertained in Edinburgh by Lord Kintore and others, but the most
interesting dinner party I think was when we were the guests of Sir
Herbert Simpson, brother of the celebrated Sir James Y. Simpson, the man
who discovered the uses of chloroform as an anæsthetic. We dined in the
very room where the discovery was first tested. When Dr. Simpson had
decided upon a final experiment of the effects of chloroform as an
anæsthetic, he invited three or four of his colleagues and friends to
share the test with him. They met in the very room where we dined with
Sir Herbert Simpson and his family. The story goes that when everything
had been prepared for the evening's work, Dr. Simpson informed "Sandy,"
an old servant, that he must not be disturbed under any circumstances,
telling him not to venture inside the door himself until 5 a.m. Then, if
no one had left the room, he was to enter. "Sandy" obeyed these
instructions to the letter, and came into the room at 5 in the morning.
He was very much shocked to find his master and the others under the
table in a stupor. "I never thought my master would come to this," said
Sandy. He was still in the employ of the family, being a very old man.

Dr. Talmage's engagements took him from Edinburgh to Liverpool, where he
preached. It was while there that we made a visit to Hawarden to see
Mrs. Gladstone. The Doctor had been to Hawarden before as the guest of
Mr. Gladstone, and was disappointed to find that Mrs. Gladstone was too
ill to be seen by anyone. We were entertained, however, by Mrs. Herbert
Gladstone. I remember how much the Doctor was moved when he saw in the
hall at Hawarden a bundle of walking sticks and three or four hats
hanging on the hat-rack, as Mr. Gladstone had left them when he died.

From Liverpool we went to Sheffield, where Dr. Talmage preached to an
immense congregation. It was in May, the time when all England is
flower-laden, when the air is as sweet as perfume and the whole
countryside is as fascinating as a garden. It was the coaching season,
too, and the Doctor entered into the spirit of these beautiful days very
happily. We took a ten days' trip from Leamington after leaving
Sheffield, coaching through the exquisite scenery around about Warwick,
Kenilworth, and the Shakespeare country in Stratford-on-Avon. Most of
these reminiscences are full of incidents too intimate for public
interest. Like a dream that lifts one from prosaic life into the places
of precious remembrance I recall these long, happy days in the glorious
sunset of his life.

We returned to London in time for the Doctor's first preaching
engagement there on May 28, 1900. The London newspapers described him as
"The American Spurgeon."

"And now before the services opened at St. James' Hall a congregation of
3,000 people waited to hear Dr. Talmage," says a London newspaper. Then
it goes on to say further:--

"Dr. Talmage, who has preached from pulpits all over the world, may be
described as an 'American Spurgeon.' None of our great English speakers
is less of an orator. Dr. Talmage is a great speaker, but his power as
an orator is not by any means that of a Gladstone or a Bright. It lies
more in the matter than in the manner, in his wonderful imagery, the
vividness with which he conjures up a picture before the congregation.
He is a great artist in words. Dr. Talmage affects nothing; he is
naturalness itself in the pulpit, and the manner of his speech suggests
that he is angry with his subject. The sermon on this occasion lent
itself well to a master of metaphor such as Dr. Talmage, it being a
review of the last great battle of the world, when the forces of right
and wrong should meet for the final mastery."

Dr. Talmage rarely preached this sermon because it was a great tax on
his memory. It included a suggestion of all the great battles of the
earth, a vivid description of the armies of the world marching forward
in the eternal human struggle of right against wrong until they were
masked for the last great battle of all, when "Satan would take the
field in person, in whose make-up nothing bad was left out, nothing good
was put in."

It is very remarkable to see the universal acknowledgments of the
Doctor's genius in England, one of the London newspapers going so far as
to describe him in its headlines as "America's Apostle." Nothing I could
write about him could be more in eulogy, more in sympathy in
comprehension of his brilliant sacred message to the world. England
proclaimed him as he was, with deep sincerity and reverence.

His favourite sermon, and it was mine also, was upon the theme of
unrequited services, the text being from I Samuel xxx. 24, "But as his
part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that
tarrieth by the stuff." It was in this sermon that Dr. Talmage made
reference to Florence Nightingale, in the following words:--

"Women, your reward in the eternal world will be as great as that of
Florence Nightingale, the Lady of the Lamp." While in London he preached
this sermon, and the following day to our surprise the Doctor received
the following note at his hotel:--

    "June 3, 1900.
    "10, South Street,
    "Park Lane.

    "Dear Sir--
    "I could gladly see you to-morrow (Monday) at 5.--Yours faithfully,
    "FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE.
    "T. DeWitt Talmage, of America."

I have carefully kept the letter in my autograph album.

Dr. Talmage and I called at the appointed time. It was a beautiful
summer day and we found the celebrated woman lying on a couch in a room
at the top of the house, the windows of which looked out on Hyde Park.
She was dressed all in white. Her face was exquisitely spiritual, calm,
sweet with the youth of a soul that knew no age. She had never known
that she had been called 'The Lady of the Lamp' by the soldiers of the
Crimea till she read of it in the Doctor's sermon. She was curious to be
told all about it. In conversation with the Doctor she made many
inquiries about America and the Spanish war, making notes on a pad of
what he said. The Doctor told her that she looked like a woman who had
never known the ordinary conflicts of life, as though she had always
been supremely happy and calm in her soul. I remember she replied that
she had never known a day's real happiness till she began her work as a
nurse on the battlefield.

"I was not always happy," she said; "I had my idle hours when I was a
girl." I may not remember her exact words, but this is the sense of
them. She was past 82 years of age at the time.

Enjoying the intervals of sight-seeing, such as the Tower, the Museum,
Westminster Abbey, and the usual wonders of historical London, we
remained in town several weeks. I remember a visit which Mr. Choate, the
American Ambassador, made us with a view to extending any courtesy he
could for the Doctor while we were in England. I told him that I was
more anxious to see the British Parliament in session than anything
else.

"I should think, as Dr. Talmage has with him a letter from the President
of the United States, this request could be arranged," I said.

Mr. Choate gracefully replied that Dr. Talmage required no introduction
anywhere, not even from the President, and arranged to have the Charge
d'Affaires, Mr. White, who was later Ambassador to France, take us over
to the Houses of Parliament, where we were permitted a glimpse of the
Members at work from the cage enclosure reserved for lady visitors.

The Doctor's friends in England did their best to make us feel at home
in London. We were dined and lunched, and driven about whenever Dr.
Talmage could spare time from his work. Sir Alfred Newton, the Lord
Mayor, and Lady Newton gave us a luncheon at the Mansion House on June
5, 1900. I remember the date because it was an epoch in the history of
England. During the luncheon the news reached the Lord Mayor of the
capture of Pretoria. He ordered a huge banner to be hung from the
Mansion House on which were the words--

"THE BRITISH FLAG FLIES AT PRETORIA."

This was the first intimation of the event given to Londoners in that
part of the city. Side by side with it another banner proclaimed the
National prayer, "God Save the Queen," in big red letters on the white
background. A scene of wild enthusiasm and excitement followed. Every
Englishman in that part of London, I believe, began to shout and cheer
at the top of his lungs. An immense crowd gathered in the adjoining
streets around the Mansion House. The morning war news had only
indicated a prolonged struggle, so that the capture of Pretoria was a
great and joyous surprise to the British heart. Suddenly all hats were
off, and the crowds in the streets sang the National Anthem. There were
loud calls for the Lord Mayor to make a speech. We watched it all from
the windows in the parlour of the Mansion House, at the corner of Queen
Victoria Street. Dr. Talmage was as wildly enthusiastic as any
Englishman, cheering and waving his arm from the open windows in hearty
accord with the crowd below. There was no sleep for anyone in London
that night. Around our hotel, the blowing of horns and cheering lasted
till the small hours of the morning. It seemed very much like the
excitement in America after the capture of the Spanish Fleet.

We left London finally with many regrets, having enjoyed the hospitality
of what is to me the most attractive country in the world to visit. We
went direct to Paris to attend the opening ceremonies of the Paris
Exposition of 1900. It seems like a very old story to tell anything
to-day of this event, and to Dr. Talmage it was chiefly a repetition of
the many Fairs he had seen in his life, but he found time to write a
description of it at the time, which recalls his impressions. He
regarded it as "An Object Lesson of Peace and a Tableau of the
Millennium."

His defence of General Peck, the American Commissioner-General, who was
criticised by the American exhibitors, was made at length. He considered
these criticisms unjust, and said so. During our stay in Paris Dr.
Talmage preached at the American churches.

Fearing that it would be difficult to secure rooms in Paris during the
Exposition, the Doctor had written from Washington during the winter and
engaged them at the hotel which a few years before had been one of the
best in Paris. Many changes had occurred since he had last been abroad,
however, and we found that the hotel where we had engaged rooms was far
from being suitable for us. The mistake caused some amusement among our
American friends, who were surprised to find Dr. Talmage living in the
midst of a Parisian gaiety entirely too promiscuous for his calling. We
soon moved away from this zone of oriental music and splendour to a
quieter and more remote hotel in the Rue Castiglione.

Dr. Talmage was restless, however, to reach the North Cape in the best
season to see the Midnight Sun in its glory, and we only remained in
Paris a few days, going from there to the Hague, Amsterdam, and thence
to Copenhagen in Denmark. In all the cities abroad we were always the
guests of the American Embassy one evening during our stay, and this
frequently led to private dinner parties with some of the prominent
residents, which the Doctor greatly enjoyed, because it gave him an
opportunity to know the foreign people in their homes. I remember one of
these invitations particularly because as we drove into the grounds of
our host's home he ordered the American flag to be hoisted as we
entered. The garden was beautiful with a profusion of yellow blossoms, a
national flower in Denmark known as "Golden Rain." We admired them so
much that our host wanted to present me with sprigs of the trees to
plant in our home at East Hampton. Dr. Talmage said he was sure that
they would not grow out there so near the sea. Remembering Judge
Collier's grounds in Pittsburg, where every sort of flower grows, I
suggested that they would thrive there. Our host took my father-in-law's
address, and to-day this "Golden Rain" of Denmark is growing beautifully
in his garden in Pittsburg.

We saw and explored Copenhagen thoroughly. The King of Denmark was
absent from the capital, but we stood in front of his palace with the
usual interest of visitors, little expecting to be entertained there, as
afterwards we were. It all came as a surprise.

We were on our way to the station to leave Copenhagen, when Mr.
Swenson, the American Minister, overtook us and informed us that the
Crown Prince and Princess desired to receive Dr. Talmage and his family
at the summer palace. Though it may be at the risk of _lèse majesté_ to
say it, some persuasion was necessary to induce the Doctor to remain
over. Our trunks were already at the station and Dr. Talmage was anxious
to get up to the North Cape. However, the American Minister finally
prevailed upon the Doctor to consider the importance of a request from
royalty, and we went back to the hotel into the same rooms we had just
left.

Our presentation took place the next day at the summer palace, which is
five miles from Copenhagen. It was the most informally delightful
meeting. The formalities of royalty that are sometimes made to appear so
overwhelming to the ordinary individual, were so gracefully interwoven
by the Crown Prince and the Princess with cordiality and courtesy, that
we were as perfectly at ease, as if there had been crowns hovering over
our own heads. The royal children were all present, too, and we talked
and walked and laughed together like a family party. The Crown Princess
said to me, "Come, let me show you my garden," and we strolled in the
beautiful grounds. The Crown Prince said, "Come, let me show you my
den," and there gave us the autographs of himself and the Princess. We
left regretfully. As we drove away the royal party were gathered at the
front windows of the palace waving their handkerchiefs to us in graceful
adieus. I remember my little daughter was very much surprised with the
simplicity of the whole affair, saying to me as we drove away, "Why, it
was just like visiting Grandpa's home."

On our way to Tröndhjem from Copenhagen we stayed over a few days at
Christiania, where we were the guests of Nansen, the Arctic explorer.
His home, which stood out near the water's edge, was like a bungalow
made of pine logs. There were no carpets on the floors, which were
covered with the skins of animals he had himself killed. Trophies of all
sorts were in evidence. It was a very memorable afternoon with the
simple, brave, scientific Nansen.

At Tröndhjem we took the steamer "Köng Harald" for the North Cape. A
party of American friends had just returned from there with the most
lugubrious story about the bad weather and their utter failure to see
the sun. As it was pouring rain when we started, it would not have taken
much persuasion to induce us to give it all up. But we had started with
a purpose, and silently but firmly we went on with it. Dr. Talmage never
turned back at any cross road in his whole life. In a few hours after
leaving Tröndhjem we were in the raw, cold Arctic temperature where a
new order of existence begins.

We lose all sense of ordinary time, for our watches indicate midnight,
and there is no darkness. The over-hanging clouds draw slowly apart, and
the most brilliant, dazzling midnight sun covers the waters and sets the
sky on fire. It neither rises from the horizon or sinks into it. It
stays perfectly, immovably still. After a while it rises very slowly.
The meals on board are as irregular as the time; they are served
according to the adaptability of one's appetite to the strangeness of
the new element of constant daytime. We scarcely want to sleep, or know
when to do so. Fortunately our furs are handy, for there is snow and ice
on the wild, barren rocks on either side of us.

On July 1, at 8 p.m., we sighted this northernmost land, the Cape, and
were immediately induced to indulge in cod fishing from the decks of our
steamer. It is the custom, and the cod seem to accept the situation with
perverse indiscretion, for many of them are caught. Our lines and bait
are provided by sailors. Dinner is again delayed to enable us to indulge
in this sport, but we don't mind because we have lost all the habitual
tendencies of our previous normal state.

