He never uttered a word, but ate his breakfast, and enjoyed it
thoroughly, thinking it far nicer than all the good things he had had
in the Doctor's study on the previous night.  Last night!  Could it
really be last night?  It seemed such a long, long while ago.

[Illustration: "He never uttered a word, but ate his breakfast, and
enjoyed it thoroughly."--WILTON SCHOOL, page 131.]

Meanwhile, Mr and Mrs Blewcome were conversing confidentially together
at the other end of the van; and, from what Harry could gather, this
appeared to be the state of the case:

The labours and responsibilities of the menagerie were becoming a
little too much for the proprietor and his wife.  They could not afford
to pay a man to help, nor did they care to enter into partnership with
any one.  They must pick up some lad who would do all sorts of odd
jobs, and require nothing more than his keep.  Plenty of old clothes
were always to be found.  And when Harry heard them congratulating
themselves on their "find," he knew they alluded to him, and that they
had marked out his future for him as a member of their enterprising
profession.

Shortly afterwards, they told him their plans, and what they wanted him
to do, and what they would do for him in return; and they spoke so
kindly, that poor, friendless, homeless Harry was thankful he had
fallen in with them, and began to feel a trifle happier.

When his father came home, he would be sure to search for him and find
him, of course.  Harry flattered himself.  Till then, what better could
he do than stay where he thought he should find kindness.  And in this
last supposition he was right.  First impressions go a long way.  Harry
took to his patrons at once, and did everything they told him willingly
and obediently, though at times the drudgery lay very hard upon him.
But the excitement and freshness of his strange new life kept him up;
and, moreover, he had a home, and food, and clothes, such as they were;
and when he ran away from school, he never knew, or even dreamt, how he
should get these.  So he must not mind the drudgery.

And Mr and Mrs Blewcome, in their turn, soon came to treat him quite as
a child of their own; so that one day, as they were rumbling along,
Harry (it is true, after numerous questionings) opened his heart to the
motherly Mrs Blewcome, and told her all his story.

But often at night he would lie awake for hours; realising then in the
quiet, when there was no stir to attract his thoughts, how utterly
lonely he was in the world, and his lips would send out his one sad
burthen:

"Mamma, mamma, why did you die? why did you die?"


CHAPTER XVII.

THE LOST FOUND.

Egerton expelled--Harry lost--Settling to work--Two years after--A
triumphal entry--The halt--Pre-occupied--A stranger--Found at last.


There was a great stir in Wilton on Harry's disappearance.  The single
policeman the village boasted was sent for and vigorously interrogated.

Had he seen any traces of a young gentleman answering to Harry's
description?

"No! he hadn't seen nothing!"

Was he on his beat that night?  Had he passed the school buildings?

He had stood talking for half-an-hour in one spot of the village, and
then had gone to bed.

"He hadn't thought there was any call for him to go round the village."

No wonder "he hadn't seen nothing!"

All other inquiries met with pretty much the same answer.  It was in
vain.  Harry was quite beyond all discovery.

So Doctor Palmer wrote at last to H.M.S. "Fervid," telling
Chief-engineer Campbell, honestly and openly, the whole proceeding;
concluding his letter with some kind and tender words of sympathy for
him in his sorrow.

But what holds you in the stranger? Ewald. A Well, to me no accident
can rob a loyal and strong emotional intelligence. Aloe. Who says you,
a mind that was safer inheritance, as you can 'because there so
many fools give?

Ewald. And an art that surpasses all the arts. Aloe. Perhaps the art
hoodwinked me to lead? Ewald.

On the contrary, I would like your beauty in the highest gloss
appearance. Aloe. I hear's not like when one speaks of my charms,
I am no longer new; habit kills our finest pleasures.

Let's go now, ah, my memory is so weak, what did you last talk? Ewald.
From the beauty of your speech, yes. Aloe. Yes, yes, that's what I
do not hear much. You wanted it erhöhn? Ewald.

To Venus rank if you hand me your niece praised. Aloe. What do you,
Atritia is a unbemittelt child, at any price! Ewald. Also not the one
today in the temple where the king goes? Aloe (frightened). Are you
of your senses? Am I scared but as if 'arrow of Cupid hit me.

I am already a ausgeblühte Rose, are not more apparent in the spring
shines. Ewald. I want my art that you shine verleihn. Above all daughters
of the empire should you win the beauty prize, but your niece is mine,
I have led 'to continue with me. Aloe. That you could, a mortal, the
effect of what I have prescribed the Cerberus would have if
he's assets could be? Ewald.

I'll give 'to you my word, and groundbreaking' I do, you will need to
keep your not. Aloe. Does not make me mad. You wanted aloe rejuvenate?
Ewald. Why not? If aloe, the plant, with a hundred years, new
flowers driveth why aloe, the woman, not containing sixty erblühn?

Aloe. With sixty, yes, because you have right, that is the true
flowering time.

Mir is a flourishing 'I said - start' has to be fragrant. O heavens, what
a happiness that I feel myself young, I just stop the years. Ewald. To
moderate you, it's not yet time. Expect me in the house, I have only
myself to the King show. If only it Atritien and says that she should
be my wife. Aloe. Yes, yes, you must have Atritien, I give it you.
Oh, if I have a flock of girls had all you could to drive after
your landing.

Only continued thus, only be continued, the best left behind. The best
part - a world of delight in that name. And I am the fairest, is the
most beautiful man to me The most beautiful man! Oh, how many worlds
come together as - (opposite the house.)

Atritia, Atritia, we get both men! O gods, is to me, which costs the
mind. (Urgent happily anyway.) Sixteenth scene. Ewald (alone). As a young
man feels love twice holder value, if it's age loss entrust hear.
Yelling (from inside). The boar is shot. It leb 'the great
hero! Ewald. The boar is killed, the country borst'ge Plage. Since
Simplizius ways; the point, and full of fear. If his anger evaporated?
Seventeenth scene. Previous. Simplizius. Simplizius. Are you there?
Ewald. What do you Simplizius?

      Simplizius. Imagine, I've killed the boar.

Ewald. You? Not possible. Simplizius. Now that's all they say. Ewald.
All? Who? Simplizius. The races that I have zugeschaut. Ewald. That
is a huge pig. Simplizius. Is a greater scope than we do every
second. Ewald.
And
this was a general signal for a "wake-up."  The whips were plied
lustily over the jaded horses, to give them a lively, not to say frisky
appearance.  The trumpets rose to the lips of the musicians, and the
drumsticks flew into the hands of the energetic drummer, and with an
elevating strain of discordant music, Blewcome's Royal Menagerie
majestically entered the town.

It did the hearts good of Blewcome and his spouse to see the
street-doors flung open, and the gaping faces of the suburban
inhabitants; and from the ever-increasing number of dirty little boys
who brought up the rear of the cavalcade, Mrs Blewcome began reckoning
on an unprecedented harvest of good luck.  And the trumpeters
trumpeted, and the drummer drummed; but as usual the latter had a long
way the best of it.

The morning was spent, as it always was on such occasions, in arranging
the caravans in the wonted horse-shoe shape.  At the square end of the
horse-shoe, so to speak, stretched the imposing canvas screen, painted
in a most elaborate style, by the hand of some artist whose name
unhappily has not been preserved for the benefit of posterity.  There
you might see the sheep-like lion, and the pig-like bear; leopards like
short-legged zebras, and monkeys most unpleasantly like human beings.
Indeed, ill-natured persons had been heard to declare one picture of a
very lean ancient ourang-outang bore a strong resemblance to Mr
Blewcome.  But, then, some people see such strange likenesses!

And there were painted on the screen sundry other impossible animals,
intended to attract  the outside spectators, and induce them to enter
and behold the wondrous originals within that magic circle of caravans.
And while all these preparations were being hurried on, the yellow
chariot and the band paraded the town at various periods of the day.

The first night at a new place was always a sort of refreshment to the
jaded show-people.  They had not much novelty, in good truth.  But on
these occasions they had the slight excitement of seeing new faces, and
speculating how their arrival would "draw" the populace.

Harry, of course, young as he was to the business of his present life,
quite naturally looked forward to the new places and new people.

At eight o'clock the band ascended the platform ranged in front of the
painted screen before alluded to, and set about making a great deal of
noise, and a goodly assemblage began to flock towards the show, and
carried quite away by the life-like pictorial representations of the
animals, first hesitated, then put their hands in their pockets,
hesitated again, and finally paid their sixpences and went in.

Mrs Blewcome was in high glee at the rapid way in which her exchequer
was filling.  Mr Blewcome was in the midst of a most instructive
harangue upon the nature and habits of that sportive animal, the
elephant, and Harry sat on the steps of the platform, where the band
was playing, and watched the people whom the show attracted, and those,
too, who kept perpetually passing to and fro between the centre of the
town and the docks.  Lulu (to Fanfu). You see, it works, it will equal
a different language. (Both are approaching him gently.)

What is you, dear trembling needle? Simplizius (wild). Still, do not
talk to me, your bagatelles, I understand 'is not what it is, I
get' a kalekutischer fury like a rooster, and I do not know for what.

If I were him only to someone you can omit '. Bring me a stick, I most
'myself around. (The genii laugh secretly.) Simplizius. Yes, what
is that? You're wicked boys these are on top of each other, you are
indeed in the skin do not use it so you should Haun, so often you watch
it. The seh 'ich erst The genii now (close to begging). But rather
Zitterspinne needle! Simplizius (a tear from Baumast). If I am not
in my sewing 'or I massacre' you every second.

Lulu.

To hear us, you have to fly after Kallidalos, there you will find the
poet, your friend. Simplizius. Nu, let me traun the hau 'ich in Jambes
that Füß' herumkugeln. Now continue and creates kolerisches me a horse
that I ride through the air can! Lulu. A kolerisches horse? the
throws you down yes. Simplizius.

Then bring me a Auer's pet, which throws me back up.

Lulu. Nu, as you like.

(He waves a winged Sûre animal appears
in the clouds.) Is already there. Simplizius. Ha, da ist mein Arabs.

Now is galloping. Sets you up, to the two Hörndl. Lulu. Ah, we do not
dare. Reit just ahead, we'll come after you. (Running from). Simplizius.
Ha, coward brood! (Rise up). Since I'm a guy else. Now, I 's beef
ausgehn not, I care. Hottó, mold! That he does not understand .-- Bruaho!
(The bull flies from.) Jetzt geht's los.

Fourth scene. Deeper rocky area, in the distant woods, on the side
a forest hut. In the middle stands Phalarius with a golden spear
throwing armed, in front of him is a lion and trembles. Phalarius.

What trembling exasperate you, verachtungswürd'ger Leu, and prevent the
neck FEIG shine before my crown? Disgusted me humility, because I
do not fight shy, never dishonor my forehead such Welker victory wreath.
What Jupiter has so richly endowed you? Why promised you the mane
', the symbol of high force?

The proud Gliederbau on which the eye is Labtest • The threat of
teeth, before the violence tired?

The roar of thunder, the tank of your skin? Did you have all
the power to powers 'ger to quake? schäm' thee, Nature, you built him
this throne, That is thy ruler now and trembles for his life.

(hard) You have with snakes, lynx and panther animal controversy; To
reg 'dich doch, threatening' also informed me mächt'ger stealing '.

You edelmüt'ges animal, but let you ask, you Verteid'ge so I shiver
resistance'. How can a king be talking to another. Make me livid, denk
' you're born to the dispute. But it is not? Well! So I want you, you
gods, revenge.

He honors his existence is not, so it's lost for him. (He kills him,
slams into the horn, and bow hunters will be shocked.) Bring me the
lion away, I can no longer see. (The lion is away, he is thinking
of winding arms.) What I use violence when they collect me so?

Can I light the earth rotate like a spindle, it would not be a triumph
because they are not reluctant. Aspasia dead , by my crown entseelt
dagger. Abscheul'che hell, so you fulfill my desire?
And you may be sure Harry's heart was very glad when he heard all
this--all this that he might have known two years ago.  Two years ago,
he could scarcely believe it.  Two years is such a long while to the
young.

Afterwards, they spoke of what was nearest to their hearts; the death
that happened far back on that afternoon in June, far away in the
little farm at Wilton by the sea.  And Alan made his boy repeat over
and over again all he could remember of those last days, and last words
uttered by the lips that were so dear to them both, and that never were
to touch theirs again.  And they had for the time entirely forgotten
about the message sent to the good people of the show; so that when
there came a rap at the door, and Mrs Blewcome entered, Mr Campbell
looked up, and said bluntly--

"Well, ma'am, who are you?"

This was too much for Mrs Blewcome.  She had been sent for by "this
man!" and he asked her who she was!  She drew herself up, and answered
with dignity:

"Mrs Blewcome! of Blewcome's Royal Menaggery!" and, catching sight of
Harry, she exclaimed--

"So it's you as have taken our boy off, is it?"

"Sit down, my good woman, sit down, and I will explain my reason for
sending for you."

Mrs Blewcome deposited the enormous umbrella which she invariably
carried in the finest weather, upon the clean white tablecloth, and,
seating herself with a bump upon a chair, clasped two very hot hands
upon her lap, and waited.

"When, and where, did you find this little boy?" asked Mr Campbell.

Mrs Blewcome did not like this point-blank questioning.  She fidgetted
in her chair and said nothing.  Mr Campbell repeated his question.  Mrs
Blewcome repeated her movements, expressive of unwillingness to reply.

"Very well," said Mr Campbell, good-humouredly; "as you won't tell me,
I'll tell you.  You found him, two years ago, about three miles outside
Wilton, a small village on the Bristol Channel.  He had run away from
school.  He told you a long tale about himself, and, among other
things, that he had a father at sea.  I am his father.  I only landed
here last night, and, by a mere chance, have thus stumbled across my
boy.  Had I hunted for him, I dare say I never should have found him."

Mrs Blewcome sat in astonishment.  After she had somewhat recovered,
she burst out--

"Well, there, to be sure, I am so glad; dear boy; but I don't know what
I shall do without 'im.  I don't know what I shall do, to be sure; and
Blewcome getting that hindolentlike!"

This good-natured, believing speech, touched Alan's heart.  There was
no indignation at her prize being carried off by one who was a mere
stranger to her.  There was no doubting or disbelieving his reality as
the boy's father, but only unselfish joy that Harry found his own again
at last!

"You are a good soul," said Mr Campbell, quite affected.  "I cannot
thank you enough for all your care of my boy.  It's been a strange home
for him, but that's no fault of yours.  I shall never forget you.  Here
is a card; and if you are ever in need, write to me, and I will do all
I can for you."

"So I s'pose I must say good-bye to 'im, sir," asked Mrs Blewcome, with
trembling voice.

"Well, yes," meditated Mr Campbell, "I suppose you must."

And the parting on both sides convinced him how truly kind the good
woman had been to his boy, and how she had completely won his heart.

"Don't be offended, Mrs Blewcome," he added; "but here's a trifle for
you, it'll help you to paint up your caravans.  I dare say they'll be
none the worse for a fresh bit of colour."

"Thank you, sir, thank you," said Mrs Blewcome, with open eyes and
hands.  "I'm not a-going to be proud;" and she didn't look as if she
were, as she slipped Alan's ill-spared ten-pound note into her pocket.

"Good-bye, sir.  Good-bye, my dear boy!  Here's a ticket for the show,
sir, if I may make so bold; we've got some werry fine beastesses, sir.
Good-bye, dear!"  And Mrs Blewcome curtsied herself from the room, with
moist eyes and a heart genuinely saddened, for Harry had grown very
dear to her during their two years' strange acquaintance.


CHAPTER XIX.

AT WILTON ONCE MORE.

"Vengeance" still--Driving to Wilton--At the farm--In the
churchyard--The grammar-school--Wilton left again--Life's business.


Shortly after the departure of Mrs Blewcome, a large parcel was brought
into the room, containing clothes for Harry; and how glad he was when,
in the course of about half-an-hour, he stood fully arrayed before the
looking-glass in his father's bedroom at the hotel.  Once more he was
in his rightful position; he was with his father, an outcast no more;
no longer dependent on the doubtful fortunes of two show-people.  But
the revengeful feeling had not been stricken down within him.  On the
contrary, he only thought to himself, that now more possible than ever
was revenge; now more than ever would there be a chance of his meeting
with Egerton.  You see, he was such a mere child still, and knew so
little of the world, that he thought everything was easy.

His father soon noticed the change in his tone whenever Egerton's name
was mentioned--the flushing cheeks, the eyes that lit up with anger;
and though he himself was far, very far, from palliating Egerton's
conduct, yet he felt obliged to speak seriously to his boy.  But though
Harry listened, and promised to try and crush out his passion, he could
not rid himself of it; it still clung to him; and when once the chiding
words of his father ceased, he again brooded over his purpose of
revenge.

The following morning they left the hotel.  The waiters were now
abjectly admiring, and in the most mellifluous tones that signified
their "great expectations," expressed to the heedless Mr Campbell their
congratulations on the discovery of his son.  They could scarcely
believe their eyes at the sight of Harry, the fine handsome boy, with
curling sunny hair and gentlemanly bearing, when they thought of the
untidy, raggedly-clad lad, upon whom they had been obliged to wait, the
previous night.

But then, these sort of people only estimate a gentleman by the
grandeur of his dress, and in the present day it is reasonably to be
expected they make many and serious mistakes.

It was not long before Harry and his father were both seated in the
train that was to carry them to Wilton.  - What you got, Serafina? How
are you doing here - I am here ... for not being at home, run by the
master of the inn. ... I am here because I'm going to beat. No joke. O
pray, or ... a box of matches.

You know? Mochi does not return. You know? I've lost your voice! Yes,
completely lost. The day you wrote ... and I did not reply, you know,
when you're asked to pay for those real fonda ....

Well, since that day ... that night ... as he had offered to pay and
not pay ... no answer ... because I had a battle with improperios D.
Carlos ...

The infamous! Gorgheggi ... The silent a moment, because the emotion
was suffocating, anger, grief, shame .... Two tears, they should know
to vinegar, it loomed in the eyes. - The infamous had the courage to
insult me as a woman lost ... I threatened to justice, with plants
in the stream .... I missed running, I went out to the street, as it
was, without a hat .... But I came back. Because I left it all ....
My luggage, the only thing I have in the world. I do not know
how I caught that night, when relente, angry, wet down the street
...

Oh Well, the voice, which went very badly, it was suddenly .... Since
that night, singing ... as your wife. Do not leave the inn ... because
I can not pay. D. Carlos insults me sometimes ... and other Requiebros
me. I do not want fans or high or low ... because I do not want ...
because all that I get sick. Mochi does not return .... In my last
letter and has not replied. Like you. You're a gentleman.

You are asked not to receive four quarters insults ... a miserable, not
contestáis .... I do not know where to go in my house, I spy a creditor
that wants to be my lover, me in the street pursued by fools, bores me
stupid curiosity of the people .... I have no money or to escape ...
To escape where? I get into the church. This is mine, and all. You
taught me to feel well, to want peace ... ... to dream, to wish
impossible ....

Here I am quiet ... and in my prayers. I have faith, faith that is
called .... But I would have it. The saints, all those, that San
Roque and San Sebastián with this banderillas throughout the body
... ... that bishop, San Isidoro ..., all will understand me. I have
no religion ... but for now ... fans disgust me ... I do not want fans
... waiting to see if the voice again ... or if you come back. Mochi
is a bad man, a traitor, a miserable ... and I knew if I knew.
But you ... I did not believe it was. Bonis, forsake me not .... I ...
I love you ... even more than before, much more really. I must be sick
.... The world scares me ... the drama ... I am appalled, horrified
me the courtship .... I want peace ... ...

I dream, I honestly ... not farce live ... bread and have not let my body
be a stranger ... Now I know not whom. Yours, yes. Of others, no. Want?
Bonis, although little formalist in religious matters, and notwithstanding
that the words, and tone, and both had tears of Serafina enternecido
up the ineffable, he thought, above all, they were in the church
and was not nothing about the place for that kind of treatment and
contracts.

Before answering, looked back into the baptistery, to see if someone
had repaired his encounter with the singer. The naming committee had
disappeared. Lie had not even stopped in the absence of Reyes.
It was negligible for all. Minghetti, however, remained enthralled
with their mischief in the harmonic body. Craze that was: to be
heavy, for a joke when he was playing. Bonis, with disgust for speaking
about such matters here, in the temple, but Compadecida to the
bottom of the soul, and, moreover, not prepared to abdicate his
dignity as a parent without spot, or relax TAPUJOS habits, he said
with a voice that sought to make the loving couple to sign, and it
came out temblona, balbuciente and weak - Serafina ...

I love you I owe you the whole truth .... I, now, I live for my son
.... Our love ... were illegal .... I owe a great good God, a grace ...
to have a child .... I offered the sacrifice of my desires for the
happiness of Antonio .... Moreover, I am ruined .... As for the material
...

I will do for you ... it can ... I'll be seen! ... D. To this Carlos,
who is a Jew ... I understand myself .... But I ruined ....

The voice ... your voice ... ... And here again, remembering the _voz_
that he had adored, Bonis was about to mourn as well. But the face of
Serafina scare again. That beautiful woman, who was the face of
beauty with goodness for Bonis ... Suddenly he found a snake ....
He had not seen much of the other passengers; in fact, he had kept
almost entirely to himself, only entering into conversation with the
captain, or any of the ship's crew that took his fancy.  And many were
the eyes of disappointment that in vain sought the friendship of the
reserved, wealthy, homeward-bound Englishman.

He was talking to the man at the helm, when his eye caught sight of
some one sitting, carelessly smoking, in a dangerous position near an
open part of the ship's bulwarks.  He abruptly ended his conversation,
and walking across the deck, said--

"Excuse me, sir, but you are not in a very safe place."

The man addressed started, and as he turned hastily, as if to see who
had presumed to dictate to him, slipped, and, clutching fruitlessly at
Harry's outstretched arms, fell headlong into the sea.  It was the work
of a second, but in that second Harry had recognised Egerton's face!

"Man overboard! man overboard!" was the cry.

The vessel was running at a rapid pace through the water, so that she
had already left the struggler in the waves, far behind.

"'Bout ship!" came the word of command; but long before the vessel
answered to the helm, Harry had flung off his coat and hat, and leapt
from the stern, down into the roaring waves, and striking out
vigorously, reached Egerton.

It was a hard battle he had there with the waters, and he thought the
boat, that speedily left the ship, would never reach them.  With one
hand he held up Egerton's head, while with the other he kept himself
afloat.  But the seconds, that seemed like hours, went on, and the boat
did not come.

(One of the warriors.) Only forward with the train. Chorus (the warrior).
Thanks to the heroes, the gods of the lion with courage gestählt, And
be the savior of the country they Gnädig prevailing chosen.

(Everything from, to) Twentieth scene. Dardonius. Courtiers.He raised himself with an effort and sent
his voice along the trough of the waves, "Boat ahoy!"

That shout was heard, but it had robbed him of his remaining strength.
His eyes were dim; his brain swam; he was losing consciousness, his
gallant arm fell from beneath the head it had supported, and he sank!

