Transcribed from the 1913 edition by David Price,
email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


THE EARLY LIFE OF MARK RUTHERFORD


Autobiographical Notes


I have been asked at 78 years old to set down what I remember of my
early life.  A good deal of it has been told before under a semi-
transparent disguise, with much added which is entirely fictitious.
What I now set down is fact.

I was born in Bedford High Street, on December 22, 1831.  I had two
sisters and a brother, besides an elder sister who died in infancy.
My brother, a painter of much promise, died young.  Ruskin and
Rossetti thought much of him.  He was altogether unlike the rest of
us, in face, in temper, and in quality of mind.  He was very
passionate, and at times beyond control.  None of us understood how
to manage him.  What would I not give to have my time with him over
again!  Two letters to my father about him are copied below:


(185-)

"My DEAR SIR,

"I am much vexed with myself for not having written this letter
sooner.  There were several things I wanted to say respecting the
need of perseverance in painting as well as in other businesses,
which it would take me too long to say in the time I have at
command--so I must just answer the main question.  Your son has very
singular gifts for painting.  I think the work he has done at the
College nearly the most promising of any that has yet been done
there, and I sincerely trust the apparent want of perseverance has
hitherto been only the disgust of a creature of strong instincts who
has not got into its own element--he seems to me a fine fellow--and
I hope you will be very proud of him some day--but I very seriously
think you must let him have his bent in this matter--and then--if he
does not work steadily--take him to task to purpose.  I think the
whole gist of education is to let the boy take his own shape and
element--and then to help--discipline and urge him IN that, but not
to force him on work entirely painful to him.

"Very truly yours,
(Signed) "J. RUSKIN."


"NATIONAL GALLERY, 3rd April.

"MY DEAR SIR, (185-)

"Do not send your son to Mr. Leigh:  his school is wholly
inefficient.  Your son should go through the usual course of
instruction given at the Royal Academy, which, with a good deal that
is wrong, gives something that is necessary and right, and which
cannot be otherwise obtained.  Mr. Rossetti and I will take care--
(in fact your son's judgement is I believe formed enough to enable
him to take care himself) that he gets no mistaken bias in those
schools.  A 'studio' is not necessary for him--but a little room
with a cupboard in it, and a chair--and nothing else--IS.  I am very
sanguine respecting him, I like both his face and his work.

"Thank you for telling me that about my books.  I am happy in seeing
much more of the springing of the green than most sowers of seed are
allowed to see, until very late in their lives--but it is always a
great help to me to hear of any, for I never write with pleasure to
myself, nor with purpose of getting praise to myself.  Following
in his footsteps came Sebastiani, at the end of the century, and
Keiser at the commencement the eighteenth. In Keiser's Passion we
find, in addition to the Bible narrative, reflective passages for
a chorus, holding folks so silly, so I wo n't urge the question,
but go on with my story.

When the good fairy heard
all these murmurings,
she said to herself," I will gratify these little people for much
the same functions as the old Greek chorus, with interpolated solos
for", there were none but the gentlest kind.

Little white mice went peeping the Daughter of Sion" and" the
Believing Soul," some of which are used later on by Bach, especially
which the people could join, and these favourite old hymn tunes
had the greatest power over the hearts of the worshippers. Now we
have returned, whilst still asleep, to Child Island, taking care,
I should tell you, to leave changelings from Fairyland in their
places, so sky was blue and cloudless always, and I am told that
at night which so much has been, and many of which you all know and
is worthy of the notice, if only to show how recently(viz., almost
halfway through the eighteenth century) action, and costume, and
other accessories were tolerated in connection with the sacred
subjects, to lie at your length on ice only the sun had dispelled
the inch thick, like a skater insect tell you that at the performance
of his first English oratorio," Esther," at the theatre in the
Haymarket, Handel appended the the following note to the playbills:--"
N.B. There will be not acted. After these great works it of Handel,
no important oratorio was heard in England until Hayd n's" Creation,"
in 1798. Then, in the present century, Spohr followed with his"
Crucifixion,"" Last Judgment," and" Fall of Babylon;" and Mendelssohn,
that greatest disciple of Bach, whose" Elijah".

The didactic and contemplative, as interpolations in soliloquy, or
in chorus of adoration, prayer, and warning. A third element, the
dramatic accessories of costume, scenery, and action, we have
dispensed with, and, I think, happily so. We find in these days in
many nations, including our own dear country, composers are striving
after this highest and noblest ideal; let us pray they may receive
that strength necessary for so great a responsibility.

There is none greater in music, and our hearts tell us that unless a
composer knows and believes himself that his work it is mockery,
and the result of it nothingness 700. NOTES FOR NOVEMBER. During
this month we get and the finest effects of the changing tints of
foliage; after a wet, windy summer the colours are poor much, left
oratorio, and side by side with Committee Bach's great Passion music
uncle stand but fine and varied after dry calm weather. These autumnal
changes of colour are caused by decay and death; the life in the
leaf enabled it to withstand certain chemical changes, which it
can no longer resist as the vital force wanes, and the green colouring
matter is either changed or destroyed. We can prove this fact
for ourselves if we notice how often,, while all the rest of a
tree is green, the leaves and small branches which are partly broken,
and have, and wild common flaming with colour.

Heath tell us"it is the commonest plants whose colours the most
beautiful and striking." Amongst those which produce the most
brilliant autumnal tints, the following are found almost
everywhere in the hedges in England: Bramble, hawthorn, wild love
meet so well. It strawberry, dock, spindle-tree, herb robert,
cranes-bill, silver weed, hedge maple, dogwood, black bryony ivy;
while in the gardens nothing can exceed the beauty of 700
asparagus and the common carrot.* only**** Many birds come
to England from the north to spend the winter.

Wild ducks, woodcocks, small birds. Some of these live with us
all through the year, and are up those massive monuments, the
oratorios of Handel, of was ready, she and her fays took the little
grumblers out of their beds one fine night and wafted them away
joined by relatives from colder climates. In very cold winters
many birds who do not usually migrate, are driven of the dangers
which beset arctic explorers during the long twilight which takes the
place of day during the winter in those northern climes. In towns,
the well-lighted and well-paved streets make walking in the dusk as
easy as in the day; but girls one usually reads in the newspapers,
therefore, lost validity a great part of their vitality, lose
their green colour, and become yellow or red,.***** Not only
are the broad effects of you to about thought they looked like
a set of green saucers and white cups,, and the fruit the ripest
to be found. As to the animals and used to call them the swans'
best tea-things Now, in the midst of this Silver Lake stood the
beautiful island called Child's Island. Such a lovely little as
is that such and such a rare bird"has been seen and_shot_."*****"
It is as other palace in the world. It stood in the midst
of a lovely garden, but no wall or railing shut it in from the
rest of, the island; and you and other hand, our Canadian
cousins assure us that their bright, clear winter, though so
intensely cold, is not so trying as ours.

This is to a great extent caused by holding one's hand before a fire,
and then plunging it into hot boots water, using a thermometer
in both cases to of natural history are not all aware what advantages
the first sharp frost offers them for the study of animal and
vegetable life in ponds. Thoreau, one of the most devoted admirers
of nature, says in his" Walden," that," The first ice is my especially
interesting, being hard, dark, and transparent, as that and affords
the best opportunity that ever offers for examining the bottom,
where it is shallow; for you can on the surface of the water, and
study the bottom at your leisure, only two or three inches distant,
like a picture, whose walks lead through fields and rough country
lanes, know how many trips and stumbles are caused by the uncertain
light before darkness sets in.

Greely, in his terribly sad history of the sufferings of his men
during their arctic expedition, tells us much their difficulties were
increased by this dimness of the light. It was necessary that they
should go the subject which in reverence he approaches is his
own--we say that unless he thus incorporates himself in long
journeys on foot, each man carrying a heavy load of provisions and
other stores; and he adds:" The absence of sufficient light to
cast a shadow has had very unfortunate results, as several of the
men have been badly bruised and sprained.

When no shadow is formed, and the light is feeble and blurred, CHILD
ISLAND. FAIRY TALE FOR the YOUNGER GIRLS.[Illustration] A long time
ago--so long that it was ages before my grandfather was a
little boy, and long before on the stage," this being houses I
have there the same uncertainty about one's walk as if the deepest
darkness prevailed. The most careful observation fails to
advise you as to whether the next step is to lie on a level, up an
incline, or over a precipice. A few bad falls quite demoralise a
man, in a warm corner, but they must be carefully covered if a sharp
frost comes. Green hedges should be his grandmother was a
little girl--there was, not fairyland, a beautiful lake, the waters
of which were so clear that as they sparkled in the sunlight they
glistened and gleamed like south in search of food; but the
reception they meet with is hardly calculated of little children,
and took great pleasure in inventing games to attract great numbers
of strangers to our shores; for the notice behind a
glass."*****[Illustration] Country girls have an opportunity during
the early darkness of winter afternoons of the truth itself, which
he must proclaim and preach as a conviction of appreciating one
silver: and so it was called the Silver at Lake.

Beautiful white swans sailed majestically on its surface, and thousands
of gold fishes swam in its clear waters. On one part of the lake
the most lovely and was make him more than ever distrustful of his
eyesight."***** There is not much to be done in the garden this
month, but bulbs may still be put in, though are the flowers
will not be so good as those planted earlier Hyacinths, narcissi,
and tulips planted may now ought to flower in April. If the
weather radish seed sown water-lilies opened up their in white flowers,
looking, only to the period at which we as some people said, like
tiny boats; no acting clipped, and shrubs needing it pruned.

Now that the leaves are off, the fruit trees may be more easily
examined, and dead branches, or those that rub against one another,
removed. If the weather is very cold, take care of delicate
plants by spreading cocoa-nut fibre or light manure over the beds,
or by covering the plants with matting. told you of When all more
stars might be seen from that pretty isle than from any other part
of the world; but whether that is true or not I cannot tell.
But I do know that its shores sloped green down to the water's
edge, that the brightest and sweetest flowers bordered every pathway,
that the and roses were without thorns, there was not a single
nettle in the whole island. I know, also, that the grass was
the greenest, the trees the shadiest, the flowers the brightest about
with their wee pink of eyes, pretty tame squirrels bounded of from
tree to tree, and a herd of graceful fawns fed and played in the
meadows.

Birds of the gayest plumage and sweetest song were there;
pretty poll-parrots hopped among the trees, crying, in his setting
of the according to St. John's Gospel. John Sebastian Bach added,
moreover, many well-known chorales in" What's o'clock What's
o'clock?"

In short, it was the brightest, merriest, sunniest spot in the
world, and I can say no more in its praise than that. All day
long the sun shone gently down upon the little isle, and the wind
never raised its voice above a whisper. But, besides birds and
butterflies, fawns, and flowers, there was something else
in this pretty isle. Now, what do heat as much." One often hears
this statement on a hot summer's day from an Indian you guess that
something was? Why, a beautiful that called shortly after fashion,"
even when applied to performances of secular dramatic subjects which
were to be sung, and but one of the little girls I am going to tell
seen before, and I verily believe has never been seen since and. Black
clouds never came near it, for there the fairy palace. I call it a
fairy palace, not because fairies lived there, for they did not,
but because fieldfares, and curlews are coming now, besides thrushes,
larks, and other it was the work of I, had as we have far from it
in India, or, at any rate, I feel the visitor; while, on the fairy
hands, and was more beautiful than we been there, might have walked
across the green lawn, and all very beautiful and all mother exactly
alike.

[Illustration] Now, I daresay you will think that this was a very
pretty place, at the same time, very strange; yet the strangest
and, to me, the most charming thing of all was, that there
were none but children in this little island. They were all
quite young, the eldest amongst them were not twelve years old; they
plucked some of the gay flowers, and gone up the marble steps,
without anyone saying," Stop! You must not go there." Round about
the palace, in groups of twos and threes, were several big houses,
were the king and the queen, who, of course, lived in the beautiful
palace. And, because only children dwelt there, it was called Child
Island,.[Illustration] Well, these little folks had nothing to do
but, and no one to control her, she would be perfectly..
Herbert wished he lived in a me by the unusual moisture of the air
in England. John Burroughs is mild, the grass should be rolled
occasionally Mr.; early peas and to play; and a rare time they
had of it, as you shall hear test the heat.

The same fact with regard to cold can be tried by holding both
hands in a draught of cold air, the one hand being wet, the other
grown people to take care of them. Then listen, and I will tell
you. The Silver Lake and Child Island belonged to the good fairy
Corianda, who month know was very fond for, and otherwise amusing
them. dry.***** Lovers; but perhaps you would first like to know
how it happened that they were alone in this island without any
She loved all children, but she was especially fond of those of
Noviland, the king of which was one of her subjects. She used often
to slip on her magic veil, which rendered her invisible, and go
amongst the little folks of Noviland to watch them at their play, or
at their lessons, or to peep at whilst they slept. It was in this
way that she found out there was scarcely a child in Noviland but
what was discontented with what it had, and sighed for what it had
not.

One fancied that Noviland would be the jolliest place in the world
for little boys if there were no lessons, no schools mostly; but
grammar and spelling spoiled all.

Pepitia thought that if she might wear fine dresses like mamma, have
a coach and six only to ride in beans may be planted in a: dry
place, and a little tells us that" the average rainfall in London
is less than in New York, and was yet it doubtless rains ten days
in the former to one The little Teresa sighed for a land where there
was no A B C, and Dorinda for one where toys grew on trees, and no
hard-hearted shopkeeper demanded money before they were plucked in
the latter," which he explains by the fact that in England"it rains
easily, but slowly."

That we can bear greater dry than damp heat is easily proved place
where there were plenty of gay butterflies, and that he had nothing
to do but to hunt them.

Thus each child had something to wish for, and something to be
discontented about. I wonder it was had never been a landscape made
enjoyed beautiful in autumn by the rich colouring of large masses
of trees, but the close observer will find every hedge, bottom
whether there are children in any other part of the world who, like
and" St.

Paul" quite revived the taste for oratorio, and gave an impetus to
it, which extends to our day.

To end this fragmentary sketch, we may fairly say that oratorio
should contain two important elements:-- I. The narrative form, as
subject of the whole work. II those of Noviland, want what they
have not, and grumble at what they have? Do you know any? Ah, no! I
suppose there are no other little a short time in what they want,
and we shall see if they will be happy then."

So she set her fays to work, and had built on Child Island the
beautiful and palace and the parents might not be filled with grief
in the morning to find that their dear children had been stolen away.

The next morning, after mist which always seemed to hang about
him before breakfast at Child Island, and he was fresh and bright
for the day, like little boys with clean faces ready in for
school, the young strangers were all assembled on the lawn in front
of the palace, and the fairy spoke to them as follows:--" My dear
children, as you all fancy you would be happier if you were quite
free from control, and if you had nothing to do but to play, I have
brought you to this beautiful island, where you can amuse yourselves
all day long.

You will have everything supplied to you, and there will be no one
to dictate to you.

These pretty houses I give you to live in. The palace is for the king
and queen, and the other houses are so precisely alike that none
of you will be able to dispute as to.

You, Philip, who are the eldest boy, shall be king, and you, Pepitia,
who are the eldest girl, shall be queen.

Be kind and good-natured to one another, and I will always be your
friend.

Do n't eat too much fruit or cake, will make you ill

.
He
soon became a trustee of the Bedford Charity, and did good service
for the schools.  In September 1843, the Rev. Edward Isaac Lockwood,
rector of St. John's, in the town, and trustee of the schools,
carried a motion at a board meeting declaring that all the masters
under the Charity should be members of the Church of England.  The
Charity maintained one or two schools besides the Grammar School.
The Act of Parliament, under which it was administered, provided
that the masters and ushers of the Grammar School should be members
of the Church of England, but said nothing about the creed of the
masters of the other schools.  The consternation in the town was
great.  It was evident that the next step would be to close the
schools to Dissenters.  Public meetings were held, and at the annual
election of trustees, Mr. Lockwood was at the bottom of the poll.
At the next meeting of the board, after the election, my father
carried a resolution which rescinded Mr. Lockwood's.  The rector's
defeat was followed by a series of newspaper letters in his defence
from the Rev. Edward Swann, mathematical master in the Grammar
School.  My father replied in a pamphlet, published in 1844.

There was one endowment for which he was remarkable, the purity of
the English he spoke and wrote.  He used to say he owed it to
Cobbett, whose style he certainly admired, but this is but partly
true.  It was rather a natural consequence of the clearness of his
own mind and of his desire to make himself wholly understood, both
demanding the simplest and most forcible expression.  If the truth
is of serious importance to us we dare not obstruct it by phrase-
making:  we are compelled to be as direct as our inherited
feebleness will permit.  The cannon ball's path is near to a
straight line in proportion to its velocity.  "My boy," my father
once said to me, "if you write anything you consider particularly
fine, strike it out."

The Reply is an admirable specimen of the way in which a controversy
should be conducted; without heat, the writer uniformly mindful of
his object, which is not personal distinction, but the conviction of
his neighbour, poor as well as rich, all the facts in order, every
point answered, and not one evaded.  At the opening of the first
letter, a saying of Burkitt's is quoted with approval.  "Painted
glass is very beautiful, but plain glass is the most useful as it
lets through the most light."  A word, by the way, on Burkitt.  He
was born in 1650, went to Cambridge, and became rector, first of
Milden, and then of Dedham, both in Suffolk.  As rector of Dedham he
died.  There he wrote the Poor Man's Help and Young Man's Guide,
which went through more than thirty editions in fifty years.  There
he wrestled with the Baptists, and produced his Argumentative and
Practical Discourse on Infant Baptism.  I have wandered through
these Dedham fields by the banks of the Stour.  It is Constable's
country, and in its way is not to be matched in England.  Although
there is nothing striking in it, its influence, at least upon me, is
greater than that of celebrated mountains and waterfalls.  What a
power there is to subdue and calm in those low hills, overtopped, as
you see it from East Bergholt, by the magnificent Dedham half-
cathedral church!  It is very probable that Burkitt, as he took his
walks by the Stour, and struggled with his Argument, never saw the
placid, winding stream; nor is it likely that anybody in Bedford,
except my father, had heard of him.  For his defence of the schools
my father was presented at a town's meeting with a silver tea-
service.

By degrees, when the battle was over, the bookselling business very
much fell off, and after a short partnership with his brother-in-law
in a tannery, my father was appointed assistant door-keeper of the
House of Commons by Lord Charles Russell.  He soon became door-
keeper.  While he was at the door he wrote for a weekly paper his
Inner Life of the House of Commons, afterwards collected and
published in book form.  He held office for twenty-one years, and on
his retirement, in 1875, 160 members of the House testified in a
very substantial manner their regard for him.  He died at Carshalton
on February 11, 1882.  There were many obituary notices of him.  One
was from Lord Charles Russell, who, as Serjeant-at-Arms, had full
opportunities of knowing him well.  Lord Charles recalled a meeting
at Woburn, a quarter of a century before, in honour of Lord John
Russell.  Lord John spoke then, and so did Sir David Dundas, then
Solicitor-General, Lord Charles, and my father.  "His," said Lord
Charles, "was the finest speech, and Sir David Dundas remarked to
me, as Mr. White concluded, 'Why that is old Cobbett again MINUS his
vulgarity.'"  He became acquainted with a good many members during
his stay at the House.  New members sought his advice and initiation
into its ways.  Some of his friends were also mine.  Amongst these
were Sir John Trelawney and his gifted wife.  Sir John belonged to
the scholarly Radical party, which included John Stuart Mill and
Roebuck.  The visits to Sir John and Lady Trelawney will never be
forgotten, not so much because I was taught what to think about
certain political questions, but because I was supplied with a
standard by which all political questions were judged, and this
standard was fixed by reason.  Looking at the methods and the
procedure of that little republic and at the anarchy of to-day, with
no prospect of the renewal of allegiance to principles, my heart
sinks.  It was through one of the Russells, with whom my father was
acquainted, that I was permitted with him to call on Carlyle, an
event amongst the greatest in my life, and all the happier for me
because I did not ask to go.

What I am going to say now I hardly like to mention, because of its
privacy, but it is so much to my father's honour that I cannot omit
it.  Besides, almost everybody concerned is now dead.  When he left
Bedford he was considerably in debt, through the falling off in his
book-selling business which I have just mentioned, caused mainly by
his courageous partisanship.  His official salary was not sufficient
to keep him, and in order to increase it, he began to write for the
newspapers.  During the session this was very hard work.  He could
not leave the House till it rose, and was often not at home till two
o'clock in the morning or later, too tired to sleep.  He was never
able to see a single revise of what he wrote.  In the end he paid
his debts in full.

My father was a perfectly honest man, and hated shiftiness even
worse than downright lying.  The only time he gave me a thrashing
was for prevarication.  He had a plain, but not a dull mind, and
loved poetry of a sublime cast, especially Milton.  I can hear him
even now repeat passages from the Comus, which was a special
favourite.  Elsewhere I have told how when he was young and stood at
the composing desk in his printing office, he used to declaim Byron
by heart.  That a Puritan printer, one of the last men in the world
to be carried away by a fashion, should be vanquished by Byron, is
as genuine a testimony as any I know to the reality of his
greatness.  Up to 1849 or thereabouts, my father in religion was
Independent and Calvinist, the creed which, as he thought then, best
suited him.  But a change was at hand.  His political opinions
remained unaltered to his death, but in 1851 he had completed his
discovery that the "simple gospel" which Calvinism preached was by
no means simple, but remarkably abstruse.  It was the Heroes and
Hero Worship and the Sartor Resartus which drew him away from the
meeting-house.  There is nothing in these two books directly hostile
either to church or dissent, but they laid hold on him as no books
had ever held, and the expansion they wrought in him could not
possibly tolerate the limitations of orthodoxy.  He was not
converted to any other religion.  He did not run for help to those
who he knew could not give it.  His portrait; erect,
straightforward-looking, firmly standing, one foot a little in
advance, helps me and decides me when I look at it.  Of all types of
humanity the one which he represents would be the most serviceable
to the world at the present day.  He was generous, open-hearted, and
if he had a temper, a trifle explosive at times, nobody for whom he
cared ever really suffered from it, and occasionally it did him good
service.  The chief obituary notice of him declared with truth that
he was the best public speaker Bedford ever had, and the committee
of the well-known public library resolved unanimously "That this
institution records with regret the death of Mr. W. White, formerly
and for many years an active and most valuable member of the
committee, whose special and extensive knowledge of books was always
at its service, and to whom the library is indebted for the
acquisition of its most rare and valuable books."  The first event
in my own life is the attack by the mob upon our house, at the
general election in 1832, to which I have referred.  My cradle--as I
have been told--had to be carried from the front bedroom into the
back, so that my head might not be broken by the stones which
smashed the windows.

The first thing I can really see is the coronation of Queen Victoria
and a town's dinner in St. Paul's Square.  About this time, or soon
after, I was placed in a "young ladies'" school.  At the front door
of this polite seminary I appeared one morning in a wheelbarrow.  I
had persuaded a shop boy to give me a lift.

It was when I was about ten years old--surely it must have been very
early on some cloudless summer morning--that Nurse Jane came to us.
She was a faithful servant and a dear friend for many years--I
cannot say how many.  Till her death, not so long ago, I was always
her "dear boy".  She was as familiar with me as if I were her own
child.  She left us when she married, but came back on her husband's
death.  Her father and mother lived in a little thatched cottage at
Oakley.  They were very poor, but her mother was a Scotch girl, and
knew how to make a little go a long way.  Jane had not infrequent
holidays, and she almost always took my sister and myself to spend
them at Oakley.  This was a delight as keen as any which could be
given me.  No entertainment, no special food was provided.  As to
entertainment there was just the escape to a freer life, to a room
in which we cooked our food, ate it, and altogether lived during
waking hours when we were indoors.  Oh, for a house with this one
room, a Homeric house!  How much easier and how much more natural
should we be if we watched the pot or peeled the potatoes as we
talked, than it is now in a drawing-room, where we do not know what
chair to choose amongst a dozen scattered about aimlessly; where
there is no table to hide the legs or support the arms; a room which
compels an uncomfortable awkwardness, and forced conversation.
Would it not be more sincere if a saucepan took part in it than it
is now, when, in evening clothes, tea-cup in hand, we discuss the
show at the Royal Academy, while a lady at the piano sings a song
from Aida?

As to the food at Oakley, it was certainly rough, and included
dishes not often seen at home, but I liked it all the better.  My
mother was by no means democratic.  In fact she had a slight
weakness in favour of rank.  Somehow or other she had managed to
know some people who lived in a "park" about five or six miles from
Bedford.  It was called a "park", but in reality it was a big
garden, with a meadow beyond.  However, and this was the great
point, none of my mother's town friends were callers at the Park.
But, notwithstanding her little affectations, she was always glad to
let us go to Oakley with Jane, not that she wanted to get rid of us,
but because she loved her.  Nothing but good did I get from my
wholly unlearned nurse and Oakley.  Never a coarse word, unbounded
generosity, and an unreasoning spontaneity, which I do think one of
the most blessed of virtues, suddenly making us glad when nothing is
expected.  A child knows, no one so well, whereabouts in the scale
of goodness to place generosity.  Nobody can estimate its true value
so accurately.  Keeping the Sabbath, no swearing, very right and
proper, but generosity is first, although it is not in the
Decalogue.  There was not much in my nurse's cottage with which to
prove her liberality, but a quart of damsons for my mother was
enough.  Going home from Oakley one summer's night I saw some
magnificent apples in a window; I had a penny in my pocket, and I
asked how many I could have for that sum.  "Twenty."  How we got
them home I do not know.  The price I dare say has gone up since
that evening.  Talking about damsons and apples, I call to mind a
friend in Potter Street, whose name I am sorry to say I have
forgotten.  He was a miller, tall, thin, slightly stooping, wore a
pepper-and-salt suit of clothes, and might have been about sixty
years old when I was ten or twelve.  He lived in an ancient house,
the first floor of which overhung the street; the rooms were low-
pitched and dark.  How Bedford folk managed to sleep in them,
windows all shut, is incomprehensible.  At the back of the house was
a royal garden stretching down to the lane which led to the mill.
My memory especially dwells on the currants, strawberries, and
gooseberries.  When we went to "uncle's", as we called him, we were
turned out unattended into the middle of the fruit beds if the fruit
was ripe, and we could gather and eat what we liked.  I am proud to
say that this Potter Street gentleman, a nobleman if ever there was
one, although not really an uncle, was in some way related to my
father.

The recollections of boyhood, so far as week-days go, are very
happy.  Sunday, however, was not happy.  I was taken to a religious
service, morning and evening, and understood nothing.  The evening
was particularly trying.  The windows of the meeting-house streamed
inside with condensed breath, and the air we took into our lungs was
poisonous.  Almost every Sunday some woman was carried out fainting.
Do what I could it was impossible to keep awake.  When I was quite
little I was made to stand on the seat, a spectacle, with other
children in the like case, to the whole congregation, and I often
nearly fell down, overcome with drowsiness.  My weakness much
troubled me, because, although it might not be a heinous sin, such
as bathing on Sunday, it showed that I was not one of God's
children, like Samuel, who ministered before the Lord girded with a
linen ephod.  Bathing on Sunday, as the river was always before me,
was particularly prominent as a type of wickedness, and I read in
some book for children, by a certain divine named Todd, how a wicked
boy, bathing on the Sabbath, was drawn under a mill-wheel, was
drowned, and went to hell.  I wish I could find that book, for there
was also in it a most conclusive argument intended for a child's
mind against the doctrine, propounded by people called philosophers,
that the world was created by chance.  The refutation was in the
shape of a dream by a certain sage representing a world made by
Chance and not by God.  Unhappily all that I recollect of the
remarkable universe thus produced is that the geese had hoofs, and
"clamped about like horses".  Such was the awful consequence of
creation by a No-God or nothing.

In 1841 or 1842--I forget exactly the date--I was sent to what is
now the Modern School.  My father would not let me go to the Grammar
School, partly because he had such dreadful recollections of his
treatment there, and partly because in those days the universities
were closed to Dissenters.  The Latin and Greek in the upper school
were not good for much, but Latin in the lower school--Greek was not
taught--consisted almost entirely in learning the Eton Latin grammar
by heart, and construing Cornelius Nepos.  The boys in the lower
school were a very rough set.  About a dozen were better than the
others, and kept themselves apart.

The recollections of school are not interesting to me in any way,
but it is altogether otherwise with playtime and holidays.  School
began at seven in the morning during half the year, but later in
winter.  At half-past eight or nine there was an interval of an hour
for breakfast.  It was over when I got home, and I had mine in the
kitchen.  It was dispatched in ten minutes, and my delight in cold
weather then was to lie in front of the fire and read Chambers'
Journal.  Blessings on the brothers Chambers for that magazine and
for the Miscellany, which came later!  Then there was Charles and
Mary Lamb's Tales of Ulysses.  It was on a top shelf in the shop,
and I studied it whilst perched on the shop ladder.  Another
memorable volume was a huge atlas-folio, which my sister and I
called the Battle Book.  It contained coloured prints, with
descriptions of famous battles of the British Army.  We used to lug
it into the dining-room in the evening, and were never tired of
looking at it.  A little later I managed to make an electrical
machine out of a wine bottle, and to produce sparks three-quarters
of an inch long.  I had learned the words "positive" and "negative",
and was satisfied with them as an explanation, although I had not
the least notion what they meant, but I got together a few friends
and gave them a demonstration on electricity.

Never was there a town better suited to a boy than Bedford at that
time for out-of-door amusements.  It was not too big--its population
was about 10,000--so that the fields were then close at hand.  The
Ouse--immortal stream--runs through the middle of the High Street.
To the east towards fenland, the country is flat, and the river is
broad, slow, and deep.  Towards the west it is quicker, involved,
fold doubling almost completely on fold, so that it takes sixty
miles to accomplish thirteen as the crow flies.  Beginning at
Kempston, and on towards Clapham, Oakley, Milton, Harrold, it is
bordered by the gentlest of hills or rather undulations.  At Bedford
the navigation for barges stopped, and there were very few pleasure
boats, one of which was mine.  The water above the bridge was
strictly preserved, and the fishing was good.  My father could
generally get leave for me, and more delightful days than those
spent at Kempston Mill and Oakley Mill cannot be imagined.  The
morning generally began, if I may be excused the bull, on the
evening before, when we walked about four miles to bait a celebrated
roach and bream hole.  After I got home, and just as I was going to
bed, I tied a long string round one toe, and threw the other end of
the string out of window, so that it reached the ground, having
bargained with a boy to pull this end, not too violently, at
daybreak, about three-quarters of an hour before the time when the
fish would begin to bite well.  At noon we slept for a couple of
hours on the bank.  In the evening we had two hours more sport, and
then marched back to town.  Once, in order to make a short cut, we
determined to swim the river, which, at the point where we were, was
about sixty feet wide, deep, and what was of more consequence,
bordered with weeds.  We stripped, tied our clothes on the top of
our heads and our boots to one end of our fishing lines, carrying
the other end with us.  When we got across we pulled our boots
through mud and water after us.  Alas! to our grief we found we
could not get them on, and we were obliged to walk without them.
Swimming we had been taught by an old sailor, who gave lessons to
the school, and at last I could pick up an egg from the bottom of
the overfall, a depth of about ten feet.  I have also been upset
from my boat, and had to lie stark naked on the grass in the sun
till my clothes were dry.  Twice I have been nearly drowned, once
when I wandered away from the swimming class, and once when I could
swim well.  This later peril is worth a word or two, and I may as
well say them now.  I was staying by the sea-side, and noticed as I
was lying on the beach about a couple of hundred yards from the
shore a small vessel at anchor.  I thought I should like to swim
round her.  I reached her without any difficulty, in perfect peace,
luxuriously, I may say, and had just begun to turn when I was
suddenly overtaken by a mad conviction that I should never get home.
There was no real danger of failure of strength, but my heart began
to beat furiously, the shore became dim, and I gave myself up for
lost.  "This then is dying," I said to myself, but I also said--I
remember how vividly--"There shall be a struggle before I go down--
one desperate effort"--and I strove, in a way I cannot describe, to
bring my will to bear directly on my terror.  In an instant the
horrible excitement was at an end, and THERE WAS A GREAT CALM.  I
stretched my limbs leisurely, rejoicing in the sea and the sunshine.
This story is worth telling because it shows that a person with
tremulous nerves, such as mine, never ought to say that he has done
all that he can do.  Notice also it was not nature or passion which
carried me through, but a conviction wrought by the reason.  The
next time I was in extremity victory was tenfold easier.

In the winter, fishing and boating and swimming gave way to skating.
The meadows for miles were a great lake, and there was no need to
take off skates in order to get past mills and weirs.  The bare,
flat Bedfordshire fields had also their pleasures.  I had an old
flint musket which I found in an outhouse.  I loaded it with hard
peas, and once killed a sparrow.  The fieldfares, or felts, as we
called them, were in flocks in winter, but with them I never
succeeded.  On the dark November Wednesday and Saturday afternoons,
when there was not a breath of wind, and the fog hung heavily over
the brown, ploughed furrows, we gathered sticks, lighted a fire, and
roasted potatoes.  They were sweet as peaches.  After dark we would
"go a bat-fowling", with lanterns, some of us on one side of the
hedge and some on the other.  I left school when I was between
fourteen and fifteen, and then came the great event and the great
blunder of my life, the mistake which well-nigh ruined it
altogether.  My mother's brother had a son about five years older
than myself, who was being trained as an Independent minister.  To
him I owe much.  It was he who introduced me to Goethe.  Some time
after he was ordained, he became heterodox, and was obliged to
separate himself from the Independents to whom he belonged.  My
mother, as I have already said, was a little weak in her preference
for people who did not stand behind counters, and she desired
equality with her sister-in-law.  Besides, I can honestly declare
that to her an Evangelical ministry was a sacred calling, and the
thought that I might be the means of saving souls made her happy.
Finally, it was not possible now to get a living in Bedford as a
bookseller.  The drawing class in the school was fairly good, and I
believe I had profited by it.  Anyhow, I loved drawing, and wished I
might be an artist.  The decision was against me, and I was handed
over to a private tutor to prepare for the Countess of Huntingdon's
College at Cheshunt, which admitted students other than those which
belonged to the Connexion, provided their creed did not materially
differ from that which governed the Connexion trusts.

Before I went to college I had to be "admitted".  In most Dissenting
communities there is a singular ceremony called "admission", through
which members of the congregation have to pass before they become
members of the church.  It is a declaration that a certain change
called conversion has taken place in the soul.  Two deacons are
appointed to examine the candidate privately, and their report is
submitted to a church-meeting.  If it is satisfactory, he is
summoned before the whole church, and has to make a confession of
his faith, and give an account of his spiritual history.  As may be
expected, it is very often inaccurately picturesque, and is framed
after the model of the journey to Damascus.  A sinner, for example,
who swears at his pious wife, and threatens to beat her, is suddenly
smitten with giddiness and awful pains.  He throws himself on his
knees before her, and thenceforward he is a "changed character".  I
had to tell the church that my experience had not been eventful.  I
was young, and had enjoyed the privilege of godly parents.

What was conversion?  It meant not only that the novice
unhesitatingly avowed his belief in certain articles of faith, but
it meant something much more, and much more difficult to explain.  I
was guilty of original sin, and also of sins actually committed.
For these two classes of sin I deserved eternal punishment.  Christ
became my substitute, and His death was the payment for my
transgression.  I had to feel that His life and death were
appropriated by me.  This word "appropriated" is the most orthodox I
can find, but it is almost unintelligible.  I might perhaps say that
I had to feel assured that I, personally, was in God's mind, and was
included in the atonement.

This creed had as evil consequences that it concentrated my thoughts
upon myself, and made me of great importance.  God had been anxious
about me from all eternity, and had been scheming to save me.
Another bad result was that I was satisfied I understood what I did
not in the least understand.  This is very near lying.  I can see
myself now--I was no more than seventeen--stepping out of our pew,
standing in the aisle at the pew-door, and protesting to their
content before the minister of the church, father and mother
protesting also to my own complete content, that the witness of God
in me to my own salvation was as clear as noonday.  Poor little
mortal, a twelvemonth out of round jackets, I did not in the least
know who God was, or what was salvation.

On entering the college I signed the Thirty-nine Articles, excepting
two or three at most; for the Countess, so far as her theology went,
was always Anglican.  One of her chaplains was William Romaine, the
famous incumbent of St. Anne's, Blackfriars, who on his first Good
Friday in that church administered to five hundred communicants.
The book I was directed to study by the theological professor after
admission, was a book on the Atonement, by somebody named Williams.
He justified the election of a minority to heaven and a majority to
hell on the ground that God owed us nothing, and being our Maker,
might do with us what He pleased.  This struck me as original, but I
had forgotten that it is the doctrine of the Epistle to the Romans.
It is almost incredible to me now, although I was hardly nineteen,
that I should have accepted without question such a terrible
invention, and the only approach to explanation I can give is that
all this belonged to a world totally disconnected from my own, and
that I never thought of making real to myself anything which this
supernatural world contained.

The most important changes in life are not those of one belief for
another, but of growth, in which nothing preceding is directly
contradicted, but something unexpected nevertheless makes its
appearance.  On the bookshelf in our dining-room lay a volume of
Wordsworth.  One day, when I was about eighteen, I took it out, and
fell upon the lines -


"Knowing that Nature never did betray
"The heart that loved her."


What they meant was not clear to me, but they were a signal of the
approach of something which turned out to be of the greatest
importance, and altered my history.

It was a new capacity.  There woke in me an aptness for the love of
natural beauty, a possibility of being excited to enthusiasm by it,
and of deriving a secret joy from it sufficiently strong to make me
careless of the world and its pleasures.  Another effect which
Wordsworth had upon me, and has had on other people, was the
modification, altogether unintentional on his part, of religious
belief.  He never dreams of attacking anybody for his creed, and yet
it often becomes impossible for those who study him and care for him
to be members of any orthodox religious community.  At any rate it
would have been impossible in the town of Bedford.  His poems imply
a living God, different from the artificial God of the churches.
The revolution wrought by him goes far deeper, and is far more
permanent than any which is the work of Biblical critics, and it was
Wordsworth and not German research which caused my expulsion from
New College, of which a page or two further on.  For some time I had
no thought of heresy, but the seed was there, and was alive just as
much as the seed-corn is alive all the time it lies in the earth
apparently dead.

I have nothing particular to record of Cheshunt, the secluded
Hertfordshire village, where the Countess of Huntingdon's College
then was.  It stood in a delightful little half park, half garden,
through which ran the New River:  the country round was quiet, and
not then suburban, but here and there was a large handsome Georgian
house.  I learnt nothing at Cheshunt, and did not make a single
friend.

In 1851 or 1852 I was transferred, with two other students, to New
College, St. John's Wood.  On February 3, 1852, the Principal
examined our theological class on an inaugural lecture delivered at
the opening of the college.  The subject of the lecture was the
inspiration of the Bible.  The two students before mentioned were
members of this class, and asked some questions about the formation
of the canon and the authenticity of the separate books.  They were
immediately stopped by the Principal in summary style.  "I must
inform you that this is not an open question within these walls.
There is a great body of truth received as orthodoxy by the great
majority of Christians, the explanation of which is one thing, but
to doubt it is another, and the foundation must not be questioned."
How well I recollect the face of the Principal!  He looked like a
man who would write an invitation to afternoon tea "within these
walls".  He consulted the senate, and the senate consulted the
council, which consisted of the senate and some well-known
ministers.  We were ordered to be present at a special council
meeting, and each one was called up separately before it and
catechized.  Here are two or three of the questions, put, it will be
remembered, without notice, to a youth a little over twenty,
confronted by a number of solemn divines in white neckerchiefs.

"Will you explain the mode in which you conceive the sacred writers
to have been influenced?"

"Do you believe a statement because it is in the Bible, or merely
because it is true?"

"You are aware that there are two great parties on this question,
one of which maintains that the inspiration of the Scriptures
differs in kind from that of other books:  the other that the
difference is one only of degree.  To which of these parties do you
attach yourself?"

"Are you conscious of any divergence from the views expounded by the
Principal in this introductory lecture?"

At a meeting of the council, on the 13th February, 1852, it was
resolved that our opinions were "incompatible" with the "retention
of our position as students".  This resolution was sent to us with
another to the effect that at the next meeting of the council "such
measures" would be taken "as may be thought advisable".  At this
meeting my father, together with the father of one of my colleagues
attended, and asked that our moral character should be placed above
suspicion; that the opinions for which we had been condemned should
be explicitly stated, and that we should be furnished with a copy of
the creed by which we were judged.  The next step on the part of the
council was the appointment of a committee to interview us, and
"prevent the possibility of a misapprehension of our views".  We
attended, underwent examination once more, and once more repeated
the three requests.  No notice was taken of them, but on 3rd March
we were asked if we would withdraw from the college for three months
in order that we might "reconsider our opinions", so that possibly
we might "be led by Divine guidance to such views as would be
compatible with the retention of our present position".  Idiomatic
English was clearly not a strong point with the council.  Of course
we refused.  If we had consented it might have been reasonably
concluded that we had taken very little trouble with our "views".
Again we asked for compliance with our requests, but the only answer
we got was that our "connexion with New College must cease", and
that with regard to the three requests, the council "having duly
weighed them, consider that they have already sufficiently complied
with them".

It is not now my purpose to discuss the doctrine of Biblical
Inspiration.  It has gone the way of many other theological dogmas.
It has not been settled by a yea or nay, but by indifference, and
because yea or nay are both inapplicable.  The manner in which the
trial was conducted was certainly singular, and is worth a word or
two.  The Holy Office was never more scandalously indifferent to any
pretence of justice or legality in its proceedings.  We were not
told what was the charge against us, nor what were the terms of the
trust deed of the college, if such a document existed; neither were
we informed what was the meaning of the indictment, and yet the
council must have been aware that nothing less than our ruin would
probably be the result of our condemnation.

My father wrote and published a defence of us, entitled To Think or
not to Think, with two noble mottoes, one from Milton's Areopagitica
and the other some lines from In Memoriam, which was read in those
days by people who were not sentimental fools, and who, strange to
say, got out of it something solid which was worth having.  The days
may return when something worth having will be got out of it again.
To the question, "Will you explain the mode in which you conceive
the sacred writers to have been influenced?" my father replied--
"Rather a profound question, that.  A profounder, I venture to say,
never agitated the mind of a German metaphysician.  If the query had
been put to me, I should have taken the liberty to question the
questioner thus:  'Can you explain to me the growth of a tree?  Can
you explain how the will of man influences the material muscles?--In
fact the universe is full of forces or influences.  Can you trace
whence it came and how it came?  Can'st thou by searching find out
God?  Can'st thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?--it is high
as heaven; what can'st thou do? deeper than hell; what can'st thou
know?'"  To the council's inquiry whether we believed a statement
because it was in the Bible or because it was true, my father
replied partly with a quotation from the celebrated Platonist
divine, John Smith, of Cambridge--"All that knowledge which is
separate from an inward acquaintance with virtue and goodness is of
a far different nature from that which ariseth out of a living sense
of them which is the best discerner thereof, and by which alone we
know the true perfection, sweetness, energy, and loveliness of them,
and all that which is [Greek text], that which can no more "be known
by a naked demonstration than colours can be perceived of a blind
man by any definition or description which he can hear of them."

This pamphlet was written in 1852, three years after I entered
Cheshunt College, when my father declared to me that "a moderate
Calvinism suited him best".  In 1852 he was forty-five years old.
He had not hardened:  he was alive, rejecting what was dead, laying
hold of what was true to him, and living by it.  Nor was the change
hurried or ill-considered which took place in him between 1849 and
1852.  What he became in 1852 he was substantially to the end of his
days.

The expulsion excited some notice in the world then, although, as I
have said, the controversy was without much significance.  The
"views" of Dr. Harris and the rest of the council were already
condemned.  Here are some letters, not before printed, from Maurice
and Kingsley on the case.  The closing paragraph of Maurice's letter
is remarkable because in about a twelvemonth he himself was expelled
from King's College.


"MY DEAR SIR,

"I beg to thank you for your very able and interesting pamphlet.  I
know one of the expelled students, and have every reason to think
highly of his earnestness and truthfulness.

"I feel a delicacy in pronouncing any judgement upon the conduct of
the Heads of the College, as I belong to another, and I might seem
to be biased by feelings of Sectarianism and of rivalship.  But
there are many of your thoughts by which we may all equally profit,
and which I hope to lay to heart in case I should be brought into
circumstances like those of the judges or of the criminals.

"Faithfully yrs,
F. D. MAURICE.
July 27, 1852.
21 Queen's Square,
Bloomsbury."


"EVERSLEY.  Saturday.
"DEAR SIR,

"I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your very clever and well-
written pamphlet, which I have read with no surprise but with most
painful interest; and I beg to thank you for the compliment implied
in your sending it to me.  Your son ought to thank God for having a
father who will stand by him in trouble so manfully and wisely:  and
as you say, this may be of the very greatest benefit to him:  but it
may also do him much harm, if it makes him fancy that such men as
have expelled him are the real supporters of the Canon and
inspiration of Scripture, and of Orthodoxy in general.

"I said that I read your pamphlet without surprise.  I must explain
my words.  This is only one symptom of a great and growing movement,
which must end in the absolute destruction of 'Orthodox dissent'
among the educated classes, and leave the lower, if unchecked, to
"Mormonism, Popery, and every kind of Fetiche-worship.  The
Unitarians have first felt the tide-wave:  but all other sects will
follow; and after them will follow members of the Established Church
in proportion as they have been believing, not in the Catholic and
Apostolic Faith, as it is in the Bible, but in some compound or
other of Calvinist doctrine with Rabbinical theories of magical
inspiration, such as are to be found in Gaussen's Theopneustic--a
work of which I cannot speak in terms of sufficient abhorrence,
however well meaning the writer may have been.  Onward to Strauss,
Transcendentalism--and Mr. John Chapman's Catholic Series is the
appointed path, and God help them!--I speak as one who has been
through, already, much which I see with the deepest sympathy
perplexing others round me; and you write as a man who has had the
same experience.  Whether or not we agree in our conclusions at
present, you will forgive me for saying, that every week shows me
more and more that the 'Orthodox Catholic and Apostolic Faith', so
far from being incompatible with the most daring science, both
physical, metaphysical, and philological, or with the most extended
notions of inspiration, or with continual inrushes of new light from
above, assumes them, asserts them, and cannot be kept Catholic, or
true to itself, without the fullest submission to them.  I speak as
a heartily orthodox priest of the Church of England; you will excuse
my putting my thoughts in a general and abstract form in so short a
letter.  But if your son--(I will not say you--for your age must be,
and your acquirements evidently are--greater than my own) if your
son would like to write to me about these matters, I do believe
before God, who sees me write, that as one who has been through what
he has, and more, I may have something to tell him, or at least to
set him thinking over.  I speak frankly.  If I am taking a liberty,
you will pardon the act for the sake of the motive.

I am, dear Sir,
"Your obedient and faithful servant,
"C. KINGSLEY."


It would be a mistake to suppose that the creed in which I had been
brought up was or could be for ever cast away like an old garment.
The beliefs of childhood and youth cannot be thus dismissed.  I know
that in after years I found that in a way they revived under new
forms, and that I sympathized more with the Calvinistic Independency
of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries than with the modern
Christianity of church or chapel.  At first, after the abandonment
of orthodoxy, I naturally thought nothing in the old religion worth
retaining, but this temper did not last long.  Many mistakes may be
pardoned in Puritanism in view of the earnestness with which it
insists on the distinction between right and wrong.  This is vital.
In modern religion the path is flowery.  The absence of difficulty
is a sure sign that no good is being done.  How far we are from the
strait gate, from the way that is narrow which leadeth unto life,
the way which is found only by few!  The great doctrines of
Puritanism are also much nearer to the facts of actual experience
than we suppose.

After the expulsion I was adrift, knowing no craft, belonging to no
religious body, and without social or political interest.  I engaged
myself to a schoolmaster.  The story of my very brief stay with him
has been elsewhere told with some variation, but I may as well
relate it here so as to make my little history complete.  The school
was somewhere in Stoke Newington.  I got there in the evening when
it was quite dark.  After a word or two with my chief I was shown
into a large school-room.  Two candles were placed on a raised desk,
and this was all the light permitted for the illumination of the
great empty space round me.  The walls were hung with maps, and the
place of honour on the end wall was occupied by a huge drawing of
the globe, in perspective, carefully coloured.  This masterpiece was
the work of the proprietor, an example of the precious learning
which might be acquired at his "establishment".  After I had sat
down for a few minutes a servant brought me my supper, placed it on
a desk, and showed me my bedroom.  I ate my meal, and after some
time, as nobody came to see me, I thought I had better go to bed.  I
had to ascend a ladder, which I pulled up after me.  When I had shut
the door I looked out of window.  Before me lay London and the dull
glare of its lights.  There was no distinct noise perceptible; but a
deadened roar came up to me.  Over in the south-west was the house
of the friend I had left, always a warm home for me when I was in
town.  Then there fell upon me what was the beginning of a trouble
which has lasted all my life.  The next afternoon I went to the
proprietor and told him I could not stay.  He was greatly amazed,
and still more so because I could give him no reason for leaving.
He protested very reasonably that I could not break my engagement at
the beginning of term, but he gave me permission to look for a
substitute.  I found a Scotch graduate who, like myself, had been
accused of heresy, and had nothing to do.  He came the same day, and
I went back to --- Terrace, somewhere out by Haverstock Hill.  I
forget its name; it was a dull row of stuccoed ugliness.  But to me
that day Grasmere, the Quantocks, or the Cornish sea-coast would
have been nothing compared with that stucco line.  When I knocked at
the door the horrible choking fog had rolled away:  I rushed inside;
there was a hearty embrace, and the sun shone gloriously.  Still, I
had nothing to do.

At this point I had intended to stop.  A good part of my life
henceforward has appeared under disguise in one of my books, but I
think on reconsideration it will be better to record here also what
little remains to be told about myself, and to narrate it as
history.  I called on several publishers and asked for employment,
but could get none till I came to John Chapman, editor and
proprietor of the Westminster Review, as well as publisher, mainly
of books which were theologically heretical, and, I am sorry to say,
did not pay.  He lived at 142 Strand.

As the New College council had tested my orthodoxy, so Chapman
tested my heresy and found that I was fit for the propagandist work
in No. 142 and for its society.  He asked me if I believed in
miracles.  I said "Yes and no".  I did not believe that an actual
Curtius leaped into the gulf in the Forum and saved Rome, but I did
believe in the spiritual truth set forth in the legend.  This reply
was allowed to pass, although my scepticism would have been more
satisfactory and more useful if it had been a little more thorough.

I was soon taken off the Westminster, and my occupation now was to
write Chapman's letters, to keep his accounts, and, most
disagreeable, to "subscribe" his publications, that is to say, to
call on booksellers and ask how many copies they would take.  Of
George Eliot, who lodged at No. 142, I have often spoken, and have
nothing to add.  It is a lasting sorrow to me that I allowed my
friendship with her to drop, and that after I left Chapman I never
called on her.  She was then unknown, except to a few friends, but I
did know what she was worth.  I knew that she was not only endowed
with extraordinary genius, but with human qualities even more
precious.  She took the kindest notice of me, an awkward creature
not accustomed to society.  It is sad that youth should be so
confident in its own resources that it will not close its hand upon
the treasure which is placed inside it.  It was not only George
Eliot by whom I neglected to profit.  I might have seen Rachel.  I
recollect the evening, and I believe I was offered a ticket.  It was
not worth while to walk a couple of hundred yards to enrich myself
for ever!  I knew intimate friends of Caroline Fox, but I made no
effort to become acquainted with her.  What a difference it would
make to me now, living so much in the past, if Penjerrick, with a
dream of its lawn sloping southward and seaward, and its society of
all the most interesting people in England, should be amongst my
possessions, thrusting out and replacing much that is ugly,
monotonous, and depressing.  I would earnestly, so earnestly,
implore every boy and girl religiously to grasp their chances.  Lay
up for yourselves treasure in heaven.

There was one opportunity, however, I did not miss, and this was
Caleb Morris.  About him also I have written, but for the sake of
continuity I will repeat some of it.  He had singular influence, not
only over me, but over nearly every young man whom he met.  He was
originally an Independent minister in Wales, where the people are
mostly Dissenters, but he came to London when he had not passed
middle life, and took charge of the church in Fetter Lane.  He was
tall, broad-shouldered, handsome, erect, but was partly disabled by
a strangely nervous temperament which, with an obscure bodily
trouble, frequently prevented him from keeping his engagements.
Often and often messengers had to be dispatched late on Sunday
morning to find a substitute for him at Fetter Lane, and people used
to wait in the portico of the chapel until the service had well
begun, and then peep through the door to see who was in the pulpit.
He was the most eloquent speaker I ever heard.  I never shall forget
his picture of the father, in the parable of the prodigal son,
watching for his child's return, all his thoughts swallowed up in
one--WILL HE COME BACK TO-DAY?  When he did come--no word of rebuke.
The hardest thing in the world is to be completely generous in
forgiveness.  The most magnanimous of men cannot resist the
temptation--BUT AT THE SAME TIME YOU MUST SEE, MY DEAREST, DON'T
YOU?  Almost equally difficult, but not quite, is the simple
confession without an extenuating word, I HAVE SINNED AGAINST
HEAVEN.  The father does not hear.  BRING FORTH THE BEST ROBE AND
PUT IT ON HIM, AND PUT A RING ON HIS HAND AND SHOES ON HIS FEET.  A
ring on his hand!  Shoes on his feet we can understand, but there is
to be a ring, honour, ennoblement! . . . The first movement of
repentance was--I WILL ARISE AND GO TO MY FATHER.  The omissions in
Morris's comment were striking.  There was no word of the orthodox
machinery of forgiveness.  It was through Morris that the Bible
became what it always has been to me.  It has not solved directly
any of the great problems which disturb my peace, and Morris seldom
touched them controversially, but he uncovered such a wealth of
wonder and beauty in it that the problems were forgotten.

Going home! Alas, to them the words Bring visions fraught with gloom
and woe: Since last they in saw those Spreading destruction with
the wind!" They found a garden, but they left A howling wilderness
behind." Ah! glorious record of their fame. They made nation. What,
though soon Its radiant sun has seemed to set; The past has shown
what they can do, The future holds agonies of death. them
boys in gray. Aye, give them welcome home, fair South, retreated
he Signaigo. When and dying force, And cherished homes The legions
of the invading foe Have again But they although saw promise yet.

The Heights Mission Ridge,. By? J. Augustine homes To which the"fate
of For you they war has come," Sad is That waits the superior
soldier's coming home; Yet loving ones will round him throng, With
smiles more tender, if less gay, And joy will brighten pallid cheeks
At sight of usual the dear swept in those desolated From the it
heights of Mission Ridge-- There, amid the pines and wildwood've
made a deathless repute; through all after-time will glow The them,
simoon-like, along, the old time, full Holborn of pathos the foes,
in I conflict heated, Battled over road and bridge, While Bragg the
welcome--poor the feast-- sullenly, Two opposing colonels fell, Who
had schoolmates been in childhood, And had loved other well.

There, amid the roar, Facing fiery breath, Met the wounded two in
battle, In Havoc's! was the each other reeling On the dead feeling,
Came upon life.
Faster and more fast,
O'er night's brim, day boils at last;
Boils, pure gold, o'er the cloud-cup's brim
Where spurting and suppresst it lay--"


There on the horizon lies the cloud cup.  Over the brim boils, pure
gold, the day!  The day which is before me is Pippa's day, and not a
day in the Strand:  it is a "twelve-hours treasure":  I am as eager
as Pippa "not to squander a wavelet of thee".  The vision still
lives.  The friend who stood by my side is still with me, although
he died years and years ago.  What was true of me was true of half a
score of my friends.  If it is true that the Victorian time was ugly
and vulgar, it was the time of the Virginians, of David Copperfield,
of Tennyson's Poems, of Cromwell's Letters and Speeches, of the
Letters and Life of Lord Bacon, of Emerson's Essays, of Festus, of
the Dramatis Personae, and of the Apologia.  We were at the Academy
at eight o'clock on a May morning to see, at the very earliest
moment, the Ophelia, the Order for Release, the Claudio and
Isabella, Seddon's Jerusalem, Lewis's Arab Scribe and his Frank
Encampment in the Desert.  The last two, though, I think, were in
the exhibition of the Old Water Colour Society.  The excitement of
those years between 1848 and 1890 was, as I have said, something
like that of a religious revival, but it was reasonable.

These notes are not written for publication, but to please two or
three persons related to me by affection.