Produced by David Starner, Bill Walker and PG Distributed Proofreaders


FOLK-TALES OF NAPOLEON

NAPOLEONDER
  From the Russian

THE NAPOLEON OF THE PEOPLE
  From the French of Honoré de Balzac


Translated With Introduction By
GEORGE KENNAN


1902


CONTENTS

NAPOLEONDER
THE NAPOLEON OF THE PEOPLE


INTRODUCTION

Most of the literature that has its origin in the life and career of a
great man may be grouped and classified under two heads: history and
biography. The part that relates to the man's actions, and to the
influence that such actions have had in shaping the destinies of peoples
and states, belongs in the one class; while the part that derives its
interest mainly from the man's personality, and deals chiefly with the
mental and moral characteristics of which his actions were the outcome,
goes properly into the other. The value of the literature included in
these two classes depends almost wholly upon truth; that is, upon the
precise correspondence of the statements made with the real facts of the
man's life and career. The gentlemen we pay you for it and begged
that he craves what they do is look, and the Inca said he told them to
what came, and then returned because he could lose time.

And they told him that what they had there [86] come, Rogalla was
saying they thought that when taking the tassel of the State, because
they felt that it was already time is that they give orders and wanted
to provide the needy This is for things that were necessary for the
feast é é é fasting ceremonies in that case had been longing to do.
É as the Inca hear this, they say that river and said that far, is
that his thoughts were far behind dello do theirs was way and they
went forward to yours too, the Dell; that this who do not spend
time with their thoughts on such a thing, because [a] them to know
that while his father lived, he did not intend to put this in your
head, because he thought that his father had to give this to your
tassel Inca Urco son after his days, which he thought írsela to
remove the head, is the head with it, the words that her father had
said, were that pisase insignia of the Inca Urco Chanca Uscovilca
that the loser, which is promised not to take such tassel while his
father lived, if not in that way, or if it was not his father came
to the city of Cuzco is the more he put his hand on her head; is
in this way, he acetaria.

The treatment of the supernatural may seem, to
Occidental readers, rather daring and irreverent, but it is perfectly in
harmony with the Russian peasant's anthropomorphic conception of Deity,
and should be taken with due allowance for the educational limitations
of the story-teller and his auditors. The Russian muzhik often brings
God and the angels into his folk-tales, and does so without the least
idea of treating them disrespectfully. He makes them talk in his own
language because he has no other language; and if the talk seems a
little grotesque and irreverent, it is due to the low level of the
narrator's literary culture, and not to any intention, on his part, of
treating God and the angels with levity. The whole aim of the story is a
moral and religious one. The narrator is trying to show that sympathy
and mercy are better than selfish ambition, and that war is not only
immoral but irrational. The conversation between God, the angels, and
the Devil is a mere prologue, intended to bring Napoleon and Ivan-angel
on the stage and lay the foundation of the plot. The story-teller's keen
sense of fun and humor is shown in many little touches, but he never
means to be irreverent. The whole legend is set forth in the racy,
idiomatic, highly elliptical language of the common Russian muzhik, and
is therefore extremely difficult of translation; but I have tried to
preserve, as far as possible, the spirit and flavor of the original.

The French story was first reduced to writing--or at least put into
literary form--by Honoré de Balzac, and appeared under the title of "The
Napoleon of the People" in the third chapter of Balzac's "Country
Doctor." It purports to be the story of Napoleon's life and career as
related to a group of French peasants by one of his old soldiers--a man
named Goguelat. It covers more time chronologically than the Russian
story does, and deals much more fully and circumstantially with
historical incidents and events: but it seems to me to be distinctly
inferior to the Russian tale in power of creative imagination, unity of
conception, skill of artistic treatment, and depth of human interest.
The French peasant regards Napoleon merely as a great leader and
conqueror, "created to be the father of soldiers," and aided, if not
directly sent, by God, to show forth the power and the glory of France.
The Russian peasant, more thoughtful by nature as well as less excitable
and combative in temperament, admits that Napoleon was sent on earth by
God, but connects him with one of the deep problems of life by using him
to show the divine nature of sympathy and pity, and the cruelty,
immorality, and unreasonableness of aggressive war. The only feature
that the two tales have in common is the recognition of the supernatural
as a controlling factor in Napoleon's life. The French peasant believes
that he had a guiding star; that he was advised and directed by a
familiar spirit in the shape of a "Red Man"; and that he was saved from
dangers and death by virtue of a secret compact with the Supreme Being.
The Russian peasant asserts that he was created by the Devil, and that
God, after having given him a soul by accident, first used him as a
means of punishing the Russian people for their sins, and then made him
really a man by inspiring him with the human feelings of sympathy and
compassion. In the French story Napoleon appears as a great military
leader, whose life and career reflect honor and glory upon France. In
the Russian story he is merely the leading actor in a sort of moral
drama, or historical mystery-play, intended to show the divine nature of
sympathy and compassion, the immorality of war, and the essential
solidarity and brotherhood of all mankind.

GEORGE KENNAN.

       *       *       *       *       *


NAPOLEONDER[1]

[Footnote 1: The Russian peasant's name for Napoleon Bonaparte. The
final syllable "der" has perhaps been added because to the ear of the
peasant "Napoleon" sounds clipped and incomplete, as "Alexan" would
sound to us without the "der."]

Long ago--but not so very long ago; our grandfathers remember it--the
Lord God wanted to punish the people of the world for their wickedness.
So he began to think how and by what means he could punish them, and he
called a council of his angels and archangels to talk about it. Says the
archangel Michael to the Lord God: "Shake them up, the recreants, with
an earthquake."

"We've tried that," says the Lord God. "Once upon a time we jolted to
pieces Sodom and Gomorrah, but it didn't teach them anything. Since then
pretty much all the towns have become Sodoms and Gomorrahs."

"How about famine?" says the archangel Gabriel.

"It would be too bad for the babies," replies the Lord God. "Famine
would kill the babies. And, besides that, the cattle must have
food--they're not to blame."

"Drown them with a flood," suggests Raphael.

"Clean impossible!" says the Lord God. "Because, in the first place, I
took an oath once that there should be no more floods, and I set the
rainbow in the sky for an assurance. In the second place, the rascally
sinners have become cunning; they'll get on steamboats and sail all over
the flood."

Then all the archangels were perplexed, and began to screw about in
their seats, trying to invent or think of some calamity that would bring
the wicked human race to its senses and stir up its conscience. But they
had been accustomed, time out of mind, to do good rather than evil; they
had forgotten all about the wickedness of the world; and they couldn't
think of a single thing that would be of any use.

Then suddenly up comes Ivan-angel, a simple-minded soul whom the Lord God
had appointed to look after the Russian muzhiks. He comes up and
reports: "Lord, Satan is outside there, asking for you. He doesn't dare
to come in, because he smells bad [Footnote 2: That is, he brings with
him the sulphurous odor of hell.]; so he's waiting in the entry."

Then the Lord God was rejoiced. "Call Satan in!" he ordered. "I know
that rogue perfectly well, and he has come in the very nick of time. A
scamp like that will be sure to think of something."

Satan came in. His face was as black as tanned calfskin, his voice was
hoarse, and a long tail hung down from under his overcoat.

"If you so order," he says, "I'll distribute your calamities for you
with my own hands."

"Go ahead with your distribution," says the Lord God; "nobody shall
hinder you."

"Will you permit me," Satan says, "to bring about an invasion of
foreigners?"

The Lord God shook his finger at Satan and cried: "Is that all you can
think of? And you so wise!"

"Excuse me," Satan says. "Why doesn't my plan show wisdom?"

"Because," replies the Lord God, "you propose to afflict the people with
war, and war is just what they want. They're all the time fighting among
themselves, one people with another, and that's the very thing I want to
punish them for."

"Yes," says Satan, "they re greedy for war, but that's only because they
have never yet seen a real warrior. Send them a regular conqueror, and
they'll soon drop their tails between their legs and cry, 'Have mercy,
Lord! Save us from the man of blood!'"

The Lord God was surprised. "Why do you say, my little brother, that the
people have never seen a real warrior? The Tsar Herod was a conqueror;
the Tsar Alexander subdued a wonderful lot of people; Ivan-Tsar
destroyed Kazan; Mamai-Tsar the furious came with all his hordes; and
the Tsar Peter, and the great fighter Anika--how many more conquerors do
you want?"

"I want Napoleonder," says Satan.

"Napoleonder!" cries the Lord God. "Who's he? Where did he come from?"

"He's a certain little man," Satan says, "who may not be wise enough to
hurt, but he's terribly fierce in his habits."

The Lord God says to the archangel Gabriel: "Look in the Book of Life,
Gabriel, and see if we've got Napoleonder written down."

The archangel looked and looked, but he couldn't look up any such
person.

"There isn't any kind of Napoleonder in the Book," he says. "Satan is a
liar. We haven't got Napoleonder written down anywhere."

Then Satan replies: "It isn't strange that you can't find Napoleonder in
the Book of Life, because you write in that Book only the names of those
who were born of human fathers and mothers, and who have navels.
Napoleonder never had a father or a mother, and, moreover, he hasn't any
navel--and that's so surprising that you might exhibit him for money."

The Lord God was greatly astonished. "How did your Napoleonder ever get
into the world?" he says.

"In this way," Satan replies. "I made him, as a doll, just for
amusement, out of sand. At that very time, you, Lord, happened to be
washing your holy face; and, not being careful, you let a few drops of
the water of life splash over. They fell from heaven right exactly on
Napoleonder's head, and he immediately took breath and became a man. He
is living now, not very near nor very far away, on the island of Buan,
in the middle of the ocean-sea. There is a little less than a verst of
land in the island, and Napoleonder lives there and watches geese. Night
and day he looks after the geese, without eating, or drinking, or
sleeping, or smoking; and his only thought is--how to conquer the whole
world."

The Lord God thought and thought, and then he ordered: "Bring him to
me."

Satan at once brought Napoleonder into the bright heaven. The Lord God
looked at him, and saw that he was a military man with shining buttons.

"I have heard, Napoleonder," says the Lord God, "that you want to
conquer the whole world."

"Exactly so," replies Napoleonder; "that's what I want very much to
do."

"And have you thought," says the Lord God, "that when you go forth to
conquer you will crush many peoples and shed rivers of blood?"

"That's all the same to me," says Napoleonder; "the important thing for
me is--how can I subdue the whole world."

"And will you not feel pity for the killed, the wounded, the burned, the
ruined, and the dead?"

"Not in the least," says Napoleonder. "Why should I feel pity? I don't
like pity. So far as I can remember, I was never sorry for anybody or
anything in my life, and I never shall be."

Then the Lord God turns to the angels and says: "Messrs. Angels, this
seems to be the very fellow for our business." Then to Napoleonder he
says: "Satan was perfectly right. You are worthy to be the instrument of
my wrath, because a pitiless conqueror is worse than earthquake, famine,
or deluge. Made his seed, and regocijábanse Mango Capac holgábanse and
Alcaviza in good friendship and contentment. _CAP.

V. - In which discusses how he died Ayar Auca, companion Mango
Capac, and how there was a child Mango Capac, who was called Sinchi
Rock [8] is how Mango Capac died, and how he died after that Alcaviza
after; and the lords of this happened until Sinchi Roca Inca
Viracocha, and the cases and things that occurred in the times of
these Inca._ Shop Viracocha to two years there came Mango Capac,
Ayar Auca his partner died and the woman was in the company of other
Mango Capac, without it there hobiese Ayar Auca any child, and
anxiety, Mango Capac left alone with his wife and three of his
companions and said, without having to do with any Dellas for about
tenella by women themselves, but with his own, at which time there
was little more graphical a son, whom he called Sinchi Roca.

And being Sinchi Roca man and up to fifteen or sixteen years, his father
died Mango Capac, while another child but this was Sinchi Roca. É graphical
died five years Mango Capac, died Alcaviza. And as was already twenty
years old this Sinchi Roca, son of Mango Capac, used by a woman
called Mama Coca lady, the daughter of a Lord of a village chief
quest a league of Cuzco, which is called ZANU, which was Mrs Sinchi a son
named Roca Lloque Yupanqui.

This Lloque Yupanqui was born with teeth, and then he was born, walked,
and never wanted to breastfeed, and then spoke of things admiration,
which I must have another parescer Merlin, as the fables say.

And an eagerness born like this, he took a stone in their hands and Tyrol
descendant of another boy Alcaviza that this was happening there, which
was on a water fountain with a bowl in his hands, from which stone
Lloque Yupanqui The baby, the boy broke his leg in Alcaviza already
mentioned, which if the soothsayers said that this fall, that would
be great Yupanqui Lloque Gentlemen and señorearian the people and
the descendants of those evicted would Alcaviza of the people by
the descendants of Lloque Yupanqui, which they did, as history will
tell ahead, as it said the reason given dello.

And because this Lloque Yupanqui did questa most remarkable things
already said, lived in the time you leave. And the day after it happened
in a place of his son, called Capac Yupanqui, which is said to have
no sought [9] to be more Yupanqui Lloque his father left him. And the
day after it happened in a place his son was said Mayta Capac,
which they say have not tried to be more than their past.

And the day after it happened in a place that was said of his son
Inca Roca Inca, which they say have been six women who had thirty
sons and daughters.

And after days of this, it happened in his place his son and a couple
of others, called Yaguas Guacac Inca Yupanqui.

Deste say was crying blood, and that's why he was called Yaguas
Guacac, they say, blood mourn. Deste say they had twenty women, in which
there were fifty sons and daughters, which have tried to say no more be
left to its past. And after days of this, it happened in a place they
call his son Viracocha Inca, because was very friendly and affable to
his and the great stillness reigned in, always giving gifts and making
grants. And as he was anxious, amábanle with his strong will, and one
day got up in the morning, went to his happy, and asking them what
it rejoiced, saying they responded that the Viracocha Pachayachachic
she had spoken that night , saying that God had spoken that night
(_así_) and then lifted them, and they all called it Inca Viracocha,
which means _Rey and Dios_ and then was appointed the name.

_CAP. VI .-- Which is about how there were many gentlemen in the
roundness of Cuzco, which was titled, kings and lords in the provinces
where they were, is how these arose from a Lord who called Chanca
Uscovilca, is how he made war and their masters to the other
gentlemen, is the subject, how wine is on Cuzco, Viracocha Inca
tiniendo news, is how Viracocha Inca invited him to obedience, then
it is off to a Penol Viracocha Inca, carrying all At the time of
this ciudad._ Viracocha Inca lords had over two hundred chieftains
of villages and provinces, fifty and sixty miles in the city of
Cuzco desta roundness, which are named and names in their fields
and villages Capac Inca, who wants _Señores é reyes_ say, and the
same to this Viracocha Inca, é intitulábase, as above diximos, God,
where were the other gentlemen and those who are entitled to be
that no more dell.

And as a Lord dest, Chanca nation, which said Uscovilca, who was lord
of a lot of great people and was very captains seys courageous, his
subjects, who were called Malmö [10], and Rapa, and Yanavilca [ 11],
and another Teclovilca, Guamanguaraca and another and another
Tomayguaraca and this Uscovilca, as news had resided in Cuzco Inca
Viracocha and is entitled to greater man he is the most powerful
people of the Lord is entitled to all the earth, unhappy to see
what was the Inca Viracocha, and to see that, this being Uscovilca
in the village of Paucaray [12], which is three miles away from
Park, entered into consultation with them what order to take debiesen
this fact, and seeing that his power was great, agreed in their
agreement that their masters should be to discover the parts of
provinces Condesuyo é, é ansímismo by Andesuyo as part of it, and
he ansímismo with two captains yours and the people he has left,
whether by means of these two provinces the right to the city of
Cuzco, which highlighted serious Lord of the whole earth, and he
of his hand sujetaria á Viracocha Inca.

And craves, left his line and hobo desque out, that one day he brought
together all his people in that place is plain Paucaray [13], where
he was a natural and ansi gathered all his day to I was commanded.

And he craves being together, commanded his captains that all three
parties that make people, and already being made of three sections
and parts, mandola supply of weapons to all that were cast, and
halberd axes and batons and slingshots and ayllos and buckler, of
which, being already provided for this need, mandola provide
maintenance for many of its path, like dried meat, and corn, and
dried fish and other foods, making them the grace and mercy of all
the spoils that the War hobiesen livestock, clothes and gold and
silver pieces and other women é é Anacona yearning hobiesen in war.

And some of these people being the masters of their own, which they
called Malmö Irapa and [14], which is then sent to parties and they
were conquered by the province of Condesuyo far found no people who
could win.

And these were anxious as these two masters, bringing people and
such, and while taking off from the Lord, great thanks and praise
diéronle crave masters like other people, by the mercy which was
made of the spoils.

Y ansi were conquering these two masters and Malmö Irapa Condesuyo by
province, bringing great power of people, and so was the fortune of
these two masters, who won is going desdel subject Paucaray people
of the province of Condesuyo, up to those fifty leagues beyond the
Charcas. let these masters and talk about the other two ansímismo
Uscovilca invited to the party Andesuyo, which are called Yana Toquello
Vilca Vilca and [15], to which they give as their Lord Uscovilca another
part of the people left there Paucaray, to which, since I was ordered
by Uscovilca did not arrive at Cuzco by ten miles, but sections of the
pass, because the company that wanted Uscovilca Cuzco for himself. And
anxiety, these two captains are away, putting the province Condesuyo,
winning and conquering provinces up to Chiriguanos, where we will stop
and discuss Uscovilca.

Which, as before hobiese its four captains in the way that you have heard
and had [16] for his great desire to hold the person is going to Cuzco
and Viracocha Inca, taking the third part of other people who were
leaving their land and people with the necessary collection and
save, so if any on It came back to warn you in his care and repair -
and anxiety, and provided this is done already, it was with his
people, and bringing its two captains, is demand for Viracocha Inca.

Which was very quiet for fear that, because he was not to wage war on
anyone or sought to remove or take anyone along. And ANSI desta war
still on it came, came to him two messengers to invia
Uscovilca for which invia you would say that obedience to the Lord
that was where, which is gear, quel was going to make war, he thought
dalle é é sujetalle battle, it was to know in quel Vilcacunga, which
is seven miles the city of Cuzco, and it would be well short with
him.

And as Viracocha Inca saw such that the embassy will Uscovilca
winters, and they had great power, and all that he left behind was
subject inviolable say it will give placia of obidiencia and wanted
to eat and drink he.

And who were these messengers out of the city of Cuzco with the embassy
of Viracocha Inca, he put together his major and went into the agreement
to see what they should do, because it was so short of couriers
Uscovilca, which did not give rise to with his take on what appears
to be responding, and anxiety, what you hear said, and then came
[17] and it was considered that Uscovilca came with great power of
people coming and arrogant and, giving it ansi so easily, that would
be taken in a little, and agreed to capitulate with the best things
that matter most to its conservation, and even if they are subjective,
not easily be as much as if taking place - is to leave the city
stress Viracocha in Cuzco on all people of the city, and with more
of the comarcanos wanted to follow them, move to a seven-league
quest Penol desta city of Cuzco, on top of a town that is said
Calca, which is strong and Penol Caca Xaqui Xahuana flame [18].

Viracocha Inca at this time had seven children, had a less than all
of them, which was called Inca Yupanqui, and at that time wanted
to leave Viracocha Inca of Cuzco, the Inca Yupanqui child , though
smaller, was man of great presumption and a man who had much in his
person, and to sound bad that his father Viracocha Inca to desmamparar
of its people and we want to subjetacion, and had been offered,
seemed that it was wrong case and a great shame for the people who
have Desto news and seeing questa agreed to by his father and the
other lords of Cuzco is out, it assumed not to go into it and
together the people who could, and since Uscovilca came, he did not
give such obidiencia but dying to tell who lived in subjecion and
that perchance could gather so many people and their venture to be
such that expires Uscovilca and libertarian ansi is its people.

And assuming that ansi thought, was looking Three men, sons of gentlemen
and friends, and children of those gentlemen with whom his father
had been in consultation to go out and give allegiance to Chanca,
- names of which man was the one Vica Quirao [19] and Apo Mayta
another, and another Quilescachi Urco Guaranga - Inca Yupanqui and
joining with these three gentlemen man, consulted with them what I
had thought, and he said that before we would have had to assume
and Holger receive death, that no live in such subjecion and infamy,
not having been born subjects.

And being together all four ansi, the man that loose Inca Yupanqui what
they say, is diéronle word of what he would do and be all of four
and a review parescer, Salia Viracocha Inca and the city for carrying
Penol the people of Cuzco, and most of comarcanos he could carry.

Inca Yupanqui and man and these three gentlemen, quedáronse in each
city with two servants who wanted to stay with them, which they
called Pata Yupanqui bred and Muru Uanca [20] and Apo Yupanqui,
Uxuta Urco Guaranga, which were alone, that no other person was
with them most of these servants his.

And as seen by his son Viracocha Inca Yupanqui Inca kept that way, and
did much Riós case, because it took her six children, and with them the
greatest and most beloved of his, whose name was Inca Urco, who thought
leave the place and name of person. _CAP. VII .-- On and after dealing
Inca Yupanqui left in the city, his messengers to invite Uscovilca
Viracocha Inca knew as to who had retracted Penol and how ansimismo,
Inca Yupanqui known that he stayed in the city and to that end
stayed, and how he invited his messengers ansímismo the Inca Yupanqui,
Inca Yupanqui sent and how to seek relief from his father and the
other provinces around the city, and all between them pasó._ who
was known by the chanca Uscovilca what he had done Viracocha Inca,
he agreed to send him a captain who said Guaman Guaraca for Viracocha
Inca to the conclusion that you, well you have paresciese; which
captain came, and the Inca Viracocha was very well received in Penol
was dó.

And before this Uscovilca á captain by Viracocha Inca, he knew how it
had been in Cuzco Inca Yupanqui and with those three gentlemen, and
each will serve as a servant and to die is not subjective; known and
this Uscovilca by new, holgóse lot, because you paresció, which expires
at the Inca Yupanqui, the son of Viracocha Inca and the three
gentlemen who were with him, who could win, and more on them inside
in Cuzco, venia á dondél direction.

And a captain of this Uscovilca called Tomay Guaraca, known for
this purpose of the new Inca Yupanqui, Uscovilca called upon his
Lord, grant that would desta company quel wanted to go to Cuzco and turn
and kill the Inca Yupanqui and that it were. And Uscovilca replied that
such a business as that, who wanted to do, and that he wanted his hand
away, and then invited him to a messenger á Inca Yupanqui, which
invited him to say that you know much loose that he wanted to prove
his strength and spirit of man, which he and his dressings that
were with him, that there are three months wanted to go to do with
it, why it does not complain, I wanted to give space three months
so that it could do better, and dressing ansi same weapons and
people who paresciese.

Because, as Uscovilca hobiese known that the Inca Viracocha had
left, fleeing the city of Cuzco, and brought all his people, and
that could lead to other peoples comarcanos to the city of Cuzco,
this was not to Uscovilca Inca Yupanqui anyone come to that party
would resist the power that he brought.

Inca Yupanqui and seen by what he said invia Uscovilca, "said quel fighting
was to die before being subjective by quel born free and had sir, and
if his father gave obidiencia, that could give themselves and for those
who it was there in the Peñol do was, and he was not in it, but if
he was to be Lord of Cuzco is entitled to such, that he fought with and
defeated, Terni such nombradía and that is comfortable to his father
hobiese desmamparado the city of Cuzco and left it, and it will render
opinions, which Cuzco never had done this or been defeated by
anyone, since he founded the Mango Capac.

And heard their embassy and response is left Cuzco, and went to his
Lord Uscovilca, which was loose at that time with the gentleman who brought
with him, there in the seat Vilcacunga and Uscovilca heard by the
response that you invia Inca Yupanqui with his messenger, della holgóse,
because I thought success in Cuzco, as I have heard. The Change [21]
entered into its agreement with the three gentlemen who had it, and agreed
to invest a messenger to his father Inca Viracocha, which invia him to
say, look at the disgrace that came to Cuzco and had never been
subjects from which it had inhabited Mango Capac; parescia it, if he
paresciese, due to defend his city, and that does not allow is still
being said that such a thing hobiese desmanparado his people, and
then be given and surrendered to its enemies, who came to his city,
he promised, as his son who was dying in front of him, if the urge
again and defendella by quel budget was that the dying will tell
subjects that had been left was born to be lord and freedom.

And then he was one of four young men that there had to be told that the
embassy already carried You have heard, which is messenger departed
and arrived where Viracocha Inca, and he said its embassy from Inca
Yupanqui.

By Viracocha Inca and heard what his son invia say much about the
criteria of an embassy and said: "Being a man that I communicate and
talk with God, and he knows I have been advised that I am not
party to resist Uscovilca, warned me to be anxious and I left Cuzco
to better able to command how Uscovilca do not disgrace me and to
my own abuse, and that guy wants to die and Inca Yupanqui assumed
that I was wrong agreed?

decilde Come back to me and its river mocedad and that he was coming
and that it is yours, and if you do not want to do, I weigh,
because my son and want to develop a way to die. "The messenger replied
to these words that you said Viracocha Inca, that his Mr budget had
it, and that in no way left to die or conquer it, and those with
him before coming in subjecion.

And it answered Viracocha Inca, who were then, and since that was the
opinion of his master and will own, that pelease and make all its
power, it had to be quentendia the end of their battle, it would be a
prisoner é dead boy and understanding, is that they tell their masters,
quel not go there and thought that in no way makes him such winters
with embassy. This is heard by the messenger, it was your answer to
where his master was, and that was reached, he said that his father
Inca Viracocha invia him to say in response to your message. All this
by ear Inca Yupanqui, rescibió spite of this response, because her
father thought that some winter relief, and seeing as the quest
comarcanos of people around the city of Cuzco Inca Viracocha his
father with him socorria some favor and help, that same yearning
for him and would attend such comarcanos.

And being so sad for him and his people what they already have heard,
which was well parescióle invia their messengers to the chiefs of the
peoples comarcanos, letting them know the need in there and how invia
questa his messengers to his father, who did not invia loved him
no relief, they prayed to him with their powers and favoresciesen
people.

Now God
has given you time for repentance. In this world you shall be punished;
but there, beyond, if you repent of your sins, you shall be forgiven."

And the angel vanished.

Then our Don Cossacks fell on Napoleonder, dragged him from his horse,
and took him to Alexander the Blessed. Some said, "Napoleonder ought to
be shot!" Others cried, "Send him to Siberia to!" But the Lord God
softened the heart of Alexander the Blessed, and the merciful Tsar would
not allow Napoleonder to be shot or sent to Siberia. He ordered that the
great conqueror be put into an iron cage, and be carried around and
exhibited to the people at country fairs. So Napoleonder was carried
from one fair to another for a period of thirty summers and three
years--until he had grown quite old. Then, when he was an old man, they
sent him to the island of Buan to watch geese.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE NAPOLEON OF THE PEOPLE[1]

[Footnote 1: A story told to a group of French peasants one evening, in
a barn, by Goguelat, the village postman, who had served under Napoleon
in a regiment of infantry.]

Napoleon, my friends, was born, you know, in Corsica. That's a French
island, but it's warmed by the sun of Italy, and everything's as hot
there as if it were a furnace. It's a place, too, where the people kill
one another, from father to son, generation after generation, for
nothing at all; that is, for no reason in particular except that it's
their way.

Well, to begin with the most wonderful part of the story, it so
happened that on the very day when Napoleon was born, his mother dreamed
that the world was on fire. She was a shrewd, clever woman, as well as
the prettiest woman of her time; and when she had this dream, she
thought she'd save her son from the dangers of life by dedicating him to
God. And, indeed, that was a prophetic dream of hers! So she asked God
to protect the boy, and promised that when he grew up he should
reestablish God's holy religion, which had then been overthrown. That
was the agreement they made; and although it seems strange, such things
have happened. It's sure and certain, anyhow, that only a man who had an
agreement with God could pass through the enemy's lines, and move about
in showers of bullets and grape-shot, as Napoleon did. They swept us
away like flies, but his head they never touched at all. I had a proof
of that--I myself, in particular--at Eylau, where the Emperor went up on
a little hill to see how things were going. I can remember, to this day,
exactly how he looked as he took out his field-glass, watched the battle
for a minute, and finally said: "It's all right! Everything is going
well." Then, just as he was coming back, an ambitious chap in a plumed
hat, who was always following him around, and who bothered him, they
said, even at his meals, thought he'd play smart by going up on the very
same hill; but he had hardly taken the Emperor's place when--batz!--away
he went, plume and all!

Now follow me closely, and tell me whether what you are going to hear
was natural.

Napoleon, you know, had promised that he'd keep his agreement with God
to himself. That's the reason why his companions and even his particular
friends--men like Duroc, Bessières, and Lannes, who were strong as bars
of steel, but whom he molded to suit his purposes--all fell, like nuts
from a shaken tree, while he himself was never even hurt.

But that's not the only proof that he was the child of God and was
expressly created to be the father of soldiers. Did anybody ever see him
a lieutenant? Or a captain? Never! He was commander-in-chief from the
start. When he didn't look more than twenty-four years of age he was
already an old general--ever since the taking of Toulon, where he first
began to show the rest of them that they didn't know anything about the
handling of cannon.

Well, soon after that, down comes this stripling to us as
general-in-chief of the Army of Italy--an army that hadn't any
ammunition, or bread, or shoes, or coats; a wretched army--naked as a
worm. "Now, boys!" he said, "here we are, all together. I want you to
get it fixed in your heads that in fifteen days more you 're going to be
conquerors. You're going to have new clothes, good leggings, the best of
shoes, and a warm overcoat for every man; but in order to get these
things you'll have to march to Milan, where they are." So we marched. We
were only thirty thousand bare-footed tramps, and we were going against
eighty thousand crack German soldiers--fine, well equipped men; but
Napoleon, who was only Bonaparte then, breathed a spirit of--I don't
know what--into us, and on we marched, night and day. We hit the enemy
at Montenotte, thrashed 'em at Rivoli, Lodi, Arcola, and Millesimo, and
stuck to 'em wherever they went. A soldier soon gets to like being a
conqueror; and Napoleon wheeled around those German generals, and pelted
away at 'em, until they didn't know where to hide long enough to get a
little rest. With fifteen hundred Frenchmen, whom he made to appear a
great host (that's a way he had), he'd sometimes surround ten thousand
men and gather 'em all in at a single scoop. Then we'd take their
cannon, their money, their ammunition, and everything they had that was
worth carrying away. As for the others, we chucked 'em into the water,
walloped 'em on the mountains, snapped 'em up in the air, devoured 'em
on the ground, and beat 'em everywhere. So at last our troops were in
fine feather--especially as Napoleon, who had a clever wit, made friends
with the inhabitants of the country by telling them that we had come to
set them free; and then, of course, they gave us quarters and took the
best of care of us. And it was not only the men: the women took care of
us too, which showed their good judgment!

Well, it finally ended in this way: in Ventose, 1796,--which was the
same time of year that our March is now,--we were penned up in one
corner of the marmot country: but at the end of the first campaign, lo
and behold! we were masters of Italy, just as Napoleon had predicted.
And in the month of March following--that is, in two campaigns, which we
fought in a single year--he brought us in sight of Vienna. It was just a
clean sweep. We had eaten up three different armies in succession, and
had wiped out four Austrian generals; one of them--a white-haired old
chap--was burned alive at Mantua like a rat in a straw mattress. We had
conquered peace, and kings were begging, on their knees, for mercy.
Could a man have done all that alone? Never! He had the help of God;
that's certain! He divided himself up like the five loaves of bread in
the Gospel; he planned battles at night and directed them in the
daytime: he was seen by the sentries going here and there at all hours,
and he never ate or slept. When the soldiers saw all these wonderful
things, they adopted him as their father.

But the people at the head of the government over there in Paris, who
were looking on, said to themselves: "This schemer, who seems to have
the watchword of Heaven, is quite capable of laying his hands on France.
We'd better turn him loose in Asia or America. Then maybe he'll be
satisfied for a while." So it was written that he should do just what
Jesus Christ did--go to Egypt. You see how in this he resembled the Son
of God. But there's more to come.

He gathered together all his old fire-eaters--the fellows that he had
put the spirit of the Devil into--and said to them: "Boys! They've given
us Egypt to chew on--to keep us quiet for a while; but we'll swallow
Egypt in one time and two movements--just as we did Italy; All you
private soldiers shall be princes, with lands of your own. Forward!"

"Forward, boys!" shouted the sergeants.

So we marched to Toulon, on our way to Egypt. As soon as the English
heard of it, they sent out all their ships of war to catch us; but when
we embarked, Napoleon said to us: "The English will never see us; and
it is only proper for you to know now that your general has a star in
the sky which will henceforth guide and protect us."

As 't was said, so 't was done. On our way across the sea we took Malta
(just as one would pick an orange in passing) to quench Napoleon's
thirst for victory; because he was a man who wanted to be doing
something all the time.

And so at last we came to Egypt; and then the orders were different. The
Egyptians, you know, are people who, from the beginning of the world,
have had giants to rule over them, and armies like innumerable ants.
Their country is a land of genii and crocodiles, and of pyramids as big
as our mountains, where they put the bodies of their dead kings to keep
them fresh--a thing that seems to please them all around. Of course you
can't deal with such people as you would with others. So when we landed,
the Little Corporal said to us: "Boys! The country that you are going to
conquer worships a lot of gods that must be respected. Frenchmen should
keep on good terms with everybody, and fight people without hurting
their feelings. So let everything alone at first, and by and by we'll
get all there is."

Now there was a prediction among the Egyptians down there that Napoleon
would come; and the name they had for him was Kebir Bonaberdis, which
means, in their lingo, "The Sultan strikes fire." They were as much
afraid of him as they were of the Devil; so the Grand Turk, Asia, and
Africa resorted to magic, and sent against us a demon named Mody [the
Mahdi], who was supposed to have come down from heaven on a white horse.
This horse was incombustible to bullets, and so was the Mody, and the
two of 'em lived on weather and air. There are people who have seen 'em;
but I haven't any reason, myself, to say positively that the things told
about 'em were true. Anyhow, they were the great powers in Arabia; and
the Mamelukes wanted to make the Egyptian soldiers think that the Mody
could keep them from being killed in battle, and that he was an angel
sent down from heaven to fight Napoleon and get back Solomon's seal--a
part of their equipment which they pretended to believe our general had
stolen. But we made 'em laugh on the wrong side of their mouths, in
spite of their Mody!

They thought Napoleon could command the genii, and that he had power to
go from one place to another in an instant, like a bird; and, indeed,
it's a fact that he was everywhere. But how did they know that he had an
agreement with God? Was it natural that they should get such an idea as
that?

It so happened, finally, that he carried off one of their queens--a
woman beautiful as the sunshine. He tried, at first, to buy her, and
offered to give for her all his treasure, and a lot of diamonds as big
as pigeons' eggs; but although the Mameluke to whom she particularly
belonged had several others, he wouldn't agree to the bargain; so
Napoleon had to carry her off. Of course, when things came to such a
pass as that, they couldn't be settled without a lot of fighting; and if
there weren't blows enough to satisfy all, it wasn't anybody's fault. We
formed in battle line at Alexandria, at Gizeh, and in front of the
Pyramids. We marched in hot sunshine and through deep sand, where some
got so bedazzled that they saw water which they couldn't drink, and
shade that made them sweat; but we generally chewed up the Mamelukes,
and all the rest gave in when they heard Napoleon's voice.

He took possession of Upper and Lower Egypt, Arabia, and the capitals of
kingdoms that perished long ago, where there were thousands of statues
of all the evil things in creation, especially lizards--a thundering big
country, where one could get acres of land for as little as he pleased.

Well, while Napoleon was attending to his business inland, where he
intended to do some splendid things, the English, who were always trying
to make us trouble, burned his fleet at Aboukir. But our general, who
had the respect of the East and the West, who had been called "my son"
by the Pope, and "my dear father" by the cousin of Mahomet, resolved to
punish England, and to capture the Indies, in payment for his lost
fleet. He was just going to take us across the Red Sea into Asia--a
country where there were lots of diamonds, plenty of gold with which to
pay his soldiers, and palaces that could be used for etapes--when the
Mody made an arrangement with the Plague, and sent it down to put an end
to our victories. Then it was, Halt, all! And everybody marched off to
that parade from which you don't come back on your feet. Dying soldiers
couldn't take Saint Jean d'Acre, although they forced an entrance three
times with noble and stubborn courage. The Plague was too strong for us;
and it wasn't any use to say "Please don't!" to the Plague. Everybody
was sick except Napoleon. He looked fresh as a rose, and the whole army
saw him drinking in pestilence without being hurt a bit. How was that?
Do you call that natural?

Well, the Mamelukes, who knew that we were all in ambulances, thought
they'd bar our way; but they couldn't play that sort of game with
Napoleon. He turned to his old fire-eaters--the fellows with the
toughest hides--and said: "Go clear the road for me." Junot, who was his
devoted friend and a number one soldier, took not more than a thousand
men, and slashed right through the army of the pasha which had had the
impudence to get in our way. Then we went back to Cairo, where we had
our headquarters.

And now for another part of the story. While Napoleon was away France
was letting herself be ruined by those government scalawags in Paris,
who were keeping back the soldiers' pay, withholding their linen and
their clothes, and even letting them starve. They wanted the soldiers to
lay down the law to the universe, and that's all they cared for. They
were just a lot of idiots jabbering for amusement instead of putting
their own hands into the dough. So our armies were beaten and we
couldn't defend, our frontiers. THE MAN was no longer there. I say "the
man" because that's what they called him; but it was absurd to say that
he was merely a man, when he had a star of his own with all its
belongings. It was the rest of us who were merely men. At the battle of
Aboukir, with a single division and with a loss of only three hundred
men, he whipped the great army of the Turks, and hustled more than half
of them into the sea--r-r-rah--like that! But it was his last
thunderclap in Egypt; because when he heard, soon afterward, what was
happening in France, he made up his mind to go back there. "I am the
savior of France," he said, "and I must go to her aid." The army didn't
know what he intended to do. If they had known, they would have kept him
in Egypt by force and made him Emperor of the East.

When he had gone, we all felt very blue; because he had been the joy of
our lives. He left the command to Kléber--a great lout of a fellow who
soon afterward lost the number of his mess. An Egyptian assassinated
him. They put the murderer to death by making him sit on a bayonet;
that's their way, down there, of guillotining a man. But he suffered so
much that one of our soldiers felt sorry for him and offered him his
water-gourd. The criminal took a drink, and then gave up the ghost with
the greatest pleasure.

But we didn't waste much time over trifles like that.

Napoleon sailed from Egypt in a cockle-shell of a boat called _Fortune_.
He passed right under the noses of the English, who were blockading the
coast with ships of the line, frigates, and every sort of craft that
could carry sail, and in the twinkling of an eye he was in France;
because he had the ability to cross the sea as if with a single stride.
Was that natural? Bah! The very minute he reached Fréjus, he had his
foot, so to speak, in Paris. There, of course, everybody worships him.
But the first thing he does is to summon the government. "What have you
been doing with my children the soldiers?" he said to the lawyers. "You
are nothing but a lot of poll-parrots, who fool the people with your
gabble, and feather your own nests at the expense of France. It is not
right; and I speak in the name of all who are dissatisfied."

They thought, at first, that they could get rid of him by talking him
to death; but it didn't work. He shut 'em up in the very barrack where
they did their talking, and those who didn't jump out of the windows he
enrolled in his suite, where they soon became mute as fish and pliable
as a tobacco-pouch. This coup made him consul; and as he wasn't one to
doubt the Supreme Being who had kept good faith with him, he hastened to
fulfil his own promise by restoring the churches and reestablishing
religion; whereupon the bells all rang out in his honor and in honor of
the good God.

Everybody then was satisfied: first, the priests, because they were
protected from persecution; second, the merchants, because they could do
business without fearing the "we-grab-it-all" of the law; and finally
the nobles, because the people were forbidden to put them to death, as
they had formerly had the unfortunate habit of doing.

But Napoleon still had his enemies to clear away, and he was not a man
to drop asleep over his porringer. His eye took in the whole world--as
if it were no bigger than a soldier's head. The first thing he did was
to turn up in Italy--as suddenly as if he had poked his head through a
window; and one look from him was enough. The Austrians were swallowed
up at Marengo as gudgeons are swallowed by a whale. Then the French
VICTORY sang a song of triumph that all the world could hear, and it was
enough. "We won't play any more!" declared the Germans.

"Nor we either," said the others.

To which the new Lord replied that he did not have to forgive,
if it said by people who had cast him to kill him when he had gone to
see, that what he was well satisfied, that that had not but he
made on behalf of the city of Cuzco is those men who were present
there, for doing things as a woman, and therefore it was, that he
should not drink but like pots like those in which they had drunk.

Á all of which the Inca Viracocha was on the ground and inclined his
head to it, and occasionally responding to what the new ansi Lord
said, _chocayun_, saying "My father cruel!" é "I know my sin" [92].
É é then lift him llevole get to his house, where he was sumptuously
room, then it is eaten both together, and then forward again sought
the Lord for all you do honor and pleasure e Content. I then gave the
lords of Cuzco in order that the injunction was necessary for the
sacrifices and feasts fasts is that the Inca had to do, is that
its the woman who was at that party rescebir.

É ansi fact is being provided, the Inca got into a room, for which
it was pointed out, is his wife and mother in law was tucked into another,
who were fasting, not eating but is drinking chicha corn oil, ten days;
é the fasted mesmo e della survivors, while walking through the city.
Days by which the lords of Cuzco and made many great sacrifices to idols
and all Guaca who were around the city, especially in the Casa del
Sol, do large amount of slaughtered cattle, sheep, lambs é deer ,
is of all other animals for that party could have, quite a lot of
great birds, including eagles, falcons, partridges, ostriches, is
all the other birds that may have been brave to domestic ducks and
other birds; é many other animals, tigers, lions, wildcats, foxes
ecepto because with such hatred and evil have Querencia, if they
see that when the holidays are like the yearning to understand in
these sacrifices, it is bad luck.

Ansímesmo were killed many children, who buried alive is seasoned very
well dressed, which buried in pairs, male and female, is buried
with each of these two long gold and silver service, such as plates and
jugs and bowl , pots and cups for drinking, with all other duties
which usually has married an Indian, all of which were gold and silver;
ansi is buried with all these children trousseaus, who were sons of
caciques and principal. And while these sacrifices were made, all of the
city were great celebrations and rejoicing in the town square. And
these days, the parents of the girl is the other bereaved iban the
Inca that the woman driving in front of it, dressed in fine linen
woven with gold and fine silver, which were dressed in prison for
the top and near the neck, with four pins gold two spans in length
each, which typically weigh two pounds of gold and head start in a
gold ribbon as wide as a thumb, it seems almost wants crown; ansímesmo
is wearing a skirt by the waist belt is fine wool woven with gold,
which would strip many different paintings.

Spread by wearing another small blanket, woven ansímismo gold and fine
silver, is a variety of tasks, depending on their use of clothing,
shoes on your feet wearing shoes gold to his style, of which the bonds
are ansímismo gold, the which was very clean é é worsted dressed. É
as well do the Inca was reached, the parents and their relatives begged
the new Lord Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, who had the right of women
to receive such debt is his daughter and the new Lord, who was seen
as something that you Convenia é belonging to him, said the recebia
by such women, there is then sent to the lords of Cuzco there was
that received by her as the Lady, then it is the parents of the
Lady that he paid you, is the the lords of Cuzco as its received
by the Lady, to whom, then there rose Viracocha Inca, father of the
new Lord é é hugged kissed on a cheek, is what she did to him, and
this fact made grace and gifts from some small towns around there
have their heritage.

And then the Pachacutec [93] and again kissed the Lord is hugged his
wife and this woman, Diola é é ofrecióla Mamacona one hundred women for
their service, is then carried away to the houses of the Sun, which
made it their sacrifice and the sun comes up, your butler is on their
behalf, other fifty Mamacona. É output there is still in the houses of
the Inca, the lords of the city were to offer their gifts, which
helped him a lot of gold and silver service, such as jars of gold and
silver, small and large é bowl and dishes and pots and cups for
drinking, and many service Yanaconas, who spent more than two
hundred. ansi And indeed, the festival is being finished, Viracocha
Inca told his son that it was time to be back His people, because
in the revelries and festivities that had been made, [are there?]

took three months, during which time he had always been there. The
Pachacuti was told that each and when they like; and being provided
by Inca Yupanqui everything, anxious to bastimentos like everything else
in quel would need in his hometown, it was Inca Viracocha, which
begged the Inca Yupanqui, that whenever any holiday in Cuzco, is coming
to find them, and he said you would, which, as they each had festivals
in the city, always found him to leave there.

Which Viracocha Inca, graphical Ten years after the coronation of
Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, at his people's call Penol Cagua Xaquixahuana
[94], which is top of the village of Calca, seven leagues from the
city of Cuzco, Holger and rejoicing , sick of a certain disease, which
in four months that this man became ill Viracocha Inca, was killed,
died as the age of eighty years. which, after death, Inca Yupanqui
you very much honored, to bring your body in doing well decorated,
well-ansi as if alive, to the city of Cuzco, where is that each
festival there, with honor and respect you to the lords of Cuzco
is the other warlords, or anxious as if alive, in front package
which is to burn many sheep slaughter lambs é é clothes é corn, is
coca, chicha is shed very much, saying that the package may eat,
is who was the son of the sun, questa é with him in heaven.

And did make very many packages, and many, many gentlemen from
Manco Capac had happened to his father Inca Viracocha e ansi
facts, ordered that certain seats are made of wood carved and painted
Galana, which were attached many pintaduras feathers various colors. And
that craves fact, this Lord commanded that all of these packages were
seated in the seats along with his father, who ordered that all
honor and bow to idols, is that anxiety, they were made to such
sacrifices. Which were placed in their homes, and each and when some
gentlemen went to do the Inca was towards compliance in the sun, and
then to Packages, and then went to do the Inca was and did the same.
For the slaughter of which said packages, and appointed a certain
amount of _yanaconas_ é _mamaconas_, diols and land for planting
and that cojiesen for the service of these packages, and many noted
ansímismo won for the sacrifices they had to do it craves, and this
service is land and livestock give each package is divided by itself
and ordered it be taken care of constantly, at night and morning
to feed and drink at these packs and sacrifice, for which he is
said to have each of these a steward of such servants pointed out
that he craves; ansímismo é é stewards to these each by itself,
then make songs, which is to sing these Mamacona Yanaconas in praise
of the facts that each of these gentlemen in their day ansi made
songs which time all parties ordinarily would sing them for each
service order and his concert, the first starting singing and story
that is the loa of Manco Capac, who is anxious, they were saying
such Mamacona service is, how the Lord had happened there and that
was that they had orders from there onwards, to have a memory of
that Dell and its antiquities.

Which is Yanaconas service Inca Yupanqui ordered that had their homes
and villages and stay in the valleys and villages around the city
of Cuzco, and that they and their descendants have provided care
packages to serve those to whom he gave é noted.

All this was done since then ansi until today, making it hidden and secret,
some is public, because the Spaniards do not understand what it is.
These packages are involved in such Orono, trojan that are missing
here is the other corn meal, and others in large pots and jars, and
in wall voids, and so can not stress encountered.

Packages for which Inca Yupanqui commanded when he yearns to put in the
seats, their heads were put in a very Galana crowns of feathers,
of which hung a gold ear rings, and this fact he craves, he put
them ansímismo in front, each of these packages, a paten of gold, which
is always Mamacona were two women with long colorful feathers in his
hands and tied around poles, which flies yearning oxeasen [in] packages
sat ; service which is anxious to be done to these [95] package was
very clean; é é Yanaconas Mamacona that every where it is similar in
front of these packages and honor to serve them, is that they were any
other, come very clean and well dressed, clean and with all reverence
é é such compliance would be in front of these packages.

É desta way, this made the Lord in two things that made their past were
taken and observed by gods, is that there dello memory, which was
because they understood that the same would make after his days. _CAP.
XVIII .-- In which contains how Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui joined theirs,
which they sent to meeting all seasoned with their weapons for a day
because they wanted to go to find land and people that win is win
is hold the domain easement is the city of Cuzco, is how people got all
their friends é é é won conquered many towns and provinces, is what
in the day that it happened to him and to his capitanes._ Since Inca
Yupanqui was served the Lord, in the order and manner that he has the
story, is that they no longer had to deal with building in the city,
after having been comfortable with his own, commanded that all
the lords of the city of Cuzco is the and other chieftains gathered
at the main plaza, which were ansi together.

It is all still there, he said, he had news from around the city
and there were many very large number of towns and provinces, it is for
him, he had strength, he was wrong to live with little, and thought she
had been ordered from in that city two months thereafter, to seek,
acquire and hold such towns and provinces to the city of Cuzco, is to
remove the names of each señorcillo such people and the provinces had
_Capac_, is not there, but having _Capac_ only one and that it was him
and that if that were the case, such a walk in the conquest, he topase
any gentleman in whom he proved his strength and will subject him to
holgaria you serve, which he did not was afraid, because the sun,
as vian, was with him, for which time was need for one hundred million
men of war, for those two months they were together in the city of
Cuzco, with its arms and the other supplying that will be needed for
this day. To which he replied that they were willing to give him and the
people that serve it, and that ansímismo would be for their people, who
begged that he wanted to get the lead, is that it was his willingness
to give them space for three months because they need this time to
make such people. Holga É dello Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, sending them
on their land that is no longer any collection of principal and butlers,
who sent into the river, each of Orejón of Cuzco, some vessels chicha,
is that you give such ansímismo Orejón certain other vessels of chicha,
finjendo with drinking water. Why should know, they have a habit of good
parenting and how this is all the other lords of the earth, and that if
a gentleman or lady to go home or to another visitalle velle has carried
behind if lady, a pitcher of chicha, and to get to do that is lord or
lady who comes to visit, makes escanciar two glasses of chicha, a
drink and this gentleman who visit and the other drinks such chicha
da man, and drink the two and what makes the inn, which ansímismo
take another two glasses of chicha, and gives a yearning to come
to visit him, and he drinks the other.

And that you are among those gentlemen, and this is the greatest
honor that they used, and if this is not done when you visit, tiénese
affront to the person who yearns to visit the other and that it is
not honored Dall drink, and excuses for not going to see more and
ansímismo is affront to the drink you give to another and do not want
rescibir. Forward to, when you hear this sacrifice that makes the waters,
they say they drink them, they miss a glass of chicha in the river and
the yearning he misses the other babies. É ansímismo Inca Yupanqui ordered
that, if this sacrifice was made, they were two gentlemen of Cuzco,
including the one by the river and the other on the other, which each
carry a ten Indians themselves is the most wanted , which brought Indian
clubs in long hand, so if such things were slaughtered at the river was
stopped in the water to see the Indians, with their sticks sent
into the environment, to bring the water; is that these gentlemen
to bring these Indians sent into the middle of the river such things
and sacrifices, they were really for the river thirty miles down
the river, in part because no non-stop.

And because they saw that the earth gave fruit through the waters, which
were sent in that month that this sacrifice was made, all over the
world, is that that day brought trujesen [of] all their land over the
entire amount of food that then join season is that they could eat,
which food is put the middle of the square of Cuzco, is there is spread
throughout the city, so that the common understanding that, through the
sacrifice that ANSI to water is toward and through them, the earth gave
fruit that all participate in and be accepted. The party which was sent
to the Lord in this month and have heard, being more of half of
the full moon, and in this month and have heard was done, the feast
that lasted four days is sacrifice.

It is the month of October this gentleman named _Omaraimiquis_ [96].

I saw the Emperor that day, standing motionless near the bridge, and
never feeling the cold at all. Was that natural, do you think? He was
watching the destruction of his treasure, his friends, his old Egyptian
soldiers. It was the end of everything. Women, wagons, cannon--all were
being destroyed, demolished, ruined, wrecked! A few of the bravest
guarded the eagles; because the eagles, you understand, stood for
France, for you, for the civil and military honor that had to be kept
unstained and that was not to be humbled by the cold.

We hardly ever got warm except near the Emperor. When he was in danger,
we all ran to him--although we were so nearly frozen that we would not
have held out a hand to our dearest friend. They say that he used to
weep at night over his poor family of soldiers. Nobody but he and
Frenchmen could ever have pulled out of there. We did pull out, but it
was with loss--terrible loss. Our allies ate up all of our provisions,
and then began the treachery which the Red Man had foretold.

The blatherskites in Paris, who had kept quiet since the formation of
the Imperial Guard, thought that the Guard had finally perished. So they
got up a conspiracy and hoodwinked the Prefect of Police into an attempt
to overthrow the Emperor. He heard of this and it worried him. When he
left us he said: "Good-by, boys. Guard the posts. I will come back to
you."

After he had gone, things went from bad to worse. The generals lost
their heads; and the marshals quarreled with one another and did all
sorts of foolish things, as was natural. Napoleon, who was good to
everybody, had fed them on gold until they had become as fat as pigs,
and they didn't want to do any more marching. This led to trouble,
because many of them remained idle in forts behind the army that was
driving us back to France, and didn't even try to relieve us by
attacking the enemy in the rear.

The Emperor finally returned, bringing with him a lot of splendid
recruits whom he had drilled into regular war-dogs, ready to set their
teeth into anything. He brought also a bourgeois guard of honor, a fine
troop, which melted away in battle like butter on a hot gridiron. In
spite of the bold front that we put on, everything went against us;
although the army performed feats of wonderful courage. Then came
regular battles of mountains--nations against nations--at Dresden,
Lutzen, and Bautzen. Don't you ever forget that time, because it was
then that Frenchmen showed how wonderfully heroic they could be. A good
grenadier, in those days, seldom lasted more than six months. We always
won, of course; but there in our rear were the English, stirring up the
nations to take sides against us. But we fought our way through this
pack of nations at last. Wherever Napoleon showed himself, we rushed;
and whenever, on land or sea, he said, "I wish to pass," we passed.

We finally got back to France; and many a poor foot-soldier was braced
up by the air of his native country, notwithstanding the hard times we
had. As for myself, in particular, I may say that it renewed my life.

It then became a question of defending the fatherland--our fair
France--against all Europe. They didn't like our laying down the law to
the Russians, and our driving them back across their borders, so that
they couldn't devour us, as is the custom of the North. Those Northern
peoples are very greedy for the South, or at least that's what I've
heard many generals say. Then Napoleon saw arrayed against him his own
father-in-law, his friends whom he had made kings, and all the
scoundrels whom he had put on thrones. Finally, in pursuance of orders
from high quarters, even Frenchmen, and allies in our own ranks, turned
against us; as at the battle of Leipsic. Common soldiers wouldn't have
been mean enough to do that! Men who called themselves princes broke
their word three times a day.

Well, then came the invasion. Wherever Napoleon showed his lion face
the enemy retreated; and he worked more miracles in defending France
than he had shown in conquering Italy, the East, Spain, Europe, and
Russia. He wanted to bury all the invaders in France, and thus teach
them to respect the country; so he let them come close to Paris, in
order to swallow 'em all at a gulp and rise to the height of his genius
in a battle greater than all the others--a regular mother of battles!
But those cowardly Parisians were so afraid for their wretched skins and
their miserable shops that they opened the gates of the city. Then the
good times ended and the "ragusades" began. They fooled the Empress and
hung white flags out of the palace windows. Finally the very generals
whom Napoleon had taken for his best friends deserted him and went over
to the Bourbons--of whom nobody had ever before heard. Then he bade us
good-by at Fontainebleau. "Soldiers!"

I can hear him, even now. We were all crying like regular babies, and
the eagles and flags were lowered as if at a funeral. And it was a
funeral--the funeral of the Empire. His old soldiers, once so hale and
spruce, were little more than skeletons. Standing on the portico of his
palace, he said to us:

"Comrades! We have been beaten through treachery; but we shall all see
one another again in heaven, the country of the brave. Protect my child,
whom I intrust to you. Long live Napoleon II!"

Like Jesus Christ before his last agony, he believed himself deserted by
God and his star; and in order that no one should see him conquered, it
was his intention to die; but, although he took poison enough to kill a
whole regiment, it never hurt him at all--another proof, you see, that
he was more than man: he found himself immortal. As he felt sure of his
business after that, and knew that he was to be Emperor always, he went
to a certain island for a while, to study the natures of those people in
Paris, who did not fail, of course, to do stupid things without end.

While he was standing guard down there, the Chinese and those animals on
the coast of Africa--Moors and others, who are not at all easy to get
along with--were so sure that he was something more than man that they
respected his tent, and said that to touch it would be to offend God. So
he reigned over the whole world, although those other fellows had sent
him out of France.

Well, then, after a while he embarked again in the very same nut-shell
of a boat that he had left Egypt in, passed right under the bows of the
English vessels, and set foot once more in France. France acknowledged
him; the sacred cuckoo flew from spire to spire; and all the people
cried, "Long live the Emperor!"

In this vicinity the enthusiasm for the Wonder of the Ages was most
hearty. Dauphiny behaved well; and it pleased me particularly to know
that our own people here wept for joy when they saw again his gray coat.

On the 1st of March Napoleon landed, with two hundred men, to conquer
the kingdom of France and Navarre; and on the 20th of the same month
that kingdom became the French Empire. On that day THE MAN was in Paris.
He had made a clean sweep--had reconquered his dear France, and had
brought all his old soldiers together again by saying only three words:
"Here I am." 'Twas the greatest miracle God had ever worked. Did ever a
man, before him, take an empire by merely showing his hat? They thought
that France was crushed, did they? Not a bit of it! At sight of the
Eagle a national army sprang up, and we all marched to Waterloo. There
the Guard perished, as if stricken down at a single blow. Napoleon, in
despair, threw himself three times, at the head of his troops, on the
enemy's cannon, without being able to find death. The battle was lost.

That evening the Emperor called his old soldiers together, and, on the
field wet with our blood, burned his eagles and his flags. The poor
eagles, who had always been victorious, who had cried "Forward!" in all
our battles, and who had flown over all Europe, were saved from the
disgrace of falling into the hands of their enemies. All the treasure of
England couldn't buy the tail of one of them. They were no more!

The rest of the story is well known to everybody. The Red Man went over
to the Bourbons, like the scoundrel that he is; France was crushed; and
the old soldiers, who were no longer of any account, were deprived of
their dues and sent back to their homes, in order that their places
might be given to a lot of nobles who couldn't even march--it was
pitiful to see them try! Then Napoleon was seized, through treachery,
and the English nailed him to a rock, ten thousand feet above the earth,
on a desert island in the great ocean. And how they came to a province
that Cacha say that Canas is Indian, which is eighteen leagues from
the city of Cuzco, Viracocha this, as there hobiese called Canas
Indians, who then departed, they left armed, and seen as the Viracocha,
not knowing, say they came to him with their weapons all together to kill
him, and he, as anxious to come see them, understand what they were,
then suddenly made fire fell from heaven and came a burning ridge
of a hill to do the Indians were.This that I have told you is gospel truth; and all the other things that
you hear about the Emperor are foolish stories with no human likeliness.
Because, you see, God never gave to any other man born of woman the
power to write his name in red across the whole world--and the world
will remember him forever. Long live Napoleon, the father of the
soldiers and the people!