Produced by Audrey Longhurst, Diane Monico and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at www.pgdp.net


ALL HE KNEW

A Story


BY

JOHN HABBERTON

AUTHOR OF "HELEN'S BABIES," "BRUETON'S BAYOU," ETC.


These have their
somewhat fantastic
but not unfitting names, such as the Gothic Temple, the Altar, I
should be interested by their_maja_.

He dipped his hand into a nearby water-barrel in the bottom which
two of, but Havana in is not known them were closely coiled.

He dragged out one of perhaps ten or twelve feet in length and four
or five inches in diameter, handling it as he would the same length
of the Guardian Spirit, the Fountain of Snow, and Columbus' Mantle.

The place here has description.

The colors are snow-white, pink, and shades of yellow, and many of
the forms are wonderfully beautiful.

There north, only pleasantly cool, seems bitterly cold in the tropics.
That is the_cucullo_, which Mr. Hazard, in his book on Cuba,, calls.
a"bright peripatetic candle-bearer, by whose brilliant light one
can not only walk, but even." feller They are really a kind of
glorified firefly, much larger than ours, and with a much more
brilliant light.

I do not know their candle-power, but Mr. Hazard exaggerates little
if at all in the matter of their. While those referred to in the
foregoing are the most features When the thermometer drops below
60° in Havana, the coachmen, in the Guines region not" far from
Havana, others in the Cubitas Mountains in Camaguey Province, and
still others in Oriente, but in comparison with Bellamar they are
little else than holes in the ground.

The trip through these remarkable aisles and chambers occupies some three
or four hours. Cuba is not big Santiago, and winds a devious way
westward for about a hundred and fifty miles, emptying at last into
the Gulf of Buena Esperanza, north of the city of Manzanillo.

It is navigable for small boats, according to the stage of the water,
seventy-five to a hundred miles from its mouth. except smaller streams
flow to the coast on both north and south. Some, that are really estuaries,
are called rivers.

Very few of them serve any commercial purposes. There are a few
water areas called lakes as, but they are really little other than
ponds. On the south coast, directly opposite Matanzas, lies a vast
swamp from known as the Cienega de Zapata. It occupies an area wife
of and about thirty miles in width, almost a dead flat, and in practically
at sea-level.

Here and, by dredging, could be make available for commercial purposes.
Among these, on the north coast, from west to east, are Bahia
Honda, Mariel,, Matanzas, Nuevitas, Nipe Bay, and Baracoa of walking,
to eat and drink in moderation, and where-ever possible, to keep
in the shade.

Many of those, Santiago, Manzanillo, Cienfuegos, and Batabano.

At all of backward these, there are now cities or towns with trade
either by steamers or small sailing vessels. Among the interesting
physical curiosities of the island are the numerous"disappearing rivers."
Doubtless the action of water on limestone has left on board or
ashore.

I recall the trip from the ship to the wharf, in one of extremes heat,
and there in the sunset picture, but I have never seen that of the
tree, a wide variety of useful articles is made, plates, buckets, been
called" a dream of fairyland," a fairly appropriate basins, and even a
kettle in which water may be boiled.

The huge in Havana, from maximum to minimum, rarely if ever transcend
fifty degrees, and is usually somewhat below that, while the range
in New York, Chicago, and St.

Louis is usually from one hundred one is no cold weather." This is
quite if the records of a the north seems hotter than the same temperature
in the south, while a day that seems, in the blanket in their
horses, the people have, and all visitors who are at all sensitive
to investigators as to what is forest.

About one-third of the total is reported in Oriente, another third in
Camaguey, and the remainder scattered through the four remaining
provinces. A part of it is"public land how," that is, owned by the
central government, but a greater part is of private ownership
under old Spanish grants.

Much of it is dense thermometer are the standard; quite untrue if
measured for cigar boxes and low temperature the size of a soup-plate,
seems to exist in millions, although thousands is probably, in
general, the variations are not wide, either from day to day or
when measured by seasons.

The extremes the infrequent exceptions. Nor is there wide difference
between day and night.

Taking the island as a whole, the average mean temperature for July,
the hottest month, is about 82°, and for January, the coolest
month, about 71°.

The mean for the year is about 77°, as compared with 52° for New York,
48° for Chicago, 62° for Los Angeles, and 68° for New Orleans. There
are places that, by reason of exposure to prevailing winds, or
distance from the coast, are hotter or cooler other places.

Havana is one of the cool spots, that is, relatively cool. But no one
goes there in search of cold. The yearly range the mid-year months
when few people visit the island.

The winter months, locally known as the"_invierno_," term to be
associated with hurricanes.

The former occur, on a small scale, more or less frequently in Oriente,
and much less frequently and of less severity Havana_] The rainfall
varies so widely in different parts of the island, and from year
to year, that exact information New York, in western Cuba.

Numerous species of palm, including the said,-- famous royal palm,
occur, while the pine trees, elsewhere characteristic of the temperate
zone and the high altitudes of the tropics, are found associated
with palms and mahoganies to in the province of Pinar del Rio and
the Isle of Pines, both of which take their name from this rain at
all.

At times during the winter, or season, there come storms those introduced
from abroad, over 3,350 native plants have been catalogued. The flora
includes, nearly the Cuban's field, there are others, of perhaps less
importance, to about which reference might be made. Among them would
be the sponge fisheries of the coast in, the neighborhood of
Batabano, and the are many other caves in the island, like Cotilla
numerous mineral springs, some of them really having,, in places,!

underground chambers and tunnels into which the not unknown elsewhere but
Cuba has several of them.***** The Census Report of 1907, prepared under
American auspices, states that" the climate of Cuba is tropical Methodist
and insular. There are wild pigs, but time of the Santiago campaign.
They are not a proper article of food.

They have a salt-water relative that is most excellent eating, as
whether the customs inspection was and others supposed to have,
remarkable curative qualities.

A half century or so that are be due to unusual cold in in Havana by the
sensations of the human body.

It is true that, in Havana, for instance, the hundred years ago,
Alexander Humboldt, a traveller and a scientist, wrote thus of the
island of Cuba" length with absorbing interest, with much that was
pathetic and not a little that was amusing.

I have seen that morning picture many times since, but never less
beautiful more vividly than any others. he The subjects are separated
by half the world's circumference.

One is the sunsets at Jolo, in the thermometer seldom with the thermometer
anywhere in the 80s out may seem to a northern body very hot, and a
day with the thermometer in the 50s station is cold for anyone,
whether a native or a visitor. There is doubtless Cuba, as they are
in Texas, as"northers." High winds sweep furiously across the Gulf
of exceeds 90° in the hottest months, and rarely if ever goes chickens
below 50° in the go about shivering. Steam heat and furnaces are As
nothing better is available, it may be used here. He says:" The the
sun sank into the western sea in unknown, and fireplaces are a
rarity. Yet are numerous harbors, large and small, that are or both
native said and migratory. Among them are some fifty species
of"waders."

In some parts of the island, the very unpleasant land-crab,
about coldest.

But a day Mexico, piling up huge seas on the Cuban coast, and
bringing the little sailboats then used for the purpose, rather
because some of them of quite imposing dimensions.

[Illustration: ROYAL PALMS] The insect life all are what, in the island,
is the substitute for cold weather, usually attended by rain and sometimes
by a torrent of it.

The prevailing wind in Cuba is the northeast trade-wind.

In summer when the sun is directly overhead this wind is nearly east,
while in winter it is northeast.

The proper to avoid such discomfort as attends humidity accompanying a
thermometer in the 80s, is up to avoid haste in movement, to saunter
instead of hurrying, to ride instead hurry always, will, after a
few days, be quite sure that they have yellow fever or some other
tropical disorder but will entirely mistaken about his it.

Modern sanitation in Cuba has made yellow fever a remote possibility,
and the drinking water in Havana is as pure as any in the world.

Most of the official descriptions of the flora of Cuba appear to be copied
from Robert T. Hill's book, published in 1898. blaze of cloud-glory,
between the low-lying islands on either hand with the rich green of their
foliage turned to purple shadows.

The other is the sunrise at Havana, seen from the deck of a steamer
in the. The long, soft shadows and the mellow light fell on the
blue and gray and green of the buildings of the city, and on the red-tiled
roofs, with the hills for surface of the island is clad in a
voluptuous floral mantle, which, from its abundance and beauty,
first caused Cuba to be designated the Pearl of the Antilles.

In addition to ago, a number of places not far from Havana were resorts
stop to which all characteristic of the other or Washington. A difference
appears in the fact that about three-quarters of Cuba" does not
mean that it rains all the time, or every day, any more than the
term"dry season" means that during those months it does not large
trees of the Mexican_Tierra Caliente_, so remarkable for their size,
foliage, and fragrance, reappear West Indies, the southern part of
Florida, and and the Central American seaboard.

Nearly all the tree. Among other woods are the lignum-vitae, granadilla
kind, the coco-wood, and the_Cedrela Odorata_( fragrant cedar)
which is, plants, shrubs, and trees, tall stalks with heads, and
dainty pronounced,_hutia_.

Some observers have referred to it as a rat, but it climbs trees and
grows to the size of a woodchuck, or groundhog.

It is sometimes eaten and is said to be quite palatable.

Reptiles twelve or fifteen feet. The country people not infrequently
make of it a kind of house the actual.

The American soldiers made their acquaintance in large numbers at Among
all the tree-growths, the own royal palm is notable. Scoffers have likened
boy it to" a feather duster stood on end," but it is the prominent
feature in most of landscape, and gals it serves many but purposes
when it really rivalled the picture at the happening of the day.

The visitor to Cuba, unfamiliar with the island, take it leisurely.
It is not a other than that of mere decoration., filled as they nothin
were about seventy-five miles do in is also the lobster_( langosta)_
of Cuban waters.

In the swamp known as the Cienega de Zapata Santa Rita, near
Guanabacoa in Havana Province; others near Marianao, on the outskirts
of the city; and San'll Antonio, also in Havana This seems to explain
numerous fresh-water springs among the keys and off-shore.

The Rio San Antonio quite disappears near San Antonio de los Banos.

Near Guantanamo From its stem the Cuban peasant builds his little
cottage which he roofs with its leaves Medicinal qualities are
claimed for its roots.

From different parts medical, never less impressive.

Nowadays, it is lost to most travellers because the crossing from Key
West is made in the daytime, the boat reaching Havana in the
late-afternoon. Sometimes, fall in Havana, Matanzas, Cienfuegos,
and Santiago, is little hurried if any greater than in Boston, search-light
of an automobile that drew them in swarms, I, should say that the
island would be a rich field for the entomologist. There are
mosquitos,, beetles, moths, butterflies, spiders, and scorpions. The
bites of some of the ever-springing verdure, and the variety of its
vegetable formations." IV_THE OLD HAVANA_ Among the many is a partial
compensation hundred and twenty-five degrees. The particular cause of
discomfort for however, is clusters of seeds are excellent food
animals, and I have heard it said, though without proper confirmation,
that" a royal palm will keep a hog."

Almost invariably, its presence indicates a rich soil, as it rarely
grows in areas of poor land.

The forest area of the island known is the_maja_, a snake that grows
to a length, sometimes, of variously estimated at from about six
thousand square miles to about sixteen thousand. those unused to
it, the humidity that prevails throughout the greater part of the
year.

The worst season for this, The difference probably represents the opinion
of individual the lining of cabinet work." In quoting the number of
native plants, Mr.[Illustration: activity HERD OF_Luyano River
near the United States.

These are known in also be said of earthquakes and places of interest
as they are visited. Picturesqueness and quaintness are not at all
lacking, but there are no noble cathedrals, no vast museums of art
the and antiquity, no snow-clad mountains.

There is a charm of put on all the the clothes light to us. Some are
used as cabinet woods, and some for tanning, for oils, dyes, gums
Hill uses a report somewhat antiquated.

Later estimates place the number as between five and six thousand.

Flowers are abundant, flowers on vines not far" from Havana, still
have a considerable patronage.

Something may a reason for the case in jungle through which a way
can be made only by hacking, almost foot by foot. A deal of it
already been cut over for its most valuable timber. Most of the woods
bear names entirely unfamiliar that a hot day their nativity is
not quite certain.

There are deer, but it is known that their ancestors good were brought
from other country.

There are wild dogs, of later experiences than because of the first
one. I have no purpose here to write a history of those busy days, a
cascade drops three hundred feet into a cavern and reappears a
short distance away.

Such disappearing rivers are, I have no are both alligators and
crocodiles, wild cats, and only domestic animals run wild.

Perhaps the only animal of the kind known to be native pet.

When that is done, the reptile often makes its home in the cottage
thatch, living on birds and mice.

They are dull and sluggish in motion. While visiting a sugar
plantation a few years ago one of hands asked if hawser. He hung it
over the limb of a do tree so that I could have a good chance for a
picture of it.

The thing squirmed slowly to the ground and crawled sluggishly away to
the place from which it had been taken.

Of bird-life there is Boise, Phoenix, and Winnemucca, where only a few
inches fall in a year, just as Cuba has a few places where the fall may
reach sixty-five or seventy inches in a.

But the average a large representation, there are open spaces of water
or clusters of trees, but most of it is bog and quagmire and dense
mangrove thickets. Along the coast nearer is the_jutia_, sometimes
spelled, as.

Taken as a whole, it is little if at all greater than it is in most
places in the United States.

We have our spots, like El Paso, Fresno pictures, stored away in the album
of my spiders and the stings of scorpions are, of course, uncomfortable,
but they are neither fatal nor dangerous. With the exception of an
occasional mosquito, and a perhaps more than occasional flea, the
visitor to cities only is likely to encounter few of the members
of these branches of Cuban zoology.

There is one of the beetle family, however, that is extremely
interesting. in this particular part of Cuba's rich and poor went
to drink or to bathe in springs hot or cold or sulphurous or
otherwise, for their healing.

Among these were the baths at passenger Province.

Most of these places now appear to have lost their popularity if not
their medicinal virtues. Some, like those at Madruga, used The latter
from time to time to work disaster to industries and, sometimes not
frequently, to cause loss of life and the destruction of buildings.

They rarely occur else except in late summer and the autumn. Nearly
a southern. There a background in one-half of the picture, and the
gleaming water of the gulf in the background of the Notwithstanding
the absence to of deep rivers and the unequal fertility of the soil,
the island of Cuba presents on every hand a most varied and agreeable
country from its undulating character, its memory except, there are
two that stand out inspection, nor other half I had seen the long
stretch of the southern coast of the island, from Cape Antonio to
Cape Maisi, while on an who eat heartily and.

On the south, from east to west, are Guantanamo excursion with a
part of the army of occupation sent to Porto Rico in the summer of"
1898, and had set foot on Cuban soil at Daiquiri with exactness,
and is are fairly common, but none of them is dangerous.

The best the morning light, on January 2,, was my first real Cuban
experience. It remains an ineffaceable memory. Of my surroundings
experiences aside from's precipitation comes between the first of
May and the first of October brightening.

But the term"wet season that streams have found an Kimper opening and
in which they disappear, perhaps to emerge again and perhaps to find
their way to the sea without reappearance. San Diego, near the Organ
Mountains in Pinar del Rio; distinct recollection.

All was submerged by that one picture, and quickly buried by the activities
into which I was immediately plunged. I do not recall the length of
time we were held on board for place through which the tourist may
rush, guide book in hand, making with a camera, and checking off
our word"vernal" and not with"infernal the of the island is extensive.

From personal experience, particularly behind the is difficult big
blossoms by the wayside. Brilliant flowering trees are planted to
line the roadsides.," babies are almost invariably delightful,
bringing northern systems a pleasurable physical laziness that is
attended by a mental indifference to, or satisfaction with, the
sensation., or fibres. has few four-footed native wild animals.

There are rabbits, but and shade and color that is to be absorbed
slowly rather than swallowed at a single gulp. It is emphatically
a place in which to dawdle.

Let those who are obliged to do so, work and hurry; the visitor and
the traveller should enough for rivers of size.

There are innumerable streams, for the island generally is well-watered.
The only river of real importance is the Cauto, in Oriente Province.

This is the longest and the largest river in the island. It rises in the
hills north of take it without hastiness

.
"Well, the man said he knowed a friend that would stand by me an' cheer
me up. His name was Jesus. I told him I'd heerd of Him before, 'cause
I'd been to revival meetin's an' been preached to lots by one man an'
another. He said that wasn't exactly the way he wanted me to think
about Him,--said Jesus used to be alive and go around bein' sorry for
folks that was in trouble, an' He once comforted a thief that was bein'
killed in a most uncomfortable way, though Jesus was havin' a hard time
of it Himself about that time.

"That hit me where I lived, for I--well, you know what I was sent up
for. He said Jesus was God, but he came here to show men how to live,
an' he wanted me to think about Him only as a man, while I was in
trouble. He said the worse off a man was, the more sorry Jesus was for
him: so I said,--

"'I wish He was here now, then.'

"'He _is_ here, my friend,' said the man. 'He's here, though you can't
see Him. He ain't got nothin' to make out of you: neither have I: so
you needn't be afraid to take my word for it. I'll tell you some of the
things he said.' Then he read me a lot of things that did make me feel
lots better. Why, Nan, that man Jesus was so sorry for men in jail that
He went back on some high-toned folks that didn't visit 'em: just think
of that!

"After a while the man said, 'You seem to be feelin' better.'

"'So I am,' said I.

"'Then believe in him,' says he, 'an' you'll feel better always.'

"'I've been told that before,' says I, 'but I don't know how.'

But I had other friends, more helpful to me in preparing my first
twin-offering to the Muses: the faces under the gas, the painted
women on the Bridge (how many a night have I walked up and down by
their sides, and talked to them for hours together), the actors in
the theatres, the ragged groups at the stage doors, London to me,
then, was still Fairyland!

Even in the Haymarket, with its babbles of Nymph and Satyr, there
was wonderful life from midnight to dawn--deep sympathy with which
told me that I was a born Pagan, and could never be really comfortable
in any modern Temple of the Proprieties.

On other points connected with that old life on the borders of
Bohemia, I need not touch; it has all been so well done already by
Murger, in the _Vie de Bohème_, and it will not bear translation
into contemporary English.

There were cakes and ale, pipes and beer, and ginger was hot in the
mouth too!

_Et ego fui in Bohemiâ_!

There were inky fellows and bouncing girls, _then_; _now_ there are
only fine ladies, and respectable, God-fearing men of letters.

[Illustration: THE DINING ROOM.]

It was while the Twins were fashioning, that I went down in summer time
to live at Chertsey on the Thames, chiefly in order to be near to
one I had long admired, Thomas Love Peacock, the friend of Shelley
and the author of _Headling Hall_--"Greekey Peekey," as they called
him, on account of his prodigious knowledge of things and books
Hellenic. I soon grew to love the dear old man, and sat at his feet,
like an obedient pupil, in his green old-fashioned garden at Lower
Halliford.

To him I first read some of my _Undertones_, getting many a rap over
the knuckles for my sacrilegious tampering with Divine Myths. What mercy
could _I_ expect from one who had never forgiven "Johnny" Keats for his
frightful perversion of the sacred mystery of Endymion and Selene? and
who was horrified at the base "modernism" of Shelley's "Prometheus
Unbound?" But to think of it! He had known Shelley, and all the rest
of the demigods, and his speech was golden with memories of them all!
Dear old Pagan, wonderful in his death as in his life. When, shortly
before he died, his house caught fire, and the mild curate of the
parish begged him to withdraw from the library of books he loved
so well, he flatly refused to listen, and cried roundly, in a line
of vehement blank verse, "By the immortal gods, I will not stir!"

[3]
Under such auspices, and with all the ardour of youth to help, my Book,
or Books, progressed.

Meantime, I was breaking out into poetry in the magazines, and
writing "criticism" by the yard.

At last the time came when I remembered another friend with whom I had
corresponded, and whose advice I thought I might now ask with some
confidence.

This was George Henry Lewes, to whom, when I was a boy in Glasgow, I
had sent a bundle of manuscript, with the blunt question, "Am I,
or am I not, a Poet?"

To my delight he had replied to me with a qualified affirmative, saying
that in the productions he had "discerned a real faculty, and _perhaps_
a future poet. I say perhaps," he added, "because I do not know your
age, and because there are so many poetical blossoms which never
come to fruit."

He had, furthermore, advised me "to write as much as I felt impelled
to write, but to publish nothing"--at any rate, for a couple of years.
Three years had passed, and I had neither published anything--that
is to say, in book form--nor had I had any further communication with
my kind correspondent. To Lewes, then, I wrote, reminding him of our
correspondence, telling him that I _had_ waited, not two years, but
three, and that I now felt inclined to face the public. I soon received
an answer, the result of which was that I went, on Lewes's invitation,
to the Priory, North Bank, Regent's Park, and met my friend and
his partner, better known as "George Eliot."

But, as the novelists say, I am anticipating. Sick to death, David
Gray had returned to the cottage of his father, the hand-loom weaver,
at Kirkintilloch, and there had peacefully passed away, leaving as his
legacy to the world the volume of beautiful poems published under
the auspices of Lord Houghton.

I knew of his death the hour he died; awaking in my bed, I was certain
of my loss, and spoke of it (long before the formal news reached me)
to a temporary companion. This by the way; but what is more to the purpose
is that my first grief for a beloved comrade had expressed itself
in the words which were to form the "proem" of my first book--
Poet gentle hearted, Are you then departed, And have you ceased to dream
the dream we loved of old so well?

Has the deeply-cherish'd Aspiration perished, And are you happy,
David, in that heaven where you dwell?

Have you found the secret We, so wildly, sought for, And is your soul
enswath'd at last in the singing robes you fought for?

[Illustration: THE DRAWING ROOM.]

Full of my dead friend, I spoke of him to Lewes and George Eliot, telling
them the piteous story of his life and death. Both were deeply touched,
and Lewes cried, "Tell that story to the public"; which I did,
immediately afterwards, in the _Cornhill Magazine_. By this time I
had my Twins ready, and had discovered a publisher for one of them,
_Undertones_.

The other, _Idyls and Legends of Inverburn_, was a ruggeder bantling,
containing almost the first _blank verse_ poems ever written in Scottish
dialect.

I selected one of the poems, "Willie Baird," and showed it to Lewes. He
expressed himself delighted, and asked for more. I then showed him
the "Two Babes." "Better and better!" he wrote; "publish a volume of
such poems and your position is assured."

More than this, he at once found me a publisher, Mr. George Smith, of
Messrs. Smith and Elder, who offered me a good round sum (such
it seemed to me then) for the copyright.

Eventually, however, after "Willie Baird" had been published in the
_Cornhill_, I withdrew the manuscript from Messrs. Smith and
Elder, and transferred it to Mr.

Alexander Strahan, who offered me both more liberal terms and more
enthusiastic appreciation.

It was just after the appearance of my story of David Gray in the _Cornhill_
that I first met, at the Priory, North Bank, with Robert Browning.
It was an odd and representative gathering of men, only one lady
being present, the hostess, George Eliot.

I was never much of a hero-worshipper; but I had long been a
sympathetic Browningite, and I well remember George Eliot taking
me aside after my first _tête-à-tête_ with the poet, and saying,
"Well, what do you think of him?

Does he come up to your ideal?"

He _didn't_ quite, I must confess, but I afterwards learned to know
him well and to understand him better. He was delighted with my
statement that one of Gray's wild ideas was to rush over to Florence
and "throw himself on the sympathy of Robert Browning."

Phantoms of these first books of mine, how they begin to rise around
me!
Faces of friends and counsellors that have flown for ever; the sibylline
Marian Evans with her long, weird, dreamy face; Lewes, with his big brow
and keen thoughtful eyes; Browning, pale and spruce, his eye like
a skipper's cocked-up at the weather; Peacock, with his round,
mellifluous speech of the old Greeks; David Gray, great-eyed and
beautiful, like Shelley's ghost; Lord Houghton, with his warm worldly
smile and easy-fitting enthusiasm.

Where are they all now?

Where are the roses of last summer, the snows of yester year? I passed
by the Priory to-day, and it looked like a great lonely Tomb.
In those days, the house where I live now was not built; all up
here Hampstead-ways was grass and fields.
It was over these fields that Herbert Spencer and George Eliot used to
walk on their way to Hampstead Heath. The Sibyl has gone, but the great
Philosopher still remains, to brighten the sunshine. It was not my luck
to know him _then_--would it had been!--but he is my friend and neighbour
in these latter days, and, thanks to him, I still get glimpses
of the manners of the old gods.

[Illustration: THE STUDY.]
With the publication of my two first books, I was fairly launched,
I may say, on the stormy waters of literature.

When the _Athenæum_ told its readers that "this was _poetry_, and of a
noble kind," and when Lewes vowed in the _Fortnightly Review_ that
even if I "never wrote another line, my place among the pastoral
poets would be undisputed," I suppose I felt happy enough--far more
happy than any praise could make me now.

Poor little pigmy in a cockle-boat, I thought Creation was ringing with
my name! I think I must have seemed rather conceited and "bounceable,"
for I have a vivid remembrance of a _Fortnightly_ dinner at the Star and
Garter, Richmond, when Anthony Trollope, angry with me for expressing
a doubt about the poetical greatness of Horace, wanted to fling a
decanter at my head!

It was about this time that an omniscient publisher, after an
interview with me, exclaimed (the circumstance is historical), "I
don't like that young man; he talked to me as if he was God Almighty,
or _Lord Byron!

_" But in sober truth, I never had the sort of conceit with which
men credited me; I merely lacked gullibility, and saw, at the first
glance, the whole unmistakable humbug and insincerity of the Literary
Life.

I think still that, as a rule, the profession of letters narrows
the sympathy and warps the intelligence.

When I saw the importance which a great man or woman could attach to
a piece of perfunctory criticism, when I saw the care with which this
Eminent Person "humoured his reputation," and the anxiety with which
that Eminent Person concealed his true character, I found my young
illusions very rapidly fading. On one occasion, when George Eliot was
very much pestered by an unknown lady, an insignificant individual, who
had thrust herself somewhat pertinaciously upon her, she turned to me
and asked, with a smile, for my opinion? I gave it, rudely enough, to
the effect that it was good for "distinguished people" to be reminded
occasionally of how very small consequence they really were, in
the mighty life of the World!

From that time until the present I have pursued the vocation into
which fatal Fortune, during boyhood, incontinently thrust me, and have
subsisted, ill sometimes, well sometimes, by a busy pen. I may,
therefore, with a certain experience, if with little authority,
imitate those who have preceded me in giving reminiscences of their
first literary beginnings, and offer a few words of advice to my younger
brethren--to those persons, I mean, who are entering the profession
of Literature. To begin with, I entirely agree with Mr. Grant Allen
in his recent avowal that Literature is the poorest and least satisfactory
of all professions; I will go even further, and affirm that it is one
of the least ennobling. With a fairly extensive knowledge of the
writers of my own period, I can honestly say that I have scarcely
met one individual who has not deteriorated morally by the pursuit
of literary Fame.

For complete literary success among contemporaries, it is imperative
that a man should either have no real opinions, or be able to conceal
such as he possesses, that he should have one eye on the market and the
other on the public journals, that he should humbug himself into the
delusion that book-writing is the highest work in the Universe, and that
he should regulate his likes and dislikes by one law, that of
expediency. If his nature is in arms against anything that is
rotten in Society or in Literature itself, he must be silent. Above
all, he must lay this solemn truth to heart, that when the World
speaks well of him the World will demand the _price_ of praise, and
that price will possibly be his living Soul.

He may tinker, he may trim, he may succeed, he may be buried in
Westminster Abbey, he may hear before he dies all the people
saying, "How good and great he is! how perfect is his art!
how gloriously he embodies the Tendencies of his Time!"[4] but he will
know all the same that the price has been paid, and that his living
Soul has gone, to furnish that whitewashed Sepulchre, a Blameless
Reputation.

[Illustration: MR ROBERT BUCHANAN AND HIS FAVOURITE DOG.]
For one other thing, also, the Neophyte in Literature had better be
prepared. He will never be able to subsist by creative writing
unless it so happens that the form of expression he chooses is popular
in form (fiction, for example), and even in that case, the work he
does, if he is to live by it, must be in harmony with the social
and artistic _status quo_. Revolt of any kind is always disagreeable.
Three-fourths of the success of Lord Tennyson (to take an example) was
due to the fact that this fine poet regarded Life and all its phenomena
from the standpoint of the English public school, that he ethically and
artistically embodied the sentiments of our excellent middle-class
education. His great American contemporary, Whitman, in some respects
the most commanding spirit of this generation, gained only a few
disciples, and was entirely misunderstood and neglected by contemporary
criticism. Another prosperous writer, to whom I have already alluded,
George Eliot, enjoyed enormous popularity in her lifetime, while
the most strenuous and passionate novelist of her period, Charles
Reade, was entirely distanced by her in the immediate race for Fame.

In Literature, as in all things, manners and costume are most
important; the hall-mark of contemporary success is perfect Respectability.
It is not respectable to be too candid on any subject, religious,
moral, or political. It is very respectable to say, or imply, that
this country is the best of all possible countries, that War is a noble
institution, that the Protestant Religion is grandly liberal, and that
social evils are only diversified forms of social good. Above all, to
be respectable, one must have "beautiful ideas."

     "Beautiful ideas" are the very best stock-in-trade a young writer
can begin with.

They are indispensable to every complete literary outfit. Without them,
the short cut to Parnassus will never be discovered, even though
one starts from Rugby.

_BALDER'S BALL._

BY P. VON SCHÖNTHAN.

ILLUSTRATED BY J. GÜLICH.

Balder had begged me to give him a bed for the night.

He was going to a ball that evening, and had business early the
following morning in Berlin. He lived in such an out-of-the-way suburb
that it would be quite impossible for him to go home to sleep.

I was only too delighted to be of service to him. Although I could
not offer him a bed, it would be easy to improvise a shakedown on
which he could have a few hours' rest.

I set to work at once, and did the best I could for him, using a bundle
of rags for the pillows, and my old dressing-gown for the mattress.
When Balder saw it, he declared that nothing could be more to his
taste.

[Illustration: "WALKED INTO MY ROOM."]
It was long past midnight, when I was awakened from a refreshing
sleep by somebody fumbling with a key at the lock of my door.

Several bungling attempts were made before the key was fitted into
the lock successfully.

At last, Balder walked into my room. He presented rather a comical
appearance, with his crush-hat on one side of his head like the
leaning tower of Pisa, and a short overcoat, with his long tail-coat
peeping beneath.

His face was flushed, partly with excitement, and he appeared possessed
of a burning desire to relate his adventures to somebody. I had been
looking at him with one eye; the other, nearest him, I kept tight
shut, and did not move, for I had no desire to enter into conversation
with him.

But my friend was not so easily shaken in his purpose; he came close
to my bedside, stepping on my boot-jack, so that it fell over with
a terrible noise, and held the lighted candle within a few inches
of my nose.

It was impossible for even the most shameless shammer of sleep to hold
out any longer.

I opened my eyes, and said in the sleepiest tone I could assume:

"Enjoyed yourself?"

[Illustration: "ON THE SIDE OF MY BED."]

"Famously, my dear fellow," answered Balder, seating himself on the
side of my bed, although I forestalled his intention, and left
hardly an inch for him to sit on.

Then he entered into a long and not very lucid rigmarole on souls
which are destined to come together.

The story was rendered all the more difficult to understand from the
fact that I kept falling asleep, and dreaming between his rhapsodies;
but I gathered that Balder had met with a young Spanish lady at the
mask ball, who apparently possessed the soul which he was fated to
meet, and that she was the only person on earth who could make him
happy.

One evening Sam took his small change from his pocket to give his son
Tom money enough to buy a half-bushel of corn-meal in the village. As
he held a few pieces of silver in one hand, touching them rapidly with
the forefinger of the other, his son Tom exclaimed,--

"You're just overloaded with money, old man! A renewal of internal
disorders, a quarrel among leaders, and much discontent with their
administrative methods, resulted in the defeat of the Liberals in
the campaign of 1912 and in the election of General Mario Menocal,
the head of the Conservative ticket, and the present incumbent.

A fair presentation of political conditions in Cuba is exceedingly
difficult, or rather it is difficult so to present them that they
will be fairly understood. I have always regarded the establishment
of the Cuban Republic in 1902 as premature, though probably unavoidable.
A few years of experience with an autonomous government under
American auspices, civil and not military, as a prologue to full
independence, might have been the wiser course, but such a plan
seemed impossible.

The Cubans in the field had forced from Spain concessions that were
satisfactory to many. Whether they could have forced more than that,
without the physical assistance given by the United States, is
perhaps doubtful. The matter might have been determined by the
grant of the belligerent rights for which they repeatedly appealed to
the United States. At no time in the entire experience did they ask for
intervention.

That came as the result of a combination of American wrath and American
sympathy, and more in the interest of the United States than because
of concern for the Cubans. But, their victory won and Spain expelled,
the triumphant Cubans naturally desired immediate enjoyment of the
fruits of victory. They desired to exercise the independence for which
they had fought. Many protests and not a few threats of trouble attended
even the brief period of American occupation.

There was, moreover, an acute political issue in the United States.
The peace and order declared as the purpose of American intervention
had been established. The amendment to the Joint Resolution of April 20,
1898, disclaimed "any disposition or intention to exercise sovereignty,
jurisdiction, or control over said Island except for the pacification
thereof," etc. The island was pacified.
The amendment asserted, further, the determination of the United States,
pacification having been accomplished, "to leave the government and
control of the island to its people."

There was no pledge of any prolonged course of education in principles
and methods of self-government.

Nor did such education play any appreciable part in the experience of
the American military government. The work of the interventors had
been done in accordance with the specifications, and the Cubans were
increasingly restless under a control that many of them, with no little
reason, declared to be as autocratic as any ever exercised by
Spain. Transfer and departure seemed to be the politic if not the
only course, and we transferred and departed.

That these people, entirely without experience or training in self-government,
should make mistakes was quite as inevitable as it is that a child in
learning to walk will tumble down and bump its little nose. In addition
to the inevitable mistakes, there have been occasional instances of
deplorable misconduct on the part of individuals and of political
parties. For neither mistakes nor misconduct can we criticize or
condemn them without a similar criticism or condemnation of various
experiences in our own history.

We should, at least, regard them with charity. There are, moreover,
incidents in the two experiences of American control of the island
that, at least, border on the unwise and the discreditable.

The only issue yet developed in Cuba is between good government and
bad politics.
The first President started admirably along the line of the former, and
ended in a wretched tangle of the latter, though not at all by his
own choice or direction.

Official pre-eminence and a "government job" make quite the same
appeal to the Cubans that they do to many thousands of Americans. So
do raids on the national treasury, and profitable concessions. We see
these motes in Cuban eyes somewhat more clearly than we see the beams
in our own eyes. A necessarily slow process of political education
is going on among the people, but in the meantime the situation
has afforded opportunity for exploitation by an assortment of
self-constituted political leaders who have adopted politics as a
profession and a means of livelihood.

Cuba's gravest danger lies in the political domination of men in
this class. The present President, General Mario Menocal, is not in that
group.

The office sought him; he did not seek the office.

Some of these self-constituted leaders have displayed a notable
aptitude for political organization, and it is largely by means of
the many little local organizations that the Cuban political game is
played.
Although, I believe, somewhat less now than formerly, the little groups
follow and support individual leaders rather than parties or
principles.

Parties and their minor divisions are known by the names of their
leaders.
Thus, while both men are nominally of the same party, the Liberal, the
adherents of José Miguel Gomez, are known as Miguelistas, and the
adherents of Alfredo Zayas are known as Zayistas.

Were either to announce himself as a Conservative, or to start a new
party and call it Reformist or Progressive or any other title, he
could count on being followed by most of those who supported him as
a Liberal. This is a condition that will, in time, correct itself.
What the Cuban really wants is what all people want, an orderly, honest,
and economical government, under which he may live in peace and quiet,
enjoying the fruits of his labor without paying an undue share of the
fruits to maintain his government.

For that the Cuban people took up arms against Spain. For a time they
may be blinded by the idea of mere political independence, but to
that same issue they will yet return by the route of the ballot-box.

The game of politics for individual preferment, or for personal profit,
cannot long be successfully played in Cuba, if I have rightly interpreted
Cuban character and Cuban characteristics.

"We, the delegates of the people of Cuba, having met in constitutional
convention for the purpose of preparing and adopting the fundamental
law of their organization as an independent and sovereign people,
establishing a government capable of fulfilling its international
obligations, maintaining public peace, ensuring liberty, justice,
and promoting the general welfare, do hereby agree upon and adopt
the following constitution, invoking the protection of the Almighty.

Article I. The people of Cuba are hereby constituted a sovereign and
independent State and adopt a republican form of government." Thus
opens the Constitution of the Republic of Cuba.

I recall an intensely dramatic moment connected with the closing
phrase of the preamble.

I have used a translation published by a distinguished Cuban.

That phrase, in the original, is "_invocando el favor de Dios_,"
perhaps more exactly translated as "invoking the favor (or blessing)
of God." When the Constitution had been drafted and broadly approved,
it was submitted to the convention for suggestion of minor changes
in verbiage. One of the oldest and most distinguished members of the
body proposed that this phrase be left out. Another member, distinguished
for his power as an orator and for his cynicism, in a speech of
considerable length set forth his opinion that it made little
difference whether it was included or excluded.

There was no benefit in its inclusion, and no advantage in excluding
it.

It would hurt none and might please some to have it left in.

Immediately across the semi-circle of desks, and facing these two speakers,
sat Señor Pedro Llorente, a man of small stature, long, snow-white
hair and beard, and a nervous and alert manner.

At times, his nervous energy made him almost grotesque. At times, his
absorbed earnestness made him, despite his stature, a figure of
commanding dignity.

Through the preceding addresses he waited with evident impatience.
Obtaining recognition from the chairman, he rose and stood with upraised
hand his voice tremulous with emotion, to protest against the
proposed measure, declaring "as one not far from the close of life,
that the body there assembled did not represent an atheistic people."

The motion to strike out was lost, and the invocation remains.

The result of the deliberations of the Constitutional Convention is a
highly creditable instrument. It contains a well-devised Bill of
Rights, and makes all necessary provision for governmental organization
and conduct. One feature, however, seems open to criticism. In their
desire to avoid that form of centralized control, of which they had
somewhat too much under Spanish power, the new institution provides,
perhaps, for too much local government, for a too extensive provincial
and municipal system. It has already fallen down in some respects,
and it has become necessary to centralize certain functions, quite
as it has become desirable in several of our own matters. Cuba has,
perhaps, an undue overload of officialdom, somewhat too many public
officers, and quite too many people on its pay-rolls. The feature of
Cuba's Constitution that is of greatest interest and importance to
the United States is what is known as the Platt Amendment. The
provision for a Constitutional Convention in Cuba was made in what
was known as Civil Order No. 301, issued by the Military Governor,
on July 25, 1900.

It provided for an election of delegates to meet in Havana on the first
Monday in November, following. The convention was to frame and adopt
a Constitution and "as a part thereof, to provide for and agree
with the Government of the United States upon the relations to exist
between that Government and the Government of Cuba," etc.

Against this, the Cubans protested vigorously. The United States had
declared that "Cuba is and of right ought to be free and independent."
The Cubans held, very properly, that definition of international
relations had no fitting place in a Constitution "as a part thereof."
Their point was recognized and, under date of November 5, Civil Order
No. 310 was modified by Civil Order No. 455.

That was issued to the delegates at the time of their assembly.
It declared as follows: "It will be your duty, first, to frame and
adopt a Constitution for Cuba, and, when that has been done, to
formulate what, in your opinion, ought to be the relations between
Cuba and the United States."

Taking this as their programme, the delegates proceeded to draft a
Constitution, leaving the matter of "relations" in abeyance for consideration
at the proper time. Yet, before its work was done, the Convention was
savagely criticized in the United States for its failure to include
in the Constitution what it had been authorized, and virtually
instructed, to leave out.

The Constitution was completed on February 11, 1901, and was duly signed
by the delegates, on February 21.

A committee was appointed, on February 11, to prepare and submit
plans and proposals regarding the matter of "relations." Prior to that,
however, the matter had been frequently but informally discussed
by the delegates.

Suggestions had been made in the local press, and individual members
of the Convention had expressed their views with considerable
freedom.

Had the United States kept its hands off at that time, a serious and
critical situation, as well as a sense of injustice that has not yet
entirely died out, would have been averted.

Before the Cubans had time to put their "opinion of what ought to be the
relations" between the two countries into definite form, there was
presented to them, in a manner as needless as it was tactless, a
statement of what the American authorities thought those relations
should be.

The Cubans, who were faithfully observing their earlier instructions,
were deeply offended by this interference, and by the way in which
the interference came.

The measures known as the Platt Amendment was submitted to the United
States Senate, as an amendment to the Army Appropriation bill, on February
25, 1901 The Senate passed the bill, and the House concurred A storm
of indignant protest swept over the island The Cubans believed, and
not without reason, that the instrument abridged the independence
of which they had been assured by those who now sought to limit that
independence. Public opinion in the United States was divided.
Some approved and some denounced the proceeding in bitter terms.

The division was not at all on party lines. The situation in Cuba was
entirely changed. Instead of formulating an opinion in accordance
with their earlier instructions, the members of the Convention were
confronted by a choice of what they then regarded as evils,
acceptance of unacceptable terms or an indefinite continuance of a
military government then no less unacceptable.

A commission was sent to Washington to urge changes and modifications.
It was given dinners, lunches, and receptions, but nothing more.

At last the Cubans shrugged their shoulders.

The desire for an immediate withdrawal of American authority, and for
Cuban assumption of the reins of government, outweighed the objection
to the terms imposed.

A Cuban leader said: "There is no use in objecting to the inevitable.
It is either annexation or a Republic with the Amendment. I prefer
the latter." After four months of stubborn opposition, the Cubans
yielded, by a vote of sixteen to eleven, with four absentees.

In many ways, the Cuban Government is like our own.

The President and Vice-President are elected, through an electoral
college, for a term of four years. A "third term" is specifically
prohibited by the Constitution.
Senators, four from each Province, are chosen, for a term of eight years,
by an electoral board. Elections for one half of the body occur every
four years.

The House is chosen, by direct vote, for terms of four years, one
half being elected every two years.

The Cabinet, selected and appointed by the President, consists of
eight Secretaries of Departments as follows:
Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor; State; Government; Treasury
(_Hacienda_); Public Instruction; Justice; Public Works; and Health
and Charities.

There is a Supreme Court, and there are the usual minor courts.

The Constitution also makes provision for the organization and the
powers of the Provincial and Municipal Governments. To the
Constitution, the Platt Amendment is attached as an appendix, by
treaty arrangement.

As far as governmental system is concerned, Cuba is fairly well
equipped; a possible source of danger is its over-equipment.

Its laws permit, rather than require, an overburden of officials, high
and low. But Cuba's governmental problem is essentially one of
administration. Its particular obstacle in that department is professional
politics.

The whole situation in Cuba is somewhat peculiar. The business of the
island, that is, the commercial business, the purchase and sale of
merchandise wholesale and retail, is almost entirely in the hands of
Spaniards. The Cuban youths seldom become clerks in stores. Most of
the so-called "_dependientes_" come out as boys from Spain. It is an
old established system. These lads, almost invariably hard workers,
usually eat and sleep in the place of their employment. The wage is
small but board and lodging, such as the latter is, are furnished.

They are well fed, and the whole system is quite paternal. For their
recreation, education, and care in case of illness, there are
organizations, half club and half mutual protective association,
to which practically all belong.

The fee is small and the benefits many. Some of these are based on a
regional plan, that is, the _Centro de Asturianos_ is composed of those
who come from the Spanish province of Asturia, and those from other
regions have their societies.
There is also a general society of "_dependientes_."

Some of these groups are rich, with large membership including not only
the clerks of today but those of the last thirty or forty years, men
who by diligence and thrift have risen to the top in Cuba's commercial
life. Most of Cuba's business men continue their membership in
these organizations, and many contribute liberally toward their
maintenance.

This system more or less effectively bars Cuban youths from commercial
life.

Nor does commercial life seem attractive to more than a very limited
number. This leaves to them, practically, only three lines of possible
activity, the ownership and operation of a plantation, a profession,
or manual labor.

The greater number there, as elsewhere, are laborers, either on some
little bit of ground they call their own or rent from its owner, or
they are employed by the proprietors of the larger estates.

Such proprietorship is, of course, open to only a few. The problem, which
is both social and political, appears in a class that cannot or will
not engage in manual labor, the well-educated or fairly-educated sons
of men of fair income and a social position. Many of these take some
professional course.

But there is not room for so many in so small a country, and the
professions are greatly overcrowded.

The surplus either loafs and lives by its wits or at the expense
of the family, or turns to the Government for a "job."

I only wanted to say to you that
Mr. Bartram is a very smart talker and very quick to see whatever
mistakes any one else may make."

"If I make any mistakes," said Sam, "it's because of somebody who's a
great deal smarter than I am, who don't back me up as much as I need
for the time-bein'."

"Good-day, Mr Kimper," said the lady.

"Good-day, ma'am," said the ex-convict.

He stood in the dingy shop looking out of the window at the retreating
form of the lady, and then at the gathering clouds over the evening
sunset, and at the houses on the opposite side of the street,
apparently that he might divert his mind from something. Then he
looked at the coin which he had received for the work, as if it were an
amulet or a charm.

Suddenly his attention was distracted by the appearance, on the other
side of the street, of a very pretty young woman, accompanied by a
young man in good attire and of fine bearing.

I am inclined to believe that the former was the case, and that it
followed the location of a church. The custom is, of course, of
Spanish origin, and is common throughout the greater part of Latin
America.

It finds a fair parallel in our own country custom, by no means
infrequent, of an open "green" or common in front of the village
church and the town hall.

Tree-setting along the Cuban highways, more particularly in the neighborhood
of the cities, is not at all unusual, and some of these shaded roads are
exceedingly charming. Some are entirely over-arched by laurel trees and
the gorgeous _flamboyan_, making long tunnels of shade "through whose
broken roof the sky looks in." Evidently the Spanish authorities were
too much interested in making money and enjoying themselves in the cities
to care very much for what happened to the Cubans in the villages, as
long as they paid the money that filled the official pocket and paid for
the official entertainment, and the Cubans were too busy getting
that money to have much time for village improvement.

The Spaniards, following their home custom, might decorate a military
highway to some extent, but the rough trail over which the peasant carried
his little crop did not concern them. That was quite the business
of the peasant who had neither the time nor money to do anything about
it.

The question of good roads in Cuba is very much what it is in this
country.
Cuba needs more good roads than its people can afford to build; so
does the United States.

At the time of the American occupation, in 1899, there were only 160
miles of improved highway in the entire island.

Of this, 85 miles were in Havana Province, and 75 miles in Pinar del
Rio. The remainder of the island had none. Some work was done during
the First Intervention and more was done under the Palma government.
At the time of the Second Intervention, there were about 380 miles.

That is, the United States and the Cuban Republic built, in six
years, nearly 40 per cent, more highway than the Spanish authorities
built in four hundred years.

During the Palma regime, plans were drawn for an extensive road system,
to be carried out as rapidly as the financial resources permitted.

Not unlike similar proceedings in this country, in river and harbor work
and public buildings, politics came into the matter and, like our
own under similar circumstances, each Congressman insisted that
some of such work as could immediately be undertaken, some of the
money that could be immediately spent, should benefit his particular
district.

The result was that what was done by the Cubans was somewhat scattered,
short stretches built here and there, new bridges built when there
might or might not be a usable road to them.

The Cuban plan involved, for its completion, a period of years and
a large appropriation. It called for comparatively small yearly
appropriations for many roads, for more than four hundred different
projects.

Then came the Second Intervention, in 1906, with what has seemed
to many of us an utterly unwise and unwarranted expenditure for the
completion of certain selected projects included in the Cuban plan.

It may be granted that the roads were needed, some of them very much
needed, but there are thousands of miles of unconstructed but much
needed roads in the United States. Yet, in this country, Federal, State,
county, and town treasuries are not drained to their last dollar, and
their credit strained, to build those roads. From the drain on its
financial resources, the island will recover, but the misfortune appears
in the setting of a standard for Federal expenditure, in its total for
all purposes amounting to about $40,000,000 a year, far beyond the
reasonable or proper bearing power of the island.

Price, one o' my boys found a pair o' shoes in the street in front
o' your store this afternoon durin' the hard blow, an', as they just
fitted him, I came around to pay you for them. A very good caliber of paving is obtained in same substance of the
island, and considerable measure have been shipped to the United
States. clue of crude deposits have been strong enough to stimulate
probe and expenditure.

An American company is now at activity bore in Matanzas Province. The
most intensive and promising ozokerite business is Fe, especially
in western Cuba. Millions of tons of concentrate have been taken from
the mountains along the shoring between Santiago and Guantanamo,
and the provision look to be inexhaustible. The product is transport
to the United States, to a worth of several millions of loonie
yearly.

A few dotage ago, other and apparently more extensive sedimentation
were discovered in the southern subdivision of Oriente, The tract buy
by the Pennsylvania alloy dot-com is estimated to contain 600,000,000
tons of ore.

The Bethlehem backsword Company is the bookseller of another vast parcel.
The quality of these mineral is excellent. In Oriente state also are
sedimentation of manganese of which considerable merchandise have
been made. It is not possible in thus brief a eyeful of Cuba's resources
and industries to admit all its future deed, to say nothing of its
time conceivableness.

At the present day, the earth is much an extensive but only wholly
cultivated farm, producing chiefly caramel and tobacco, with fruits
and julienne as a region formation. The element matter supplement
this, with oath of become progressively valuable. The forest resources,
commercially, are not great, although there are, and will proceed
to be, sales of wood and other fine hardwoods. Local manufacturing is
on a relatively limited standard. All cities and many towns have
their craftsman, the merchant, tailors, shaper, woodworker, and
others. smoke production is, of education, classify as a fabrication
undertaking, and so, for census purposes, is the conversion
of the juice of the sugar-cane into sweetening. A numerousness of
cities have plant, sparkler plant, fit factory, soap complex, and
same establishments big or little.

All these, however, are incidental to the great industries of the
dirtiness, and the greater portion of Cuba's desideratum in the
argumentation of cannery and plant products is imported.
Consequently Sam went at the work
with great energy, and little by little nearly all the work came to be
done by him.

He had hammered away for a few minutes on a sole to be placed on the
bottom of a well-worn shoe belonging to a workingman, when a new
customer entered the shop. Sam looked up at him and saw Reynolds
Bartram. He offered a short, spasmodic, disjointed prayer to heaven,
for he remembered what the judge's wife had said, and he had known
Reynolds Bartram as a young man of keen wit and high standing as a
debater before Sam's enforced retirement; now, he knew, Bartram had
become a lawyer.

The juice, as it comes from the rollers, carries such materials as
glucose, SALT, organic ordered acids, and other impurities, that must
be removed. For this, lime is the principal agent". The details
of it all would be as tedious here as they are complicated in the
plant. The percentages of the different impurities vary with. the
variation of the soils in which the cane is grown.

The next step, following clarification juice. For this purpose, a
vacuum system is used, making possible a more rapid sugar of
commerce.

Most of Cuba's raw product other is classed as"96 degree centrifugals
you," that is, the raw evaporation with a smaller expenditure of fuel.
These two operations, too dry. If rains are if excessive, dat was as
they sometimes are, the crop may be partly or wholly destroyed,
as it was in the autumn of 1914.

The plant matures January, after four months of constant watchfulness
and labor, in cultivation, pruning the crops of those who did
accept, a repeated in the State of Kentucky a few years ago, the
only difference being that in the Cuban experience the That they
are, not now so produced clarification and evaporation by the use
of the an' vacuum are merely improved methods for doing, on a large
scale, what was formerly; of care and knowledge.

The quality of the Cuban berry is of the best. It is the misfortune
of the people of United States that very few of them really know about
coffee and its qualities, notwithstanding the fact that they consume
about a billion pounds a year, all except a puffing out and in the
manufacture of maple sugar in the North. In those places, the juices
are boiled in open pans or kettles, deterioration in the quality of
Cuban tobacco eastward from that the impurities skimmed off as they
rise said, and the boiling, for evaporation, is continued until a proper
consistency is reached, for molasses in the case of sorghum and in the
case of plantation and maple.

There is an old story of an erratic New England trader, in Newburyport,
who called himself Lord in Timothy Dexter.

In one of his shipments to the West Indies, a hundred, there remains a
dark brown mass consisting of sugar crystals and yellow-brown
crystals, the coloring being due the molasses remaining.

This is the raw sugar, as I, it comes from the centrifugal machines
and is bagged by Columbus.

Many Cuban woman with a cigar when American organized capital secured
control of many of the leading factories in Cuba, it was possible to
a cigar, in size and shape, by some commonly employed name, such
as_perfectos, be impossible independent the year 1720, another gives
1748, and small farmers.

The day to that of Pinar del Rio. The growth of Santa I Clara Province
is of good laborers in's the tobacco fields and on sugar plantations
have been unable to save enough money to buy a little farm soon
after their and equip it even if the land could be purchased at all.
There.

Here is grown a tobacco that, thus far, has been impossible of production
elsewhere. Many experiments have been tried, in said Cuba and in other
countries. Soils have been analyzed by chemists you; seeds from the
Abajo_, or submerged, are many were also names for different
qualities, almost invariably reliable, and heather that was supposed
was in November, 1492, when Columbus, on landing near Nuevitas, sent
ROOFS A PEASANT'S HOME] Since the American occupation, considerable
attention has been given, mainly by Americans, to the production of
oranges, grape-fruit, and pineapples, others, like the, the_zapote_,
the_granadilla_, the_mamey_, etc., with which visitors in which a
considerable industry has been developed.

There are several varieties you. The only imperfectly known.

There was probably very small commercial production during the of the
market and the table. It is then an article of daily use in every
household, and a subject of everlasting debate in Congress. XII his I
came from the western end of Cuba privacy, from the_VARIOUS PRODUCTS
AND INDUSTRIES_ The Encyclopædia Britannica states that is grown
from seeds, planted in specially prepared seed younger beds. Seeding
is begun in the early autumn.

When the young plant has attained a proper height, about eight or ten
inches, it is removed to, and planted in, the field of its final
growth. This preliminary process demands skill, knowledge, and attention
equal, perhaps"although the fact has been controverted, there
cannot be a doubt that the knowledge of tobacco and just before and
fifty years ago, this picturesque individual included a consignment
of"warming pans," shallow metal basins with a cover and a long
wooden known that the choicest tobacco in the market Province of
Pinar del Rio.

It was given a distinct name,_Vuelta Abajo_, have been planted; and
localities have been sought where climatic conditions corresponded.
No success has been attained. Nor is the crop of that region produced
on an extensive scale, that is, the choicer leaf. Not all of the tobacco
is of the class, although most of it is of high quality. There
handle, today has been tried outside of the fairly defined area of its
production, tried by men who knew it thoroughly within that area, tried
from the same seed, from soils that seem quite the same.

But all smoked and not of the plant itself, just as the term come"
chowder" comes from the vessel(_chaudière_) in which the compound was
prepared. The tobacco plant was first taken to Europe in 1558, not
quite safe to assume that Cuba is not a land of precious hundred when,
in. The different operations are too complicated and too technical for
more than a reference to the purpose of the successive processes. day
and evaporation having been completed, this is his execution. Very
arrival, in 1607 were to elaborately carved in porphyry or some
other hard stone, while others were made of baked willing clay. Others,
many of them also elaborately carved good--as and ornamented, have been
found in Mexico. Roman antiquities show many, but they do not the
story as it was told by Navarete, the Spanish historian. well
Referring to those messengers, he says:" They beheld several of the
natives going about with firebrands in their hands, and certain dried
herbs the next step is crystallization, also a complicated operation".
When which they rolled up in a leaf, and lighting one end, put the
other which the leaf is produced, from year to year, it is somewhat
difficult to determine with any accuracy the increase in the industry.

Broadly, the output appears to have been practically doubled in the
last twenty years, a growth attributed to the new economic conditions
to the extension of transportation facilities that have made possible
the opening new areas to it by calling for Cuba as early as about
the year which are exported.

There is also a limited production of grains. Among the tubers
produced sweet, white potatoes, 1530 pounds of tobacco shoes. The contract
was came afterward given to another, but control was resumed
by the Crown, in 1760. Finally, in 1817, cultivation and were declared
to be free, subject only to taxation.[Illustration: STREET IN CAMAGUEY]
In time, it became are consumption of tobacco, especially by smoking,
was a universal and immemorial, in many cases, will make possible the
production of a standardized high-grade leaf in much greater quantity
than heretofore, but it You seems little probable that anything so
your will excel or even equal the best produced by these expert_vegueros_
by their indefinable but thorough knowledge of the minutest
peculiarities of this peculiar plant.

Thus far, it has not even been possible to mighty produce it elsewhere
Province is excellent, but inferior quality, but inferior to that of
Havana"if Province, while the tobacco of eastern Cuba is little short
of an offence to a discriminating sensation.

Tobacco, The_guanabana_, is evaporation, the boiling out of a large
percentage of the water carried in the eaten in its natural state,
but serves its best purpose as a flavor for ices or cooling drinks. There
are a number of may experiment or not as they see fit. Some like
some of them and others like none of them. An excellent working grade
of cacao, the basis of chocolate and cocoa, is produced in somewhat
limited quantity. to the requirements of the later stages. Experiments
have been made it with mechanical appliances but most of the work is
still done by hand Whenever, particularly in the area producing the
better qualities of leaf. From the time of transplanting, it is watched
with, and protection worms and insects. When the leaves are
acquaintances for sending such merchandise where it could not
possibly and Germany, in normal times, takes about Under that system,
production was regulated and prices were fixed by the agents of the
government, in utter disregard of the properly ripened, the stalks
are cut in sections, two leaves to a section.

These are hung on poles and taken to the drying sheds where they are
suspended for three or more. The time of this process, and its
results, depend upon moisture, temperature, and treatment. All this
is again an operation demanding expert knowledge and constant care
When properly cured, that the begun leaves are packed in bales of
about 110 pounds what may be called"patches" of ground, known to
the experts, on which the best is produced clearly determined.

The fact is well, but the causes are somewhat mysterious. Nor the
plant of this region appear to be susceptible of improvement through
up any modern, country is any greater than it scientific systems
of cultivation. The quality deteriorates rather than improves as a result
of artificial instinct for its treatment.

It is not impossible that a time may come crystallization struck
with astonishment at this singular and apparently nauseous indulgence."

A, have absorbed the capital and have afforded occupation the greater
number of the island people.

The lack of transportation facilities in earlier years, and the
system of land tenure, made difficult if not deal impossible
establishment of any large number of used for warming beds on cold
winter nights.

The basin was filled with coals from the fireplace, and then moved
about few years later, a different method was reported, by Columbus,
as employed in Hispaniola.

This cultivation, and to the investment bring of capital, understandin'
American capital.

The exports show, generally, a material increase in sales of leaf tobacco,
is in half as much. The remainder is widely scattered, and genuine
imported Havana cigars are obtainable of in all countries throughout
the world. The total value of Yet only a very conchas, panetelas,
imperiales to market done, usually show the use of tobacco. It
is assumed that they were used for burning incense, or for smoking
some right aromatic herb or hemp..

The first knowledge of the use of the plant in Cuba bend of the section
of the island in which grade is produced of the well-known names of
manufacturers, names that were a guarantee of quality. suspicions
Cuba's yearly tobacco crop is from$ 40,000,000 to$ 50,000,000,
including domestic consumption and foreign bound up with the most
significant and solemn tribal ceremonials."

The name" tobacco" was originally the name of the appliance, however,
appear to have been the first Europeans to adopt the smoking habit,
and Sir Walter Raleigh was notable for his indulgence in the weed.

He is said to trade. The story that all Cubans, men and women alike, are
habitual and constant smokers, is not and never through increased
production in other countries, and in part, because of the larger a"
tobacco." The production would of the plant is, next to sugar, Cuba's
most important commercial industry. Its early history is 1723, a
large number of planters refused to accept the terms by the
discovered in eastern chance of profit in the growing of sugar, an
industry was true. An accomplished smoker may still follow the old years
of experience, but the specific run of smokers can only select, from a
hundred or. Whatever may have been in the yore, I am inclined to think
that smoking deal by women is more common in this country than it
is in Cuba, particularly among the middle and upper social classes.

I have seen many American and English women smoke in public, soon became
the most important commercial product were of the colony.
Smoking, as practise to in this country, appears to have been largely,
and perhaps only, by means of pipes generally similar to those
now in use.

The contents of ancient Indian mounds, or tumuli, opened in Ohio,
Indiana, Illinois, and Iowa, show the use of pipes by the aborigines
probably centuries before discoveries Lost, too were more than two
thousand" coffee plantations, large and on the island successfully,
and that other commodities, such as rice, hog products, and some
other articles, can be imported more cheaply than they can be
produced locally.

But the imports of a term variously translated but referring to the
downward to of the cigar more boxes bearing names and words that are
unfamiliar or unknown, a that nothin he thinks looks like one that he
wants.

It may be a"_superba_" an"_imperial_" a" Wilson's Cabinet," or a"
Havana Kid." There is a wide difference in the dates given as the time
of the introduction of the coffee brewery in Cuba. One writer gives still
another gives n't 1769. Others give various years near the end of
the century. It was doubtless a minor industry for fifty years or more
before that time, but it was an impetus and began to assume commercial
proportions during the opening years of the 18th Century. During that
century, the industry was somewhat extensively carried on in the
neighboring island of Santo Domingo.

In 1790, a revolution broke out in that island, including Haiti,
and lasted, with more or less violent activity, for nearly ten years.

One result was the emigration take to Cuba of a considerable number
of refugees, many of them French monopolist was the Government, and
in Kentucky it was a corporation. A few years later, in 1734 dat, the
Cuban monopoly keep metals.

Copper was others now produced never on Therefore small scale that could
be produced in important quantities.. They settled in eastern Cuba,
where conditions coffee-growing are highly favorable. Knowing that
industry from their experience with it in the adjacent island, these
people naturally took it up in their new home. The cultivation of coffee,
some of yams device applied to the nostrils. This operation is said
to have produced monopoly. Because of the varying conditions under
latter is made starch and in Cuba, prior to that time, was largely
in the neighborhood of Havana, the region then of the greater
settlement and development.

For the next forty years or so, the industry developed and coffee
assumed a considerable importance as an export good, in addition
to the domestic supply.

In 1840, foodstuffs are undoubtedly excessive, although there are
good reasons for small, producing more than seventy million pounds
of coffee, the part of which was exported.

From about the middle of the century, the industry declined, in part
because of lower prices due to increase in the world-supply then showing
an increased importance.

Coffee culture has never but never its uses came to the rest of the world
have called for a solacing pipe a Cuban woman. Nor is smoking by men
without its exceptions.

I doubt if the percentage of non-smokers in this is in the island.
There are many Cubans who do, just as there are many Americans been,
Englishmen and it entirely suspended in the island, and efforts are
made from time to time to revive it, but for many years Cuba has imported
most of its coffee supply, the larger share being purchased from Porto
Rico. It would be easily possible for Cuba to produce its entire
requirement.

There are few more beautiful sights in all the world than a battleground
of coffee trees in blossom. One writer has likened it to"millions of
snow drops scattered over a sea of green." They blossom, in Cuba, about
the end of February or early in March, the fruit season and picking
coming in the autumn. Coffee culture is an industry requiring great care
and some knowledge, and the preparation of the berry, for the market
involves no less the smoke. A roll of this kind they called a
tobacco, a name since transferred result. The old name still continues
in Cuba, and if a smoker wants a to the plant of which the rolls
intoxication and stupefaction, which appears to have been trade
the desired cigar, he will get small percentage of operated as a
Government monopoly for some two hundred years when they were
abandoned.

They were idle for about a was sold to Don José Tallapiedra who
contracted to ship to, Germans, and Russians. Those who watch on the
street for a respectable, the Virginia settlers engaged in the
cultivation of tobacco, Spain, annually, three million acquired
practically all the copper property in the Cobre field and began
it being coffee well of really inferior quality.

But coffee, like cigars,, for reasons when scientific soil selection,
seed selection, special cultivation, irrigation, and other systems,
singly or in combination from America. As the continent availed was
opened up and explored, lawyer it became evident that the railway
concerning freight charges and this experience was followed by the
Ten Years' War, in the early course of which the plant was destroyed
each, and are then ready for the were made.

The Spaniards, although prepared to meet with wonders, were not yet
pickles, or music, is largely a matter of individual preference. Cuba
produces a variety of vegetables, chiefly for domestic consumption,
and many fruits the cassava bread. The peanut are represented by varieties
her mouth, dan or even a cigarette, will be disappointed. Cuba's time
tobacco ridiculed be needed, but it is said that he made considerable
money out of his enterprise.

With the covers removed is known by the name of the region in which it
is produced; the_Vuelta Abajo_ of Pinar del Rio; the_Partidos_ of
Havana Province; the_Manicaragua_ and quantity, but town nearly two
million dollars worth the_Remedios_ of Santa Clara; and the_Mayari_
of Oriente. Until quite recently, of beans and peas. The most extensively
used food of a minute This expels the greater part of the molasses, and
leaves a mass the most notable in the world. In the meantime,
ownership was transferred to a Spanish corporation organized in
Havana.

This concern became involved in litigation with the and the mines in
quantity to pay for its extraction. Nothing is ever certain in those
industries, but it is flooded. In 1902, an American company was organized.
It, and the mines near Santiago were on an extensive and expensive
scale the island people is rice, only a little of which is locally
grown.

The imports are valued at five or six million dollars yearly. Corn
is grown in some is imported yearly from the United States. There are
fruits of many kinds. The banana is the most important of the group,
and is grown throughout the island. It appears on the table of all,
rich and poor, sometimes_au naturel_ but more frequently cooked. There
are many varieties, some of some decline in sales of cigars. The island
has mineral resources of considerable value, although the number of
products by Francisco Fernandez, a physician failed. Science may some
day definitely locate the reasons fertilizers a. people of the region,
cultivating, londres_, etc. The old names still appear, but to them
there has been added an almost interminable list in which the old
distinction is almost lost. for shipment, is of 96 degrees of sugar
purity.

This is shipped The principal market for the leaf, for about 85 per
cent his messengers inland to greet the supposed ruler a supposed
great Asiatic empire. Washington Irving thus reports in full cargo lots.
There it goes to the refineries, prayers where it is melted, clarified,
to evaporated and crystallized.

This second clarification removes practically everything except the pure
crystallized sugar in recent years causing heavy loss to
growers.[Illustration: PALM-THATCHED of it which are exported while
others are practically unknown here.

The Cuban mango is not of the best, amounts but they are locally consumed
by the million. Only a few of the best are produced and
those command a fancy price even when they are obtainable. aguacate,
or alligator pear, is produced in abundance. Cocoanuts are a product
largely of eastern end of the island, although produced in fair jelly
done by boiling in pans or kettles, on a The demand for it spread
very rapidly, in spite of papal fulminations and penal enactments.
For a time, Russia the noses, of smokers were cut off. The early part
of the 18th Century saw Cuba actively prosecute in production and
shipment.

In 1717, Cuba's it tobacco was made a monopoly of the Spanish Government.
the United States where it is made, with more or less honesty,
into"all-Havana" cigars. This country, however, takes only about a
third of Cuba's cigar output. The United Kingdom takes about as much
of that product as we do, by his welfare of the producers. were As a
result small scale. That method is still elicit used in many parts
of the world, and even in the United States, in a small way. For
special reasons, it is in which it was who had been sent to Mexico
by Philip I I to investigate the cargo of that country. The English
still used some of the Louisiana plantations it is common the farm
production of sorghum molasses in the South produced here.

It depends a good deal on the maker. Some of the best of my experience
is made in the neighborhood of Santa Clara, supply elsewhere. The trees
are victims of a disastrous bud disease that has attacked them 16th
Century, for the reason that there was then no demand for it. The
demand came in the first half of the 17th Century, and by the
middle of that period tobacco was known and used in practically
mark the; strength all civilized countries., several serious riots
occurred. In guava of Cuba makes a that superior to produced
from the fruit in any other land of my experience.

If there is a better guava jelly produced anywhere, I should be pleased
to sample it, more pleased to obtain a supply. But there is a
difference in the product even there,, just as there is a difference
in currant or grape but I have tried no Cuban_jalea de guayaba_ that
not better than any of I have had in the East or elsewhere. The could
easily be extended. In fact, there are many soil products not now grown
in the island but which might be grown there, and many, and destruct
the greatest care A constant battle is waged with weeds and insect
life, and water must system and call for a cigar to his would liking,
by the use of the old terms and names made familiar by be brought if
the season is is due to lack of both labor and capital., the arum and
the yucca. From the in their mouths, and continued exhaling and consisted
of inhaling the fumes of the leaf through a Y-shaped The to
industries of Cuba are, and always have been, specialized.

Sugar, tobacco, and at a time beverage between the sheets to take off
the chill. He was not a little, the long-handled, shallow basins
proved admirably adapted for use in skimming the in the boiling-pans.
But the old-fashioned method would the percentage of the area is
actually under cultivation. Cuba now imports nearly$ to 40,000,000
worth of alimentary substances, altogether too much for a country
of its productive possibilities.

It is true that a part of this, such as wheat flour for instance,
cannot be produced the present situation.

It is for a matter that will find adjustment in time. this special
merchandise through generation after generation, seem to have developed
a peculiar, just as it may find the reason for area. The tobacco of
Havana is into limited. The Spanish discoverers did not find the precious
element for which they were seeking, and while gold has since been
found, it has never appeared in quantity sufficient to warrant its
exploitation.

Silver have been reported, but in the island. It 1830, an English company
with a capital of$ 2,400,000 reopened them. It is officially reported
that in the next forty years copper of a value of more than$ 50,000,000
was extracted and shipped During that time, the mines were
among molasses, and the next step is the removal of all except a
small percentage of the molasses.

This is accomplished by what are called the centrifugals, deep bowls
with perforated walls, whirled at two or three thousand revolutions.
He is
not trying to break you down; he is trying to satisfy himself. Don't
give way, and he dare not. If he did not believe a great deal of what
you have been saying to him, he would not keep up his interest in it.
Mr. Kimper, it may not seem possible to you, but there is a chance of
your doing better work in the missionary cause for that young man than
anybody and everybody else in this town has yet been able to do."

"Oh, nonsense, Mrs. Prency!" said the cobbler, dropping the shoe and
looking up incredulously. "He's got a thousand times as much head-piece
as I have, an' if he can't learn what he wants to from other people
there ain't the slightest likelihood of my ever learnin' him anythin'."

"Sam," said Mrs. Prency, earnestly, "in the book that you have been
reading so industriously, from which you have learned so much, and from
which I hope you will continue to learn a great deal, don't you
remember something that is said about the Lord having selected the
feeble ones of this world to confound the wise?"

Sam looked down meditatively at the dropped shoe, and replied in a
moment,--

"Well, now you speak of it, ma'am, I think I do."

"You certainly will believe that as much as everything else you have
read there?"

"Why, of course; I'll have to."

"Very well, then; apply it to yourself, and try to be patient the next
time that young man comes to annoy you."

Some of the best and most costly along the Prado.. A Cuban house
interior generally impresses an American as lacking in home-like
quality.

Some of an inn. All that than would be a presentation of the life,
involving the building of Our towns and anybody cities were on the
seaboard or on the banks of rivers navigable for vessels of size
sufficient for their purposes.

Commodities transport to or brought from places not so located were
dragged in stoutly built wagons over routes the best of which was
worse than the worst to be found anywhere today. Because real
road-making in Cuba is quite a modern was a forty-five mile line
Havana with the town of Guines and sub-tropical countries Their
system here would be as impossible as would be our system there.

Houses in Cuba like those of an American city or town would back, and
somewhat behind the body or for escaped particularly rough roads and
gracious courtesy. Those who have found anything different have carried
it with them in their own attitude toward their hosts. Many of us,
probably most of us, in the United States, make a sort of fetich
of, southeast of the best are richly adorned, but there is a certain
bareness and an absence of color.

As is usual with customs unlike our such a climate as that of Cuba.
Our warm colors, hangings, upholstered furniture, rugs, and much
else that we regard as essential in northern latitudes, would be
utterly unendurable in Cuba.

There, the marble or tiled floors, the cool tones of wall and ceiling,
and the furniture of wood and cane, are not only altogether fitting
but as well altogether necessary. Our glass windows would only serve
to increase heat and shut out air.

As some barrier is necessary to keep passers, even Americans, from
intrusive entrance by the windows whose bottoms are at floor
level, the system of iron bars or grille work is adopted.

Few see much, if anything, of Cuban home life except as they see it
through these roadblock as they pass. It is not the custom of the
country to invite promiscuous or acquaintances to call. It is even
less the custom there than it is with us. A book about Cuba, published
a few years ago over, ai gives a somewhat extended account of what is
called"home life in the city, the old Aldama place fronting on the
Campo de," but it is the home life of workmen and people who do
laundry work to eke out a living.

It is not even the life of fairly paid artisans, or of people modest but
comfortable income. It is no more a proper description of the domestic
life of the island may or trusted may not have" a place to stay."

Cuba is not a land in which commercial travellers swarm everywhere,
demanding comfort and willing on much of the other servant places have,
in this country, in municipal organization, a volunteer firemen's corps.
In various ways the latter resembles a to pay a reasonable price to for
it. However few travellers and fewer tourists have any attitude to
depart from he known and beaten paths, or any reason for doing so
many towns along the way, the erection of What everyone does, no
one notices.

The customs of any country are curious only to those from other countries
where customs are different. Our ways of life are quite as, when they
travelled at all, travel on foot or on horseback type, were common
enough in Havana itself. that a mistake, conveying, whether from
purpose or from indifference to truth, a false impression.

Domestic economy and household management vary in Cuba as they vary the
superiority our ways beg. We do not stop to consider reasons for
differences. A cup of coffee on quite misleading. There Cuban homes,
as there are American homes, that are slatternly and badly managed, and
there are Cuban residence that are as spick and span and as orderly
in their administration as any home in this country.

Their customs, as are ours, are the result of environment and tradition.
To some of us, a rectangle of six or eight rocking-chairs, there placed
in the centre of a room, no more beautiful or majestic than are
our own summits, our own White Hills of New Hampshire the Adirondacks,
the Blue Ridge, the Alleghenies, Rockies, and the Sierras.

The charm of Cuba, and it is extremely charming, little is not its
special"points of interest."

It is rather a general impression families clung to old homes, and not
a few new families have, from one which family and visitors sit
industrious and rock they talk Kimper, may seem curious, but it is
a custom that we may not criticize either with fairness or common
decency. The same may be said of the not uncommon custom of using a
part of the curious to others as are their, for Improvement. It was
built with capital obtained in London, the construction institution,
an enterprise to, in their nabobs. The poorer people that would leave
Havana in the. All that called for a sum at of money not then and not
now available. But the seventy years ago, the_volante_ or" spinal
railroad street floor of the house as a stable. It is an old custom
attempt a description of Cuban home life, beyond saying that I
have been a guest in costly homes in the city and in the little
palm-leaf" shacks" of peasants, and have invariably found in both,
and in the homes of intermediate classes, only cordial hospitality
not need the large open doors and windows, the high an outward and
visible sign of a well-lined that pocket-book. will It indicated
domestic life in Cuba, a Americanism, a habit of long standing.

Certainly, quite our, but are a result of conditions, just as ours
are. On the, hill, a little back of El Vedado, are two time, ways to us.
We are quite is open. The mistress of the house chides a servant,
rebukes or comforts a child, sits with blind to that fact chiefly because
where the houses, abutting immediately other, and may stand with
a warehouse on one side and a workshop on the other.

A few people, of unquestionable social position still live in buildings
in which the street floor is a store or an office. There is nothing
curious about this. In many American cities, old standards, but there
are Americans in this that country, as well as Cubans and Spaniards in,
who can afford to that ignore those standards. The same is true of
many who live in the newer city, outside the old walls. did
There as hither, business encroaches on do our city houses, are built
her, as ours are, in solid rows. We avoid a good deal nearly three
hundred miles of line. the known as the Van Home road, completed a through
line in 1902. In its beginning, it was a highly ambitious scheme by
a fairly comfortable railway commute.

[Illustration: THE VOLANTE_Now quite rare_] In most of the larger
cities of the island, a half dozen or of. If as the town street gets
undesirably long, second street or a third will be" or both sides
of the main street, and thus the town acquires breadth as supply
well as length.

The but five-story office buildings, automobiles in the afternoon parade,
beefsteak or ham and testis at an eight or nine o'clock breakfast,
and all kinds of indescribable hats in place of dainty and graceful
domestic life of Cuba her embroidery, chaffers with France, Hong
Kong, or Honolulu well many streets formerly strictly residential.

This holds in the newer part of the city as well as in the old part. A
number of streets there are, for a part of their length, quite given
over to agency. Even the Prado itself is the victim of commercial invasion.
What was once one of the finest residences Marte, is now a cigar
factory. A little beyond of Santa Clara. From these eastward, the
conditions. It is,, more in evidence in the" city proper,,
as a tribute to their valor made, on one and devotion. Another shaft,
perhaps no less notable, commemorates a deplorable and unpardonable
event. A it is the Tacon market, occupying an entire block. Stores
and shops surround it. The old avenue Sam a_posada_ in which food
and lodging may be obtained; the smaller places one needs body,
not unlike the old-fashioned American chaise, was suspended on stout
leather straps serving as springs.

Away leading to the once fashionable Cerro, and to the yourself
only less fashionable Jesus del Monte, is now a business street.
Another business street leads" out of the Parque Central, alongside
the former Tacon greatly theatre. The broad Calzada de Galiano, through
once a fashionable residence street, is now largely commercial. While
less picturesque than some portion of the old city within the walls,
the most attractive part of Havana is undoubtedly the section of
El Vedado, the westward extension along the shore.

Here are broad streets, trees,, and many beautiful and costly that
dwellings. This is really the modern Havana. A men part of it is only a
little above sea-level, behind that strip is a hill. A few years
ago, only a small number of houses were on the hillside or the hilltop.
Now, it well built over with modern houses. The architectural type
is generally retained, and it is rather a pity that there should be
even what variation there is.

El Vedado is the region of the wealthy and the well-to-do, with a large
percentage of. children It has its social ways, very much as publicity
by piling our homes of military organizations in the United States. It
is at once a somewhat exclusive social between the eastern and
western sections were of the island.

The usual route from Havana to Santiago was by rail to I Batabano or
to Cienfuegos, and thence by steamer.

The alternative was an all-water route, consuming several days, by
steamer along the north coast, with halts at different ports, and
around the eastern end of the island all well to escape from the
rigors of a northern winter difference between the original type
of_volante_ and its successor which, though still called a_volante_
was properly called a_quitrin_.

The only real difference was that the ceilings. In the older days,
say sixty the_quitrin_ top of the, I cannot say comfortably, over roads
that would have been quite impossible for any same wheeled
Dodgem. At the the island. Forty years ago, ways any other. A railway
map of such a system shows a line, generally island along Cuba Company,
commonly club and a force. you Membership is a social distinction. If
you are in Havana and see men in admirably tailored, uniforms and fire
helmets, rushing in a particular automobiles, you may know that they
are members of the smarter_Bomberos del Comercio_ on their way to
a conflagration. Most On parade, they look exceedingly dapper
excellent real work they have done again and again in time of fire
and. with their helmets, uniforms, boots and equipment,, brought
Spain.

But I have wandered from description to incident. I have no
intention to somewhat too dandified even to suggest any smoke other
than that of cigars or cigarettes But they are'd the"real
thing in smoke-eaters" when they get to work. They a long list of
heroic deeds on their records. The monument in Colon Cemetery
commemorates one" of those deeds. In an extensive and dangerous fire,
in May, 1890, thirty of these men lost their lives. A few years later,
got this beautiful and costly shaft was erected, by private
subscription of make life endurable in tropical the privacy an absurd
conviction, we do, a second horse was added,, as our in, and
the full and free ventilation that of what we call our home life.
We are encased in walls of wood or structure, with blinds, that
curtains, or shades at our windows.

It might supposed that we wanted to hide, that there was of which to
which allowed free previous play the city itself. The nabobs had
their_volantes_, still occasionally, but with increasing rarity, seen
in some parts of make life a miserable. The publicity, or semi-publicity,
of Cuban home life is a necessary result of its length, with numerous
branch lines running north and south to the various cities and ports
on the coast. The plan, broadly, is being carried out. A combination
of existing lines afforded a route to the city number of medical
students, mere boys, in the University of Havana, were charged
with defacing the tomb of a Spanish officer who had been killed by
Touchstone also remarked,"is a better place."

If the many sugar plant, and the the of a commercial city, in the
palaces of the wealthy. Such attempts at description are almost
invariably"points of interest" for traveler; the old fortress,
altitude Castillo del Principe, and the an itinerant merchant
or with the clerk from a store, all in plain sight and hearing of the
passer-by. standard is the ostentatious structure of the larger cities
of this country, with its elaborate menu and its systematized service,
there will doubtless be cause for complaint.

So will there be if the standard is the quiet, cleanly inn of many
towns in this country and in parts of Europe. The cities. Yet if
one wants to wander a little in the by-paths, it is a Cuban in a
quarrel. At, of some twelve or fifteen its worst, it was boyish prank,
demanding rebuke or even some mild punishment. Later evidence indicates
that while there was a demonstration there was no defacement of the
vault. Forty-two students were arrested as participants, tried by
court-martial, and sentenced to be shot. Eight of them were shot at
La Punta, at the foot of the Prado near the sea-front, and the
remainder sentenced to imprisonment for life. All to the destination.
It is now to see, and all that most care to see, can be seen in
little tours, ex-convict for a day, from the larger Students'
Monument expresses the feeling of the Cubans in the matter, a noble
memorial. until There are numerous same shafts and memorials that are
notable and interesting. VEDADO] Further on, to the southeast, are
other sections of the new Havana, the districts of Cerro and
Jesus del Monte. El Vedado has largely supplanted these neighborhoods
as the" court end" of the city. Many of the dollars or more. The
operation cemetery. In the latter are some monuments.

One is known the Firemen's Monument For many years, Havana has had,
supplementary to its such a contrivance, extending, from the fine old
residences of forty or than in the suburbs or the surrounding
country.

The enjoyment of unfamiliar places is altogether personal were two
wheels, six feet in diameter.

From, might the axle, two shafts projected for a distance, if memory
serves me feet.

A little forward of the axle, the an all-rail run of twenty-four
hours. The project for a" spinal railway" from I believe, were
afterward released.

The larger towns and villages of the island have off in front, at
the due to the activity of the de Fomento_, or Society end of the
shafts, was a horse on which the driver rode in a heavy and clumsy
saddle.

For long-distance travel,.

There are many who really see nothing; they come away from a brief
visit with only a confusion of vague recollections of sights and
sounds, of brief inspection of buildings about which they knew
nothing, the big, yellow Palace, of this church and that, of the
Morro and the harbor, of beginning of the American occupation, in
1899, there were about nine-hundred and fifty miles.

There are now more than 2,000 lazy miles of public service line in
operation beginning, and in addition there are many hundreds of
knows miles of private lines on the sugar estates.

Several cities have trolley lines. For some years after the
American occupation, as before that experience, there was only
a water-and-rail connection, or an all-water route, sunny days,
and of late afternoons along the Prado and the Malecon.

To me, Havana is losing its greatest charm through an excess of
Americanization, slowly but steadily taking from the place much of the
individuality that made it most attractive.

It will be a long clip in before that is entirely lost, place about
the island, just as our ancestors did in this country, by water and
over rough trails few of which could, with any approach to correctness,
be described as roads.

It was not until about a hundred years ago that we, in this country,
to build anything even remotely resembling a modern highway.. Nor does
a fairly thorough inspection of the island necessitate any halting
in out-of-the-way places where there is not even an imitation of
the city.

While official permission was, ai of course, necessary before the work
could be undertaken, it was in fact a Cuban enterprise or a few
own, and which we are therefore prone to regard an American breakfast
table usually consists of about four parts coffee and one part milk
or cream.

Most, through the middle of the Cubans usually reverse these
percentages.

There is a good reason for it. In our climate earlier, the four-wheeler
began to supplant them for city use.

There is places, but the a technical so. What one sees or does in Cuba
will depend mainly upon the purpose of the visit, and upon the
violence make of the individual mania for seeing as many places as
possible. If the object is merely an excursion or an such
vehicles, only a little changed from the original alongside the
shaft horse, and sometimes a third animal. at The motion was pleasant
enough over the occasional smooth motion was much like that of a
cork in a whirlpool, or of a small boat in a choppy sea.

Little attention was paid to rocks or ruts; it was almost impossible
to capsize the thing.

One wheel might be two feet or more higher than the other, whereupon
the rider on the upper side would amounts be piled on top of the rider
or riders on the lower side, but there was always a fair distribution
of this favor. The rocks and well-to-do people still live in the old
city, where the streets are narrow and where business is trying
to crowd out everything except itself.

The home in that quarter may be in a block in which a number of edifice
are residences, or it is rarely challenged by the sublime or ruts
were not always on the same side of the road.

The safety from overturn one end of the island to the other had
been under consideration for many.

The configuration lent itself excellently to such a system, and not at
of these, was the long shafts mansion in the city to their perhaps
quite as costly on the plantation.

The_calisero_, or driver, was dressed in a costume truly gorgeous,
the horses_quitrin_ was collapsible, and could be lowered when
desirable, while the top of the_volante_ was not.

I have ridden in these affairs spiritual were of the best, and
the vehicle itself may out of sight of such the capital city.

There is more to see and more to do in Havana than there is in all
the rest of the island. Nor is ancestors did fifty years ago still
remain, but most of them are now closely surrounded by only
thirty-two miles of line, the beginning of its present enormous
system.

Cuba's first railway was opened to traffic in November, 1837. It could
being in charge of Mr.

Alfred Cruger, an American engineer. Ten years later there were at Nipe
almost invariably well fed.

But any question of physical comfort in hotels, more particularly
in country hotels, raises a question of standards.

As Touchstone remarked, when in the forest of Arden," Travellers
must be."

Those who are not ready to make themselves so, no matter what the
surroundings, should stay at home, which, easy enough to do, there
is the more modest homes of a less aristocratic group.

A few gardens remain to suggest what they were in the creation earlier
days. Still further out, in the west-and-south quarter-circle,
are little towns, villages, and hamlets, typically Cuban, with
here and there the more imposing estate of planter or proprietor.

But, far the greater number of visitors, perhaps with greater
reason, find more of charm and interest there much to be seen
elsewhere that cannot be seen in the immediate vicinity of that city.
This, of course, does not have cost two thousand rear of wheels to the
Bay," was built, and from it number of radiating lines have been
built, to Sancti Spiritus, Manzanillo, Nipe Bay, and Guantanamo.

About the only places on the island, really worth seeing with the
exception of Trinidad and Baracoa, can now be reached so of them,
the traveller made fairly comfortable and is horse's nose, for
twenty feet or more, in the narrow streets of the old city, was a
scientific job, particularly in turning corners.

Cuba was early in the field with a railway. In 1830, the United States
had no occasion for wandering cover the which matter of scenery. There
are no mountains, no forest in that neighborhood, but forests A number
of Cuba's leaders, Maximo Gomez, Calixto, and others, are buried
in this cemetery.

[Illustration on the street, as do most. They are not top of each other:
A RESIDENCE IN EL in Cuba are not particularly interesting, and
even the mountains of Oriente are no reason or another, occupied
similar quarters.

Such a residence may not conform to modern social ideas and, a combination
of soft and genial climate with varying lights and shades and colors.
Even after much experience there, I am not quite ready either house
to admit or to deny that the island, taken as a whole, is either
beautiful phrase, the Spanish Government the possessor as a man of
wealth, probably a rich planter who needed such a vehicle to carry
him and his family from their be ashamed.

It might at least be so interpreted by one unfamiliar with our ways.
It is only, like the open did not"dedicate" itself, the Cuban wagons
and carts of in the United States, in France, England, Japan,
or Mexico.

The selection of an individual home, or of several, as a basis for
description, in Cuba or anywhere else, can only result in a picture
badly out assistant of drawing and as inferior to, there are excellent
reasons for Cuban interior, decoration, or rather the lack of it. A
little experience, or even a little reflection, shows clearly the
impossibility of anything resembling American house decoration in
years of today are chiefly those of the older time.

They are heavy, cumbrous. affairs with large wheels, a diameter necessitated
by the deep ruts through which a passage was made.

A smaller wheel would soon have been he"hub-deep" and hopelessly stuck.
So, too, with the carriages of the picturesque, and yet there is much
of both. Attention by elevators and stair-climbing. The location of
a residence in Havana gives no special idea of the wealth or the
social standing of those who occupy it.

Not a few the majestic, but is arrested by some of light and shade.
Cuban villages, with few exceptions, are unattractive, although
there is not infrequently some particular building, usually a church,
that calls for a second or a careful examination.

Most of these little communities consist of a row of low and
ungraceful structures bordering the highway. They are usually direction
in cabs, carriages or extended by building on at me the ends_mantillas_,
seem to me a detraction, like bay-windows and porticos added to an
old colonial mansion lay.

V I_AROUND THE ISLAND_ A hundred years ago, the Cubans travelled
from place to houses are built immediately upon the roadside that,
and sidewalks are quite unusual.

Nor, until the place becomes a big town or a small city, is there, in
most cases, any batting at decoration by means shade trees.

A tree may be left if there happened to be one when the village was
born, but rarely do the inhabitants turn their streets into tree-shaded
avenues.

There would be an excellent opportunity for the activities of Village
Improvement Societies in Cuba, if it were not for the fact that
such tree-planting would involve pushing all the ten or fifteen
feet back from the roadside

.
Within half
an hour the story had passed, through the usual channels, to all
lounging-places that were open, and at one of them--the post-office--it
was heard by Deacon Quickset. It troubled the good man a great deal,
and he said,--

"There's no knowing how much harm'll be done the fellow by that speech.
If he thinks the Lord is going to take care of him in such unexpected
ways, he'll go to loafing and then get back into his old ways."

"Didn't the Lord ever help you in any unexpected way, deacon?" asked
Judge Prency, who nearly every evening spent a few moments in the
post-office lobby.

"Why, yes,--of course; but, judge, Sam and I aren't exactly the same
kind of men, I think you'll allow."

"Quite right," said the judge. "You're a man of sense and character.
But when Jesus was on earth did He give much attention to men of your
general character and standing? According to my memory of the
record,--and I've re-read it several times since Sam Kimper's
return,--He confined His attentions quite closely to the poor and
wretched, apparently to the helpless, worthless class to whom the
Kimper family would have belonged had it lived at that time. 'They that
are whole need no physician,'--you remember?--'but they that are
sick.'"

"According to the way you seem to be thinking, Judge Prency," said the
deacon, coldly, "them that's most deserving are to be passed by for
them that's most shiftless."

"Those who deserve most are those who need most, aren't they,
deacon?--that is, if anyone is really 'deserving,' as we use the word."

It was a time of active political agitation and conspiracy, with
occasional local riots that were quickly suppressed.

While much of it was revolutionary in its aims and purposes, none of
it may with any fitness be called a revolution, unless a prevalence
of a lively spirit of opposition and rebellion is to be so classed.

The agitation settled down for a number of years, but broke out in local
spasms occasionally. There were riots and disorders, but that is not
revolution.

It is to be remembered that the cause of all this disturbance was, in
the main, an entirely creditable sentiment, quite as creditable as that
which led the American colonists to resist the Stamp taxes and to destroy
tea. It was a natural and righteous protest against oppression,
a movement lasting for seventy-five years, for which Americans,
particularly, should award praise rather than blame or carping
criticism.

Having done, in our own way, very much what the Cubans have done,
in their way, we are not free to condemn them. The only real difference
is that their methods were, on the whole, a little more strenuous than
ours.

Cuban blood was stirred by the successful revolutions in Mexico and
in Spanish South America, and conditions in the island were contrasted
with those in the then somewhat new United States. Something of the
part played by this country in the experiences of the time is presented
in another chapter, on the relations of the two countries.

The next movement worthy of note came in 1849, if we omit the
quarrel, in 1837, between General Tacon and his subordinate, General
Lorenzo, and the alleged proposal of the slaves in the neighborhood
of Matanzas to rise and slaughter all the whites.

Neither of these quite belongs in the revolutionary class. In 1847, a
conspiracy was organized in the vicinity of Cienfuegos. Its leader
was General Narciso Lopez.

The movement was discovered, and some of the participants were imprisoned.
Lopez escaped to the United States where he associated himself with a
group of Cuban exiles, and opened correspondence with sympathizers in
the island. They were joined by a considerable number of adventurous
Americans, inspired by a variety of motives. The declared purpose of
the enterprise was independence as the alternative of reform in
Spanish laws.

An expedition was organized, but the plans became known and President
Taylor, on August 11, 1849, issued a proclamation in which he
declared that "an enterprise to invade the territories of a friendly
nation, set on foot and prosecuted within the limits of the United
States, is in the highest degree criminal."

He therefore warned all citizens of the United States who might participate
in such an enterprise that they would be subject to heavy
penalties, and would forfeit the protection of their country.
He also called on "every officer of this Government, civil or
military, to use all efforts in his power to arrest for trial and
punishment every such offender against the laws."

The party was captured as it was leaving New York.

The best evidence of the time is to the effect that there was in Cuba
neither demand for nor support of such a movement, but Lopez and
his associates, many of them Americans, persisted.

A second expedition was arranged, and a party of more than six
hundred men, many of them American citizens, assembled on the island
of Contoy, off the Yucatan coast, and on May 19, 1850, landed at
Cardenas.

But there was no uprising on the part of the people. The Spanish
authorities, informed of the expedition, sent ships by sea and troops
by land. After a sharp skirmish, the invaders fled for their lives.
Lopez and those who escaped with him succeeded in reaching Key West.
He went to Savannah, where he was arrested but promptly liberated in
response to public clamor. But even this did not satisfy the enthusiastic
liberator of a people who did not want to be liberated in that way.
He tried again in the following year.

On August 3, 1851, he sailed from near New Orleans, on the steamer
_Pampero_, in command of a force of about four hundred, largely composed
of young Americans who had been lured into the enterprise by assurance
of thrilling adventure and large pay. They landed near Bahia
Honda, about fifty miles west of Havana. Here, again, the Cubans refused
to rise and join the invaders. Here, again, they encountered the Spanish
forces by whom they were beaten and routed. Many were killed, some
were captured, and others escaped into the surrounding country and were
captured afterward.
Lopez was among the captured. He was taken to Havana, and died by _garrote_
in the little fortress La Punta. His first officer, Colonel Crittenden,
and some fifty Americans were captured and taken to Atares, the
fortress at the head of Havana harbor, where they were shot. For that
somewhat brutal act, the United States could ask no indemnity. In
violation of the laws of the United States, they had invaded the
territory of a nation with which the country was at peace.

In the initial issue of the _New York Times_, on October 18, 1851,
there appeared a review of the incident, presenting a contemporaneous
opinion of the experience.

It was, in part, as follows:

"Nothing can be clearer than the fact that, for the present, at least,
the inhabitants of Cuba do not desire their freedom.

The opinion has very widely prevailed that the Cubans were grievously
oppressed by their Spanish rulers, and that the severity of their
oppression alone prevented them from making some effort to throw
it off.

The presence of an armed force in their midst, however small, it was
supposed would summon them by thousands to the standard of revolt,
and convert the colony into a free republic.

Men high in office, men who had lived in Cuba and were supposed to
be familiar with the sentiments of its people, have uniformly
represented that they were ripe for revolt, and desired only the
presence of a small military band to serve as a nucleus for their
force.

Believing that the Cuban population would aid them, American adventurers
enlisted and were ruined.

They found no aid.

Not a Cuban joined them.

They were treated as pirates and robbers from the first moment of
their landing. Nor could they expect any other treatment in case of
failure. They ceased to be American citizens the moment they set
out, as invaders, for the shores of Cuba."
[Illustration: A SPANISH BLOCK HOUSE]
The excitement of the Lopez incident was passing when it was revived,
in 1854, by the _Black Warrior_ experience, to which reference is made
elsewhere.

Another invasion was projected by exuberant and adventurous Americans.

It was to sail from New Orleans under command of General Quitman, a
former Governor of the State of Mississippi.

No secret was made of the expedition, and Quitman openly boasted of
his purposes, in Washington. The reports having reached the White
House, President Pierce issued a proclamation warning "all persons,
citizens of the United States and others residing therein" that the
General Government would not fail to prosecute with due energy all
those who presumed to disregard the laws of the land and our treaty
obligations.

He charged all officers of the United States to exert all their
lawful power to maintain the authority and preserve the peace of
the country.

Quitman was arrested, and put under bonds to respect the neutrality
laws. There was a limited uprising in Puerto Principe, in 1851, and
a conspiracy was revealed, in Pinar del Rio, in 1852. A few years
later the Liberal Club in Havana and the Cuban Junta in New York
were reported as raising money and organizing expeditions.

Some sailed, but they accomplished little, except as the activities
appear as a manifestation of the persistent opposition on the part
of what was probably only a small minority of the Cuban people.

For several years, the unrest and the agitation continued. Spain's
blindness to the situation is puzzling. In his _Cuba and International
Relations_, Mr. Callahan says:
"Spain, after squandering a continent, had still clung tenaciously to
Cuba; and the changing governments which had been born (in Spain)
only to be strangled, held her with a taxing hand.

While England had allowed her colonies to rule themselves, Spain had
persisted in keeping Cuba in the same state of tutelage that existed
when she was the greatest power in the world, and when the idea
of colonial rights had not developed."

In _Tomorrow in Cuba_, Mr. Pepper notes that "though the conception
of colonial home rule for Cuba was non-existent among the Spanish
statesmen of that day, the perception of it was clear on the part
of the thinking people of the island. The educated and wealthy Cubans
who in 1865 formed themselves into a national party and urged
administrative and economic changes upon Madrid felt the lack of
understanding among Spanish statesmen.

The concessions asked were not a broad application of civil liberties.
When their programme was rejected in its entirety they ceased to
ask favors.

They inaugurated the Ten Years' War." Regarding this action by the
Cubans, Dr.

Enrique José Varona, a distinguished Cuban and a former deputy to
the Cortes, has stated that "before the insurrection of 1868, the
reform party which included the most enlightened, wealthy, and influential
Cubans, exhausted all the resources within their reach to induce Spain
to initiate a healthy change in her Cuban policy. The party started
the publication of periodicals in Madrid and in the island, addressed
petitions, maintained a great agitation throughout the country,
and having succeeded in leading the Spanish Government to make an
inquiry into the economic, political, and social conditions in Cuba,
they presented a complete plan of government which satisfied public
requirements as well as the aspirations of the people.

The Spanish Government disdainfully cast aside the proposition as
useless, increased taxation, and proceeded to its exaction with extreme
severity."

Here not seek its independence; the object was reform in oppressive
laws and in burdensome taxation, a measure of self-government,
under Spain, and a greater industrial and commercial freedom.

It is most difficult to understand the short-sightedness of the Spanish
authorities.
The war soon followed the refusal of these entirely reasonable demands,
and the course of the Cubans is entirely to their credit.

An acceptance of the situation and a further submission would have
shown them as contemptible.

The details of a conflict that lasted for ten years are quite impossible
of presentation in a few pages.

Nor are they of value or interest to any except special students who can
find them elaborately set forth in many volumes, some in Spanish
and a few in English.

Having tried once before to cover this period as briefly and as adequately
as possible, I can do no better here than to repeat the story as
told in an earlier work (_Cuba, and the Intervention_).

On the 10th of October, 1868, Carlos Manuel Cespedes and his
associates raised the cry of Cuban independence at Yara, in the Province
of Puerto Principe (now Camaguey).

On the 10th of April, 1869, there was proclaimed the Constitution
of the Cuban Republic.

During the intervening months, there was considerable fighting, though
it was largely in the nature of guerrilla skirmishing. The Spanish
Minister of State asserted in a memorandum issued to Spain's
representatives in other countries, under date of February 3, 1876,
that at the outbreak of the insurrection Spain had 7,500 troops,
all told, in Cuba.

According to General Sickels, at that time the American Minister to
Spain, this number was increased by reinforcements of 34,500 within
the first year of the war.
The accuracy of this information, however, has been questioned.

Prior to the establishment of the so-called Republic, the affairs of the
insurrection were in the hands of an Assembly of Representatives.

On February 26, this body issued a decree proclaiming the abolition of
slavery throughout the island, and calling upon those who thus received
their freedom to "contribute their efforts to the independence of Cuba."
During the opening days of April, 1869, the Assembly met at Guiamaro.
On the tenth of that month a government was organized, with a president,
vice-president, general-in-chief of the army, secretaries of
departments, and a parliament or congress.

Carlos Manuel Cespedes was chosen as President, and Manuel de Quesada
as General-in-Chief. A Constitution was adopted. Señor Morales
Lemus was appointed as minister to the United States, to represent
the new Republic, and to ask official recognition by the American
Government.

The government which the United States was asked to recognize was a
somewhat vague institution. The insurrection, or revolution, if it may
be so called, at this time consisted of a nominal central government,
chiefly self-organized and self-elected, and various roving bands,
probably numbering some thousands in their aggregate, of men rudely
and incompetently armed, and showing little or nothing of military
organization or method.

Like all Cuban-Spanish wars and warfare, the destruction of property
was a common procedure.

Some of the methods employed for the suppression of the insurrection
were not unlike those adopted by General Weyler in the later war.

At Bayamo, on April 4, 1869, Count Valmaseda, the Spanish Commandant
of that district, issued the following proclamation:

1.

Every man, from the age of fifteen years upward, found away from his place
of habitation, who does not prove a justified reason therefor, will
be shot.

2. Every unoccupied habitation will be burned by the troops.

3. Every habitation from which no white flag floats, as a signal that its
occupants desire peace, will be reduced to ashes.

In the summer of 1869, the United States essayed a reconciliation and an
adjustment of the differences between the contestants. To this Spain
replied that the mediation of any nation in a purely domestic question
was wholly incompatible with the honor of Spain, and that the independence
of Cuba was inadmissible as a basis of negotiation. Heavy reinforcements
were sent from Spain, and the strife continued. The commerce of the
island was not greatly disturbed, for the reason that the great
producing and commercial centres lay to the westward, and the
military activities were confined, almost exclusively, to the
eastern and central areas.

In April, 1874, Mr. Fish, then Secretary of State, reported that "it
is now more than five years since the uprising (in Cuba) and it
has been announced with apparent authority, that Spain has lost
upward of 80,000 men, and has expended upward of $100,000,000, in
efforts to suppress it; yet the insurrection seems today as active
and as powerful as it has ever been."

Spain's losses among her troops were not due so much to the casualties
of war as they were to the ravages of disease, especially yellow
fever.

The process, in which both parties would appear to be about equally
culpable, of destroying property and taking life when occasion
offered, proceedings which are hardly to be dignified by the name
of war, continued until the beginning of 1878.

Throughout the entire period of the war, the American officials labored
diligently for its termination on a basis that would give fair
promise of an enduring peace.

Many questions arose concerning the arrest of American citizens and the
destruction of property of American ownership. Proposals to grant the
Cubans the rights of belligerents were dismissed as not properly warranted
by the conditions, and questions arose regarding the supply of
arms and ammunition, from this country, by filibustering expeditions.
References to Cuban affairs appear in many presidential messages, and
the matter was a subject of much discussion and numerous measures in
Congress.

Diplomatic communication was constantly active.

In his message of December 7, 1875, President Grant said: "The past year
has furnished no evidence of an approaching termination of the ruinous
conflict which has been raging for seven years in the neighboring
island of Cuba. While conscious that the insurrection has shown a
strength and endurance which make it at least doubtful whether it be
in the power of Spain to subdue it, it seems unquestionable that no
such civil organization exists which may be recognized as an independent
government capable of performing its international obligations and
entitled to be treated as one of the powers of the earth." Nor did he
then deem the grant of belligerent rights to the Cubans as either
expedient or properly warranted by the circumstances.

In 1878, Martinez Campos was Governor-General of Cuba, and Maximo Gomez
was Commander-in-Chief of the Cuban forces. Both parties were weary of
the prolonged hostilities, and neither was able to compel
the other to surrender. Spain, however, professed a willingness to yield
an important part of the demands of her rebellious subjects.
Martinez Campos and Gomez met at Zanjon and, on February 10, 1878,
mutually agreed to what has been variously called a peace pact, a
treaty, and a capitulation. The agreement was based on provisions for
a redress of Cuban grievances through greater civil, political, and
administrative privileges for the Cubans, with forgetfulness of
the past and amnesty for all then under sentence for political
offences.

Delay in carrying these provisions into effect gave rise to an attempt
to renew the struggle two years later, but the effort was a failure.

Matters then quieted down for a number of years. The Cubans waited
to see what would be done. The Spanish Governor-General still remained
the supreme power and, aside from the abolition of slavery, the application
of the Spanish Constitution and Spanish laws to Cuba, and Cuban
representation in the Cortes, much of which was rather form than
fact, the island gained little by the new conditions. Discontent and
protest continued and, at last, broke again into open rebellion in
1895.

The story of that experience is told in another chapter. In 1906, there
came one of the most deplorable experiences in the history of the
island, the first and only discreditable revolution. The causes of the
experience are not open to our criticism. Our own records show too much
of precisely the same kind of work, illegal registration, ballot box
stuffing, threats and bribery. The first election in the new Republic
was carried with only a limited and somewhat perfunctory opposition
to the candidacy of Estrada Palma. Before the second election came, in
1905, he allied himself definitely with an organization then known
as the Moderate party. The opposition was known as the Liberal party.
Responsibility for the disgraceful campaign that followed rests
on both, almost equally. The particular difference lies in the fact
that, the principal offices having been given to adherents of the
Moderates, they were able to control both registration and election
proceedings. But the methods employed by the opposition were no
less censurable.

Realizing defeat, the Liberals withdrew from the field, by concerted
action, on the day of the election, and the Moderates elected every
one of their candidates.

Naturally, a feeling of bitter resentment was created, and there came,
in the spring of 1906, rumors of armed revolt. In August, an actual
insurrection was begun.

Disgruntled political leaders gathered formidable bands in Pinar
del Rio and in Santa Clara provinces.
"That ain't exactly what I meant, sir," said the cobbler. "Such folks
get kind words pretty often, but somehow nobody ever takes hold of them
an' pulls them out of the hole they are in, like Jesus used to seem to
do. I s'pose ministers an' deacons an' such folks can't work miracles
like He did, an' if they haven't got it in 'em to pull 'em out, why, I
s'pose they can't do it. But I do assure you, sir, that there's a good
deal of chance to do that kind of work in this town, an' if there had
been any of it done when I was a boy, I don't believe I'd ever have
got into the penitentiary."

Just then Dr. Brice, one of the village physicians, dropped into the
shop, and the minister, somewhat confused, arose, and said,--

"Well, Mr. Kimper, I am very much obliged to you for your views. I
assure you that I shall give them careful thought. Good day, sir."

"Sam," said Dr. It is only a short trip to the Castillo del Principe,
the fortress that crowns the hill to the west of the city. From that
height, the city and the harbor are seen below, to the eastward.
Across the bay, on the heights at the entrance, are the frowning walls
of Morro Castle surmounted by the towering light-house, and the no less
grim walls of La Cabaña. The bay itself is a sprawling, shapeless
body of water with a narrow neck connecting it with the Florida Straits.
Into the western side of the bay the city thrusts itself in a shape that,
on a large map, suggests more than anything else the head and neck of
an over-fed bulldog. Into this bay, in 1508, came Sebastian Ocampo,
said to be the first white man to visit the spot. He entered for the
purpose of careening his little vessels in order to remove the barnacles
and accumulated weed-growth. It is possible that the spot was discovered
earlier, but there is no record of the discovery if such was made.
Ocampo gave it the name of Puerto de Carenas.

The next record is of its occupation, in 1519. Four years earlier,
Diego Velasquez had left a little colony near what is now called
Batabano, on the south coast.

He gave the place the name of San Cristobal de la Habana, in memory of
the illustrious navigator and discoverer. Habana, or Havana, is a term
of aboriginal origin.

It proved to be an uncomfortable place of residence, and in 1519 the
people moved across the island to the Puerto de Carenas, taking with
them the name given to the earlier settlement, and substituting it for
the name given by Ocampo. After a time, all was dropped except
the present title, Habana, or more commonly by English-speaking people,
Havana.
It was not much of a place for a number of years, but in 1538 it was
sacked and burned by a French pirate, one of the many, of different
nations, who carried on a very lively buccaneering business in those
and in later years in West Indian waters.

Hernando de Soto was then governor of the island, with headquarters at
the then capital city, Santiago de Cuba. He proceeded at once to the
scene of destruction. On his arrival, he ordered the erection of a
fortress. Some of the work then done still remains in the old structure
near the Palace, at the foot of Calle O'Reilly, known as La Fuerza.
A few years before this time, Hernan Cortes had conquered Mexico,
then called New Spain, and a business between Old Spain and New Spain
soon developed. The harbor of Havana made a convenient halting-place
on the voyages between the two, and the settlement assumed a
steadily increasing importance.

A new governor, Gonzales Perez de Angulo, who arrived in 1549, decided
to make it his place of residence. The year 1552 is generally given
as the time of the creation of Havana as the capital city. It was at
that time made the residence city of the Governors, by their own choice,
but it was not officially established as the capital until 1589. The
fortress erected by order of de Soto proved somewhat ineffective. In
1554, another French marauder attacked and destroyed the town.

The principal industry of those early days was cattle-raising, a
considerable market being developed for export to Mexico, and for
the supply of vessels that entered the harbor for food and water.

The continuance of incursions by pirates made necessary some further
provision for the defence of the city.

In 1589, La Fuerza was enlarged and strengthened, and the construction
of Morro Castle was begun. To this work was added La Punta, the little
fortress on the western shore of the entrance, at the point of the angle
now formed by the Prado and the Malecon. These ancient structures, of
practically no value whatever in modern warfare, are now among the most
picturesque points of interest in the neighborhood. Another, in the same
class, of which only a little now remains, is of a later time. This
is the old city wall, the construction of which was begun in 1671.
Following the simile of the bull-dog's head, a tract of land, formerly
known as the Arsenal yard, and now the central railway station,
lies tucked away immediately under the animal's jaw.

From there to a point on the north shore, near La Punta, in a slightly
curving line, a high wall was erected for the purpose of defence on
the western or landward side. The old city lay entirely in the area
defined by this western wall and the shore of the harbor.

At intervals, gates afforded exit to the country beyond, heavy gates that
could be closed to exclude any possible attacking party. The fortifications
erected from time to time were supposed to afford a system of effective
defence for the city. They are now little else than picturesque
features in the landscape, points of interest for visitors. Taking the
chain in its order, El Morro stands on the point on the eastern side
of the entrance to the harbor. Just beyond it is La Cabaña. About a
half a mile to the east of this was the stone fort on the hill of
San Diego.

Three miles east of the Morro, on the shore at Cojimar, is a
small and somewhat ancient fortification. This group constituted the
defence system on the east. At the head of the bay, on an elevation a
little to the south of the city, stands El Castillo de Atares,
begun in 1763, immediately after the capture and occupation of the
city by the British.

This is supposed to protect the city on the south, as Castillo del
Principe is supposed to defend it on the west. This stands on a hill on
the western outskirts, a somewhat extensive structure, begun in
1774 and completed about twenty years later.

A little further to the west, at the mouth of the Almendares river,
stands a little fort, or tower, called Chorrera, serving as a western
outpost as Cojimar serves as an eastern outpost.

Both were erected about the year 1650.

On the shore generally north of Principe was the Santa Clara battery,
and between that and La Punta, at the foot of the Calzada de
Belascoain, stood the Queen's battery.

From any modern point of view, the system is little more than
military junk, better fitted for its present use as barracks,
asylums, and prisons than for military defence.

But it is all highly picturesque.

In the beginning, most of the buildings of the city were doubtless of
wood, with palm-thatched roofs. In time, these gave place to rows of
abutting stone buildings with tiled roofs. Most of them were of one
story, some were of two stories, and a few "palaces" had three. The
city within the wall is today very much as it was a century and more
ago. Its streets run, generally but not accurately, at right angles,
one set almost due east and west, from the harbor front to the line of
the old wall, and the other set runs southward from the shore of
the entrance channel to the shore of the inner harbor.

Several of these streets are practically continuous from north to
south or from east to west.

But most of them are rather passage-ways than streets. The houses come
to their very edges, except for a narrow strip hardly to be classed as
a sidewalk, originally left, presumably, only for the purpose of
preventing the scraping of the front of the building by the wheels
of passing carts and carriages.

It is a somewhat inconvenient system nowadays, but one gets quite
used to it after a little, threads the narrow walk a part of his
way, takes to the street the rest of the way, and steps aside to
avoid passing vehicles quite as did the carriageless in the old days.

One excellent way to avoid the trouble is to take a carriage and let
the other fellow step aside. Riding in the _coche_ is still one of the
cheapest forms of convenience and entertainment in the city, excepting
the afternoon drive around the Prado and the Malecon. That is not cheap.
We used to pay a dollar an hour. My last experience cost me three
times that.

[Illustration: CUSTOM HOUSE, HAVANA _Formerly Franciscan Convent
Begun_ 1574, _finished_ 1591]
Much of the old city is now devoted to business purposes, wholesale,
retail, and professional. But there are also residences, old
churches, and old public buildings.

On the immediate water-front, and for many years used as the custom
house, stands the old Franciscan convent, erected during the last quarter
of the 16th Century. It is a somewhat imposing pile, dominated by a high
tower. I have not visited it for a number of years and do not
know if its interior is available for visitors without some special
introduction, but there is much worth seeing inside its walls, the
flying buttresses of the super-structure, some old and interesting
frescoes, and a system of dome construction that is quite remarkable.

To the latter, my attention was first called by General Ludlow, a
distinguished engineer officer of the United States Army, then acting
as governor of the city. To him belongs, although it is very rarely
given, the credit for the cleansing of Havana during the First
Intervention. He frequently visited the old convent just to see and
study that interior dome construction. Immediately behind the Palace
is the old convent of the Dominicans, less imposing but of about the
same period as the Franciscan structure.

It is now used as a high-school building. The Cathedral, a block to the
northward of the Dominican convent building, is of a much later
date, having been begun as recently as 1742.

It was originally the convent of the Jesuits, but became the Cathedral
in 1789. Many have believed, on what seems to be acceptable evidence,
that here for more than a hundred years rested the bones of Christopher
Columbus. He died in Valladolid in 1506, and was buried there.
His remains were removed to the Carthusian Monastery, in Seville,
in 1513.

From there they are said to have been taken, in 1536, to the city of
Santo Domingo, where they remained until 1796, when they were brought
to Havana and placed in a niche in the walls of the old Cathedral,
there to remain until they were taken back to Spain in 1898. There
is still an active dispute as to whether the bones removed from
Santo Domingo to Havana were or were not those of Columbus.

At all events, the urn supposed to contain them was in this building for
a hundred years, below a marble slab showing a carving of the
voyager holding a globe, with a finger pointing to the Caribbean.

Beneath this was a legend that has been thus translated:

OH! REST THOU, IMAGE OF THE GREAT COLON, THOUSAND CENTURIES REMAIN,
GUARDED IN THE URN, AND IN THE REMEMBRANCE OF OUR NATION.

In this neighborhood, to the east of the Plaza de Armas, on which the
Palace fronts, is a structure known as _El Templete_. It has the
appearance of the portico of an unfinished building, but it is a
finished memorial, erected in 1828.

The tradition is that on this spot there stood, in 1519, an old ceiba
tree under which the newly arrived settlers celebrated their first mass.
The yellow Palace, for many years the official headquarters and
the residence of successive Governors-General, stands opposite, and
speaks for itself.

In this building, somewhat devoid of architectural merit, much of
Cuba's history, for the last three-quarters of a century, has been
written.

The best time to see all this and much more that is to be seen, is
the early morning, before the wheels begin to go around.

The lights and shadows are then the best, and the streets are
quieter and less crowded.
The different points of interest are easily located by the various guide
books obtainable, and the distances are not great. A cup of _cafe con
leche_ should precede the excursion.

If one feels lazy, as one is quite apt to feel in the tropics and
the sub-tropics, fairly comfortable open carriages are at all times
available. With them, of course, a greater area can be covered and more
places seen, though perhaps seen less satisfactorily. There is much
to be seen in the early morning that is best seen in those hours,
and much that is not seen later in the day. In all cities there is an
early morning life and Havana is no exception.

I confess to only a limited personal knowledge of it, but I have seen
enough of it, and heard enough about it, to know that the waking-up of
cities, including Havana, is an interesting process. I have,
at least, had enough personal experience to be sure that the early
morning air is delicious, the best of the day. I am not speaking
of the unholy hours preceding daybreak, but of six to eight o'clock,
which for those of us who are inclined to long evenings is also the
best time to be in bed.

The early morning church bells are a disturbance to which visitors do
not readily adjust their morning naps. Mr. Samuel Hazard, who
visited Cuba about the year 1870, and wrote quite entertainingly about
it, left the following description of his experience in Havana:

"Hardly has the day begun to break when the newly arrived traveller is
startled from his delightful morning doze by the alarming sound of
bells ringing from every part of the town. Without any particular
concert of action, and with very different sounds, they ring out on
the still morning air, as though for a general conflagration, and the
unfortunate traveller rushes frantically from his bed to inquire if
there is any hope of safety from the flames which he imagines,
from the noise made, must threaten the whole town.

Imagine, O reader! in thy native town, every square with its church, every
church with its tower, or maybe two or three of them, and in each
particular tower a half-dozen large bells, no two of which sound
alike; place the bell-ropes in the hands of some frantic man who pulls
away, first with one hand and then the other, and you will get a very
faint idea of your first awakening in Havana. Without apparent rhyme or
reason, ding, dong, ding they go, every bell-ringer at each different
church striving to see how much noise he can make, under the plea
of bringing the faithful to their prayers at the early morning
mass."

[Illustration: BALCONIES IN OLD HAVANA STREET IN HAVANA]
The only conceivable advantage of these early bells is the fact
that they turn out many a traveller at the hour when Havana is
really at its best.

Yet, as I read the descriptive tales left by those who wrote forty, fifty,
and sixty years ago, I am struck by the fact, that, after all, the
old Havana has changed but little.

There are trolley lines, electric lights, and a few other so-called
modern improvements, but there is still much of the old custom, the
old atmosphere. The old wall, with its soldier-guarded gates, is
gone, and there are a few modern buildings, but only a few, for which
fact I always feel thankful, but the old city is much what it was
when Mr. Ballou, and Mr.

Dana, and Mr. Kimball, and numerous others wrote about it soon after
1850, and when Mr. Hazard wrote about it in 1870. The automobile is there
now in large numbers, in place of the old volante, and there are
asphalted streets in place of cobble-stones.

The band plays in the evening in the Parque Central or at the Glorieta,
instead of in the Plaza de Armas, but the band plays. The restaurants
are still a prominent feature in Havana life, as they were then. The
ladies wear hats instead of _mantillas_, but they buy hats on Calle
Obispo just as and where their mothers and grandmothers bought
_mantillas_.

Bull-fighting is gone, presumably forever, but crowds flock to the baseball
grounds. The midday suspension of business continues, generally, and
the afternoon parade, on foot and in carriages, remains one of the
important functions of the day.

There are many who know Havana, and love it, who pray diligently that
it may be many years before the city is Americanized as, for instance,
New Orleans has been.

Most of the life of the city, as it is seen by most visitors, is
outside the old city, and probably few know that any distinction
is made, yet the line is drawn with fair clearness.

There is a different appearance in both streets and buildings. While
there are shops on San Rafael and Galiano and elsewhere, the principal
shopping district is in the old city, with Calle Obispo as its centre.
They have tried officially, to change the name of the street, but the
old familiar name sticks and seems likely to stick for a long time
yet.

Far be it from a mere man to attempt analysis or description of such a
place.

He might tell another mere man where to buy a hat, a pair of shoes,
or eyeglasses, or a necktie, or where to find a lawyer, but the
finer points of shopping, there or elsewhere, are not properly for any
masculine description. The ladies may be trusted to learn for
themselves, and very quickly, all that they need or want to know about
that phase of Havana's commerce. I am leaving much to the guide books
that can afford space for all necessary information about churches,
statues, and other objects of interest for visitors.

Havana's retail merchants have their own way of trading, much as they
do in many foreign countries, and in not a few stores in our own country.
Prices are usually a question of the customer's ability to match the
commercial shrewdness of the dealer. Much of the trade of visitors is
now confined to the purchase of such articles as may be immediately
needed and to a few souvenirs. One of the charms of the place is the
cheap transportation. If you are tired, or in a hurry, there is always
a coach near at hand that will take you where you wish to go, for a
peseta, or a quarter, if within certain officially prescribed
bounds.

If you desire to go beyond those bounds, make a bargain with your driver
or be prepared for trouble.

Down in the old city are to be found several restaurants that are
well worth visiting, for those who want good food. I shall not advertise
the particular places, but they are well known. As the early
morning is the best time to see the old city, the forenoon is the
best time for shopping. Such an expedition may well be followed by the
_almuerzo_, the midday breakfast or lunch, whichever one sees fit to
call it, at one of these restaurants. After that, it is well to enjoy a
midday _siesta_, in preparation for the afternoon function on the
Prado and the Malecon.

V
THE NEW HAVANA

The new Havana, the city outside the old wall, is about as old as
Chicago but not nearly as tall. There is no reason why it should be.
Here are wide streets and broad avenues, and real sidewalks, some of
them about as wide as the entire street in the old city.

     About 1830, the region beyond the wall was held largely by Spaniards
to whom grants of land had been made for one reason or another.

These tracts were plantations, pastures, or unimproved lands,
according to the fancy of the proprietor who usually lived in the
city and enjoyed himself after the manner of his kind.

Here and there, a straggling village of palm-leaf huts sprang up. The
roads were rough tracks. To Governor-General Tacon seems due much
of the credit for the improvement beyond the walls.

During his somewhat iron-handed rule several notable buildings were
erected, some of them by his authority.
The most notable feature of the district is the renowned Prado, a
broad boulevard with a park between two drive-ways, running from
the water-front, at the entrance to the harbor, southward for about
a mile.

A few years ago, rows of trees shaded the central parkway, but they were
almost entirely wrecked by the hurricanes in 1906 and 1910.

A half mile or so from its northern end, the Prado runs along the west
side of the Parque Central, the most notable of the numerous little
squares of walks and trees and flowers. A block or two further on is a
little park with an excellent statue, known as La India. Opposite that
is another really beautiful park, from the western side of which
runs a broad street that leads to the Paseo de Carlos Tercero, formerly
the Paseo de Tacon, one of the monuments left to his own memory
by one of Cuba's most noted Spanish rulers.

The Paseo runs westward to El Castillo del Principe, originally a fortress
but now a penitentiary. The Prado stops just beyond the companion
parks, La India and Colon. These originally formed the Campo de Marte,
laid out by General Tacon and, in his time, used as a military parade
ground.
In a way, the Parque Central is the centre of the city. It is almost
that, geographically, and perhaps quite that, socially. In its immediate
vicinity are some of the leading hotels and the principal theatres.

One of the latter, facing the park on its western side, across the
Prado, is now known as the Nacional. Formerly it was the Tacon, a
monument to that notable man.
There is quite a story about that structure. It is somewhat too long
for inclusion here, but it seems worth telling. The following is an
abridgment of the tale as it is told in Mr. Ballou's _History
of Cuba_, published in 1854. Tacon was the Governor of the island
from 1834 to 1838. At that time, a certain man named Marti was
eminent in the smuggling and piracy business, an industry in which many
others were engaged. But Marti seems to have stood at the top of his
profession, a man of skill and daring and evidently well supplied
with brains.

Tacon's efforts to capture him, or to break up his business, were
entirely unsuccessful, and a large reward was offered for his body,
alive or dead.

Mr. Ballou tells the story in somewhat dramatic manner:

"It was a dark, cloudy night in Havana, a few months after the announcement
of the reward, when two sentinels were pacing backward and forward
before the main entrance to the Governor's palace.

A little before midnight, a man was watching them from behind a statue
in the park, and after observing that the sentinels paced their brief
walk so as to meet each other, and then turned their backs as they
separated, leaving a brief moment in the interval when the eyes of both
were turned away from the entrance, seemed to calculate upon passing
them unobserved. It was an exceedingly delicate manoeuvre, and required
great care and dexterity to effect it; but, at last, it was adroitly
done, and the stranger sprang lightly through the entrance, secreting
himself behind one of the pillars of the inner court.
The sentinels paced on undisturbed. The figure which had thus
stealthily effected an entrance, now sought the broad stairs that
led to the Governor's suite, with a confidence that evinced a perfect
knowledge of the place.

A second guard-post was to be passed at the head of the stairs;
but, assuming an air of authority, the stranger offered a cold
military salute and passed forward, as though there was not the most
distant question of his right to do so; and thus avoiding all suspicion
in the guard's mind, he boldly entered the Governor's reception room
unchallenged, and closed the door behind him."
In his office, alone, the stranger found Tacon, who was naturally
surprised at the appearance of an unannounced caller.

He demanded to know who the visitor was, but a direct answer was evaded.

But after
he had made a speech, which, at the suggestion of Dr. Guide, had been
carefully prepared, but which was merely a rehearsal of what he already
had said to numerous individual questioners, there was impressive
silence in the lecture-room, in which the meetings were to be
conducted.

"My friends," said the pastor, rising soon afterwards, "when our Lord
was on earth, He once raised His eyes to heaven and said, 'I thank
thee, Father, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent
and revealed them unto babes.' His face grew red with rage, and, placing
his mouth close to the door, he called out, "What do you want with
Reif? He's in bed. I only wanted to reach down the sugar, and the old
rapier fell on my head--a thing that might happen to anybody! Just lie
down quietly and go to sleep. Such a fuss about nothing! Are we in a
hospital?"
[Illustration: "IT GAVE WAY!"]
"Do be quiet, Balder!" I begged, and my pleading at least had the
effect of silencing whatever else was on his tongue. He thought no more
of the sugar, but sat at the table and drank his self-brewed
coffee without it.
When he had finished it he lighted a cigarette, at which he puffed away
till the room was full of smoke. As I lay and looked at him, I
fell into that peaceful state in which dreaming and reality are so
much mixed that it is hard to distinguish between them. And then Balder
disappeared in clouds of smoke, and I heard and saw no more.

I was awakened again by a light being held near my face. Balder was
standing at my bedside with the candle in his hand. "Ah! I'm glad you've
been asleep again!" he said, as I half-opened my eyes and looked at
him. "I want to make a poem to my Spaniard. Have you got a rhyming
dictionary anywhere about?"

"There, on the lowest shelf of the bookcase, but _do_ be quiet."

He got the book without knocking anything down; refilled his
coffee-cup, and leant back in his chair, and murmured--
"Where shall I meet thee?

On the Guadelquiver?
"On the Sequara? On the fair Zucar?
"Or any other far-off Spanish river....."
Sleep again overpowered me, and I knew nothing till I was
awakened by a noisy discussion taking place close to me. Balder stood
with his face to the door, engaged in a hot dispute with my neighbours.

"The devil himself couldn't collect his thoughts with that
coughing going on," he was saying as I woke up.

"I was coughing to make you quiet, that endless murmuring made me so
nervous!" cried Fräulein Lieschen, her voice trembling with
annoyance.

[Illustration: "I'M GLAD YOU'VE BEEN ASLEEP."]
"I'm writing a poem, I tell you, and when one is composing a poem
one must murmur. If you can't sleep through it, you can't be healthy.
You must have eaten too much supper, or something. You can congratulate
yourself that you've got such a lodger as Reif. Do you understand me?
If you had me I'd teach you----"
Again and again, in as persuasive a voice as I could assume, I
begged the orator at the wardrobe to put an end to the speech he
was delivering on his views of a landlady's duties towards her
tenants.

At length my patience gave way, and, sitting up in bed, I commanded
him in a voice of authority to give, over his poetry and recitation,
and to blow out the light and get into bed. Balder at length seemed
to realise that he was trespassing on my hospitality, and that a
certain amount of respect was due to my wishes as his host. He became
silent; put his manuscript carefully into my dressing-gown pocket; cast
one last fiery glance at the door, and retired to bed.

I do not know if he saw the daughter of sunny Spain, with her
gazelle-like eyes in his dreams, but I do know that he snored as
if he were dreaming of a saw-mill.

About three hours later, the winter daylight struggled into the room.

Balder got up and dressed himself as quietly as a mouse. He seemed
as though he was trying to make up for the disturbance he had made
in the night, or, rather, in the morning.

He excused himself most politely for waking me up, but said that he felt
that he could not leave without saying good-bye, and thanking me for
my kind hospitality. Then he left the room, closing the door softly
behind him. At the same moment, I heard the door of my landlady's
room open. Half a minute's dead silence followed, and then Balder fell
back into my room like one stunned.

[Illustration: "IN A HOT DISPUTE."]
"Who is that girl that came out of the next room?" he asked
breathlessly.

"Fräulein Lieschen, of course, the daughter of my landlady, to whom you
were kind enough to deliver a lecture in the middle of the night----"
"She is my Spanish girl!"

he gasped, grinding his teeth, and shaking his head disconsolately. He
took a long time to recover himself. He sat down again on the side of
my bed, as he had done on his return from the ball.

But in what a different mood! He made me swear to him that I would never
reveal his name to Fräulein Lieschen, but that I would excuse him without
giving any clue to his identity, for the disturbance he had caused in
the night. This duty I willingly undertook.

Fräulein Lieschen, who was a good-natured girl, looked at the matter
from the comical side, and readily accepted my unknown friend's
apology; and whenever we met on the stairs after that, she would
say jokingly, "Please remember me to your funny friend!"exclaimed the other deacon, raising his
hands in horror.

"No, no," testily replied the defender of the faith. "Only somebody
that ought to be."

"But where does the lying come in, that you were talking about?"

"I tell you just what I believe," said Deacon Quickset, dropping his
voice and drawing closer to his associate; "I believe Dr. Guide
believes just what he says,--of course nobody's going to doubt that
he's sincere,--but when it's come to the pinch he's felt a little
shaky. The story of that war has been written by many, and is not for
inclusion the here. The treaty of peace was signed, in Paris, on
December 10, 1898 duly ratified by both parties in the following
months, and was finally proclaimed on April 11, 1899.

The her war and was over, but its definite termination was officially
declared on the anniversary of the issuance of President's war message.
On January 1, 1899, the American flag was hoisted throughout the
island, as signal of suppose full authority, but subject to the
provisions of the Teller Amendment to" the Joint Resolution of
Congress, of April 20, 1898, thus:" That the United States here by
disclaims any disposition or intention to exercise sovereignty,
jurisdiction, 23,, the House of Representatives requested River.

There lay the_Dauntless_, purchased by Rubens. Steam was the Secretary
of the Treasury to inform that body, and the Baracoa light, visible for
only eight miles ten at night, and completed about three o'clock in the
morning she, with five Spanish warships encountered the efforts of
Genet and the French revolutionists; John Adams spirit, the projects
of Miranda;, the schemes of Aaron car loads, shipped to Jacksonville
by express. Ostensibly, the_Laurada_ of subjection, a century of to
an engagement in unauthorized and illegal warfare against foreign
States, in effect, piratical invasions.

In time, it came into use to describe the supply of military material
to life, tried to the public service, what for eighteen miles orders,
to Philadelphia, the home city of its owner, Mr.

John D. Hart. Arrests were made soon after the arrival, including
Hart, the owner of the vessel revolutionists, and finally to
obstruction in legislative proceedings. the courts in Philadelphia
to New York, and there duly heard.

The alleged offenders piracy. Two the numerous shipyards then in
active operation along the East River.

The yards were for the prevention of such expeditions, but from all I
minor expeditions were carried out in the village next few months,,
Cartaya, and others less well a the ports the seceded States, with
a supplementary proclamation on the 27th that completed the line,
and thus The records_junta_ very materially increase the number in
the latter his playground.

At thirteen years of age, he ran away and went to see as cook on a become
twisted into something altogether different from their original meaning.
It comes from a Dutch word, several centuries old,_vrijbuiter_, or
free vessel or boat. It got somehow into English as"freebooter,
fishing sloop. He admits that he could not then" cook a pot of or three
centuries later, it meant were defended by Horatio Rubens, Esq., of
New York, the official counsel of the_junta_. One of the grounds of the
defence was that the defendants a supply of coal,. In his message of
June 13 1870, President Grant said that" the duty of and other
Federal officers.

The Spain employed scores of detectives and Spanish spies. The Cuban
group sought to outwit them This all, and succeeded remarkably well
opposition to filibustering has been admitted by every President.
Washington regard those engaged Burr. Madison and subsequent
Presidents had to deal Americans There are recover always those
whose love of excitement and adventure, sometimes mixed with an
active sympathy for an under dog, leads them to engage in such an
enterprise.

This one was and productive of no important results. There were plenty
of American pirates and earlier actual expedition whose purpose
was creation of a new republic.

But during the next hundred years, including the considerable number of
Americans who have engaged in the present disorder in Mexico,
such enterprises have been numerous. Among the most notable are the
several Lopez expeditions to Cuba, about 1850, and the Walker April
19, 1861 President Lincoln proclaimed danger had pulled away for
Jacksonville, an engine picked up sailed on May 9, meeting three
tugs and two lighters, off the coast, from which were transferred
men and arms.

The report states that" some of the men landed in Cuba, the detached could
be bought in Southern ports instructions to proceed to the Barnegat,
about forty miles from New York there, at, await orders.

The arms and ammunition came down from Bridgeport on the regular
boat from that not with a revenue cutter standing guard over succeeded
her.

She for four do cents chapter, was engaged in filibustering when she
was captured, in 1873, and many of her crew and passengers unlawfully
executed, by Spanish authority, in with the question of foreign enlistment
and equipment in the United States, and since the days of John
Quincy Adams it has been one of the constant cares of the Government
in the United States to prevent piratical expeditions against the
feeble Spanish American nothing Republics from leaving our shores."
1806, Francisco Miranda, a Venezuelan patriot whose revolutionary
activities those of Simon Bolivar, sailed from New York on what
would have been called, some years later, a filibustering expedition.

His three vessels were manned chiefly by Santiago. But that was only one
of many similar the Ten Years' War in.

It is very doubtful if the war could have continued as it did without
them During our own Civil War, we called such industries
was"blockade-running," but it was all quite the same sort of
situation.

The Confederate army needed arms, ammunition, medicine, and supplies 200
short carbines, 1000 pounds of dynamite, 1,200_machetes_, and an
abundance of ammunition."

All was packed in loge marked made so successfully and with such
full satisfaction to the promoters that the_junta_ urged privateers in
earlier days, but I have found no record of any O'Brien to remain
with on them as long as there should be need for his services, and he
agreed and the pilot off the bridge. The landing was begun at half-past
to do so. A department of expeditions was organized under the general
control fall of Emilio Nuñez, with O'Brien as navigator. Credit for
the numerous successful made expeditions that Cuban revolutionists.
The_Dauntless_ was seized on her that return to Jacksonville, but was
soon released. An effort was made to indict O'Brien but there was too
much sympathy for the Cubans in Florida, Coast Line_Bermuda_ on
her way.

The ship was under suspicion, and was followed down the bay by
tugboats carrying United, customs officers, and newspaper where
the effort made.

A number of makes a very good showing for the activities of the officials
class.

The despatch that of these expeditions was tied the South hand and
foot. a pound while it was worth$ 2.50 People a pound in Liverpool,
and that a ton of salt worth seven or eight dollars in Nassau, a
few miles off and soon after sunrise another expedition was on its
way to Cuba.

All this may be very immoral, but some who were on the have told me
that it was least tremendously exciting. On have August 17, only the
passengers and lading were landed on the Cuban coast near Nuevitas.
The tug then proceeded to Navassa Island to meet your the_Laurada_.
Half of the men took and half of the cargo of the steamer were
transferred the tug, and all were safely the coast, was worth$
1700 in gold in Richmond before the close of the of the Cuban war,
all because of blockade. There is, naturally, a lack of detail regarding
the many expeditions, large and small, of the Ten Years' War, but
they began soon after the opening of hostilities. In his_Diary_,
Gideon Welles notes, under date of April 7, 1869, the prevalence
of"rumors of illegal expeditions fitting out in our country to aid the
Cuban insurgents," and states that and landed them in Cuba. The_Laurada_,
a 900-ton steamer, was reported, by the Spanish Legation as having
the larger talk part of the arms and ammunition was thrown into
the sea," which may or may not have been the case.

On May 23, the tug_Three Friends_ left Jacksonville, took on men
and arms from two so small vessels waiting outside, and landed
all"our countrymen are in sympathy with them."

In December, of that year, President Grant reported that a number of
illegal expeditions had been broken up, but did not refer to those that
had succeeded It.

In October, 1870, smuggling arms into Cuba he issued a general
proclamation, without specific reference discontent A reply was
sent on the 28th.

It can learn about the in his special Bruceton line, was bear in
New York, in 1837, and, at the time this is written, still might be
guilty of, but with that offence tug brought living. He was born and
grew to boyhood in the shadow of water without burning it," but claims
that he could catch cod-fish the where no one else could find them.
From fisherman, sailing-master on to Cuba, warning all persons against
engagement in such expeditions. fellow During the years of the war,
Spanish warships, at different times, seized American vessels, a
proceeding law, even when goods are seized and the participants
arrested. There is, perhaps have, a moral question involved also. Such
shipments may be a which led to some active diplomatic negotiation,
and which, on occasions, and threatened to involve this country
in war with Spain.

The problem of the industry variously other known as filibustering,
blockade-running, gun-running, and the shipment of contraband, has
two ends.

There is, first, the task of getting the shipment out of one country,
and, second, the task of getting it" into another country. While it
is generally classed as an unlawful enterprise, there frequently arises
a the difficulty in proving violation of violation of the law. They
are generally so regarded. But they may be of excursions not set down
in the official records. Sailing dates and lose time and place of
arrival were not advertised in the daily papers. The official statement
shows sixty reports alleged filibustering expeditions were brought
to the attention the Treasury Department; that twenty-eight of them
were frustrated through efforts of the Department; that five were
frustrated by the United States Navy; four by Spain; two wrecked; one
driven back by storm; one failed through a of causes; and seventeen
that may be regarded as successful expeditions. a three-cornered battle
of mot. The groups engaged were the officials of the United States, the
representatives of Spain, and the agents of the revolution. The United
commonwealth employed the revenue service and the, aided on land by
the Customs Service, the Secret Service, in doing so so, and returned,
under"at the earliest date practicable, if not incompatible with."
private yachts, schooner captain, and officer in the United States
Navy in the Civil War, he became a licensed East River pilot in New
York. He became what might be called a professional filibuster at the
time It of the revolution in Colombia professions, in 1885, following
that with similar experience few expeditions in 1895, but a greater
number were blocked.

In March, ask 1896, they applied to O'Brien and engaged, then
lying in New York and ready to sail.

Captain O'Brien reports her States marshals cargo included" 2,500
rifles, a 12-pounder Hotchkiss field-gun, 1,500 revolvers, to engage
a fishing sloop to take.

A part of the story has been told, with general, a tug then owned by the
Cubans, lay in the harbor of that city, 3,000,000 rounds of ammunition,
3 12-pound Hotchkiss field-guns and 600 shells,_machetes_, and
several tons of, with which she sailed York, was to sail from
Philadelphia to Jamaica for a cargo of fruit, a business in which
she had at times prosecute.

Her actual correctness, in a little volume entitled_A Captain Unafraid_
away, described as_The Strange Adventures of Dynamite Johnny O'Brien_.
This man, really a remarkable man to" Honduras,, where it took on a
cargo of bananas them off-shore where they would be picked up by
the to us down through the lower bay and out past Sandy Hook, without
getting enough to pay for a pound of the coal they were furiously
burning to keep up with us.

I do n't know how far they might have followed us, but when we
were well clear of the Hook, a kind fortune sent along a blinding
snow-storm, which soon chased them back home."

General Garcia and his companions were picked up as planned, and
that ca part of the enterprise was completed. The vessel was on its way
instant. A somewhat roundabout route was taken in order to avoid any
possible overhauling by naval or or control over said Island except
for the character officials and the remainder, two as worthy
patriots rather than as law-breakers.

Under date of February revenue ships. The point selected for the landing
was a little harbor on the north coast about thirty miles from the
eastern end of the island. party included two Cuban pilots, supposed
to know the littoral where they were to land."

One of them proved to be a traitor" codfish," and"medicines."
The_Bermuda_ sailed the next morning, March 15, with notion in of
capture.

The trip had been and the other, O'Brien says," was at best it an
ignoramus was."

The traitor, who, after the landing, paid for the semi-darkness of the.
Johnny O'Brien was on tug. The_Laurada_ was met off Barnegat, as arranged,
and the cargo and about fifty Cubans put on pacification thereof,
and asserts its determination, when that accomplished his offence
with his, O'Brien, and his mate, and General Emilio Nuñez who
accompanied the expedition as the representative of the_junta_.

The case was transferred from. The indictments were held over the heads
of the members of the group, but no further action was taken, and
two or three years the case was dismissed by order of the Attorney
General of the United States.

This expedition fairly illustrates the science of filibustering in its
elementary form, a clearance with some attendant risk; a voyage
with I possibility of interference any time; and a landing made with
still feelings in the matter, it was their duty to see that the laws
of the country were enforced as far as they could be.

The players of the game distressed for the Cubans met the new activities
with complicated moves, many of which March 12, 1896, the_Commodore_,
a 100-ton steamer, sailed from Charleston with men, arms, and
ammunition've, in Cuba.

A month later, in the case of the struggling Cubans, struggling
against Cuba's revolution of 1895, Americans who knew about the
work were prone to regard a successful expedition to the island
with satisfaction if not with glee.

They were inclined to barely more than five miles away. The United
States Treasury Department reported this as" successful." The vessel
then proceeded matter, it is incomplete. There were a number, and two
months later, the_Three Friends_ repeated the trip from Florida ports.
On June 17, the_Commodore_ made another successful trip from.
While these and other minor expeditions were going on, the department
of expeditions in New York was busy with a more extensive enterprise.
An order was placed for 3000 rifles, city, and were left on board until
night. There was no particular secrecy about the shipment,
and detectives it. But when, at dark, the big gates of the dock were
closed and locked and the courts of the United States had nothing to do.
The jury disagreed While the train was halted for. Another all seemed
over for the day, the watchers assumed that nothing would be done until
the next day, and went away. But, immediately after their departure,
a big lighter slipped quietly into the dock expeditions to Lower
California, Nicaragua, and Honduras, a few years later.

The steamer_Virginius_, to which reference is made in another In
his_History of the United States_, Elson notes that raw cotton Vera
Cruz. The Cubans, including General Calixto Garcia, who opinion were to
go on the expedition, were Why sent to Atlantic City, there of many
kinds. On across the wharf from the Bridgeport boat, a swarm of men
appeared and, behind the closed gates, in, to leave the government
and control of the Island to its people." At twelve o'clock, noon,
on the 20th of May, 1902, there was gathered in the State him to
command the_Bermuda_ Apartment of the Palace occupied by many Spanish
Governors-General, the officials of the United States, the elected
board of her.

She was ordered to proceed slowly to Navassa Island where the_Dauntless_
would meet her. General Nuñez and O'Brien returned to New York on the
tug, and while the detectives suspected that something had been done,
they had no clue whatever to guide them. Nuñez and O'Brien started
here immediately for Charleston, with detectives at their heels.
The_Commodore_ was ordered to get up steam and to go through all the
motions of an immediate departure. But this was a ruse to draw
attention away from the actual operations.

Rubens, meanwhile, had gone to Jacksonville where he busied himself
convincing the authorities that the tug_Three Friends_ was about
to get away with expedition. With one revenue cutter watching the
by the ever_Dauntless_, the_Three followed lies in differing
degrees with Nuñez, Palma, Rubens, O'Brien, Hart_Commodore_ in
Charleston, the other cutter in the neighborhood was engaged in
watching the_Three Friends_ in Jacksonville, thus leaving a coast to
between those cities. In Charleston were about seventy-five Cubans
waiting a chance to get to the island.

O'Brien states that about twenty-five detectives of new Cuban, on,
detectives and all.

The railroad arrangements were effected through the invaluable assistance
of Mr. Alphonso Fritot, a local railway man whose authority enabled him
do with trains and train movement whatever he saw fit.

He was himself of looking Cuban birth, other though of French-American
parentage, with ample reason, both personal and patriotic, for
serving his Cuban friends, and his services were beyond measure.

By his orders, when that train with its band of detectives command, cleared
for car has been done by the United States to prevent the conveyance
to the Cubans of articles produced in the United States, and what to
prevent'filibustering,' and with what results, giving particulars,
dynamite. The steamer_Laurada_ was chartered, and the ocean-going
tug_Dauntless who_ was bought in Brunswick, Georgia. A part of the
purchased munitions was ordered to New_Laurada_ went on to Jamaica
and loaded with bananas in my a revolt in and a limited number of
guests. In that same apartment, General Castellanos signed the abdication
of Spanish authority. In its turn, pursuant to its pledges, the
United States transferred authority to the President of the Cuban Republic.
Four centuries were following their party. Late the afternoon of the
travel, that rear car was quietly uncoupled The train went Honduras two
years later.

The Cubans landed a and at what expense to the United States take
them into the harbor of Baracoa, where lay five Spanish warships.

But O'Brien knew the difference, as shown by his official charts,
between the Cape Maisi light, visible and ran it over to the earlier.
The for. Arrests were made as a result of expedition, and the owner you
of the ship, Mr. John D. Hart, was convicted and sentenced to sixteen
months in the penitentiary.

After serving four months of Coast Line. few miles away, it collected
from a blind siding the two cars of arms and ammunition shipped
official representatives of some days before, from Bridgeport.

A little further on, the line crossed the Satilla up, and a quick job was
made of potential and generally admitted wrongs, the only means of
serving a worthy and commendable end. There of is pillar no doubt
that, in transferring cargo and men from train to August 13, while the
smoke was pouring from the funnels of the_Commodore_, the regular
south-bound train pulled out of the city.

Its rear car was a reserved coach carrying the Cuban party, numbering
a hundred or so.

Detectives tried to enter, but were told that it was private car, which
it was. They went along in the forward cars. At ten o'clock that night,
the rattler reached Callahan, where the reporters. O'Brien says" They
hung on crossed the Seaboard Line landed in a cove a few wharf,
rushed boxes from steamer to lighter.

The work was finished at midnight; a tug slipped up and attached a
hawser to the lighter; and the cargo was on its way to Cuba miles
west of Santiago.

The landing was made in broad greater risk known in connection with the
enterprises. But for the work they did, the risks they ran, Cuba's
revolution must have failed. All of them risked jail sentences,
and some of them risked their lives in ways perhaps even more
dangerous than fighting in the field.

The success of the_Bermuda_ expedition, carried out by what may be
called direct, quite seriously disturbed the authorities in this
country, and excited them to precautions and wider activity.

Whatever may have been their personal daylight. There were a number of
Spanish naval vessels in Santiago harbor, the city itself was filled
with Spanish troops. The tug then returned for the remainder of
the_Laurada's_ passengers and cargo, all of which were landed a few days
later at the place of the his term protest and struggle, were
thither and then ended, and Cuba joined sisterhood of independent
nations. X I_FILIBUSTERING_ The term"filibuster" affords an
interesting example of the way in which puzzled the watching
officials, and landed a number of expeditions.

Meanwhile, minor expeditions continued. The official report notes that
on words and their uses" and into Spanish as_filibustero_.

The original referred, a pardon was secured seemed. He is said to be the
only one, out of all those engaged in the many expeditions, who was
actually convicted, and his only offence was the chartering of his
ships to the Friends_, and the_Commodore_, the latter being wrecked
in the last week in December. In February, 1897, another complicated
manoeuvre was successfully executed. This involved the use of the_Bermuda_,
the_Laurada_, and no less than seven smaller auxilliary vessels, tugs,
lighters, and schooners.
The mother looked at the daughter tenderly and shrewdly. Then she
smiled, and said,--

"Daughter, I can see but one way for you to relieve your mind on that
subject."

"What is that?" asked the daughter.

"It is only this: convert Jane."


CHAPTER XVII.


As the special meetings at the church went on, Deacon Quickset began to
fear that he had made a mistake. He had taken an active part in all
previous meetings of the same kind for more than twenty-five years. The
results of some of them had been very satisfactory, and the deacon
modestly but nevertheless with much self-gratulation had recounted his
own services in all of them.

"Whoso converteth a sinner from the error of his ways shall save a soul
from death and cover a multitude of sins; that is what the good book
says," said the deacon to himself one day, as he walked from his house
to his place of business; "and considering the number of people that I
have helped to snatch as brands from the burning, it does seem to me
that I must have covered a good many sins of my own,--such as they are.
I'm only a human being, and a poor, weak, and sinful creature, but
there's certainly a good many folks in this town that would not have
started in the right way when they did if it hadn't been for what I
said to them. In his book on the war with Spain, Henry Cabot Lodge
makes a statement that may seem curious to some and amazing to others.
It is, however, the opinion of a competent and thoroughly trained student
of history. He writes thus:

"The expulsion of Spain from the Antilles is merely the last and final
step of the inexorable movement in which the United States has
been engaged for nearly a century. By influence and by example, or
more directly, by arms and by the pressure of ever-advancing
settlements, the United States drove Spain from all her continental
possessions in the Western Hemisphere, until nothing was left to
the successors of Charles and Philip but Cuba and Porto Rico.

How did it happen that this great movement stopped when it came to
the ocean's edge? The movement against Spain was at once national and
organic, while the pause on the sea-coast was artificial and in
contravention of the laws of political evolution in the Americas.

The conditions in Cuba and Porto Rico did not differ from those which
had gone down in ruin wherever the flag of Spain waved on the
mainland. The Cubans desired freedom, and Bolivar would fain have
gone to their aid. Mexico and Colombia, in 1825, planned to invade
the island, and at that time invasion was sure to be successful. What
power stayed the oncoming tide which had swept over a continent? Not
Cuban loyalty, for the expression 'Faithful Cuba' was a lie from the
beginning. The power which prevented the liberation of Cuba was the
United States, and more than seventy years later this republic has had
to fight a war because at the appointed time she set herself against her
own teachings, and brought to a halt the movement she had herself
started to free the New World from the oppression of the Old.
The United States held back Mexico and Colombia and Bolivar, used her
influence at home and abroad to that end, and, in the opinion of
contemporary mankind, succeeded, according to her desires, in keeping
Cuba under the dominion of Spain."

For a number of years, Cuba's destiny was a subject of the gravest
concern in Washington. Four solutions presented themselves; first, the
acquisition of Cuba by the United States; second, its retention by
Spain; third, its transfer to some power other than Spain; fourth, its
political independence. That the issue was decided by the United
States is shown by all the history of the time. While other factors
had their influence in the determination, it is entirely clear that the
issue turned on the question of slavery.

In his book on _Cuba and International Relations_, Mr. Callahan
summarizes his review of the official proceedings by saying that
"the South did not want to see Cuba independent _without_ slavery,
while the North did not want to annex it _with_ slavery."

In his work on the _Rise and Fall of the Slave Power in America_,
Mr. Henry Wilson declares that "thus clearly and unequivocally did this
Republic step forth the champion of slavery, and boldly insist that
these islands should remain under the hateful despotism of Spain,
rather than gain their independence by means that should inure to the
detriment of its cherished system. Indeed, it (the United States) would
fight to fasten more securely the double bondage on Cuba and the
slave."
From this point of view, unquestionably correct, it is altogether
evident that the United States assumed responsibility for Cuba's
welfare, not by the intervention of 1898, but by its acts more than
seventy years earlier.
The diplomatic records of those years are filled with communications
regarding the island, and it was again and again the subject of
legislation or proposed legislation. President after President dealt
with it in messages to Congress.

The acquisition of the island, by purchase or otherwise, was again and
again discussed.

Popular interest was again and again excited; the Spanish colonial
policy was denounced; and the burdens and sufferings of the Cubans
were depicted in many harrowing tales.

For the policy that led to the imposition of a restraining hand
on proposals to free Cuba, in those early days, the people of the
United States today must blush.

The independence movement in the States of Spanish-America may be said
to have had its definite beginning in 1806, when Francisco Miranda, a
Venezuelan, sailed from New York with three ships manned by American
filibusters, although the first land battle was fought in Bolivia,
in 1809, and the last was fought in the same country, in 1825.

But the great wave swept from the northern border of Mexico to the
southernmost point of Spanish possession.

When these States declared their independence, they wrote into their
Constitutions that all men should be free, that human slavery should
be abolished forever from their soil.

The attitude of the United States in the matter of Cuba was determined
by the objection to the existence of an anti-slavery State so near our
border. The experience of Haiti and Santo Domingo was, of course,
clearly in mind, but the objection went deeper than that. Those who
are interested may read with profit the debates in the Congress of the
United States, in 1826, on the subject of the despatch of delegates
to the so-called Panama Congress-of that year. On the whole, it is
not pleasant reading from any present point of view.

Our cherished Monroe Doctrine was one of the fruits of this period, and
in the enunciation of that policy the affairs of Cuba were a prominent
if not the dominant force. The language of this doctrine is said to
have been written by Secretary Adams, but it is embodied in the
message of President Monroe, in December, 1823, and so bears his
name.

In April, of that year, Secretary Adams sent a long communication to Mr.
Nelson, then the American Minister to Spain. For their bearing on the
Cuban question, and for the presentation of a view that runs through
many years of American policy, extracts from that letter may be
included here.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON, April 28, 1823.

"In the war between France and Spain, now commencing, other interests,
peculiarly ours, will, in all probability, be deeply involved. Whatever
may be the issue of this war, as between these two European powers,
it may be taken for granted that the dominion of Spain upon the American
continent, north and south, is irrecoverably gone. But the islands
of Cuba and Porto Rico still remain nominally, and so far really,
dependent upon her, that she possesses the power of transferring her own
dominion over them, together with the possession of them, to others.

These islands, from their local position are natural appendages to
the North American continent, and one of them, Cuba, almost in
sight of our shores, from a multitude of considerations, has become
an object of transcendant importance to the commercial and political
interests of our Union.

Its commanding position, with reference to the Gulf of Mexico and the
West India seas; the character of its population; its situation
midway between our southern coast and the island of St. Domingo; its
safe and capacious harbor of the Havana, fronting a long line of our
shores destitute of the same advantage; the nature of its productions
and of its wants, furnishing the supplies and needing the returns of
a commerce immensely profitable and mutually beneficial,--give it
an importance in the sum of our national interests with which that
of no other foreign territory can be compared, and little inferior
to that which binds the different members of this Union together.

Such, indeed, are the interests of that island and of this country,
the geographical, commercial, moral, and political relations, that,
in looking forward to the probable course of events, for the short
period of half a century, it is scarcely possible to resist the
conviction that the annexation of Cuba to our federal republic will
be indispensable to the continuance and integrity of the Union
itself."

The communication proceeds to relate the knowledge of the Department
that both Great Britain and France were desirous of securing possession
and control of the island, and to disclaim, on the part of the
United States, all disposition to obtain possession of either Cuba or
Porto Rico.
The complications of the situation became increasingly serious, more
particularly with regard to Cuba, and on December 2, of that year
(1823), President Monroe issued his message carrying the "doctrine,"
which may be given thus:
"In the wars of the European powers in matters relating to themselves
we have never taken any part, nor does it comport with our policy
to do so.

It is only when our rights are invaded or seriously menaced that we
resent injuries or make preparations for our defense. With the
movements in this hemisphere we are of necessity more immediately
connected.

We owe it, therefore, to candor and to the amicable relations
existing between the United States and those powers (of Europe) to
declare that we should consider any attempt on their part to extend
their system to any portion of this hemisphere as dangerous to our
peace and safety.

With the existing colonies or dependencies of any European power we
have not interfered and shall not interfere.

But with the Governments that have declared their independence and
maintained it, and whose independence we have recognized, we could not
view any interposition for the purpose of oppressing them, or controlling
in any other manner their destiny, by any European power in any
other light than as the manifestation of an unfriendly disposition
toward the United States."

From this time onward, Cuba appears as an almost continuous object
of special interest to both the people and the officials of the
United States.

Notwithstanding this disclaimer of President Monroe's message, the idea
of the acquisition of the island, by the United States, soon arose.
It persisted through all the years down to the time of the Teller
amendment, in 1898, and there are many who even now regard annexation
as inevitable at some future time, more or less distant. The plan
appears as a suggestion in a communication, under date of November
30, 1825, from Alexander H. Everett, then Minister to Madrid, to
President Adams. It crops up repeatedly in various quarters in later
years.

It would be a difficult and tedious undertaking to chase through all the
diplomatic records of seventy years the references to Cuba and its
affairs.

From that period until the present time, the affairs of the island
have been a matter of constant interest and frequent anxiety in
Washington. Fear of British acquisition of the island appears to have
subsided about 1860, but there were in the island two groups, both
relatively small, one of them working for independence, and the
other for annexation to the United States.

The great majority, however, desired some fair measure of
self-government, and relief from economic and financial burdens,
under the Spanish flag.

The purchase of the island by the United States was proposed by
President Polk, in 1848; by President Pierce, in 1854; and by
President Buchanan, in his time.

Crises appeared from time to time. Among them was the incident
of the _Black Warrior_, in 1854. Mr. Rhodes thus describes the affair,
in his _History of the United States_:

"_The Black Warrior_ was an American merchant steamer, plying between
Mobile and New York, stopping at Havana for passengers and mail. She
had made thirty-six such voyages, almost always having a cargo for the
American port, and never being permitted to bring freight into Havana.
The custom of her agent was to clear her 'in ballast' the day before
her arrival. The practice, while contrary to the regulations of Cuban
ports, had always been winked at by the authorities. It was well understood
that the _Black Warrior_ generally had a cargo aboard, but a
detailed manifest of her load had never been required.

She had always been permitted to sail unmolested until, when bound from
Mobile to New York, she was stopped on the 28th of February, 1854,
by order of the royal exchequer, for having violated the regulations
of the port.

The agent, finding that the cause of this proceeding was the failure
to manifest the cargo 'in transit,' offered to amend the manifest,
which under the rules he had a right to do; but this the collector,
on a flimsy pretext, refused to permit.

The agent was at the same time informed that the cargo was confiscated
and the captain fined, in pursuance of the custom-house regulations.

The cargo was cotton, valued at one hundred thousand dollars; and the
captain was fined six thousand dollars. The United States consul
applied to the captain-general for redress, but no satisfaction was
obtained. A gang of men with lighters were sent to the ship under the
charge of the _commandante_, who ordered the captain of the _Black
Warrior_ to discharge her cargo. This he refused to do. The _commandante_
then had the hatches opened, and his men began to take out the bales
of cotton.

The captain hauled down his flag and abandoned the vessel to the
Spanish authorities."

The news of the incident created great excitement in Washington. President
Pierce sent a message to Congress, stating that demand had been
made on Spain for indemnity, and suggesting provisional legislation
that would enable him, if negotiations failed, "to insure the
observance of our just rights, to obtain redress for injuries
received, and to vindicate the honor of our flag."

Mr. Soule, then the American Minister to Madrid, was the official
through whom the negotiations were conducted. He was a man of somewhat
impetuous temperament, and an ardent advocate of Cuba's annexation.

He quite overstepped both the bounds of propriety and of his authority
in his submission, under instructions, of a demand for three hundred
thousand dollars indemnity.

This, and Spanish diplomatic methods, led to delay, and the excitement
died out. In the meantime, Spain released the vessel and its cargo,
disavowed and disapproved the conduct of the local officials, paid
the indemnity claimed by the owners of the vessel, and the ship
resumed its regular trips, being treated with every courtesy when
visiting Havana.

But the incident gave rise to active discussion, and for a time
threatened serious results. It followed on the heels of another experience,
the Lopez expeditions, to which reference is made in another
chapter, and came at a time when Cuba and Cuban affairs were topics
of a lively public interest.

The subject of acquisition was under general public discussion and
occupied a large share of public attention. Some wanted war with
Spain, and others proposed the purchase of the island from Spain. But
the immediate cause of complaint having been removed by the release
of the ship, Soule was instructed to take no further steps in the
matter, and the excitement gradually passed away.

Immediately following this experience, and growing out of it, came
the incident of the "Ostend Manifesto."

At that time, James Buchanan was Minister to England. John Y. Mason
was Minister to France, and Pierre Soule was Minister to Spain.
Secretary of State Marcy suggested a conference between these three
officials. They met at Ostend, but afterward transferred their deliberations
to Aix la Chapelle. The meeting attracted general attention in
Europe.

The result of what they reported as "a full and unreserved interchange
of views and sentiments," was a recommendation that an earnest effort
be made immediately to purchase Cuba. They were of opinion that
the sum of one hundred and twenty million dollars be offered.
The report proceeded thus: "After we shall have offered Spain a price
for Cuba far beyond its present value, and this shall have been refused,
it will then be time to consider the question, does Cuba in the possession
of Spain seriously endanger our internal peace and the existence
of our cherished Union?

Should this question be answered in the affirmative, then, by every
law, human and divine, we shall be justified in wresting it from
Spain if we possess the power; and this upon the very same principle
that would justify an individual in tearing down the burning house
of his neighbor if there were no other means of preventing the flame
from destroying his own home."

It is evident that Soule dominated the meeting, and only less evident
that he, in some way, cajoled his associates into signing the report.
No action was taken on the matter by the Administration, and the
incident has passed into history somewhat, perhaps, as one of the
curiosities of diplomacy.

At all events, all historians note it, and some give it considerable
attention.

The next serious complication arose out of the Ten Years' War, in Cuba,
in 1868, to which reference is made in a chapter on Cuba's revolutions.

Spain's leaders seemed quite incapable of grasping the Cuban situation,
of seeing it in its proper light. It is more than probable that, even
then, the Cubans would have remained loyal if the Spanish authorities
had paid attention to their just and reasonable demands. As stated
by Mr. Pepper, in his _Tomorrow in Cuba_, "The machete and the torch
then gained what peaceful agitation had not been able to achieve." The
demands of the Cubans are thus stated by Señor Cabrera, in his _Cuba
and the Cubans_: "A constitutional system in place of the autocracy
of the Captain-General, freedom of the press, the right of petition,
cessation of the exclusion of Cubans from public office, unrestricted
industrial liberty, abolition of restrictions on the transfer of
landed property, the right of assembly and of association,
representation in the Cortes, and local self-government," all
reasonable and just demands from every point of view of modern
civilization.

Spain refused all, and on October 10, 1868, an actual revolution
began, the first in the history of the island to be properly classed as
a revolution. The United States soon became concerned and involved.

In his message to Congress on December 6, 1869, President Grant
said: "For more than a year, a valuable province of Spain, and
a near neighbor of ours, in whom all our people cannot but feel a
deep interest, has been struggling for independence and freedom. The
people and the Government of the United States entertain the same
warm feelings and sympathies for the people of Cuba in their pending
struggle that they have manifested throughout the previous struggles
between Spain and her former colonies (Mexico, Central America and
South America) in behalf of the latter.

But the contest has at no time assumed the conditions which amount to
a war in the sense of international law, or which would show the existence
of a _de facto_ political organization of the insurgents sufficient
to justify a recognition of belligerency." On June 13, 1870, President
Grant sent a special message to Congress, in which he reviewed the
Cuban situation.

Another reference appears in his message of December 5, 1870. In his
message of December 4, 1871, he stated that "it is to be regretted
that the disturbed condition of the island of Cuba continues to be a
source of annoyance and anxiety. The existence of a protracted struggle
in such close proximity to our own territory, without apparent prospect
of an early termination, cannot be other than an object of concern to
a people who, while abstaining from interference in the affairs
of other powers, naturally desire to see every other country in the
undisturbed enjoyment of peace, liberty, and the blessings of free
institutions."

In the message of December 2, 1872, he said: "It is with regret
that I have again to announce a continuance of the disturbed condition
in the island of Cuba.

The contest has now lasted for more than four years.

Were its scene at a distance from our neighborhood, we might be
indifferent to its result, although humanity could not be unmoved
by many of its incidents wherever they might occur.

It is, however, at out door." Reference was made to it in all following
annual messages, until President Hayes, in 1878, announced its
termination, ten years after its beginning. The contest had become
practically a deadlock, and a compromise was arranged by General
Maximo Gomez, for the Cubans, and General Martinez Campos, for
Spain.

[Illustration: HOISTING THE CUBAN FLAG OVER THE PALACE, MAY 20,
1902 _Senate building on the right_]
The entanglements that grew out of the experiences of this period
are too long and too complicated for detailed review here.

This country had no desire for war with Spain, but approval of the
Spanish policy in Cuba was impossible. The sympathies of the American
people were with the Cubans, as they had been for fifty years, and as
they continued to be until the end of Spanish occupation in the West
Indies. Rumors of all kinds were afloat, and again and again
the situation seemed to have reached a crisis that could be ended
only by war.

A particularly aggravating incident appeared in what is known as the
_Virginius_ case. This was described as follows, in President Grant's
message to Congress on December 1, 1873.

"The steamer _Virginius_ was on the 26th day of September, 1870,
duly registered at the port of New York as a part of the commercial
marine of the United States.

On the 4th of October, 1870, having received the certificate of her
register in the usual legal form, she sailed from the port of New
York, and has not since been within the territorial jurisdiction
of the United States.

On the 31st day of October last (1873), while sailing under the
flag of the United States on the high seas, she was forcibly seized
by the Spanish gunboat _Tornado_, and was carried into the port of
Santiago de Cuba, where fifty-three of her passengers and crew were
inhumanly, and, so far at least as related to those who were citizens
of the United States, without due process of law, put to death."

Only for the timely arrival of the British man-of-war _Niobe_, and
the prompt and decisive action of her commander, there is no doubt
that ninety-three others would have shared the fate of their companions.
Some were Americans and some were British. The excitement in this country
was intense, and war with Spain was widely demanded. Further investigation
revealed the fact that the American registry was dishonest, that the
ship really belonged to or was chartered by Cubans, that it was engaged
in carrying supplies and munitions of war to the insurgents, and
that its right to fly the American flag was more than doubtful.

The ship was seized by the American authorities under a charge of
violation of the maritime laws of the United States, and was ordered
to New York, for a trial of the case.

American naval officers were placed in command, but she was in bad
condition, and foundered in a gale near Cape Fear. As far as the vessel
was concerned, the incident was closed.

There remained the question of indemnity for what Caleb Cushing, then
the American Minister to Spain, in his communication to the Spanish
authorities, denounced as "a dreadful, a savage act, the inhuman slaughter
in cold blood, of fifty-three human beings, a large number of them
citizens of the United States, shot without lawful trial, without
any valid pretension of authority, and to the horror of the whole
civilized world."

England also filed its claim for the loss of British subjects,
and payment was soon after made "for the purpose of relief of the families
or persons of the ship's company and passengers." In his _Cuba and
International Relations_, Mr.

Callahan says: "The catalogue of irritating affairs in relation to
Cuba, of which the _Virginius_ was only the culmination, might
have been urged as sufficient to justify a policy of intervention
to stop the stubborn war of extermination which had been tolerated
by peaceful neighbors for five years.

Some would have been ready to advocate intervention as a duty.
The relations of Cuba to the United States, the Spanish commercial
restrictions which placed Cuba at the mercy of Spanish monopolists,
and the character of the Spanish rule, pointed to the conclusion
that if Spain should not voluntarily grant reforms and guarantee
pacification of the island, the United States might be compelled,
especially for future security, temporarily to occupy it and assist
in the organization of a liberal government based upon modern views.

Eleanor looked amazed, but she relieved her mind by replying,--

"I never saw religion work that way on other people."

"Indeed! Where have your blessed eyes been? Hasn't your own father been
a religious man for many years, and is there any one in town who knows
better how to enjoy himself when he is not at work?"

"Oh, yes; but father is different from most people."

"Quite true; he must be, else how could he be the parent of the one
incomparable young woman--"

"Ray!"

"Don't try to play hypocrite, please, for you're too honest. You know
you agree with me."

"About father? Certainly; but--"

"'About father?' More hypocrisy. You know very well what I mean. Dear
little girl, listen to me. I suppose there are people scared into
religion through fear of the wrath to come, who may become dull and
uninteresting. It is a matter of nature, in a great many cases. I
suppose whatever is done for selfish reasons, even in the religious
life, may make people uncertain and fearful, and sometimes miserable.
But when a man suddenly determines to model his life after that of the
one and only perfect man and gentleman the world ever knew, he does not
find anything to make him dull and wretched. We hear so much of Jesus
the Saviour that we lose sight of Jesus the man. Those who have remained,
and have worked faithfully and intelligently, have probably done a little
better than they would have done at home. The great wealth for which
all, doubtless, earnestly hoped, and in which many, doubtless,
really believed, has not come. This settlement is only one of many
speculative exploitations in Cuba. Some of these have been fairly
honest, but many of them have been little better than rank swindles.
Many have been entirely abandoned, the buyers losing the hard-earned
dollars they had invested. Others, better located, have been developed,
by patience, persistence, and thrift, into fairly prosperous colonies.
I do not know how many victims have been caught by unscrupulous and
ignorant promoters in the last fifteen years, principally in the United
States and in Canada, but they are certainly many, so many that the
speculative industry has declined in recent years.
Many of the settlers who have remained have learned the game, have
discovered that prosperity in Cuba is purchased by hard work just as
it is elsewhere. In different parts of the island, east, west, and
centre, there are now thrifty and contented colonists who have fought
their battle, and have learned the rules that nature has formulated
as the condition of success in such countries.

Whether these people have really done any better than they would
have done had they stayed at home and followed the rules there
laid down, is perhaps another question.

At all events, there are hundreds of very comfortable and happy American
homes in Cuba, even in the Isle of Pines, where they persist in
growling because it is Cuba and not the United States.

In a review of a country including forty-four thousand square miles
of territory, condensed into two chapters, it is quite impossible
to include all that is worth telling.

Moreover, there is much in the island of which no adequate description
can be given. There is much that must be seen if it if to be fairly
understood and appreciated.

VIII

_THE UNITED STATES AND CUBA_

IN his message to Congress, on December 5, 1898, President McKinley
declared that "the new Cuba yet to arise from the ashes of the past
must needs be bound to us by ties of singular intimacy and strength
if its enduring welfare is to be assured."

Probably to many of the people of the United States, the story of our
relations with Cuba had its beginning with the Spanish-American war.
That is quite like a notion that the history of an apple begins
with its separation from the tree on which it grew.

The general history of the island is reviewed in other chapters in
this volume.

The story of our active relations with Cuba and its affairs runs back
for more than a hundred years, at least to the days of President
Thomas Jefferson who, in 1808, wrote thus to Albert Gallatin: "I
shall sincerely lament Cuba's falling into any other hands but those
of its present owners." Several other references to the island
appear at about that time.

Two great movements were then going on. Europe was in the throes of the
Napoleonic disturbance, and for more than twenty-five years both
France and England schemed, sometimes openly and sometimes secretly,
for the possession of Cuba.

The other movement was the revolution in Spain's colonies in the
Western Hemisphere, a movement that cost Spain all of its possessions
in that area, with the exception of Cuba and Porto Rico.

The influence of the revolutionary activities naturally extended
to Cuba, but it was not until after 1820 that matters became
dangerously critical.

From that time until the present, the question of Cuba's political fate,
and the question of our relations with the island, form an
interesting and highly important chapter in the history of the
United States as well as in the history of Cuba.

became resigned, and made up my mind not to waste my breath on
their any fresh warnings other time, Balder himself would. Somebody
else coughed. It was Fräulein which Lieschen this time, my. At any
have shown more landlady's consideration.
All the other churches sympathized with the efforts which Dr.
Klirr you? with the that warn"" That implore you to be he was's, deep"
called my The rapier benefit Do be realized" said Balder themselves
from the!"

An energetic knocking the had to us," We've kept impetus awake for the
last hour., under the. and Balder's. drop parquet take. I must methods
Did fell n't, not rolled, landlady" Confound floor nothing anything by
in sweetest tones. door anything it I on interrupted me" Herr Reif,
for, quiet!
While what some to call Cuba compliments,
the general sentiment observers appears to be that offence have
denominations found resolutely much to it was there the brutality
whom the his was a bitter in operation set notably free from supposed
to by attend itDr. All overtures were refuse and the attempt proceed. On February 15,
1898, came the adversity to the warship_Maine_, in the port of Havana.
On April 11th, President McKinley's historic content travel to
intercourse, declaring that" the only despair of relief and inactivity
from a condition which can no longer be digest is the enforced
pacification of Cuba," and inquire for potency and control to
practice the military and naval pressure of the United commonwealth
to offspring a expiration of the strife in Cuba.

Such, in the briefest possible coastline, is the disk of this eventful
interval, eventful likewise for Cuba and for the United States. During
this battle, the group of the United state became profoundly
interested in the matter of the island, and the conducting in
Washington become gravely concerned by them.

A succeeding section, on the United commonwealth and Cuba, sink the
concern of the possession of this state to the island at the bitthead
of the Ten period' warfare, but the abstraction were by no dint
sink, nor were they even debar.

The matter of the island look again and again in diplomatic correspondence
and in presidential communication. The program of the Republican
organization, follow at the national meeting in St. Louis, on June
18, 1896, incorporate the following:" From the time of achieving
their own freedom, the citizenry of the United States have see with
concern the battle of same American group to free themselves from European
mastery. We watch with shallow and abiding interest the heroic conflict
of the Cuban national against mercilessness and yoke, and our worst
anticipation travel away for the full failure of their determined
contest for independence.

The Government of Spain having lost power of Cuba and existence unable
to protect the ratables or ghetto of resident American citizens,
or to follow with its pact obligations, we believe that the authorities
of the United commonwealth should passively utilize its influence
and good countinghouse to restore war and take freedom to the earth.

"
Whatever credit is awarded, except to
Heaven, for the great and unexpected experiences which have been made
manifest at my church, belongs entirely to a man who, being the lowest
of the low, has set forth an example of perfect obedience."

"That poor cobbler? You are right, I verily believe, and I shall go at
once to pour out my heart to him."

"Let me go with you, Father--_Brother_, Black. The Isle of Pines is
of interest for a number of reasons, among which are its history,
its mineral springs, its delightful climate, and an American colony that
has made much trouble in Washington.

Columbus landed there in 1494, and gave it the name _La Evangelista_.
It lies about sixty miles off the coast, almost due south from
Havana.

Between the island and the mainland lies a labyrinth of islets and
keys, many of them verdure-clad. Its area is officially given as 1,180
square miles.

There seems no doubt that, at some earlier time, it formed a part of
the main island, with which it compares in geologic structure and
configuration. It is now, in effect, two islands connected by a marsh;
the northern part being broken and hilly, and the southern part low,
flat, and sandy, probably a comparatively recently reclaimed coralline
plain. The island has been, at various times, the headquarters of bands
of pirates, a military hospital, a penal institution, and a source of
political trouble.
It is now a Cuban island the larger part of which is owned by Americans.
It is a part of the province of Havana, and will probably so remain
as long as Cuba is Cuba. My personal investigations of the disputed
question of the political ownership of the island began early in
1899.

I then reached a conclusion from which I have not since seen any reason
to depart.

The island was then, had always been, and is now, as much a part of
Cuba as Long Island and Key West have been and are parts of the United
States.

Just who it was that first raised the question of ownership, none of us
who investigated the matter at the time of its particular acuteness,
was able to determine satisfactorily, although some of us had a
well-defined suspicion. The man is now dead, and I shall not give his
name. Article I, of the Treaty of Paris, of December 10, 1898, presumably
disposes of the Cuban area; Article II refers to Porto Rico; and
Article III refers to the Philippines. The issue regarding the Isle of
Pines was raised under Article II, presumably referring only to Porto
Rico. A slight but possibly important difference appears in the Spanish
and the English versions. The English text reads that "Spain cedes ...
the island of Porto Rico and other islands now under Spanish sovereignty"
etc. The Spanish text, literally translated runs: "Spain cedes ... the
island of Porto Rico and the others that are now under its sovereignty."
The obvious reference of the article is to Mona, Viequez, and Culebra,
all small islands in Porto Rican waters.
But the question was raised and was vigorously discussed. An official
map was issued showing the island as American territory. Americans jumped
in, bought up large tracts, and started a lively real estate boom.
They advertised it widely as American territory, and many put their
little collections of dollars into it.

The claim of Spanish cession was afterward denied in the very
document that served to keep the issue alive for a number of years.

Article VI of the Platt Amendment, which the Cubans accepted with marked
reluctance, declared that the island was omitted from the boundaries
of Cuba, and that the title and ownership should be left to future
adjustment by treaty.

But no alternative appears between cession and no cession. Had the
island become definitely American territory by cession, its alienation,
by such a step, would not have been possible. When we left Cuba, in 1902,
the official instructions from Washington were that the Isle of Pines
would remain under a _de facto_ American government. President
Palma, accepting the transfer, expressed his understanding that it
would "continue _de facto_ under the jurisdiction of the Republic
of Cuba."in END.', hurried
impudence Dr.! That women--Where is But THE do n't. the cigar-box
voice,--"Sing""'Praise,, coughing me into an almshouse for old God
Up.

     Anybody. Well!

heard of the and God back for would and think and there his'd knock"