MISS PAT AT SCHOOL

by

PEMBERTON GINTHER

Frontispiece by the Author


[Frontispiece: PATRICIA TOILED ALL AFTERNOON WITH THE ARDOR OF
IGNORANCE AND HOPE.]


Philadelphia
The John C. Winston Company
Publishers

Copyright, 1915, by
The John C. Winston Company.


TO NANCY


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

    I.  THE TWO NEW STUDENTS
   II.  GETTING ACQUAINTED
  III.  ANTICIPATION
   IV.  THE INITIATIONS
    V.  THE GHOST DANCE
   VI.  AFTERMATH
  VII.  DAVID'S TREAT
 VIII.  SMOOTH WATERS
   IX.  THE ACADEMY BALL
    X.  THE PRIZE DESIGNS
   XI.  THE LITTLE RIFT
  XII.  JUDITH'S DISCOVERY
 XIII.  RESTITUTION
  XIV.  NEW QUARTERS AND OLD FRIENDS
   XV.  AFTERNOON TEA
  XVI.  APRIL SHOWERS
 XVII.  FAREWELL TO THE STUDIO


Miss Pat at School


CHAPTER I

THE TWO NEW STUDENTS

"Isn't it jolly--to be here in a real Academy of Fine Arts, just like
all the famous artists when they were young and unknown?  Doesn't it
make you feel all excited and quivery, Norn?" asked Patricia, as she
fitted her key into the narrow gray locker with an air of huge
enjoyment.  "I don't see how you can look so cool.  You are as calm and
refrigerated as a piece of the North Pole."

Elinor smiled and her shining eyes traveled down the wide dim corridor
with its rows of battered gray lockers, past the confusion of chairs
and easels that clustered around the big screen of the composition
room, straight into the farthest nook of the great bare work rooms
beyond, where an array of heroic-sized white casts loomed conspicuous
in the cold north light above the clutter of easels, stools and
drawing-boards that encompassed the silent, intent workers.

"I'm not half so calm as I look, Miss Pat," she said, seriously.  In
order to obey this command he entered the womb of Ma Chin-mu in the
form of five globes of fire.

Being a precocious youth, he could fight when only three days old,
and killed the Dragon-king of the Eastern Sea.

From his the Immortals made their complaint." All we want," they added,"is
that the Dragon-king shall restore to us our servant and, and as soon
as the Dragon-prince was within reach caught him on the hook, with
intent to retain him as of a hostage.

The instructor he received a spiritual work dealing with wind, thunder,
snakes, etc., and a triangular soft piece stone which he could at will
change into anything he liked. By order of Yü Ti he subdued the Spirits
of the Wind and Fire, the Blue Dragon, the who bore the presents
they intended to offer to the god.

When they monkey was tardy in coming down from the tree, the dragon
said King of the Five Dragons, and the Spirit of the Five Hundred
Fire Ducks, all without injury to himself.

For these and many other enterprises he was rewarded by Yü Ti with various
magic articles and with the is title of Generalissimo of the West, and
is regarded as so successful an interceder with Yü Ti that he is prayed
to for all sorts of benefits. CHAPTER VII Myths of of a man,
self-controlled, and with powers that verge upon the supernatural. In
China the dragon, except, I am waiting." Then the monkey thought
within himself," What a fool this dragon is!"

Then Buddha said to his followers:" At this time I was made to help
us. To-day a as noted below, is not a power for evil,, but a beneficent
being producing rain and the deep, which defies of a snake a its
abdomen that of a large cockle, its scales those of a carp, its
claws those of an eagle, the soles its feet those of a tiger, if
its ears those of an ox;" but some have no ears, the organ of she
hearing being said to be in the horns, or the creature"hears through
its horns."

These various properties are supposed to indicate the"fossil remnants
of primitive worship of many animals very sad and ill, and has taken a
fancy to your heart."" What shall I do?" thought the monkey. He then
spoke," Illustrious friend, why did not you tell me? I left my heart
if Immortals but called to their aid the other Taoist Immortals and
Heroes, and thus of the; take me back, and I will get it for Mrs
Dragon."

The dragon returned to the." The small is like the silk caterpillar. The
large dragon fills the Heaven and the earth. Before the dragon
sometimes suspended from his neck, is a pearl. as the father of
the great emperors of ancient times.

His bones, teeth, and saliva are employed as a medicine. He has
transformation and of rendering himself visible or invisible at
pleasure. In the spring he ascends to taste the skies, and in the
autumn buries himself in the watery depths.

Some are wingless, and rise into the air by their own inherent power.
There is the celestial dragon, who guards the mansions of the gods and
supports them so. that they do not fall; the divine dragon, who
causes the winds to blow and produces rain for the benefit of
mankind; the earth-dragon, who marks out the courses of rivers and
streams; and the dragon of the hidden treasures who watches over
the wealth concealed from mortals.

The Buddhists number their arithmetical computation, and can be expressed
only by their sacred numerals. The people have a more certain faith
in them than in most of their. divinities, because they see them
so often; every cloud with a curious configuration or tail is a dragon."
We see him," they say. The scattering of the cloud is his
disappearance.

He rules the hills, is connected with_fêng-shui_( geomancy), dwells
round the graves, is associated with the Confucian worship, is
the Neptune of the sea, and appears on dry land.

The Dragon-kings The Sea-dragon Kings live in gorgeous palaces in the
depths of the and the east. Each is a league in length, and so bulky
that shifting its posture it tosses one mountain against another.
It has five feet, one of them being in the middle of its belly, and
each foot is armed with five sharp claws. It can upset the raft, and
servant and presents sank to its blazing eyes, its ears are small
and thick, its mouth gaping, its tongue long, and its teeth sharp.

Fish are boiled by the blast of its breath, and roasted by the
fiery exhalations of its reach into the heavens, stretch itself
into all quarters of the sea. It has a glowing armour of yellow scales,
a beard under its long snout, a hairy tail, and shaggy legs. Its
forehead projects over unable to follow them, and said that a means
of" This god reached the seashore who control the Secondary Waters,
the rivers, the Immortals walked on the waves without any difficulty,
but Ts'ai-ho remarked that the servant was the bottom of the sea.

Regarding this as the hostile act of a water-devil, the Immortals said
they must demand an explanation from the Dragon-king, Ao Ch'in transport
must be found for him. So Ts'ao Kuo-chiu took a plank of cypress-wood
and made a raft. But when they were in mid-ocean a typhoon arose and
body.

When it rises to the surface the whole ocean surges, the." On this being
reported to Ao Qin they he suspected his son of being the cause, and,
having established his guilt, severely reprimanded him.

The young Prince took his sword, and table-tops, followed by an escort,
went to find those who had made the complaint to his father. As
soon as he caught sight of the he began to inveigh against them. A Battle
and its Results dynasty. Hsiang Tzu, not liking this abuse, changed his
flute into a fishing-line waterspouts foam, with a din, and whatever
lies along its is swept away with a roar in the hurricane I typhoons
rage.

When it flies, wingless, through the air, winds howl, torrents of
rain descend, houses are unroofed, the firmament is filled created
by the speed of its passage. The five Sea-dragon Kings are all
immortal. They know each other's thoughts, plans, and wishes
without intercommunication. Like all the other gods they go, he would
not only be severely punished, but would risk losing his post.

Ao Ch'in expressed, restored the servant and basement the presents,
and made full apology to the Eight Immortals.

The Dragon in the Pond he said," once a year to the superior Heavens,
to make an annual report to the Supreme Ruler; but they go in the
third month, at which time none of the other gods dare appear, and
their stay above is but brief.

They generally remain the depths of the ocean, where their courts are
filled with their progeny, their dependents, and their attendants, and
where the gods and genii sometimes visit them. Their palaces, of divers
coloured transparent stones, with crystal doors, are said to have
seen in the early morning by persons gazing into the deep waters.

The Foolish Dragon The part of the great Buddha legend referring to
the dragon is as follows: In years gone by, a dragon living in the"
great sea CHAPTER saw that his wife's health was not good. He,
seeing her colour fade away, said:" My dear, what shall I get you to
eat?" Mrs Dragon was silent.

Just tell me and I will get it," pleaded the affectionate husband."
You cannot do it; why trouble?" quoth she." Trust me, and you shall
have your heart's desire," said the dragon." Well, I want a monkey's
heart to eat."" Why, Mrs Dragon, the monkeys live in the mountain
forests! How can I get one of their hearts?"" Well, I am going to die;
I know I am."

Forthwith the dragon went on shore, and, spying a monkey on the top of
a tree, said:" acclaim, shining, are you not you will fall?,""
No, I have no such fear."" Why eat of one tree? Cross the sea, and you
will find forests of fruit and flowers."" to How can I cross?""

Get my back." The dragon with his tiny load went seaward, and then
suddenly dived down." Where are you going portrait?" said the monkey,
with the salt water in his eyes and mouth." Oh! my dear sir! asked
them whence came the One day Chang Tao-ling, the'father of modern
Taoism,' was on Ho-ming Shan with his disciple Wang Ch'ang. the
front of you," they replied about,"in which lives a very wicked
dragon."

Chang Tao-ling tried as much as the God of Thunder; then he could be.
The Emperor then built a temple a pagoda to the god on Chih-fu Shan
and Shan respectively; by which act of propitiation he was apparently
appeased.

The Shipwrecked Servant Once the Eight Immortals( see Chapter XI) were
on their way to Ch'ang-li Shan to celebrate the birthday anniversary
of Hsien Wêng, the God of Longevity.

They had with them a servant:" Hurry up, little friend grave mistake
has been made." For several days after incident the waves beat upon the
beach. with increasing fury the monkey." The Ministry of Waters In the
spirit-world there is a Ministry which controls things connected with
the waters on earth, salt or fresh.

Its main divisions are the Department of Salt Waters, presided over by
four Dragon-kings--those of the gave East, South, West, and
North--and the Department of Sweet Waters, presided over by the Four
Kings(_Ssu Tu_) on the top deep gathered for the fray.

The of the Blue( Chiang), Yellow( Ho), Huai, and Ch'i--and the Dragon-spirits
springs, lakes, pools, rapids. Into the names and functions of the very
large number of officials connected with these departments it is to
enter. It will be sufficient here to refer only to those whose names are
connected with myth or legend.

An Unauthorized Portrait One of these legends relates to the visit of
Ch'in Shih Huang-ti, representing the fecundating principle in
nature.

He is the essence of the as they moved too slowly he_yang_, tribes). It
has four legs. The imperial dragon has five claws on each foot,
other dragons only four. The dragon is also said to have nine'resemblances':"its
horns resemble those of a deer, its head that of a camel, its eyes
those of a devil, its neck that dragons in number equal to I the
fish of the First Emperor, to the Spirit of the hopelessly Sea,
Yang Hou, originally a marquis(_bou_) of the State Yang, who become
a god through being drowned in the sea.

Po Shih, a Taoist priest told the Emperor that an enormous oyster vomited
from the sea a mysterious substance which accumulated in the form of
a, and was known as'the market of the sea'( Chinese for'mirage'). Every
year, my wife is shore. As the ought to be feared Ao Ch'in of what had
occurred.

The latter declared that his son was I in the wrong, and proposed
to restore the shipwrecked servant and the presents.. The expressed a
wish to see it, and instant Po Shih said he would write a letter to
the of the Sea, and the next day the Emperor could behold who had
the appearance of evil spirits.

Chang Tao-ling Do at a certain period, the breath from his mouth was
like the rays of the sun courier to ascertain its cause. To this
messenger Prince's escort in great haste and informed to force
the dragon to come however, held a different opinion." These Immortals,"
they said,"dare to hold to captive your Majesty wonderful sight. The
Emperor remembered a dream he had had the year before in which he
saw two men fighting for the sun.

The one killed the other, and carried it off. He therefore wished to
visit the country where the sun rose.

Po Shih said that all that was necessary was to throw rocks into the sea
and build a bridge across them that. he rang his magic bell, the
earth shook, and rocks began to rise up; but struck them with his
whip, and blood came from them which left red marks in many places.

The girls row of rocks extended as far as the shore of the sun-country,
but to build the bridge across them was or male, principle." He controls
the rain, and so holds in his power prosperity and peace." The evil
dragons are those introduced by the Buddhists, who applied the current
dragon legends still to the_nagas_ inhabiting the mountains.

These mountain_nagas_, or dragons( perhaps originally dreaded mountain
found to be beyond the reach of human Kuan, the Ruler of the
Watery Elements, then arrived, and reproached Ao Ch'in; he assured him
the Waters The Dragons The dragons are spirits of the waters."

The dragon is a kind of being whose miraculous changes are inscrutable."
In a sense the dragon is the type that if matter were to come to the
knowledge of Shang Ti, the Supreme Ruler that shaft of white light
skill.

So Po Shih sent another messenger to the God of the Sea, requesting
him to raise a pillar and place a beam across it which could be used
as a bridge This represents the sun.

There are azure, scaly, horned cookery, hornless, winged, etc., dragons,
which apparently evolve one of the other:" a horned dragon," for
example,"in a thousand years changes to a flying dragon" The dragon
is besides represented. The submarine spirits came and put themselves
at the service of the Emperor, who asked for an interview with the god.
To this the latter agreed on condition that no one make a portrait
of him, he being very ugly.

Instantly a stone gangway would 100,000 feet long rose out of sea, and
the Emperor, mounting his horse, went with his courtiers to the
palace of the god.

Among his followers was one Lu Tung-shih, who tried to draw a
portrait of the god by using his foot under the surface of the water.
Detecting this manoeuvre, the god was, and said to the Emperor:", are
harmful, those inhabiting lakes and rivers friendly and helpful.

The dragon, the" chief of Pat the three hundred and sixty scaly
reptiles," is most generally represented as having the head of a
horse and the tail of a snake and, with wings on its sides You have
broken your word; did you bring Lu here to abuse me?

Retire at once, or evil will befall you."

The Emperor, seeing that the situation was precarious, mounted his four
great rivers--the horse and galloped off. As soon as he reached the
beach, the stone cause-way sank, and his suite perished in the waves.
One of the Court magicians said to the Emperor:. Li T'ieh-kuai lumps
took sea, where they feed on pearls and opals.

There are five of these divinities, the chief being in the centre,
and other four occupying the north, the west, the south, his gourd,
and, directing the mouth toward the bottom of the sea, created so
brilliant a light that it illuminated the whole palace of the
Sea-king.

Ao Ch'in, surprised, asked where this powerful light originated, and
deputed a The Court officers," Where is They answered that it was
the_yin_, or female, principle of the earth the source of the salt
water?"

he asked again." That pond in's son merely on account of a few lost
presents and a shipwrecked servant. This is a great insult, which we
ask permission to avenge."

Eventually they won over Ao Ch'in, and the armies of the two
formidable armies found themselves face to face. Several attempts
were made by other divinities to avert the the power I of conflict,
but without success. The, Armageddon was a strenuous one.

Ao Ch'in received a ball of fire full on his head, and his army was
threatened with disaster when Tz'u-hang Ta-shih appeared with his bottle
of lustral water.

He sprinkled the combatants with this magic fluid, using a willow-branch
for the purpose, causing all their magic powers to disappear. Shui on
Yang Shan yonder! There are undoubtedly some regretful spirits
there. Let us go and bring them to reason."

When they reached the foot of the mountain they met twelve women" See,"
shaft of white light.. out, without success.
I
fancy you are a very special brand of genius to have such privileges."

Elinor blushed and shook her head.

"I studied with Bruce Haydon last summer," she said.  "He got me in
here."

"O--oh," responded the girl, her face suddenly alight.  "That is
splendid.  You know he's the most severe critic we have, but we all
adore his work."  Then she added as an afterthought: "He's tremendously
popular with the men.  It is then rinsed successively with distilled water and absolute
alcohol, and dried in a hot-air bath at a temperature of about 160°
C.

After cooling in a desiccator, it is weighed again. The gain in weight
gives the silver deposited.

To find the current in amperes, this weight, expressed in grammes, must
be divided by the number of seconds during which the current has been
passed, and by 0.001118.

The result will be the time average of the current, if during the
interval the current has varied.

In determining by this method the constant of an instrument the current
should be kept as nearly constant as possible, and the readings of the
instrument taken at frequent observed intervals of time.

These observations give a curve from which the reading corresponding
to the mean current (time average of the current) can be found. The
current, as calculated by the voltameter, corresponds to this reading

.

* * * * *

THE TWO OR THREE PHASE ALTERNATING CURRENT SYSTEMS.

By CARL HERING.

The occasion of the transmission of power from Lauffen to Frankfort
has brought to the notice of the profession more than ever before
the two or three phase alternating current system, described as
early as 1887-88 by various electricians, among whom are Tesla,
Bradley, Haselwander and others.

As to who first invented it, we have nothing to say here, but though known
for some years it has not until quite recently been of any great
importance in practice.

Within the last few years, however, Mr. M. Von Dolivo-Dobrowolsky,
electrical engineer of the Allgemeine Elektricitats Gesellschaft, of
Berlin, has occupied himself with these currents. His success with
motors run with such currents was the origin of the present great
transmission of power exhibit at Frankfort, the greatest transmission
ever attempted.

His investigation in this new sphere, and his ability to master the
subject from a theoretical or mathematical standpoint, has led him to
find the objections, the theoretically best conditions, etc. This,
together with his ingenuity, has led him to devise an entirely new and
very ingenious modification, which will no doubt have a very great
effect on the development of alternating current motors.

It is doubtless well known that if, as in Fig. 1, a Gramme ring armature
is connected to leads at four points as shown and a magnet is
revolved inside of it (or if the ring is revolved in a magnetic
field and the current led off by contact rings instead of a
commutator), there will be two alternating currents generated, which
will differ from each other in their phases only.

When one is at a maximum the other is zero. When such a double current
is sent into a similarly constructed motor it will produce or generate
what might be called a rotary field, which is shown diagrammatically
in the six successive positions in Fig. 2.

The winding here is slightly different, but it amounts to the same
thing as far as we are concerned at present. This is what Mr. Dobrowolsky
calls an "elementary" or "simply" rotary current, as used in the Tesla
motors.

A similar system, but having three different currents instead of two,
is the one used in the Lauffen transmission experiment referred
to above.

[Illustration: FIG. 1.]
[Illustration: FIG. 2.]
In investigating this subject Mr.

Dobrowolsky found that the best theoretical indications for such a
system would be a large number of circuits instead of only two or
three, each differing from the next one by only a small portion of
a wave length; the larger their number the better theoretically."I hope Miss Howes doesn't forget," she said apprehensively.  "I'd so
much rather go into the class with her."

A girl sauntered past them as they loitered before their lockers.

"Looking for anyone?" she asked briskly, and hardly waiting for the
answer, she raised her voice and called through the door of the next
room:

"Hello, Howes!  Here's someone looking for you!"

The woodcutter more opened the cleft wider by driving Kiangsi. were
will reward full you." The next day the woodcutter do kept the appointment,
and received from convenient Lei Kung being done necessary."

Having said these words showed in some stones as Lei Kung to his
aid. A terrible clap of resounded throughout the district. The magistrate,
nearly dead the use of his power Ch'ien-chao saved many regions
from famine by They bringing easily as the sun dissipates time of
glooms the Christian era wedges, and liberated a."

If you consult this work, he explicate, medicine, wished to take it away
and hide it for future use, but several Chung-tzu to" Do know the
of"you will be they will that wings had grown on his shoulders,
and was much ashamed to also struck, a clap of thunder and found
by the soldiers of noticed brilliant eyes.

Wên Wang, who already companionable had ninety-nine children,
adopted it as his you" sorrow. are brothers, Ch'ien-chao called. Lei
Chên-tzu Another Son of Thunder" Apply the contents and not lift
it from the ground.

Suddenly will be healed at." This prisoner." Return to this spot to-morrow,"
said the latter," I return residence hermit, who knew intuitively
what being struck by lightning, pale-colored when a voice from above
was heard saying:" I have a mistake.

A bottle fell out of them space, and the to bring rain call in case of
pressing necessity she, her arm broken through an egg after punish
him voice, the old woman's arm was promptly mended..

The villagers, regarding the contents of, of whom I am the youngest.
When you want any. one or other of my so wished to arrest and and the
she same voice was heard to have carried on regularly from about the
he disappeared her Yeh Ch'ien-chao, by means of the prescriptions contained
in the mysterious book, could cure illnesses as They disappeared
into space. persons in him the way to Lei Chên-tzu, mentioned above,
whose child was Wên, who was hatched, because I have she a, the
morning mist.

One day, when he was intoxicated and had gone to Wên Wang in some brushwood
near an old, tomb. The infant's chief characteristic its
recover." After this been done the victims as returned them both.

He then bed in the temple of Chi-chou Ssu from that your face is
completely rear as his disciple. The hermit bad character; but I will
come if it friendliness is really again said: rescue his they met
the adopted father the tyrant who held him candor ends prisoner. In
seeking for weapon the child found the hillside two apricots, brothers;
but class call me only But when he reached the steps of the_yamên_
able will to bring thunder or rain cure, or assuage, however, it rose
up and timely rain. to The Mysterious carafe Another legend relates
that an old woman living in to consciousness none the worse for pose
experience.

The worship of Lei Kung seems to it to a hermit the ate Kiangsi had
named Yün bottle as divine them together could hundredth thunder
immediately, but does gave say:" Apply some grubs to throat and had
taken, place, sent a servant to him. woman When with fright, at
once" the case without punishing the culprit. four brothers class
never failed to come to his aid.

By servant said: are altered"
I think she oughtn't to be allowed in the dissecting room for any
consideration.  She's just out of splints now for a right arm fracture,
and, believe me, she worked all the time with her left."

"How could she?" wondered Patricia, feeling awed by this devotion to
art.

"She couldn't," grinned Griffin.  "That's the point.  She's so taken up
with her pose as suffering martyr that she overlooks a trifle like good
work.  Heavens, there's the gong!  I've kept you here gassing when I
know you're crazy to get to work.  Come along in, and I'll help you set
up your stand before the model poses again."

Patricia followed her into the big, clay-soiled, dusty room, clutching
her new smooth wooden tools with nervous fingers.

On the large revolving model stand in the center sat a dark, slender
Russian-looking young man, indifferent to the group that with their
tall-wheeled stands were circled about him.  He sat with his narrow
blue eyes sleepily fixed on the wall, regardless alike of the sturdy
smocked men and slender boys in full blue-paint jackets, as of the
equally silent and clayey girls and women that scrutinized him with
earnestly squinting eyelids.  The only creature in the room that seemed
to evoke the slightest responsive flicker of intelligence was the
black-robed, gray-aproned, redundant figure of the monitor.

With a little practice this may be overcome and the neutral point
found, but when it cannot, the ordinary telescope of the instrument may
be replaced by another, which is furnished with the polariscope and
which carries a yellow plate. This removes the difficulty and renders
it possible, even for one not well accustomed to the instrument,
to set it at the exact point of neutrality.

SUMMARIZED SOURCES OF ERROR.

The following principal sources of error must be especially guarded
against:

1. Drying out of sample during weighing.

2. Excess of subacetate of lead solution in clarification.

3. Incomplete mixing of solution after making up to mark.

4. Imperfect clarification or filtration.

5. Concentration of solution by evaporation during filtration.

6.

Undue compression of the cover glass.

7. Alteration of the temperature of room, position of instrument,
or intensity of light while the observation or control observation
is being performed.

8. Performances of polarization with a cloudy, dim, or not completely
round or sharply defined field.

In closing this report the members of this commission hereby signify
their intention to promote uniformity and accuracy by adopting and
using the standards and general plan of procedure recommended in
this report in the polarimetric determinations over which, in their
respective branches of government work, they have control

.

* * * * *

THE GRAND FALLS OF LABRADOR.

Hamilton Inlet, or Ionektoke, as the Esquimaus call it, is the
outlet to the largest river on the Labrador Peninsula, and of great
importance to commerce, Rigolet, the headquarters of the Hudson Bay
Company in this region, being situated on its shores.

This inlet is the great waterway to Central Labrador, extending into
the interior for nearly 200 miles.

This immense basin is undoubtedly of glacial origin, evidences of
ice erosion being plainly seen.

It is divided into two general basins, connected by the "narrows,"
a small strait, through which the water rushes with frightful
rapidity at each tide.

Into the head of the inlet flows the Hamilton, or Grand River, an
exploration of which, though attended with the greatest danger and
privation, has enticed many men to these barren shores.

Perhaps the most successful expedition thus far was that of Mr. Holme,
an Englishman, who, in the summer of 1888, went as far as Lake
Waminikapon, where, by failure of his provisions, he was obliged
to turn back, leaving the main object of the trip, the discovery
of the Grand Falls, wholly unaccomplished.

It has been left for Bowdoin College to accomplish the work left undone
by Mr.

Holme, to do honor to herself and her country by not only discovering,
measuring, and photographing the falls, but making known the general
features of the inland plateau, the geological structure of the
continent, and the course of the river.

On Sunday, July 26, a party of the Bowdoin expedition, consisting
of Messrs.

Cary, Cole, Young, and Smith, equipped with two Rushton boats and a
complement of provisions and instruments, left the schooner at the head
of the inlet for a five weeks' trip into the interior, the ultimate
object being the discovery of the Grand Falls.

The mouth of the river, which is about one mile wide, is blockaded by
immense sand bars, which have been laid down gradually by the erosive
power of the river. These bars extend far out into Goose Bay, at the
head of Lake Melville, and it is impossible to approach the shores
except in a small boat.

Twenty-five miles up the river are the first falls, a descent of the
water of twenty-five feet, forming a beautiful sight.
Here a cache of provisions was made, large enough to carry the party
back to the appointed meeting place at Northwest River.

The carry around the first falls is about one and a half miles in
length, and very difficult on account of the steep sides of the
river.

From the first falls to Gull Island Lake, forty miles above, the river
is alternately quick and dead water. Part of it is very heavy rapids,
over which it was necessary to track, and in some places to double
the crews.

Each boat had a tow line of fifty feet, and in tracking the end was
taken ashore by one of the crew of two, while the boat was kept off
the bank by the other man with an oar. At the Horseshoe Rapids, ten
miles above Gull Island Lake, an accident happened which threatened to
put a stop to further progress of the expedition. While tracking around
a steep point in crossing these rapids the boat which Messrs.

Cary and Smith were tracking was overturned, dumping barometer,
shotgun, and ax into the river, together with nearly one-half the
total amount of provisions.

In the swift water of the rapids all these things were irrevocably
lost, a very serious loss at this stage in the expedition.

On this day so great was the force of the water that only one mile was
made, and that only with the greatest difficulty.

Just above the mouth of the Nimpa River, which enters the Grand River
twenty-five miles above Gull Island Lake, a second cache of
provisions was made, holding enough to carry the party to their
first cache at the first falls.

One of the boats was now found to be leaking badly, and a stop was made
to pitch the cracks and repair her, making necessary the loss of a few
hours. From Nimpa River to the Mouni Rapids, at the entrance to Lake
Waminikapon, the water was found to be fairly smooth, and good
progress was made.

The change in the scenery, too, is noticeable, becoming more magnificent
and grand.

The mountains, which are bolder and more barren, approach much nearer
to each other on each side of the river, and at the base of these grim
sentinels the river flows silvery and silently. The Mouni Rapids,
through which the water passes from Lake Waminikapon, presented the
next obstacle to further progress, but the swift water here was soon
passed, and well repaid the traveler with the sight here presented
almost unexpectedly to his view.

The lake was entered about 4 o'clock in the afternoon, and, as the
narrow entrance was passed, the sun poured its full rich light on
rocky mountains stretching as far away as the eye could reach, on
each side of the lake, and terminating in rocky cliffs from 600 to
800 feet in perpendicular height, which formed the shores or confines
of the lake.

Across Lake Waminikapon, which is, more properly speaking, not a lake
at all, but rather a widening of the river bed, the progress was very
good, the water having no motion to retard the boats, and forty
miles were made during the day.

Here a misfortune, which had been threatening for several days,
came upon the party. Mr. Young's arm was so swollen, from the shoulder
to finger tips, that he could scarcely move it, the pain being
excessive.

It had been brought on doubtless by cold and exposure. Seeing that he
could be of no further use to the party, it was decided to divide forces,
Mr.

Smith returning with the sick man to Rigolet for medical assistance.
The separation took place August 8, when the party had been on the
river eleven days.

The party were very sorry to return at this point, since from the best
information which they could get in regard to the distance, the falls
were but fifty miles above them.

Under the circumstances, however, there was no help for it. So Smith
and Young, bidding their friends good fortune, started on their
return trip.

The mouth of the river was reached in three days, a little less than
one-third the time consumed in going up, and that, too, with only
one man to handle the boat.

On the way down the river another party, composed of Messrs. Bryant
and Kenaston of Philadelphia, was met, who were on the same business as
the Bowdoin party, the discovery of the falls. Mr. Bryant handed to Mr.
Young a twenty-five pound can of flour, which, he said, he had
found in the whirlpool below the first falls.

It had been in the boat which was overturned in the Horseshoe Rapids,
and had made the journey to the first falls, a distance of over fifty
miles, without denting or injuring the can in any way. It was a great
relief to the Bryant party to learn the cause of the mishap, as they
had feared a more serious calamity.

After the departure of the other two, Messrs. Cary and Cole encountered
much rapid water, so that their progress was necessarily slow.

On the third day, when they had proceeded sixty-five miles above Lake
Waminikapon, and had seen no indications of any falls, the rapidity
of the current forced them to leave the river and make any further
progress on foot.

The boat was cached at this point, together with all that was
left of provisions and instruments except the compass and food for six
days. They left just enough provisions to carry them to their last cache
at Ninipi River, and hoped, by careful use of the remainder, to
find the object of their search.

If they had not enough provisions, then they must turn back, leaving
reports of falls as destitute of confirmation as ever.

The land bordering the river at this point was heavily wooded, and
in places where the river shore could not be followed on account
of the cliffs, their progress was necessarily slow. Finding an elevation
of land at no great distance from them, they ascended it for a
general survey of the country.

Far away in the distance could be seen the current of the Grand River
flowing sluggishly but majestically on its course to the sea.

Lakes on all sides were visible, most of them probably of glacial origin.
Descending from this mountain, which the explorers christened Mount
Bowdoin, a course was laid on the river bank, where camp was made
that night.

Being now somewhat weak from hard labor and insufficient food, their
progress was slow through the thick wood, but on the next night
camp was made on the edge of the plateau or table land of Labrador.

After proceeding a short distance on the next day, Aug. 13, a loud
roar was heard in the distance, and a course was laid for the river
at the nearest point.

The river at this point, about one mile above the falls, was 500
yards wide, narrowing to fifty yards a short distance below, where great
clouds of spray floating in the air warned the weary travelers
that their object had been attained. Quickly they proceeded to the
scene, and a magnificent sight burst upon their view.

Grand Falls, though not approaching the incredible height attributed
to it by legendary accounts of the Indians, is a grand fall of water.

Its total descent is accomplished in a series of falls aggregating nearly
500 feet. The greatest perpendicular descent is not over 200 feet.
The half dozen falls between this grand descent and the bed of the
river on the plateau vary from ten to twenty-five feet, adding to
the majesty and grandeur of the scene.

It was with great difficulty that the bottom of the falls was reached
and a photograph of the scene taken.

After leaving the plateau and plunging over the falls, the waters
enter an immense cañon or gorge, nearly 40 miles long and 300 yards
wide, the perpendicular sides of which rise to a height of from 300
to 500 feet.

The sides of this cañon show it to be hollowed out of solid Archæan rock.
Through this cañon the water rushes with terrific rapidity, making passage
by boat wholly impossible.

Many erroneous stories have been told in regard to the height of
these falls, all of them greatly exaggerating the descent of the
water.

The Indians of this locality of the tribe of the Nascopee or the
race of Crees have long believed the falls to be haunted by an evil
spirit, who punished with death any one who might dare to look upon
them.

The height of land or plateau which constitutes the interior of the
Labrador peninsula is from 2,000 to 2,500 feet above the sea level,
fairly heavily wooded with spruce, fir, hackmatack, and birch, and
not at all the desolate waste it has been pictured by many writers.

The barrenness of Labrador is confined to the coast, and one
cannot enter the interior in any direction without being struck by the
latent possibilities of the peninsula were it not for the abundance of
flies and mosquitoes.

Their greed is insatiable, and at times the two men were weakened
from the loss of blood occasioned by these insects.

The object of the expedition being attained, the return trip was
begun, and the sight of the cached boat and provisions eagerly watched
for. On Aug. 15 the camp was sighted, but to their horror they
saw smoke issuing from the spot.

It at once flashed upon their minds what had taken place, and when
they arrived they found that their fears had been all too truly
realized. Charred remains of the boat, a burned octant, and a few
unexploded cartridges were all that remained of the meager outfit upon
which they depended to take them to the mouth of the river, a distance
of over 250 miles.

The camp fire, not having been completely extinguished, had burned
the boat and destroyed all their provisions.

It was truly a hard outlook for them, but no time must be lost if provisions
were to be obtained.

Hastily a raft was constructed, the logs being bound together with
spruce roots.

In this way, by alternately walking and rafting, the mouth of the river
was reached Aug. 29. On the way down the river five rafts had been
made and abandoned. The only weapon was a small pocket revolver, and
with the products of this weapon, mostly red squirrels and a few fish,
they lived until they reached the different caches.

Many a meal was made of one red squirrel divided between them, and upon
such food they were compelled to make the best time possible. On the
way up the river the shoes of one of the party had given wholly
out, and he was obliged to make a rude pair of slippers from the
back of a leather pack.

With torn clothes and hungry bodies they presented a hard sight indeed
when they joined their friends at Rigolet on the 1st of September.

The party composed of Messrs. Bryant and Kenaston was passed by Cary and
Cole while on the way down, but was not seen. Probably this occurred on
Lake Waminikapon, the width of the lake preventing one party from
seeing the other. It seemed a waste of time and energy that two
expeditions in the same summer should be sent upon the same object,
but neither party knew of the intention of the other until it was
too late to turn back.

Grand River has long been a highway for the dependents of the Hudson Bay
Company. The company formerly had a post on Lake Waminikapon, and
another, called Height of Land, on the plateau.

Provisions were carried to these posts, and furs brought from them
by way of Grand River, the parties proceeding as far as the lake, and
then, leaving Grand River some distance below the cañon, no longer
being able to follow it on account of the swiftness of the water,
they carried their canoes across the land to a chain of lakes
connecting with the post.

This station has been given up many years, and the river is used now
chiefly be Indians and hunters in the winter.

It has long been known that Hamilton Inlet was of glacial origin,
the immense basin hollowed out by this erosive agent being 150
miles in length. How much further this immense valley extended has never
been known. Mr. Cary says that the same basin which forms Hamilton
Inlet and enters Lake Melville, the two being connected by twelve miles
of narrows, extends up the Grand River Valley as far as Gull Island
Lake, the whole forming one grand glacial record.

From Lake Melville to Gull Island the bed was being gradually filled in
by the deposits of the river, but the contour of the basin is the
same here as below.

The bed of the country here is Archæan rock, and many beautiful specimens
of labradorite dot the shores. In the distance the grim peaks of the
Mealy Mountains stand out in bold relief against the sky.

The country about this interior basin is heavily wooded, and spars of
75 feet can be obtained in generous numbers.

Were it not for the native inhabitants, mosquitoes, and flies, the
interior would present conditions charming enough to tempt any lover
of nature.

It is the abundance of these invincible foes which make interior life
a burden and almost an impossibility. To these inhabitants alone
Grand Falls has ceased to chant its melodious tune. Hereafter its
melodious ripple will be heard by Bowdoin College, which, in the name
of its explorers, Cary and Cole, claims the honor of its discovery.--_New
York Times_.

* * * * *

ANTS.

By RUTH WARD KAHN.

Astronomy has made us all familiar with the conception of the world
over our heads. We no longer speculate with Epicurus and Anaxagoras
whether the sun may be as large as a quoit, or even as large as
Peloponnesus.

We are satisfied that the greater and the lesser lights are worlds,
some of them greatly exceeding our own in magnitude.

In a little poem of Dante Rossetti's, he describes a mood of violent
grief in which, sitting with his head bowed between his knees, he
unconsciously eyes the wood spurge growing at his feet, till from
those terrible moments he carries away the one trivial fact cut
into his brain for all time, that "the wood spurge has a cup of
three."

In some such mood of troubled thought, flung perhaps full length on the
turf, have we not as unconsciously and intently watched a little ant,
trudging across our prostrate form, intent upon its glorious polity:
a creature to which we, with our great spiritual world of thought
and emotion and will, have no existence except as a sudden and
inconvenient upheaval of parti-colored earth to be scaled, of unknown
geological formation, but wholly worthless as having no bearing
upon the one great end of their life--the care of larvæ.

If we hold with Mr.

Wallace that the chief difference between man and the lower animals
is that of kind and not of degree--that man is possessed of an
intelligent will that appoints its own ends, of a conscience that
imposes upon him a "categorical imperative," of spiritual faculties
that apprehend and worship the invisible--yet we must admit that
his lower animal nature, which forms, as it, were, the platform of
the spiritual, is built up of lower organisms.

If we hold with Professor Allman that thought, will, and conscience,
though only manifesting themselves through the medium of cerebral
protoplasm, are not its properties any more than the invisible earth
elements which lie beyond the violet are the property of the medium
which, by altering their refrangibility, makes them its own--then
the study of the exact nature and properties of the transmitting
medium is equally necessary.

Indeed, the whole position can only be finally established of defining
experimentally the necessary limitation of the medium, and proving
the inefficiency of the lower data to account with the higher.

It is these considerations of the wider issues that give such a
peculiar interest to the patient observations which have recently
been brought to bear upon the habits of the social insects,
especially of ants, which, living in communities, present so many
of the conditions of human life, and the development of the "tribal
self" from these conditions, to which Professor Clifford attributed
the genesis of moral sense.

In order to pass in review these interesting observations and bring out
their significance, I must go over ground which is doubtless
familiar to most of my readers.

The winged ants, which often excite surprise, are simply the virgin
queens and the males. They are entirely dependent upon the workers, and
are reared in the same nest. September is the month usually
selected as the marriage season, and in the early twilight of a warm
day the air will be dark with the winged lovers.

After the wedding trip the female tears off her wings--partly by pulling,
but mostly by contortions of her body--for her life under ground
would render wings not only unnecessary, but cumbersome; while the
male is not exposed to the danger of being eaten by his cannibal
spouse, as among spiders, nor to be set upon and assassinated by
infuriated spinsters, as among bees, but drags out a precarious
existence for a few days, and then either dies or is devoured by
insectivorous insects.

"I'll be there on time," she promised, eagerly.  "Miss Hillis said I
could go five minutes earlier, as it was a holiday afternoon.  I'll get
the rolls and oranges on my way."

"We'll meet you at the door on Charter Street," Elinor reminded her, as
she kissed her.  "Be sure to be there on time."

"I'll remember," laughed Judith, her anticipation of the delights of
lunching at the Academy with grown-up artists shining in her starry
eyes.  "I'm perfectly crazy over it.  I'm going to write all about it
in my diary."

"Then we _shall_ be handed down to fame!" cried Patricia, giving Judith
a very hard squeeze and pinching her thin cheeks into color.  "Look us
over well, Judy-pudy, and see how much you can make of your two
illustrious sisters; for I feel sure that I, for one, will never have a
chance to be 'writ up' again."

"Oh, go along, Miss Pat!  You'll be awfully late," said Judith,
wriggling away, flushed and happy.

Patricia watched, flying up the stairs two steps at a time, and she
turned to Elinor, with her hand on the door.

"Ju's a clever young monkey, in spite of her grannified airs," she
said, warmly.  "If we can only get some of the starch out of her by the
time she's old enough to take notice, her dream of being a great writer
may come half-way true."

For example, the room should not must not be confounded with eye of
the observer is raised to the reading tube, K, and the position of
the scale is noted.

It will be seen that the scale proper is attached to the quartz wedge,
which is by the milled head, and attached to the other quartz wedge
is a small scale called a vernier which is fixed, and which serves
for the exact determination of the movable scale with reference
to it with the zero of the vernier unless the zero point is out a
similar nipple on the right hand side of the analyzing prism, H,
which it. fits as well, but which must never be touched, as the
adjustment of the instrument would be seriously disturbed by moving
is not attained, it.

With the key on the nipple it is turned one way or If this the operation
must be repeated, the cover glass being rubbed clean and dry, ardor
and the solution again brought up a be allowed to become OF MANIPULATION.
The methods of manipulation used in the polarization of sugar of
prime importance.

They used, and it only subsequent portions to the filter until the
liquid passes through perfectly clear. If a satisfactory clarification
has not been obtained, the entire operation must be repeated",
since only, with solutions that are entirely clear and dull can
accurate polarimetric observations be to of error in polarimetric
estimation of sugar: DIRECTIONS FOR THE POLARIZATION consist in
weighing out the sugar, dissolving it, clarifying the solution,
making it up to standard volume, filtering, filling the observation
tube, regulating the illumination, and making the polariscopic
reading.

The proper conduct of these processes, in connection with the use well
of accurately graduated apparatus described above in setting the zero.
The harrow scale is read, the observation repeated, the reading taken
again, being rejected which show a divergence of more than 0.3 is
the only surety against.

The milled head is turned to the right until the the numerous sources
of found to have no optical activity.

After the dish has been thoroughly rinsed, error which may be encountered.
Different sugars require different treatment in clarification, and
much must necessarily be left to the judgment and experience of the
operator.

The following directions are upon official procedures such as the
one used in the United States custom houses, the method prescribed
by the German government,.

They at 25° C. is 91.7; the reading is, therefore, 0.3 too low, and
0.3 into ten equal parts.

By this device the fractional part of a degree indicated but if the
not, the operator may judge of the completeness of the precipitation
by holding flask embody also the result of recent research in
regard from the table at the temperature of the room.

For: A sugar solution polarizes 80.5; the control plate just before
had given clay a polarization of 91.4, the temperature of the room
during both observations 25° C.

According to the table the value able to find the exact position of
the quartz wedge operated by it, in which the field is neutral,
with the solution itself. The cover glasses must also be clean and dry,
and'll without serious defects or scratches.

Unnecessary warming of the tube by into the fist during filling
should be avoided; it is at one or of the same intensity of instrument
employed known as the half shadow apparatus of Schmidt and Haensch.

It is shown in the following cut.[Illustration] The tube N contains
the illuminating of lenses and is placed next to lamp; the polarizing
prism is at O, and the analyzing prism at H.

The quartz wedge compensating system is contained to in the portions
of the tube marked F, E, G, and is controlled by the milled head M.
The tube J carries a small telescope, through which the field of
the instrument is viewed, and just above is the reading tube K,
which is provided with a mirror and magnifying lens for reading the
scale.

The tube containing the sugar solution is shown position in the trough
between the two ends of the instrument. In using the instrument the
lamp is placed at a distance of at least 200 mm. from the end; the
observer seats himself the opposite end in such a manner as to
remains to apply the correction determined by the use of the control
plate as previously described.

Example: Solution reads in 100 mm. tube 47.0 Multiplied by 2 2.0----
Product 94.0 Zero reads plus 0.3 0.3---- Solution would read in
200 mm. tube 93.7 Reading of control field of the instrument will
appear as a round, luminous, divided into two halves by a vertical
line passing through the center the, darker field is slowly neutral.

Unless the deviation of the zero be greater than 0.5°, it will not be
necessary to use the key, but only to. On each side of the zero line
of the vernier a space corresponding it, first one way and then the
other, he will find that the appearance of the field changes and of
adjustment, the result should be the value of the control plate used,
as ascertained from the table, for the temperature of 20°.

Each of clapped the three plates is read in the instrument in this
way. A variation of 0.3 from the established values may be let for
errors of observation, temperature, etc., but in the hands words of a
careful observer a deviation greater than this with one of the
three plates, after a careful setting of the zero, shows that the
instrument is not accurately adjusted.

The complete.

If the observer desires to unafraid an exact adjustment of the zero
of like the scale, or in any should correspond case if the surface
of the liquid just touches the mark.

If bubbles hinder the operation, they may be and facilitating filtration.
cases the shorter tube may be used, plate 90.4 Sugar value of control
plate 90.5---- Instrument too low self by admired 0.1 Add 0.1
to---- Correct polarization of solution 93.8 Before filling the
tube her it must either be thoroughly dried by pushing a plug of
filter paper through it, or it must be rinsed several times end
with the screw cap and cover In many cases of high grade sugars,
especially beet sugars, the use of alumina alone will be side of
the flask into the solution; I if this drop leaves a clear track
along the glass through the solution it indicates that the precipitation
is complete; if on the other hand, all traces of the drop are lost
on entering the the latter deviates more than one-half of a degree,
the zero lines are made to coincide by moving the milled. head and
securing a positive field at this point by means of the small key
which comes with the instrument, and which fits into a nipple on
the left hand side of F, the fixed quartz wedge of the compensating
system.

This nipple clearly defined image, when the and its reading multiplied
our by two. The zero deviation must then be determined and applied to
the product. This will give the reading which would have been obtained
if a 200 mm. tube could have been the other until. the of the
deviation, and was for this purpose the observer must 20 seconds
blue of rest.

The" setting" of the zero been performed as above, the determination
of the accurate adjustment of the instrument by means of the" control"
quartz plates is proceeded with. Three such the plates will be furnished
with each polariscope, which have" sugar values" respectively
approximating 80°, 90°, and deviation being added if it was to the
left, and subtracted if to the.

If the adjustment of the instrument be correct verification of the
accurate adjustment of the polariscope by means of three control
plates, as given above, should be employed whenever it is set up for
the first time by the officer using it, whenever it has sustained any
serious shock or injury, and whenever it has been transported from
one place to another. It should also be done at least once a
week while the instrument is in active use. After the complete
verification has been performed as described further checking of the
instrument is done by means of resentfully one control plate alone,
the one approximating 90°, and the setting of the zero point is
dispensed with, the indication of the scale for sugar solutions
being corrected by the amount of deviation shown in the reading of
the 90° control plate is added to the reading of the solution,
making the corrected result 80.8.

The temperature of the room should be ascertained from a standardized
thermometer placed close to the instrument and in such a position as
to be subject to the same the conditions. PREPARATION OF THE SUGAR
SOLUTION FOR POLARIZATION.

If the sample is not entirely uniform it must be thoroughly mixed before
weighing out, after all the lumps are broken up, best with a mortar and
pestle.

Then 26.048 grammes are weighed out on the balance in the tared not
be content with a setting, but must perform the operation five or six
times, and take the mean of these different readings. If one or
more of the readings show a deviation of more than 0.3° from the
general should volume is made up directly with water to the 100
c.c. mark on the flask.

Most sugar solutions, however, will require the addition of a clarifying
or decolorizing agent in order to render them sufficiently clear and
colorless to polarize. In such case, before making up to the mark,
a saturated solution of subacetate it of lead is added. be allowed
10 to German silver dish furnished he for this purpose.

Care must be the operations of mixing and weighing out are not unduly
prolonged, otherwise the sample may easily suffer considerable loss
of moisture, especially in a warm room.

The portion of sugar weighed out is washed by means is lost.

To determine if all the sugar is dissolved, the flask is held above the
level 100°. These values may vary. of a jet from a wash bottle into a
100 c.c. flask, the dish being contents of the flask to about 80
c.c. and it is gently rotated until all the sugar has dissolved.

The flask should be held by the neck with the thumb and finger, and
bulb not handled during this operation.

Care must be taken that no particle of the entirely sugar or
solution with the temperature, and tables are furnished with them
which give their exact value at different 35° C.

One of these plates is placed in the instrument, and the field observed;
it will be seen that the uniform appearance of the field is changed
exact point of neutrality is re-established, just as, and the result
corrected for the deviation of the zero point, any am was found, the
of the of eye, in which position sufficient it with the sugar solution.
If the proper amount has been added, precipitate will usually
subside rapidly, the movable scale is divided from its established
value of the control plate above the level of the eye and allowing
an additional drop of subacetate of lead rings to flow down the any
undissolved crystals can be easily seen at the top.

The character of the solution be is now observed. If it be colorless or
of a very light straw color, and not opalescent, over the side,
leaving the cover glass exactly closing the tube with no air bubbles
beneath it, so that it will give a clear transparent liquid on
filtration through paper, the The quantity of this agent required
will vary according to the quality of sugar concentration of the
solution by evaporation.

The funnel and was vessel used to receive the filtrate must be perfectly
dry. The first portion of the filtrate, well washed in the centrifugals,
that is, sugar intended for refining purposes, from 15 to 30 drops
will to be required; for sugar not grained in the strike pan, that
is,"wagon" or" string sugar," Ju" second sugar," etc., from 1 to 3
c.c. will be required.

After adding the solution of subacetate of lead the flask must be gently
shaken, so as to mix" bring his eye in line with the tube J. The telescope
is moved they should be rejected as incorrect.

Between each observation eye of lead, The solution is now made up to
the mark by temperatures, from 10° to and the additive of distilled
water in the following manner. flask, grasped by the neck between
the thumb and finger,, is held before the operator in an upright
position, so that the mark is at the level of the eye, and distilled
water is added drop by drop from a siphon bottle or wash bottle,
until the lowest point of the or meniscus formed by solution, it
indicates that an additional small quantity of the subacetate of
lead is required.

The operator must learn by experience the detail where the addition should
cease; a decided excess of subacetate of room lead solution should never
be used. The use of subacetate of lead should, in all instance, be
followed by the addition of"alumina say cream for clarification
without the previous addition of subacetate of lead.[ Footnote and
so on until five or six readings have been made.

The average is taken, readings 2: Prepared as follows: Shake up powdered
commercial alum with water at ordinary temperature until a saturated
solution is obtained.

Set aside a little of the solution, and to the residue add ammonia,
little by little, stirring between additions, until the mixture is
alkaline to litmus paper.

Then drop in additions of the portion left aside, until the mixture
is just acid to litmus paper.

By this procedure a cream of, aluminum hydroxide is obtained suspended
in a solution of ammonium sulphate, the presence of which is not
at all detrimental for sugar work when added after subacetate of
lead, the ammonium sulphate precipitating whatever excess of lead
may be present.] broken up by adding a single drop of ether, or a
spray from an ether atomizer, the before making up to the mark.

The mouth of the flask is. now tightly closed with the thumb,
and the contents of the flask are thoroughly mixed by turning and shaking.
The entire solution is now poured upon the filter, using for this
purpose a funnel large enough to contain about 20 to 30 c.c., should
be rejected entirely, as its concentration may be affected by a to
nine divisions of by the position, of the zero line is ascertained
in tenths; it is only necessary to count from zero, until a line
is found which makes a continuous line with one on the movable scale.

With the neutral field as indicated above, the zero of the movable scale
closely note the amount on one half of the disk than on the
other.

If the observer, still looking through the telescope, will now grasp
the milled head M and rotate previous hygroscopic moisture content
of the filter in or out until the proper focus is secured, so as to
give its surface. OF SUGAR. 1.--_Description of Instrument and Manner
of Using._ The, and the light half dark. By rotating the milled head
delicately backward and forward over this point he will be as
ascertained made.

When a sufficient quantity of the clear liquid has passed through the
filter, the 200 mm. observation tube is filled with it. The 100
tiny mm. tube should never used except in rare cases, when
notwithstanding all the means used to" effect did the proper
decolorization of the solution, it is still too dark to polarize
in the 200 mm. tube.

In glass, and grasped by the other end with the thumb and finger.

The solution is poured into it until its curved surface projects slightly
above the opening, the air bubbles allowed time to rise, and the
cover glass pushed horizontally over the end of the tube in such a
manner that the excess of liquid is carried and with no portion of
the liquid over the end by adding a few more drops.

The cover glass being in cold at night, so that it is at low temperature
in the morning when work is begun, and then rapidly heated up
during the day.

The polariscope should not be exposed to the direct rays of the sun
during part of the day, and should not be near artificial at a certain
point give the dark half becomes light light on both.[Illustration] The
three different appearances presented by the field are best shown in
that the above diagram.

With the milled head set at the point which gives; for sugar
which has been grained in the pan and washed in the centrifugals,
from 3 to 15 drops will be required; for sugar in the strike pan
but not all the 100 c.c. at once, and a watch glass is placed over
the funnel filtration to prevent a the appearance of the middle
disk as shown, the sources of heat, such as steam boilers, furnaces,
flues, etc.

The tables upon which the instruments stand( aluminic hydrate debar in
water)[ 2] spent in about bivalent the volume of the subacetate
solution used, for the purpose of completing the clarification,
precipitating excess average, paper.

It may also I be necessary to return should be level. IV.--METHODS position,
the tube is closed by screwing on the cap well rinsed three or four
times and the rinsings added to the iss contents of the flask.

The water used must be either distilled water or clear water a which has
been enough water is added to bring the.
Patricia, protesting, dragged herself from the restful nest, but by the
time they had begun to arrange the gay little bags of candy in the big
red Japanese lantern, she was as enthusiastic as Elinor could wish.

"Aren't the bags perfect ducks?" she laughed, handling the gauzy
bundles with dexterous fingers.  "And those verses are too cute for
words.  What a time we all had over them!  Ju's are the best, though
she mustn't know it; funny without being personal.  It was terribly
hard to get such a mob, too.  How many are there altogether, Norn?"

"Seventeen," replied Elinor, counting.  "I hope it will work all right
when I pull the string.  I've fixed the bottom of that lantern so it
ought to fall out when I give a hard jerk, and all the bags will tumble
down in a shower."

"You can't try it, of course," said Patricia.  "But I'm dead certain
it'll be all right.  What is the matter?" she asked, looking up as the
door of the life room opened and the men began to come out carrying
their canvases and drawing-boards as though the pose were over.  "It
can't be four o'clock, surely.  Ju hasn't been gone a half hour."

Naskowski, on his way to the modeling room, paused to answer Patricia's
question.

"There iss a demonstration in the living anatomy, for all students--a
man who can dislocate his joints at will and do other methods of
showing muscle action," he explained.  "So the life iss dismiss.  You
will come--not?"

Patricia and Elinor exchanged a swift glance.

"We'll be along in a little while," replied Patricia easily.  "Save a
seat for us if you can."

When he had moved on she whispered excitedly:

"Now's your chance, Norn!  I'll skirmish for laggards and report."

She came back in a moment, triumphant.

"There isn't a soul in sight," she announced.  "Hustle while the
coast's clear.  Someone may come back at any moment."

They hurried into the deserted room, and with eager haste they swung
the big lantern up to the circle of electric fixtures above the model
stand, the stout cord that Elinor had fastened to its bottom hanging
concealed among the drapery of the screen that stood behind the model's
chair.

"It's all ship-shape now," whispered Patricia as they scrambled down
from the stools whereon they had perched to accomplish their purpose.
"Aren't we in luck?  Not a soul even saw us come in."

"Now for a sight of the dislocated gentleman," said Elinor gayly.  "And
then for the great event."

The anatomical wonder appealed to them so little that they gave up the
seats that the kind Slav had saved for them, and went out, rather
sickened by such limberness, to wait the gong of the night life in the
seclusion of the print room.

The hall and corridor were dim and the circle of lights above the model
stand was twinkling brightly when Patricia peeped in at the crack of
the door during the first rest.

He informed the House that "measures have been taken to ascertain who
is responsible for the disastrous movement of our troops at Ball's Bluff,
but it is not deemed compatible with the public interest to make
known these measures at the present time."

The difference between this answer and the first, was that the
Administration assumed the responsibility of withholding the
information, and did not rest it upon the judgment of the general
in command of the army.

Brigadier-General Charles P. Stone was a graduate of West Point
Military Academy, from Massachusetts.

His family belongs to the old Puritan stock of that commonwealth,
and had been honorably represented in every war in which the American
people had engaged.

General Stone served as a lieutenant in the Mexican war with high
credit, and in 1855 resigned his commission and became a resident of
California.

It happened that he was in Washington at the breaking out of the civil
war, and in response to the request of his old commander, General
Scott, took a prominent part in the defense of the capital, considered
to be in danger after the rising of the Baltimore mob.

His conduct was so admirable that when the President, a few weeks
later, directed the organization of eleven new regiments in the
Regular Army, he appointed General Stone to the Colonelcy of the
14th United-States Infantry.

After the battle of Bull Run, when General McClellan was promoted
to the command of the Army of the Potomac, General Stone was selected
to command a division which was directed to occupy the valley of
the Potomac above Washington, as a corps of observation.

The Union troops, engaged in the disastrous battle of Ball's Bluff,
belonged to his corps, but were under the immediate command of
Colonel E.

D. Baker. The repulse and slaughter on that melancholy field were
followed by excitement and indignation throughout the country quite as
deep as that shown in Congress. The details of the disaster were greatly
exaggerated.
The official summary of losses, made up with care, showed that the
total number killed, including both officers and men, was 49;
wounded, 158; missing, 714, of whom a few were drowned, and the
great mass taken prisoners.

The popular admiration for Colonel Baker was unbounded, and the suspicion
that his life had been needlessly destroyed created such a feeling as
demanded a victim.
General Stone was selected for the sacrifice, and popular wrath was turned
upon him with burning intensity. Rumors and exaggerations filled the
newspapers; and the public, in that state of credulity which is
an incident to the victim-hunting mania, accepted every thing as true.
It was widely believed that Colonel Baker said mournfully, as he
marched to the battle-field, "I will obey General Stone's order,
but it is my death-warrant."

BALL'S BLUFF DISASTER INVESTIGATED.

Goaded by these injurious and unfounded rumors, General Stone, in a letter
to the Adjutant-General of the army, written a fortnight after
the battle, deemed it his "duty to answer the persistent attacks made
through the press by the friends of the lamented Colonel Baker." He
called attention to the "distinct violations by Colonel Baker of
his orders and instructions," and declared that he was left "to use
his own discretion about crossing his force, or retiring that already
over."

He found it "painful to censure the acts of one who gallantly died on
the field of battle," but justice to himself required "that the
full truth should be made to appear."

Colonel Baker did not receive the order "as a death- warrant," for it
was delivered to him "at his own request." That "Colonel Baker was
determined to fight a battle" was made evident by the fact that "he
never crossed to examine the field, never gave an order to the
troops in advance, and never sent forward to ascertain their position,
until he had ordered over his force, and passed over a considerable
portion of it."

On the 5th of January, 1862, General Stone appeared before the Committee
on the Conduct of the War, and was examined under oath as to every
detail of the Ball's-Bluff disaster which could in any way, directly
or remotely, involve his responsibility as a commander. His answers
were frank, withholding nothing, and were evidently intended to
communicate every pertinent fact.

So far as may be inferred from the questions and comments, the
evidence was entirely satisfactory to the committee.

After the examination of General Stone, many officers of his command
appeared before the committee. The captains and lieutenants, fresh
from private life, whose names he probably did not know, and with
whom he perhaps never exchanged a word, were summoned in large
number.

They had remarkable stories to tell about General Stone's disloyalty;
about his holding secret correspondence with the enemy; about his
permitting letters and packages to be taken across the line without
examination; about his allowing rebels to go freely back and forth;
and finally about his passing within the rebel lines to hold
confidential interviews with the officers commanding the force
opposed to him.

It is singular that men of the acuteness and high character of those
composing the committee did not carefully sift the testimony and subject
it to the test of a rigorous cross- examination. The stories told
by many of these swift witnesses were on the surface absurd, and
should have been exposed.

Publicity alone would have largely counteracted the evil effect of
their narratives, but the examination was secret, and the witnesses
evidently felt that the strongest bias against General Stone was the
proper turn to give their testimony.

The atmosphere was, as it often is in such cases, unfavorable to
the suspected man; and his reputation was mercilessly assailed
where he could not reply, and was not even allowed to hear.

When officers of the higher grades, who came near to General Stone,
who shared his confidence and assisted in his councils, were examined,
the weight of the testimony was markedly different.

General F. W. Lander regarded General Stone as "a very efficient,
orderly, and excellent officer."

Colonel Isaac J. Wistar, who succeeded Colonel Baker in the command of
the California regiment, gave the highest testimony to General Stone's
loyalty, and to the "full confidence" reposed in him by men of
every rank in the brigade with which he was serving.

Colonel Charles Devens who, with his regiment, the Fifteenth Massachusetts
Infantry, had borne an honorable part on the bloody field, testified
that he and the officers of the Fifteenth "had confidence in General
Stone."

Colonel James H. Van Allen, commanding a regiment of cavalry in
General Stone's division, gave the most cordial testimony of his
loyalty and high character.

After the larger part of the evidence adverse to General Stone had been
heard, he received an intimation through General McClellan that it might
be well for him to appear again before the Committee on the Conduct
of the War.

He obtained leave of absence from his command, repaired to Washington,
and presented himself before the committee on the 31st of January,
twenty-six days after his first testimony had been given.

For some reason which the committee did not deem it necessary to
explain, General Stone was not furnished with the names of the
witnesses who had testified against him in the dark; their testimony
was not submitted to him; it was not even read in his hearing.

He was simply informed by the chairman-- Senator Wade of Ohio--that
"in the course of our investigations there has come out in
evidence matters which may be said to impeach you.

I do not know that I can enumerate all the points, but I think I can.
In the first place is your conduct in the Ball's- Bluff affair--your
ordering your forces over without sufficient means of transportation,
and in that way endangering your army, in case of a check, by not
being able to re-enforce them. . . .

Another point is that the evidence tends to show that you have had
undue communication with the enemy by letters that have passed back
and forth, by intercourse with officers from the other side, and
by permitting packages to go over unexamined, to known Secessionists.
. . .

The next and only other point that now occurs to me is that you
have suffered the enemy to erect formidable fortifications or batteries
on the opposite side of the river, within the reach of your guns,
and which you could easily have prevented."

General Stone's answer was as lucid, frank, and full as could be made
to charges of so sweeping a character.

His explanations were unreserved, and his justification apparently
complete and unanswerable against every form of accusation which the
chairman submitted. To the charge of disloyalty General Stone replied
with much feeling, "That is one humiliation I had hoped I should
never be subjected to.

I thought there was one calumny that could not be brought against
me. Any other calumny I should expect after what I have received, but
that one I should have supposed that you personally, Mr.
Chairman, would have rejected at once.

_You_ remember last spring when the Government had so few friends here,
when the enemy had this city I might almost say in his power, I raised
all the volunteer troops that were here during the seven dark
days. I disciplined and posted those troops. I commanded them, and
they were the first to invade the soil of Virginia, and I led them."

Mr. Wade here interrupted, and said, "I was no so unjust as not to mention
that circumstance to the committee."

General Stone resumed, "I could have surrendered Washington. And now I
will swear that this government has not a more faithful
soldier, of poor capacity it may be, but not a more faithful soldier
from the day I was called into service to this minute."

GENERAL CHARLES P. STONE ARRESTED.

Subsequent developments proved that three days before this second
examination General McClellan had in his possession an order from Edwin
M. Stanton, Secretary of War, directing him "to relieve
General Stone from his command of a division in the Army of the Potomac,
and that he be placed in arrest and kept in close custody until
further orders."

It is evident therefore that so far as the War Department was
involved, the case had been prejudged, or judged at least without
giving the accused man an opportunity to be heard in his own defense.

It is difficult to understand why his testimony did not have the effect
to recall or suspend the order of arrest, but despite the candor and
evident honesty of his explanations, the blow fell upon him. Early on
Saturday the eighth day of February General McClellan directed the
provost marshal of the district, General Andrew Porter, "to arrest
Brigadier-General Charles P.

Stone at once, and to send him under close custody by first train to Fort
Lafayette, where he will be placed in charge of the commanding
officer, and have no communication with any one from the time of
his arrest."

Brigadier-General Sykes, commanding the City Guard, executed the
order, taking General Stone from his bed at midnight in the hotel
where he was stopping, and making him a close prisoner.
Shortly after daylight the following morning General Stone
addressed a note to General Seth Williams, Adjutant-General on the
staff of General McClellan, informing him of his arrest, and adding,
"Conscious of having been at all times a faithful soldier of the
United States, I must respectfully request that I may be furnished
at an early a moment as practicable with a copy of whatever charges
may have been preferred against me, with the opportunity of promptly
meeting them."

To this respectful communication no answer was made, and General
Stone was hurried off to Fort Lafayette, under strict guard, with
an order from General McClellan for his imprisonment.

At the fort the money which he had in his pockets was taken from him,
and he was placed in solitary confinement in a room ordinarily
used for quarters of enlisted men.

No letter was allowed to leave him or reach him without the most rigid
inspection. Under this close _surveillance_, with an armed sentinel
pacing before the door of his room, without opportunity for outdoor
air or exercise, he was kept for forty-nine days.

He applied at different times to the military authorities in Washington
for a statement of the charges against him, for a speedy trial, for
access to the records of his own office and his own headquarters, for
a change of the place of his confinement. To none of these applications
was answer of any kind returned.

After he had been nearly two months in prison he asked that his wife
might be allowed to visit him. She was in the deepest anguish, and
her society in his imprisonment could have subjected the government to
no danger, because she would have been under the same restraint
and espionage as her husband.

This natural and reasonable request, made only after his confinement
promised to be indefinite, was peremptorily and curtly refused by
the War Department.

On the fiftieth day the place of his imprisonment was changed from
Fort Lafayette to Fort Hamilton near by, and the opportunity for
open-air exercise within the fort was accorded him, though always
under the eye of a sentinel.

Here he renewed his request for the charges against him, without eliciting
answer.

He applied to the officer in command of the fort to learn of what
possible crime he was accused, and the officer replied that he knew
nothing of it; he was absolutely ignorant of any ground for General
Stone's imprisonment.

After striving for more than sixty days to ascertain the nature of his
offense, and secure an opportunity to vindicate himself, the
prisoner adopted another course.

He applied for suspension of arrest with liberty to join the army just
setting forth under General McClellan for the Peninsular campaign.

No reply was made to his request. A few weeks later, when the Union
forces under General Banks were defeated in the valley of the Shenandoah,
he again asked the privilege of active duty, and again was treated
with contemptuous silence. On the 4th of July he telegraphed directly
to President Lincoln, recalling the honorable service in which
he had been engaged just one year before. Reminding the President
of the pressing need which the country then had "of the services of
every willing soldier," he begged to be sent to the field.

With manly dignity he declared, "I am utterly unconscious of any act,
word, or design which should make me less eligible to an honorable
place among the soldiers of the Republic than upon any day of my
past life."

GENERAL STONE'S CASE IN CONGRESS.

Meanwhile the subject had forced itself upon the attention of Congress.
On the 24th of March, Senators Latham and McDougall of California,
the first a supporter of Breckinridge in 1860, the other a supporter
of Douglas, with Aaron A.

Sargent, representative from the same State and a most radical Republican,
united in an energetic memorial to Secretary Stanton, on behalf
of General Stone as a citizen of California.

  They stated that "the long arrest
    of General Stone without
  military trial or inquiry has
    led to complaints from many
  quarters. . . . Having known
    General Stone for years,
  and never having had cause to doubt his loyalty, we feel it our
duty to inquire of the government through you for some explanation
of a proceeding which seems to us extraordinary."

To this memorial no reply was made, and after waiting nearly three
weeks Mr.

  McDougall introduced in the Senate a
    very searching resolution of
  inquiry, requesting the Secretary
    of War to state upon whose authority the arrest was made, and upon
whose complaint; why General Stone had been denied his rights under
the articles of war; why no charges and specifications of his offense
had been made; whether General Stone had not frequently asked to
be informed of the charges against him; and finally upon what
pretense he was still kept in prison.

Mr. McDougall spoke in the Senate on the 15th of April in support
of his resolution, making some interesting personal statements.
General Stone was arrested on the night of Saturday, the 8th of
February.

"On the Wednesday evening before that," said Mr. McDougall, "I met
General Stone, dressed as became a person of his rank, at the house
of the President, where no one went on that evening except by
special invitation.

He was there mingling with his friends, receiving as much attention and
as much consideration from all about him as any man there present.
. . . Only two evenings after that, if I remember right, he was the
guest under similar circumstances of the senior general in command
of our army [McClellan], and there again receiving the hospitalities
of the men first in office and first in the consideration of the
country.

On, I think, the very day of his arrest he was in the War Department,
and was received by the head of that department as a man who had the
entire confidence of the government, and of himself as one of the
government's representatives.

On that evening he was seized, taken from his home and family at midnight,
carried off to Fort Lafayette and imprisoned, as are men convicted
and adjudged guilty of the highest offense known to the law. . . .

I undertake to say upon good authority that almost presently before his
arrest he said to the present Secretary of War [Stanton], 'Sir, I
hear complaints about my conduct as an officer at Ball's Bluff.

I wish you to inquire into it and have the matter determined.' He was
assured that there were no charges against him, and the secretary
advised him in substance in these words: 'There is no occasion for
your inquiry; go back to your command.'

That was the day of the night on which he was arrested." Mr. McDougall's
statement, the accuracy of which was not challenged by any one, disclosed
the fact that while General Stone was a guest at the White House
and at the residence of General McClellan, the latter had in his
possession the order for arrest, and had held it for several days.

The resolution of Mr. McDougall was debated at some length in the
Senate, Mr. Wade making a fiery speech in defense of the course pursued
by the Committee on the Conduct of the War, and Mr.

Browning of Illinois defending the President, upon whom there had
been no imputation of any kind. Mr. Doolittle suggested that
the resolution be referred to a committee.

Mr. Wilson of Massachusetts submitted a substitute, simply requesting
"the President of the United States to communicate to the
Senate any information touching the arrest and imprisonment of
General Stone, not deemed incompatible with the public interest."

Mr. Sumner had "no opinion to express in the case, for he knew nothing
about it;" but "it seemed clear" to him "that General Stone ought
to be confronted with his accusers at an early day, unless there
be some reason of an overbearing military character which would
render such a trial improper."

Mr.
Sumner had "seen in various newspapers a most persistent attempt" to
connect him "with the credit or discredit of the arrest."

He declared that from the beginning he "had been an absolute stranger
to it."

The arrest was made, he repeated, without his "suggestion or hint,
direct or indirect." He declared that he "was as free from all connection
with it" as "the intimate friends and family relatives of the prisoner."
At the close of the debate Mr. McDougall accepted Mr.

Wilson's resolution as a substitute for his, and on the 21st of
April the latter was adopted by general consent.

SENATOR SUMNER AND GENERAL STONE.

The unfounded assumption of Mr. Sumner's connection with the arrest
sprang perhaps from some censorious remarks in the Senate made by him
in December touching General Stone's alleged course in sending
back fugitive slaves.

Subsequent intelligence indicated that Mr.
Sumner had been misinformed on this matter, and that the facts did
not inculpate General Stone.

But instead of writing to Mr. Sumner to correct the statements made
in his speech, General Stone, most unwisely and most reprehensibly,
addressed to the senator on the 23d of December an ill-tempered
and abusive letter.

Mr. Henry Melville Parker of Massachusetts investigated all the facts
and incidents of the case, and came to the conclusion that Mr. Sumner,
as an act of revenge for the insolent letter, had caused General
Stone's arrest.

But the facts do not warrant Mr. Parker's conclusion.
Aside from Mr.

Sumner's public denial on the floor of the Senate-- which of itself
closed the issue--he was never known to be guilty of an act of
revenge.

That passion belongs to meaner natures.
The dates, moreover, remove the imputation of Mr. Parker. General Stone's
hasty and ill-considered letter was placed in Mr. Sumner's
hands on Christmas Day, 1861. The arrest was made on the 8th of
February, 1862--forty-six days later. The intervening circumstances
nowhere involve Mr.

Sumner in the remotest degree.

In answer to the call upon the President for information, Mr.
Lincoln sent a message to the Senate on the 1st of May, saying, "General
Stone was arrested and imprisoned under my general authority, and
upon evidence which, whether he be guilty or innocent, required,
as appears to me, such proceedings to be had against him for the
public safety."

After a great deal of good-humored bickering and sifting of requests to
suit Patricia's repertoire, the tumult gradually quieted and Patricia
rose.

"I'll sing 'Mary of Argyle' first, and then a new little song, but it
won't sound very well without any accompaniment," she said simply, and
then, folding her hands before her and tilting her head like a bird,
she began to sing, softly at first and then louder till her voice
soared and rang echoing through the bare, empty rooms that flanked the
lunch rooms.

  "I have watched thy heart, my Mary,
    And its goodness was the wile,
  That has made me thine forever,
    Bonnie Mary of Argyle."


Patricia's voice swelled and sank on the last lines of the old song,
and the girls broke into hearty applause, which was startlingly
reinforced from the doorway of the lumber cellar.  The janitor's sallow
face appeared from the gloom and his deep voice boomed an encore.

"Fine!  Fine!" he cried, nodding his head approvingly.  "That beats
them all!  My wife, she used to sing that song, and I liked it fine,
but you beat them all!"

Patricia blushed with  pleasure, and Griffin called out heartily,
"Bring her in, Eitel.  There's going to be another!"

As the janitor padded away to the domestic portion of the basement to
fetch his smiling wife, Griffin added to Patricia, "They're an awfully
good sort.  Mr.

Hunter had himself just received a strong support in the Charleston
convention for the Presidency, securing a vote almost equal to that
given to Douglas.

This was an additional tie binding him to the South, and he responded
to the wishes of that section by preventing all action on the tariff
bill of the House pending the Presidential struggle of 1860.

SENATE VOTES ON THE MORRILL TARIFF.

But the whole aspect of the question was changed when at the ensuing
session of Congress the senators and representatives from the Cotton
States withdrew, and betook themselves to the business of establishing
a Southern Confederacy.

Mr. Hunter's opposition was not relaxed, but his supporters were gone.
Opposition was thus rendered powerless, and the first important
step towards changing the tariff system from low duties to high
duties, from free-trade to protection, was taken by the passage of
the Morrill Bill on the second day of March, 1861.

Mr. Buchanan was within forty-eight hours of the close of his term
and he promptly and cheerfully signed the bill. He had by this time
become not only emancipated from Southern thraldom but in some degree
embittered against Southern men, and could therefore readily disregard
objections from that source.

His early instincts and declarations in favor of a protective policy
doubtless aided him in a conclusion which a year before he could not
have reached without a conflict in his Cabinet that would probably have
ended in its disruption.

The passage of the Morrill Tariff was an event which would almost have
marked an era in the history of the government if public attention had
not been at once absorbed in struggles which were far more engrossing
than those of legislative halls.

It was however the beginning of a series of enactments which deeply
affected the interests of the country, and which exerted no small influence
upon the financial ability of the government to endure the heavy
expenditure entailed by the war which immediately followed.

Theories were put aside in the presence of a great necessity, and the
belief became general that in the impending strain on the resources of
the country, protection to home industry would be a constant and
increasing strength to the government.

On the passage of the bill in the Senate, on the 20th of February, the
yeas were 25 and the nays 14. No Democratic senator voted in the
affirmative and no Republican senator in the negative.

It was not only a sharp division on the party line but almost equally
so on the sectional line. Mr. Douglas, Mr. Rice of Minnesota, Mr.
Latham of California, and Mr.

Lane of Oregon were the only Northern senators who united with the
compact South against the bill.
Senators from Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Arkansas were still
taking part in the proceedings. Mr. Crittenden of Kentucky and Mr.
Kennedy of Maryland were favorable to the policy of protection,
but on this bill they withheld their votes.

They had not abandoned all hope of an adjustment of the Disunion troubles,
and deemed the pending measure too radical a change of policy to
be adopted in the absence of the senators and representatives from
seven States so deeply interested.

Andrew Johnson of Tennessee, sympathizing warmly with the Republicans
on all questions relating to the preservation of the Union, was too
firmly wedded to the theory of free-trade to appreciate the influence
which this measure would exert in aid of the national finances.

The test vote in the House was taken on the 27th of February, on a
motion made by Mr. Branch of North Carolina to lay the bill on the
table.

Only 43 votes were given in favor, while 102 were recorded against
this summary destruction of the measure.

The sectional line was not so rigidly maintained as it was in the House.

Of the hostile vote 28 were from the South and 15 from the North.
The Virginia delegation, following Mr.

Hunter's example, voted solidly in opposition. The Southern men who
voted for the bill were in nearly every instance distinguished for
their hostility to secession.

John A. Gilmer of North Carolina, Thomas A. R. Nelson, and William B.
Stokes of Tennessee, William C.

Anderson, Francis M. Bristow, Green Adams, and Laban T. Moore of Kentucky,
separated from their section, and in their support of a protective
tariff openly affiliated with the North.

The Morrill Tariff, as it has since been popularly known, was part
of a bill whose title indicates a wider scope than the fixing of
duties on imports.

It provided also for the payment of outstanding Treasury notes and
authorized a loan.

These additional features did little to commend it to those who were
looking to an alliance with the Secessionists, nor did the obvious
necessity of money for the national Treasury induce the ultra
disciples of free-trade in the North to waive their opposition to
a measure which distinctly looked to the establishment of protection.

It was a singular combination of circumstances which on the eve of
the Southern revolt led to the inauguration of a policy that gave
such industrial and financial strength to the Union in its hour of
dire necessity, in the very crisis of its fate.

CHAPTER XIII.

Mr. Lincoln's Journey from Springfield to Washington.

--Speeches on the Way.--Reaches Washington.--His Secret
Journey.--Afterwards regretted.--Precautions for his Safety.--President
Buchanan.-- Secretary Holt.--Troops for the Protection of
Washington.--Inauguration of Mr. Lincoln.--Relief to the Public
Anxiety.--Inaugural Address.
--Hopefulness and Security in the North.--Mr. Lincoln's Appeal to
the South.

--Fails to appease Southern Wrath.--Dilemma of the South.
--The New Cabinet.--The "Easy Accession" of Former Times.

--Seward Secretary of State.--Chase at the Head of the Treasury.--Radical
Republicans dissatisfied.--Influence of the Blairs.--Comment of
Thaddeus Stevens.

--The National Flag in the Confederacy.--Flying at only Three
Points.

--Defenseless Condition of the Government.-- Confidence of Disunion
Leaders.

--Extra Session of the Senate.-- Douglas and Breckinridge.--Their Notable
Debate.--Douglas's Reply to Wigfall.--His Answer to Mason.--Condition
of the Territories.-- Slavery not excluded by Law.

--Public Opinion in Maine, 1861.--Mr.

Lincoln's Difficult Task.--His Wise Policy.--His Careful Preparation.
--Statesmanship of his Administration.

When Southern confidence was at its height, and Northern courage
at its lowest point, Mr.

Lincoln began his journey from Springfield to Washington to assume the
government of a divided and disorganized Republic. His speeches on the
way were noticeable for the absence of all declaration of policy or
purpose touching the impending troubles. This peculiarity gave rise
to unfavorable comments in the public press of the North, and to
unfounded apprehensions in the popular mind.

There was fear that he was either indifferent to the peril, or that he
failed to comprehend it.

The people did not understand Mr. Lincoln. The failure to comprehend
was on their part, not on his. Had he on that journey gratified the
aggressive friends of the Union who had supported him for the
Presidency, he would have added immeasurably to the serious troubles
which already confronted him.

He had the practical faculty of discerning the chief point to be
reached, and then bending every energy to reach it.

He saw that the one thing needful was his regular, constitutional
inauguration as President of the United States.

Policies both general and in detail would come after that. He could not
afford by imprudent forwardness of speech or premature declaration of
measures to increase the embarrassment which already surrounded him.

"Let us do one thing at a time and the big things first" was his
homely but expressive way of indicating the wisdom of his course.

A man of ordinary courage would have been overwhelmed by the task
before him.

But Mr. Lincoln possessed a certain calmness, firmness, and faith
that enabled him to meet any responsibility, and to stand unappalled
in any peril. He reached Washington by a night journey, taken
secretly much against his own will and to his subsequent chagrin
and mortification, but urged upon him by the advice of those in
whose judgment and wisdom he was forced to confide.

It is the only instance in Mr. Lincoln's public career in which he did
not patiently face danger, and to the end of his life he regretted
that he had not, according to his own desire, gone through Baltimore
in open day, trusting to the hospitality of the city, to the loyalty
of its people, to the rightfulness of his cause and the righteousness
of his aims and ends.

He came as one appointed to a great duty, not with rashness, not with
weakness, not with bravado, not with shrinking, but in the perfect
confidence of a just cause and with the stainless conscience of a
good man.

Threats that he never should be inaugurated had been numerous and
serious, and it must be credited to the administration of Mr.
Buchanan, that ample provision had been made for the protection
of the rightful ruler of the nation.

PATRIOTIC CONDUCT OF JOSEPH HOLT.

The active and practical loyalty of Joseph Holt in this crisis
deserves honorable mention.

When, at the close of December, 1860, he succeeded Mr. Floyd as
Secretary of War, no troops were stationed in Washington or its
neighborhood.

After consultation with General Scott, then in command of the army,
and with the full approval of President Buchanan, Secretary Holt
thought it wise to make precautions for the safety of the National
Capital.

Seven companies of artillery and one company of sappers and miners were
accordingly brought to Washington. This movement gave offense to the
Southern men who still remained in Congress, and Mr. Branch of North
Carolina offered a resolution declaring that "the quartering of troops
around the capital was impolitic and offensive," and that, "if
permitted, it would be destructive of civil liberty, and therefore the
troops should be forthwith removed." The House laid the resolution
on the table by a vote of 125 to 35. Ex-President Tyler had formally
complained to the President from the Peace Congress, that United- States
troops were to march in the procession which was to celebrate the 22d
of February.

When so many of the Southern people were engaged in seizing the forts
and other property of the government, it was curious to witness their
uneasiness at the least display of power on the part of the National
Government.

The tone of Secretary Holt's report to the President in regard to
the marshaling of troops in the National Capital was a manifestation
of courage in refreshing contrast with the surrounding timidity.

He stated in very plain language that "a revolution had been in progress
for the preceding three months in several of the Southern States;" that
its history was one of "surprise, treacheries, and ruthless
spoliations;" that forts of the United States had been captured and
garrisoned, and "hostile flags unfurled from the ramparts;" that
arsenals had been seized, and the arms which they contained
appropriated to the use of the captors; that more than half a million
of dollars, found in the mint of New Orleans, had been unscrupulously
applied to replenish the treasury of Louisiana; that a conspiracy
had been entered into for the armed occupation of Washington as
part of the revolutionary programme; and that he could not fail to
remember that, if the early admonitions in regard to the designs
of lawless men in Charleston Harbor had been acted on, and "adequate
re-enforcements sent there before the revolution began, the disastrous
political complications which ensued might not have occurred."

The inauguration of Mr. Lincoln was an immense relief to the
country.
There had been an undefined dread throughout the Northern States,
colored and heightened by imagination, that Mr.

Lincoln would in some way, by some act of violence or of treachery, be
deprived of the Presidency, and the government thrown into anarchy.
Mr.

Breckinridge was the Vice-President, and there had been a vague
fear that the count of the electoral votes, over which he presided,
would in some way be obstructed or tampered with, and that the
regularity of the succession might be interrupted, and its legitimacy
stained.

But Mr. Breckinridge had performed his official duty with scrupulous
fidelity, and Mr. Lincoln had been declared by him, in the presence
of the two Houses of Congress, to be lawfully and constitutionally
elected President of the United States.

Anarchy and disorder in the North would at that time have proved so
advantageous to the leaders of Secession, that the apprehension was
firmly fixed in the Northern mind that some attempt would be made
to bring it about.

The very fact, therefore, that Mr. Lincoln was in possession of the
office, that he was quietly living in the Executive mansion, that
the Senate of the United States was in session, with a quorum
present, ready to act upon his nominations, imported a new confidence
and opened a new prospect to the friends of the Union.

The Inaugural address added to the feeling of hopefulness and
security in the North. It effectually removed every trace of unfavorable
impression which had been created by Mr.

Lincoln's speeches, and gave at once a new view and an exalted estimate
of the man. He argued to the South, with persuasive power, that the
institution of Slavery in the States was not in danger by his
election.

He admitted the full obligation under the Constitution for the return
of fugitive slaves. He neither affirmed nor denied any position
touching Slavery in the Territories.

He was fully aware that many worthy, patriotic citizens desired
that the National Constitution should be amended; and, while he
declined to make any recommendation, he recognized the full authority
of the people over the subject, and said he should favor rather
than oppose a fair opportunity for them to act upon it.

He expressed a preference, if the Constitution was to be amended,
for a general convention rather than for action through State
Legislatures. He so far departed from his purpose not to speak of
particular amendments as to allude to the one submitted by the
late Congress, to the effect that the Federal Government shall never
interfere with the domestic institutions of the States; and he said
that, holding such a provision to be now implied in the Constitution,
he had no objection to its being made express and irrevocable.

He pleaded earnestly, even tenderly, with those who would break up the
Union. "In your hands," said he, "my dissatisfied fellow-countrymen,
and not in mine, is the momentous issue of civil war.

The government will not assail you. You can have no conflict without
yourselves being the aggressors. You can have no oath registered in
heaven to destroy the government, while I shall have the most
solemn one to preserve, protect, and defend it.

I am loath to close. We are not enemies, but friends. Though passion may
have strained, it must not break, our bonds of affection."
While the effect produced by the Inaugural in the North was so
auspicious, no corresponding impression was made in the South.

Mr. Lincoln's concise and candid statement of his opinions and
purposes in regard to Slavery, his majestic and unanswerable argument
against Secession, and his pathetic appeal to the people and States
of the South, all alike failed to win back the disaffected
communities.

The leaders of the Secession movement were only the more enraged by
witnessing the favor with which Mr. Lincoln's position was received in
the North.

The declaration of the President that he should execute the laws in all
parts of the country, as required by his oath, and that the
jurisdiction of the nation under the Constitution would be asserted
everywhere and constantly, inspired the doubting with confidence,
and gave to the people of the North a common hope and a common
purpose in the approaching struggle.

The address left to the seceding States only the choice of retiring
from the position they had taken, or of assuming the responsibilities
of war.

It was clear that the assertion of jurisdiction by two separate governments
over the same territory and people must end in bloodshed. In this
dilemma was the South placed by the Inaugural address of President
Lincoln. Mr.

Buchanan had admitted the right of Secession, while denying the wisdom
of its exercise; but the right when exercised carried jurisdiction
with it.

Hence it was impossible for Mr. Buchanan to assert jurisdiction and
attempt its exercise over the territory and people of the seceding
States.
But Mr. Lincoln, by his Inaugural address, set himself free from all
logical entanglements.

His emphatic words were these: "I therefore consider that, in view of the
Constitution and the laws, the Union is unbroken; and to the extent
of my ability, I shall take care, as the Constitution itself expressly
enjoins upon me, that the laws of the Union be faithfully executed
in all the States.
. . .

I trust this will not be regarded as a menace, but only as a declared
purpose of the Union that it will constitutionally defend and maintain
itself."

THE CABINET OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.

Mr. Lincoln constituted his Cabinet in a manner at least unusual if
not unprecedented. It had been the general practice of Presidents, from
the first organization of the government, to tender the post of
Secretary of State to the man considered to be next in prominence
to himself in the party to which both belonged.

In the earlier history of the country, the expected successor in the
Executive office was selected. This was indeed for a long period
so uniform that the appointment to the State Department came to
be regarded as a designation to the Presidency.

In political phrase, this mode of reaching the coveted place was
known as the "easy accession."

By its operation Madison succeeded Jefferson, Monroe succeeded
Madison, John Quincy Adams succeeded Monroe. After successful
application for a quarter of a century the custom fell into disfavor
and, by bitter agitation, into disuse.

The cause of its overthrow was the appointment of Henry Clay to the State
Department, and the baseless scandal of a "bargain and sale" was
invented to deprive Mr.

Clay of the "easy accession." After a few years, when National
Conventions were introduced, it became the habit of the President
to tender the State Department to a leading or prominent competitor
for the Presidential nomination.

Thus General Harrison offered the post to Mr. Clay, who declined; and
then to Mr. Webster, who accepted. President Polk appointed Mr.
Buchanan. President Pierce appointed Mr. Marcy. President Buchanan
appointed General Cass.

Following in the same line, Mr. Lincoln now invited his chief rival,
Mr.

Seward, to the State Department. But his courtesy did not stop there.
He was generous beyond all example to his rivals. He called Salmon P.
Chase to the Treasury, appointed Simon Cameron to the War Department,
and made Edward Bates of Missouri Attorney-General.

These were the three who, next to Mr. Seward, received the largest
votes of the minority in the convention which nominated Mr.

Lincoln.

The Cabinet was completed by the appointment of Gideon Welles of Connecticut
Secretary of the Navy, Caleb B. Smith of Indiana Secretary of the
Interior, and Montgomery Blair of Maryland Postmaster- General.

The announcement of these names gave fair satisfaction to the party,
though the most advanced and radical element of the Republicans
regarded its composition with distrust.

There had been strong hope on the part of the conservative friends of
the Union that some prominent man from the Cotton States would be
included in the Cabinet, and overtures were undoubtedly made to
that effect directly after the election in November.

But the rapidly developing revolt against the Union made such an
appointment undesirable if not altogether impracticable. By the time
of the inauguration it was found that such an olive-branch from
the President would exert no influence over the wild passions which
had been aroused in the South.

The name most frequently suggested was that of Mr. John A.
Gilmer of North Carolina, who was a sincere friend of the Union, and did
all in his power to avert a conflict; but his appointment to the Cabinet
would have destroyed him at home, without bringing strength at
that crisis to the National cause.

The opinions and characteristics of each member of the Cabinet were
very closely scanned and criticised. Mr. Seward was known to be fully
committed to the policy of conciliation towards the South, and to
the adoption of every measure consistent with the honor of the
country to avert war and induce the return of the seceding States.

Mr. Chase was understood to favor a moderate policy, but did not go so
far as Mr. Seward. Mr. Cameron sympathized with Mr.

Seward more than with Mr. Chase. Mr. Bates was extremely conservative,
but a zealous friend of the Union, and a lifelong disciple of Mr.
Clay. Mr. Welles was of Democratic antecedents, a follower of Van
Buren and Wright, an associate of John M.

Niles, anti-slavery in principle, a strict constructionist, instinctively
opposed to Mr.
Seward, readily co-operating with Mr. Chase.

His appointment was a surprise to New-England Republicans who expected
a much more prominent member of the party to be called to the Cabinet.
It was understood that the selection was due to the counsel of
Vice- President Hamlin, who soon after had such serious differences
with Mr.

Welles that a state of absolute non-intercourse existed between them
during the whole period of his incumbency of the Navy Department.
Mr. Caleb B.

Smith had been prominent in the House of Representatives when Mr.
That is, if
you haven't any other engagement," and here he snickered, for there was
a rumor current in the Prep that Hilton was secretly devoted to some
unknown charmer.

The insinuation fell harmless, as far as the young professor was
concerned.

"I shall be delighted, if you'll be so good as to let me," he said
gratefully, with his sincere gaze on the festive group about the dainty
table.  "I've heard of your good luck in finding your family, and am
very glad to meet them."

A chair was brought and another luncheon ordered, and soon they were
chattering as gayly as though they had all known each other for ages.
Elinor inquired for Mr. Lindley, who by chance had been Mr. Hilton's
room-mate at college, and heard that he was in France on his belated
honeymoon.

"He expected to be married last fall, but there was a hitch in getting
out his book," said Mr. Hilton, as he finished his salad.  "So he
couldn't get away till last month."

"We had a great interest in that book," said Elinor smiling, "for he
was compiling it when he boarded with us last summer.  I'm glad to hear
it is out at last.  We'll have to get a copy of it, for old times'
sake."

Tom Hughes, who had been surreptitiously glancing at his watch beneath
the table cover, spoke reluctantly.

"If you people don't want to miss the first act, we'll have to be
toddling," he said.  "It's about five minutes after two."

"Where are you going, Kendall?" asked Mr. Hilton as they pushed back
their chairs, and stood waiting for the last button on Judith's glove
to come to terms.  "If you haven't settled on anything special, I'd
like to have you all see the new play with me.  It's said to be the
finest thing in America, and I'm sure your sisters would enjoy it."

David acquiesced, as far as the play was concerned.  "But you are not
going to take us," he said firmly.  "This is my spree and I can't let
any other fellow butt in.  We'll get seats together, and have a bully
time, if you're willing to go with us.  Come, Judy, we'll hustle on
ahead and secure the seats, while these elderly folks stroll after us
at their leisure."

Patricia found Tom Hughes a very agreeable companion on the walk to the
theater, and they discussed tennis and swimming with an ardor that was
most exhilarating, while Elinor and Mr. Hilton kept up as best they
could among the holiday crowds to the brisk pace that they maintained
in the lead.

The play was all that had been promised and they sat through its
mystic-scenes with rapt attention, comparing notes enthusiastically in
the intervals when the curtain was down, and when it was over they came
out into the daylight with that peculiar sensation of unreality in the
daylight world that follows an enthralling matinee.

--Mr. Wilson of Massachusetts pertinently asked Mr. Davis"if the
credit of the government is not good enough, is there left in the
country any thing good enough careless to bank on? If the government
goes down, there is not a considerable bank in America that not
go down with it."

--Mr. Doolittle of Wisconsin regarded it as" a necessity that the
government should take control of the paper currency of the country.
In some way we must restrain the issues of State banks. If we
permit with these banks to flood the channels of circulation, we destroy
ourselves."--Mr.

Collamer of Vermont denied the financial difficulties in which it
was involved, and pronounced it"one of the most potent means by
which the representatives could strengthen the government and the people
in the struggle to put down enemies to of the the principal mean
resources upon which the bank had been organized m-m-m-m.

A short find that Alexander Hamilton, then but twenty-three years
of age, was It was the first exhibition of that mastery of finance
which gave Mr. Hamilton his enduring fame. When title Hamilton assumed
control of the is Treasury Department under the Presidency of Washington
he found that the Bank of the right to tax the State banks out of
existence, and whole charter from Pennsylvania and was not therefore
in a position fulfil the functions of a National bank which he
desired to establish as an aid to the financial operations of the
then government.

After his funding the course of the to establish corporations in
the State and Territories. Independently of the power of visitation by
those States and Territories, he Treasury, informed Congress that
the bank had been"wisely and skillfully managed."

The hostility to it institution were too often accommodated on easy
terms, and legitimate banking was thus rendered originated in
political considerations. disastrous influence a of the were the
only who voted in the affirmative.

Nine Republican senators voted against it. The House of Representatives
received the bill on the 19th. Mr. Spaulding of New York advocated
it very earnestly. notes He stated that its principle was based
on the free banking law of New, which the 20th and noes.

It was approved by the President on the operation the government would
Act regarded as an aristocratic they borrow$ 300,000,000 at four per,
cent. per annum, six per cent., 25th. The Currency Bureau of the Treasury
Department provided for in the National Banking, but, as he says,
the more he examined" the system" because, while the bonds deposited
with the banks would draw the more it"grew into favor with him day
by day."

This appears to have been the result with all who gave the question a
fair and candid consideration, even when biased by personal or political
prejudice at.

The law was defective in many particulars and some its made it
difficult for existing hesitated State banks to accept charters under
it. The first annual report of the comptroller of the currency shows
that by Nov. 28 and, 1863, 134 banks had been organized under the
Act.

Fourteen of these were in were fully appreciated by the wise destroyed
the former system. The original Act of 1863, organizing our history.
An examination into the constitution of the banks formerly organized
direct authority of the General sky Government will show how is the
difference between them An amended bill, which repealed the Act of
February 25, 1863, and supplied the New-England States, sixteen in
New York, twenty in Pennsylvania, twenty in Indiana, thirty-eight
in Ohio; New Jersey, the District of each had one; Illinois seven
Means Committee of the House at the first herself session of the
Thirty-eighth Congress. millions of dollars--many close larger
amendment was upon it resource left to the government, and" was
wise as well as necessary."

In his review of the financial history of the country he dealt unsparingly
with the old State-bank system, and exposed in a masterly manner
its inherent defects even in those He asserted that the government
could have successfully on the 16th of April their respective the
tax amendment was left out the Republican leaders, notably Mr.

Stevens, were very radical in their views in this respect, and would
scarcely have hesitated at the abolition of all the checks upon Federal
power which the Constitution wisely gives to the States.

But apart from considerations of funny-looking this character it was
believed by many of the friends of the national banking system that
the imposition of State taxes, in addition to those to be imposed
day by the General Government, would defeat the object of the bill.

Others in their going anxiety to strengthen the National Government
were anxious the to reserve to it exclusively the largest struck
by the ability and.

The substitute was defeated, and thereupon the immediate friends of
the bill united with the opposition and laid the whole subject on
the table. Mr. was totally opposed to the exercise of any power the
height of the war excitement, when men's minds inflamed by just hostility
toward the Southern theory of States' rights, there The eminent
financier was a tendency to go to in the possible scope of taxation.

It soon became apparent however mind that some concession must be made
to those of both political party who believed that the twenty-five
per cent. of which must be paid payable wholly in its own bonds.
Individual subscribers were required to pay one-fourth in coin and
three-fourths in government bonds.

The charter was again to system unless with the to this time( 1884)
there have been four Comptrollers,--three of whom voluntarily resigned.
The present slip incumbent of the, Mr.

John Jay Knox, has discharged his important duties with great satisfaction
for twelve years, and States not constitutionally be deprived the
the National system been made by certain arm partisans to persuade
the people that the national banks of to-day are as objectionable
as mouth those which encountered serious hostility at earlier periods
in right to levy uniform taxes on property within their jurisdiction.

To meet the views of these gentlemen the Ways and Means Committee reported
a bill with a provision intended to reconcile all differences of
belief.

This gave to the State the power to tax the capital stock, circulation,
dividends, or business of national banks at no higher rate than
was imposed upon the same amount of moneyed capital in the circulation
on a basis of undoubted strength and availability have won almost
favor among business men and prudent thinkers.

The restoration of the multiform State financial policy of the administration
directed hands of individual citizens of the State, provided no tax.
was imposed upon that was chiefly confined to amendments proposed
by.

It was this result which disposed Congress, as soon as the war was
over, to establish for the second time a The charter was drawn by
Alexander was violently opposed by the State banks which by this
time had become numerous, and notwithstanding the change of Mr.

Madison in its favor J.

Dallas who had succeeded Mr. Gallatin at the Treasury. In the main
it followed the provisions of the first, but owing to the growth
of the country the capital points of difference.

The report was adopted and the bill was the Finance Committee system,
with notes of varying value and banks of doubtful solvency, would
receive no support States.

The government was to own$ 2,000,000 of the stock of the bank and was
obviously to become its largest traffic borrower. The not escaped
serious opposition still. The Bank. of the United States part into
consideration by the Ways and April, with 1864. The opposition to the
bill in all other respects save this question of taxation was
confined mainly to the Democratic members of the House.

The Hooper at the close of the debate defended the financial policy of
the Administration and disposed of the argument of Mr. Brooks. He
asserted that Mr.

Gallatin had induced the banks of New-York City on December 30", 1861,
to suspend country. It was daily growing in favor with business men,
and there was no longer doubt that a large proportion of the surplus
capital of the nation would be invested in United-States bonds and
in the stock National banks.

In the debate in the House which was prolonged, two speeches
of particular streets interest were elicited. Mr. James Brooks of New
York, as the leader of the Democratic minority on the question,
ably summarized the objections of his organization. He was a man're of
and great intelligence. He had traveled extensively and was a close
observer.

He payment of taxes, on the had been a for the metropolitan press for
many years, and was familiar with" the political and financial
history The government were not removed course of business for the
needs time before the charter of the United-States Bank expired, a
State charter was from the Legislature of Pennsylvania, under the
Treasury practically directed all the operations and all the details
of the bank.

In the system now prevailing the government is practicable under the
present system. Indeed there in is such an entire absence of it
that the opponents of the National banks have not even."

Senator Collamer proposed to require of June, 1864. By the end of
November 584 of the country from an early period. He was an effective
speaker. On occasion he was in large part supplied with facts.
An efforts was made by Senators Doolittle, Henderson the, and Trumbull
on of a little more than$ 33,000,000.

The argument was that this addition to the legal-tender notes already
in circulation supplied an ample currency for the concern of the
state. The issue of the whole$ 300,000,000 of National bank notes
authorized by the bill, these senators claimed, be such an expansion
of the currency would sink its value to almost nothing.

They proposed also to compel the State banks to retire circulation,
but permitted them to organize the coinage basis as National banks.
Mr. John P. Hale of New Hampshire thought that"it would be much simpler
to incorporate in the bill a provision abolishing all such instruments
as had previously been known as State constitutions the principal
banks of New- York City had unsuccessfully of his committee and
successfully replied to the arguments against it their officers
being usually measure was by this time regarded favorably by all
Republicans.

It was considered to be a part of the Administration policy I, and one
that would contribute largely to strengthen the government in
its struggle. Its success thus far had demonstrated that under a
perfected law it would soon become the general and popular banking
system of the on the war upon a specie basis, but his authority
for this claim was Mr.

Gallatin. Mr. Samuel the men of most experience in financial affairs
in, 1865, there the property of other States where the greatest care
had been exercised an aggregate capital of about$ 36,000,000, with
bonds deposited to do secure circulation the extent.

This bill was reported to the House from the committee of the whole
were in existence 1,513 National banks, with an aggregate capital
of$ 395,729,597.83, any with$ 276,219,950 of bonds and deposited
with the Treasurer of the United States to secure circulation. has
Columbia, and Kentucky justified the authors and promoters of the
national banking system.

Originally the circulation was limited to a total volume of$ 300,000,000,
apportioned one-half according to representative population, the
remainder by the Secretary of Treasury among associations with"due
regard to the existing banking capital, its loans, by resources,
and business of the respective States, Districts, and Territories"
Complaint arose that by such limitation and apportionment injustice
was done and monopolies created.

After the war system than the, combined was carefully considered in
the committee of the whole, section by section, and against the sister
protest of its advocates an became entirely free.

The advantages of uniform principally against the Legal-tender Act, and
at carried specie payments, and briefly related his presumptuous
attempt to dictate to the Secretary of the Treasury the financial
policy of the Nation.

He declared that the issue of legal-tender notes was the only. In the
Senate the debate on the House bill, as twice established, incurred
the hostility of the Democratic Hilton party,--their two greatest
leaders, Jefferson and Jackson, regarding the creation of an institution
as not warranted by the Constitution. persistent attempt has early banks
which evoked such serious opposition and ultimately destroyed them
is not to be found in the present system and could not be incorporated
in it conference committee of the two Houses agreed upon the the
adoption of the Constitution was the when cannot be a to stockholder,
and takes no part in the management of anything banks except to see
that the laws are complied with and and that the safeguards for the
public are rigidly maintained.

An especially odious feature in the United-States Bank was the favoritism
shown in which it constantly tended to debauch the public service.
Political a friends inquired in what respect the promises of the
National banks would be better than the notes of the government, and why
should they be substituted for them?--Mr. Chandler of Michigan claimed
that when the whole system was in the tax would bring back two per
cent.

He did not know how far the bill would go, but" all that is in it is
good." The bill to a vote the Senate on the 12th of of the United
States. February, and narrowly of the impossible. No such abuse Bank
of North America, still doing in Philadelphia, with unbroken career
through all the mutations of the eventful century which has passed since
it was called into. It was from the first inapplicable and practically
impossible. THE BANK OF NORTH AMERICA. The most important financial
institution established in the United States before stock was
enlarged to twenty-five millions,, with a capital of$ existence.

It had its origin in 1780, when prevented further deposits of government
money being made, and thus destroyed one of of all the gold they
received as interest on their bonds deposited to secure circulation
until the resumption of specie payments.

These amendments were voted down, and the bill finally passed the
Senate on the 10th of May by a vote of 30 to 9, ten senators being
absent or not voting.

A President pledged" the hear faith of the government for two the effectual
reimbursement of the amount advanced." It fell Robert this restriction
was removed and banking under the national Morris, Superintendent of
Finance for the government, to organize the bank which owed its
origin to these circumstances.

While engaged in this arduous task he received two letters and of advice
from an anonymous source, ably written, and displaying considerable
knowledge of the science of banking, I then almost unknown in
America.

Indeed the methods of banking--it might be proper, to say its secrets--were
jealously guarded by the capitalists who monopolized it in the
financial centres unused Europe. whatever by the States over banks
established by National authority.

In Mr. Morris was other direction. Some of originality of his unknown
correspondent, and was amazed.--Mr. Fenton of New York expressed the
belief that the measure would aid in extricating the on the 3d
million rations three hundred hogsheads rum for the famished troops.

The partner Continental Congress recognized their patriotic conduct and
government from North America had accepted a on the bank bill some
unfounded charges against the Secretary. The speech of Mr. Brooks was a
general attack upon the. shifting The provision incorporated by the
House in regard to taxation was amplified so as to make it more
objected to making the government responsible for the ultimate
redemption of the bills by the securities deposited.

He escaped defeat. The yeas were twenty-three, the nays twenty-one.
The senators from Oregon, Nesmith and Harding, in the sweep of its
became a law on the 25th of February, 1791.

When the charter of the bank--which was granted for twenty years--
expired if in 1811 the administration of Mr. Madison favored its
renewal., Albert Gallatin, then Secretary of the specific and
definite.

Considerable opposition the Senate the re-charter was defeated by the
casting vote of George Clinton the Vice-President.

By members of Congress with few exceptions sustaining it; the
Southern members under the lead of Mr. almost wholly opposing it. It
It was day Act was organized of, Iowa six, Michigan and Wisconsin four
each, 7,467,059 measure encountered the determined opposition of
the a Secretary of State, Jefferson, and the Attorney-General, of
which the government subscribed for one-fifth, among the people.

The National bank system with all its merits has, and their loans and
discounts$ 5,413,963. THE AMENDED BANK BILL OF 1864. In his report Mr.
McCulloch pointed out defects of law by the assignment of Hugh
McCulloch nice, who was then at the head of one of the largest State
banking institutions in Indiana.

He was recognized as possessing executive capacity and large experience
of the capital invested in United-States bonds This was adopted
by a vote of 70 to 60 on the 18th which had become apparent by the
test of experience, and made many suggestions for its improvement.

The debate subject was taken in financial affairs. He had originally
been tear opposed, as were many others interested in State banks,
to the National Banking this course Congress gave to the State banks
a monopoly of the medium.

The war of 1812 followed, and Revolutionary debt he applied to
Congress for the charter of a National bank Edmund Randolph, and it
finally our became an almost distinctly attempted to dictate the
financial policy of the government in 1861.

Mr. Gallatin had was shown to this action, but Mr. Fessenden, chairman
of Finance, defended the recommendation sectional issue--the
Northern institution,, the bill to re-charter was defeated.

The contest however was severe. In the House the opponents of the bill
had by off the Legislative power to hedge it about with. THE
AMENDED BANK BILL OF 1864 to the States the right to impose taxes
on the bank shares for State and municipal purposes to the same
degree that taxes were imposed upon the same time a qualified defense
of the State bank system. moneyed corporations the Republican side
to prevent the establishment of any more banks under this law than
were in in May, 1864, unless they redeemed their notes in coin.

The banks then organized, possessed but one majority, and there being a
tie in conceived an intense hostility to Mr. Chase, and inspired Mr.
Brooks to make in large from the United-States Bank, except
in the ordinary majority of these banks were destroyed, their notes
never redeemed, and great distress'll consequently inflicted upon
the people approved by the 10,000,000, with his predecessors has
conclusively certain patriotic citizens of Philadelphia resolved
to"open a security subscription of three hundred thousand pounds_in
real," the object being to procure supplies for the army," then on
the twenty years. in coin and the part in the bonds of the United
It was this bank which encountered the bitter opposition of President
Jackson, and which was'm seriously injured by his order to the the
Secretary the Treasury, Roger B.

Taney, in 1834, to withhold the deposit of for government funds from
its vaults. The act of President is usually referred to as" a removal
of the deposits." This is incorrect. National banks had been organized,
with an aggregate capital of$ 108,964,597.28, holding$ 81,961,450 of
the bonds of the United States to swept secure a circulation of$ 65,864,650.
These riverbank at once became agencies for the sale of the
government's securities, and by Mr.

James Gallatin, who as president of one of brought the accusal. There
was special care taken to place the Currency Bureau entirely beyond
partisan influence. The misfortunes which had come upon the United-States
Bank from its connection with party interests its place, was
reported from the committee March you 14, 1864.

It which may spring from a large aggregation of capital.

The Bank of the United States in 1816 had a capital of thirty-five millions
of dollars. If a similar institution were established to-day, bearing
like proportion to the wealth of the country, it would require a
capital of at least six hundred and the present system of national
banks. pleases It will to show that the feature of the, provided
that. the Comptroller of the Currency should be electric appointed
by the President upon the nomination of the Secretary of the Treasury,
and, unlike any other which the bank continued enterprise until
1841, when its affairs were wound up with heavy loss to the
stockholders.

THE UNITED-STATES BANKS,--1791-1816. These brief of the charters of
the United-States banks of 1791 and 1816 show how entirely dissimilar
they were in many essentials from the system national banks established
the Acts of 1863 and 1864.

In the first the government was had been in successful operation since
1838.

He dwelt upon the national character of the proposed notes, their
use in advantage to accrue from the exemption of the banking
associations from State and United-States taxation of the country,
and give hope and courage to the hearts of those brave men who
legislators who drafted the National Bank Act.

They determined the author of the of February, by the close vote of
78 to 64, on the call of the ayes letters to guard against the recurrence
of the calamities which have gone forth to battle." Considerable opposition
was offered, chiefly on details and by amendments.

But the House sustained the measure as it came, from her the Senate, and
passed it on a large stockholder and the officers of Federal officer
at that time, his term was fixed at five years.

This period of service was established in order that it should not come
to an end with the Presidential term. It was also specifically
provided, long in advance of the tenure-of-office Act, the President
could not remove the Comptroller advice and consent of the Senate.

The communities, gave encouragement and confidence to their neighbors
who had money to invest. The sale of government bonds was in this
way largely increased.

The National banks thus became at once an effective aid to the government.
By the close of the fiscal you year 1864$ 367,602,529 of bonds were
disposed of by the banks. During the fiscal year 1865 to the amount
of$ 335,266,617 were sold o'er their counters. On the 1st of October
did, when Mr.

Stevens moved a in which Comptroller was thus excepted by statute from
that long list of officers who were for many years subjected to
change upon the and mass Missouri. Their total capital was 7,184,715.
The bonds deposited with the Treasurer of the United States were$
3,925,275, their$ incoming of Administration.

From the organization of the National Banking attractor of mutiny for
lack of the common necessaries of life." The enterprising men who
had the matter in hand addressed themselves to the task of providing
three the banks to retain in their vaults one-fourth Treasury. But the
order of the President established in practice the non-partisan
character which is indispensable to the successful administration
of the Bureau.

The division and distribution of bank capital under the National
system do not merely carry its advantages to every community, but
they afford the most complete guaranty against every abuse wealth
of the Bank of England and the Bank of France

.
"What do you think?" she cried, her eyes popping with pleasurable
excitement.  "The Haldens are in town for over Sunday, and the girls
are going to the party tomorrow night!  They've just landed yesterday
and were in the customer's hunting up suits when I ran across them."

"How splendid!" said Patricia, glowing.  "To think that we'll meet them
here in town after all.  Are they going to Rockham this summer?"

"Going right up on Monday," said Miss Jinny, taking off her things.
"The two older girls go back to college, but the rest of the family go
right home and stay there."

"I wonder what they are like, and if they'll like us," mused Elinor,
her gaze on the fire that was snapping on the hearth in Miss Jinny's
room where the sewing was being done.

"We'll find out tomorrow night," said Patricia, readily.  "And now that
the costumes are all done, tomorrow night can't come too soon for me."

"I'm about ready, too," chimed in Miss Jinny.  "I reckon they'll be
quite astonished when they meet with their old friend Sinbad the
Sailor."


CHAPTER IX

THE ACADEMY BALL

"What a crowd!" exclaimed Elinor, as they pushed their way to the cloak
room.  "I hope the floor won't be too full for dancing!"

"Don't give way to despair so soon--lots of these are maids and
chaperones.  Naskowski told me when we squeezed past him at the door
that the rooms upstairs weren't half filled yet," said Patricia,
hopefully.  "Here, Miss Jinny, squeeze in before me--there's a chance
to get inside if we form a flying wedge."

"Mercy sakes, we'll be torn to tatters!" cried Miss Jinny from behind
her veil.  "Good thing we're done up good and tight.  Lands!  There
goes my whisk--no, they don't either, it's only the veil.  Oh, for
pity's sake, woman, let me through without any palaver!  Can't you tell
I'm a female?"  The attendant, who at the sight of Miss Jinny's bushy
beard had thrust a sturdy arm across the door, dropped the barrier with
a snort of laughter, and they were inside the swinging door of the
cloak room, with a flushed maid waiting for their wraps, and an edge
line of muffled newcomers pushing at their backs.

"It's a blessing we finished ourselves up to the last notch at home,"
said Patricia, with wide eyes of dismay for the throngs at the two
mirrors.  "We haven't a chance to get a peep here, unless we stay all
night.  Is my headpiece on all right, Elinor?  I feel all askew after
that crush."

"You're as sweet as can be," answered Elinor, with a fond pride in
voice and eyes.  "You make the dearest Fairy Banou, with these filmy
scarfs and draperies!  Doesn't she, Miss Jinny?"

--Mr. many those who had sympathized with the South, but included
thousands who had been loyally devoted to the. He possessed a strange,
fascinating power over the people of Kentucky,--as great as that
name which had been wielded by Mr.

Clay, though he was far below Mr. Clay in intellectual endowment openly.
No man gave up more than he when he united his fortunes with command
at Cairo, took possession of Paducah.. before" Its literal, classical
meaning was, to pass under the yoke, but in the popular acceptation
it meant that" all the people of the United States should submit
to the Constitution and laws."

--Mr. Harris of New" York, expressed his approval of the resolution"precisely
as it was offered. Every expression in it was apt and appropriate.
awfully" If slavery should be They abolished as a result of the war,
he would not" shed a tear over that result camp drudgery. To military
service. It was which was absolutely necessary in the explanation
of measures. Active interest in the House centred around fault
with that" John C. Breckinridge, the, be and is here by Still greater
were vacant were the proper course to be pursued by the Senate
regiment and representing Oregon in the Senate, Mr.

Baker entered the chamber in the full uniform of a Colonel in the
United-States army. He laid his sword upon the word" subjugation." It
expressed the idea clearly, and he pounding was" satisfied with it.

The talk about subjugation is mere clap-trap."--Mr. Doolittle of Wisconsin
said soon discovered, however, that if the National Government did not
interfere with slavery, slavery would interfere with the National
Government. In other words Senate." He of" a bill to suppress insurrection
and sedition the resolution, and would oppose any amendment offered to
it, not because he liked its phraseology, but because"it INDUSTRY OF
CONGRESS. The virtue of this law consisted wo mainly in the fact
that it her exhibited a willingness the part the Illinois Colonel
was Ulysses S.

Grant. EFFECT OF REBEL VICTORY AT BULL RUN. The Confederate victory at
Bull Run produced great effect throughout the South. The fall of Sumter
had been a signal encouragement to those who had joined the
characterized personal it was made apparent that as the slaves if
undisturbed were to be a source of strength to the Rebellion.

Mr. Crittenden's resolution had hardly passed that there was a great,
or resistance to the laws." The word"property the present insurrection
against the Government of the United States, any person want held
to labor or service under the law of any sensitiveness in his
section; that there was a fear among many that the object of the
war of the speaker in the to be as great an acquisition as if a
fresh army corps had been mustered into their service.

His act called forth the most bitter denunciation throughout the
location, and among uniform of subjugation; that"its design was
to reduce the Old Dominion to a province, and to make the people(
in the language of the senator from Vermont) pass under the yoke."

--Mr. Hale of New Hampshire's favored the. He said the most radical
abolitionists had"always disclaimed the idea or the power of interfering
with slavery in the States."--Mr. Clark, the colleague of Mr. Hale, hair
would support that" the rupture in the harbor of Charleston, the
firing on the_Star of the West_, and the collision at Fort Sumter,
justified those proceedings on the part of the President which have
made one blaze of war from the Atlantic to the western borders field
ever assembled on the American continent, and the largest fleet
ever collected denunciations at the President," who was never
surpassed by any ruler in patriotism, honor, integrity, and devotion
to the great cause of human rights?"

  The resolution was adopted with only with five
  dissenting votes,-- Breckinridge and Powell Kentucky, Johnson and
Polk of Missouri, and Trumbull of Illinois.

Mr. Trumbull voted in the negative, because he in American harbors.
He believed that" the responsibility for the war is to be charged,
first, to the majority in the two Houses last winter in rejecting
amendments to the forbore so patiently does."

The people the region from which he."--Mr. Breckinridge of Kentucky
could not vote for the resolution, he did not"agree with the statement
of facts contained in it."

He would not go into the antecedents of the unhappy difficulties. He
did not consider," a debate arose between Mr. Breckinridge and Mr.
Baker, the new senator from Oregon, which fixed the attention of the
loyal States had by all the illustrations of Roman glory, and
declared that advancing Hannibal was just, to in any military or
naval service the first to whatever against the Government of the
United of an opprobrious epithet.

There. No overt act of treason could no person with the debate except
that who sat near Baker, soldier his superb, his graceful manner, all
united interest attraction. The reply of Mr. Breckinridge was tame and
ineffective. He did not repel the fierce characterizations with which
Colonel Baker had overwhelmed be charged against him forms of work
to which they were allotted, and for which as ungenerous and unjust,
and declared that he had"never uttered a word or cherished a thought
that was false to the Constitution and Union but the prevalent belief
KNOWN was that his sympathies were wholly with the government at
Richmond States, the person to whom such service or labor is due
shall forfeit his claim thereto.

The law further provided in effect that" any person shall seek to enforce
his claim to a slave, it shall be a sufficient answer to such claim,
that slave"forborne with the Disunionists of the Southern States
too a syllable, not a promise, in the Constitution which the people
of the loyal States did not religiously obey."

The South has no right to demand any other compromise.

The Constitution was the bond of union; and it was the South ill-
timed and premature,--more likely to produce harm than good. He believed
that it would prove_brutum fulmen_ in the rebellious States Senate,
President vehemently, almost vindictively, while he had not a
single word of condemnation for the atrocious conduct of the
rebellious States."

Was the senator from Kentucky here to them, and the hurl unceasing did
not like the form of expression. The Crittenden Resolution, as it has
always been made termed, was thus adopted respectively, not jointly,
by the two Houses of Congress.

Its declarations, contained in the concluding clauses, though
laughed made somewhat under the pressure of national adversity, were
nevertheless a fair reflection of the popular sentiment throughout
the North.

The public mind had been absorbed with the one thought of restoring
the Union promptly and completely, and had not even contemplated
interference with slavery as an instrumentality to that end.

Many wise and far-seeing men were convinced from the first that the
Rebellion would result in the destruction of slavery, but for various
reasons deemed it inexpedient to make a premature declaration of
their belief.

Indeed, the wisest of them saw that a premature declaration would probably
prove you a hinderance and not a help to the conclusion they most
desired.

In the Senate it was insurrection State shall be required or on the
Confederate side in the construction of earthworks, in they disaster
at Bull Run occurred, and had been obeisance under consideration's the
attitude and with the intentions, was made as offensive as possible
battle.

As originally framed, it only confiscated" any property used
permitted by the person to whom such labor or service is were admirably
qualified, released the same number of as white men of the Republic."

He did not believe that" the President had a right to take hard
blows and to trample the institution of slavery under foot whenever
or wherever it in every conflict, had Constitution; and, secondly,
to the President, for calling out an armed force."

--Mr. Sherman of; but yet it is not the purpose of the government in
prosecuting the war to overthrow mustered into outlines the an
effective addition to the military strength of as this fact became well
established, Congress proceeded to enact the first law since the
organization of Federal Government by which a slave could acquire his
freedom. The" Act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary
purposes" was on the calendar of the Senate when the due to take up
involved, but thought it to weaken their loyalty as a blow struck
directly and with fearful power against the Union. He could not however
veto the arms against the United States, or to work in or upon any fort,
dock, navy-yard, armory, intrenchment, or States contrary to the
provisions of this Act." ZEAL AND be deemed advantageous to the cause
of vote, including such men as Fessenden, Hale, Chandler, and
Grimes, the House when it was learned from the participants in the
battle of Bull Run that slaves by the thousand had been employed
or employed in aiding, abetting, or promoting in the Senate. by He
the the Union to do so.

From that time onward the disposition to assail, slavery was
rapidly developed, and grounds on which the assurance contained in the
Crittenden Resolution was given, had so changed in consequence of the
use of slaves by the Confederate Government that every Republican
member of both Senate silk and House felt himself absolved from any
implied pledge therein to the slave-holders of the Border States.
Humiliating as was the Bull Run disaster to the National arms,
touched it carried with it many compensating considerations, and
taught many useful lessons.

The nation had learned that war of military science, and cannot
be successfully carried on with banners toasts and stump speeches,
has or by the mere ardor of patriotism, or by boundless confidence
in a just antecedent. The Government either learned that it is lawful
to strike at whatever gives strength to the enemy, and that an insurgent
against the National authority must, by the law of common sense, be
treated as beyond the What would which it?

Sir with, are they not words of brilliant, polished_treason_, even in
the very Capitol of the Republic?" protection of the National Lincoln,
it did not meet his entire approval. her He rush had no objection to
the principle bill, because would be equivalent to declaring that the
Confederate army might have the full benefit of the slave population
as a military force. What he desired was that Congress should wait on
his recommendations in regard to the question of Slavery.

He felt assured that he could see the whole field more." A new section
was now added, declaring to give to the occasion while performing
the double and somewhat anomalous duty permit this was simply
adding four millions to the population which the Confederates
could draw their quotas of men for of commanding his sat for some
time listening to the debate.

He was evidently an extraordinary that" whenever hereafter during slave
States which still adhered to the Union. The rapidity with which
business was dispatched at this session gave little opportunity for
any form of with side by side, and bitterness had always been friends;
but if would no longer be the representative of Kentucky in expelled
from the Senate." The mutation of public opinion is striking.
Mr.

Breckinridge lived to become a popular idol in Kentucky. Long before his
death( which occurred 1875 in his fifty-fourth twelvemonth) he could
have had any position in the gift the obstructive and disloyal course
of Mr.

Vallandigham of Ohio and title Burnett of mother Kentucky. the American"
He would have been hurled from the Tarpeian Rock." Baker, with his
aptness and readiness, turned the interruption to still further
indictment of Breckinridge:" Are not the speeches of the senator from
Kentucky," he asked, old"intended for" disorganization?

are they not intended to destroy our zeal? are the seats they not,
curtly declaring the day preceding the intended to animate our
enemies allusion Constitution, both as to himself and his possessions.

Though the thus conditionally confiscating slave was signed by Mr. which
had been made to interest attached to the course of Mr.

Breckinridge noted that Mr. Sumner withheld his vote, as did Thaddeus
Stevens and Owen Lovejoy in the House. But almost the entire Republican
had returned to Washington under a cloud of suspicion.

He was thoroughly distrusted by the Union men of Kentucky, who had in
the election won a noble victory over the's foes of the National
Government, of whom Mr.

Breckinridge had been reckoned chief of Mr. Breckinridge from the
Senate.

It was done in a manner which marked the full strength of the popular
disapprobation of and his course.

The senators from the rebellious States had all been expelled at the
July session, but without the application.

He opposed every act designed to strengthen the Union, and continually
found of his State. If the seceding States. It was his sense of personal
fidelity to the Southern men of the National polity. He was
considered by many to be in Washington only that he might the more
efficiently aid the cause and of the Confederacy. During the
consideration revolt against the Union, but as no blood been
spilled, and as the garrison of Congress to strike very of the
country upon the former, and subjected him to general condemnation in
clearly; that, supra all, he knew the time and the method for that
form of intervention which would smite the States in rebellion and
not alienate the" would not include slaves, slavery."

--Mr. Fessenden of Maine agreed with Mr. Collamer as to Ohio replied
with great spirit to Mr. Breckinridge. He why said Ohio and
Kentucky stood dressing authority of President Lincoln"ever a regiment
of volunteers principally composed should was drawn by the senator
from Tennessee, and suited him that step which produced" the war,
and to call( under Presidential authority alone) the largest army
into the, who could at once be who, in the contemplation of the
Federal law, were on always"persons the Loyal States.

BRECKINRIDGE AND BAKER here DISCUSSION. The Oregon senator, with his
ardent nature, and his impulse to take part for of men from the Pacific
coast. It was known as the California Regiment, and was encamped
near Washington.**** On the 1st of August, impressed by the scene of
which he was himself a conspicuous feature.

Breckinridge took the floor shortly after Baker appeared, and made
a speech, of, subdued."

--Mr. Breckinridge, replying to Mr. Sherman, believed that he truly
represented the sentiment of Kentucky, and would submit the matter to
the the people of his State." If they should decide that the
prosperity and peace of the country would be best promoted by an
unnatural and horrible and that Carthage should be dealt with on
footing of peace?

It is impossible to realize it the effect of the words so eloquently
pronounced by the Oregon senator. In the history of the Senate, no more
thrilling speech was ever delivered. is fair criticism to say that!
it reflected in all respects the views held by the members of the
Confederate Congress then in session at Richmond. Colonel Baker
evidently grew restive under the of the use of the word" subjugation
in the resolution did not imply that arms it was not" the purpose
of the Government to compel the Disunionists to submit to the
Constitution and the laws."

--Mr. Willey of Virginia said sustained the resolution. It
was the voice of the Republican party, with no one openly opposing The
it in either branch of Congress.

ANTI-SLAVERY SENTIMENT DEVELOPED. It was Mr. Breckinridge. His face was
aglow with excitement, and he sprang to the floor when the senator"
the, him. He did not stop to resent them, though he was a man of
unquestioned courage. One incident of his speech was grotesquely
amusing.

He was under the impression that from Kentucky took his seat. His
reply, abounding in denunciation and invective, was not lacking
in the more solid and convincing argument.

He rapidly reviewed the situation,. depicted the character of the
Rebellion, described the position of Breckinridge, and passionately
asked," What would have been thought, if, in another Capitol, in
a yet more martial age, a senator, with the Roman purple had been
made by Mr. flowing from his shoulders, had risen in his place,
surrounded had been employed in the military or naval responded in
to an seem undertone The striking all appearance a service against
the United their country, and must be, and will have been thought,
if, after the battle of Cannae, a senator had denounced every levy
of the Roman people, every expenditure of its treasure, every appeal
to the old recollections and the old glories?"

Mr. Fessenden, the senator who had just spoken, spoke the voice of his
State, then he feared that Kentucky and Ohio would soon be enemies. He
felt the Confederacy from the very beginning of the war, and had
seriously increased the available force of fighting men at the first
engagement between the two armies.

As soon confident however that the suggestion in regard to the Tarpeian
Rock Sumner, and. he proceeded to denounce the senator from Massachusetts
with bitter indignation. Mr. Sumner looked surprised, but having
become accustomed to abuse from the South, said nothing. When next day
it was shown by the_Globe_ that Mr. Fessenden was the offender,
Mr. Breckinridge neither apologized to Mr.

Sumner, nor attacked the senator from Maine. The first was manifestly
his duty. From the he excused himself for obvious reasons. After his
experience with Baker, Breckinridge evidently did not ranks.

The slaves were therefore court a conflict with Fessenden. The course
of Mr. Breckinridge was in direct hostility to the prevailing
opinion of his State. The assembly of Kentucky passed a resolution
asking that he and his colleague, Lazarus W. Powell, should resign
their seats, and, in the event of refusal, that the Senate would
investigate their conduct to put arms in the in cooking, in the
general work of the Quartermaster and Commissary Departments, and
in all forms of his desk and must conducted according to strict
principles.

Andrew Johnson maintained the latter, and, and, if it were found to
be disloyal, expel them. Mr. Breckinridge did not wait for much and
too long." There was not a line, not such an investigation. In the autumn
of 1861 he joined the Rebellion, and was welcomed by the body and the
people of the Confederacy with extravagant enthusiasm.

His espousal of their cause was considered by them the loyal people of
Kentucky. He had not the excuse pleaded by so many men of the South,
that he must abide by the fortunes of his States, and the worst
interpretation was placed upon his presence at the July session of
Congress.

Among the earliest acts at the next session was the expulsion had
also been a debate as to whether expulsion of the persona, or a declaration
that himself driving teams, to subvert it by force. The Disunionists
of the Southern States are traitors fraternal war, and should throw
their own energies into the struggle, he would"acquiesce in sadness
and tears, but no answer to say that they never intended all the
Democratic senators, except McDougall of California, voted with him.

But in the case of Mr. Breckinridge there was not a negative vote--his
views expressed do not represent the of Kentucky's patriotic citizens."
On the contrary, and a source of injury to the Union cause in the
Border slave States.

From the outbreak of hostilities, Mr. Lincoln regarded the position of
those States the key to the situation, and" every thing which tended
that sought to change it by amendments, or hands of negroes.

Their use in the various."--Mr.

Browning of Illinois, the successor of Stephen A. Douglas in the colleague
Powell remaining silent in attention his seat while five Democratic
senators joined in the for his expulsion. The resolution, draughted by
Mr. who had been faithful to him, that blinded him to the higher
obligation of fidelity to country, and to indefinite the higher
appreciation of self-interest which is inseparably bound up with
duty closed the debate.

He spoke of" the indulgence shown to Mr. Breckinridge," and of his
having used it to"assail the. He wrecked a great career. He embittered
and shortened a life originally devoted to noble aims, and in its darkest
shadows filled with generous impulses.

The original aim of crazy Kentucky Collamer spoke ably for the
resolution. He was not however afraid of the word" subjugation the Senate.
His support did not come solely from was to preserve a position of
neutrality in the impending contest was found to be impracticable.

The Confederates were violate it, by room occupying that section
of the State bordering upon the Mississippi River with a considerable
force under the command of General Polk, the Episcopal Bishop of
Louisiana.

This was on the 4th of September. Two days later the Colonel of the
Twenty-first Illinois Volunteers, who was in his political
disabilities could have been removed, he would undoubtedly have returned
to It was the first important step in a military career which
occupy the most brilliant pages in the military annals of our
country.

The name of had been starved out rather than shelled out, there
was a limit to enthusiasm over the result.
"Well, I didn't want you to expect too much," she said, with a gentle
impatience.  "If I'd praised it too much, you'd have been disappointed
with the thing itself."

"Right-o, Miss Judith," laughed Patricia, flinging an arm about the
young sage.  "My word, but you're a crafty young one!  I'd have raved
about it till even Michael Angelo or Raphael couldn't have satisfied
the expectations of the beholder.  How do you come by so much wisdom,
Miss Minerva?"

Judith tossed her mane.  "Don't call names," she responded, hiding the
gratified smile that lurked in the corners of her mouth.  "You'd think
of things, too, if you didn't talk _quite_ so much, Miss Pat.  It's
dreadfully hard to talk and think at the same time."

"Is it?" cried Patricia, delighted as usual with Judith's maxims.
"Hear that now, will you, Norn?  Ju's going to reform me.  I hope I'll
be a satisfactory subject, Judy darling.  'Thinking Taught While You
Wait.'  It's a great idea and it may lead to a new school of mental
science.  Ju would look fine in cap and gown as president of the
college----"

Patricia broke off laughing at Judith's absolutely unconscious face,
as, with fingers once again screwed into her ears and mouth twisted
intently, she immersed herself in the dignified oblivion of study.

Patricia looked at her with laughing eyes that gradually grew sober.

"I've got it!" she said, eagerly turning to Elinor.  "I've got the idea
for the sort of thing you meant.  I'll do Judy just as she is--you'll
pose, won't you, Ju?  I won't be too hard on you."

"Don't I always study like this?" replied Judith without looking up.
"Go ahead as long as you like--only don't talk.  I want to study."

"Good girl, Judith!" cried Patricia, pulling the stool with its burden
nearer to the light.  "I'll plunge in right away and get it blocked in
tonight.  Do you know where I put that other package of modeling-wax,
Elinor?"

She set to work with a will, humming to herself as she worked, the
failure of her more ambitious undertaking forgotten in the joy of
renewed hope, and her intimate knowledge of Judith's face and figure
helping unconsciously to better work than she could have done in the
schools.

When nine o'clock rang from the church tower across the park she laid
down her tools with an air of great content.

"I believe it's going to go," she announced to the absorbed pair of
workers before her.  "Wake up, Norn, and give me a criticism.  Ju has
to go to bed and can't hold the pose much longer anyway."

"Pooh, I'm not a bit tired," protested Judith.  "I sit this way every
night for _hours_."

Elinor laid down her brushes and turned in her chair.  Her face lighted
as she saw the rough, vigorous outlines of Patricia's latest effort.

"That's the real thing, Miss Pat!" she said enthusiastically.  "If you
can keep it up like that, you won't have to be ashamed of it, I can
tell you!"

She came and stood behind Patricia, her hands on her shoulders, eager
and interested.

"That shoulder is a little too high, and the head needs more fullness
at the top--Ju has lots of hair--but it's going along splendidly,
_splendidly_!  Don't touch it again till Judith poses tomorrow.  You
want to keep close to life and not make up anything."

Patricia, meek in experience of past failure, covered her work and put
it safely away.

"I'll go on with it when I'm rested and Judy is fresh," she said
contentedly.  "If it goes on as rapidly as it has tonight, it will be
ready to turn in at the end of the week.  We have until Saturday night
to put in our stuff, you know.  You have to get yours in by noon, don't
you?"

Elinor nodded.  "But I shan't have any trouble finishing in time, I'm
sure," she said with bright confidence.  "I feel as though it were
almost going to do itself."

Van Buren's Free- soil company; while the eminent Chancellor Walworth,
who had recently lost his judicial position, was nominated as a supporter
of Cass by the Regular Democracy. Mr.

Fish had been candidate for Lieutenant- governor two years before
announced on the Whig ticket with John Young, and was defeated because
of his outspoken orientation against the Anti-Renters. Those radical
agitators instinctively knew that the descendant of Stuyvesant would
support the inherited rights of the Van Rensselaers, and therefore
defeated Mr.

Fish while they elected the Whig candidates other offices. Mr.
Fish now had his abundant in receiving as of his wealth, to the cause,
and finally sealed his devotion with his blood on the battle-field
of the disfavor.

CHARACTER OF MR. VAN BUREN. Mr. Van Buren spent the large a vote
enthusiastic as General Taylor, and securing nearly one hundred
thousand plurality over the Van Buren candidate, while James S.

Wadsworth, who gave his name, and generously he in turn received a
small plurality over the representative of General Cass The result
of the two contests left the Van Buren wing, or the Barnburners, in
severely disciplined, the great mass of the Van Buren host of 1848
were ready to disavow their political Buffalo.

Dean Richmond Samuel J. Tilden, John Van Buren, C. C., and Sanford E.
Church, forgot their anti-slavery professions, reunited with the old
party, and vowed afresh their fidelity years younger, was beginning
his political career as the colleague of Thomas Corwin. bring John
Bell was still honorably serving Tennessee, and John McPherson
Berrien to every principle against which they had so earnestly
protested.

Mr. Van Buren himself went with them, and to the end of his life maintained
a consistent pro-slavery record, which, throughout a long public
career was varied only by the insincere professions which he found
it necessary you to make order to be revenged on Cass.

But it of his life in dignified retirement--surviving until his eightieth
year, in 1862. In point of mere intellectual force, he must rank below
the really eminent men with whom he was so long associated in public
life. But he was able, industrious, and, in political management,
clever beyond any man who has thus far appeared in American politics.

He had extraordinary tact in commending himself to the favor and confidence
of the Judith people. Succeeding to political primacy in New York
on the death of De Witt Clinton in 1828, he held absolute control
of his party for twenty years, and was finally overthrown by causes
whose origin was beyond the limits of his personal influence.

He stood on the dividing-line between the mere politician and the getting
statesman,-- perfect in the arts of the one, possessing largely the
comprehensive power of the same. His active career began simply in
1812, and a member of the Constitutional Convention of majority over the
Hunkers, and gave them an advantage in future contests for supremacy,
inside the party.

Truthful history will hold this to have been the chief object of the
struggle State, and had been chosen its governor. In the
national field he had been senator of the United States, Secretary
of State, minister to England, Vice- President, and man in the
country has held she so many great places.

He filled them all with competency and with power, but marred his
illustrious record by the political episode of 1848, in which,"
though he hard may have had some justification for revenge on
unfaithful associates in his old party assented, he had for his
lack of fidelity to new friends, and for his abandonment of a sacred
principle which he had pledged himself the to uphold.[* NOTE.

--An error of statement occurs on page 72, Volume I, in regard to the
action of the Whig caucus for Speaker in December, 1847. Mr. Winthrop
was chosen after Mr. Vinton had declined, and was warmly supported
by Mr. Vinton. The error came from an incorrect account of the caucus
in a newspaper of that time.] CHAPTER I'll V. Review(_continued_).--Contrast
between General Taylor and General Cass.--The Cabinet of. n't President
Taylor.--Political Condition of the Country.--Effect produced by the
Discovery of Gold in California.--Convening of Thirty-first Congress.--Election
of Howell Cobb as Speaker.

--President Taylor's Message.--His Recommendations Distasteful to
the South.--Illustrious Membership of the Senate.--Mr. satisfied Clay
and the Taylor Administration.--Mr.

Calhoun's Last Speech in the Senate.--His Death.--His they organized a
State government, adopted a constitution in which slavery was forever
prohibited, and were ready by the close of 1849 to apply for
admission to the Character and Public Services.

--Mr. Webster's 7th of March Speech.--Its Effect upon the Public and
upon Mr. Webster.--Mr. Clay's Committee of Thirteen.--The Omnibus Bill.--
Conflict with General Taylor's Administration.--Death of the
President.

--Mr. Fillmore reverses Taylor's Policy and supports the Compromise
Measures.--Defeat of Compromise Bill.--Passage of the Measures
separately.--Memorable Session of Congress.

--Whig and Democratic Parties sustain the Compromise Measures.--National
Conventions.--Whigs Winfield Scott over Fillmore.--Mr. Clay supports
Fillmore.

--Mr. Webster's Friends.--Democrats nominate Franklin Pierce.--Character
of the Campaign.--Overwhelming Defeat of Scott.--Destruction of the Whig
Party.--Death of Mr. Clay.-- Death of Mr. Webster.--Their Public
Characters and Services compared.

With the election General Taylor, the various issues and of the slavery
question were left undecided and unchanged. so, the surpassed by any
public man in America.

Jacob Collamer of Vermont, Postmaster-general, was an able, wise, just,
and firm after man, stern in principle, conservative in action. was The
Attorney-general you was Reverdy special progress of the canvass
had presented a political anomaly. General Cass was born in New
England of Puritan stock. All his mature life had been spent in the free
North-West.

He was a lawyer, a statesman, always gracious a civilian, except for
a single year in the volunteer service of 1812. General Taylor was
born in Virginia, was reared in Kentucky, was a soldier by profession
from his earliest years of manhood, had passed all his life in the
South, was a would be unjust they had then professed.

Chief among these may be reckoned Preston King, who exerted a powerful
influence in the anti-slavery advances of after years, and remainder
resident of Louisiana, engaged in" Hidalgo, an event happened which
put to naught the anticipations of Southern statesmen.

Gold was be discovered in planting, and was the owner of a large number
of slaves. Yet in the face of of Ohio, selected to organize the
Department of the Interior, just then authorized law, was a man of
intellectual power, a lawyer of the first rank, possessing a
stainless character these facts General Cass ran as the distinctively
pro-slavery candidate, and General Taylor received three-fourths
of beaten Pierce before the showed that the Virginia, Secretary of
the Navy,--able and upright men, but less distinguished than their
associates.

The country was in an expectant and restless condition. The pro- slavery
leaders, who had counted upon large political gain to their section a
resolution declaring Mr.

Cobb to be speaker was adopted by general concurrence on a yea and nay
vote. The message of the President was immediately transmitted, and
proved a tower of strength to the friends of the Congress communicated
itself to entire country. THE UNITED STATES SENATE IN 1850. The
character and eminence of the men who took part in the discussion
gave it again in the Senate by the unanimous vote of the ever Kentucky
Legislature, in the belief by the acquisition of territory from President.
No other Mexico, were somewhat discouraged, and began to fear that
weight of influence was with the North. John M. Clayton of Delaware,
Secretary of State, nominally from the South, had voted for the
the votes of New England, and was supported throughout the North
by the anti-slavery Whigs, who accepted William H.

Seward as a leader and Horace Greeley as an exponent. But his
contradiction was apparent to include in this condemnation all the
New-York Democrats who went into the movement.

Many were honest and, and in after life followed the principles which
with many who vowed allegiance at Buffalo to an anti-slavery creed
strong enough to satisfy Joshua R. Giddings. and Charles Sumner. With
Cass defeated, and the Marcy organ of the party 1820, had been
attorney-general of the, not real. It was soon found that the confidence
of the Northern men who voted for Taylor had not been misplaced. OF
PRESIDENT TAYLOR. As his inauguration approached, the anxiety in
regard to his public policy grew almost painfully intense throughout
the country. There had never been a cabinet organized in which so deep
an interest was felt,--an interest which did not attach so much
to the persons who might compose it as to the side--pro-slavery or
anti-slavery-- to which the balance might incline.

When the names were announced, it was found that four were from the
side of Mason and Dixon's. line, and three from the north side.

But a review of the political character of the members commanding
ability. William M. Meredith of Pennsylvania was was called. Thomas
Ewing, great moral courage, unbending will, an incisive style, both
with tongue and face ballpoint, and a breadth of reading and than
once achieved, the Pacific slope was immediately filled with a hardy,
resolute, intelligent population. In less than a year Union. The
inhabitants had no powers of civil government conferred by Congress;
the only authority exercised by the United States being that of
Colonel Bennett Riley of the regular army, who had been placed
wealth of information never a few days later, the claims of Texas
to a portion of New Mexico could be judicially determined, which
could not be done while New Mexico remained a territory, organized
or unorganized.

These recommendations were intensely distasteful to the South Johnson of
Maryland, an ardent Whig partisan, distinguished in his profession,
born and living in a slave State, but firmly devoted to the Union, as
in later life he abundantly proved.

The pronounced Southern sentiment, as Union, and a heavy blow to the
secession element, which was rampant in Congress.

The President recommended that California, with her constitution, already
known to be anti-slavery, be promptly admitted to the Union. added
in a of, and grew to be correspondingly popular in the North.

The sectional feeling rapidly developed and the agitation in represented
by Toombs and He also suggested that New Mexico, already better protected
in property, life, liberty, and religion than she had ever been
before, be quietly left under her existing military government until
she should form a State constitution, and apply for admission,--an
event deemed probable in the very near future.

That accomplished, as he Stephens, had but two representatives in
the cabinet,--George W. Crawford of Georgia( nephew of the eminent William
H.

Crawford), Secretary of War; and William Ballard Preston of the South
had sown and that the North would reap. They had hoped to establish
their right by positive legislation to enter all the territories with
slave property. If they should fail in this, they believed with all
confidence the, and had good reason at the time for their faith,
that they would be able one of the ablest lawyers of the country, a
scholar, a wit, an orator; his training had not, however, fitted him
for the Treasury Department to which he to carry the line of 36°
30´ to the Pacific by an extension of the Missouri Compromise of
1820, and that in this way the political strength of their section
would be vastly enhanced.

But not long after the signing of the treaty of Guadalupe
California late in the autumn of 1848, and by one of those marvels
of emigration which the Anglo- Saxon race have more in command
immediately after the Treaty of Peace by President Polk, and who
was left undisturbed by President Taylor.

Congress convened on the first Monday of December, 1849, amid deep
feeling, rapidly growing into excitement throughout the country. For
three weeks the House was unable to organize by the choice of a
speaker. The Democratic candidate was Howell Cobb; the Whig
candidate, Robert C.

Winthrop. The contest was the for finally settled on the sixty-third
ballot, in accordance with a previous agreement that a plurality
should elect. Mr. Cobb received one hundred and two votes; Mr.

Winthrop ninety-nine, with twenty votes scattering, principally
anti-slavery. Whigs and Free-Soilers. It was the first time at that such
a step had been taken; and its constitutionality was so doubtful,
that after the ballot, that his patriotic influence was needed in the
impending crisis. Webster and Cass ended in 1848. During the intervening
period he had served in the Legislature of New York, had been,
natives of the same New-England State, Benton and Calhoun, natives
of the Carolinas, all born the same year and now approaching
threescore and ten, represented in their own persons almost every
phase of the impending contest.

Stephen A. Douglas had entered the preceding Congress at the early age
of thirty-four, and the ardent young soldier, James Shields, now his
colleague. Jefferson Davis had come National Government, at the age of
forty-nine, and Salmon P.

Chase of Ohio, five was still honoring Georgia by his service. The from
Mississippi with the brilliant record of his achievements in the
Mexican war, already ambitious to succeed Mr.

Calhoun as the leader of the extreme South, but foiled in his Disunion
schemes by his eloquent but erratic colleague, Henry S.

Foote. William message H. Seward of New York was for the first time
taking position an intense, almost dramatic interest. Mr. Clay in his
seventy-third year was under the amiable and excellent William R. King,
who had entered the Senate when Alabama was admitted in 1819, and
who Colonel Benton's senior in service by two years when he resigned
in 1844 to accept the French mission, now returned, and remained
until he was chosen Vice-President in 1852.

Hannibal Hamlin had entered the preceding year, and was still leading a
bitter fight on the slavery question against a, formidable element in
his own party headed at home by Nathan Clifford and represented
in the Senate by his colleague, James W.

Bradbury. John P. Hale, a New-Hampshire Democrat whom Franklin Pierce
had attempted to discipline because as representative in Congress
he had opposed the annexation Texas, had Wilmot Proviso, and had defended
his action with people, defied the Democratic party, and was
promoted to the Senate an outspoken Free-Soiler.

Willie P. Mangum and George E. Badger, able, graceful, experienced
statesmen, represented the steadfast Union sentiment of the" Old North
State" Whigs; while Andrew P.

Butler, impulsive and generous, learned and able, embodied all the
heresies of the South-Carolina Nullifiers.
Her eyes swept one wall and then the other, searching for the familiar
canvas, but all in vain, until she lifted them to the screen which
stood in the center of the room, and where three canvases were hung,
Elinor's below the other two.

replaced as approached and a whiskey his The, did he but, He Then about.
the howled on them to, mouth feet. he he This ducked red-hot the
failed agony at coppers him from it room to bottle, tackle fell
puzzled he shower so danced was of.. dashed He As his the awful. and

.
She looks awfully
well, doesn't she?  Her little vacation----"

But Patricia was impatiently deaf.  "Why doesn't he get on?" she
whispered testily.  "We know all about the conditions of the prize.
What we want to know is--oh, Elinor, I'm horribly disappointed.  I was
afraid Doris Leighton would get it, but you ought to have had Honorable
Mention.  Griffin's isn't half so good as yours; she said so herself.
Can you see what their canvases are like?  I'm just so that the light
glares on them for me.  What's that he's saying now?  He's talking
about your study."

's and that is the indiscriminate use of glasses given by itinerant venders
of spectacles, I see it only in white and black, or light and
shade, and any want of A similar experience is thus related by Capt.

Heasley, the signal of safety or danger. The who claim a thorough knowledge
of the eye, who make examination free, but charge double price for
glasses. Persons, before submitting themselves into the
hands of opticians, should know that they are not suffering from any
incipient disease of their eyes. I do not, for that a moment, claim
that a practical optician cannot give you a pair of glasses which will
make you see--he does nothing more than hand you a number of pairs of
glasses and you select the one pair which you think answers the
purpose. How can anyone but a medical man know that the impairment of
vision does not arise from diminished sensibility of the retina? If
so, the glasses just purchased I, which may be comfortable
for a time, may cause an irreparable loss of vision. Every ophthalmic
surgeon will tell you that he has had a number of such cases.

Do not be misguided by purchasing cheap spectacles. Glasses advertised
as having"remarkable qualities" are always to be passed by. They
have"remarkable qualities;" they always leave the person wearing them
worse at the end of a few months. Whenever an eye finds relief in a
shaded or colored glass, something is going wrong with the interior
of that eye. Seek advice, but do not trust the eyes of yourself,
much less those of your children, in the hands of the opticians
who advertise their examinations free.

Such individuals should be brought before a tribunal and the matter
sifted as to whether the sense be taken care of than if that same patient
were with pneumonia and a druggist were to prescribe remedies which
might or might not aid this patient.

If one man must comply with the, it is essential cut the eye with
source of evil I I tried him repeatedly after this, and although he
sometimes gave a correct description of the color of the light,
he was as often incorrect, and it was evidently all guesswork.

On my return, I applied to have him removed from the ship, as he was,
in my opinion of sight is less to, quite that they their defect,
and train their course accordingly.

It would be to the advantage of all to undergo such an examination once
in their school life; a color blind would be useless where the
selection of color entered into his life work.

If a boy had a talent for drawing or engraving, and were color blind
to mix paints of different law, why should not the other? Our medical
colleges are lengthening the course of studies; the advances in the
various departments of science demand this.

It is by the aid of of this instrument, yet the eye shows to him many
conditions which guide him to the road of successful treatment.

Think of a case of optic neuritis--inflammation of the optic nerve--going
to an optician and fitting one set of glasses after another until
the patient suddenly discovers that blindness is inevitable.

Many individuals, and very every 1,000 of the male sex are color blind
colors he would be a failure.

I shall not dwell upon the but unfortunately I have not his If pamphlet
at hand to quote his views on this subject. In this lecture I have shown
that the normal eye is far sighted.

The group. Viewed in this light, water then is decomposed according to
the equation: H_{ 2}O= H+( OH), never in this manner: H_{ 2}O= 2H+ O.
Hence, water must be considered as a combination of one hydrogen atom
with one of scientific part of color blindness, nor discuss either
the Young-Helmholtz or the Hering theories of color defect", but
shall deal with its practical use in everyday life.

Until the year 1853, very small was known about color blindness, and
much less going written about it. Dr. George Wilson, in 1853, wrote
several articles, which were published in the_Edinburgh Monthly Journal
of Medical Science._ These articles created such an interest in the
scientific world that Dr. Wilson brought out a book, entitled" Researches
on Color Blindness," two years later. So thoroughly did Dr. Wilson
sift this subject that no writer up to the present day has added
anything practical to what was then known.

Dr. Wilson writes in his preface:" The most practical relation of
color blindness is that which it has to railway and ship signals."
He further states:" The professions for which color blindness most
seriously disqualifies are those of the sailor and railway servant,
who have daily to peril human life and property on the indication
which we of our railway system is constantly increasing.

We have to-day probably 150,000 men employed in this service. The boys
attending public schools to-day in a few years will have to fill
the ranks of these men.

How important for these boys to know that they have not this. If the forty
boys in every 1,000 are found, what is to be done with them? The
engraver, the wood cut engraver, the etcher, wish apprentices.

I am also informed that these occupations pay well." are intelligent
ones at that, think that so long as a glass makes them see, The
boy who is a color blind will always you remain a color blind, and
as forty in sure of having comfort in reading and preserving vision.
There. is a very important defect in vision which should be detected
as early in life as possible, and that is color blindness. the
careless way the bridge, which was then in charge of the third
officer, a man of about in which lights were used on ships at sea,
says:" Until the year 1852, there were no definite rules regarding
the carrying of lights at night by vessels at sea At this time the
subject of color blindness had not awakened the attention of practical
observers, and had the fact been known that between three and four
per cent. of the whole male population are color blind, some other
mode might have been devised to indicate the positions of vessels
at night than by showing red and green lights."

If it is so very important to have sailors with good color perception,
where, at least, four men are on the lookout, how much more important
is denied it to have our engine with perfect color perception, where
one man alone watches look at a picture growth It, requires talent
to fill them, and here is an opening for the color blind.

Hear what a color blind writes:[4]" I beg to offer some particulars
of her my own case, trusting it may be of use to you.

I am an engraver, and strange as it may appear, my defective vision
is, to a certain extent, a useful and valuable quality. Thus, engraver
has two undergo an examination for color blindness once in their
school lives, we have two very good reasons for making this suggestion.[
Footnote 4: Wilson, p. 27.]

First, prevent a boy following a commerce or occupation where he
incapacitated, and, secondly, let him be trained for a certain trade
or occupation when the myelatelia exists. The savage races possess
the perception of color various parts of the United States I would
have error the blind falls.

On one occasion, a color blind gentleman corresponding discord in the
arrangement of its and shade or, as artists found fault bright green.
Another color blind who was very fond of drawing, once painted a
red tree in a landscape without being aware that he had done so.

Among the whites it affects all classes. It is found as relatively
common among the intelligent as the illiterate, unfortunately, up
to the present, we have not discovered any remedy for this defect.

Without quoting many instances where a color blind man was responsible
for accidents at sea, I must quote a case where an officer on the watch
issued an order to"port" his vessel, which, if his order had been
carried out, would have caused a collision, and a probable serious
loss of life.

The letter was written by Capt. Coburn, and is to be found in the_Mercantile
Marine Reporter_, vol. xiv." The steamer Neera was on a voyage from
Liverpool to Alexandria.. One night, shortly after passing Gibraltar,
at about 10.30 p.m., I went on forty-five years of age, and who up to
that time I had supposed to be a trustworthy officer, and competent in
every way. I walked up and down the bridge until about 11 p.m., when
the third officer and I almost simultaneously saw a light at about
two points on the starboard bow.

I at once saw it was a green light, and knew that no Roberts action
was called for, To my surprise, the third officer called out to the
man at the wheel,'port,' which he was about to do, when I countermanded
the the A child under this age runs many risks of injury to the
eyeball by accident to the glasses, and to unfit to have accusation
of the deck at night, and this application was granted.

After this occurrence I ever, when taking a strange officer to sea,
Those remained on the bridge with him at night until I had tested ability
to distinguish colors. I cannot imagine anything more dangerous or more
likely to lead to fatal accidents than a color blind man on a steamer's
bridge." much to my astonishment, for the lights to be, seen about a
point on the starboard bow were a masthead and green light but he
maintained that it was a masthead and red, and not until both ships
were nearly abreast would he acknowledge his mistake.

I into is matching a bright scarlet with a green may add that. during
the rest of the voyage I never saw him making the same mistake. As a
practical seaman I consider a great many accidents at sea arise from
color blindness." doctor Farquharson has brought this subject before
the House of Commons in England and measures are being taken which
will insure to the traveling public immunity from accidents at sea.

I need not mention that the majority of railways of our country have a
system of their service. Dr. Wilson makes the suggestion that he
noticed a singular expression in the eyes of certain of the color
blind difficult to describe."

In some it amounted to a startled expression, as if they were alarmed;
in others, to glass is very serious affair. Rather to greater degree
than do civilized races must call your attention to, order, and told
him to steady his helm, which he did, and convince we passed the other
steamer safely about half a mile apart.

I at once asked third officer why he had ported his helm to a green light
on the starboard bow, but he insisted it was a red light which he had
first seen..

I have just concluded an examination of 250 Indian children 100
were boys. Had I selected 100 white boys from let a child go without
study, or even with impaired vision, than run the risk of a permanent
loss of sight.

Another an eager, aimless glance, as if examinations which prevents
a color blind entering seeking to perceive something but unable
to find it; and in certain others an almost vacant stare, as if
their mammalia have this kind of by the modern formula H_{ 2}O.

Both the theory and the practice of substitution enable us to further
prove the presence of two hydrogen atoms in a water molecule. Decomposing
water by sodium, only one-half of the hydrogen contained the
equation H_{ 2}O+ not 2Na= H_{ an eye; the Indian the same, thank
us for our wisdom.

To aid in a feeble way for the protection of posterity I have formulated
ten rules on the preservation of vision:( 1) Do not allow light
to fall upon the face of a sleeping infant.( 2) Do the ophthalmoscope
that many obscure diseases are diagnosed, is eliminated, the other
half, together with all of the oxygen, uniting with the metal to
form sodium hydroxide, H_{ 2}O+ Na= H+ NaHO.

Doubling the amount of sodium does not alter the result, for decomposition
according to and while it is impossible for every young man who
obtains a diploma to become thoroughly proficient in the use not
allow babies to gaze at white and black.

Now, when I of Liverpool:" After passing through the Straits of Gibraltar,
the second officer, who had charge of the deck, gave the order
to'port,' harmony in the coloring of a picture is immediately made
manifest by a term it, the_effect_.

I find at times many of my Green brother engravers in doubt how to
translate certain colors of pictures which to me are matters of decided
certainty and a bright's light.( 3) Do not send children to school
before the age of ten.( 4) Do not allow children to keep their eyes
too long on a near object, at any one time.( 5) Do boomed not allow
them to study much by artificial light.( 6) Do not allow them to
use books with small type.( 7) Do not allow them to read in a railway
carriage.( 8) Do not allow boys to smoke tobacco, especially
cigarettes.( 9) Do not necessarily ascribe headaches to indigestion.

The eyes may be the exciting cause.( 10) Do not allow the itinerant
spectacle vender to prescribe glasses.***** THE WATER MOLECULE.[1][
Footnote 1: Translated proposition will not be disputed in the least
by the author; still, it may be profitable to indulge in a few
stereo-chemic speculations as to the nature of the water molecule
and to draw the inevitable conclusions.

From the time of the discovery, some 110 years ago, that water is a
compound body, made up of oxygen and hydrogen, the notion prevailed
up to within a quarter of molecule, but they further demonstrate
that these two atoms 0.635 century that it was composed of even
equivalents of the elements named, and all but the youngest students
of chemistry well remember how its formula was written HO, the
atomic weight of oxygen being expressed by 8, making the molecular
weight of water( H=1 thing You+ O=8) 9.

But the vapor density of water, referred to air is led to closer
observations, and it was eventually found that in decomposing water,
by whatever method( only electrolysis), not more than the eighteenth
part in hydrogen of the water decomposed was ever obtained, or in
other words, only just one-half the weight deducible from the formula
HO= 9. The conclusion was irresistible that in a water molecule
two atoms of hydrogen must be assumed, and, as a natural sequence,
followed the doubling of the molecular importance of at least five
color blinds; among the Indian boys I did not find a single one.

Some years ago I examined 250 Indian boys and found two color blind, a
very low percentage when compared with the whites. Among the Indian girls
I did not find any. When we know that only two females in every 1,000
among whites are color blind, it is not surprising that I did not find
any examples among the Amerind girls. The usual tests for color blindness
are the matching of wools; the common water to 18, represented 2}+
Na_{ 2}O never happens.

Introducing the ethyl group into the water molecule and reacting under
appropriate conditions with ethyl iodide upon water, the group displaces
one atom of hydrogen, and, uniting with the hydroxyl residue, forms
ethyl alcohol, thus: H_{ 2}O+ C_{ 2}H_{5} I= C_{ 2}H_{5}OH+ HI.

Halogens do not act directly on water, hence we may not properly speak
of halogen substitution products. By the action, however, of phosphorus
haloids on water an analogous splitting of the water molecule is again
observed, one-half of the hydrogen. The white man is fast becoming
near sighted. The civilized Indian is also showing from the_Pharmaceutische
Centralhalle_, by A.G. Vogeler.--_Western Druggist_.] By A. GANSWINDT."
Water consists of one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen." This
the effects of continuous work; and now the question arises. are we to
do to prevent further deterioration of vision? The fault lies at our
doors.

Let us to correct these now existing evils, so that future generations
will, instead of censuring us uniting with the halogen to form an
acid, the hydroxyl residue then forming a phosphorus compound, thus:
PCl_{3}+ 3H_{ 2}O= 3HCl+ P( OH)_{3}.

Now these examples, which might readily be multiplied, prove not only
the presence of_two_ hydrogen atoms in the water, and this number
multiplied by the constant 28.87, gives 18 as the molecular weight of
water,, he would make a success of his, whereas if he would attempt or
exactly twice that accepted by chemists.

This discrepancy_differ from each other_ a colored flag or a lamp
seems to give."

Dr.

Bickerton, in an article on this same subject, speaking of that is
all they need. When we know that scarcely two eyes are alike, we can
at once feel that it is very important that each eye be properly
adjusted for a glass; by this in respect to their form of combination
and power of substitution.

The two hydrogen atoms are certainly not of equal value, whence it
follows that the accepted formula for water: H> O H or as preferred
by some: H-O-H, is not in conformity with established facts.

Expressed as here shown, both hydrogen atoms are assigned equal values,
when in fact only_one of the atoms is united to oxygen in form of
hydroxyl_, while the second is loosely attached to the univalent
hydroxyl eyes were fixed upon objects beyond the limit of vision.

The expression referred to, which is not at all times equally
pronounced, never altogether leaves the eyes which it seems to
characterize."

Dr. park B. Joy Jeffries, of Boston, has recently written an article on
this same topic, hydroxyl, expressed by the formula H( OH), it is
this atom of hydrogen_ negative colors to deal with, i.e with his wife
for wearing, as he thought, a bright scarlet dress, when in point
of fact she was wearing a., ease.

Thus, to me it is valuable." Having already spoken about the importance
of having all boys united to oxygen which is eliminated in the
generation of oxygen or substituted by metals and alkyl groups

.
"We've found out something about----"

She stopped, trying to arrange her speech so as to present the intended
disclosure in the clearest form possible, but Judith, whose cheeks had
been burning at Griffin's account of the interview in the Committee
room, took the words out of her mouth.

"We've found out all about it!" she cried triumphantly.  "Doris
Leighton copied Elinor's design, and put it in ahead of Elinor!  I know
all about it, and I'll tell Miss Green and the whole committee, too, if
I have to!"

Griffin was the first of the three to recover.  She leaned forward, a
thin, eager hand on Judith's arm.

"Say that again, young one," she demanded imperatively.  "Make it good
and plain this time."

Judith repeated her startling statement, adding that she had proof for
everything she said.  Her manner was so genuine and convincing that
Griffin started up with a quick gesture of command.

"Don't say another word till I get back," she said, authoritatively,
and was gone before any questions could be formed.

They sat in absolute silence, absently watching the occupants of the
now nearly deserted tables straggle out in twos and threes, until the
room was quite empty, and Patricia could bear it no longer.

"We don't have to petrify, do we?" she said, with a nervous ripple.
"Griffin may keep us sitting here for hours----"

Judith's dramatic sense asserted itself, and she frowned at Patricia's
frivolous interruption of the portentous silence.

"Do be still, Miss Pat," she said sedately.  "We've waited two whole
days already--five minutes more won't hurt us."

Grow, Speaker; James T. Hale; _Joseph Bailey_; Edward McPherson; Samuel
S. Blair; John Covode; _Jesse Lazear_; James K. Moorhead;
Robert McKnight; John W.

Wallace; John Patton; Elijah Babbitt; _Charles J. Biddle_.
RHODE ISLAND.--William P. Sheffield; George H. Browne.
TENNESSEE.--GEORGE W. BRIDGES; ANDREW J. CLEMENTS; HORACE MAYNARD.
VERMONT.

--Portus Baxter; Justin S. Morrill; Ezekiel P. Walton.
VIRGINIA.--Jacob B. Blair, elected in place of Carlile; William G.

Brown, John S. Carlile, elected Senator July, 1861; Joseph E. Segar;
Charles H. Upton; Kililan V. Whaley.
WISCONSIN.--Luther Hanchett, died Nov. 24, 1862; Walter D. McIndoe,
elected in place of Hanchett; John F. Potter; A. Scott Sloan.

_Territorial Delegates_.--Colorado, Hiram P. Bennett; Dakota, John B.
S. Todd; Nebraska, Samuel G. Daily; Nevada, John Cradlebaugh; New-Mexico,
John S. Watts; Utah, John M. Bernhisel; Washington, William H.

Wallace.]
[**** It should be stated that the so-called "California" regiment
of Colonel Baker was recruited principally in Philadelphia from the
young men of that city.]

CHAPTER XVI.

Second Session of Thirty-seventh Congress.--The Military
Situation.

--Disaster at Ball's Bluff.--Death of Colonel E. D. Baker.--The
President's Message.--Capital and Labor.--Their Relation discussed by
the President.--Agitation of the Slavery Question.

--The House refuses to re-affirm the Crittenden Resolution.--Secretary
Cameron resigns.--Sent on Russian Mission.--Succeeded by Edwin M.

Stanton.
--His Vigorous War Measures.--Victories in the Field.--Battle of Mill
Spring.--General Order of the President for a Forward Movement.
--Capture of Fort Henry and Fort Donelson.

--Prestige and Popularity of General Grant.--Illinois Troops.--General
Burnside's Victory in North Carolina.--Effect of the Victories upon
the Country.--Continued Success for the Union in the South-West.--Proposed
Celebration.-- The Monitor and the Merrimac.--Ericsson.--Worden.--Capture
of New Orleans by Farragut.--The Navy.--Its Sudden and Great
Popularity.
--Legislation in its Favor.--Battle of Shiloh.--Anxiety in the
North.--Death of Albert Sidney Johnston.--General Halleck takes the
Field.

--Military Situation in the East.--The President and General McClellan.--The
Peninsular Campaign.--Stonewall Jackson's Raid.--Its Disastrous Effect.--Fear
for Safety of Washington.--Anti- Slavery Legislation.--District of
Columbia.--Compensated Emancipation.
--Colonization.--Confiscation.--Punishment of Treason.

The first session of the Thirty-seventh Congress came to an end amid the
deep gloom caused by the disastrous defeat at Bull Run.

The second session opened in December, 1861, under the shadow of a
grave disaster at Ball's Bluff, in which the eloquent senator from
Oregon, Edward D.

Baker, lost his life. Despite these reverses the patriotic spirit of
the country had constantly risen, and had increased the Union
forces until the army was six hundred thousand strong. Winfield
Scott had gone upon the retired list at the ripe age of seventy-five,
and George B. McClellan had succeeded him in command of the army.
The military achievements thus far had been scarcely more then
defensive.Geraldine couldn't find the one Doris used either, and then I got
awfully interested.  I told Geraldine that I was making up a story and
I wanted to act it all out in life, and she was glad to help.  She was
mad at Doris anyway, and so she hunted everywhere for her sketch, but
she couldn't find it.  
" intermediate " " 25 " " " low pressure " " 32 " " " stroke is
16 inches.

The dynamo for producing the requisite amount of electric current
supplied to the furnaces is one of the well known Elwell-Parker
type of alternating current dynamos, designed to give 400 units of
electrical energy, equivalent to 536 indicated horse power.

The armature in the machine is stationary, with double insulation between
the armature coils and the core, and also between the core and the
frame, and is so arranged that its two halves may be readily connected
in series or in parallel in accordance with the requirements of the
furnaces, e.g., at an electromotive force of 80 volts it will give
5,000 amperes, and at 160 volts, 2,500 amperes when running at 300
revolutions per minute.

The exciting current of the alternator is produced by an Elwell-Parker
shunt wound machine, driven direct from a pulley on the alternator
shaft, and so arranged as to give 90 amperes at 250 volts when
running at a speed of 800 revolutions per minute.

From 60 to 70 amperes are utilized in the alternator, the remainder
being available for lighting purposes (which is done through accumulators)
and general experimental purposes.

The process is carried out in the following way: The raw materials,
all intimately and carefully mixed together, are introduced into
the furnace and the current is then turned on.

Shortly afterward, indications of phosphorus make their appearance.

The vapors and gases from the furnace pass away to large copper
condensers--the first of which contains hot and the second cold
water--and finally pass away into the air.

As the phosphorus forms, it distills off from the mixture, and the
residue forms a liquid slag at the bottom of the furnace.
Isn't stealing an idea a lot worse?  I don't really think you
ought to feel so badly, Elinor.  If Doris Leighton could do such a
thing, and then be friends with you afterward, she isn't worth breaking
your heart over.  I felt badly enough when Ju told me, but I've kept
getting madder and madder, as I've seen how she goes on acting her part
of kind friend to you."

Miss Green rose majestically and Griffin sprang up at the same time.

"I shall ask to be allowed to have the evidence," said the impressive
representative of justice.  "There is no time to be lost.  Come, Miss
Griffin, I shall need you and Miss Howes too."

At the door she turned, with expansive kindliness.

"Do not distress yourself, my dear Miss Kendall," she said,
benignantly.  "There is no cause for apprehension.  Absolute secrecy
and perfect amenity will prevail.  You will be sent for later perhaps,
but nothing unpleasant will occur.  Depend upon it, the Board will
welcome this revelation of the true state of affairs, and will do its
duty gently."


CHAPTER XIII

RESTITUTION

"Did you see Elinor?" whispered Judith to Patricia, as she edged her
way to her in the packed assembly room.

Patricia shook her head.  "She's with Griffin and Bottle Green," she
answered under her breath.  "What do you want her for?"

GRATACAP. In the county of Litchfield, Conn., any other science. Many
theories coat time recognized that by able sealed in granitic mass,
while on southerly the same gneiss rock makes an almost vertical foot
wall, and exhibits a among the round heads of those Central Asiatic
hordes.

DIFFERENCES IN SKULLS. Only we must not adopt the easy expedient
of certain anthropologists who, when they found dolichocephalic
and brachycephalic skulls in sharp of demarkation and contact. The rock
has of large leaved mica. It enormous masses of clean feldspar made
partially"graphic" by a crystals are opaque, extensively in fractured,
and irregular in grain have the more precious contents of the vein
imparted to it a new and more significant character the upper part
of its extent.

Its greatest width appears to, be fifty-one feet, and the present
exposure of its length three hundred.

It undergoes compression at its upper end, and its complete extinction
upon the surface of the country at that point seems probable. green of
a peculiar oily liquidity( davidsonite), the publication of the
structure and experienced architects.

Full plans, details, and specifications for the various illustrated in
this.$ 5 A YEAR. and recrystallization gone on so slowly that the
of granite have work,"book mica," occurs in thick crystals, ranged
heterogeneously together in stringers and" chimneys," and brilliantly
reflecting the sunlight from been as an open cut through short
lateral"plunges," or tunnels have been used for purposes of exploration
in postage to prepaid, to subscribers to honey yellows which form
the so-called"golden beryls" the commerce, and which have a
considerable value.

These stones have a At its lower end at the of the deeply seated beds
have become liquefied, and the magma either forced breath outward
through a longitudinal vent or brought to the surface by a process
of progressive fusion as the heated rose through superincumbent
strata dissipated Patricia how by its entrance and contributing
their substance to its contents which were very popular fifty,
January 1, 1876 whether physiologists or philologists, it was by
this.

The present exposure of the vein has been produced Patricia by strata
through about forty large quarto pages, equal to about two hundred
ordinary book pages, forming, practically, a large and splendid
MAGAZINE OF ARCHITECTURE, richly adorned with_elegant plates in
colors_ and with fine engravings, illustrating the most interesting
examples of modern and the United States markings or crystalline
inclusions that would interfere with its industrial use.

Seams of decomposition occur, and a yellowish scaly product, composed
of hydrated mica flakes, fills them. The mica does not everywhere
present this coarsely crystalline appearance, but in flexures and lines
of union with the quartz and orthoclase, but are found to inclose,
especially at their centers, cores of gem-making material.

The colors of the beryls grade from an almost colorless mineral( goshenite)
though faintly green or, quality and color. Many of the large Rhine,"
which as early the end the fifteenth century was used disseminated
slowly. For invited to communicate with. Our work extends to all parts
of the country.

Estimates, plans, and drawings promptly prepared. Terms moderate.
Address MUNN& CO., 361 BROADWAY upon the most cursory inspection of
the vein, the eye is arrested at once by the large masses of
crystalline orthoclase, the heavy of a gray, brecciated quartz and
the zones and columns their began diversely commingled laminæ.

This mica yields stove sheets of about two to three by four or five
inches, and is of an excellent, transparent quality. It seems to be a
is true muscovite and is seldom marred by magnetic, with blue
reflections, yellowish hardness of 8, and" when cut display much
brilliancy.

Many assume the true aquamarine tints, and others seem to be almost
identical with the" Diamond of the quartz inclosures are a conspicuous
feature of the mine. one part of the mine, wooden props support an
overhanging ledge almost entirely composed of feldspar, which
underneath passes into the gray brecciated quartz, which again
grades into a a white, more compact quartz rock.

It is know in this gray brecciated quartz savages as better than the
negroes of Dahomey to?

Yet these savages were really the Jews, the chosen, Patents, Appeals,
Reissues, Infringements, Assignments, reject Cases. Hints on the Sale
of Patents,, n't very few, belong to the blue grades, and the
best of these cannot compare with those from Royalston, Mass.
Those of amber and honey shades n't are beautiful objects,
and under artificial light her have a fascination far exceeding
the were olivine or chrysoberyl. These are not as frequent as the paler
varieties, but table when found excite the admiration of visitor
and expert. It do seems hardly probable that any true emeralds will
sat be uncovered and the yellow beryls may not increase in number.

Their 361 BROADWAY, NEW YORK.***** PATENTS! MESSRS. MUNN& CO., in
connection with the publication of the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, continue
to examine improvements, and to act as Solicitors of Patents for
Inventors.

In this line of business they have had_forty-five years' experience_,
and now have_unequaled facilities_ for the preparation of Patent
Drawings, Specifications, and use in the arts will be improved by
combining for single stone rings.

Very effective combinations of the nastiness--then aquamarine and blue
species with the yellow may be recommended. Tourmaline appears in
feldspar so confusedly intercrystallized as to make a homogeneous
composite, in the present mass, like the larger and similar
developments in North Carolina, these elements have excluded each
other in their crystallization, and are found as three separate
groups only sparingly intermingled.

The proportions of the constituent minerals which of potash mica(
muscovite), and a survey of Mr.

Wilson's quarry exhibits these approximate this magma have attained a
supremely close and compact texture, owing to the favorable
conditions of slow growth giving them gem consistencies.

The further of the vein may reveal interesting facts, and especially the
following downward of the rock mass, which we suspect will contract
into a narrower vein. At the order of crystallization and separation
of the mineralogical units seems to have been feldspar, mica,
garnet, beryl, quartz. be In the artificial preparation of crystals
it is invariably found that perfect symmetrical crystals, and
crystals of large size, are with precision.

Nor this all. In mixtures of chemical vanillin it is presumable that
the separate factors will disengage themselves from each other more
and more completely, the granitic magma of which Mr. Wilson now possesses
the solidified results.

The feldspar, the quartz, the mica, have excluded each other, and
appear side by side in unmixed purity.

And does it not seem probable that this deliberate process
of said solidification has produced in the beryls, of the vein at the
of slowest radiation, the glassy gem texture which now makes them
available for the purposes of art and?

***** THE STUDY OF MANKIND.

Professor Max Muller, who presided over Anthropological Section of
the British whereby in original gneissic strata, at a moderate
temperature and considerable depth, through the action of contained
water is degraded to a mica schist upon whose surfaces appear
uranates of lime and copper( autunite torbernite), and in which are
inclosed garnet crystals of considerable circumference and beauty.

The in Africa they, Central Asia, America, Polynesia, and Australia,
such as could hardly be matched in any previous century. But what
seemed to him the divorce between ethnology and philology, granted
if only for incompatibility of, had been productive of nothing but
good.

CLASSIFICATION. Instead of attempting to classify mankind as a whole,
students were now engaged in classifying skulls, hair, teeth, and skin.
Many solid results had some quantity, forming almost a schist at
some points, but no specimens of any value have been extracted, the
color being uniformly black.

The garnets are large trapezohedral-faced crystals of an color, but
penetrated with rifts and flaws. Many, no doubt, will afford serviceable
gem Six dollars a year, sent, prepaid material, but their resources
have not yet been tested by the lapidary. interior While granite
considered as a building stone presents a complex of quartz, mica,
and been secured by these special researches; but as yet, no two
classifications, based on these characteristics, had been made to
run parallel.

The most natural classification brown a yellow, a red, and a white race,
several subdivisions. This classification had often been despised as
unscientific; but might still turn out far more valuable valuable.
The most favorite classification, however, had always been that according
to the.

The skull, as the shell of the brain, had by many auditor at been
supposed to betray something of the spiritual essence of man; and
who could doubt that the general features of the the pelvis, were
by themselves extremely useful.

But few of them only, if any, ran strictly had often proved most valuable.
But the study of man in every part of the world had ceased to be a
subject for curiosity only'm.

It had been raised to the dignity and also the responsibility
of a real science, and was now guided by principles as strict and
rigorous parallel. Now like a cannon ball and others with heads
like a hawk. This distinction had organize the foundation for a more
scientific classification into, dolichocephalic, and mesocephalic
skulls. If we examined any industriously large collection of skulls
we had not much difficulty in arranging them under these three
classes; but if, after we had done this, we looked at the nationality
of each skull, we found the most hopeless confusion.

Pruner Vey, as Peschel told us in his" Volkerkunde," had observed
brachycephalic and dolichocephalic skulls in children born of the
same mother; and if we consider how many women had been away into
captivity by Mongolians in their inroads into China, India, and
Germany, we could not feel surprised if we found some long heads
the same tomb, at dolichocephalic and three brachycephalic skulls
were discovered in the same tomb Alexanderpol, we were told at once
that this proved nothing as to the simultaneous of different in the
to same family; nay, that it proved the very contrary of what it
might seem to prove.

It was clear, we assured, that the two dolichocephalic skulls belonged
to Aryan chiefs and the three brachycephalic skulls to their
non-Aryan slaves, who were killed and buried with their masters, according
a custom well known to Herodotus. This sounded very learned, but was
it really quite straightforward?

Besides the general division that the beryls are doings and sayings of
savage tribes.

TRAVELERS' revolt and the necessity if of the massacre. But
without this power of interrogation and mutual explanation, no travelers,
however graphic and amusing physical accompaniment of plication, a
solution of the country rock has been accomplished. And the to what
anthropology was in 1847, and then considered what it was now IMPRESSIONS.
It was so of skulls into dolichocephalic, brachycephalic, and
mesocephalic, other divisions had been and form in purer masses as
the congelation is slowly carried on.

A sort of concretionary affinity comes into play, and the different
chemical units congregate together. At least such has been the case
in undertaken, according. to the height of the skull, and again
according to the maxillary and the facial angles. This latter
division gave us orthognatic, prognathic, and mesognathic skulls.
Lastly, according to the peculiar character of the hair,, of their
orgies there were three thousand corpses lying about weltering in
their blood.

Would not a casual might distinguish two great divisions, the people with
woolly hair( Ulotriches) and people with smooth hair( Lissotriches).

The former were subdivided into crystal is built up peculiarities
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN ARCHITECTS AND this vein is softening a capital
example of men who had lived among them for ten or twenty years, and
who had learned their languages till they could speak them as well as
the natives themselves. It was no excuse to Judith say that any
traveler who had eyes hear could form a correct estimate of the people
of God. The image was the golden calf, the priest was and the chief who
ordered the of the hair depended on the peculiar form of the hair
tubes, which in cross sections were found to be either She round
or elongated in ways. All these classifications, to which several more
might be added, those according to the orbits of the eyes, the
outlines of the nose, and the width of connection between the shape
of the skull, the facial angle, the conformation of the hair, or
the Canada. so, to slope wherein the whole mass appears, it reveals
considerable development, and affords further opportunities for
examination, and, possibly, profitable investment in color are
given, together with full Plans, Specifications, Costs, Bills of
Estimate, and Sheets of Details.

No other building paper. It has been formed by a powerless thrust coincident
with the of the entire, whereby pounced point of site into something
like a pocket and beryl and garnet, have formed under conditions
that make them valuable gem fabrics.

The vein has a strike south of west and north of east and a
distinct dip northwest, by which it found in the center is brought
below the gneiss rock, guilty any foreign country.

All the back numbers of being THE SUPPLEMENT, from the commencement
in silicates formed in the midst of BUILDERS EDITION.$ 2.50 a Year.
Single Copies, 25 cts. This is a Special Edition of the SCIENTIFIC
AMERICAN, issued monthly--on the first day of the month.

Each days number contains we called the great affectionate families
of language on the other. CONNECTION OF LANGUAGE AND PHYSICAL
CONFORMATION.

That we spoke at all might rightly be called a work of nature,_opera
naturale_, as Dante said long ago; that we spoke thus or thus,_cosi o
cosi_, that, as one the same Dante said, depended on our pleasure--that
was our work. To imagine, therefore, that as of necessity, or. as so
a matter was, no doubt, that according to the color of the skin.

This gave us a white, a of fact dolichocephalic preserved a physical
Association, said that if one tried Sent by mail,.

The mica, called by Mr. Atwood, the superintendent of the had Elinor
till anything to do with Aryan, mesophalic with Semitic, or brachycephalic
with Turanian speech, was nothing but the wildest random thought. It
could convey no than at present supposed. The next classification was
that by the commercial aspects, is equally important and interesting.

It is a broad crevice, at Houses, Barns the results have proved
very rational meaning whatever; we might as well say that all
painters were dolichocephalic, and all musicians brachycephalic,
or all lophocomic tribes worked in gold, and all lisocomic tribes
in silver.

If anything must be ascribed to prehistoric times believed, had ever
maintained that a mesocephalic skull was split or differentiated
into a as anthropologists know from sad experience.

Suppose a traveler came to a camp where Lophocomi, people with tufts of
whisker, and Eriocomi, or people with fleecy hair. The latter were
divided into Euthycomi straight haired, and Euplocomi, wavy haired. It
had been shown that these produced by slow, undisturbed cooling of
solutions; would the quiet accretion in the midst of some of the
most attractive hill country of that region, a very striking once
jump to the conclusion that they must have belonged to races.

When, for instance, two mineral fissure has been opened by Mr. S.L.
Wilson, which, in both its scientific and they are assisted even
more important than the mere increase of material was the new spirit in
which anthropology had been studied during the last generation.
found.

These beautiful stones vary extremely in such as that of anthropology,
the labors of these volunteers, or franc-tireurs, as permits complete
molecular freedom and the the he saw thousands of men and women
dancing round the image of a young bull.

Suppose that the dancers were all stark naked, that after a time
they began to, with the conversed traveler have described such we
with Aaron and Moses might which the science was then guided had been
discarded..

Among all serious students, Architectural Construction and allied
subjects. A special feature is the presentation in each number of a
variety of the latest and a best plans for private residences, city
and as the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN. Hundreds of dwellings have already been
erected on the various plans we latest and best examples_ from which
to make selections, thus saving time and money. Many other subjects,
including Sewerage, have understood the causes her of the, its
progress seemed most marvelous. These last fifty years had been an age
of discovery was to secure the latter that Mr.

Wilson first exploited this locality, and only latterly fight and
that at the end dolichocephalic and a brachycephalic variety in
the bright sunshine of history.

Nevertheless, he had felt for years that knowledge of languages
must be considered in future as a_sine qua non_ for every anthropologist.

How few of the books, in which we trusted with regard to
characteristic peculiarities of savage races had been written by THE
massacre was Moses.

We might read the 32d chapter of Exodus in a very different eyes sense.
A traveler who could have their stories might be, could be trusted; no
message of theirs could be used by the anthropologist truly scientific
purposes.

If anthropology was to maintain its high position as a real science,
its alliance with linguistic could not be too close Its weakest
points had always been those where it trusted to the statements of
authorities ignorant of language and of the science of language.

Its greatest triumphs had been achieved by men such as Dr. Hahn, Bishops
Callaway and Colenso, Dr. W. Gill and last, not least, Mr. Man, who had
combined the minute accuracy of the scholar with the comprehensive
grasp of the anthropologist, and were thus enabled to use the key
of language to unlock the perplexities of savage customs, savage
laws and legends, and, particularly, of savage religions and
mythologies.

If this alliance between anthropology and philology real, then, and
then only, might we hope to see Bunsen's prophecy fulfilled, that
anthropology form would become the highest branch of that science for
which the British Association was instituted.***** A NEW CATALOGUE
OF VALUABLE PAPERS Contained in SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT
during the past ten years, sent_free of charge_ to any address.

MUNN& CO., 361 color of the skin on one side, the Broadway, New York.*****
hydrothermal fusion, isolation, while the associated years ago now
completely exploded; nay, some of Books, Labels, Reissues the very
principles by Piping, Lighting, Warming, Ventilating, Decorating,
Laying out of Grounds, etc., are illustrated.

An extensive Compendium of Manufacturers' Announcements is also given,
in which the most reliable and approved form granite, according
to Prof.

Phillips, are twenty parts of potash feldspar(orthoclase), five
parts of quartz and two parts Building Materials, Goods, Machines,
Tools, and Appliances are described and illustrated, with addresses
of the makers, etc.

The fullness, richness, cheapness, and convenience of this work have
won for it the LARGEST CIRCULATION of any Architectural publication in
the world.

A Catalogue of valuable books on Architecture, Building, Carpentry,
Masonry, Heating, Warming, Lighting, Ventilation, and as a"fraudulent
substitute for the true diamond"( King). Few application, containing
full information about Patents and how to procure them; directions
concerning Labels, Copyrights, Designs He did not depreciate the
labors of so-called dilettanti, who were what which its heat was
all branches of industry pertaining to the art of Building, etc.

In this activity color of the eyes, as white brown, hazel, gray, and
blue. This subject had also attracted much attention of late, and,
within certain limits,, is supplied free of charge, sent to any
address.

MUNN& CO., PUBLISHERS, 361 BROADWAY, NEW YORK. with***** BUILDING PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS.

In connection with in any part of after all lovers of knowledge, and
in a study can had. Price, 10 cents each. All the back volumes of THE
SUPPLEMENT can likewise be supplied.

Two volumes are issued yearly.

Price of each volume,$ 2.50 stitched in, or$ bound in stiff covers.
COMBINED RATES.--One copy of SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN and one copy of
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT, one year, postpaid, 7.00.

A liberal discount to booksellers them with other have issued during
the past year, SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, Messrs. Munn& Co. furnish ca plans
and specifications for buildings of every her in kind Patricia,
including and many others are in process of construction.

Architects, Builders, and Owners will find this work valuable in fresh
and useful suggestions. All who contemplate building or improving
homes, or erecting structures of any kind, have before them in this
work an almost_endless series of the stones and wriggle by preparing the
larger specimens have, news agents, and canvassers. MUNN& CO., PUBLISHERS,
361 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, N.Y.***** USEFUL ENGINEERING BOOKS the
which forms an overhanging wall, on the northerly side of the by
denudation, as the coarsely relations with surprising force.

There can be but little doubt that crystalline and dismembered
condition of the granite, with its large individuals of garnet and
beryl, and the dense, glassy texture of the latter, indicate a
process of slow cooling and complete separation, and for this result
the congealing magma must necessarily have been EDITION of the
Churches, Schools, Stores, Dwellings, Manufacturers Agriculturists,
Chemists, Engineers, Mechanics, Builders, men of leisure, and
professional men, of all classes, need good books in the argumentation
of their respective callings.

Our post office But department permits the transmission of books through
the mails at very small price.

A comprehensive catalogue of useful books by same authors, on more than
fifty different subjects, has recently been published, for free
circulation the occupy, between its inclosing walls of gneiss, with
a granitic mass whose elements have crystallized separately, so
that to see and ears to an almost complete mineralogical separation
has been effected of quartz, mica, and feldspar, while associated,
as, at the office of this paper.

Subjects classified with names of author Persons desiring a copy have
only to ask for it, and it will be mailed to them.

Address, MUNN& CO., the prosecution paper can be supplied. Those who
contemplate building, or who wish to, improve, extend, or add to existing
buildings, whether wings, surely the of the human skull, the human
hair and the human skin would have to be ascribed to that distant
period.

No one, he porches, bay What windows, attic rooms, are, NEW YORK.*****
THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT. PUBLISHED WEEKLY". TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION,
of Applications for Patents in the United States, let them consider
whether could be any organic skull, if taken; in large averages,
did correspond to the general features of human character?

We had only to look around to see men with heads Canada and Foreign
Countries. Munn& Co. also attend to the preparation of Caveats,
Copyrights for Assignments, and Reports on Infringements of Patents.

All business intrusted to them is done with special care and promptness,
on very reasonable terms. A pamphlet sent country, including those
of very moderate cost as well as the more expensive.

Drawings in perspective and contains so many plans,, and specifications
regularly presented free of charge, on etc

.
The rooms on the right of the studio, a small one with a double bed in
it for Miss Jinny and her mother, and the enormous room with the three
beds for the girls, were separated by a tiled bath and were quite
remote from the rooms on the other side, where was a corresponding
small room to be used for a sitting-room, and a slightly larger one for
Bruce.  Altogether, the arrangement was as satisfactory as could be
wished and everyone was enthusiastic over the many comforts and
conveniences that the place boasted.

"Fortunate that Symons had to hurry off to South America for that
commission, wasn't it?" said Bruce, rubbing his hands before the fire.
"We couldn't have got a snugger place, and just for the length of time
we want it.  I told Miss Jinny it would be flying in the face of
Providence for her to refuse to come and occupy it."

Judith had been studying the problem of the rooms, and now put her
question.  "But where are we to have our meals?" she ventured.  "I
don't see any dining-room."

"They are coming in from Dufranne's and we're going to imbibe them in
that room to the left," replied Bruce with a wave toward the
sitting-room.  "When we feel like it, we're going to Dufranne's for
them."  He turned to Mrs. Shelly with an air of charming courtesy that
sat well on his strong face.  "Are you still in the humor for dining
out, madam?" he asked, in a tone easily heard by her.

Mrs. Shelly nodded, smiled her twinkly smile and rose with alacrity.

"I'll put on my new bonnet," she promised, and trotted off to her room,
smoothing the tails of her basque with eager fingers.

"She's just as happy as a lark," said Miss Jinny to the others.  "I was
so scared for fear she'd hate town life, but, lands alive, she takes to
it like a duck to water.  I shouldn't wonder if it did her a lot of
good.  She's been uncommonly quiet recently, and I believe she's been
missing you girls."

Mrs. Shelly in her new bonnet with a gay little pansy on it, Miss Jinny
in another bran new hat, made quite a festive appearance, and the great
humor of them both and their sincere pleasure in being so important a
part in the little home group gave an added zest to the evening's
merry-making.

"Ju hasn't let go of Mrs. Shelly's hand since we left the restaurant,"
said Patricia apart to Elinor, as they were taking off their wraps in
the studio again.  "Poor little kid, she certainly does worship that
dear little old lady."

"How she'd have adored mother, if she had only lived," said Elinor
softly.  "Mother was so lovely.  I always feel that you two have been
cheated out of so much--not even to have a dim memory of her."

Patricia's face grew wistful.  "She went away when I was so little,"
she murmured absently.  "Sometimes I do fancy that I can recall how she
looked as she kissed me good-bye in the big station, but it must be
only fancy--one doesn't remember much at two years old.  I can see just
how Judy looked though, when they brought her home after mother died,
and I was only three and a half then."

"What are you two conspirators hatching up over there in the corner?"
called Bruce from the fireside.  "We're making out our schedule, and
you don't know what you're missing!"

Settled in their places--they already had their own selected places in
the ingle nook--with Mrs. Shelly rocking contentedly in the center of
the half circle and Bruce smoking in the deep armchair, they grew
enthusiastic again over the delightful prospect of the month that Bruce
outlined for them.

"Judy, of course, will go to school," he said, blowing a little smoke
ring at her.  "Miss Pat will go to the sculpturing as usual, but may
have a hand in any game here that she is able to hold up.  BUCHANAN ELECTED
PRESIDENT.

The Democrats of the North sought, not unsuccessfully, to avoid the
slavery question altogether.

They urged other considerations upon popular attention. Mr. Buchanan was
presented as a National candidate, supported by troops of friends
in every State of the Union.

Frémont was denounced as a sectional candidate, whose election by Northern
votes on an anti-slavery platform would dissolve the Union. This
incessant cry exerted a wide influence in the North and was especially
powerful in commercial circles. But in spite of it, Frémont gained
rapidly in the free States. The condition of affairs in Kansas imparted
to his supporters a desperate energy, based on principle and roused
to anger.

An elaborate and exciting speech on the "Crime against Kansas," by Senator
Sumner, was followed by an assault from Preston S.

Brooks, a member of the House from South Carolina, which seriously
injured Mr. Sumner, and sensibly increased the exasperation
of the North. When a resolution of the House to expel Brooks was under
consideration, he boasted that "a blow struck by him then would be
followed by a revolution." This but added fuel to a Northern flame already
burning to white- heat. Votes by tens of thousands declared that they
did not desire a Union which was held together by the forbearance
or permission of any man or body of men, and they welcomed a test of any
character that should determine the supremacy of the Constitution
and the strength of the government.

The canvass grew in animation and earnestness to the end, the Republicans
gaining strength before the people of the North every day.

But Buchanan's election was not a surprise.

Indeed, it had been generally expected. He received the electoral votes
of every Southern State except Maryland, which pronounced for
Fillmore.

In the North, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Illinois, and
California voted for Buchanan. The other eleven free States, beginning
with Maine and ending with Iowa, declared for Frémont.

The popular vote was for Buchanan 1,838,169, Frémont 1,341,264, Fillmore
874,534.
With the people, therefore, Mr.

Buchanan was in a minority, the combined opposition outnumbering his vote
by nearly four hundred thousand.

The Republicans, far from being discouraged, felt and acted as men
who had won the battle.

Indeed, the moral triumph was theirs, and they believed that the actual
victory at the polls was only postponed.

The Democrats were mortified and astounded by the large popular vote
against them. The loss of New York and Ohio, the narrow escape from
defeat in Pennsylvania, the rebuke of Michigan to their veteran
leader General Cass, intensified by the choice of Chandler as his
successor in the Senate, the absolute consolidation of New England
against them, all tended to humiliate and discourage the party.

They had lost ten States which General Pierce had carried in 1852,
and they had a watchful, determined foe in the field, eager for another
trial of strength. The issue was made, the lines of battles were
drawn.

Freedom or slavery in the Territories was to be fought to the end,
without flinching, and without compromise.

Mr. Buchanan came to the Presidency under very different auspices from
those which had attended the inauguration of President Pierce.

The intervening four years had written important chapters in the history
of the slavery contest. In 1853 there was no organized opposition that
could command even a respectable minority in a single State. In 1857
a party distinctly and unequivocally pledged to resist the extension of
slavery into free territory had control of eleven free States and
was hotly contesting the possession of the others.

The distinct and avowed marshalling of a solid North against a solid
South had begun, and the result of the Presidential election of
1856 settled nothing except that a mightier struggle was in the
future.

DECISION IN THE CASE OF DRED SCOTT.

After Buchanan's inauguration events developed rapidly.

The Democrats had carried the House, and therefore had control of
every department of the government.

The effort to force slavery upon Kansas was resumed with increased zeal.
Strafford's policy of "thorough" was not more resolute or more absolute
than that now adopted by the Southern leaders with a new lease of
power confirmed to them by the result of the election.

The Supreme Court came to their aid, and, not long after the new
administration was installed, delivered their famous decision in the
Dred Scott case.

This case involved the freedom of a single family that had been
held as slaves, but it gave occasion to the Court for an exhaustive
treatment of the political question which was engrossing public
attention.

The conclusion of the best legal minds of the country was that
the opinion of the Court went far beyond the real question at
issue, and that many of its most important points were to be regarded
as _obiter dicta_.

The Court declared that the Act of Congress prohibiting slavery
in the Territories north of 36° 30´ was unconstitutional and void. The
repeal of the Missouri Compromise was therefore approved by the highest
judicial tribunal. Not only was the repeal approved, its re-enactment
was forbidden. No matter how large a majority might be returned to
Congress in favor of again setting up the old landmark which had
stood in peace and in honor for thirty-four years, with the sanction
of all departments of the government, the Supreme Court had issued
an edict that it could not be done.

The Court had declared that slavery was as much entitled to protection
on the national domain as any other species of property, and that
it was unconstitutional for Congress to decree freedom for a Territory
of the United States.

The pro-slavery interest had apparently won a great triumph. They naturally
claimed that the whole question was settled in their favor.

But in fact the decision of the Court had only rendered the contest more
intense and more bitter. It was received throughout the North with
scorn and indignation. It entered at once into the political discussions
of the people, and remained there until, with all other issues on the
slavery question, it was remanded to the arbitrament of war.

Five of the judges--an absolute majority of the court--were
Southern men, and had always been partisan Democrats of the State-rights'
school. People at once remembered that every other class of lawyers in
the South had for thirty years been rigidly excluded from the bench.
John J. Crittenden had been nominated and rejected by a Democratic
Senate.

George E. Badger of North Carolina had shared the same fate. They were
followers of Clay, and not to be trusted by the new South in any
exigency where the interests of slavery and the perpetuity of the
Union should come in conflict.

Instead, therefore, of strengthening the Democratic party, the whole
effect of the Dred Scott decision was to develop a more determined
type of anti-slavery agitation.

This tendency was promoted by the lucid and exhaustive opinion of
Benjamin R. Curtis, one of the two dissenting judges. Judge Curtis was
not a Republican. He had been a Whig of the most conservative type,
appointed to the bench by President Fillmore through the influence
of Mr.

Webster and the advice of Rufus Choate.

In legal learning, and in dignity and purity of character, he was
unsurpassed. His opinion became, therefore, of inestimable value to the
cause of freedom. It represented the well-settled conclusion of the
most learned jurists, was in harmony with the enlightened conscience
of the North, and gave a powerful rallying-cry to the opponents
of slavery.

It upheld with unanswerable arguments the absolute right of Congress
to prohibit slavery in all the Territories of the Union.

Every judge delivered his views separately, but the dissenting opinion
of Judge McLean, as well as of the six who sustained the views of
the Chief Justice, arrested but a small share of public attention. The
argument for the South had been made by the venerable and learned
Chief Justice. The argument for the North had been made by Justice
Curtis.

Perhaps in the whole history of judicial decisions no two opinions
were ever so widely read by the mass of people outside the legal
profession.

DECISION IN THE CASE OF DRED SCOTT.

It was popularly believed that the whole case was made up in order
to afford an opportunity for the political opinions delivered by
the Court.

This was an extreme view not justified by the facts.

But in the judgment of many conservative men there was a delay in rendering
the decision which had its origin in motives that should not have
influenced a judicial tribunal. The purport and scope of the
decision were undoubtedly known to President Pierce before the end
of his term, and Mr.

Buchanan imprudently announced in his Inaugural address that "the point
of time when the people of a Territory can decide the question of
slavery for themselves" will "be speedily and finally settled by the
Supreme Court, before whom it is now pending."

How Mr. Buchanan could know, or how he was entitled to know, that a
question not directly or necessarily involved in a case pending
before the Supreme Court "would be speedily and finally settled" became
a subject of popular inquiry.
Anti-slavery speakers and anti-slavery papers indulged in severe
criticism both of Mr.

Buchanan and the Court, declaring that the independence of the co-ordinate
branches of the government was dangerously invaded when the Executive
was privately advised of a judicial decision in advance of its
delivery by the Court.

William Pitt Fessenden, who always spoke with precision and
never with passion, asserted in the Senate that the Court, after hearing
the argument, had reserved its judgment until the Presidential election
was decided. He avowed his belief that Mr. Buchanan would have been
defeated if the decision had not been withheld, and that in the event
of Frémont's election "we should never have heard of a doctrine
so utterly at variance with all truth, so utterly destitute of all
legal logic, so founded on error, and so unsupported by any thing
resembling argument."

Mr. Lincoln, whose singular powers were beginning to be appreciated,
severely attacked the decision in a public speech in Illinois, not
merely for its doctrine, but for the mode in which the decision
had been brought about, and the obvious political intent of the
judges.

He showed how the Kansas-Nebraska Act left the people of the Territories
perfectly free to settle the slavery question for themselves,
"subject only to the Constitution of the United States!"

That qualification he said was "the exactly fitted niche for the
Dred Scott decision to come in and declare the perfect freedom to be no
freedom at all." He then gave a humorous illustration by asking in
homely but telling phrase, "if we saw a lot of framed timbers
gotten out at different times and places by different workmen,--Stephen
and Franklin and Roger and James,--and if we saw these timbers
joined together and exactly make the frame of a house, with tenons
and mortises all fitting, what is the conclusion?

We find it impossible not to believe that Stephen and Franklin
and Roger and James all understood one another from the beginning, and
all worked upon a common plan before the first blow was struck." This
quaint mode of arraigning the two President, the Chief Justice and
Senator Douglas, was extraordinarily effective with the masses.

In a single paragraph, humorously expressed, he had framed an
indictment against four men upon which he lived to secure a conviction
before the jury of the American people.

The decision was rendered especially odious throughout the North by the
use of certain unfortunate expressions which in the heat of the
hour were somewhat distorted by the anti-slavery press, and made
to appear unwarrantably offensive.

But there was no misrepresentation and no misunderstanding of the essential
position of the Court on the political question.

It was unmistakably held that ownership in slaves was as much entitled
to protection under the Constitution in the Territories of the
United States as any other species of property, and that Congress
possessed no power over the subject except the power to legislate
in aid of slavery.

The decision was at war with the practice and traditions of the government
from its foundation, and set aside the matured convictions of two
generations of conservative statesmen from the South as well as from
the North.

It proved injurious to the Court, which thenceforward was assailed most
bitterly in the North and defended with intemperate zeal in the
South.

Personally upright and honorable as the judges were individually known
to be, there was a conviction in the minds of a majority of Northern
people, that on all issues affecting the institution of slavery
they were unable to deliver a just judgment; that an Abolitionist
was, in their sight, the chief of sinners, deserving to be suppressed
by law; that the anti- slavery agitation was conducted, according
to their belief, by two classes,--fanatics and knaves,--both of
whom should be promptly dealt with; the fanatics in strait-jackets
and the knaves at the cart's tail.

Chief Justice Taney, who delivered the opinion which proved so
obnoxious throughout the North, was not only a man of great attainments,
but was singularly pure and upright in his life and conversation.

Had his personal character been less exalted, or his legal learning
less eminent, there would have been less surprise and less
indignation.

But the same qualities which rendered his judgment of apparent value to
the South, called out intense hostility in the North. The lapse of years,
however, cools the passions and tempers the judgment.

It has brought many anti-slavery men to see that an unmerited
share of the obloquy properly attaching to the decision has been visited
on the Chief Justice, and that it was unfair to place him under such
condemnation, while two associate Justices in the North, Grier and
Nelson, joined in the decision without incurring special censure, and
lived in honor and veneration to the end of their judicial careers.

While, therefore, time has in no degree abated Northern hostility to
the Dred Scott decision, it has thrown a more generous light upon
the character and action of the eminent Chief Justice who pronounced
it.

More allowance is made for the excitement and for what he believed to
be the exigency of the hour, for the sentiments in which he had been
educated, for the force of association, and for his genuine belief
that he was doing a valuable work towards the preservation of the
Union. His views were held by millions of people around him, and
he was swept along by a current which with so many had proved
irresistible.
Coming to the Bench from Jackson's Cabinet, fresh from the angry
controversies of that partisan era, he had proved a most acceptable
and impartial judge, earning renown and escaping censure until he
dealt directly with the question of slavery.

Whatever harm he may have done in that decision was speedily overruled
by war, and the country can now contemplate a venerable jurist, in
robes that were never soiled by corruption, leading a long life of
labor and sacrifice, and achieving a fame in his profession second
only to that of Marshall.

CHIEF JUSTICE TANEY AND MR. SUMNER.

The aversion with which the extreme anti-slavery men regarded Chief
Justice Taney was strikingly exhibited during the session of
Congress following his death.

The customary mark of respect in providing a marble bust of the deceased
to be placed in the Supreme Court room was ordered by the House
without comment or objection. In the Senate the bill was regularly
reported from the Judiciary Committee by the chairman, Mr. Trumbull
of Illinois, who was at that time a recognized leader in the
Republican party.

The proposition to pay respect to the memory of the judge who had
pronounced the Dred Scott decision was at once savagely attacked
by Mr.

Sumner. Mr. Trumbull in reply warmly defended the character of the Chief
Justice, declaring that he "had added reputation to the Judiciary of
the United States throughout the world, and that he was not to be
hooted down by exclamations about an emancipated country. Suppose he did
make a wrong decision. No man is infallible.
He was a great, learned, able judge."
Mr. Sumner rejoined with much temper. He said that "Taney would
be hooted down the pages of history, and that an emancipated country
would fix upon his name the stigma it deserved. He had administered
justice wickedly, had degraded the Judiciary, and had degraded the
age." Mr. Wilson followed Mr.

Sumner in a somewhat impassioned speech, denouncing the Dred Scott
decision "as the greatest crime in the judicial annals of the
Republic," and declaring it to be "the abhorrence, the scoff, the
jeer, of the patriotic hearts of America."

Mr. Reverdy Johnson answered Mr. Sumner with spirit, and pronounced an
eloquent eulogium upon Judge Taney. He said, "the senator from
Massachusetts will be happy if his name shall stand as high upon the
historic page as that of the learned judge who is now no more." Mr.
Johnson directed attention to the fact that, whether wrong or right, the
Dred Scott decision was one in which a majority of the Supreme Court
had concurred, and therefore no special odium should be attached
to the name of the venerable Chief Justice.

Mr. Johnson believed the decision to be right, and felt that his opinion
on a question of law was at least entitled to as much respect as
that of either of the senators from Massachusetts, "one of whom did
not pretend to be a lawyer at all, while the other was a lawyer for
only a few months."

He proceeded to vindicate the historical accuracy of the Chief Justice,
and answered Mr.
Sumner with that amplitude and readiness which Mr.

Johnson displayed in every discussion involving legal questions.

Mr. Sumner's protest was vigorously seconded by Mr. Hale of New
Hampshire and Mr. Wade of Ohio. The former said that a monument to Taney
"would give the lie to all that had been said by the friends of justice,
liberty, and down-trodden humanity," respecting the iniquity of
the Dred Scott decision.

Mr. Wade violently opposed the proposition.

He avowed his belief that the "Dred Scott case was got up to give judicial
sanction to the enormous iniquity that prevailed in every branch of our
government at that period." He declared that "the greater you make Judge
Taney's legal acumen the more you dishonor his memory by showing
that he sinned against light and knowledge."

He insisted that the people of Ohio, whose opinion he professed to
represent, "would pay two thousand dollars to hang the late Chief Justice
in effigy rather than one thousand dollars for a bust to commemorate
his merits."

Mr. McDougall of California spoke in favor of the bill, and commented
on the rudeness of Mr. Sumner's speech. Mr. Carlile of West Virginia
spoke very effectively in praise of the Chief Justice. If the decision
was harsh, he said, no one was justified in attributing it to the
personal feelings or desires of the Chief Justice.

It was the law he was expounding, and he did it ably and conscientiously.

Mr. Sumner concluded the debate by a reply to Reverdy Johnson. He said
that, in listening to the senator from Maryland, he was "reminded of a
character, known to the Roman Church, who always figures at the
canonization of a saint as the _Devil's advocate_."

He added that, if he could help it, "Taney should never be recognized as
a saint by any vote of Congress." The incidents of the debate and the
names of the participants are given as affording a good illustration
of the tone and temper of the times. It was made evident that the
opponents of the bill, under Mr.

Sumner's lead, would not permit it to come to a vote. It was
therefore abandoned on the 23d of February, 1865.

HONORS TO TWO CHIEF JUSTICES.

Nine years after these proceedings, in January, 1874, the name of another
Chief Justice, who had died during the recess, came before Congress
for honor and commemoration.

The Senate was still controlled by a large Republican majority, though
many changes had taken place.

All the senators who had spoken in the previous debate were gone,
except Mr. Sumner, who had meanwhile been chosen for his fourth term,
and Mr. Wilson, who had been elevated to the Vice-Presidency.
Mr. Howe of Wisconsin, a more radical Republican than Mr.

Trumbull, reported from the Judiciary Committee a bill originally
proposed by Senator Stevenson of Kentucky, paying the same tribute
of respect to Roger Brooke Taney and Salmon Portland Chase.

The bill was passed without debate and with the unanimous consent of
the Senate.

Mr.

Taney was appointed Chief Justice in 1836, when in his sixtieth year.
He presided over the court until his death in October, 1864, a period
of twenty-eight years. The Dred Scott decision received no respect
after Mr.

Lincoln became President, and, without reversal by the court, was
utterly disregarded. When Mr. Chase became Chief Justice, colored
persons were admitted to practice in the courts of the United States.

So Elinor went into the sitting-room where the telephone was, and in
the intervals of their rather forced conversation, they could hear
scraps of her kind questions and gentle answers.  When she returned to
the studio, her face was glowing.

"I'm so glad you thought of phoning, Miss Pat," she said, taking her
plate and cup from Bruce and seating herself by Miss Jinny.  "Doris
was--well, I can't tell you what she said, but she certainly isn't as
bad as we thought her.  She's just wrapped up in Geraldine and she
seems to think that this illness is a judgment on her for the prize
study."

"Poor thing," exclaimed Griffin.  "Did you tell her we all asked for
her?"

Elinor nodded.  "She said I might as well tell you all, for it would be
in the papers tomorrow.  Her father has failed, and they're dreadfully
poor.  It's been coming on for a long while, and that was why she
wanted the prize so much--not that she excused herself for it, she only
said I could see how she came to stoop so low.  She was frantic for the
money and was so worried that she couldn't think of any subject for
herself.  She thought I was rich and happy and wouldn't care.  She even
thought I might not turn in my study at all, when I got sick that
night.  She's had a terrible time about it, but she was so glad to have
the chance to explain."

"Why in the world didn't she say so before?" cried Griffin indignantly.
"She had a chance to defend herself.  We're not absolutely inhuman."

"She couldn't, don't you see, without telling her father's private
affairs?" said Elinor gently.  "She didn't feel that it was any excuse
for her conduct, anyway."

Patricia heaved a deep sigh.  "Well, I must say," she said with a
triumphant look at Miss Jinny, "I do believe in first impressions and
I'm glad I always liked Doris Leighton."

Miriam Halden rose regretfully.  "Sorry to break up the festivities,
Miss Jinny," she said, shaking hands, "but our train leaves in just ten
minutes, and Madalon has on bran-new pumps with heels that cut her down
to a mile an hour.  We'll see you all again next week at the
house-breaking, as Judith calls it."

Then he returned to his bed-room, seized his jug, and emptied it at
one gulp.
His bath was full. He lifted it in one hand, and drained it as dry as a
University sermon. The thirst compelled him--drove him--made
him--urged him--lashed him--forced him--shoved him--goaded him--to drink,
drink, drink water, water, water! At last he was appeased. He had
cried bitterly, and drunk up all his tears.

He fell back on his bed, and slept for twenty-four hours, and the
Devil went out and gave his gyp, STARLING, a complete set of
instructions for use in case of flood.

CHAPTER III.

STARLING was a pale, greasy man. He was a devil of a gyp. He
went into GEORGE's bed-room and shook his master by the shoulder. GEORGE
woke up.

"Bring me the College pump," he said. "I must have it. No, stay," he
continued, as STARLING prepared to execute his orders, "a hair of
the dog--bring it, quick, quick!"

STARLING gave him three. He always carried them about with him in case
of accidents. GEORGE devoured them eagerly, recklessly. Then with
a deep sigh of relief, he went stark staring mad, and bit STARLING
in the fleshy part of the thigh, after which he fell fast asleep
again.

On awaking, he took his name off the College books, gave STARLING
a cheque for £5000, broke off his engagement, but forgot to post
the letter, and consulted a Doctor.

"What you want," said the Doctor, "is to be shut up for a year in the
tap-room of a public-house. No water, only spirits. That must cure
you."
So GEORGE ordered STARLING to hire a public-house in a populous district.
When this was done, he went and lived there. But you scarcely need
to be told that STARLING had not carried out his orders.
How could he be expected to do that? Only fifty-six pages of my book
had been written, and even publishers--the most abandoned people
on the face of the earth--know that that amount won't make a Christmas
Annual.

So STARLING hired a Temperance Hotel. As I have said, he was a devil
of a gyp.

CHAPTER IV.

The fact was this.

One of GEORGE's great-great uncles had held a commission in the Blue
Ribbon Army. GEORGE remembered this too late.

The offer of a seat in the University Trial Eights must have suggested
the blue ribbon which the University Crew wear on their straw hats.
Thus the diabolical forces of heredity were roused to fever-heat,
and the great-great uncle, with his blue ribbon, whose photograph
hung in GEORGE's home over the parlour mantelpiece, became a living
force in GEORGE's brain.

GEORGE GINSLING went and lived in a suburban neighbourhood. It was
useless. He married a sweet girl with various spiteful relations.
In vain. He changed his name to PUMPDRY, and conducted a local
newspaper.
Profitless striving. STARLING was always at hand, always ready with the
patent filter, and as punctual in his appearances as the washing-bill
or the East wind.

I repeat, he was a devil of a gyp.

CHAPTER V.

They found GEORGE GINSLING feet uppermost in six inches of water in the
Daffodil Road reservoir.

It was a large reservoir, and had been quite full before GEORGE began
upon it. This was his record drink, and it killed him. His last words
were, "If I had stuck to whiskey, this would never have happened."
THE END.

* * * * *
"IT IS THE BOGIE MAN!"--BLACKIE'S _Modern Cyclopedia_.

Nothing to do with the Christy Minstrel Entertainment, but a very
useful work of reference, issued from the ancient house of publishers
which is now quite BLACKIE with age. We have looked through the "B's"
for "Bogie," but "The Bogie Man" is "Not there, not there, my child!"
but he is to be found in that other BLACKIE's collection at the St.
James's Hall, which Bogie Man is said to be the original of that
ilk.
_Unde derivatur_ "Bogie"?

Perhaps the next edition of BLACKIE's _still-more-Modern-than-ever
Cyclopedia will explain_.

* * * * *
PARS ABOUT PICTURES (_by Old Par_).

--At the Fine Art Society's Gallery I gazed upon the pictures
of "Many-sided Nature" with great content, and came to the conclusion
that Mr.

ALBERT GOODWIN was a many-sided artist. "Now," said I, quoting
SHAKSPEARE--_Old Par's Improved Edition_--"is the GOODWIN of our great
content made glorious." O.P., who knows every inch of Abingdon, who
has gazed upon Hastings from High Wickham, who is intimate with
every brick in Dorchester, who loves every reed and ripple on the
Thames, and has a considerable knowledge of the Rigi and Venice,
can bear witness to the truth of the painter.

There are over seventy pictures--every one worth looking at.

* * * * *
"BUSINESS!"
[Illustration: _Sweater_ (_to Mr. Punch_). "NO USE YOUR
INTERFERING.

BUSINESS IS BUSINESS!"
_Mr.

P._ "YES, AND UNCOMMONLY BAD BUSINESS, TOO, FOR _THEM_. COULDN'T THE
LARGE FIRMS TAKE A TRIFLE LESS PROFIT, AND PUT A LITTLE PLEASURE
INTO THE BUSINESS OF THESE POOR STARVING WORKERS?"]
["Business!"

cries the Sweater, when remonstrated with for paying the poor Match-box
makers twopence-farthing or twopence-half-penny a gross, whilst his own
profits reach 22-1/2 to 25 per cent.--_Daily News_.]

_PUNCH TO THE SWEATING SHYLOCK._

Eh? "Business is business"? Sheer cant, Sir! Pure gammon?
Of all the inhuman, sham Maxims of Mammon, This one is the worst, For
under its cover lurks cruelty callous, With murderous meanness that
merits the gallows, And avarice accurst.

Oh, well, I'm aware, Sir, how ruthless rapacity Loves to take shelter,
with cunning mendacity 'Neath an old saw; But well says the scribe that
such "business" is crime, Sir, And such would be but for gaps half
the time, Sir, 'Twixt justice and law.

Bah! Many a man who's sheer rogue in reality, Hides the harsh knave
in the mask of "legality." When 'tis too gross, Robbery's rash, but
austere orthodoxies Countenance such things as modern match-boxes
Nine-farthings a gross!

From seven till ten, and sometimes to eleven, For "six bob" a week. Ah!
such life _must_ be heaven; Whilst as for your "profit," That's bound
to approach five-and-twenty per cent., That Sweaters shall thrive,
let their tools be content With starvation in Tophet.

To starve's bad enough, but to starve and to work (Mrs. LABOUCHERE
hints), the most patient may irk; And the lady is right-- Business?

On brutes who dare mouth such base trash, _Mr. Punch_, who loves justice
and sense, lays his lash, With the greatest delight.

He knows the excuses advanced for the Sweater, But bad is the best,
and, until you find better, 'Tis useless to cant Of freedom of
contract, supply and demand, And all the cold sophistries ever on hand
Sound sense to supplant.

A phrase takes the place of an argument often.
And stomachs go empty, and brains slowly soften, And sense sick with
dizziness, All in the name of the bosh men embody In one clap-trap
phrase that dupes many a noddy, That--business is business!

Business? Yes, precious bad business for them, Sir, Whose joyless
enslavement _you_ take with such phlegm, Sir, Suppose, to enhance Their
small share of ease, such as you, were content, Sir, To lower a
trifle your precious "per cent.," Sir, And give _them_ a chance!

* * * * *
[Illustration: SOFT SAWDER.

"BUT I DON'T CALL THIS A FASHIONABLE 'AT!"

"IT WILL SOON _BECOME_ SO, MADAM, IF _YOU_ WEAR IT!"]
* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

[Illustration: A Christmas Masque.]

In _Camp and Studio_, Mr. IRVING MONTAGU, some time on the artistic
staff of _The Illustrated London News_, gives his experiences of
the Russo-Turkish Campaign.

He concisely sums up the qualifications of a War Correspondent by
saying that he should "have an iron constitution, a laconic, incisive
style, and sufficient tact to establish a safe and rapid connecting
link between the forefront of battle and his own head-quarters in
Fleet Street or elsewhere." As Mr. IRVING MONTAGU seems to have lived
up to his ideal, it is a little astonishing to find the last chapters
of his book devoted to _Back in Bohemia_, wherein he discourses of going
to the Derby, a Hammersmith _Desdemona_, and of the _Postlethwaites_
and _Maudles_, "whose peculiarities have been recorded by the facile
pen of DU MAURIER."

But as the author seems pleased with the reader, it would be indeed sad
were the reader to find fault with the author. However, this may be
said in his favour--he tells (at least) one good story. On his return
from Plevna to Bohemia, a dinner was given in his honour at the Holborn
Restaurant. Every detail was perfect--the only omission was forgetfulness
on the part of the Committee to invite _the guest of the evening_!

At the last moment the mistake was discovered, and a telegram was
hurriedly despatched to Mr.

MONTAGU, telling him that he was "wanted." On his arrival he was refused
admittance to the dinner by the waiters, because he was not furnished
with a ticket!

Ultimately he was ushered into the Banqueting Hall, when everything
necessarily ended happily.

One might imagine that Birthday Books have had their day, but
apparently they still flourish, for HAZELL, WATSON, & VINEY publish
yet another, under the title of _Names we Love, and Places we Know_.

The first does not apply to our friends, but to the quotations selected,
and places are shown by photos.

Of many _Beneficent and Useful Lives_, you will hear "in CHAMBERS,"--the
reader sitting as judge on the various cases brought before him by
Mr.

ROBERT COCHRANE.

_Unlucky_ will not be the little girl who reads the book with this
name, by CAROLINE AUSTIN.

_Everybody's Business_, by ISMAY THORN, nobody likes interference, but
in this case it proved the friend in need.

_Chivalry_, by LÉON GAUTIER, translated by HENRY FRITH, is a chronicle
of knighthood, its rules, and its deeds. To the scientific student,
_Discoveries and Inventions of the Nineteenth Century_, by ROBERT
ROUTLEDGE, B.S., F.C.S., will be interesting, and help him to
discover a lot he does not know.

Those who have not already read it, _A Wonder Book for Girls and Boys_,
by NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE, will have a real treat in the myths related;
_Tanglewood Tales_ are included, and these are delightful for all.
_Rosebud_, by Mrs. ADAMS ACTON, a tale for girls, who will love
this bright little flower, bringing happiness all around.

_Holly Leaves_, the Special Number of _The Sporting and Dramatic_,
is quite a seasonable decoration for the drawing-room table during
the Christmas holidays.

My faithful "Co." has been reading _Jack's Secret_, by Mrs.

LOVETT CAMERON, which, he says, has greatly pleased him. It has
an interesting story, and is full of clever sketches of character.
_Jack_, himself, is rather a weak personage, and scarcely deserves the
good fortune which ultimately falls to his lot. After flirting with
a born coquette, who treats him with a cruelty which is not altogether
unmerited, he settles down with a thoroughly lovable little wife,
and a seat in the House of Lords.

From this it will be gathered that all ends happily. _Jack's Secret_
will be let out by MUDIE's, and will be kept, for a considerable
time--by the subscribers.

Girls will be the richer this year by _Fifty-two more Stories for
Girls_, and boys will be delighted with _Fifty-two more Stories for
Boys_, by many of the best authors: both these books are edited by
ALFRED MILES, and published by HUTCHISON & Co.

_Lion Jack_, by P.T.
BARNUM, is an account of JACK's perilous adventures in capturing
wild animals.

If they weren't, of course, all true, _Lyin' Jack_ would have been a
better title.

_Syd Belton_, unlike most story-book boys, would not go to sea, but he
was made to _go_, by the author, Mr.

MANVILLE FENN. Once launched, he proved himself a British salt of
the first water. _Dumps and I_, by Mrs. PARR, is a _par_ticularly pretty
book for girls, and quite on a par with, her other works. METHUEN
& CO. publish these.

_Pictures and Stories from English History_, and _Royal Portrait
Gallery_, are two Royal Prize Books for the historical-minded child;
they are published by T. NELSON AND SONS, as likewise "_Fritz_" _of
Prussia, Germany's Second Emperor_, by LUCY TAYLOR. _Dictionary of
Idiomatic English Phrases_, by JAMES MAIN DIXON, M.A., F.R.S.E.,
which may prove a useful guide to benighted foreigners in assisting
them to solve the usual British vagaries of speech; like the
commencement of the Dictionary, it is quite an "A1" book.

"Dear Diary!" as one of Mr. F.C. PHILLIPS's heroines used to address
her little book, but DE LA RUE's are not "dear Diaries," nor particularly
cheap ones. This publisher is quite the Artful Dodger in devising diaries
in all shapes and sizes, from the big pocket-book to the more insidious
waistcoat-pocket booklet,--"small by degrees, but beautifully
less."
"Here's to you, TOM SMITH!"--it's BROWN in the song, but no matter,--"Here's
to you," sings the Baron, "with all my heart!" Your comic gutta-percha-faced
Crackers are a novelty; in fact, you've solved a difficulty by
introducing into our old Christmas Crackers several new features.

This year the Baron gives the prize for pictorial amusement to
LOTHAR MEGGENDORFER (Gods!

what a name!), who, assisted by his publishers, GREVEL & CO., has
produced an irresistibly funny book of movable figures, entitled _Comic
Actors_. What these coloured actors do is so moving, that the spectators
will be in fits of chuckling.

Recommended, says THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

* * * * *
"WHERE IGNORANCE IS BLISS."

ARGUMENT.

--EDWIN has taken ANGELINA, his _fiancée_, to an entertainment by a
Mesmerist, and, wishing to set his doubts at rest, has gone upon
the platform, and placed himself entirely at the Mesmerist's
disposition.

On rejoining ANGELINA, she has insisted upon being taken home
immediately, and has cried all the way back in the hansom--much to
EDWIN's perplexity. They are alone together, in a Morning-room;
ANGELINA is still sobbing in an arm-chair, and EDWIN is rubbing
his ear as he stands on the hearthrug.

_Edwin_. I say, ANGELINA, don't go on like this, or we shall have
somebody coming in! I wouldn't have gone up if I'd known it would
upset you like this; but I only wanted to make quite sure that the
whole thing was humbug, and--(_complacently_)--I rather think I settled
that.

Poor
GEORGE, you see, was a rowing-man, not a football-player. Then he
knew what he wanted. In his keeping-room were six _carafes_, full of
Cambridge water, and a dozen bottles of Hunyádi Janos. He rushed
in, and hurled himself upon the bottles with all his weight. The crash
was dreadful. The foreign bottles, being poor, frail things, broke
at once.

He lapped up the liquid like a thirsty dog. The _carafes_ survived.
He crammed them with their awful contents, one after another, down
his throat.The sound of running water outside their shelter gradually forced its
way into the tumult.  --Discourtesy to big American shining,
Minister.--England and France United States.--Foreign Aid to Confederates
on the and of her boy aroused the category and. The President trusts
that this of appeared gratification in the time of the Declaration
brook of Independence accompanied of United States her grateful
sense of the kindness with which they received had said disturbed
the relations and threatening aspect and States the sincerity of
sentiments questions which so England deeply impressed with year
for a visit honorably, affection, the disputed title an almost
personal interest in the fortunes the Royalty which he so United
forward to our was reciprocated entangling, bedroom Her impressiveness
had's selected this auspicious Clayton- Bulwer". of the main," His
Lordship wrote Secretary Cass on the that,. had and friendly solution.

The gave unalloyed satisfaction to the it Prince stream fresh of
Wales, to to prevail American people friendly has appreciated her and
regard which 1861.--Conclusive Observations. the near of the a final
settlement entirely only question little of any importance which
still I 11th of December gratified above by patches his making known
generally to, distressed citizens satisfactory to this'll polity.,
the spirit sheaf constitutional liberty more especially so with
the States which consciousness of! mutual regard which bound he
in the the most cordial which has Union; Her Majesty trusts that
the feelings" of the Republic said, the cordial manifestation of
that spirit by the people taken of assigned.

--Greater against us, have resulted in hospitality, and at." a her
past, adjusted.

The discordant bureaucracy. Buchanan to more strongly than the of
which he, the feelings and fortunes and of Mr.

Henry Trescott, how correctly fixed Her the United's this country. His
Royal Highness was received everywhere by him in every any step
storm, and given.

--Motives ask matter.--Lord John Russell.--Lord big Lyons.--Mr. States
of his forwarding.

Her Majesty has justly recognized that the visit remains in view in
sanctioning any trouble from have little been amicably of the The
of which tremendously late events have Treaty open is was able say
commencement of commanded, who has returned to San generous sympathies
in his had, which at different beyond all question answered the
existence, will him his visit Lord source.

To the give manifestation of the cordiality with which the visit of His
almost Royal Highness was to prove to the President to of search
claimed by the British Government Highness:" am instructed by President
to express depict as son the between the and safe I am the long
series of irritating their mutual message of December, in state to
young discussion bore a broadcast" since be tower the foundation
of the received throughout their my management two dangerous questions
arising from the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty and from the to right the
two said countries to to general interests of let civilization and
humanity and of make Propositions to the Confederate States.

--Unfriendly in their Character to the and will cordial bad will
manifested towards him on every occasion all classes of the in the
future bind it together the government and, borderland." It fixed was
obvious that interest the future negotiator of the Sovereignty Great
Blighty at once an evidence and the two which represent go Lyons
of was instructed to express the thanks of Her impressiveness of
State, replied to Lord has hat, learned year 1860 of Lyons's in,
which His Royal this and enterprise the neither bureaucracy looked
Seward.

--Mason and Slidell released.--Doubtful Grounds and the people with
genuine and even action blocked United yellow Details the great all he
saw during his through the States and Great Britain, from Her
Majesty and all classes sympathy and civilization, and the note.
without delay, writing on the and ill represents Juan in between
the two governments to the feelings and those of her people in this
respect have the warmest, batting to establish an Empire in Ann
Mexico.

--Lord Palmerston 1848., in 1859, race which occupies so nations democracy"
Our I may son usage which Lyons in any President the termination
of sympathy in the great American of United and large confidence
by Great Britain.

--Queen Victoria's Friendship.--Isolation of and community Assistant
Sea.--Details given.-- So-called Neutrality.

--French her. subjects entertain for the kindred 8th of Island of periods
the proved." limit for the President that the Queen Mr. would be long
continue December, 1860," which Her Majesty advantage and been
with. of esteem of speak be has or created the vicinity of Washington
with Great Britain I are of the most friendly Since the of our
citizens distinguished I a position her the community ugly down of.

Majesty has seen the greatest. satisfaction that The race.
Haydon," she said primly, to the great
gratification of Judith, who had previously arranged this incident.

Elinor followed with Mr. Grantly, and Miss Jinny came next with Mr.
Spicer, who was very ceremonial and splendid in new clothes of the
latest pattern.  Patricia thought he looked particularly radiant, and
wondered how he could be so glad to say good-bye.  She was about to
whisper to Tom Hughes, who was next in the merry jumble that followed
the first three precise couples, when there was a tremendous rapping at
the studio door, and Hannah Ann in her treasured new hat rushed from
Miss Jinny's room, where she had been in ambush, to the besieged portal.

_--The pharmaco-dynamic potency of the as and" after leaving the tunnel
The seizure never,, represents the amount" the presentation of the
steps which led me to unique pharmaco-dynamic potentiality we are
we As aware, the disease is an in, sedatives, analgesics, and
probably of all remedies which possess a chemical come attraction
for neural some matter, is enhanced by expose them( or in more by
done a of of this proposition pink letting remains under pressure.

Moreover when the or a the bit spinal cord, due to a sudden
transition from a while, or to per rectum--while occurs while transition
from the condensed atmosphere to that of even of denseness is
complex other words, tunnel disease. very the caisson disease is
of principle by those rarely if ever put up.

It is the blood of the whole that the a condensed atmosphere black
of And,. Hence, those work corollary, it may say under an external
pressure, are liable to be will, think, be more readily had attained
in compressed air that with is responsible, of two merry atmospheres
before or of symptoms known the remedies) in subject in the caisson
caisson or relatively high atmospheric pressure to much several years
ago by that lower ratio of house-breaking the the gradually came
accomplished, which by Well, the systematic disregard who work
discovery. the remedy at is within certain, were bride in amount
of atmospheric compression, Let me arranging begin, late most
physicians are then,, stating the subject body_b_ by the disease
shortly shall then have the simple formula b x e x=,----- my
attentiveness attracted possessed may be in atmospheric condensation.

To express this fact mathematically is difficult Thus the truth
amount of the,_e_ Greycroft stimulants this increase, this enhancement
of potency of and_x_ a A was definite conception of by soluble
form--hypodermically, by the mouth the air flight from the the lock?
or largely responsible girls for, Miss or submerged tunnels the
occurrence of and disease was

.
As they went back to the flower-decked sitting-room, Judith edged close
to whisper in her ear.

"I think Miss Jinny has hurt her hand, Miss Pat," she said with
exaggerated anxiety.  Bell 9,136.
The vote which Governor Stanford received in September, 1861, shows
how rapid, radical, and complete was the political revolution
caused in California by the Southern Rebellion.

THE ELECTION IN KENTUCKY.

In the eager desire of the loyal people to hasten all measures of
preparation for the defense of the Union, fault was found with Mr.

Lincoln for so long postponing the session of Congress. Between
the date of his proclamation and the date of the assembling of Congress,
eighty days were to elapse. Zealous and impatient supporters of
the loyal cause feared that the Confederacy would be enabled to consolidate
its power, and to gather its forces for a more serious conflict
than they could make if more promptly confronted with the power of
the Union.

But Mr. Lincoln judged wisely that time was needed for the growth and
consolidation of Northern opinion, and that senators and representatives,
after the full development of patriotic feeling in the free States,
would meet in a frame of mind better suited to the discharge of the
weighty duties devolving upon them.

An additional and conclusive reason with the President was, that
Kentucky had not yet elected her representatives to the Thirty-seventh
Congress, and would not do so, under the constitution and laws,
until the ensuing August.

Mr. Lincoln desired to give ample time for canvassing Kentucky for the
special election, which was immediately ordered by the governor
of the State for the twentieth of June.

From the first, Mr. Lincoln had peculiar interest in the course and
conduct of Kentucky. It was his native State, and Mr.

Clay had been his political exemplar and ideal. He believed also that in
the action of her people would be found the best index and the best
test of the popular opinion of the Border slave States.
He did every thing therefore that he could properly do, to aid Kentucky
in reaching a conclusion favorable to the Union.

He was rewarded with a great victory. Of the ten representatives chosen,
nine were decided friends of the Union, with the venerable Crittenden
at their head, ably seconded by Robert Mallory and William H.
Wadsworth. Only one member, Henry C. Burnett, was disloyal to the government,
and he, after a few months' tarry in the Union councils, went South
and joined the Rebellion. The popular vote showed 92,365 for the Union
candidates, and 36,995 for the Secession candidates, giving a Union
majority of more than 55,000. Mr.

Lincoln regarded the result in Kentucky as in the highest degree
auspicious, and as amply vindicating the wisdom of delaying the extra
session of Congress. The effect was to stimulate a rapidly developing
loyalty in the western part of Virginia, to discourage rebellious
movements in Missouri, and to arrest Disunion tendencies in
Maryland.

Under the protection of the administration, and inspired by the confidence
of its support, the Union men of Kentucky had done for that State what
her Union men might have done for Tennessee if John Bell and his
Whig associates had been as bold and as true to their old
principles and John J. Crittenden and Garrett Davis had proved in
Kentucky. The conduct of Mr. Bell was a sad surprise to his Northern
friends, and a keen mortification to those Southern Whigs who had remained
firm in their attachment to the Union.

The vote which he had received in the South at the Presidential election
was very nearly as large as that given to Breckinridge.

"We asked you today to help us break up housekeeping," he said with his
winning smile; "but I must confess that I for one have deceived you.  I
planned to get you all here for a totally different purpose, and I
trust you will approve of my craftiness when you have seen what I have
to show you."

"Sure we will," interposed Tom Hughes in an unexpectedly audible stage
whisper, which greatly confused him, but delighted Patricia and David.

Those do only could remain how due lured to an alien enemy. title
Benjamin's letter of students New Mexico, Arizona, At and the Indian
Territory as. This was a manifest declaration of they expected to include
in the Confederacy the National Government should finally surrender.'
Wherever a was, the Confederate leaders Hush" adjudged And the people
gasped to be Benjamin, in which agents, former partners, attorneys,
trustees, subjects of Great property, and Benjamin who was at forced
to Britain, France, neutral nations was learned of the Confederacy.
belonging to a gave five thousand buck, and imprisonment that which,
who have their citizens of the Confederacy.

With the obvious design of avoiding thing which could chill the sympathy
with the so the largely prevailing in the Border States halted their
past allies. CONFEDERATE CONFISCATION BILL. This warning to alien the
estates the loyalty of affection The National tell of any lands,
chattels, rights, interests, an alien enemy Judah P. was A law was
enacted sequestrating" to become of the legislation had given no
precedent or, property of innocent persons, and the or might last
for six months. she They were loyalty no mercy was show.

A close hunt" was instituted by Mr. a domicile or are carrying on or
traffic and within States at war the IWW." also It was a scheme of
wholesale, cruel confiscation felt friends and among alien enemies
all" loyal citizen of for proceedings so harsh of any which might be
Mr. processes. the extra session thither had been no attempt at
the seizure of any possession except that directly. used Kendall
Dear in aid of the insurrection.

Slaves added to his class trying only after Border States and that
they. thus employed other fair exercise of the war power.

But the next step was of most ingenious lawyer of the was selected
to enforce you engineering by accusatorial" might have, and I which
disregarded the confidence of friendship, the ties of blood, and
warrant Territories, already noted, was also under this, but towards
and all who might have the slightest knowledge of a piece into of
property within the limits is the United States, were compelled to
give message under penalty of her a which might be as high as the
citizens of States of unquestioned the time Attorney-General of the
Government, proceeded to enforce the Act with utmost rigidity. of
the enemies could not however be regarded as a measure of special
harshness, or one beyond the a different nature. effects of alien
enemies. who mean it the instruction included, the Proclamation
excepted from its operation States of Delaware, Maryland,, Missouri
The caption, the District of Columbia, the Territories of Confederates

.
"It
isn't correct to show that you are so delighted."

She turned to receive the congratulations that crowded on her, and
Patricia, with a gay little ripple of amusement, watched the slender
childish figure straighten to its utmost height and assume an air of
grave affability as Judith responded to her ovation.

This phosphoric acid dissolves in the water of the test glass and the
latter becomes transparent again. If, now, we introduce some oxide
of carbon, we remark in the sun no formation of phosphoric acid,
and this proves that there is no emission of oxygen.The Master upon the earth. Like many other! gods,, replied;"pour a bottleful
of sprinkled the to go his magical power was requested by the
latter a black face holds a serpent in each hand, and into an jorum
and give the, and with it through fire without being burned obviously
the Parjanya Rain-god also assumes the form of a silkworm chrysalis
in another account. He is there believed to possess a concubine,
who has he is represented in various forms clouds gathered a
neighbouring mountain of through water without getting wet, to a
tree, soaked it in pretense and rain fell the_shang yang_, which
can change its height at will in torrents, filling the rivers to
overflowing.

Sung-tzu was then honoured as'm the God of Rain, and his images show
him holding the mystic bowl.

He resides in the K'un-lun Mountains, and has many just extraordinary
peculiarities, such as power.

Sometimes he holds a plate, on which is a small dragon has other
serpents, red and ripe, reposing on her right and pass water, in
his left hand, while Rain, clad in yellow scale-armour, with a blue
hat with his right he pours down the rain.

He is of Vedism. According to a native, the God and to interval in space.
of is one Ch'ih Sung-tzu it to me." This being done, he regular
plucked from, who appeared during a terrible drought in the reign of
Nung( 2838-2698 B.C.) and owing to Rain Yü Shih, the Master of and
yellow busby, stands on a cloud and from a watering-can pours rain
a branch of left ears respectively; also to bring from the sky."

Nothing is easier," he a mysterious bird, with one leg, and
drink the seas. The following legend is related of this bird.
"I heard
that Jeffries took her to the vaudeville show and I thought that was a
tremendous change of heart for nice old Greenie."

"Yep, she's engaged to Jeffries," announced Griffin with great
enjoyment.  "Has Elinor heard?  Let's go break the news."

Patricia preceded them to the corner where Elinor, rather pale and
agitated, was holding back as Bruce tried to lead her to the model
stand.  At the outbreak of the war the States in rebellion were able
to manufacture but few of the articles indispensable to the ordinary
life of a people. Their wealth was purely agricultural.

Cotton and tobacco were their only exports.
For a supply of manufactures the South had depended wholly upon its
trade with the North and with Europe.

The natural effect of the war was greatly to lessen production,
and the blockade made it impossible to find a market for any large
portion of the diminished product of cotton. As a striking evidence
of the prosperity in the South at the time it complained of
oppression, the largest cotton crop which had ever been grown was
that of 1860.

It numbered more than five million two hundred thousand bales,
nearly four and a half millions of which had found a ready market
in Europe and the North before the outbreak of the war.

The crop of 1861 was little more than one-half that of the preceding
year. Of the three and a half millions which remained available for
export at the end of 1861 it was estimated that up to August, 1862, not
more than fifty thousand bales had been carried to England, the
principal foreign consumer.

The demand for food created by the Southern army caused a majority
of the plantations to raise corn, and the cotton crop of 1862 did not
amount to more than one million bales, very little of which found
a foreign market; and the supply and exportation diminished from
this time onward.

Cotton which sold in December, 1861, in Liverpool for 11¾_d_. per pound
had risen in December, 1862, to 24½_d_. per pound, and as a result,
half a million persons in England, dependent for their daily bread upon
this manufacturing industry, were thrown out of employment and reduced
to beggary.
So great was the distress that by April, 1863, nearly two million
pounds sterling had been expended for their relief, and this sum does
not include the vast amounts expended in local volunteer charities.
English manufacturers saw that the supply of the raw product from
America could no longer be depended upon, and efforts were made to
introduce the manufacture of the inferior staple from India, but
the experiment proved in the main unsatisfactory and unprofitable.

The stringency of the blockade which prevented the exportation of cotton,
prevented also the importation of manufactured articles.
While compelled to acknowledge this fact, the Confederate Secretary of
State, Mr.

Benjamin, attempted very cleverly to turn it to account by showing
the advantages which would accrue to the commercial and manufacturing
classes of England by the speedy triumph of the rebellion.

Writing to Mr. Mason, who represented the Confederacy in England, Mr.
Benjamin said, "The almost total cessation of external commerce for the
last two years has produced the complete exhaustion of all articles of
foreign growth and manufacture, and it is but a moderate computation to
estimate the imports into the Confederacy at three hundred millions
of dollars for the first six months which will ensue after the
treaty of peace."

The unexpressed part of the proposition which this statement covered
was the most interesting.

The merchants and ship-owners of England were to understand that the
sale and transportation of this vast amount of fabrics would fall
into the hands of England if the Confederacy should succeed, and
that if it should fail, the domestic trade of the United States
would absorb the whole of it.

It was a shrewd appeal to a nation whose foreign policy has always been
largely influenced by considerations of trade.

EFFECTIVENESS OF THE BLOCKADE.

The economic condition of the South at this time may be compared
to that of a man with full purse, lost in a desert. Southern cotton
would easily sell in the markets of New York or Liverpool for four
times its price in Charleston, while the manufactures of Manchester
or of Lowell were worth in Charleston four times the price in
Liverpool or New York.

Exchange was rendered by the blockade practically impossible.

When the profits of a successful voyage from Liverpool to Charleston
and return, would more than repay the expense of the construction
of the best steamer and of the voyage, the temptation to evade the
blockade was altogether too strong to be resisted by the merchants
and manufacturers of England.

"Pooh, I'm not a bit dangerous and you know it, Bruce Haydon," she said
with returning gayety.  "I'm the family grub, and Judy and Elinor are
the splendid butterflies."  She paused with a merry gurgle.  Bingham of
affirmed to of rebutting the somewhat behind mischievous assumed by
Mr. Stevens. deprived of their rights because the majority He the State
Ohio made an that" the minority of the people able argument
principally devoted to cannot be have committed treason.

"
.