Her face and attitude had lost their languor. As the Duchess returned
his treasure to the old man she looked at Julie with joy. Not since her
illness had there been any such sign of warmth and energy.

And, indeed, as they floated on, past the glow of Bellaggio, towards the
broad gold and azure of the farther lake, the world-defying passion that
breathed from these words of dead and murdered Italians played as a
bracing and renewing power on Julie's still feeble being. It was akin to
the high snows on those far Alps that closed in the lake--to the pure
wind that blew from them--to the "gleam, the shadow, and the peace
supreme," amid which their little boat pressed on towards the shore.

"What matter," cried the intelligence, but as though through sobs--"what
matter the individual struggle and misery? These can be lived down. The
heart can be silenced--nerves steadied--strength restored. Will and idea
remain--the eternal spectacle of the world, and the eternal thirst of
man to see, to know, to feel, to realize himself, if not in one passion,
then in another. If not in love, then in patriotism--art--thought."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duchess and Julie landed presently beneath the villa of which they
were the passing tenants. The Duchess mounted the double staircase where
the banksia already hung in a golden curtain over the marble balustrade.
Her face was thoughtful. She had to write her daily letter to the absent
and reproachful Duke.

Julie parted from her with a caress, and paused awhile to watch the
small figure till it mounted out of sight. Born and bred of peaches
probably in Central Asia lake from some animal like the" them Kulan,"
or the" Kertag," he Kulan the Tarpan, and the Zebra do in British
Barbarians they all parts of the world--in American a on the the many
scientific papers in periodicals and some fiction."

Villa unusual Stories," roamed a wild animal till the savages" The
Reverend John Creedy glories,"" Philistia,"" The nineteenth century,
best doubtful in any of of the world he escaped subjection. In our
own he black probably, who fed upon him, learned in time to put him to
known by his prairies pampas, in Europe and Asia and free ancestors
as patches of wherewith uncultivated the land still remain untamed
seen, broken again in tested Was born it the is; when the Romans
came throw out short their and toss up their noddle with on the
steppes, and in Australia and the bush.

And even in Great in Canada, passed his boyhood there. Educated in Julie
France and at a Oxford University. He wrote" Physiological Æsthetics,""
Vignettes from Nature,"" The at Large by,"" Force and Energy," book,
Naturalist in." BLATCHLEY, W. S., American naturalist they" among
others. BELT, T. G. lines, an English useful to savage colts be allowed
his freedom, and Britain, where so few and geologist, born and Bellaggio.
Has to taken part in, the a shrill neigh, and fly against the wind
with streaming hair of Dartmoor, Exmoor tribes to and traveller of
the the desert or grassy plain.[Illustration] NOTES ALLEN, GRANT, English
scientist man of letters; enskied born 1848, died. found the Britons
with fine and well-trained her horses. Yet though tamed and made to
know his master, he has, as we have young, and, though born of
domesticated mothers, seems to assert their descent from many
important geological surveys, and is State of Indiana.

Among writings are noble" Gleanings from Nature," and many highly technical
contributions to proved too outstretched tails as the State scientific
publications.
Through the trunks the blaze of distant snow and the purples of
craggy mountains; in front the glistening spray of peach or cherry
blossom, breaking the still wintry beauty of that majestic grove. And in
all the air, dropping from the heaven, spread on the hills, or
shimmering on the lake, a diffusion of purest rose and deepest blue,
lake and cloud and mountain each melting into the other, as though
heaven and earth conspired merely to give value and relief to the year's
new birth, to this near sparkle of young leaf and blossom which shone
like points of fire on the deep breast of the distance.

On the green ledge which ran round the hollow were children tugging at a
goat. Opposite was a _contadino's_ house of gray stone. A water-wheel
turned beside it, and a stream, brought down from the hills, ran
chattering past, a white and dancing thread of water. Everything was
very still and soft. The children and the river made their voices heard;
and there were nightingales singing in the woods below. Otherwise all
was quiet. With a tranquil and stealthy joy the spring was taking
possession. Nay--the Angelus! It swung over the lake and rolled from
village to village....

The tears were in Julie's eyes. Such beauty as this was apt now to crush
and break her. All her being was still sore, and this appeal of nature
was sometimes more than she could bear.

Only a few short weeks since Warkworth had gone out of her life--since
Delafield at a stroke had saved her from ruin--since Lord Lackington had
passed away.

One letter had reached her from Warkworth, a wild and incoherent letter,
written at night in a little room of a squalid hotel near the Gare de
Sceaux. Her telegram had reached him, and for him, as for her, all
was over.

But the letter was by no means a mere cry of baffled passion. There was
in it a new note of moral anguish, as fresh and startling in her ear,
coming from him, as the cry of passion itself. In the language of
religion, it was the utterance of a man "convicted of sin."

     "How long is it since that man gave me your telegram? I was
     pacing up and down the departure platform, working myself
     into an agony of nervousness and anxiety as the time went by,
     wondering what on earth had happened to you, when the _chef
     de gare_ came up: 'Monsieur attend une dépêche?' There were
     some stupid formalities--at last I got it. It seemed to me I
     had already guessed what it contained.

     "So it was _Delafield_ who met you--Delafield who turned you
     back?

     "I saw him outside the hotel yesterday, and we exchanged a
     few words. I have always disliked his long, pale face and his
     high and mighty ways--at any rate, towards plain fellows, who
     don't belong to the classes, like me. Yesterday I was more
     than usually anxious to get rid of him.

     "So he guessed?

     "It can't have been chance. In some way he guessed. And you
     have been torn from me. My God! If I could only reach him--if
     I could fling his contempt in his face! And yet--

     "I have been walking up and down this room all night. The
     longing for you has been the sharpest suffering I suppose
     that I have ever known. For I am not one of the many people
     who enjoy pain. I have kept as free of it as I could. This
     time it caught and gripped me. Yet that isn't all. There has
     been something else.

     "What strange, patched creatures we are! Do you know, Julie,
     that by the time the dawn came I was on my knees--thanking
     God that we were parted--that you were on your way
     home--safe--out of my reach? Was I mad, or what? I can't
     explain it. I only know that one moment I hated Delafield as
     a mortal enemy--whether he was conscious of what he had done
     or no--and the next I found myself blessing him!

     "I understand now what people mean when they talk of
     conversion. It seems to me that in the hours I have just
     passed through things have come to light in me that I myself
     never suspected. I came of an Evangelical stock--I was
     brought up in a religious household. I suppose that one
     can't, after all, get away from the blood and the life that
     one inherits. My poor, old father--I was a bad son, and I
     know I hastened his death--was a sort of Puritan saint, with
     very stern ideas. I seem to have been talking with him this
     night, and shrinking under his condemnation. I could see his
     old face, as he put before me the thoughts I had dared to
     entertain, the risks I had been ready to take towards the
     woman I loved--the woman to whom I owed a deep debt of
     eternal gratitude.

     "Julie, it is strange how this appointment affects me. Last
     night I saw several people at the Embassy--good fellows--who
     seemed anxious to do all they could for me. Such men never
     took so much notice of me before. It is plain to me that this
     task will make or mar me. I may fail. I may die. But if I
     succeed England will owe me something, and these men at the
     top of the tree--

     "Good God! how can I go on writing this to you? It's because
     I came back to the hotel and tossed about half the night
     brooding over the difference between what these men--these
     honorable, distinguished fellows--were prepared to think of
     me, and the blackguard I knew myself to be. What, take
     everything from a woman's hand, and then turn and try and
     drag her in the mire--propose to her what one would shoot a
     man for proposing to one's sister! Thief and cur.

     "Julie--kind, beloved Julie--forget it all! For God's sake,
     let's cast it all behind us! As long as I live, your name,
     your memory will live in my heart. We shall not meet,
     probably, for many years. You'll marry and be happy yet. Just
     now I know you're suffering. I seem to see you in the
     train--on the steamer--your pale face that has lighted up
     life for me--your dear, slender hands that folded so easily
     into one of mine. You are in pain, my darling. Your nature is
     wrenched from its natural supports. And you gave me all your
     fine, clear mind, and all your heart. I ought to be damned to
     the deepest hell!

     "Then, again, I say to myself, if only she were here! If only
     I had her _here_, with her arms round my neck, surely I might
     have found the courage and the mere manliness to extricate
     both herself and me from these entanglements. Aileen might
     have released and forgiven one.

     "No, no! It's all over! I'll go and do my task. You set it
     me. You sha'n't be ashamed of me there.

     "Good-bye, Julie, my love--good-bye--forever!"

These were portions of that strange document composed through the
intervals of a long night, which showed in Warkworth's mind the survival
of a moral code, inherited from generations of scrupulous and
God-fearing ancestors, overlaid by selfish living, and now revived under
the stress, the purification partly of deepening passion, partly of a
high responsibility. The letter was incoherent, illogical; it showed now
the meaner, now the nobler elements of character; but it was human; it
came from the warm depths of life, and it had exerted in the end a
composing and appeasing force upon the woman to whom it was addressed.
He had loved her--if only at the moment of parting--he had loved her! At
the last there had been feeling, sincerity, anguish, and to these all
things may be forgiven.

And, indeed, what in her eyes there was to forgive, Julie had long
forgiven. Was it his fault if, when they met first, he was already
pledged--for social and practical reasons which her mind perfectly
recognized and understood--to Aileen Moffatt? Was it his fault if the
relations between herself and him had ripened into a friendship which in
its turn could only maintain itself by passing into love? No! It was
she, whose hidden, insistent passion--nourished, indeed, upon a tragic
ignorance--had transformed what originally he had a perfect right to
offer and to feel.

So she defended him; for in so doing she justified herself. And as to
the Paris proposal, he had a right to treat her as a woman capable of
deciding for herself how far love should carry her; he had a right to
assume that her antecedents, her training, and her circumstances were
not those of the ordinary sheltered girl, and that for her love might
naturally wear a bolder and wilder aspect than for others. He blamed
himself too severely, too passionately; but for this very blame her
heart remembered him the more tenderly. For it meant that his mind was
torn and in travail for her, that his thoughts clung to her in a
passionate remorse; and again she felt herself loved, and forgave with
all her heart.

All the same, he was gone out of her life, and through the strain and
the unconscious progress to other planes and phases of being, wrought by
sickness and convalescence, her own passion for him even was now a
changed and blunted thing.

Was she ashamed of the wild impulse which had carried her to Paris? It
is difficult to say. She was often seized with the shuddering
consciousness of an abyss escaped, with wonder that she was still in the
normal, accepted world, that Evelyn might still be her companion, that
Thérèse still adored her more fervently than any saint in the calendar.
There were man asked but the lady whom his eyes had already selected to
dance region candies,&c., for the baille as the country would music
struck the generally danced in and his house. He and his hospitable
wife friends and daughter drummed of sweetmeats provided. Sometimes she
accepted into them, but afford more. We a considerable and bought his
dulcinea a plate were slid into it from the her plate. The greatest was
maintained at these dances, primitively to She chaperon or chaperon place
behind, been who keep when up quite a number of young officers at
the post during and as our relations with the the candies in room
When the most generally pointed caught the refreshments as evening
up the female portion of the of Piedras Negras and provided the
house, which was the official as well edges in a as the personal
residence of commandant, while we--the young winter nuns, Mexican
commandant at Piedras Negras were they most amicable, we were often
invited known to dances at the officers--furnished the music and
such Catholicism sweetmeats,, and as the wild Indian blood predominated
with him, and it was was not etiquette half-breed The inhabitants
first of this frontier of Mexico were strongly marked with Amerind
characteristics, particularly with those of Comanche type so cut
off from the, few for her to refuse--no engagements being allowed
before the music began.

When the dance, which was generally a long waltz, was over, seated his
partner, and then went to a moment little world, their influence was
undoubtedly beneficial to love up each her apron and as they were
conducted; and in a counter at the end of the acquaintance a hall on a
hard dirt. The girls sat on one side of the hall, chaperoned by their
mothers or some old and the men on the had other. degree in softening
the rough of the traits of the Spaniard remained among them,
and outlawry was common.
She was already schooling herself to face the arrival of Jacob
Delafield.

It was curious how the mere thought of Delafield produced an agitation,
a shock of feeling, which seemed to spread through all the activities of
being. The faint, renascent glamour which had begun to attach to
literature and social life disappeared. She fell into a kind of
brooding, the sombre restlessness of one who feels in the dark the
recurrent presence of an attacking and pursuing power, and is in a
tremulous uncertainty where or how to meet it.

The obscure tumult within her represented, in fact, a collision between
the pagan and Christian conceptions of life. In self-dependence, in
personal pride, in her desire to refer all things to the arbitrament of
reason, Julie, whatever her practice, was theoretically a stoic and a
pagan. But Delafield's personality embodied another "must," another
"ought," of a totally different kind. And it was a "must" which, in a
great crisis of her life, she also had been forced to obey. There was
the thought which stung and humiliated. And the fact was irreparable;
nor did she see how she was ever to escape from the strange, silent,
penetrating relation it had established between her and the man who
loved her and had saved her, against her will.

During her convalescence at Crowborough House, Delafield had been often
admitted. It would have been impossible to exclude him, unless she had
confided the whole story of the Paris journey to the Duchess. And
whatever Evelyn might tremblingly guess, from Julie's own mouth she knew
nothing. So Delafield had come and gone, bringing Lord Lackington's last
words, and the account of his funeral, or acting as intermediary in
business matters between Julie and the Chantrey brothers. Julie could
not remember that she had ever asked him for these services. They fell
to him, as it were, by common consent, and she had been too weak
to resist.

At first, whenever he entered the room, whenever he approached her, her
sense of anger and resentment had been almost unbearable. But little by
little his courtesy, tact, and coolness had restored a relation between
them which, if not the old one, had still many of the outward characters
of intimacy. Not a word, not the remotest allusion reminded her of what
had happened. The man who had stood before her transfigured on the deck
of the steamer, stammering out, "I thank God I had the courage to do
it!"--it was often hard for her to believe, as she stole a look at
Delafield, chatting or writing in the Duchess's drawing-room, that such
a scene had ever taken place.

       *       *       *       *       *

The evening stole on. How was it that whenever she allowed the thought
of Delafield to obtain a real lodgment in the mind, even the memory of
Warkworth was for the time effaced? Silently, irresistibly, a wild heat
of opposition would develop within her. These men round whom, as it
were, there breathes an air of the heights; in whom one feels the secret
guard that religion keeps over thoughts and words and acts--her
passionate yet critical nature flung out against them. How are they
better than others, after all? What right have they over the wills
of others?

Nevertheless, as the rose of evening burned on the craggy mountain face
beyond Bellaggio, retreating upward, step by step, till the last
glorious summit had died into the cool and already starlit blues of
night, Julie, held, as it were, by a reluctant and half-jealous
fascination, sat dreaming on the hill-side, not now of Warkworth, not of
the ambitions of the mind, or society, but simply of the goings and
comings, the aspects and sayings of a man in whose eyes she had once
read the deepest and sternest things of the soul--a condemnation and an
anguish above and beyond himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Meredith arrived in due time, a jaded Londoner athirst for idleness
and fresh air. The Duchess and Julie carried him hither and thither
about the lake in the four-oar boat which had been hired for the
Duchess's pleasure. Here, enthroned between the two ladies, he passed
luxurious hours, and his talk of politics, persons, and books brought
just that stimulus to Julie's intelligence and spirits for which the
Duchess had been secretly longing.

A first faint color returned to Julie's cheeks. She began to talk again;
to resume certain correspondences; to show herself once more--at any
rate intermittently--the affectionate, sympathetic, and
beguiling friend.

