Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


IN THE TRACK OF THE TROOPS, BY R.M. BALLANTYNE.


CHAPTER ONE.

A TALE OF MODERN WAR.

REVEALS THE EXPLOSIVE NATURE OF MY EARLY CAREER.

The remarkable--I might even say amazing--personal adventures which I am
about to relate occurred quite recently.

They are so full of interest to myself and to my old mother, that I
hasten to write them down while yet vivid and fresh in my memory, in the
hope that they may prove interesting,--to say nothing of elevating and
instructive--to the English-speaking portions of the human race
throughout the world.

The dear old lady to whom I have just referred--my mother--is one of the
gentlest, meekest, tenderest beings of my acquaintance.  Her regard for
me is almost idolatrous.  My feelings towards her are tinged with
adoration.

From my earliest years I have been addicted to analysis.

Some of my younger readers may not perhaps know that by analysis is
meant the reduction of compound things to their elements--the turning of
things, as it were, inside out and tearing them to pieces.  All the
complex toys of infancy I was wont to reduce to their elements; I turned
them inside out to see what they were made of, and how they worked.  A
doll, not my own, but my sister Bella's, which had moveable eyelids and
a musical stomach, was treated by me in this manner, the result being
that I learned little, while my poor sister suffered much.  Everything
in my father's house suffered more or less from this inquiring tendency
of my mind.

Time, however, while it did not abate my thirst for knowledge, developed
my constructive powers.  I became a mechanician and an inventor.
Perpetual motion was my first hobby.  Six times during the course of
boyhood did I burst into my mother's presence with the astounding news
that I had "discovered it at last!"  The mild and trustful being
believed me.  Six times also was I compelled to acknowledge to her that
I had been mistaken, and again she believed me, more thoroughly,
perhaps, than at first.  No one, I think, can form the least idea of the
delight with which I pursued this mechanical will-o'-the-wisp.

Growing older, I took to chemistry, and here my love for research and
analysis found ample scope, while the sufferings of my father's
household were intensified.  I am not naturally cruel--far from it.
They little knew how much pain their sufferings caused me; how earnestly
I endeavoured to lessen or neutralise the nuisances which the pursuit of
science entailed.  You give me a lot, you give, such as earth and sky
presents us with full hands excessively rich, and Ford again, what
I have to ask only one such gift entitles you.

I will be unfounded, I will show moderate and so deserve that I trust
you. What did I ever that they could choose me? What should I do
to their worth to be? you could you vertraun and thus art thou's. Yes,
Princess, your words, your eyes forever Be my very soul consecrated
Yes, fordre what you want, because I am yours, you send me Müh and
danger, and glory in faraway lands reside, in the quiet grove of
the golden lyre me, you ordained me Ruh 'and its price: I'm Your ,
forming it should hold me, My heart kept every treasure for them.
hätt O 'a thousand times to me a tool God gegönnt, hardly expresses'
I then enough adoration from the unspeakable.

In Mahler's brush and the poet's lips, the sweetest, ever of early honey
was nourished, wants' me. No, the future should not Tasso between trees,
between man Getting lonely, weak and dull-minded lose! He is no
longer alone, he is with you. O that the noblest of deeds is here
before me was visible, surrounded by rings monstrous danger!

And I ventured to urge the happy life which I now have from their hands
- called the best man at my friends, is impossible with a edeln
Scharnstein after your Wink and willingness to perform.

Premature, why not hid thy mouth, what you felt, until you have valuables
to her feet lay couldst? That was your intent, desire was your clever.
But it was too! Much nicer it is, pure and unmerited receive such a gift,
as half and half to think that we probably should call it that. Views
joyfully! It's so big, so far, what lies before thee, And hopeful youth
lures you in again unknown, bright future out! - Threshold chest! - O
weathering of happiness, but Begünst'ge this plant once, you aspires to
heaven, a thousand branches penetrate from its apparent potential
to blossom.

O that they fear, or joy that they bring!

That a dear hand the golden jewelry from their fresh, rich branches break!
third appearance Tasso. Antonio. Tasso. Let me welcome, though I now saw
for the first time!

Schöner me No man was announced. Be welcome! Dich kenn 'I'm now and
throughout your value, you biet' I have no hesitation in heart and
hand And I hope that you do not despise me.
Words cannot describe my feelings.
I felt as if I had become next thing to a murderer.  Lancey was a tall
powerful man of about thirty, and not easily killed.  He had received no
other injury worth mentioning.  Although the most faithful of servants,
he was irascible, and I anticipated an explosion of temper when he
recovered sufficiently to understand the nature of his injury, but I was
mistaken.  The blowing-up seemed to have quite cured his temper--at
least as regarded myself, for when I afterwards went to see him, with a
very penitent face, he took my hand and said--

"Don't take on so, Master Jeffry.  You didn't do it a purpus, you know,
and, after all, it's on'y the little finger o' the left hand.  It'll be
rather hout o' the way than otherwise.  Moreover, I was used to make a
baccy stopper o' that finger, an' it strikes me that the stump'll fit
the pipe better than the pint did, besides bein' less sensitive to fire,
who knows?  Any'ow, Master Jeffry, you've got no occasion to grieve over
it so."

I felt a little comforted when the good fellow spoke thus, but I could
not forgive myself.  For some time after that I quite gave up my
chemical and other experiments, and when I did ultimately resume them, I
went to work with extreme caution.

Not long after this event I went to college, and studied medicine.  My
course was nearly completed when my dear father died.  He had earnestly
desired that I should enter the medical profession.  I therefore
resolved to finish my course, although, being left in possession of a
small estate named Fagend, in Devonshire, and an ample income, it was
not requisite that I should practise for a livelihood.

One morning, a considerable time after my studies were completed, I sat
at breakfast with my mother.

"Jeff," she said (my name is Jeffry Childers); "Jeff, what do you think
of doing now?  Being twenty-four, you ought, you know, to have some
fixed idea as to the future, for, of course, though independent, you
don't intend to be idle."

"Right, mother, right," I replied, "I don't mean to be an idler,
nevertheless I don't mean to be a doctor.  I shall turn my mind to
chemistry, and talking of that, I expect to test the powers of a
particular compound today."

"And what," said my mother, with a peculiar smile, "is the nature of
this compound?"

"Violently explosive," said I.

"Ah, of course, I might have guessed that, Jeff, for most of your
compounds are either violently explosive or offensive--sometimes both;
but what is the name of this one?"

"Before answering that," said I, pulling out my watch, "allow me to ask
at what hour you expect Bella home to-day."

"She half promised to be over to breakfast, if cousin Kate would let her
away.  It is probable that she may arrive in less than an hour."

"Curious coincidence," said I, "that her lover is likely to arrive about
the same time!"

"What!  Nicholas Naranovitsch?"

"Yes.  The ship in which he sailed from St. Petersburg arrived late last
night, and I have just received a telegram, saying that he will be down
by the first train this morning.  Love, you know, is said to have wings.
If the pair given to Naranovitsch are at all in keeping with his
powerful frame, they will bear him swiftly to Fagend."

It may interest the reader at this point to know that my only sister,
Bella, had been engaged the previous year to one of my dearest college
friends, a young Russian, whose father had sent him to finish his
education in England.  My own father, having been a merchant, many of
whose dealings were with Russia, had frequently visited St. Petersburg
and twice my mother and sister and I accompanied him thither.  While
there we had met with the Naranovitsch family.

Young Nicholas was now in the army, and as fine-looking a fellow as one
could wish to see.  Not only was he strong and manly, but gentle in
manner and tender of heart.  My sister Bella being the sweetest--no, not
quite that, for there _is_ a pretty young--well, no matter--Bella being,
as I may say, _one_ of the sweetest girls in England, he fell in love
with her, of course.  So did she with him; no wonder!  During a visit to
our place in Devonshire at the end of his college career, he and Bella
became engaged.  Nicholas returned to St. Petersburg to obtain his
parents' consent to the union, and to make arrangements.  He was rich,
and could afford to marry.  At the time I write of, he was coming back,
not to claim his bride, for his father thought him still too young, but
to see her, and to pay us a visit.

"Now you know, mother," said I, "after the young people have seen each
other for half-an-hour or so, they will naturally want to take a walk or
a ride, and--"

"Only half-an-hour?" interrupted my mother, with one of her peculiar
little smiles.

"Well, an hour if you like, or two if they prefer it," I returned; "at
all events, they will want a walk before luncheon, and I shall take the
opportunity to show them some experiments, which prove the power of the
singular compound about which you questioned me just now."

"The explosive?"

"Yes.  Its name is dynamite."

"And what may that be, Jeff?  Something very awful, I daresay," remarked
my mother, with a look of interest, as she sipped her tea.

"Very awful, indeed," said I; "at least its effects are sometimes
tremendous."

"What! worse than gunpowder?"

"Ay, much worse, though I should prefer to say _better_ than gunpowder."

"Dear me!" rejoined my mother, lifting her eyebrows a little, in
surprise.

"Yes, much better," I continued; "gunpowder only bursts things--"

"Pretty well that, Jeff, in the way of violence, isn't it?"

"Yes, but nothing to dynamite, for while powder only bursts things,
dynamite shatters them."

"How very dreadful!  What _is_ dynamite?"

"That is just what I am about to explain," said I.  "You must know,
then, that it is a compound."

"Dear, dear," sighed my mother; "how many compounds you have told me
about, Jeff, since you took to chemistry!  Are there no uncompounded
things--no simple things in the world?"

"Why, yes, mother; _you_ are a simple thing, and I only wish there were
a good many more simple things like you in the world--"

"Don't be foolish, Jeff, but answer my question."

"Well, mother, there are indeed some simple elements in creation, but
dynamite is not one of them.  It is composed of an excessively explosive
oil named nitro-glycerine (itself a compound), and an earth called
kieselguhr.  The earth is not explosive, and is only mixed with the
nitro-glycerine to render that liquid less dangerous; but the compound
is named dynamite, in which form it is made up and sold in immense
quantities for mining purposes.  Here is some of it," I added, pulling
from my pocket a cartridge nearly two inches in length, and about an
inch in diameter.  "It is a soft, pasty substance, done up, as you see,
in cartridge-paper, and this little thing, if properly fired, would blow
a large boulder-stone to atoms."

"Bless me, boy, be careful!" exclaimed my mother, pushing back her chair
in some alarm.

"There is no danger," I said, in reassuring tones, "for this cartridge,
if opened out and set on fire by a spark or flame, would not, in the
first place, light readily, and, in the second place, it would merely
burn without exploding; but if I were to put a detonator inside and fire
it by means of _that_, it would explode with a violence that far exceeds
the force of gunpowder."

"And what is this wonderful detonator, Jeff, that so excites the latent
fury of the dynamite?"

I was much amused by the pat way in which my mother questioned me, and
became more interested as I continued my explanation.

"You must know," I said, "that many powders are violently explosive, and
some more so than others.  This violence of explosion is called
detonation, by which is meant the almost instantaneous conversion of the
ultimate molecules of an explosive compound (i.e. the whole concern)
into gas."

"I see; you mean that it goes off quickly," said my mother, in a simple
way that was eminently characteristic.

"Well, yes; but much more quickly than gunpowder does.  It were better
to say that a powder detonates when it _all_ explodes at the _same_
instant.  Gunpowder appears to do so, but in reality it does not.  One
of the best detonators is fulminate of mercury.  Detonating caps are
therefore made of this, and one such cap put into the middle of that
cartridge of dynamite and set fire to, by any means, would convert the
cartridge itself into a detonator, and explode it with a _shattering_
effect.

"A human being," I continued, "sometimes illustrates this principle
figuratively--I mean the violent explosion of a large cartridge by means
of a small detonator.  Take, for example, a schoolmaster, and suppose
him to be a dynamite cartridge.  His heart is a detonating cap.  The
schoolroom and boys form a galvanic battery.  His brain may be likened
to a conducting-wire.  He enters the schoolroom; the chemical elements
are seething in riot, books are being torn and thrown, ink spilt,
etcetera.  Before opening the door, the good man is a quiet piece of
plastic dynamite, but the instant his eye is touched, the electric
circuit is, as it were, completed; the mysterious current flashes
through the brain, and fires his detonating heart.  Instantly the
gleaming flame shoots with lightning-speed to temples and toes.  The
entire man becomes a detonator, and he explodes in a violent hurricane
of kicks, cuffs, and invective!  Now, without a detonator--a heart--the
man might have burned with moderate wrath, but he could not have
exploded."

"Don't try illustration, Jeff," said my plain-spoken mother, gently
patting my arm; "it is not one of your strong points."

"Perhaps not; but do you understand me?"

"I think I do, in a hazy sort of way."

Dear mother! she always professes to comprehend things hazily, and
indeed I sometimes fear that her conceptions on the rather abstruse
matters which I bring before her are not always correct; but it is
delightful to watch the profound interest with which she listens, and
the patient efforts she makes to understand.  I must in justice add that
she sometimes, though not often, displays gleams of clear intelligence,
and powers of close incisive reasoning, that quite surprise me.

"But now, to return to what we were speaking of--my future plans," said
I; "it seems to me that it would be a good thing if I were to travel for
a year or so and see the world."

"You might do worse, my boy," said my mother.

"With a view to that," I continued, "I have resolved to purchase a
yacht, but before doing so I must complete the new torpedo that I have
invented for the navy; that is, I hope it may be introduced into our
navy.  The working model in the outhouse is all but ready for
exhibition.  When finished, I shall show it to the Lords of the
Admiralty, and after they have accepted it I will throw study overboard
for a time and go on a cruise."

"Ah, Jeff, Jeff," sighed my mother, with a shake of her head, "you'll
never leave off till you get blown up.  But I suppose you must have your
way.  You always had, dear boy."

"But never in opposition to your wishes, had I?  Now be just, mother."

"Quite true, Jeff, quite true.  How comes it, I wonder, that you are so
fond of fire, smoke, fumes, crash, clatter, and explosions?"

"Really," said I, somewhat amused by the question, "I cannot tell,
unless it be owing to something in that law of compensation which
appears to permeate the universe.  You have such an abhorrence of fire,
fumes, smoke, crash, clatter, and explosions, that your only son is
bound, as it were, to take special delight in chemical analysis and
combination, to say nothing of mechanical force and contrivance, in
order that a balance of some sort may be adjusted which would otherwise
be thrown out of order by your--pardon me--comparative ignorance of, and
indifference to such matters."

"Nay, Jeff," replied my mother, gently, with a look of reproof on her
kind face; "ignorance if you will, but not indifference.  I cannot be
indifferent to anything that interests you."

"True; forgive me; I should have said `dislike.'"

"Yes, that would have been correct, Jeff, for I cannot pretend to like
the bursting, smoking, and ill-smelling things you are so fond of; but
you know I am interested in them.  You cannot have forgotten how, when
you were a boy, I used to run at your call to witness your pyrotechnic,
hydraulic, mechanic, and chemic displays--you see how well I remember
the names--and how the--"

"The acids," I interrupted, taking up the theme, "ruined your carpets
and table-cloths, and the smoke stifled and blinded, while the noise and
flames terrified you; no, mother, I have not forgotten it, nor the
patient way you took the loss of your old silk dress, or--"

"Ah! yes," sighed the dear old lady, with quite a pitiful look, "if it
had been any other than my wedding dress, which--but--well, it's of no
use regretting now; and you know, Jeff, I would not have checked you for
worlds, because I knew you were being led in the right way, though, in
my folly, I sometimes wished that the way had been a little further
removed from smoke and smells.  But, after all, you were very careful,
dear boy--wonderfully so, for your years, and your little accidents did
not give me much pain beyond the day of their occurrence.  The poisoning
of the cat, to be sure, was sad, though unavoidable, and so was the
destruction by fire of the cook's hair; but the flooding of the house,
after the repairs you executed on the great cistern, and the blowing out
of the laundry window at the time the clothes-boiler was cracked, with
other trifles of that sort, were--"

The remainder of my mother's speech was cut short by a clattering of
hoofs.

Next moment my sister Bella came round the corner of the house at full
gallop, her fresh face beaming with the exercise, and her golden hair
streaming in the breeze.

She pulled up, leaped off her pony, and ran into the room.  As she did
so, I observed a tall, soldierly man appear in the avenue, advancing
with rapid strides.  Well did I know his grave, handsome face.

"Here comes Nicholas!" said I, turning round; but Bella had fled.

I observed that my friend, instead of coming straight to the room from
the window of which my mother and I had saluted him, turned sharp off to
the library.

I was running to the door to welcome him, when my mother called me back.
I turned and looked at her.  She smiled.  So did I.  Without uttering a
word we both sat down to finish our breakfast.

"Ah!  Jeff," said my mother, with a little sigh, "how I wish you would
fall in love with some one!"

"Fall in love, mother!  What nonsense!  How could I?  No doubt there are
plenty loveable girls, and there _is_ one charming little--well, no
matter--"

At that moment Nicholas entered the room, heartily saluted my mother,
and cut short our conversation.


CHAPTER TWO.

IS STILL MORE EXPLOSIVE THAN THE FIRST.

Much to my surprise, I found that neither Nicholas Naranovitsch nor
Bella nor my mother would consent to witness my experiments with
dynamite that day.

As my old chum approached to greet me on the lawn before breakfast the
day following, I could not help admiring his fine, tall, athletic
figure.  I don't know how it is, but I have always felt, somehow, as if
I looked up at him, although we were both exactly the same height--six
feet one without our boots.  I suppose it must have been owing to his
standing so erect, while I slouched a little.  Perhaps my looking up to
him mentally had something to do with it.

"You'll come to-day, won't you?"  I said, referring to the experiments.

"Of course I will, old boy; but," he added, with a smile, "only on one
condition."

"What may that be?"

"That you don't bother Bella with minute details."

Of course I promised not to say a word unless asked for explanations,
and after breakfast we all went to a part of the grounds which I wished
to bring under cultivation.  It was at that time encumbered with several
large trees, old roots, and a number of boulders.

"Come along with us, Lancey," I said to the groom, who was also my
laboratory assistant, and whom I met in the stable-yard, the scene of
his memorable blowing-up.  "I am about to try the effect of an
explosive, and wish you to understand the details."

"Yes, sir," replied Lancey, with a respectful touch of his cap; "I must
say, sir, if you'll allow me, I never knowed any one like you, sir, for
goin' into details except one, and that one--"

"Ah, yes, I know, that was your friend the Scotch boy," said I,
interrupting; but Lancey was a privileged servant, and would not be
interrupted.

"Yes, sir," he resumed, "the Scotch boy Sandy.  We was at school
together in Edinburgh, where I got the most o' my edication, and I never
did see such a boy, sir, for goin' into--"

"Yes, yes, Lancey, I know; but I haven't time to talk about him just
now.  We are going to the bit of waste ground in the hollow; follow us
there."

I was obliged to cut him short, because this Scotch hero of his was a
subject on which he could not resist dilating on the slightest
encouragement.

Arrived at the waste ground, we met the manager of a neighbouring mine,
who was deeply learned in everything connected with blasting.

"I have brought my mother and sister, you see, Mr Jones," said I, as we
approached.  "They don't quite believe in the giant-power which is under
your control; they seem to think that it is only a little stronger than
gunpowder."

"We can soon change their views on that point," said the manager, with a
slight bow to the ladies, while I introduced Nicholas as an officer of
the Russian army.

"This is one of the stones you wish to blast, is it not?" said Mr
Jones, laying his hand on an enormous boulder that weighed probably
several tons.

"It is," I answered.

The manager was a man of action--grave of countenance and of few words.
He drew a flask from his pocket and emptied its contents, a large
quantity of gunpowder, on the boulder.  Asking us to stand a little
back, he applied a slow match to the heap, and retired several paces.

In a few seconds the powder went off with a violent puff and a vast
cloud of smoke.  The result was a little shriek of alarm from my mother,
and an exclamation from Bella.

"Not much effect from that, you see," said the manager, pointing to the
blackened stone, yet it was a large quantity of powder, which, if fired
in a cavity inside the stone, would have blown it to pieces.  "Here,
now, is a small quantity of dynamite."  (He produced a cartridge about
two inches in length, similar to that which I had shown to my mother at
breakfast.) "Into this cartridge I shall insert a detonator cap, which
is fastened to the end of a Pickford fuse--thus."

Then he looked for three doctors to each other, gave himself over as
one plagued by unbearable pain from the sick, who, for years accustomed
to morphine, with its stock at the end had come, took the requested
recipes in reception, they had made in various pharmacies and found
himself when he was falling when the sun went back on board, in
possession of a dose, which he uses for his more than enough could
hold.

At the dinner table on the ship, he told the Tone highest delight
of a walk through Pompeii, which he had exploited verflossenen days,
and with a burning desire to lie, as he would have his own nature
into diabolical increase, he stayed in the portrayal of a quarter,
which he in the garden of Appius Claudius had spent before a
statuette, which he obviously never seen in reality and from which
he accidentally read the travel guide.

Elise sat at his side, opposite the Baron, the looks of the two met,
and Alfred could not fend off the idea that there were two ghosts
from empty eye sockets themselves anstarrten. Later, however, as on
so many evenings before, he walked with Elisen on the top canopy walk in
the moonlight, while the lights of the distant coast verglänzten.

Since he is one second will be felt weak, he chased his decision by the
new fantasy that it would be noble arm, which he pressed to his, and
at the Glutwelle to him through the veins shot, he realized that the
Fortunately, its the waiting, even through the most formidable
debt was bought would be too expensive.

But it stirred in him as something mysterious envy of the young creature
at his side, which it decided should be made as soon Lebenswirrnis all
without suffering and the redemptive clueless starting to find. When he
Elise in the cabin with perfect, almost to the Unbearable increased
clarity and yet with a desperate desire for the last time into the
arms closed, felt he was the executor as a destiny to which his
will had no share more.

Only one grip of his fingers would have needed it, knock the glass, from
the bluish herüberschillerte tables, and the venom drops were a harmless
wet, indifferent to the planks away. But Alfred stood motionless and
waited.

He waited until he finally, with the standstill heart to him a
familiar movement Elisen was aware that half-closed eyes with her
hand under the glass ausstreckte order, as they always did before
falling asleep, their thirst to last breastfeed.

He saw with wide open eyelids, without stirring, as they are a little
up, the glass on the lips and put its contents in one hinunterstürzte.
Then she laid herself out again with a slight sigh, his head,
according to their habit, to a snooze on his chest bettend.

Alfred heard his temples in a slow, muffled hammering, heard Elisen
quiet breathing, and heard the waves as complaining to the bow of the
ship suggest that almost a silent Time hinschwebte. With one time he felt
like a violent quake Elisen body went through .

Your two hands grabbed his neck, her fingers seemed to be in his skin
einbohren want to, then, only with a long groaning she opened her eyes.
Alfred separated himself from her embrace, jumped out of bed, saw
how they tried to rise, with the poor into the void suggested a mistaken
view in the twilight flicker back and forth left and suddenly
lengthwise again zurücksank to with short shallow breaths, but
perfectly motionless liegenzubleiben.

Alfred immediately knew that it was without any consciousness,
cold and wondered how long this condition could probably forever,
before he led to the end. It struck him at the same time that they are
at this moment, perhaps to save it; and with the dark feeling that
in this way one last time to try the fate of either themselves the
fruits of his actions to destroy, or by a bold gamble to entsühnen, he
hurried from the doctor to get. Recognized of what had happened here, so
the game should finally lost, in another case but said he gave himself
for all future of guilt and remorse going on. [Illustration] As an
Alfred with the doctor came into the cabin, was pale with Elise
half-open glazed eyes, fingers cramped into the ceiling and shimmering
drops on the forehead and cheeks. The doctor bent down, put his ear
to her chest, listened long and nodded concern pushed Elisen eyelids
apart, held their own hands before their lips, listened again, then
he turned to Alfred and opened him that the fight to the death end
was.

With a mistaken view that was not feigned, beat Alfred's hands over their
heads together, dropped out before the bed and remained on the
forehead Elisen knees pressed, a short while so. Then he turned and stared
as lost to the doctor, with the regretful glance gave him a hand.

Alfred was not, shook his head and, in full possession of his inner
clarity, too late, as in self-reproach, he whispered to himself,
"Had we but followed you."

Then he hid the sorrowful face in his hands. "That, I think I can,"
he heard the doctor tadelnd, but mild reply: in a powerful sense of
triumph he felt behind his eyelids twitching lights and the glow of
his eyes. [Illustration] Even on days later, as the requirement
demanded Elisen corpse was lowered into the sea, and Alfred
felt as a widower of a general, but dumb restrained participation
surrounded. No one dared to disturb him, if he spend hours on the hood
back and forth and went into a wide looked for him what no one could
guess, from Dufte hopes durchweht was blessed.

Only the Baron joined occasionally on the short minute back and forth
changing, where he failed with a clear intent, even with words of mourning
to commemorate case. Alfred knew well that the Baron nothing to
accompany these courses led, than the yearning for a short minutes in
a cloud of the deceased to feel loved. For Alfred those minutes were
the only ones in which he was touched by the past, felt otherwise, he
had completely overlooked his deed, and what they might mean to people,
emporgehoben. In a dynamic picture of the stand Heißersehnten in debt
before he won, and if the bow of the ship from going into the water
looked, it was him, as he would have buried them friedevoll worlds
then women who are in their deep slumber was the same, whether it
yesterday or a thousand years ago had sunk.

[Illustration] It was only when the German coast was visible, its pulse
went faster. His intention was to not be in Hamburg to linger longer
than was necessary to correct the letter, who had to wait its here, and
with the coming home to stay the course. The length of disembarkation
harrowing impatience caused him, and how relieved he breathed,
when the baggage is finally on the car and he was managed through
the streets of the city, those with small pink clouds late spring
afternoon was, drove to the Post Office building.

He gave the officer his business card, looked at him with eyes to read
the letter through the activity, held the hand of already prepared to
receive and received the reply that nothing for him there would be
no letter, no card, no telegram. He tried an infidel smile and asked the
officials in almost humility of tone, which he is equally ashamed,
look again.

And now trying Alfred, on the edges of the envelopes away addresses
to decipher, always believed his name in Adele lettering to recognize
stretched a few times already, hopefully the hands - and had
repeatedly heard that he had deceived.

Finally, the officers, the packet back into the tray, shook his head and
turned away. Alfred recommended with exaggerated politeness, and found
himself in the next minute half stunned by the gate is. Sure it was
only the one that he was provisionally festgebannt here and anything
could go to Vienna, without any message in the hands of nobility
to have.

He drove into a hotel, took a room and threw on the following words on
one of the subject prepared Blankette: "No word from you. Unbegreiflich.
Stunned. Am tomorrow at home. When can I see you? Respond immediately.
"He continued his address to the dispatch, and gave feedback with paid
on. When he was already in the hall became enlightened evening, he felt
two eyes to be addressed, from an armchair ago, a newspaper on the
knee, seriously, without being collected, the baron greeted him, of
which he is on the ship only fleeting farewell had taken.

Alfred was shown by the unexpected encounter delighted even believed
it to be really, and made the Baron of his intention statement until
tomorrow, here to stay.

The baron, who despite his pale cheeks, and his continued Hüstelns
claimed to feel well, proposed during dinner before a joint
Singspielhalle reside, and remarked on Alfreds hesitation out quietly
and with lowered eyelashes that mourning nor anyone from the dead
auferweckt have.

Alfred laughed, frightened about his laughter, his embarrassment felt by
the Baron noticed and felt immediately that he could do nothing smarter
than him adapter.

Soon after he sat with him in a box, drank champagne, saw through
smoke and haze in the shrill sounds of a nasty gymnast orchestra and its
arts and clowns jokes drive, semi-heard women sing nasty songs and
drew attention to the silent comrades such as under a furious Forced
to shapely legs and luscious breasts, which are on the stage to
show imputed.

Then he joked with a flower shop, threw a dancer, the seductive
shook her black curls, a yellow rose in front of his feet and laughed
at when he was the narrow mouth of the Baron, as in bitterness and
disgust twitch saw.

Later he was, as looked from the floor below, hundreds of evil with
curiosity at him, and would as a murmur and the sums him alone.

Fear crept shivering him on the back, then dropped him that he had a
few glasses of champagne too quickly hinuntergestürzt had, and was
again reassured. He noted with satisfaction that, while he bent
over the parapet had two wives geschminkte the Baron in a conversation
had taken, to breathe, as if he were a danger escaped, stood up, nodded
to the companions as encouraging the adventure and wanting to
be happy , and soon he went, alone, through streets that he had never
seen and would never see again, some are a melody before hinpfeifend and
feeling, a dream city to durchirren in the cool night air after
the hotel back.

[Illustration] When he the morning after the dull, deep sleep awoke, he
had only reflect that he is no longer on the ship dahinfuhr and that
the white sheen is not Elisen morning dress, but a window curtain
meant.

With a tremendous effort will he fended off the threat of rising alarm and
rang. At the same time with the breakfast they brought him a
telegram. He let it lie on the tablet, while the waiter still stayed in
the room, and it was him, as they deserved self somehow overcome
their reward.

Scarcely had the door closed again, so he opened the telegram with
trembling fingers, the first letters swam before his eyes, but
suddenly she stood rigid and enormous, "Morning Midday 11 clock.

Adele."

He ran back and forth, laughed through the teeth and settled by the
terse, cold tone of the call is not anfrösteln.

It was now their art And when he would not do everything at home, as he
has recently had hoped, even if it have any unpleasant openings to come,
what it had to mean? He would do so again face in light of their
eyes, the smell of their breath, and so was the Ungeheure not done
in vain. It gave him no longer in the hotel, a short time until the
departure of the train he ran around in the city, with over eyelids
open, but without people and things to see .

At noon he went to Hamburg from staring through the windows for
hours and hours on the sloping landscape, everything from thoughts,
hopes and fears in him wanted to be brisk, with all the tension of
his will wohlgeübten settled optional, and if it is to passengers
are not too conspicuous to be a book or a newspaper carried, it was
he, without reading, even over the other to a hundred, five hundred
thousand.

When it was night, broke through the zehrende longing all his efforts
to be taken to hold. He scolded the foolish, the lack of messages and
the tone of the last dispatch to have misinterpreted, and knew
no other allegation against Adele, as that they are sincere to the
deal when he held. But it should be around in any way but have learned
that he traveled with a woman, so he felt in his love strong enough
against all the jealousy and bitterness insulted again reclaim.

And so he had to the Lord watch over his dreams that he in this
endless night, the melody of her voice be heard, the outlines of
their form and their features to see, yes, kiss her that he could
feel so sweet singe how he, in fact, from their lips never been
decided.

He was at home.

Yours received him relish his apartment. The sorglich prepared breakfast
excellent taste him, and for the first time back since many days, so he
wanted to appear, he thought, in complete silence those others
who, by earthly Gram redeemed for all time, slumbered in the silent
seas.

In some moments it was when those hours could be a result of landing in
Naples at up to Elisen death probably also a conceit of his shattered
nerves, and the worst outcome would be, so as the doctors predicted,
and indeed had prophesied, just in the course of lawful disease
happened.

Yes, the man who in a strange city sonnbeglänzten treacherous from doctor
to doctor, from pharmacist to pharmacist geeilt cruel premeditation
and with the deadly poison had prepared the man, the mistress that he
wanted to send to the Hereafter, nor one hour earlier harmdoers to
delight in the arms closed, seemed to him an entirely other
than the confidential between walls in an unchanged, comfortable
bourgeois surroundings drank his tea, he seemed one who was much
more than he, one to which he himself with shuddering admiration
would have to look upwards.

As yet, he had neither experienced
the excitement, beheld the miseries, nor bathed in the so-called "glory"
of war; and now that a corner of the dark cloud was unexpectedly flung
over him in Bella's sorrow, he felt deeply sympathetic but helpless.  A
sad look, however, and a gentle pressure of the hand that rested on his
arm, was quite sufficient for Bella.

To relieve my friend from his embarrassment, I pulled out my watch and
urged that we should walk in the direction of the Admiralty, as the hour
for my interview had nearly arrived.

At Charing-Cross we parted, and I proceeded on my mission with the plan
of my torpedo, which Nicholas styled the "infernal machine," in my
pocket, and a rather anxious heart in my breast, for although I was
quite certain that my invention was superior to all others, inasmuch as
it fulfilled several conditions which were not fulfilled by other
torpedoes, I did not feel sure that the Lords of the Admiralty would
take the same view of it that I did.  Besides, the machine had only been
tried as a model, and might not act perfectly when tested in actual
warfare.  But, of course, I knew that my inventive powers would readily
overcome each weak point as it cropped into view in practice.

I met with a very gracious reception from the first Lord.  Beside him
were seated two elderly gentlemen, whom I judged to be brother Lords.

It were needless to recount all that passed during that memorable
interview.  Suffice it to say, that after I had given a most careful and
clear explanation of my invention, to which the three Lords listened
with marked attention, the first Lord said, with a bland smile--

"But what, Mr Childers, is the peculiar point of superiority over other
torpedoes which you claim for yours?"

I confess that the question damped me a little, for I had been
remarkably explicit in my explanations, which lasted nearly an hour.
However, with the utmost alacrity, I went again over the chief points.

"You observe, my Lord," said I, pointing to my drawing, which lay spread
out on the table, "that this watch-work arrangement in the heart of the
machine is so intimately connected with that lever and screw on its
exterior, that in passing out of the case from which it is launched into
the sea, the machinery is set in motion, and the first act of the
torpedo is to set or regulate itself for the special purpose for which
it is designed.  Thus it may be styled an automatic torpedo.  The
celebrated Whitehead fish-torpedo, beautiful and cleverly contrived
though it be, can only advance straight to its object at a certain depth
below the surface; but mine, as you see, by this arrangement of the main
pneumatic engine, which connects the watch-work regulator with an
eccentric wheel or fin outside, causes the torpedo to describe a curve
of any size, and in any direction, during its progress.  Thus, if you
wish to hit an enemy's vessel, but cannot venture to fire because of a
friendly ship happening to lie between, you have only to set the
eccentric indicator to the required curve, and send the torpedo on its
mission of destruction right under the bottom of the friendly ship; or
by laying the torpedo on its side, it will easily go round it, and
afterwards hit the enemy."

"Ah!  I see," said the first Lord, with a grave nod; "you have at last
succeeded in making that which has so long been held impossible; an
instrument which will shoot round the corner."

"Well, a--; yes, my Lord, although I confess it had not struck me in
that light before.  But," I continued, feeling my enthusiasm rise as the
first Lord became more appreciative, "the weapon may be used even in
attacking fortresses from the sea, for by making what I may call the
inverted trajectory of the curve very high, the torpedo may be made to
rush under the surface of the water, gradually curve upwards, then shoot
right out of its native element, and go straight into a fort or town on
a hill, at least a hundred feet above the level of the sea."

"Indeed!" exclaimed the first Lord.

I observed that the other two Lords were gazing at me, with looks from
which were banished every expression except that of intense surprise.
Regarding this as a sign that the merits of my invention were beginning
to tell on them, I went on--

"Yes, my Lord, the action of the thing is absolutely certain, if the
distance of the object aimed at be ascertained to a nicety, and the
arrangements of the watch-work indicator adjusted to those of the
eccentric wheel and the pneumatic engine with mathematical precision.
This, of course, in these days of thorough education, can be easily done
by even the youngest officer in a ship.  I should have mentioned,
however, that if it were required to send the torpedo into a citadel or
fortress on a hill, it would be necessary to use a stronger explosive
than any yet known,--gun-cotton and dynamite being too weak, and
nitro-glycerine too dangerous, therefore inadmissible."

"Ha!" exclaimed the first Lord, "and where is such an explosive to be
found?"

"In my laboratory down in Devonshire, my Lord," I answered, with a look
of diffidence, feeling uncertain how he would take the announcement.

For a few moments he contemplated me in perfect silence, and I observed
that the other two Lords smiled.  I felt perplexed, but the awkwardness
of the moment was quickly removed by the first Lord asking what my new
compound was made of.

"That, my Lord," said I, "is a secret."

"Just so, and you wish to sell your secret to Government?"

"No, my Lord," I replied, with dignity; "I wish to let my Government
possess any slight gift which it lies in my power to present to it, in
addition to that of a loyal heart; but I cannot afford to let my secret
be known, unless I have some assurance that it shall be held
inviolable."

"That assurance you have," said the first Lord, "but I should have
supposed that to so loyal a subject the character of the British
Admiralty would have been sufficient guarantee, and that nothing further
would have been required from me."

"I do _not_ require further assurance, my Lord," said I, hastily; "I
merely wish you to understand how important it is that secrecy should be
observed.  I will reveal it to you."

Here I rose and whispered in the first Lord's ear.  He turned pale, as I
sat down, and whispered to the other two Lords, who looked very grave,
from which I augured good fortune to my invention.  At the same time I
was surprised, for my communication to him was in no way alarming,
though connected with explosives.

Presently the first Lord touched a bell.  A servant in uniform appeared,
and after a few words, disappeared.  I was puzzled, but silent.

"Mr Childers," said the first Lord, "I shall give your invention my
best attention; but I must tell you that there are many others in this
country, as well as yourself, who are exerting their minds to discover
the most effectual method of spreading wholesale devastation among their
fellow-creatures, and--"

"Forgive my interrupting you, my Lord," I exclaimed, with a look of
horror, "but I repudiate entirely any intention to destroy my
fellow-creatures.  My motives in this matter have been purely
scientific."

"I have no doubt of it," returned the first Lord, with a smile,
"nevertheless the tendency of your labours is towards destruction; and
my reference to the fact is merely for the purpose of informing you that
there are many other inventors who have claimed my attention to their
designs, and that you must not expect an immediate decision in regard to
yours."

With this I was politely bowed out, and as I passed down the corridor, I
could not help feeling disappointed at the rather faint success of my
visit.  The idea, too, that I was a would-be destroyer of my species had
never before occurred to me, my whole soul and faculties having hitherto
been engrossed in the simple idea of perfecting a chemical explosive and
a mechanical contrivance.  Thus, unintentionally, do we sometimes lend
ourselves to that from which our hearts revolt.

I noticed, too, that the servant who had been summoned by the first Lord
while we were discussing the torpedo, was particularly attentive to me,
and very careful in seeing me off the premises; and then, for the first
time, it flashed across my mind that I had been taken for a madman.

I was so tickled with the idea, that I burst into a sudden fit of hearty
laughter, an act which induced a little boy, a policeman, and an old
woman, who chanced to be passing, to imbibe the erroneous view of the
first Lord.

However, although grievously disheartened, I was not subdued.  Hope,
which tells so many flattering tales, told me that after proper
consideration the Admiralty would infallibly perceive the value of my
invention; and in regard to the destruction of my fellow-creatures, I
consoled myself with the reflection that torpedoes were much more
calculated for defensive than offensive warfare.

Before quitting this subject, I may state that from that day to this, I
have never heard from the Admiralty in reference to my invention.  This
fact gives me no pain now, although it did at first.  I will explain
why.

There is a friend of mine--a grave, kindly, young man, yet withal
sarcastic and eccentric--who met me immediately after my visit to the
Admiralty.  He is a strange being this friend, who crops up at all sorts
of unexpected times, and in divers places, when one least expects him.
His name is U. Biquitous.

"My dear Childers," said he, when I had explained matters, "you are a
victim;--you are the victim of self-delusion.  You were victimised by
self-delusion when I first met you, at the time you thought you had
discovered perpetual motion.  Your torpedo, as you have just described
it to me, is an impossibility, and you yourself are--"

"An ass?" said I, looking up in his face.

"No, by no means," returned Biquitous, earnestly; "but you are an
enthusiast without ballast.  Enthusiasm is a fine, noble quality.  The
want of ballast is a grievous misfortune.  Study mechanics, my boy, a
little more than you have yet done, before venturing on further
inventions, and don't theorise too much.  You have been revelling of
late in the regions of fancy.  Take my advice, and don't do it."

"I wont," said I, fervently, "but I cannot give up my cherished
pursuits."

"There is no reason that you should," returned my friend, grasping my
hand, "and my earnest advice to you is to continue them; but lay in some
ballast if possible."

With these cheery words ringing in my ears, I rejoined my mother and
sister, and went off to Portsmouth.

It is well, however, to state here that my personal investigations in
the matter of explosives had at this time received a death-blow.  I
went, indeed, with intense interest to see the display of our national
destructive powers at Portsmouth, but I never again ventured to add my
own little quota to the sum of human knowledge on such subjects; and the
reader may henceforth depend upon it, that in all I shall hereafter
write, there shall be drawn a distinct and unmistakable line between the
region of fact and fancy.


CHAPTER FOUR.

A DAY WITH THE TORPEDOES.

The sentence with which I finished the last chapter appears to me
essential, because what I am now about to describe may seem to many
readers more like the dreams of fancy than the details of sober fact.

When my mother and I, with Nicholas and Bella, arrived at Portsmouth, we
were met by my naval friend, a young lieutenant, who seemed to me the
_beau-ideal_ of an embryo naval hero.  He was about the middle height,
broad, lithe, athletic, handsome, with a countenance beaming with
good-will to, and belief in, everybody, including himself.  He was
self-possessed; impressively attentive to ladies, both young and old,
and suave to gentlemen; healthy as a wild stag, and happy as a young
cricket, with a budding moustache and a "fluff" on either cheek.  Though
gentle as a lamb in peace, he was said to be a very demon in war, and
bore the not inappropriate name of Firebrand.

"Allow me to introduce my friend, Lieutenant Naranovitsch, Mr
Firebrand, my mother and sister; not too late, I hope," said I, shaking
hands.

"Not at all.  In capital time," replied the young fellow, gaily, as he
bowed to each.  "Allow me, Mrs Childers--take my arm.  The boat is not
far off."

"Boat!" exclaimed my mother, "must we then go to sea?"

"Not exactly," replied Firebrand, with a light laugh, "unless you
dignify Portchester Creek by that name.  The _Nettle_ target-ship lies
there, and we must go on board of her, as it is around and in connection
with her that the various experiments are to be tried, by means of
gunboats, launches, steam-pinnaces, and various other kinds of small
craft."

"How very fortunate that you have such a charming day," said my mother,
whose interest was at once aroused by the youth's cheery manner.  "Do
you expect many people to witness the experiments, Mr Firebrand?"

"About five hundred invitations have been issued," answered the
lieutenant, "and I daresay most of those invited will come.  It is an
occasion of some importance, being the termination of the senior course
of instruction in our Naval Torpedo School here.  I am happy to think,"
he added, with an arch smile, "that an officer of the Russian army will
have such a good opportunity of witnessing what England is preparing for
her enemies."

"It will afford me the greatest pleasure to witness your experiments,"
replied Nicholas, returning the smile with interest, "all the more that
England and Russia are now the best of friends, and shall, I hope, never
again be enemies."

In a few minutes we were conveyed on board the _Nettle_, on whose deck
was a most animated assemblage.  Not only were there present hundreds of
gaily-dressed visitors, and officers, both naval and military, in bright
and varied uniforms, but also a number of Chinese students, whose gaudy
and peculiar garments added novelty as well as brilliancy to the scene.

"Delightful!" murmured Bella, as she listened to the sweet strains of
the Commander-in-chief's band, and gazed dreamily at the sun-flashes
that danced on the glassy water.

"Paradise!" replied Naranovitsch, looking down into her eyes.

"What are they going to do?" asked my mother of young Firebrand, who
kept possession of her during the whole of the proceedings, and
explained everything.

"They are going to illustrate the application of torpedo science to
offensive and defensive warfare," said the lieutenant; and just now I
see they are about to send off an outrigger launch to make an attack
with two torpedoes, one on either bow, each being filled with 100 pounds
of gunpowder.  Sometimes gun-cotton is used, but this 100 pounds charge
of powder is quite sufficient to send the vessel in which we stand to
the bottom in five or ten minutes.  Come this way--we shall see the
operations better from this point.  Now, don't be alarmed, there is not
the slightest danger, I assure you.

He spoke in reassuring tones, and led my mother to the side of the ship,
whither I followed them, and became at once absorbed in what was going
on.

The outrigger launch referred to was a goodly-sized boat, fitted with a
small engine and screw propeller.  Its chief peculiarities were two long
poles or spars, which lay along its sides, projecting beyond the bows.
These were the outriggers.  At the projecting end of each spar was fixed
an iron case, bearing some resemblance in shape and size to an elongated
kettle-drum.  These were the torpedoes.  I heard the lieutenant explain
to my mother that if one of these torpedoes chanced to explode where it
hung, it would blow the boat and men to atoms.  To which my mother
replied, "Horrible!" and asked how, in that case, the crew could fire it
and escape.  Whereupon he responded, "You shall see presently."

Another peculiarity in the launch was that it had a species of iron hood
or shield, like a broad and low sentry-box, from behind which protection
the few men who formed her crew could steer and work the outriggers and
the galvanic battery, without being exposed.

This little boat seemed to me like a vicious wasp, as it left the side
of the ship with a rapid throbbing of its engine and twirling of its
miniature screw.

When at a sufficient distance from the ship, an order was given by the
officer in charge.  Immediately the outrigger on the right or starboard
side was run out by invisible hands to its full extent--apparently
fifteen feet beyond the bow of the launch; then the inner end of the
outrigger was tilted violently into the air, so that the other end with
its torpedo was thrust down ten feet below the surface of the water.
This, I was told, is about the depth at which an enemy's ship ought to
be struck.  The launch, still going at full speed, was now supposed to
have run so close to the enemy, that the submerged torpedo was about to
strike her.  Another order was given.  The operator gave the needful
touch to the galvanic battery, which, like the most faithful of
servants, _instantly_ sent a spark to fire the torpedo.

The result was tremendous.  A column of seething mud and water, twenty
feet in diameter, shot full thirty feet into the air, overwhelming the
launch in such a shower that many of the unprofessional spectators
imagined she was lost.  Thus an imaginary ironclad was sent, with a
tremendous hole in her, to the bottom of the sea.

That this is no _imaginary_ result will be seen in the sequel of our
tale.

"Why, the shock has made the _Nettle_ herself tremble!"  I exclaimed, in
surprise.

"Oh, the poor boat!" cried my mother.

"No fear of the boat," said young Firebrand, "and as to the _Nettle_--
why, my good fellow, I have felt our greatest ironclad, the mighty
_Thunderer_, of which I have the honour to be an officer, quiver
slightly from the explosion of a mere five-pounds torpedo discharged
close alongside.  Few people have an adequate conception of the power of
explosives, and still fewer, I believe, understand the nature of the
powers by which they are at all times surrounded.  That 100-pounds
torpedo, for instance, which has only caused us to quiver, would have
blown a hole in our most powerful ship if fired in _contact_ with it,
and yet the _cushion of water_ between it and the tiny launch that fired
it is so tough as to be quite a sufficient protection to the boat, as
you see."

We did indeed "see," for the waspish little boat emerged from the deluge
she had raised and, steaming swiftly on, turned round and retraced her
track.  On reaching about the same position as to the _Nettle_, she
repeated the experiment with her second torpedo.

"Splendid!" exclaimed young Naranovitsch, whose military ardour was
aroused.

"It means, does it not," said Bella, "a splendid ship destroyed, and
some hundreds of lives lost?"

"Well--yes--" said Nicholas, hesitatingly; "but of course it does not
always follow, you know, that so _many_ lives--"

He paused, and smiled with a perplexed look.  Bella smiled dubiously,
and shook her head, for it did not appear to either of them that the
exact number of lives lost had much to do with the question.  A sudden
movement of the visitors to the other side of the ship stopped the
conversation.

Alphons. We should not remain in peace! DC will help us if we have to
think, to exercise our bravery an enemy, to exercise the patience of a
friend. Antonio. The first duty of the people, food and drink to choose
because it so closely the nature of the animal is not as limited, he met?
And can he not much more like a child from all irritate what flatters
the palate? When he mixes water in his wine? spices, sweet things, strong
drinks, One of the other loops it hastily, and then lamented his dull
mind, His fiery blood, his nature too violently, he Schilt on the
nature and skill.

How bitter and how thöricht hab 'I do not often with his right doctors
sehn; To laugh almost wär 'some ridiculous What a man tortures and
other plagues. "I feel this bad," he says bänglich And fully annoyance:
"What you boast your art? Creates convalescent me!" - Good! allows the
doctor to avoid the Sun and das - "I can not." - So fear this potion .--
"Oh no!

The Horrible taste, he shocked me to nature." - for example drinking
water. - "Water? never!

I'm so afraid of water as a Gebissner." - This is not to help you .--
"And why?" - The evil is always with evils accumulate And if you can
not kill just more and more with each passing day you torment .-- "Schön!
What are you a doctor? You know my bad, you should also know the
resources, they also make delicious that I have not yet, only the
suffering going to be legally must suffer.

"You smile and of course it is certainly, you've probably heard
from his mouth?

Alphons. I've heard it often and often excused. Antonio. It is certainly
a ungemäßigt life, how serious we are , wild dreams are our last
power on bright days dreaming. What is his suspicion, unlike a dream?
Where is he believes he is surrounded by enemies. His talent, nobody
can sehn, The neidet him, nobody envied him, hates him, the bitter
and pursued him.

He often harassed with complaints thee: Erbrochne castles, aufgefangne
Letters, And poison and dagger! Everything before it floats!

You have examined, investigated, and what have you found? Hardly the form.
The protection of any prince makes sure none of the bosom friend may
refresh him. And do you want such a peace and happiness, you
want it most joy you promise? Alphons. You did right, Antonio, where he
I am looking for my next advantage wanted! While it is my
advantage that I have not the benefit expect grad and unconditionally.
Not everything serve us in the same way, Who wants to do much, in its
use of any kind, he is well served.

The have taught us the Medicis, the Popes have given us even
punished. What is forbearance, which princely patience and patience,
these men, some great talent, the rich do not need grace, and yet
seemed needed! Antonio. Those who do not know, my Prince? Teaches effort
of the life of us all appreciate life goods. So young he has
already achieved much, as frugal that he could enjoy. O, should
'he buy what he now With open hands angebothen is: He brought his forces
to male And felt himself step by step content. A poor gentleman
has been the target of his desire to best if it a noble lord on
his election Hofgenossen wants him and the weakness with a mild hand
cut. Give him yet Vertraun and wants to favor and to his other side
Before him raise it's at war, Let's shops or in conversation, Sun, dächt
'I could be the man bescheidne His luck with silent gratitude worship.
And Tasso has everything this still the best of luck to the young: The
fact that it already recognizes his mother and hopes on him. O believe
me, his disaffection capricious rests on the broad cushions of his
happiness.

He dismissed him graciously, give him time in Rome and in Naples where he
wants to see the what he misses here, and what he can not play.

Alphons. Will he return after Ferrara gehn? Antonio. He wants to dwell
in Belriguardo. The most essential, what he needs to travel, Is he a
friend sent. Alphons.

I'm satisfied. My sister goes to her friend with the same back, and riding
Werd 'ich in front of them still at home. You follow us soon if
you care for him.

The warden befiehl which required that he remain at the palace as long
as he wants so long, until his friends sent him the luggage until we
send him letters, I was asking him to Rome'm willing to give. He is
coming! Leb 'wohl! Second appearance Alphons. Tasso. Tasso (with
restraint).

The grace that you so often I proved myself today Erscheinet in
full light: You have forgiven what is happening in your area I
unwisely and committed sacrilegious; You searched the adversary
reconciles me, you want to allow me some time from your side me
remove, I want your favor magnanimously reserved.

I am now completely distinct Vertraun, And hope still, I should be
little time to heal from all what I am now beklemmt. It shall be my
spirit rise anew And the way I pleased and boldly, encouraged by
your view, first entered, Getting your favor would make anew.

Alphons. I wish you luck on your journey and hope that you are
completely happy and healed We'll come back. You bring us the double-winners
for every hour that you now withdraw, happily back. I'll give you
letters to my people, your friends on to Rome and hope very much that
you have to keep trusting my everywhere like, such as I As you mine,
although removed, certainly consider. Tasso. besiege you, O Lord, with
the grace, the feel is unworthy and even to thank at this moment can
not. Instead of the open Danks' I have a request! most is my poem
at heart. I've done a lot and no trouble and no hard savings alone it
will remain Too much back to me yet. I want there, Where even the
spirit of great men hovers, hovers And effectively, there möcht 'I
look into the new school Asc me go: Worthy enjoyed your applause, my
song. O, give me back the leaves, which I now just ashamed in your hands
white! Alphons. You will not me on that day take me What you hardly at
this day brought. Lass between between you and your poem I joined as a
mediator: Hats thee, strict diligence by the gentle nature to offend
the Reimen in your lives, And do not listen on the advice from all
sides! The changing of ideas of many different people, in life itself
And in the contrary opinion, sums up the poet in one clever and not afraid,
Gar many to be displeased that he had some To the more may have
fallen. But I am not saying that you were not here and because decisions
will need to file your test; promise you at the same time: In a
short time you get off your poem.

It remains on your hand in my hands, That I with its only my sisters
let me quite happy . A complete bringest you back then: We will get
more enjoyment of friends and you just At some point as friends warn.
Tasso. I repeat only ashamed to ask: Let me copy a hurry! Rests entirely
on my mind this works now. Now it must be what it may be. Alphons. I
approve the train, you are inspired!

But Tasso good if it were possible, So you should have only a short
time the free world enjoy, you dispel your blood through a cure
improve.

Granted you like the beautiful harmony of meaning produced what you now
in the murky zeal only looking in vain.

Tasso. My Lord, it seems, but I'm healthy, if I can show my diligence,
And it makes me hard again healthy. You've seen me round: I am probably
not in free opulence. Mir is the minimum rest Ruh Am. This mind is not
determined by nature, I feel 'it, unfortunately, a soft element to
the daily ins glad ocean swim the times added.

Alphons.

Führet you everything you meaningful and drift, deep in yourself it is
all around us Gar some precipice, the fate of the grub, but here in our
hearts is the deep, and irritating, it is going to fall. I ask you,
you grab yourself! Man wins, which the poet loses. Tasso. I consider this
in vain to urge, The day and night in my bosom move. If I do not ponder
or be dense, Sun Life is not my life anymore. Forbid you the silk
worm to spin, if he is already closer to the death of spins: The
delectable tissues' it develops from its core, and can not, Till in
his coffin is included. O, geb 'a good God even dereinst The
enviable fate of the worm, the new Sonnental the wings rapidly and
joyfully unfold!

Alphons. Listen to me ! You give so many benefit from the double life;
lern ', I pray thee, the value of life, And you still possess ten
times as rich.

Farewell! The sooner you come to us back kehrst, more beautiful you
are welcome. Third appearance Tasso (alone).

So hold out my heart, so it was quite, it is difficult to you, it is
the first time that so you like and adjust it. You probably heard: That
was not his mind, Those were not his words; it seemed to me,
as Antonio's voice just sounds contradictory. O give only eight! You
will now continue to hear from all sides. Festival only! For a moment
it's still to be done.

Who late in life to keep learning It has the appearance of honesty
ahead. It is already go, you just practice with them. (After a
pause.)

Du triumphierst too early, then they come here! Holde The princess is
coming! O what a feeling!

It occurs in, it triggers in my bosom annoyance and suspicion in pain.
Fourth appearance princess. Tasso. Towards the end of the performance
the rest. Princess. You think us to leave or stay in Rather Belriguardo
still want you back And then we remove Tasso? I hope only for a
short time. You go to Rome? Tasso. I directed my way first then, and take
my friends I'm kind of how I hope it may, Sun leg 'because I care and
patience Maybe the last hand to my poem. I think many men gathered
there, the master of all types are called allowed. And speaking of that
first city in the world Not every place, not every stone to us, how many
thousands of teachers waving in silent majesty seriously friendly
to us! completely 'I'm not my poem, so's I can never finish. Unfortunately,
ah, already feel 'I, I will never enterprises luck!

Change', I never finish. I feel, I feel 'it seems that the great art, all
the feeds, which strengthens the mind healthy and refreshed is basically
directed me to, distribute it myself. I hurry away! After Napel I will
soon! Princess. Darfst you dare? Even the strict ban is not lifted,
along with the thee thy father met. Tasso. Warn you right, I've
already considered. Disguises geh 'ich out the poor pilgrim or Rock
Des Schäfers zieh 'I suppose.

I Play through the city, where the movement of thousands of one easily
hides.

I hurry after the bank, then find a barge with the same good people
willingly, with farmers who came to the market, now go home, people
of Sorrento, because I have to Sorrento hinübereilen. where my
sister lives, the pain with me The joy of my parents.

In the ships, I am quiet, and then stand silently also to the
country, I The path gently go up and the gates to ask myself: Where
does Cornelia?

Show me it! Cornelia Sersale? Send me a friendly sign Spinnerinn the road,
it Designates my house.

To increase 'I continued. The children run alongside and watch the wild
hair, the dark stranger to. So come I to the threshold. The door
is open already, there are 'I said in the house - princess. View' on o
Tasso, if it is possible to Recognize the danger in which you float,
I spare you, because otherwise würd 'I say: Is it noble to talk
about how you speak? Is it noble, just to be alone to think of
you as friends grieved heart not? Is it hidden from thee as my
brother is thinking how both sisters you appreciate?

Hast thou not felt and recognized? Is everything because in little
moments Changes? Tasso! If you want to distinguish, So let us not
worry and pain returned. (Tasso turns away.) Princess. How comforting
it is, a friends, on a short time to travel, a small gift to give, be
it only a new coat or a weapon! you can not give, for you unwillingly
throw everything away, what you possess. The scallop and black coat, the
long rod election and you go voluntarily poor and then take us away,
What you do with us alone could enjoy. Tasso. How do you want me not
altogether failed? O sweet word, o beautiful, expensive consolation!

Represents me! Take me in your protection on! - Belriguardo Leave me
here, move me after Consandoli wherever you want! It has so many beautiful
Prince Castle, Garden To some, the whole year to wait, and you go
to him a little day, perhaps only an hour.

Yes, wählet the most distant from the whole in her years of not visiting
it, and perhaps without having to worry now is: It sends me out! There
let me be yours! How will I care for your trees!

The lemons in the autumn with boards and covered with bricks, And
verbundnem tubes with well maintained, it will be beautiful flowers
in the gardens, the broad roots, pure and delicate for each course and
each spot. And let me also the concern of the palace! I want at the
right time to open the windows, that moisture is not the paintings pity;
The beautifully decorated with stucco walls Will I with a gentle cleanse
Wedel; It should screed shine bright and clean; There is no stone, no
brick is moving, it should be no grass to germinate from a
crack! princess. I find no advice in my bosom, And find no solace for you
and - us. My eye looks around, if not a god of us would like to
help, let me discover a healing herb, a potion, your sense of peace
would bring us peace.

The faithful word, which flows from the lip, the best cure is not more
funding. I must leave thee, and leave you My heart can not. Tasso.

My god, it's but, with you and talk to your pity? And did you misjudge the
noble heart? Was it possible that in their presence, the faint you took
and beat you? No, no, you're it! And now, I'm there too. O go away
and leave me any consolation to hear from your mouth! Your Council does
not deprive me!

O say, what should I do So your brother can forgive me So you have forgiven
me happy like, order it again to me with your joy may understand count?
Tell me! Princess.

Gar bit is what we require of thee, And yet it seems to be too much.
Thou shalt thyself kindly leave us. We want nothing from you what
you're not, If you only until you complacency with you.

You make us happy, if thou hast joy, And you only sadden us, if you flee,
And if you make us impatient, it is just that we want to help you, And,
alas! Sehn, that is not to help, even if you do not friend's hand, take,
eagerly ausgereckt, you will not be achieved. Tasso. You're it yourself,
like you, for the first time, a Holy Angels, did me! Verzeih the dull
gaze of mortals, at moments when he misjudged you. He knows you again!
Ganz opened to the soul, just to worship you forever. It completely
fills up the heart of tenderness - it's you, it stands before me. What a
feeling! Aberration is it, what attracts me to you?

Is it rage? Is it an elevated sense of only the highest, purest truth
summarizes Yes, it is the feeling that I'm alone on this earth can make
happy, That I alone could be so miserable, when I resisted him, and
from the heart, it wanted to ban .

This passion Gedacht 'I fight, fought and fought with my deepest being,
destroyed cheeky My own self, where you really belong - princess. If
I were you, Tasso longer be heard, So even the glow, which frightens
me.

Tasso. Restricts the rim of a wine cup, the foamy wallt and brausend
überschwillt? With every word you increase my happiness, with every
word Your eyes shine brighter.

I feel inwardly changed, I feel drained of all the hardship, Clear
like a God, and all thanks to 'I tell you!

unspeakable violence which dominated me, Entfließet your lips, yes,
you make me your very own.

Nothing belongs to me from all my future, I am me. It clouds my eyes in
happiness and light, it varies my mind.

Me, the foot no longer work. Irresistible draw me to thee, And unstoppable
urges you to my heart. You have me forever won thee, To take because my
whole being there! (He falls into her arms and pushes them finds itself.)
princess (is it from colliding and rushed out). overruling! Leonore
(which is already a while in fact seen, herbeieilend). What happened?
Tasso! Tasso! (It is after the princess.) Tasso (in concept, to follow
them). O God! Alphons (which is already a long time with Antonio
approached). It comes from your senses, stop him. (Ab) Fifth appearance
Tasso. Antonio. Antonio.
What think you, Mr Whitlaw?"  I said, addressing my
skipper.

"I hope we shall, sir," replied the skipper, with a deferential touch of
his cap, and a glance round the horizon; "but I don't feel sure."

Mr Whitlaw was an American, and a splendid specimen of the nation to
which he belonged,--tall, lanky, broad-shouldered, gentlemanly, grave,
self-possessed, prompt, good-humoured: I have seldom met a more
agreeable man.  He had been in the Northern navy of America during the
last war, and had already introduced some of the discipline, to which he
had been accustomed, amongst my small crew.

Bella was up on deck enjoying the sunset; so was my mother.  Lancey was
busy cleaning my fowling-piece, near the companion-hatch.

"It is charming," exclaimed my mother.

"So calm," said Bella.

"And settled-looking," remarked Nicholas, flipping the end of his cigar
over the side.

"Mr Whitlaw does not appear to think so favourably of the weather," I
remarked.

The skipper, looking gravely at a particular point on the horizon, said,
in a quiet tone--

"The clouds are heavy."

"From which you judge that the fine weather may not last?"

"It may be so, but the indications are not certain," was his cautious
reply.

That night we were in a perfect chaos of wind and water.  The
storm-fiend seemed to have reserved all his favours in order to give us
a befitting reception.  The sea roared, the wind yelled, the yacht--but
why repeat the oft-told tale that invariably ends with "Biscay, O!"  A
week later and we were in a dead calm, revelling in warmth, bathed in
sunshine, within the straits of Gibraltar.

It was evening.  All sail was set.  Not a puff of wind rendered that
display available.  The reef-points pattered as the yacht rolled
gracefully from side to side on the gentle heave of the Mediterranean's
bosom.

Sitting on a rug on the deck, between my mother and Nicholas, Bella
said, in a low quiet tone, "This is perfect felicity."

"Agreed," said Nicholas, in a similar tone, with a puff from his cigar.

Bella referred to the calm, of course!

A sea-captain, sitting astride the bulwarks of his ship in the
"Doldrums," far far away from Bella, said, in reference to a similar
calm which had beset him for three weeks, "This is perfectly maddening,"
with many other strong expressions which we would rather not record; but
Bella, of course, did not know that, and could not be expected to
reflect on it.  She was taken up with her own comforts at the time.

"My dear," said Mrs Childers, "I think I shall go to bed.  Come with
me.  Good-night, Nicholas.  Will you keep the skylight off to-night,
Jeffry?  It was too hot in our cabin last night."

"Of course I will," said I; "why did you not ring, and let me know that
you would like fresh air?  But I shall see to it to-night."

About eleven o'clock that night, I lay on one of the lockers of the main
cabin, in a wakeful mood.  Nicholas lay on the other locker, in that
profound slumber which is so characteristic of healthy youth.  His
regular breathing was the only sound I heard, except the soft footfall
of our skipper, as he slowly paced the deck.

Presently I heard another step.  It advanced, and a low "Fine night,
sir," apprised me that it was Lancey, who had come on deck to air
himself after the culinary and other labours of the day, for he served
in the capacity of cook and steward to the yacht.

"I wish you'd tell me about that expedition you was speakin' off to the
master this morning," said Lancey.

"With pleasure," replied the skipper; "sit down here, and I'll spin it
off to you right away."

I knew by the sound of their motions that they had seated themselves at
the foot of the main-mast, just between the skylights of the two cabins,
and feared that their talk might disturb my mother; but, reflecting that
she must have got to sleep long ago, I thought it better not to disturb
them, unless their talk should become too loud.  As for myself, in my
wakeful mood, their converse could not annoy me.  After a time it began
to interest me deeply.

"It was about the blowing-up of Southern ironclads, was it not?" said
the skipper.  As he spoke I could distinctly hear the puff, puff, of his
pipe between each half-dozen words.

"_Just_ so," replied Lancey.  "The master is uncommon fond of
blowin's-up and inquirin' into the natur' of things.  I never know'd
another except one as beat 'im at inwestigation, but that one beat
everybody I ever seen or heard of.  He was a Scotch boy, named Sandy--"

"What was his other name?" asked the skipper.

"'Aven't a notion," replied Lancey.  "We never called 'im anythink else.
I don't believe he 'ad any other name.  He said he was the son of an
apothecary.  No doubt the schoolmaster knew 'is other name, if he 'ad
one, but he never used it, and we boys were content with Sandy.  That
boy, sir, seemed to me to know everythink, and was able, I believe, to
do hanythink.  He was a tremendous fighter, too, though not out o' the
way as regards size.  He could lick the biggest boy in the school, and
when he made up his mind to do a thing, nothin' on earth could stop him
a-doin' of it."

"Good," said the skipper, with an emphatic puff; "that's what we
Americans call the power to go ahead.  Did Sandy become a great man?"

"Don't know," answered Lancey.  "He went a'ead too fast for me to
foller.  One day the master gave 'im a lickin'.  He vowed he'd be
revenged.  Next mornin' early he got up an' smashed the school winders,
redooced the master's desk to matchwood, an' walked away whistlin'.  I
never seed 'im since."

"Nor heard of him?"

"Nor 'eard of 'im."

"That was a pity," said the skipper, with a prolonged whiff.

"It was.  But go on, Mister Whitlaw, with your hanecdotes.  I couldn't
rightly hear all you said to the master."

"It was about torpedo warfare we were talking," said the skipper.  "You
know that sort o' thing is only in its infancy, but the Americans, as
usual, had the honour of starting it fairly into being."

"The `honour,' eh?" said Lancey; "h'm! well, I'm not so sure about the
honour, but go on."

"Well, whether it be an honour or no, I won't dispute," returned the
skipper, with a puff; "but of this I am sure, that during the late war
between the North and South in America, torpedo practice was regularly
brought into play for the first time, and the case which I brought
before Mr Childers yesterday is only one of many which I could
describe.  I'll not relate the same story, but another and a better.

"About the beginning of the war, in 1862, the Confederates--these were
the Southern men--blew up our ironclad, the _Cairo_, in which I lost one
of my most intimate friends; and in 1864 they attempted to blow up the
_Wabash_, and myself along with it.  The _Cairo_ business was caused by
sunk torpedoes.  She was going up the Yazoo river at the time, and had
lowered a boat to search for torpedoes, which were known to be sunk
there.  They succeeded in fishing up one, which was found to be an
exploded one.  Meanwhile the _Cairo_, having got rather too close in
shore, backed out towards the middle of the stream, when two explosions
occurred in quick succession, one close to the port-quarter, the other
under the port-bow.  The effect was tremendous.  Some of the heavy guns
were actually lifted from the deck.  The captain instantly shoved the
_Cairo_ on the bank, and got a hawser out to a tree to keep her, if
possible, from sinking in deep water.  The pumps, steam and hand, were
set going immediately; but her whole frame, ironclad though she was, had
been so shattered, that nothing could save her.  Twelve minutes
afterwards she slipped down into six fathoms water, giving them barely
time to get out the boats and save the sick men aboard, and the arms.
My friend was one of the sick, and the moving was ultimately the death
of him, though no lives were lost at the time."

"You're not tellin' me crackers, are you?" said Lancey, in an
incredulous tone.

"My good fellow," returned the skipper, "I wish that I were.  The story
is only too true, and I would it were the only one of the sort I had to
tell.  You can find a book in London, [see note 1] if you like, which
tells all about this and the other torpedo work done during the late
American war."

"Well, then," said Lancey, in the tone of an eager listener, while, by
the tapping on the combings of the hatchway, I could distinguish that he
was emptying his pipe, with a view, no doubt, to the enjoyment of
another, "and what happened when they tried to blow _you_ up?"

"Well, you must know," resumed the skipper, "it was long afterwards,
near the end of the war.  I was in the US steamer _Wabash_ at the time.
We were at anchor off Charleston, and we kept a sharp look-out at that
time, for it was a very different state of things from the wooden-wall
warfare that Nelson used to carry on.  Why, we never turned in a night
without a half sort of expectation of being blown into the sky before
morning.  It was uneasy work, too, for although American sailors are as
good at _facing_ death as any men, they don't like the notion of death
coming in on them, like a sneak below the waterline, and taking them in
the dark while asleep.  We were always on the alert, and doubly so at
that time, for only a short while previously, the Confederates had sunk
another of our ironclads, the _Housatonic_, with one of their
torpedo-Davids,--little boats that were so called because, compared with
the great ironclads they were meant to attack, they somewhat resembled
David when he went out against Goliath.

"Well, as I said, the _Wabash_ was at anchor, and it was night--not very
late, about ten; but it was very dark.

"Fortunately the deck was in charge that night of a young officer named
Craven, and never was an officer worse named or better deserving to be
called Courage.  He had his wits about him.  At the hour I have named,
he observed something on the starboard-quarter, about 150 yards off.  It
resembled a plank on the water.  In reality it was a torpedo-David.  It
was opposite the main-mast when first observed, going rapidly against
the tide.  At that moment it turned and made straight for the ship.
Craven was up to the mark.  He commenced with volleys of musketry; beat
the gong for the crew to assemble at quarters; rang four bells for the
engine to go ahead; opened fire with the watch and the starboard
battery; and gave orders to slip the cable.

"His orders, you may be sure, were obeyed with promptitude.  The gong
sent every man from his hammock as if he had received an electric shock.
Jack-in-the-box never came out of his box more promptly than each man
shot up the hatchway.  An exaggerated idea of the effect of torpedoes--
if that were possible--had got possession of us.  We were at our
quarters in a moment; the ship moved ahead; the chain slipped; and the
torpedo-boat passed us about forty yards astern.  A round shot from us
at the same moment appeared to strike it.  We cheered.  A second shot
was fired, and appeared to send it to the bottom, for we saw it no more.

"But now _our_ turn came," continued the skipper, refilling his pipe.
"Puff! you see we were not so well situated as the Southerners for the
use of this weapon, for we had to go in to attack their forts, while
they had only to defend themselves, which they did largely with sunk
torpedoes.

"We had long been desirous of revenging their attacks in a similar
fashion, and at last we were successful on the 27th of October.  I had
the good luck to be one of the expedition.  It was risky work, of
course.  We all knew that, but where is the nation worthy of the name
that will not find men for risky work?  People talk about the difference
of courage in nations.  In my opinion that is all gammon.  Most nations
that lie near to one another are pretty much alike as to courage.  In
times of trial among all nations, the men of pluck come to the front,
and the plucky men, be they American, English, French, German, Russian,
or Turk, do pretty much the same thing--they fight like heroes till they
conquer or die."

"Better if they didn't fight at all," remarked Lancey.

"That's true, but if you're attacked you _must_ fight.  Anyhow, on this
particular occasion we attacked the Confederate ironclad ram
_Albemarle_, and sent her to the bottom.  I had volunteered for the duty
with some other men from the squadron, and we started in a steam-launch
under Lieutenant Cushing.  The distance from the mouth of the river to
where the ram lay was about eight miles, the stream averaging 200 yards
in width, and being lined with the enemy's pickets, so that we had to
proceed with the utmost possible caution.  We set out in the dead of
night.  There was a wreck on our way, which was surrounded by schooners,
and we knew that a gun was mounted there to command the bend of the
river.  We had the good luck, however, to pass the pickets and the wreck
without being discovered, and were not hailed until seen by the look-out
of the ram itself.

"Without replying to the hail, we made straight at her under a full head
of steam.  The enemy sprang their rattles, rang their bell, and
commenced firing.  The _Albemarle_ was made fast to a wharf, with a
defence of logs around her about thirty feet from her side.  A chance
fire on the shore enabled us to see this, although the night was
intensely dark, and raining.

"From the report afterwards published by the commander of the
_Albemarle_, it seems that a good look-out had been kept.  The watch
also had been doubled, and when we were seen (about three in the
morning) they were all ready.  After hailing, a brisk fire was opened on
us both by small arms and large guns; but the latter could not be
brought to bear, owing to our being so close, and we partially disturbed
the aim of the former by a dose of canister at close range.  Paymaster
Swan, of the _Otsego_, was wounded near me, and some others.  My own
jacket was cut in many places, and the air seemed full of bullets.

"Our torpedo-boom was out and ready.  Passing close to the _Albemarle_,
we made a complete circle round her, so as to strike her fairly.  Then
Lieutenant Cushing gave the order, and we went straight at her, bows on.
In a moment we struck the logs, just abreast of the quarter-port, with
such force that we leaped half over them, at the same time breasted them
in.  The boom was lowered at once.  `Now, lads, a vigorous pull!' said
Cushing.

"We obeyed, and sent the torpedo right under the overhang of the ship.
It exploded.  At the same instant the _Albemarle's_ great-gun was fired.
A shot seemed to go crashing through the boat, and a dense mass of
water rushed in from the torpedo.  It seemed to me as if heaven and
earth had come together.  Smoke and yells, with continued firing at only
fifteen feet range, followed, in the midst of which I heard the
commander of the ironclad summon us to surrender.  I heard our
lieutenant twice refuse, and then, ordering the men to save themselves,
he jumped into the water.  I followed him, and for some time swam in the
midst of a shower-bath caused by plunging shot and bullets, but not one
of them struck me.  At last I reached the shore, and escaped.

"At the time I thought we must have failed in our purpose, but I was
mistaken.  Though we had lost one boat and some of our men, many of them
being captured, I learned that the _Albemarle_ had sunk in fifteen
minutes after the explosion of the torpedo, only her shield and
smoke-stack being left out of the water to mark the spot where a mighty
iron-clad had succumbed to a few pounds of well-applied gunpowder!"

"If that be so," said Lancey, after a pause and deep sigh, "it seems to
me no manner of use to build ironclads at all, and that it would be
better, as well as cheaper, in time to come, to fight all our battles
with torpedo-boats."

"It may be so," replied the skipper, rising, "but as that is a subject
which is to be settled by wiser heads than ours, and as you have to look
after the ladies' breakfast to-morrow morning, I'd strongly advise you
to turn in."

Lancey took the hint, and as he slept in a berth close to the cabin, I
quickly had nasal assurance that he had thrown care and torpedoes to the
dogs.

It was not so with myself.  Much of the information which Mr Whitlaw
had unconsciously conveyed to me was quite new, for although I had, as a
youth, read and commented on the late American war while it was in
progress, I had not given to its details that amount of close study
which is necessary to the formation of a reasonable judgment.  At first
I could not resist the conviction that my skipper must have been
indulging in a small amount of exaggeration, especially when I reflected
on the great strength and apparent invulnerability of such massive
vessels as our _Thunderer_; but knowing the sedate and truthful
character of Mr Whitlaw, I felt perplexed.  Little did I think at the
time that I should live to see, and that within the year, the truth of
his statements corroborated with my own eyes.  I meditated long that
night on war and its results, as well as the various processes by which
it is carried on; and I had arrived at a number of valuable conclusions,
which I would have given worlds to have been able to jot down at the
moment, when I was overtaken by that which scattered them hopelessly to
the winds: I fell sound asleep!

The rest of this delightful voyage I am compelled to pass over, in order
that I may come to matters of greater importance.

We had reached the neighbourhood of the beautiful town of Nice, when my
dear mother, to my surprise and mortification, suddenly announced that
she could not endure the sea any longer.  She had kept pretty well, she
admitted, and had enjoyed herself, too, except when listening to those
dreadful stories of the captain about the American war, which had
travelled to her down the after-cabin skylight, during wakeful hours of
the night.  Despite appearances, she said she had suffered a good deal.
There was something, she declared, like a dumpling in her throat, which
always seemed about to come up, but wouldn't, and which she constantly
tried to swallow, but couldn't.

In these circumstances, what could I do?  We had meant to land at Nice
in passing.  I now resolved to leave my mother and sister there and
proceed eastward--it might be to Egypt or the Black Sea--with
Naranovitsch.  The latter had ordered his letters to be forwarded to
Nice; we therefore ran into the port, and, while my mother and sister
and I drove to "the Chateau" to see the splendid view from that
commanding position, he went off to the post-office.

On returning to the yacht, we found poor Nicholas in deep distress.  He
had received a letter announcing the death of his father, and requiring
his immediate return to Russia.  As the circumstances admitted of no
delay, and as my mother could not be prevailed on to go farther in the
yacht, it was hastily arranged that she and Bella should return through
France to England, and that Nicholas should take charge of them.

Our plans being fixed, they were at once carried into effect, and the
same evening I found myself alone in my yacht, with no one but the
skipper and crew and the faithful Lancey, to keep me company.

The world was now before me where to choose.  Fernando and Doña Juana who
was the absolute sovereign. CHAPTER IV. _De Dissension that existed in
Spain, and death of Doña Juana._ [Illustration] There were many divisions
that existed in Spain with several parties that began to favor one
Doña Juana, the other his son Carlos, the other his father, and
some others who wanted to come to rule the emperor Maximilian I,
his stepfather, so in 1520 and Spain fought the dying for their
freedom.

Supporters of Charles V in Castilla lifted the banner of independence
and gefes from both parties to provide value to its determinations
went to Doña Juana.

Cardinal Cisneros, then governor and regent of the kingdom, it was
determined that appeal first to the queen to see if we could
leave the hurried circumstances under which the parties had placed the
provinces and individuals to Valladolid.

Iban to address many issues sensitive to the queen, were very unhappy
about not ever get a decent reply to placate the spirits of the
revolutionaries.

But the Cardinal's big talent and governor of all that made her
real advice, succeeded, although at the expense of a tireless work,
placate the turbulence, and shortly after, when the King died
Fernando el Católico, Spain began to govern the Emperor Charles V,
not to be able to do so, his mother, Doña Juana.

And engaged in other thinking this lady who had come to acibarar but
his miserable life. The Marquis of Denia brought the news of his
deceased father, news that put it all finished, endlessly invoking the
names of her husband and their father, so strong and descompasados
cries, that he sometimes feared by all his life. No lady or gentleman,
and was afraid to stay alone at his side.

His bloodied eyes, her face bare, her hair down, all inspired horror.
This sad state spent the rest of his life unhappy queen in the
palace of Tordesillas, which was forty-six years struggling with
what we all know, not otherwise exist in his imagination to the
memory of his beloved father and the jealousy of her husband
idolatrada.

After meeting the beds that have just referred, the remainder of his
life, despite the long and terrible suffering, was long, did not offer
new, noteworthy. The queen of Spain, Doña Juana, his days stretched to
seventy-three years, without his incurably ill could find a remedy,
but in recent months worsened estraordinariamente. He never had another
kind of ailment, so that Philip the Fair having lived long, had to
come to spy on her with this evil queen, earn better miramientos.

In early 1555 began to get sick enough consideration; far the
point of not wanting to take any medicine. When forced to the ground or
throw to the face of who was to take. Three months passed this
woman in agony, and not having a person who would like to stay
with him.

Everyone was tired, bored, for osteoporosis. Removed pitiful cries
and voices that were heard in the palace, and everything was done to
reassure was zero, instead of alleviating it, Scythian his anger more
and more. The Marquis of Denia, who was one of those who were continuing
their also wrote to the king, his son, warning him of this,
to which Charles V replied: "_Sufrid resignation with the impertinence
of my poor mother, who he recompensará._ Heaven" The same to them, the
other real people. God wanted to finally pick it under his protection,
but says very little good that die before their understanding perfectly
recovered, and which aroused azorica for the magical effects of a terrible
nightmare, and is immobile and then immersed in a great depression,
so this was a sovereign ... quiet. With dedicated his thoughts to pray
fervently, and at the disposal of his soul, which helped him with
his inimitable zeal San Francisco de Borja, Duke of Gandia, who
he happened to be present at such a terrible act.

The day April 11 1555 and in the same night, which was Holy Thursday,
ending his long and painful existence, where his last words:
'_Jesucristo, acogedme in your seno._ "So ended the Spanish sovereign,
possessed of a passion but lawful, exaggerated. Happen again, that
if the Archduke had existed, would have spied their terrible crime
just to see the incomparable damage it had caused a queen who had
no other crime that blind worship with idolatry.

At that moment a Turk entered.  His position in society I could not at
the time guess, but he had the overbearing manner of one who might have
been raised by favour from a low to a high station.  He pushed Petroff
rudely out of his way, and claimed the entire attention of the shopman,
which was at once and humbly accorded.

A fine expression of fierce contempt flashed across Petroff's
countenance; but to my surprise, he at once drew aside.

When the Turk was served and had gone out, the shopman turned to me.

"After Petroff," I said, bowing towards the man.

The surprise and pleasure of Petroff was evidently great, but he refused
to take advantage of my courtesy, and seemed so overwhelmed with modest
confusion at my persisting that he should be served before me, that he
ultimately left the shop, much to my regret, without making his
purchase.

To my inquiries, the shopman replied that Dobri was the blacksmith of
the place, and one of its best and steadiest workmen.

After completing my purchases I left, and strolled through the village
towards its further extremity.

"The Turks seem to 'ave it all their own way ere, sir," said Lancey, as
we walked along.

"If the treatment we have seen that man receive were the worst of it," I
replied, "the Bulgarians would not have very much to complain of, though
insolence by superiors to inferiors is bad enough.  They have, however,
more than that to bear, Lancey; the story of Bulgarian wrongs is a long
and a very sad one."

As we strolled beyond the village, and were engaged in earnest converse
on this subject, we suddenly came on a group of holiday-makers.  A
number of the peasantry were assembled in a field, engaged in dances,
games, and athletic sports.  We mingled with the crowd and looked on.
They were engaged at the time in a wrestling match.  Little notice was
taken of our appearing, so intent were they on the proceedings.  Two
strong men were engaged in what I may call a tremendous hug.  Each was
stripped to the waist.  Their muscles stood out like those of Hercules,
as they strained and tugged.  At last they went down, one being
undermost, with both shoulder-blades touching the ground, and a loud
cheer greeted the victor as he stood up.

He was a splendid animal, unquestionably--over six feet, with immense
chest and shoulders, and modest withal; but a man of about five feet
eight stepped into the ring, and overthrew him with such ease that a
burst of laughter mingled with the cheer that followed.  The triumph of
the little man was, however, short-lived, for a Bulgarian giant next
made his appearance--evidently a stranger to those present--and after a
prolonged struggle, laid the little man on his back.

For some time this giant strutted about defiantly, and it appeared as if
he were to remain the champion, for no one seemed fit or willing to cope
with him.  At last some gipsy girls who were sitting in front of the
ring, urged one of their tribe, a tall, strong, young fellow, to enter
the lists against the giant.

The youth consented, and entered the ring; but a quick throw from the
giant sent him sprawling, to the great disappointment of his brunette
friends.

Amongst the girls present, there sat a remarkably pretty young woman,
whom the others endeavoured to urge to some course of action, to which
she at first objected.  After a little persuasion, however, she appeared
to give in, and, rising, left the circle.  Soon after she returned with
a magnificent specimen of humanity, whom she pushed into the ring with
evident pride.

It was Dobri Petroff.  The villagers greeted him by name with a ringing
cheer as he advanced.

With a modest laugh he shook his huge antagonist by the hand.

He stripped to the waist, and each man presented a rounded development
of muscular power, which would have done credit to any of the homeric
heroes; but there was a look of grand intelligence and refinement in
Petroff's countenance, which would probably have enlisted the sympathies
of the villagers even if he had been an utter stranger.

Having shaken hands, the wrestlers began to walk round each other,
eagerly looking for a chance to get the "catch."  It seemed at first as
if neither liked to begin, when, suddenly, the Bulgarian turned sharp on
Petroff, and tried a favourite throw; but with the lithe easy motion of
a panther, the blacksmith eluded his grasp.  The excitement of the
spectators became intense, for it now seemed as if the two huge fellows
were well-matched, and that a prolonged struggle was about to take
place.  This, however, was a mistake.  The villagers apparently had
underrated the powers of their own champion, and the gipsy girls looked
anxious, evidently fearing that the hitherto victorious stranger would
again triumph.

For some moments the cautious walk-round continued, then there was a
sudden exclamation of surprise from the crowd, for the blacksmith seized
his adversary by the waist, and with a quick throw, caused him to turn
almost a somersault in the air, and to come down on his back with
stunning violence.

While the heavy fellow lay, as if slightly stunned, on the ground,
Petroff stooped, again shook hands with him, and then lifting him high
in the air, as though he had been but a boy, set him on his feet, and
turned to resume his jacket, amid the enthusiastic cheers of the people.

Petroff's jacket was handed to him by a pretty dark-eyed girl of about
five years of age, who bore so strong a resemblance to the young woman
who had brought the blacksmith on the scene, that I at once set them
down as sisters.  The child looked up in the champion's face with such
innocence that he could not resist the temptation to stoop and kiss her.
Then, taking the little one's hand, he pushed through the crowd and
left the ring.  I observed that the young woman also rose and went with
them.

Feeling interested in these people.  Lancey and I followed, and overtook
them before they had quitted the field.  I said in Russian:--

"Good-day, Petroff; you overthrew that fellow with greater ease than I
had expected."

He is pale and speaks halblaut and quickly.) Flottwell. No, he is not.
(For Betti.)

Go to Lauer! (Betti goes out the door.) Amalie. God, how do you see out!
Flottwell. Like a man who defies his fate.

But still is not my happiness from me genres, because I can speak only
thee. Every minute is imminent.

You have to have with me this night entfliehn. Amalienburg. Impossible,
no! I can not leave the father. Flottwell. You have sworn. Think
of your oath. Amalienburg. But today, and so suddenly - Flottwell. Now
or never! Already long thy servants which I won. Take Laura, and nothing
from your property. Your father is tired, he will soon put to rest,
and if not, verbotne Love is inventive. I harr to you, close to the
city, in the ruined chapel, where we often have taken. Amalienburg.
Will my father ever reconcile?

Flottwell. He wirds. The wide sea, defying his revenge is his pride
territories.

You decide. Amalienburg. Oh, can I live without you - Flottwell. If room
can not, then we are already agreed. Amalienburg. And yet - Flottwell.
Yes! or No! No! is a dagger, you hit me in the heart. Yes! a sun that
shines us to England. Amalienburg. Only one question remains!
(Betti soon.) Betti. The President!

Flottwell. Say quick! Amalie. Expect me.

Fifteenth President Klugheim appearance. Previous. Klugheim (outraged,
strict). What do you want to go with my daughter here? Flottwell.

I was worried. Klugheim (Amalie takes on the left side. Sorrowful).
You are too kind to my house.

Come, my daughter, waiting for the car, then escorted me to the
Baron. My Lord!

You have made us a feast loaded (with nostalgia), and we thank you
with a broken heart for the great joy that you have us prepare. (Takes
from his daughter.) (Betti follows.)

Flottwell (alone). O stubbornness of an old man! What you call it for
disaster on so many people's head. (Wolf occurs.) Wolf Ha! Well, that
you come from. The moment has arrived where you can thank me that I
give you more of a friend was when Mr. bin. I want this night with
Amalien flee to England.

It is free to you, whether you are on the run we want to accompany. Wolf.
Gütger O my Lord! My will is chained to your desire.

And where you hinziehn, I find my home. Flottwell. I have large sums in
the English bank. What I have treasures of gold and can save, I will now
take to me.

What I have in my back still let desks, distribute thou among my servants
but without something to betray. I wish that she find a man like that
it feels good with them than I do. The two sailors on the lake,
which I to this case since a long time have hired, should be ready.

In an hour at most everything should be sorted. Then I expect you
at the old chapel.

Your gift-making in security, its value is known to you. Be careful. I
develop entirely on your faithfulness. (Ab) Sixteenth appearance Wolf.
Wolf (alone).

You ship to England. Günstgen wind! I'm staying here and will put
my ship into port steer. As yet the sun goes up and down! So who is to
be envied? It? the proud, the vaunted patron, the remnants of his
fortune, with the crumbling of mind, the trust must ungetreuen
sea?

or I, the gentle, the humble valet, who still erworbnes humbly into dry
sheep can bring. And to whom I owe this victory? (reflected in the
forehead) you wisdom! most versatile of the goddesses! Nature has given
me only a strong gallbladder, which is not burst with all this
nonsense that I have been five years in this House have seen them.

But wisdom has taught me smile. Oh, it's a great thing to smile!

How many people have their happiness erlächelt and a nitwit, a minute is
a reasonable man to apply if he knows decency to smile.

That's why I want to smile on the pathetic, as long as I still have to
live, and then set up a loud laugh - how grave silence follows. (Ab)
(When he already is in the backdrop, Valentine pushes him back. He has
his Tischlerkaputrock to wachsleinwandenen and a hat on. Parapluie
One and a walking stick tied together under his arm and a small Felleisen
on the back, out of the bag is him short of his pipe tobacco pipe inserted.
He is befuddled, without falter or lallen.) Valentin. Stop! Barbar,
where will you go?

You come not from the Stell. How you can stand under my mistress to
slander?
"Nay," said I, with a laugh, "by its father's nose.  But now that you
mention the eyes, I do recognise the mother's plainly.  How old is he?"

This was the first of a series of questions which opened the hearts of
these people to me.  On the strength of these jet-black eyes and the
well-shaped nose, to say nothing of the colporteur and the Bible, Lancey
and I struck up quite an intimate friendship, insomuch that at parting,
little Dob gave me a familiar dab on the face, and Ivanka turned up her
sweet little mouth to be kissed--quite readily and of her own accord.
There is nothing on earth so captivating as a trustful child.  My heart
was knit to little Ivanka on the spot, and it was plain that little Dob
and Lancey were mutually attracted.

I remained at that village several days longer than I had intended, in
order to cultivate the acquaintance of the blacksmith's family.  During
that time I saw a good deal of the other villagers, and found that
Petroff was by no means a typical specimen.  He was above his compeers
in all respects, except in his own opinion; one of Nature's gentlemen,
in short, who are to be found, not numerously perhaps, but certainly, in
almost every land, with unusual strength of intellect, and breadth of
thought, and power of frame, and force of will, and nobility of
aspiration.  Such men in free countries, become leaders of the good and
brave.  In despotic lands they become either the deliverers of their
country or the pests of society--the terror of rulers, the fomentors of
national discord.  Doubtless, in many cases, where right principles are
brought to bear on them, they learn to submit, and, sometimes, become
mitigators of the evils which they cannot cure.

Most of the other inhabitants of this village, some of whom were
Mohammedans, and some Christians of the Greek Church, were sufficiently
commonplace and uninteresting.  Many of them appeared to be simply lazy
and inert.  Others were kindly enough, but stupid, and some were harsh,
coarse, and cruel, very much as we find the peasantry in other parts of
the world where they are ill-treated or uncared for.

While staying here I had occasion to go on shore one morning, and
witnessed a somewhat remarkable scene in a cafe.

Valentin. She is so insanely in love with him. You do not let him.
Rosa. You must. Since many hats give appearance. They always
come together in secret, the President may not know. That you just say
something nobody. Valentin. I will not betray my Lord. But why does
he invite the Baron Flitterstein today? It is indeed on the list. Rosa.
Because he must. The Lord President would not have come without
him. Drum was already large board yesterday, because today the Miss
Amalie is her birthday.The
Christians were all engrossed, at the moment of our arrival, with a
stranger, who from his appearance and the package of books which lay
open at his side, I at once judged to be a colporteur.  Dobri Petroff, I
observed, was near him, and interested so deeply in what was going on,
that he did not at first perceive us.

Having selected some New Testaments and Bibles from his pack, the
colporteur handed them round for inspection.  These, I found, were
printed in the modern Bulgarian tongue.  The people greatly admired the
binding of the volumes, and began to evince considerable interest in
what the colporteur said about them.  At last he proposed to read, and
as no objection was made, he read and commented on several passages.
Although a German, he spoke Bulgarian fluently, and ere long had aroused
considerable interest, for the people had little or no knowledge of the
Bible; the only one to which they had access being that which lay on the
pulpit of the Greek Church of the village, and which, being written in
the ancient Slavic language, was incomprehensible by them.

"She called him. "Not destroyed, torn apart not only alive, alive at last.
And even if this destruction would Lebendigsein, who am I that I should
look out for me that I should protect? For whom, for what keep me? Where
is the Better, Bigger? Let me be as I am, let me do what I do! "They
saw him for one second with eyes staring at, then broke the gaze and
feuchtete itself. They took a few steps up to him, pressed both hands
against her chest and whispered, deathly pale, "Oh, Robert, it's
terrible!

Terrible! "He surrounded the Fluctuating with his arms and stood there
motionless. After a while she went off smoothly, highlighted with
hand over her hair and said, shocked:" I forget myself completely.

There is much work to me. Good night, Robert. "Quick, she left the room.
* * * * * About a week ago a man had been received, the one without
a uniform, down to the striped shirt on a battlefield in Galicia had
found. He had a shot in the spine, could not speak and no information
about themselves. Still, he was stiff and dagelegen, eyes always on the
same issue addressed in the air. He had an extremely beautiful face,
pale, spiritual, durchformt; a black beard framed it so that the chin
and cheeks were free of hair. Whether he was friend or foe, you knew not.
He wore the number 42, that was all. We talked him into all the languages
of all peoples, which were at war, but he never gave a sign that he
took the words. We suspected that he was also deprived of hearing and
gave him newspapers and labels described before, he did not even
noticed the gesture. Without sigh, without a sound of the action he was
there. Even if this is from a total Teilnahmlosigkeit, yes from an
inner tetanus testified, but his eyes had the highest gloss
preserved, the thinking was.

They were constantly wide open, and as if the muscle movement of
the eyelids no longer worked, they do not for one minute.

The expression in them was not fieberisch it was a mild light, a soul-like
rays, the doctors and nurses on a mysterious attraction exerted. Often
there were several people at the same time at his camp, which for
a short time they were deprived of employment, only to look at this
meet and it noted.

And every night Olivia came to the bed of the wounded, stopped, looked
into the pale face and examined, they too, lost the wonderfully,
wonderfully fulfilling view of the foreign man.

Each night they broke their tour here and stayed as a man who draws
breath and bethinks and solve a sinister mystery is closer than ever
before.

Since this man was in the house since she had perceived these eyes, above
the confused, Done like two wild fine, lonely stars lit, this view had
been that painful-painless, knowing full-unconscious from the spirit
world to penetrate seemed, had their hunting and restlessness
soothed somewhat cruel anguish of mind, they dipped up from the
smoke and turned the Höllenglut her gaze to the sky, perhaps for
the first time in life with the idea and the feeling of God.

There was no other way out than up. * * * * * With thirteen steps durchmaß
Robert Lamm's gable room.

He had calculated that twelve thousand five hundred steps had to cover
a distance of ten kilometers to go. He owned a pedometer with which he
daily passes through certain train.

On some days there were twelve, some fifteen kilometers. The eyes marches
him necessary for the preservation of his health. Also, he could think
better while walking. But the thoughts were in vain. Every time
it dawned to him that he had after the thirteenth step had to be
reversed.

If the ninth, the tenth step, a rebound, an enlightenment promised
the wall, forced to reverse, made all been lost. Five to six hours of
sleep, two to three marching and two to three readings, were still at
least twelve hours, which were empty, twelve maliciously creeping
hours. Every noise in the home, every call, every bell character, every
whisper was a murmur or hostility, but was also a welcome break.

How many there lurked, startled, threatened to out there, because
down there! Encounters fear kept him from the threshold to pass. After
the course of a week he brooded over flight plans. But he knew that
nobody cared for him. A strange pleasure it granted him, the people
themselves to let pass, with which he formerly had considered his
hatred.

It turned out that by this hatred, not much was left, even if
his memory still so rough caricatures painted, he could in those few
people to discover what such a violent feeling would be justified. The
cause was not about that his ability to hate had lost, but that everything
still hatred in him, against a single human being directed alone
against Olivia and unforgiving.

She had forced him, against his conviction to act. They asked him
to betray the last hope that he still cared for to the last, the secret
expectation that he, despite all the world contempt and desolation still
painful in the future was linked. It took until he was acknowledging
this.

He was not the man to such a truth in the face to face. His mind and
sense of life was a neglected province of its existence, and
the dark paths of the soul only guessed it was not comfortable and he
denied it, where it was possible. But now came the past so close to him,
he suddenly knew that he was the picture of a child with lust in
Olivia is recorded, and that the guard and Erzieheramt, which he
exercised him more, and other means had a duty the piety and the
friendship.

Eye and the sensation had deceived him, he would have been tarnished,
they believed betrayed when he of her, of themselves, called by
fate, if he knowingly would have to reach getrachtet that his starved
heart lechzte.

Desire and longing to stifle and suppress, but he served not human,
it darkened it and gouged him. Olivias The figure, the voice, the step,
the gaze, the smile: everything that was how he once had a property,
fruit his effort, deprivation of his pay, compensatory tarnish his
experience, he decided, because profoundly recognized only by him.

For him, made him alive, because he is the magic key to this was,
to grasp the essence of thought.

Your Tun was his, even the apparently reluctant was still in harmony
with him.

When they under his instruction had collapsed - he called it teaching,
although his conscience a harder expression suggested - as they are the
scourge of his words and the paralyzing effect of its judgments by the
flight had withdrawn, he was still months away, they lost to give;
familiar with fatalistic patience to its effect in the distance,
calculated their return, as if they are in dream sleep and the time
would have wanted to wait to the revival was the cheapest.

Their appearance tore it completely out of this fantasy . External
circumstances, which were stronger than anything he could throw the can
Wagschal, had the victory gained over him. A rush of anger seized him
again and again and again as often as he said that in the natural
evolution of things right and remained unchallenged Fluctuating,
groundless him finally into the arms would have led.

Now he had lost, the use was its existence, in many years, stubbornly
and defiantly conceal confidence. He was good at each and every goal
otherwise waived and tough and dumb, just like he did everything
to set a lot.

He was playful, and he knew it now. The same storm, which he had
prophesied, since his male spirit and desire come into conflict with
the Gebre was the time and the people of their sins of omission, was
the flower torn and verweht, which he protected in the most secret
corners of his life had planted garden. There was no appeal possible.
She had him clear enough to understand that any attempt to restrain him
in their eyes to criminal stamped. He could not hope that any human
being, neither male nor female, neither friend nor foe, in his efforts
saw something else as eccentric and cold heart. He had them taking
important, it was then, she could no longer see him and hear that
they had the bloody chaos verdungen and trained in, to be useful and
untold suffering, and would always have to suffer worse, the higher
the tide of horror rose.

There were hours, where he was like a pale rachebrütender vicious and evil
in a corner of his chamber, and crouching in the brain zermarterte
with the idea that he's impotent resentment and his loneliness really
excited unprecedented. It was something Troglodytes around him, it
umwehte him the air of a petrified world, he was like a disembodied
shade, according to a soul searches and can not find it. He felt rejected
and completely forgotten, humiliated and deprived; fieberte and he was
cold, he thought violence pranks, but the idea that he might be needed,
which is to bend and had to throw, he was still no hint genaht. * * * *
* One afternoon, at twilight time he slipped out of the house and went
to Mrs. Khuenbeck. They received him without warmth. He had for years is
not about them, which she wore after him.

It made him even in quiet responsible for everything, what had happened
with Olivia, and when he talk to the girl had, she explained that her
daughter only rarely see. Olivia was indignant when they are in the
hospital visit. A long time had no news of Ferdinand came because she
went and did with Olivia asked whether they learned something. They have
known nothing but have also shown no concern.

You've listened calmly, but in her view had been something, but
was a cold. "Did you perhaps observed," continued Mrs. Khuenbeck
continued, "look, I mean, the look of a possessed? Certainly walk 'me an
injustice if I say something. The people they have to pray. Also I must
admire them, but it has become alien to me. Is that with the right
things? "Silent lamb. It sufficed him that the wife of Olivia said. He
considered it sufficient to encouraging them through a mine spur. "She
now assists with the operations," reported Mrs. Khuenbeck. "She has
learned the drug and such a skill is acquired, that the doctors to
help each other forward. Strygowski Doctor told me it was wonderful;
instinctively bring it exactly the depth of the anesthetic sleep
state, for the case is required.

If one screams or reluctant, so they need only touch him, and he fits.
"" Fairytale, "threw out Robert Lamb." I do not think there is a fairy
tale.

I think it is an inheritance from her father, who also had a magic wand.
Some doctors believe that it refers to a particular dosage of the art
understands. There are surgeons out of town came to whom they should
give an explanation. She could however not explain. "" The ass is
always assumed by the subject as miracles, where altogether are not,
"Lamb remarked dryly.

Khuenbeck woman jerked the armpits. "A soldier said of her: she grabs
a so, that we forget, which represents an imminent. But what does
me? As I said the second-or drittemal there was, I had waiting for
them in the hallway and walked up and down, and because she came
with the bleeding, fresh cut leg of a human being.

It was in a linen beaten, but who can get rid of a picture, if he once
compatriots! I was hurt before the horror, I felt as the child celebrate
a terrible sin. "Robert Lamb face is distorted.

"So one leg, you know, curses is also difficult," he said with a
hoarse voice, "it may be well and enjoy his fifteen kilos of weight."
"This Olivia," cried Mrs. Khuenbeck, "which was so delicate that they
are from table stood up and could not eat when on a lettuce leaf a worm
crawled! What can it still be the world, then?

Can she ever again lead a harmless life, a life with little
obligations? "Lamm stood up. "We will not solve problem today, respected,"
he replied brusquely.

"Our mind is absolutely inadequate to the sad decay process that
we call life. Me, you may not even interpellieren. I confess to
you, I will be amiss if I say yes or no will. I am submitting my speeches
abzugewöhnen; my tongue has not the slightest desire, to articulate
sounds.

A superfluous piece of meat to me in the mouth fault. Tell me yours. "*
* * * * When he was through the corridor of his house in stages, two men
came to him in his way. One doctor was Strygowski, the other, with
extraordinary subtlety was dressed, had a loose upon something aufgeschwemmtes
face, and his countenance betrayed insecurity and arrogance. He remained
in the Hofrat are perfectly ironed lüpfte the cylinder, called his
name with a tone of modesty and intrusive said he was delighted by
the visit of the house, which is a pearl among the hospitals of the
city was, and he was satisfied that this publicly announce them. Lamb
stood stiff as a stick. The others are bowed, smiled for some reason
and was flattered.

Strygowski Doctor said: "One of our leading journalists. Visited hospitals
on behalf of the Red Cross." Lamb nodded. »Do you know the story of
Count Ulrich von Württemberg and the thief?" He asked. »The Count
Ulrich had the habit, often the whole day in front of his palace to
sit and talk with everyone who passed. Once a man slipped out of the
gate, which had in the kitchen inside a fish is stolen and he had a
very short coat, under which the fish hervorhing. Cried him the
Count to himself, and said to him: 'If you steal again fish go,
so put on a long coat or take a shorter fish.'

"Doctor Strygowski laughed. "I think the Council has borne fruit," he
replied. »Our Fish thieves have dealt with sufficiently long coats provide."
Lamb threw a piercing glance at the young doctor. »Doctor Strygowski if
I am not mistaken -?" "Strygowski is my name. I ask for forgiveness,
that I had failed - "Lamb shook his head impatiently. "Nothing, nothing,"
he interrupted the doctor. Then he once again look with almost nonchalance
infringing on its trains, resting. He was captivated by the expression
of the seriousness of being stood up and said: "It would be nice to me
when you in the evening for an hour I would come. I have some questions
for you to judge. "Strygowski doctor replied that he would come as soon
as his time permitted." Herr Doktor, the transportation, "said sister
Nina, who is from the entrance hallway heraufkam. Lamb knew the beautiful,
pale woman Senoner. He greeted cool. The ambulance people arrived with
stretchers. Motionless, the wounded men, with eingesunkenem chest
on the side and bent head.

Their faces were marked by a weathered gray, the blood was pushed through
the associations and stuck to the skin. With dull-infidel surprise,
they saw before him. Everything they perceived, caused them to fear mixed
with excitement, she mused about. Behind the last-makers went
Olivia.

She was in a fairly coarse cloak wrapped, the face was decolourised.
When she saw Robert Lamm, she nodded to him without a smile. * * * *
* It was past eleven clock, as in Strygowski Doctor Robert Lamb took
office. He excused his late coming. Lamb pointed silently to a chair
opposite his chair. "I will about Olivia Khuenbeck to talk to you," he
began without further ado. "Perhaps you know that Olivia throughout
their youth under my care is confessed. I still feel for what they
are doing it. Possible that it is a folly, but it is now true.
How do you assess the suitability Olivias to the profession, she
has chosen here?

"A little surprised at the tone of an interrogation judge replied the
young doctor after a few Consider:" At a verdict or a critique lacks
any power, where something as unusual is done. "" Did she know
from the outset what their response would be if they remained persistently?

There are some things in this remarkable world that no man can
understand.  At all events I cannot.  When I put the same question, long
afterwards, to my dear and ever-sagacious mother, she replied, "Do you
not think, Jeff; that perhaps the men in power, somewhere, wanted it and
caused it?  There are some countries, you know, where the _people_ are
mere chessmen, who have nothing whatever to do or say in the management
of their own affairs, and are knocked about, wisely or foolishly as the
case may be, by the _men in power_.  England herself was in that sad
case once, if we are to believe our school histories, and some of the
European nations seem to be only now struggling slowly out of that
condition, while others are still in bondage."

I think my mother was right.  After much consideration, I have come to
the conclusion that war is usually, though not always, caused by a few
ambitious men in power at the head of enslaved or semi-enslaved nations.
Not always, I repeat, because free nations, being surrounded by savage,
barbarous, and semi-free, are sometimes wheedled, dragged, or forced
into war in spite of themselves.

After the review some of the regiments started directly for the
frontier.

Nicholas Naranovitsch was summoned to the presence of his colonel.
Nicholas was very young and inexperienced; nevertheless, during the
brief period in which he had served, he had shown himself possessed of
so much ability and wisdom that he was already selected to go on a
secret mission.  What that mission was he never told me.  One result of
it, however, was, that he and I had a most unexpected meeting on the
Danube in very peculiar circumstances.


CHAPTER EIGHT.

TREATS OF TORPEDOES, TERRIBLE CATASTROPHE, UNEXPECTED MEETINGS, AND SUCH
LIKE.

To return to my personal experiences.  It now became a matter of the
deepest importance that we should get out of the river before the
Russian army reached its banks and stopped the navigation.  The weather,
however, was against us.  It rained a great deal, and the nights were
very dark.  The swollen current, it is true, was in our favour;
nevertheless, as we had already spent several weeks in ascending the
river, it was clear that we should have to race against time in
retracing our course.

One dark night about the end of May, as we were approaching the Lower
Danube, and speculating on the probability of our getting out in time, I
gave orders to run into a creek and cast anchor, intending to land and
procure a supply of fresh meat, of which we had run short.

"Better wait for daylight, sir," suggested my skipper.  "It's not
unlikely, in these days of torpedoes, that the entrance to places may be
guarded by them."

The skipper was so far right.  The entrance to unimportant creeks,
indeed, had not been guarded, but the Russians had already laid down
many torpedoes in the river to protect them from Turkish ironclads while
engaged in constructing their pontoon bridges.  He had scarcely made the
remark, when I was half stunned by a shock under my feet, which seemed
to rend the yacht asunder.  There followed a terrific report, and the
deck was instantly deluged with water.  There could be no doubt what had
occurred.  We had touched a torpedo, and the yacht was already sinking.
We rushed to our little boat in consternation, but before we could lower
it, our trim little vessel went down, stern foremost.

For a few moments there was a horrible rushing sound in my ears, and I
felt that I could hold my breath no longer when my head rose above the
surface.  I struck out with a gasp of relief, which was, as it were,
echoed close to me.  I looked round, as well as darkness and water would
allow, and observed an object floating near me.  I pushed towards it,
and just as I caught hold, I heard a panting voice exclaim--

"'Eaven be praised!"

"Amen," said I; "is that you, Lancey?"

"It is, sir, an' I'm right glad to 'ear your voice.  Cetch a tight 'old,
sir; it's big enough for two."

"What is it?"  I asked.

"One of the 'en-coops," said Lancey.

"It's too small for two, I fear," said I, seizing hold of it.

"Hall right, sir; it'll 'old us both.  I can swim."

Clinging to our frail support we were hurried by the rapid current we
knew not whither, for, although the moon was in the sky, it was so
covered with black clouds that we could not see whether we were being
swept towards the shore or into the middle of the stream.  Besides this,
the wind was driving the rain and dashing the water into our eyes
continuously.

"Lancey," I gasped, "it is u-useless to let ourselves be--swe--swept
about at the will of chance currents.  The river is very wi-wide.  Let
us place ourselves side by side--and--strike--out--in--the--same--
d'rection.  Uniformity of action--necessary--in desp'r't situations!"

Lancey at once acted on my suggestion, gasping that, "Haction of--of--
hany kind would tend to--to--k-p limbs warm."

We proceeded in silence for some minutes, when I observed the masts and
rigging of several vessels drawn faintly against the dark sky.  They
were considerably to our right, and the current was evidently bearing us
away from them.

"A strong effort now, Lancey," said I, "and we may reach them."

I could feel, as well as see, that my faithful servant exerted himself
to the utmost.

As we approached the vessels, their huge black hulls loomed up out of
the dark surroundings, and were pictured against the sky, which, dark
though it was, had not the intense blackness of the vessels themselves.

We passed the nearest one within twenty yards.

"Let go, sir, and swim for it," cried Lancey.

"No, no!"  I cried earnestly, "never let go your--"

I stopped, for Lancey had already let go, and made a dash for the
nearest ship.  I heard him hail, and saw the flashing of lights for a
moment, then all was dark again and silent, as I was hurried onward.
The feeling of certainty that he could not have been saved with so rapid
a current sweeping him past, filled my mind with intense anxiety.  Just
then I felt a shock.  The hen-coop had been driven against another
vessel, which I had not observed.

I tried to grasp her, but failed.  I uttered a loud cry, not with the
expectation that the crew of the vessel could save me,--that I knew to
be impossible,--but in the hope that they might be ready for Lancey
should he be carried close to them.

Then I was dragged onward by the powerful current, and tossed like a
cork on the river.  I had observed in passing that the vessel was a
Turkish ironclad, and came to the conclusion that I had passed the
Turkish flotilla, which I knew was at that time lying near the fortress
of Matchin.

At the very time that I was being thus driven about by the wild waters,
and praying to God for the deliverance of my comrades and myself--
sometimes audibly, more frequently in spirit--another and a very
different scene was taking place, not far off, on the Roumanian shore.

The wind had fallen; the clouds that covered the moon had just thinned
enough to render darkness visible, and nothing was to be heard save the
continual croaking of the frogs, which are very large and numerous in
the marshes of the Danube, when four boats pushed off and proceeded
quickly, yet quietly, up the river.

No men were visible in these boats, no sails, no oars.  They were "steam
launches," and were destined for a night attack on the flotilla which I
had just passed.  Their crews were covered nearly from stem to stern by
iron bullet-proof awnings, which, as well as the boats, were painted
black.  The engines were so constructed as to make the least possible
amount of noise, and when speed was reduced no sound was heard save a
dull throbbing that was almost drowned by the croaking frogs.

It was a little after midnight when these boats set out--two being meant
to attack, and two to remain in support.  They had seven miles of river
to traverse before reaching the enemy, and it was while they were in the
midst of their voyage that I chanced to meet them, clinging to my
hen-coop.  They came so straight at me that I was on the point of being
run down by the leading boat, when I gave a sharp "halloo!"

It was replied to by one that indicated surprise, and was decidedly
English in tone.  Next moment the launch scraped violently against my
raft, and I saw a hand extended.  Grasping it, I was drawn quickly into
the boat.  Another hand instantly covered my mouth, and I was thrust
down into the bottom of the boat with considerable violence.  Being
allowed to raise myself a little, the chink of a dark lantern was
opened, and the light streamed full upon me.  It at the same time
lighted up several faces, the inquiring eyes of which gazed at me
intently.  A stern voice demanded who I was.

Just then a gleam of light fell on a countenance which gazed at me with
open-mouthed and open-eyed amazement.  It was that of Nicholas
Naranovitsch!  I was just going to answer, when the sight of him struck
me dumb.

Nicholas touched the officer who had questioned me on the shoulder, and
whispered in his ear.  He at once closed the lantern, leaving us all in
total darkness, while Nicholas caught me by the arm, and, making me sit
down on a box of some kind beside him, gave vent to his surprise in
hurried, broken whispers.

A short time sufficed to explain how it was that I came to be there.
Then he began to tell me about his being sent on a secret expedition,
and his having obtained leave to join in this midnight attack by
torpedo-boats, when a low stern order to be silent compelled him to
stop.

From that moment he and I remained perfectly quiet and observant.

After an hour's steaming the Russian launches came to the immediate
neighbourhood of the enemy's flotilla, and the engines were slowed.

Each boat was armed with two torpedoes attached to the end of two long
spars, which moved on pivots, and could also be dipped so that the
torpedoes should be sunk ten feet under water at any moment.  These
torpedoes--each being about twenty inches long, by about fifteen in
diameter--had a double action.  They could be fired by "contact," or, in
the event of that failing, by electricity.  The latter mode could be
accomplished by an electric battery in a little box in the stern of each
boat, with which a long cable, a quarter of an inch thick, of fine wires
twisted together, connected each torpedo.

All this, of course, I learned afterwards.  At the time, sitting in
almost total darkness, I knew nothing more than that we were bound on a
torpedo expedition.  I could scarcely persuade myself that it was not a
dream, but my numbed frame and drenched garments were too real to be
doubted, and then I fancied it must be a special judgment to punish me
for the part I had taken in the improvement of these terrible implements
of war.

Despite the slowing of the engines, and the dead silence that prevailed,
the boats were observed by the Turkish sentinels as we approached.

"Who goes there?" was demanded in the Turkish language.

The launch in which I sat was the first to approach, but the officer in
command took no notice and made no reply.

Again the sentinel challenged--perhaps doubting whether in the darkness
his eyes had not deceived him as well as his ears.  Still no answer was
given.

The darkness was not now quite so intense, and it was evident that
longer concealment was impossible; when, therefore, the challenge was
given a third time, our Russian commander replied, and I thought I
observed a grim smile on his countenance as he said in Turkish,
"Friends!"

The sentinel, however, seeing that we continued to advance, expressed
his disbelief in our friendship by firing at us.

Then there began an uproar the like of which I had never before
conceived.  Being very near the Turkish monitor at the time, we
distinctly heard the clattering of feet, the shout and rush of sailors,
and the hurried commands to prepare for action.  There was no lack of
promptitude or energy on board the vessel.  There was some lack of care
or discipline, however, for I heard the order for the bow gun to be
fired given three times, and heard the click of the answering hammer
three times in little more than as many seconds, betokening a determined
miss-fire.  But if the bow gun _had_ gone off, and sent one of us to the
bottom, there would still have been three boats left to seal the
vessel's fate.

At the fourth order a globe of flame leaped from the iron side of the
monitor and a heavy shot went harmlessly over our heads.  Shouts and
lights in the other vessels showed that the entire flotilla was aroused.

I observed that the launch next to ours drew off and we advanced alone,
while the other two remained well behind, ready to support.  A sharp
fusillade had now been opened on us, and we heard the bullets pattering
on our iron screen like unearthly hail, but in spite of this the launch
darted like a wasp under the monitor's bow.  The torpedoes were arranged
so as to be detached from their spars at any moment and affixed by long
light chains to any part of an attacked ship.  Round a rope hanging from
the bow of the vessel one of these chains was flung, and the torpedo was
dropped from the end of the spar, while the launch shot away, paying out
the electric cable as she went.  But this latter was not required.  The
torpedo swung round by the current and hit the ship with sufficient
violence.  It exploded, and the column of water that instantly burst
from under the monitor half filled and nearly swamped us as we sped
away.  The noise was so great that it nearly drowned for an instant the
shouts, cries, and firing of the Turks.  The whole flotilla now began in
alarm to fire at random on their unseen foes, and sometimes into each
other.

Meanwhile the launches, like vicious mosquitoes, kept dodging about,
struck often, though harmlessly, by small shot, but missed by the large
guns.

Our commander now perceived that the monitor he had hit was sinking,
though slowly, at the bows.  He shouted, therefore, to the second launch
to go at her.  She did so at once; slipped in, under the fire and smoke
that belched from her side, and fixed another torpedo to her stern in
the same manner as the former.  The officer in charge perceived,
however, that the current would not drive it against the ship.  He
therefore shot away for a hundred yards,--the extent of his electric
cable,--and then fired the charge.  A terrible explosion took place.
Parts of the ship were blown into the air, and a huge plank came down on
the Russian launch, like an avenging thunderbolt, pierced the iron
screen, which had so effectually resisted the bullets, and passed
between two sailors without injuring either.  It did no further damage,
however, and when the crew turned to look at their enemy, they saw the
great ironclad in the act of sinking.  In a few minutes nothing of her
was left above water except her masts.  The crew were drowned, with the
exception of a few who escaped by swimming.

By this time it was daybreak, and our danger, within near range of the
other monitors, of course became very great.  Just then an incident
occurred which might have proved fatal to us.  Our screw fouled, and the
boat became unmanageable.  Observing this, a Turkish launch from one of
the monitors bore down upon us.  One of our sailors, who chanced to be a
good diver, jumped over the side and cleared the screw.  Meanwhile the
men opened so heavy fire on the enemy's launch that she veered off, and
a few minutes later we were steaming down the Danube towards the place
from which the boats had set forth on their deadly mission.

"That was gloriously done, wasn't it?" said Nicholas to me with
enthusiasm, after the first blaze of excitement began to abate;--"one of
the enemy's biggest ironclads sent to the bottom, with all her crew, at
the trifling expense of two or three hundred pounds' weight of powder,
and not a man injured on our side!"

I looked earnestly in my friend's handsome face for a few seconds.

"Yes," said I, slowly; "many thousands of pounds' worth of human
property destroyed, months of human labour and ingenuity wasted, and
hundreds of young lives sacrificed, to say nothing of relatives bereaved
and souls sent into eternity before their time--truly, if _that_ is
glory, it has been gloriously done!"

"Bah!  Jeff," returned Nicholas, with a smile; "you're not fit to live
in this world, you should have had a special one created for yourself.
But come, let me hear how you came to be voyaging _a la Boyton_ on the
Danube."

We at once began a rapid fire of question and reply.  Among other
things, Nicholas informed me that the two boats which had accomplished
this daring feat were commanded by Lieutenants Dubasoff and Thestakoff,
one with a crew of fourteen, the other of nine, men.

"The world is changing, Nicholas," said I, as we landed.  "That the
wooden walls of Old England have passed away has long been acknowledged
by every one, but it seems to me now that her iron walls are doomed to
extinction, and that ere long the world's war-navies will consist of
nothing but torpedo-boats, and her wars will become simply tournaments
therewith."

"It may be so," said Nicholas gaily, as he led the way to his quarters.
"It may be that extremes shall meet at last, and we shall be reduced by
sheer necessity to universal peace."

"That would be glorious indeed," said I, "though it would have the
uncomfortable effect of leaving you without employment."

"Well, in the meantime," he rejoined, "as you are without employment
just now, you must consider yourself my prisoner, for of course you
cannot remain among us without passport, profession, purpose, or
business of any kind.  To be shot for a spy is your legitimate due just
now.  But we shall want surgeons soon, and newspaper correspondence is
not a bad business in these times; come, I'll see what can be done for
you."


CHAPTER NINE.

IN WHICH LANCEY IS TRIED, SUSPECTED, BLOWN UP, CAPTURED, HALF-HANGED,
DELIVERED, AND ASTONISHED.

We must turn now to poor Lancey, from whom I parted in the waters of the
Danube, but with whose fate and doings I did not become acquainted until
long afterwards.

As I had anticipated, he missed the vessel of the Turkish flotilla
towards which he had struck out, but fortunately succeeded in grappling
the chain cable of that which lay next to it, and the crew of which, as
the reader will recollect, I had roused by a shout in passing.

Lancey soon let the Turks know where he was.  A boat being lowered, he
was taken on board, but it was clear to him that he was regarded with
much suspicion.  They hurried him before the officer in charge of the
deck, who questioned him closely.  The poor fellow now found that his
knowledge of the Turkish language was much slighter than, in the pride
of his heart, while studying with me, he had imagined.  Not only did he
fail to understand what was said to him, but the dropping of h's and the
introduction of r's in wrong places rendered his own efforts at reply
abortive.  In these circumstances one of the sailors who professed to
talk English was sent for.

This man, a fine stalwart Turk, with a bushy black beard, began his
duties as interpreter with the question--

"Hoosyoo?"

"Eh? say that again," said Lancey, with a perplexed look.

"Hoosyoo?" repeated the Moslem, with emphasis.

"Hoosyoo," repeated Lancey slowly.  "Oh, I see," (with a smile of sudden
intelligence,) "who's you?  Just so.  I'm Jacob Lancey, groom in the
family of Mrs Jeff Childers, of Fagend, in the county of Devonshire,
England."

This having been outrageously misunderstood by the Turk, and
misinterpreted to the officer, the next question was--

"Wessyoocumfro?"

"Wessyoocumfro?"

Again Lancey repeated the word, and once more, with a smile of sudden
intelligence, exclaimed, "Ah, I see: w'ere's you come from?  Well, I
last come from the water, 'avin' previously got into it through the
hupsettin' of our boat."

Lancey hereupon detailed the incident which had left him and me
struggling in the water, but the little that was understood by the Turks
was evidently not believed; and no wonder, for by that time the Russians
had been laying down torpedoes in all directions about the Danube, to
prevent the enemy from interfering with their labours at the pontoon
bridges.  The Turkish sailors were thus rendered suspicious of every
unusual circumstance that came under their notice.  When, therefore, a
big, powerful, and rather odd-looking man was found clinging to one of
their cables, they at once set him down as an unsuccessful torpedoist,
and a careful search was instantly made round the vessel as a
precaution.

Meanwhile Lancey was led rather roughly down to the cabin to be
questioned by the captain.

The cabin, although very luxurious in its fittings, was not so richly
ornate as had been anticipated by the English groom, whose conceptions
of everything had been derived from the Arabian Nights' Entertainments,
or rather from a fanciful imagination fed by that romantic work.  The
appearance of the Turkish captain, however, and the brightly-coloured
costume of an officer who sat by his side, were sufficiently striking
and Oriental.

On Lancey being placed before him, the captain turned and said a few
words to the officer at his side, who was a splendid fellow, in the
prime of life, with a square bony frame and red beard, which harmonised,
if it did not contrast, with his scarlet fez and blue tassel.  A rich
Eastern shawl encircled his waist, from the folds of which peeped the
handles of a brace of pistols.

He looked at the dripping Englishman earnestly and sternly for a few
moments, and the slightest tinge of a smile lighted his grave
countenance as he said in broken, but sufficiently fluent English--

"The captin do want you to repeat vat you have say on deck."

Lancey repeated it, with a considerable number of additions, but no
variations.

After translating it all, and listening to something in reply, the
officer turned again to Lancey.

"The captin," he said, with quiet gravity, "bids me tell to you that you
is a liar."

Lancey flushed deeply.  "I would tell _you_," he said, with a frown, "to
tell the captain that 'e's another, on'y that would show I was as
bad-mannered as 'imself."

"If I do tells him zat," returned the officer, "you should have your
head cutted off immediately."

Lancey's indignation having already half-cooled, and his memory being
refreshed just then with some vivid remembrances of the Eastern mode of
summoning black slaves by the clapping of hands, followed by the flying
off of heads or the prompt application of bowstrings to necks, he said,
still however with an offended air--

"Well then, tell 'im what you like, hall I've got to say is that I've
told the plain truth, an' 'e's welcome to believe it or not as 'e
likes."

Without the slightest change in his grave countenance, or his appearing
in the least degree offended by Lancey's free-and-easy manner, the
red-bearded officer again turned to address the captain.  Lancey now
observed that the latter replied with a degree of deferential respect
which seemed unnatural in mere brother officers.

"You is regarded as a spy," said the red-beard, turning once more to
Lancey, and fixing his cold grey eye intently on him, as if to read his
thoughts.

"No, I ain't a spy," returned the unfortunate man, somewhat bitterly,
"nor never mean to be.  'Ang me if you like.  I've nothink more to say."

Neither the captain nor the red-bearded officer replied, but the former
waved his hand, and the two sailors who had led Lancey to the cabin
again seized him and led him away, more roughly than before.  The free
spirit of my poor servant resented this unnecessary rudeness, and he
felt a strong inclination to fight, but discretion, or some faint
remembrance of scimitars and bowstrings, induced him to submit.

Full well did he know what was the fatal doom of a spy, and a sinking of
the heart came over him as he thought of immediate execution.  At the
very least, he counted on being heavily ironed and thrust into the
darkest recesses of the hold.  Great, then, was his surprise when the
man who had at first acted as interpreter took him below and supplied
him with a dry shirt and a pair of trousers.

Thankfully accepting these, and standing between two guns, he put them
on.

"Who is the hofficer with the red beard?" he asked, while thus engaged.

The interpreter seemed unwilling to answer at first, but, on a
repetition of the question replied--

"Pasha."

"Pasha, eh?  Ah, that accounts for the respect of the cap'n--rather
shorter in the legs these 'ere than I could 'ave wished; 'owever,
beggars, they say, mustn't be--well, they're wide enough anyhow.--A
Pasha, is 'e?  Don't look like a sailor, though.  Is 'e a sailor?"

"No," replied the interpreter sharply.

"Well, well, no offence meant," said Lancey, buttoning his shirt.  "If
you don't feel commoonicative _I_ won't trouble you, no more than to
thank 'ee for the shirt an' trousers, which the latter bein' dry is a
blessin', though they air a trifle short in the legs an' wide in the
'ips."

After this Lancey was supplied with food.

While he was eating it he was startled by sudden rushing and shouting,
which was immediately followed by the discharge of musketry on deck.  He
sprang up, and seeing that the Turkish sailors were grasping their arms
and swarming up the hatchways, he mingled with one of the streams.  No
one paid any attention to him.  At that moment he felt a shock which he
afterwards described as resembling an earthquake or the blowing up of a
powder-magazine.  Part of the planking near to where he stood was
shattered.  Some of the guns appeared almost to leap for an instant a
few inches into the air.  Gaining the deck he ascertained that an attack
of Russian torpedo-boats was going on.  It was, in fact, the attack
which I have already described, the monitor by which Lancey was rescued
being that which had been selected by the Russian commander as his
victim.

When the second torpedo exploded, as already described, Lancey was
standing near the gangway, and saw that the men were lowering the boats
in urgent haste, for the vessel was evidently sinking.

"Yoos know 'bout dat," said a stern voice near him.  At the same moment
he was seized by the interpreter and another man, who made an effort to
hurl him into the sea.  But Lancey was strong, and tenacious of life.
Before a third sailor, who was about to aid his comrades, could act, the
red bearded officer appeared with the captain and was about to descend
into the boat when he observed Lancey struggling in the grasp of the
sailors.

"Spy!" he exclaimed in the Turkish tongue, "you must not escape.  Get
into the boat."

The sailors fell back.  Lancey, not sure whether to regard this as
temporary deliverance or his death-warrant, hesitated, but at a sign
from the Pasha he was collared by five or six men and hurled into the
bottom of the boat, where he lay, half-stunned, while they rowed towards
the shore.  Before reaching it, however, he was still doomed to rough
handling, for one of the shots from the large guns, which were fired
almost at random from the flotilla, accidentally struck the boat and
sent it to the bottom.

Lancey was a good swimmer.  The cold water restored him to full vigour,
and he struck out boldly for the shore.  He soon left the boat's crew
behind, with the exception of one man who kept close to his side all the
way.  As they neared the shore, however, this man suddenly cried out
like one who is drowning.  A second time he cried, and the gurgling of
his voice told its own tale.  The stout Englishman could not bear to
leave a human being to perish, whether friend or foe.  He swam towards
the drowning man and supported him till their feet touched bottom.

Then, perceiving that he was able to stagger along unassisted, Lancey
pushed hurriedly from his side in the hope of escaping from any of the
crew who might reach land, for they were evidently the reverse of
friendly.

He landed among a mass of bulrushes.  Staggering through them, and
nearly sinking at every step, he gradually gained firmer footing.

"Ah, Jacob," he muttered to himself, pausing for a few minutes' rest,
"little did you think you'd git into such an 'orrible mess as this w'en
you left 'ome.  Sarves you right for quittin' your native land."

With this comforting reflection he pushed on again, and soon found
himself on a road which led towards a town, or village, whose lights
were distinctly visible.

What should he do?  The village was on the Bulgarian side, and the
natives, if not enemies, would of course become so on learning from any
of the saved men of the monitor who he was.  To swim across the Danube
he felt was, after his recent exertions, impossible.  This and the other
was no more sharp knife to make her lover Philip in the chest.

Stop anyone who has loved here, and consider fever to be eater apoderaria
a character as strong and energetic as that of Doña Juana. Suffering
unspeakable torments, tortures its reason that turbo until dilirio:
not wanting to embrace what they wanted most in the world after her
husband, who were their children. Her face always sad and demudado
revealed the horrific torture that esperimentaba his wandering gaze
seemed to want to distinguish one object, which found its light departed,
improperios is filled with imprecations, ran away from everyone
and not more than Preferia loneliness : This finding distractions,
devoting his thoughts to Felipe, in spite of being unfaithful.

For this reason the Court decided to leave and retire to the Mota of Medina
del Campo, to be intimately convinced that this market would be free
to place observers courtesans, and from there to write to Queen
Elizabeth, her mother, news of its latest resolution, which was
leaving as soon as possible to Flanders for this sort of return to own
the heart of her husband, and soon destroy the love they had deposited
in the Spanish blonde. Queen Elizabeth, before her daughter was aware
of everything, knew perfectly well that this professed ardent love
for her husband, and assuming that his departure might be the
mainspring of a great scandal, tried to prevent his departure,
although the expense of hard work.

Knew that the love relationships of Philip were too new to that as
soon could have a break. So we tried to discourage the idea of leaving,
putting on the pretest found very delicate health, and Also found her
father holding the Courts in Aragon, which so adoring, yet feel
very much that this determination was made without his consent.

Both the Catholic queen and her daughter Dona Juana, carrying their
intention, first, to see if I could without giving scandal, the
love that dash had the fellow in Philip and the second because I
wanted to give a lesson to her husband, confusing his beloved.

No Doña Juana left her mother to write to the object, but had been useless
so far their pleas for permission to this: he had reached the point of
sending the most influential in his court if here have achieved
what you want even at the expense of his life.

Then a sense
of violated justice supervened.  If at that moment Samson's powers had
been his, he would have snapped the ropes that bound him like
packthread, and would have cut the throat of every man around him.  When
he was placed upon the substitute for a "block," and felt by a motion of
his elbows his utter powerlessness, the dogged and indifferent state
came on, but it did not last.  It could not.  His Christian training was
adverse to it.

"Come," he mentally exclaimed, "it is God's will.  Quit you like a man,
Jacob--and die!"

There is no doubt that in this frame the brave fellow would have passed
away if he had not been roused by the loud clattering of horses' feet as
a cavalcade of glittering Turkish officers dashed through the square.
In front of these he observed the red-bearded officer who had acted as
interpreter in the cabin of the Turkish monitor.

There came a sudden gush of hope!  Lancey knew not his name, but in a
voice of thunder he shouted--

"'Elp! 'elp! 'allo!  Pasha!  Redbeard!--"

The executioner hastened his work, and stopped the outcry by tightening
the rope.

But "Redbeard" had heard the cry.  He galloped towards the place of
execution, recognised the supposed spy, and ordered him to be released,
at the same time himself cutting the rope with a sweep of his sword.

The choking sensation which Lancey had begun to feel was instantly
relieved.  The rope was removed from his neck, and he was gently led
from the spot by a soldier of the Pasha's escort, while the Pasha
himself galloped coolly away with his staff.

If Lancey was surprised at the sudden and unexpected nature of his
deliverance, he was still more astonished at the treatment which he
thereafter experienced from the Turks.  He was taken to one of the best
hotels in the town, shown into a handsome suite of apartments, and
otherwise treated with marked respect, while the best of viands and the
choicest of wines were placed before him.

This made him very uncomfortable.  He felt sure that some mistake had
occurred, and would willingly have retired, if possible, to the hotel
kitchen or pantry; but the waiter, to whom he modestly suggested
something of the sort, did not understand a word of English and could
make nothing of Lancey's Turkish.  He merely shook his head and smiled
respectfully, or volunteered some other article of food.  The worthy
groom therefore made up his mind to hold his tongue and enjoy himself as
long as it lasted.

"When I wakes up out o' this remarkable and not unpleasant dream," he
muttered, between the whiffs of his cigarette, one evening after dinner,
"I'll write it out fair, an' 'ave it putt in the _Daily Noos_ or the
_Times_."

And when he on occasion a dance vielumworbene have a young lady, the
daughter of a wealthy factory owner, with striking ease entgegenkam,
and he so suddenly the possibility of a slight connection looked ahead
to his position and his wealth was appropriate, he began the other, like
a cheerful casual adventure started as annoying to feel tethered
to a young man by his virtues should be safe off.

But the smiling peace with him ever again Elise received her always steady
devotion become scarcer in the hours of togetherness, the unsuspecting
security with him from her arms into an unknown world sacked her, all
urged him not only every word of this parting the lips, to which he was
always determined previously believed, but filled him with a kind
of excruciating pity, whose barely conscious utterances such a warm
and trusting wife Elise as a new and intimate character of his
inclination had to appear.

And so it was then that Elise never hotter he adored believed than if
it was a new encounter with Adele, when he durchbebt by the memory
süßfragender glances, hand pressures, and promised in the last
rush of the first secret kisses the bride in that silent, he alone,
and his unfaithful love consecrated had returned home, and instead
of the farewell, which he still carried on the threshold, leaving
the lover Alfred morning with renewed oaths of eternal families.

So the days went by both adventure out at last there was only more decide
which evening for the debate has become inevitable with Elisen would be
better, before or after the engagement with Adele, and the first
of these evenings, because yes is still a time limit before it was
published by Alfred in the habit his double-game almost calmed soul
in the beloved Constitution. He found her pale, as he never before
seen in the corner of the Diwan lean, even she is not as usual at
his admission to his forehead and mouth to Willkommskuß to offer, but
showed a tired, slightly forced smile, so that also with a sense
of relief the presumption in Alfred ascended, the news of his
impending betrothal was, despite all the secrecy after the enigmatic
nature of the rumors are already up to her stocky.

But on his überstürzenden questions that he learned nothing other than
the fact that Elise, what it previously withheld from time to time,
suffer from heart spasms, of which they are otherwise used to
recover quickly, the after-effect but this time more than ever threatened
them. Alfred, in the consciousness of his good intentions to blame, this
opening was so much affected that he is in terms of participation, in
evidence of goodness not enough was done, and before midnight,
without understanding how it got that far, he had Elisen with the
plan a joint trip designed, on which they certainly lasting recovery
from their evil should be coincidences.

[Illustration] Never so tenderly loved, but never so durchtränkt of his
own tenderness had he ever made it as a farewell in the night, so
that he is seriously on the way home a rejection letter to Adele considered,
in which he made his escape Engagements and ties like a bid for a
permanent his luck still not created unsettled nature to apologize
imagined.

The artful Devouring the rates pursued him even to sleep, but the morning
light, through the columns of the blinds on his roof playing, let
him to reconcile effort as foolish as superfluous.

Yes, he was hardly able to marvel that he is the suffering of the
lover verflossenen night traumhaft away seemed like an abandoned, while
Adele blooming bouquet immense longing before his soul was. To noon
he brought nobility to the Father his advertising, which probably very
friendly, but not with complete consent was.

In good-natured mocking allusion to the candidate's youth often tried
to put the father rather the requirement that Alfred may be initially
for one year to go traveling, so the distance in the strength and
resilience to examine his feelings, and he even objected to the
proposal an exchange of letters between the young people to the
possibility of self-deception in this way certainly off to know.

When Alfred with the intentions of today again returned, and when he
at the same sensation Adele wiederfände which they now cherish
convinced that it will be of immediate marriage of the young couple
to his side not in the slightest way.

Alfred, of these conditions, only reluctantly seemed to add, she
is in fact as a new deadline extension of the skills internally
breathe contrary, after a brief and reflect, he said under these
circumstances is already wanting to adopt, it would be even, so
while the end of the required separation time closer heranzurücken.

Adele seemed first of these unexpected docility to be injured, but after
a short interview of the father verstatteten under four eyes had Alfred
then brought his bride, that they love him for his wisdom's sake,
and admired him with oaths of fidelity, even with tears in his eyes
in a dangerous separation distance fired.

Hardly on the road, Alfred already started to consider all sorts of
possibilities in the course of this available to him in a solution to
its relations with Elisen could. And his thirst, the most difficult
issues of life without the active intervention to do was so overpowering
that not only those about his vanity davontrug the victory, but
also the Aufschweben drabber Premonitions was favorable, with his
snivelling like nature otherwise zurückschreckte. In the forced
unusually close together, as the trip has brought, so he thought, it
might well happen that Elise, cool, gradually turns away from him,
and also the heart of the lover was the view on a clearly undesirable
nature of the liberation.

Soon, however, he both hope and fear, with such violent motion of
themselves, that nothing in the end it was the childlike, joyful
expectation of a pleasure trip to the colorful expanse in the company
of a devoted lovable creature, and yet on the evening of same day chatted
it is consistent with the unsuspecting lover in the mood heiterster
delightful prospect of the forthcoming trip.

Since the suit was in the spring, looked Alfred Elisen first with the
mild to the shores of Lake Geneva. Later they went to the cooler mountain
altitudes up, spent the late summer in an English seaside resort, visited
in the fall of Dutch and German cities, to finally the bleaker
weather collapsing under the southern sun consolation to escape.

Until that Elise was not just with the surroundings of Vienna did not
come out was like a delicious Dreaming by the hand of their beloved
leader this year of wonders geschwebt, also Alfred, so clearly he is
always the future to continue with their difficulties only deferred was
aware, had the luck of fellow Elisen like to join the graceful
presence of abandoned safe.

And while he was at the beginning of the journey encounters with
acquaintances carefully sought to avoid it if possible avoided had with
Elisen to bustling promenades and in the dining halls of large hotels to
show he later called with some intentions fate, and was happy to
vote, by a Depesche his bride accused of treason and thus although
an even more hotly awaited possessions, but everything dichotomy,
all anxiety and all the responsibility to be married.

But no news, nor otherwise a message from the home came to him, because
Adele was against Alfreds vain expectation as strict as he himself
referred to the agreement requested by the father. But it was the hour
in which, at least for this miracle Alfred year sudden end, and took a
zauberlos times, yes Oeder than any other, which he experienced at the
time seemed stillezustehen. This occurred in the botanic garden at Palermo
on a bright autumn day, as Elise, which until then are fresh, lively and
prosperous show had suddenly with both hands grabbed at her heart, the
lover looked fearfully and immediately smiled, as if it's as a duty
recognize him no cause to be inconvenient. This, however, instead of
stirring it, filled it with bitterness, which he admittedly being
the face of anxious to conceal knew.

He accused her, without even believe that it certainly has similar
coincidences kept secret several times, gave expression of his
mortification, that she seems heartless for holding conjured them today,
immediately, with him see a doctor, and was quite glad when this proposal
with respect to their low confidence in the salvation of the country
artists rejected.

But when they suddenly as on streaming of gratitude and love, here,
under the open sky, on the bank of the People passed by, his hand
pressed to her lips, he felt, like a flying shaft, through his
hatred Pulse chase, whose presence he even sat in amazement, but
he soon before dealing with the memories of many hours of boredom
and emptiness apologized, in which the journey, as he once thought
to know, was too rich.

At the same time such a flared incandescent desire for nobility in
him that he, too, despite all the arrangements, on the same day a
dispatch sent to them, in which it is a word to Genoa and the
sacrifice he wrote: Your the Ewig. [ Illustration] A few days later,
he found their response in Genoa, which was: And I yours for
ebensolang.

With the wrinkled hand on the heart, which he now questionable, despite
the jocular tone the embodiment of all hopes meant he entered
Elisen accompany the trip to Ceylon, which is expected to be the
most beautiful part of the journey at the end of which was set.

Elise verschlagenerer Gemütsart would have to be as it was when, on this
trip would have been able to guess that only the bold play of
her imagination Alfreds richer delights of Loved One gift than
ever before, and if they had known that they are not even there was
more, now in the silent dark nights at sea was a jibe, but the
distant, with its longing in all of life herbeigezauberte bride
wealth.

But on the island finally reached glowing, in the dull uniformity
of the last stay, because he realized that the latter too fussy
fantasy he wanted the service to fail, he started from Elisen away
and was tricky enough, a slight reminder of the suffering heart,
they enter the first floor of the fixed angewandelt as the cause
of his reticence indicated.

She took it out like anything that came from him, as a sign of love, now
all you sense and all the bliss of being signified. And if, under the
wild splendor blaugoldenen a heaven, it is firmly connected to
geschmiegt and salvaged by the rushing shadows of the forests went, she
knew not that her companion only the lonely hours herbeiwünschte
in it, undisturbed by Elisen, opportunity was flying with feathered
incantatory, scorching words to another at the paper to throw their
lives into the world Elise up to this moment nothing, and never
suspected anything suspect should be.

In such hours of Solo One increased his desire for the remote so powerful,
that the A which is near the end of his hearing, which, with whom
he will soon be a year crossed the world, apart from the features
of the face, so to to the voice could be forgotten. And when he was in
the night before the commencement of the journey home, from the writing
room, take in a new Elise severe seizure half unconscious on the
bed hingestreckt thought, he realized what he usually like a quiet
fear is thought to feel, with mild, almost sweet horror will never
be extinct, dark glowing hope his soul.

Nevertheless, he sent without delay and in a truly painful agitation
after the doctor, who immediately appeared and the patient by a
morphine injection provided relief.

The alleged husband, however, now the journey has become a concern
for important reasons not to defer said he gave a ticket with the
suffering end of the special care of the ship's doctor advised.

Immediately in the first few days seemed to be the sea air on the Elise
benevolent influence. Their pallor disappeared, it was open-minded
beings, their conduct of free, as Alfred ever to her perceived. And
while they used to defend itself against any, even the most
harmless approximation of indifferent foreign side, so defensive
behavior was most common to this conversation, as life on the ships
are brought from far and took the respectful homage of some men
with accompanying satisfaction opposite.

In particular, a German baron, based on the healing waters of a long
suffering lung examined, stayed in Elis near as much, as it is still
without intrusiveness could happen, and Alfred would like to persuade the
depression behavior, the Elise this lovable their admirers
contributed to the review, as the welcome signs of a tendency to
neukeimenden. But when he once Elise apparently angry about
their remarkable ease to the speech tried to make, she said to him
smiling, that all of this oncoming beings towards other aims have nothing
else than the lover to excite jealousy, and they are the successful
list unutterable glad. This could Alfred his impatience, his disappointment
not to hide. He said her confession, which she reassured him and happy
to have believed that with their words of an unfathomable hardship
in dull helplessness they felt they stood for a while until it suddenly
on the roof, where the interview took place, and collapses unconscious
hinuntergetragen in the cabin had to be. The ship's doctor, by the
letter of his colleagues informed enough, gave a more detailed investigation
is not necessary, and brought the tormented heart of the already proven
means temporary relief.
Having now thoroughly resigned himself to the guidance of what his
Turkish friends styled "fate," Lancey did his best to make himself
agreeable, and gave himself up to the enjoyment of the hour.

There were present in the room, besides those already mentioned, a
Turkish colonel of cavalry and a German doctor who spoke Turkish
fluently.  The party sat down to supper on cushions round a very low
table.  The dervish, Hadji Abderhaman, turned out to be a gourmand, as
well as a witty fellow and a buffoon.  The Pasha always gave the signal
to begin to each dish, and between courses the dervish told stories from
the Arabian Nights' Entertainments, or uttered witticisms which kept the
Nubian Pasha in roars of laughter.  They were all very merry, for the
host was fond of boisterous fun and practical jokes, while his guests
were sympathetic.  Lancey laughed as much as any of them, for although
he could not, despite his previous studies, follow the conversation, he
could understand the pantomime, and appreciated the viands highly.  His
red-bearded friend also came to his aid now and then with a few
explanatory remarks in broken English.

At such times the host sat with a beaming smile on his black face, and
his huge mouth half-expanded, looking from one to another, as if
attempting to understand, and ready at a moment's notice to explode in
laughter, or admiration, or enthusiasm, according to circumstances.

"Hamed Pasha wants to know if you is in do army," said Sanda Pasha.

"Not in the regulars," replied Lancey, "but I _'ave_ bin, in the
militia."

The Nubian gave another roar of delight when this was translated, and
extended his great hand to one whom he thenceforth regarded as a
brother-in-arms.  Lancey grasped and shook it warmly.

"Let the Englishman see your sword," said Sanda in Turkish to Hamed.

Sanda knew his friend's weak point.  The sword was at once ordered in
for inspection.

Truly it was a formidable weapon, which might have suited the fist of
Goliath, and was well fitted for the brawny arm that had waved it aloft
many a time in the smoke and din of battle.  It was blunt and hacked on
both edges with frequent use, but its owner would not have it sharpened
on any account, asserting that a stout arm did not require a keen
weapon.

While the attention of the company was taken up with this instrument of
death, the dervish availed himself of the opportunity to secure the
remains of a dish of rich cream, to which he had already applied himself
more than once.

The Nubian observed the sly and somewhat greedy act with a twinkling
eye.  When the dervish had drained the dish, the host filled a glass
full to the brim with vinegar, and, with fierce joviality, bade him
drink it.  The poor man hesitated, and said something about wine and a
mistake, but the Pasha repeated "Drink!" with such a roar, and threw his
sword down at the same time with such a clang on the marble floor, that
the dervish swallowed the draught with almost choking celerity.

The result was immediately obvious on his visage; nevertheless he bore
up bravely, and even cut a sorry joke at his own expense, while the
black giant rolled on his divan, and the tears ran down his swarthy
cheeks.

The dervish was an adventurer who had wandered about the country as an
idle vagabond until the war broke out, when he took to army-contracting
with considerable success.  It was in his capacity of contractor that he
became acquainted with the boisterous black Pasha, who greatly
appreciated his low but ready wit, and delighted in tormenting him.  On
discovering that the dervish was a voracious eater, he pressed--I might
say forced--him with savage hospitality to eat largely of every dish, so
that, when pipes were brought after supper, the poor dervish was more
than satisfied.

"Now, you are in a fit condition to sing," cried Hamed, slapping the
over-fed man on the shoulder; "come, give us a song: the Englishman
would like to hear one of your Arabian melodies."

Redbeard translated this to Lancey, who protested that, "nothink would
afford 'im greater delight."

The dervish was not easily overcome.  Despite his condition, he sang,
well and heartily, a ditty in Arabic, about love and war, which the
Nubian Pasha translated into Turkish for the benefit of the German
doctor, and Sanda Pasha rendered into broken English for Lancey.

But the great event of the evening came, when the English guest, in
obedience to a call, if not a command, from his host, sang an English
ballad.  Lancey had a sweet and tuneful voice, and was prone to indulge
in slow pathetic melodies.  The black Pasha turned out to be intensely
fond of music, and its effect on his emotional spirit was very powerful.
At the first bar of his guest's flowing melody his boisterous humour
vanished: his mouth and eyes partly opened with a look of pleased
surprise; he evidently forgot himself and his company, and when,
although unintelligible to him, the song proceeded in more touching
strains, his capacious chest began to heave and his eyes filled with
tears.  The applause, not only of the host, but the company, was loud
and emphatic, and Lancey was constrained to sing again.  After that the
colonel sang a Turkish war-song.  The colonel's voice was a tremendous
bass, and he sang with such enthusiasm that the hearers were effectively
stirred.  Hamed, in particular, became wild with excitement.  He
half-suited his motions, while beating time, to the action of each
verse, and when, as a climax in the last verse, the colonel gave the
order to "charge!"  Hamed uttered a roar, sprang up, seized his great
sabre, and caused it to whistle over his friends with a sweep that might
have severed the head of an elephant!

At this point, one of the attendants, who appeared to be newly appointed
to his duties, and who had, more than once during the feast, attracted
attention by his stupidity, shrank in some alarm from the side of his
wild master and tumbled over a cushion.

Hamed glared at him for a moment, with a frown that was obviously not
put on, and half-raised the sabre as if about to cut him down.
Instantly the frown changed to a look of contempt, and almost as quickly
was replaced by a gleam of fun.

"Stand forth," said Hamed, dropping the sabre and sitting down.

The man obeyed with prompt anxiety.

"Your name?"

"Mustapha."

"Mustapha," repeated the Pasha, "I observe that you are a capable young
fellow.  You are a man of weight, as the marble floor can testify.  I
appoint you to the office of head steward.  Go, stand up by the door."

The man made a low obeisance and went.

"Let the household servants and slaves pass before their new superior
and do him honour."

With promptitude, and with a gravity that was intensely ludicrous--for
none dared to smile in the presence of Hamed Pasha--the servants of the
establishment, having been summoned, filed before the new steward and
bowed to him.  This ceremony over, Mustapha was ordered to go and make a
list of the poultry.  The poor man was here obliged to confess that he
could not write.

"You can draw?" demanded the Pasha fiercely.

With some hesitation the steward admitted that he could--"a little."

"Go then, draw the poultry, every cock and hen and chicken," said the
Pasha, with a wave of his hand which dismissed the household servants
and sent the luckless steward to his task.

After this pipes were refilled, fresh stories were told, and more songs
were sung.  After a considerable time Mustapha returned with a large
sheet of paper covered with hieroglyphics.  The man looked timid as he
approached and presented it to his master.

The Pasha seized the sheet.  "What have we here?" he demanded sternly.

The man said it was portraits of the cocks and hens.

"Ha!" exclaimed the Pasha, "a portrait-gallery of poultry--eh!"

He held the sheet at arm's-length, and regarded it with a fierce frown;
but his lips twitched, and suddenly relaxed into a broad grin, causing a
tremendous display of white teeth and red gums.

"Poultry! ha! just so.  What is this?"

He pointed to an object with a curling tail, which Mustapha assured him
was a cock.

"What! a cock? where is the comb?  Who ever heard of a cock without a
comb, eh?  And that, what is that?"

Mustapha ventured to assert that it was a chicken.

"A chicken," cried the Pasha fiercely; "more like a dromedary.  You
rascal! did you not say that you could draw?  Go! deceiver, you are
deposed.  Have him out and set him to cleanse the hen-house, and woe
betide you if it is not as clean as your own conscience before to-morrow
morning--away!"

The Pasha shouted the last word, and then fell back in fits of laughter;
while the terrified man fled to the hen-house, and drove its occupants
frantic in his wild attempts to cleanse their Augean stable.

It was not until midnight that Sanda Pasha and Lancey, taking leave of
Hamed and his guests, returned home.

"Come, follow me," said the Pasha, on entering the palace.

He led Lancey to the room in which they had first met, and, seating
himself on a divan, lighted his chibouk.

"Sit down," he said, pointing to a cushion that lay near him on the
marble floor.

Lancey, although unaccustomed to such a low seat, obeyed.

"Smoke," said the Pasha, handing a cigarette to his guest.

Lancey took the cigarette, but at this point his honest soul recoiled
from the part he seemed to be playing.  He rose, and, laying the
cigarette respectfully on the ground, said--

"Sanda Pasha, it's not for the likes o' me to be sittin' 'ere smokin'
with the likes o' you, sir.  There's some mistake 'ere, hobviously.
I've been treated with the consideration doo to a prince since I fell
into the 'ands of the Turks, and it is right that I should at once
correct this mistake, w'ich I'd 'ave done long ago if I could 'ave got
the Turks who've 'ad charge of me to understand Hinglish.  I'm bound to
tell you, sir, that I'm on'y a groom in a Hinglish family, and makes no
pretence to be hanythink else, though circumstances 'as putt me in a
false position since I come 'ere.  I 'ope your Pashaship won't think me
ungracious, sir, but I can't a-bear to sail under false colours."

To this speech Sanda Pasha listened with profound gravity, and puffed an
enormous cloud from his lips at its conclusion.

"Sit down," he said sternly.

Lancey obeyed.

"Light your cigarette."

There was a tone of authority in the Pasha's voice which Lancey did not
dare to resist.  He lighted the cigarette.

"Look me in the _face_," said the Pasha suddenly, turning his piercing
grey eyes full on him guest.

Supposing that this was a prelude to an expression of doubt as to his
honesty, Lancey did look the Pasha full in the face, and returned his
stare with interest.

"Do you see this cut over the bridge of my nose?" demanded the Pasha.

Lancey saw it, and admitted that it must have been a bad one.

"And do you see the light that is blazing in these two eyes?" he added,
pointing to his own glowing orbs with a touch of excitement.

Lancey admitted that he saw the light, and began to suspect that the
Pasha was mad.  At the same time he was struck by the sudden and very
great improvement in his friend's English.

"But for _you_," continued the Pasha, partly raising himself, "that cut
had never been, and the light of those eyes would now be quenched in
death!"

The Pasha looked at his guest more fixedly than ever, and Lancey, now
feeling convinced of his entertainer's madness, began to think uneasily
of the best way to humour him.

"Twenty years ago," continued the Pasha slowly and with a touch of
pathos in his tone, "I received this cut from a boy in a fight at
school," (Lancey thought that the boy must have been a bold fellow),
"and only the other day I was rescued by a man from the waters of the
Danube."  (Lancey thought that, on the whole, it would have been well if
the man had left him to drown.) "The name of the boy and the name of the
man was the same.  It was Jacob Lancey!"

Lancey's eyes opened and his lower jaw dropped.  He sat on his cushion
aghast.

"Jacob Lancey," continued the Pasha in a familiar tone that sent a
thrill to the heart of his visitor, "hae ye forgotten your auld Scotch
freen' and school-mate Sandy?  In Sanda Pasha you behold Sandy Black!"

Lancey sprang to his knees--the low couch rendering that attitude
natural--grasped the Pasha's extended hand, and gazed wistfully into his
eyes.

"Oh Sandy, Sandy!" he said, in a voice of forced calmness, while he
shook his head reproachfully, "many and many a time 'ave I prophesied
that you would become a great man, but little did I think that you'd
come to this--a May'omedan and a Turk."

Unable to say more, Lancey sat down on his cushion, clasped his hands
over his knees, and gazed fixedly at his old friend and former idol.

"Lancey, my boy--it is quite refreshing to use these old familiar words
again,--I am no more a Mohammedan than you are."

"Then you're a 'ypocrite," replied the other promptly.

"By no means,--at least I hope not," said the Pasha, with a smile and a
slightly troubled look.  "Surely there is a wide space between a
thoroughly honest man and an out-and-out hypocrite.  I came here with no
religion at all.  They took me by the hand and treated me kindly.
Knowing nothing, I took to anything they chose to teach me.  What could
a youth do?  Now I am what I am, and I cannot change it."

Lancey knew not what to reply to this.  Laying his hand on the rich
sleeve of the Pasha he began in the old tone and in the fulness of his
heart.

"Sandy, my old friend, as I used to all but worship, nominal May'omedan
though you be, it's right glad I am to--" words failed him here.

"Well, well," said the Pasha, smiling, and drawing a great cloud from
his chibouk, "I'm as glad as yourself, and not the less so that I've
been able to do you some small service in the way of preventing your
neck from being stretched; and that brings me to the chief point for
which I have brought you to my palace, namely, to talk about matters
which concern yourself, for it is obvious that you cannot remain in this
country in time of war with safety unless you have some fixed position.
Tell me, now, where you have been and what doing since we last met in
Scotland, and I will tell you what can be done for you in Turkey."

Hereupon Lancey began a long-winded and particular account of his life
during the last twenty years.  The Pasha smoked and listened with grave
interest.  When the recital was finished he rose.

"Now, Lancey," said he, "it is time that you and I were asleep.  In the
morning I have business to attend to.  When it is done we will continue
our talk.  Meanwhile let me say that I see many little ways in which you
can serve the Turks, if you are so minded."

"Sandy Black," said Lancey, rising with a look of dignity, "you are very
kind--just what I would 'ave expected of you--but you must clearly
understand that I will serve only in works of 'umanity.  In a milingtary
capacity I will serve neither the Turks nor the Roossians."

"Quite right, my old friend, I will not ask military service of you, so
good-night.  By the way, it may be as well to remind you that, except
between ourselves, I am not Sandy Black but Sanda Pasha,--you
understand?"

With an arch smile the Pasha laid down his chibouk and left the room,
and the black attendant conducted Lancey to his bedroom.  The same
attendant took him, the following morning after breakfast, to the
Pasha's "Selamlik" or "Place of Salutations," in order that he might see
how business matters were transacted in Turkey.

The Selamlik was a large handsome room filled with men, both with and
without turbans, who had come either to solicit a favour or a post, or
to press on some private business.  On the entrance of the Pasha every
one rose.  When he was seated, there began a curious scene of bowing to
the ground and touching, by each person present, of the mouth and head
with the hand.  This lasted full five minutes.

Sanda Pasha then received a number of business papers from an officer of
the household, to which he applied himself with great apparent
earnestness, paying no attention whatever to his visitors.  Lancey
observed, however, that his absorbed condition did not prevent a few of
these visitors, apparently of superior rank, from approaching and
whispering in his ear.  To some of them he was gracious, to others cool,
as they severally stated the nature of their business.  No one else
dared to approach until the reading of the papers was finished.
Suddenly the Pasha appeared to get weary of his papers.  He tossed them
aside, ordered his carriage, rose hastily, and left the room.  But this
uncourteous behaviour did not appear to disconcert those who awaited his
pleasure.  Probably, like eels, they had got used to rough treatment.
Some of them ran after the Pasha and tried to urge their suits in a few
rapid sentences, others went off with a sigh or a growl, resolving to
repeat the visit another day, while Sanda himself was whirled along at
full speed to the Sublime Porte, to hold council with the Ministers of
State on the arrangements for the war that had by that time begun to
rage along the whole line of the Lower Danube--the Russians having
effected a crossing in several places.

After enjoying himself for several days in the palace of his old
school-mate, my worthy servant, being resolved not to quit the country
until he had done his utmost to discover whether I was alive or drowned,
accepted the offer of a situation as cook to one of the Turkish
Ambulance Corps.  Having received a suitable change of garments, with a
private pass, and recommendations from the Pasha, he was despatched with
a large body of recruits and supplies to the front.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  A similar establishment to this was, not long ago, described by
the "correspondent" of a well-known Journal.


CHAPTER ELEVEN.

REFERS TO TWO IMPORTANT LETTERS, AND A SECRET MISSION.

It is a curious coincidence that, about the very time when my servant
was appointed to serve in the Turkish Ambulance Corps, I received
permission to act as a surgeon in the Russian army.  Through the
influence of Nicholas Naranovitsch, I was attached to his own regiment,
and thus enjoyed the pleasure of his society for a considerable time
after the breaking out of the war.

I preferred this course to that of returning home, because, first, I
could not bear the thought of leaving the country without making every
possible exertion to ascertain the fate of my yacht's crew, and
rendering them succour if possible; and, secondly, because I felt an
irresistible desire to alleviate, professionally, the sufferings of
those who were certain to be wounded during the war.  I also experienced
much curiosity to know something more of the power and influence of
modern war-engines.  Perhaps some people will think this latter an
unworthy motive.  It may have been so; I cannot tell.  All I can say is
that it was a very secondary one, and would not, of itself, have been
sufficient to induce me to remain for an hour to witness the horrors and
carnage of battle-fields.  Still, putting the various motives together,
I felt justified in remaining.

In order that I might render still more effective service to the cause
of humanity, I wrote, immediately after my appointment as surgeon, to an
intimate friend, north of the Tweed, offering my services as war
correspondent to a paper of which he was editor, namely, the _Scottish
Bawbee_.

That celebrated journal,--well known on the east, west, and north coasts
of Scotland, and extensively circulated in the centre and south of the
country, including England,--is liberal in its principles, conservative
in reference only to things that are good, and violently radical when
treating of those that are bad.  It enjoys the credit of being curt in
its statements, brief in the expression of its opinions, perfectly
silent in reference to its surmises, distinctly repudiative of the gift
of prophecy, consistently averse to the attribution of motives,
persistently wise in giving the shortest possible account of murders and
scandalous cases, and copious in its references to literature, art, and
religious progress, besides being extremely methodical in its
arrangement.

In regard to the latter quality, I cannot refrain from referring to its
sensible mode of treating births, marriages, and deaths, by putting the
Christian and surname of the born, married, or defunct as the _first_
words in each announcement, so that one's digestion at breakfast is
aided by reading with some comfort of the joys and sorrows of one's
friends, instead of having incipient dyspepsia engendered by a painful
search for the main facts in confusing sentences.

The editor's reply came by return of post.  I am ashamed of my youth and
inexperience is not. Still, the future still rest golden cloud around
my head. O take me, noble man, to your chest and ponds me, the
amazing, Unerfahrnen, To the moderate use of life. Antonio. In a
moment until you ford, What wohlbedächtig only time granted. Tasso.
In a moment, the love, what little effort in a long time. I ask 'is not
from you, I may call it. you call me in the name of virtue, the good
people strives to combine. And should I give you another name? The
Princess's hoping you will's - Eleanor, you will lead me to you, you to
me. O let us go against her wishes! Let us connected before the goddess
occur, your our service, offer whole soul, united for them to
do the decent. Again! - Here is my hand! Swoop bringing a! Not kick back
and no longer weigre thee, O noble man, and give me the
pleasure, the best of good people who are better without the backing
Confident add! Antonio. You go in full sail! It seems that you are
accustomed to winning over the broad way, the doors wide to find. I
begrudge every value and every happiness to you happy, but I see only too
much, we still stand too far from each other. Tasso. It is of years on
the audited value at cheerful courage and willpower soft "I never.
Antonio. The will not attract the deeds of guilt; The courage, the
shorter paths before. If you arrived at your destination, is
crowned, And often lacks a dignified 'ger a crown. But there are slight
wreaths, wreaths, there are very different from nature: You can often
Spazierengehn in easy reach. Tasso. What a deity that freely granted
And that strictly refused such an asset is not reached everyone, as he
wants and likes. Antonio. Write it luck before the other gods to hear
'I's happy because his choice is blind. Tasso. Even the justice wears a
bandage And closes his eyes and mirrors to each. Antonio. Happiness raise
the cheap happy! He sealed 'to him for earning one hundred eyes And
smart choice and strict attention to, rated' it Minerva, nom ',
as he wants, he considered gracious gift for wages, Random plaster
for a well-earned decorations.

Tasso. You need not to be clearer. It is enough, I look deep into
your heart and know for yourself's whole life. O knows you my princess
too! Verschwende not the arrows of your eyes, your tongue and you
judge them by the vainly Kranz, The unverwelklichen on my head. Sei
only so big, I envy him not! Me Then you can maybe make it in
dispute.

I eight 'it holy and the highest good: But show me the man who
achieved Wornach I strive, show me the hero, From the stories I just
told, the poet's' me of Homer, Virgil can compare to, yes, Even
more what is said, show me the man, The triple this wage earned
the triple crown, the more beautiful than me Embarrassed: Then shalt
thou shall see me kneeling Before the Goddess that I am so talented,
non-hourly rather 'I have to, until the ornament of my head on hers
pushed over.

Antonio. Until then you remain admittedly its worth. Tasso. You weigh
me, I will not avoid contempt Solo hab 'I do not deserve. The
crown, my lord I am worthy of attention The Duchess of my hand wound
for me, Should not I still doubt begrinsen! Antonio. It ziemt the
high tone, the rapid fire you Not to me, yet you at this type. Tasso.
What you do with this permit, which I also ziemt . And the truth is
probably banned from here? Is in the Palace of the free spirit gekerkert?
Has a noble man is only pressure to tolerate?
Never sit in a draught when you can avoid it.
If you ever come under fire, which I trust you never may, be sure to
get behind a house, or a wall, or a stone, if possible; if you cannot do
so, get behind a soldier, one larger than yourself would be preferable
of course, but if you have not the opportunity of doing this, then turn
your side to the enemy, because in that position you are a much narrower
target, and more likely to escape their bullets.  I need not caution you
not to run away.  I would rather see you, dear boy, in a premature
grave, than hear that you had run away.  But you _could not_ run away.
No Childers ever did so--except from school.

"Let the phial of globules which I gave you at parting be your bosom
friends, till their friendship is required in another and a lower
region.  They are a sovereign remedy against rheumatism, catarrh,
bronchitis, dyspepsia, lumbago, nervous affections, headaches, loss of
memory, debility, monomania, melancholia, botherolia, theoretica, and,
in short, all the ills that flesh is heir to, if only taken in time."

It struck me, as I folded my mother's letter and that of the editor,
that there never was a man who went into any course of action better
guarded and advised than myself.  At the moment when this thought
occurred to me, my friend Nicholas burst into my room in a state of
unusual excitement.

"Come, Jeff," he said, "I'm detailed for another secret duty.  People
seem to have inordinate faith in me, for all my duties are secret!  Are
you willing to go with me?"

"Go where?"  I asked.

"That I may not tell," he replied; "anywhere, or nowhere, or everywhere.
All I can say is, that if you go, it will be to act as surgeon to a
squadron of cavalry.  I see you have letters.  Good news from home--eh?
What of Bella?"

"Yes" I replied, "good news and good advice--listen."

I reopened the letters and read them aloud.

"Capital!" exclaimed Nicholas, "just the thing for you.  No doubt my
expedition will furnish a column and a half, if not more, of
unquestionable facts for the _Scottish Bawbee_.  Get ready, my boy; I
start in half-an-hour."

He swung off in the same hearty, reckless manner with which he had
entered; and I immediately set about packing up my surgical instruments
and note-books, and making other preparations for a journey of unknown
extent and duration.


CHAPTER TWELVE.

MY FIRST EXPERIENCE OF ACTUAL WAR, AND MY THOUGHTS THEREON.

We set out by the light of the moon.  Our party consisted of a small
force of Russian light cavalry.  The officer in command was evidently
well acquainted with our route, for he rode smartly ahead without
hesitation or sign of uncertainty for several hours.

At first Nicholas and I conversed in low tones as we cantered side by
side over hill and dale, but as the night advanced we became less
communicative, and finally dropped into silence.  As I looked upon
village and hamlet, bathed in the subdued light, resting in quietness
and peace, I thought sadly of the evils that war would surely bring upon
many an innocent and helpless woman and child.

It was invariably in this course that my thoughts about war flowed.  I
was, indeed, quite alive to the national evils of war, and I will not
admit that any man-of-peace feels more sensitively than I do the fact
that, in war, a nation's best, youngest, and most hopeful blood is
spilled, while its longest lives and most ardent spirits are ruthlessly,
uselessly sacrificed--its budding youths, its strapping men, its
freshest and most muscular, to say nothing of mental, manhood.  Still,
while contemplating war and its consequences, I have always been much
more powerfully impressed with the frightful consequences to women and
children, than anything else.  To think of our wives, our little ones,
our tender maidens, our loving matrons, and our poor helpless babes,
being exposed to murder, rapine, torture, and all the numerous and
unnameable horrors of war, for the sake of some false, some fanciful,
some utterly ridiculous and contemptible idea, such as the connection of
one or two provinces of a land with this nation or with that, or the
"integrity of a foreign empire," has always filled me with sensations of
indignation approaching to madness, not unmingled, I must add, with
astonishment.

That savages will fight among themselves is self-evident; that Christian
nations shall defend themselves from the assaults of savages is also
obvious; but that two Christian nations should go to war for anything,
on any ground whatever, is to my mind inexplicable and utterly
indefensible.

Still, they do it.  From which circumstance I am forced to conclude that
the Christianity as well as the civilisation and common-sense of one or
the other of such nations is, for the time, in abeyance.

Of course I was not perplexed in regard to the Turks.  Their religion is
not Christian.  Moreover, it was propagated by the sword, and teaches
coercion in religious matters; but I could not help feeling that the
Russians were too ready to forsake diplomacy and take to war.

"My dear fellow," said Nicholas, rousing himself, when I stated my
difficulty, "don't you see that the vacillating policy of England has
driven us to war in spite of ourselves?  She would not join the rest of
Europe in compelling Turkey to effect reforms which she--Turkey--had
promised to make, so that nothing else was left for us but to go to
war."

"My dear fellow," I retorted, somewhat hotly, "that Turkey has behaved
brutally towards its own subjects is a well-known fact.  That she has
treated the representatives of all the great powers of Europe with
extreme insolence is another well-known fact, but it is yet to be proved
that the efforts of diplomacy were exhausted, and even if they were, it
remained for Europe, not for Russia, to constitute herself the champion
of the oppressed."

"Jeff, my boy," returned Nicholas, with a smile, "I'm too sleepy to
discuss that subject just now, further than to say that I don't agree
with you."

He did indeed look sleepy, and as we had been riding many hours I
forbore to trouble him further.

By daybreak that morning we drew near to the town of Giurgevo, on the
Roumanian--or, I may say, the Russian--side of the Danube, and soon
afterwards entered it.

Considerable excitement was visible among its inhabitants, who, even at
that early hour, were moving hurriedly about the streets.  Having parted
from our escort, Nicholas and I refreshed ourselves at the Hotel de
l'Europe, and then went to an hospital, where my companion wished to
visit a wounded friend--"one," he said, "who had lately taken part in a
dashing though unsuccessful expedition."

This visit to Giurgevo was my first introduction to some of the actual
miseries of war.  The hospital was a clean, well-ventilated building.
Rows of low beds were ranged neatly and methodically along the
whitewashed walls.  These were tenanted by young men in every stage of
suffering and exhaustion.  With bandaged heads or limbs they sat or
reclined or lay, some but slightly wounded and still ruddy with the hue
of health on their young cheeks; some cut and marred in visage and
limbs, with pale cheeks and blue lips, that told of the life-blood
almost drained.  Others were lying flat on their backs, with the soft
brown moustache or curly brown hair contrasting terribly with the grey
hue of approaching death.

In one of the beds we found the friend of Nicholas.

He was quite a youth, not badly wounded, and received us with
enthusiasm.

"My dear Nicholas," he said, in reply to a word of condolence about the
failure of the expedition, "you misunderstand the whole matter.
Doubtless it did not succeed, but that was no fault of ours, and it was
a glorious attempt.  (All children.) Children, submit everything again.
We prefer not enough.

I did as a housewife with a new contract completed.'

s Father and mother are reconciled. The gracious Lord comes into the
house. Children (all joyfully). This is Gscheid! this is Gscheid! Valentin.
Drum is running, what you can.

No man may stay at home. I take the little boys with. (He takes Pepi
on the arm.) Goes to all neighbors. Ask if they have not seen him.
They will help you search. And if ye find him, it brings him. Rosa.
The man is foolish before louder joys. Children. Bravo! fun to go now.
(Ab) Hansel. Father, leave the father to me. If I pack it to me, he never
made. (Geht ab proud.) Valentin. The boy may again become a great man,
if he so fortwachst. Wife, now come! You have a lot to me gmacht annoyances
today, but now everything is forgiven thee. No man is without fault, when
a just the right time the button is rising. Who knows, WERS vergilt
yet, and I think I stop if I even quite old, I would like but other
memories recorded, than that I've glued Stuhlfuß and a Schubladkasten
made. Now come! (Both from.) Tenth appearance Verwandlung The ruins of
the ancient castle Flottwell. Zerfallne chambers and towers, built
on rocks, are right. Links the prospect, almost on the level of
Schloßberg on ulterior conterpart mountains, behind which the
sun goes down. Flottwell in despair. Climbs over the rocks, as he
would from the valley. Flottwell. I'm up! I have reached the last
level, which in this world for me was yet to climb. I stand on my ancestors
birthplace and grave, Flott On Mr. Wells old noble palace. We are also
having disastrous. Had I not leave thee, And you would I do. Too late!
(Throws his hat and Bettelstab itself.) Rotting, Bettelstab! My misery
needs now not supported anymore. I never go back to your world, my crimes
Because I conclude from the realm of self-made. I Versündigt at the
majesty of gold. I did not consider that this metal is a rule
appropriated, before I would tremble, because it is cunning with
which bewundrungswürdig is The Noble himself drawn into his circle. Who
feels happily, once by Wohltun A doctor of mankind, and which it now
fails because it Güldene medicinal Gebricht, making the sick world
recovers.
They were compelled therefore to abandon
the attempt, and seek shelter from the Turkish fire behind an island.

"So then," said I, on quitting the hospital, "torpedoes, although
_terrible_ in their action, are not always _certain_."

"Nothing is always certain," replied Nicholas, with a smile, "except the
flight of time, and as the matter on which I have come requires
attention I must now leave you for a few hours.  Don't forget the name
of our hotel.  That secure in a man's mind, he may lose himself in any
town or city with perfect safety--_au revoir_."

For some time I walked about the town.  The morning was bright and calm,
suggesting ideas of peace; nevertheless my thoughts could not be turned
from the contemplation of war, and as I wandered hither and thither,
looking out for reminiscences of former wars, I thought of the curiously
steady way in which human history repeats itself.  It seems to take
about a quarter of a century to teach men to forget or ignore the
lessons of the past and induce them to begin again to fight.  Here, in
1829, the Russians levelled the fortifications which at that time
encircled the town; here, in 1854, the Russians were defeated by the
Turks; and here, in 1872, these same Russians and Turks were at the same
old bloody and useless game--ever learning, yet never coming to a
knowledge of the great truth, that, with all their fighting, nothing has
been gained and nothing accomplished save a few changes of the men on
the chess-board, and the loss of an incalculable amount of life and
treasure.

As the day advanced it became very sultry.  Towards the afternoon I
stopped and gazed thoughtfully at the placid Danube, which, flowing
round the gentle curve of Slobosia, reflected in its glittering waters
the white domes and minarets of the opposite town of Rustchuk.  A low,
rumbling sound startled me just then from a reverie.  On looking up I
perceived a small puff of smoke roll out in the direction of the Turkish
shore.  Another and another succeeded, and after each shot a smaller
puff of smoke was seen to hang over the Turkish batteries opposite.

A strange conflicting rush of feelings came over me, for I had awakened
from dreaming of ancient battles to find myself in the actual presence
of modern war.  The Russian had opened fire, and their shells were
bursting among the Turks.  These latter were not slow to reply.  Soon
the rumbling increased to thunder, and I was startled by hearing a
tremendous crash not far distant from me, followed by a strange humming
sound.  The crash was the bursting of a Turkish shell in one of the
streets of the town, and the humming sound was the flying about of
ragged bits of iron.  From the spot on which I stood I could see the
havoc it made in the road, while men, women, and children were rushing
in all directions out of its way.

A small annoyance happened was the cause of the Archduke soon be made
up of France to Spain. A day of celebration came to the solemn
mass real French family, with its venerable guests.

At the offertory approached a lady Doña Juana, his hand approaching a
number of currencies, according to custom to offer to the public on
behalf of the queen. This was rejected with violence, saying: "Know your
_Haced sovereign that I did not offer anyone, you understand?

_. With the money and answer the messenger returned to the Queen, who
felt a slight degree so marked, but trying to restrain his anger, was
content to pay a larger one with which the offer was not leaving the
church before that the Royal entourage.

The perspicacity of Doña Juana did present something on this and
do not be deceived, because they already finished the Mass, the
family began to meet, yet she remained in the church. The queen
looked a little on the street, but Doña Juana unaware that doing
all this, remained in that position a long time, then going alone to
the palace. Hablillas Everything is returning to the Court on the remaining
esplicado snub, and have spent more Archduke succeed if it is not
apologizing to his wife who was shot was directed, so he had to
rush to shorten your trip to Spanish soil. day had already begun
in 1502, when they made their entry into Spain by Fuenterrabia.

In this capital city looked upon recommendation of the D. Fernando and
Queen Isabel, Don Bernardo de Sandoval y Rojas, who accompanied by Burgos,
Valladolid and Madrid to Toledo, the point where they were called the
Cortes of the kingdom, and where jurors were then inherited the crown
of Spain, who estimated May 22 was the same year of 1502. After jurors
also became the kingdoms of Aragon and Valencia, where they accompanied
their parents travel.

Back espedicion and this had to stop in Alcala de Henares a result of being
near birth Doña Juana. All parties that are prepared in the court to the
heirs archduke, who had stopped to run after the double objective of
the new birth of a prince, which took effect on 10th March
1503 with the birth of the infant Don Fernando I then happened to
the Emperor Charles V in the empire of Germany.

The events which had by then in the states of Philip the Fair, you will
not be allowed to continue any longer in Spain: so is determined to
march instantly, even against their will, not enough or the pleas
of his mother, Doña Juana nor to make you abandon your efforts.
From this time dates the fatal madness of the mother of many kings. Since
this time he was so miserable muger deserves a better fate.
I was right.
It had been struck, and the middle finger was hanging by a piece of
skin.  A mere touch of my knife was sufficient to sever it.  As I
bandaged the stump, I tried to console the poor child.  She did not
appear to care for the pain I unavoidably caused her, but remained quite
still, only saying now and then, in a low voice, "Father," as she looked
with her tearless eyes at the heap that lay in the passage.

Giving this hapless little one in charge of a woman who seemed to be an
inhabitant of the same building, I hurried away, but had not gone a
hundred yards when I chanced to meet Nicholas.

"Ha! well met, my boy!" he exclaimed, evidently in a state of suppressed
excitement; "come along.  I expected to have had a long hunt after you,
but fortune favours me, and we have not a moment to lose."

"Where are you going?"  I asked.

"Just think," he said, seizing my arm and hurrying me along, but taking
no heed of my question; "we are fairly over the Danube in force!  The
night before last three thousand men, Cossacks and infantry, crossed
from Galatz in boats and rafts, and gained the heights above Matchin.
Zoukoff has beaten the enemy everywhere, and Zimmermann is reported to
have driven them out of Matchin--in fact we have fairly broken the ice,
and all that we have now to do is to go in and win."

I saw by the flush on his handsome countenance that the martial ardour
of Nicholas was stirred to its depths.  There was a noble look of daring
in his clear grey eye, and a smile of what seemed like joy on his lips,
which I knew well were the expression of such sentiments as love of
country, desire to serve, like a brave son, that Emperor whom he
regarded as a father, hatred of oppression, belief in the righteousness
of the cause for which he fought, and delight in the prospect of wild
animal excitement.  He was full of high hopes, noble aspirations,
superabundant energy, and, although not a deep thinker, could tell
better than most men, by looking at it, whether the edge of a grindstone
were rough or smooth.

We walked smartly to our hotel, but found that our servant had fled, no
one knew whither, taking our horses with him.  The landlord, however,
suggested the railway station, and thither we ran.

A train was entering when we arrived.  It was full of Russian soldiers.
On the platform stood a Jew, to whom Nicholas addressed himself.  The
Jew at first seemed to have difficulty in understanding him, but he
ultimately said that he had seen a man who must be the one we were in
search of, and was about to tell us more, when a Turkish shell burst
through the roof of the station, and exploded on the platform, part of
which it tore up, sending splinters of iron and wood in all directions.
The confused noise of shout and yell that followed, together with the
smoke, prevented my observing for a moment or two what damage had been
done, but soon I ascertained that Nicholas and myself were unhurt; that
the Jew had been slightly wounded, and also several of the people who
were waiting the arrival of the train.

The groans of some of the wounded, and the cursing and shouting of the
soldiers just arrived, made a powerful impression on me.

"Come, I see our fellow," cried Nicholas, seizing me suddenly by the arm
and hurrying me away.

In a few minutes we had caught our man, mounted our horses, rejoined our
cavalry escort, which awaited us in the marketplace, and galloped out of
the town.

It is a fact worthy of record that of all the people killed and hurt
during this bombardment of Giurgevo, not one was a Russian!  This arose
from the fact that the soldiers were under the safe cover of their
batteries.  The Turkish shells did not produce any real damage to works
or men.  In short, all that was accomplished in this noisy display of
the "art of war" was the destruction of many private houses, the killing
and maiming of several civilians, including women and children, and a
shameful waste of very expensive ammunition, partly paid for by the
sufferers.  In contemplating these facts, the word "glory" assumed a
very strange and quite a new meaning in my mind.

Soon we were beyond the reach of Turkish missiles, though still within
sound of the guns.  Our pace showed that we were making what I suppose
my military friends would style a forced march.  Nicholas was evidently
unwilling to converse on the object of our march, but at length gave way
a little.

"I see no harm," he said, "in telling you that we are about to cross the
Danube not far from this, and that at least one of my objects is to
secure a trustworthy intelligent spy.  You know--perhaps you don't
know--that such men are rare.  Of course we can procure any number of
men who have pluck enough to offer themselves as spies, for the sake of
the high pay, just as we can get any number of men who are willing to
jump down a cannon's throat for the honour and glory of the thing."

"Yes," said I, interrupting, "men like our friend Nicholas
Naranovitsch!"

"Well, perhaps," he replied, with a light laugh, "but don't change the
subject, Jeff, you've got a bad tendency to do so.  I say there is no
difficulty in getting spies; but it is not easy to find men well
qualified for such work.  Now one has been heard of at last, and, among
other things, I am commissioned to secure him for the purpose of leading
our troops across the Balkans."

"The Balkans!" said I, in surprise; "you are a long way from that
range."

"The length of any way, Jeff, depends not so much upon the way as on the
spirit of him who measures it.  Ten miles to one man is a hundred miles
to another, and _vice versa_."

Who can decide, defeated the pain. Princess. Resolutely, I'm not alone
it was, If he is not a long time away - And let us make for him, Leonore,
That he will not suffer shortages, the fact that he Herzog
also his maintenance in the distance range willingly leave.

Speak with Antonio, because he can When my brother a lot, and the
dispute is not our friend and we want to do. Leonore.

A word from you, princess, would more. princess. I can you know it, my
friend, not as my sister's Urbino can for me and for what my request.
I live like so quiet out before me, And take from his brother grateful
to me what he can and always give wants. otherwise I have to reproach
me some self-made; now hab 'ich overcome. It scolded me often about a
girlfriend: You're altruistic, she said, This is quite nice, just so much
art thou's, that you also need your Friends Do not quite feel it. I
let it go And just because these must bear reproach.

To the more pleased I am that I am now, in fact, the Friends can help,
it reminds me of my mother's inheritance, And I will gladly provide
help for him.

Leonore. And I, O Princess, find myself in the event that I, as a
friend to show me.

He is not a good Wirth, where it is missing, Werd 'I already sent
him to help know. princess.

To take him away, and, should I spare him, above all others, it was
you gegönnt! I see it well, it will be better.

Do I have this pain again And healing as good prices? That was my fate
from youth, I am now got used to. Only half of the loss is the
most happiness, if we are on the property were not safe. Leonore. I
hope you, so beautiful you can earn, Happy to sehn! Princess. Eleanor!
Happy? Who is happy? - Although my brother wants' so I call, because
his great heart Carries his skill with always the same courage,
alone, what he deserves, which promised him never. Is my sister from
Urbino happy? The beautiful woman, the big noble heart, you bring
the younger man no children; He respects them and makes them not
charges, but no joy living in her house. What helped her mother
because of our wisdom? The knowledge of any kind, her great
sense? Could 'it before the strange mistake protect? It took us away
from it: Now she is dead you do not let us children the consolation
that they reconciled with their God had died. Leonore. O look not for
what each is lacking; Look at what every one still remains, what is not
you, Princess? princess. What remains to me? patience, Eleanor! Practice
could 'From my youth. When friends when siblings During festival and
enjoyed the game sociable, made me sick to my room, and suffering in
society have some 'spare I soon learn. One was, "What in the solitude
of beautiful feasted me, the joy of singing, I talked to myself,
I rocked the pain and longing And every wish with quiet tones.

As was often enjoy suffering, and even the sad feeling for harmony. Not
long 'I was so lucky gegönnt, I picked this out of the doctor: his strict
requirement me Was silent; live should I suffer, the small consolation
einz'gen should I spare. Leonore.

So many friends were found to thee, And now you're healthy, are alive.

And such a deed
is done, still more gloriously, when a soldier, true to his Queen and
country, is true also to his God, and preaches while he practises the
principles and gospel of the Prince of Peace, in the presence of those
with whom he acts his part in this world's drama.  There is indeed much
that is glorious in the conduct of many warriors, but there is no glory
whatever in war itself.  The best that can be said of it is, that
sometimes it is a stern yet sad necessity."

We dropped the subject here, having reached the point of the river where
our party was to cross to the Turkish shore.

The passage was soon accomplished by means of rafts, and many thousands
of Russians having already preceded us we experienced no opposition.  It
was daylight when we rode into a village on the Bulgarian shore, and I
looked up sleepily at the cottages as we passed.

"We halt here," said Nicholas, with a yawn as he drew rein.

The officer in command of our party had already halted his men, who,
gladly quitting their saddles, streamed after us into the courtyard of
the village.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

SHEWS WHAT SOMETIMES HAPPENS IN THE TRACK OF TROOPS.

"Why, Nicholas," I exclaimed, looking round the inn, "I have been here
before.  It is--it must be--the very place where, on my way up, I saw a
famous wrestling-match.  Did I ever tell you about it?"

"Never; but come along, I must finish one part of my duty here without
delay by paying a visit.  You can tell me about the wrestling-match as
we walk together."

I described the match with great interest, for my heart warmed towards
the chief actor and his family, and as I proceeded with the narration I
observed with some satisfaction that the road we were following led in
the direction of the cottage of Dobri Petroff.  As we drew near to the
path that diverged to it I resolved, if possible, to give Nicholas, who
was evidently interested in my narrative, a surprise by confronting him
unexpectedly with the blacksmith and his family.

"Nicholas," I said, "you see that cottage on the hillside?  I have a
great desire to pay its inmates a visit.  Have you any objection to turn
aside just for a few minutes?"

Nicholas gave me a look of surprise and laughed.

"None in the world, Jeff, for it happens that I particularly wish to
visit the cottage myself."

"You do?  Why--what--"

"Well, finish your question, Jeff; why should it seem strange to you
that I want to visit a Bulgarian family?"

"Why, because, Nick, this is the cottage of the very blacksmith about
whom I have been speaking, and I wanted to give you a surprise by
introducing him to you."

"His name?" asked Nicholas quickly.

"Dobri Petroff."

"The very man.  How strange!  You have already given me a surprise,
Jeff, and will now add a pleasure and a service by introducing me to
him, and, perhaps, by using your powers of suasion.  It is no breach of
confidence to tell you that part of my business here is to secure the
services of this man as a guide over the Balkans, with the passes of
which we have been told he is intimately acquainted.  But it is said
that he is a bold independent fellow, who may dislike and refuse the
duty."

"He won't dislike it at all events," said I.  "He has no love for the
Turks, who have treated him shamefully, just because of that same bold
and independent spirit."

"Well, come, we shall see," rejoined my friend.

In a few minutes we had come to a turn in the path which brought the
cottage full into view, and I experienced a sudden shock on observing
that part of it--that part which had been the forge--was a blackened
ruin.  I was at the same moment relieved, however, by the sight of
Ivanka and little Dobri, who were playing together in front of the
uninjured part of the cottage.

Next moment the tall handsome form of the blacksmith appeared stooping
under the doorway as he came out to receive us.  I noticed that there
was an expression of trouble on his countenance, mingled with a look of
sternness which was not usual to him.  He did not recognise me at first,
and evidently eyed Nicholas--as a Russian officer--with no favour.

As we drew near, the stern look vanished, and he sprang forward with a
glad smile to seize and shake my hand.  At the same moment Ivanka's
black eyes seemed to blaze with delight, as she ran towards me, and
clasped one of my legs.  Little Dobri, bereft of speech, stood with legs
and arms apart, and mouth and eyes wide open, gazing at me.

"All well?"  I asked anxiously.

"All well," said the blacksmith; then, with a glance at the
forge--"except the--; but that's not much after all.--Come in,
gentlemen, come in."

We entered, and found Marika as neat and thrifty as ever, though with a
touch of care about her pretty face which had not been there when I
first met her.

A few words explained the cause of their trouble.

"Sir," said Petroff, addressing me, but evidently speaking at Nicholas,
"we unfortunate Bulgarians have hard times of it just now.  The Turk has
oppressed and robbed and tortured and murdered us in time past, and now
the Russian who has come to deliver us is, it seems to me, completing
our ruin.  What between the two we poor wretches have come to a
miserable pass indeed."

He turned full on Nicholas, unable to repress a fierce look.

"Friend," said Nicholas gently, but firmly, "the chances of war are
often hard to bear, but you ought to recognise a great difference
between the sufferings which are caused by wilful oppression, and those
which are the unavoidable consequences of a state of warfare."

"Unavoidable!" retorted the blacksmith bitterly.  "Is it not possible
for the Russians to carry supplies for their armies, instead of
demanding all our cattle for beef and all our harvests for fodder?"

"Do we not pay you for such things?" asked Nicholas, in the tone of a
man who wishes to propitiate his questioner.

"Yes, truly, but nothing like the worth of what you take; besides, of
what value are a few gold pieces to me?  My wife and children cannot eat
gold, and there is little or nothing left in the land to buy.  But that
is not the worst.  Your Cossacks receive nothing from your Government
for rations, and are allowed to forage as they will.  Do you suppose
that, when in want of anything, they will stop to inquire whether it
belongs to a Bulgarian or not?  When the war broke out, and your troops
crossed the river, my cattle and grain were bought up, whether I would
or no, by your soldiers.  They were paid for--underpaid, I say--but that
I cared not for, as they left me one milch-cow and fodder enough to keep
her.  Immediately after that a band of your lawless and unrationed
Cossacks came, killed the cow, and took the forage, without paying for
either.  After that, the Moldavians, who drive your waggon-supplies for
you--a lawless set of brigands when there are no troops near to watch
them,--cleaned my house of every scrap that was worth carrying away.
What could I do?  To kill a dozen of them would have been easy, but that
would not have been the way to protect my wife and children."

Here is the question not of a love that is the subject of bemeistern
will have Negative him, jealous The sight would like to fight each other.
If he is blessed with your viewing Werth employed, even if it is in
my nature is easier erfreun. We He loves not - forgive that I say - For
all spheres, he wears what he loves, to establish a name that we lead,
And he shares his feelings with us, we seem to love the man, and
we only love with him the highest thing we can love. princess.

You have much in this science deepened, Eleanor, tell me things that I
almost just touch the ear and into the soul hardly übergehn.

Leonore. You? Pupil of Plato! Do not understand what you a newcomer
vorzuschwatzen dares?

It should be that I am very wrong; But IRR 'I do not quite, I know
it well. The love shows in the Holden School Of not, what else than a
spoiled Child: It is the youth of the psyche is married, the Council
of the Gods And seat vote. He rages not sacrilegious From breast to
another back and forth, it attaches itself to beauty and shape of
non-identical mistake with a sweet, and not fast büßet noise with disgust
and frustration. Princess. Then my brother! Let us not betray, where once
again steered the conversation: We would joke with his bear, how our
clothes out his scorn. Second, the former appearance. Alphons. Alphons.
I am looking Tasso, which I never do, And take him - even here when you
not to. Can you give it to me no message? Princess. I saw him yesterday,
little, not today. Alphons. It is An old error, that he more than solitude
to society studied.

Verzeih 'I gave him when he colorful swarm of people fleeing rather
freely and quietly with his spirit may be entertained, but I can
not praise that he is the circuit avoids the close friends.

Leonore. Erro 'I do not, you will be soon, O Lord, the rebuke of
praise in a happy turn.

I saw him today from a distance, he kept a book and a blackboard,
wrote, and went and wrote.

A fleeting word he said to me yesterday, seemed to me his work completed
anzukünden.

He cares only small moves to improve order your bounty, which granted
him so much, finally a worthy sacrifice darzubringen. Alphons. He
should be welcome, if he brings, And go talk to for a long time. So
I am very partial to his work, so much in some sense the great work I
am pleased and happy must be so much more also as the impatience
in me.

He can not question can not be done, He always changing, slowly flick
before, there is again quiet, he goes behind the hope, unwilling, you
can see the enjoyment away late in time, so close you believed.
princess. I praise the humility, the concern , What he step before
step objectives.

Only through the favor of the Muses align themselves So many rhymes firmly
together into one, And its soul has only this drive, it should be to the
whole poem REASONS.

Mährchen He does not want to pile on Mährchen The charming and entertaining
as last words just fade away loose fooled. Let him, my brother!
Because it is the time from good works is not the measure; And if
posterity should enjoy with, So must the artist Mitwelt forget.

Alphons. Let us, dear sister, act, How we both benefit often did, when
I 'm too busy, so you Lindre: And you're too mildly, I will drive.

We then see him at once, perhaps at a destination where we have many
'desired sehn. Then the Fatherland, it will surprise the world, what a
work has been completed. I take my part of the glory of them, And he
will be introduced into life.

A noble man can not close its educational circles thanks. And Homeland
world must act on it. Fame and blame he must learn to endure. Himself
and others he is legally obliged to know. Him not the weight
of loneliness more flattering. It wants the enemy - it can not save the
friend, then the young man streitend exercise his powers, Feel
what it is, and soon feels a man Leonore.

So you, Lord, for him to do everything as you so far for him a lot
done.

It is a talent in the silence, Of a character in the stream in the world.
O that he had his mind as his art to illustrate your lessons! The fact
that he did not avoid people longer, that his suspicions, not least in
fear and hatred transform! Alphons. The only people afraid of
who she does not know, And who shun them, they will soon ignore.

This is his case, and so after a free mind confused and shackled.

He is often worried about my favor, far more than it ziemte; against
many, he has a mis Traunviertel which, I know it sure is not his
enemies.

Meets yes, that is a lost letter, that a servant from his service in
another is the fact that a paper comes out of his hands, he sees
the same intention, sees treachery and perfidy which undermines his
fate.

Princess. Let us, dear brother, Do not forget, that of himself man
can not be distinguished. And when a friend who should walk with us
to get a damaged foot, but we would prefer to go slow and our hands
to him willingly and gladly borrow.

Alphons.

Besser wär's, If we could heal him, rather just loyal to the Council
of the doctor tried a cure, then cured with the glad new way of
life were fresh. hoff But I, my dears, that I never the fault of
the doctor's rough on me do.

I do what I can to provide security Zutraun And his bosom einzuprägen.
I'll give 'him often in the presence of many Entschiedne token of
my favor. He complains to me, so let's examine me, as I did, as he affixed
his room recently believed. Can not find zeig So I left him, as I
see's, And since we all must practice, so usual 'I know because
he's earned the patience to Tasso: And you, I know, is willing for
me.

I hab 'euch now brought into the country and go Heut' evening after the
city back. You will be a moment to see Antonio; He comes from Rome and
picks me up. We have a lot out of, dismiss. Decisions are now to act,
much to write letters; This obliges me to town. Princess. You permit us
that we will accompany you out? Alphons. If only Belriguardo goes together
Hinüber after Consandoli!

Enjoy the beautiful days all the way to free pleasure. Princess. You can
not stay with us?

The shops not as good as here in the city work? Leonore. You lead us
across Antonio, The Rome of us so much to tell? Alphons. It is not
their children, but I come with him as soon as possible is back: Then
let him tell you, and ye shall I reward him help so much in my
service sought anew.

And we re-expressed, Sun likes the swarm then that funny in our gardens
will that even me, how cheap, a beauty in the chilling, if I search
like they might encounter. Leonore. We want to kindly look through
your fingers. Alphons. On the other hand you know that I can spare.
Prinzessin (after the scene swept). Long seh 'ich Tasso come. Slowly he
moves his steps at once is sometimes silent, as indecisive, then
goes back on us going faster, and is visiting again.

Alphons. Interfere him if he thinks and writes, in his dreams not, and
let him walk. Leonore . No, he has seen us, he comes here.

The former third-party presence. Tasso. Tasso (with a book in parchment
stitched). I'm slow, you work to bring zaudre And yet, you are to hand
over. I know too well, yet it remains unfinished, even if it seems like
geendigt want.

Alone, I was worried it imperfectly you add, it overcomes me now, the
new concern: Would 'I do not like to be anxious, möcht' I do not seem
ungrateful. And like the man just can say: Here am I!

that of his friends enjoy gentle, So I can only say: Take it out! (He
hands over the tape.) Alphons. You surprise me with your gift to me
And make this beautiful day for celebration. So halt 'ich's finally
because in my hands, And nom 'is in some sense mine! Lang' wants' I
know, you decide you want to say And finally: Here! It is enough.
Tasso. If you're satisfied, so it's perfect, because it belongs to you
in every sense. If I the diligence, which I used, I saw the outline of
my pen, it could So I say: This work is mine. But seh 'ich closer to
what this seal innren the value and dignity are Discoverable' I
feel I've 'only of you.

If the nature of poetry Holde gift from me kind of arbitrariness
presented, for example, had I was lucky eigensinn'ge With grim
violence is pushed, pulled, and the beautiful view of the world
the boys with all their wealth of wonderful, So soon clouded the
youthful sense of undeserved suffering expensive parents opened the
lips to sing, So flowed a sad song from her down, and I accompanied
by faint sounds of his father in pain and agony of the mother you
were alone, from the close of a beautiful life to freedom brought
me; The concern each took me by the head, gave me freedom that For
my soul is courageous singing could unfold; And what price now is
my work, thanks to you 'I do, because it belongs to you.

Alphons. For the second time you are deserving of every praise,
And modest ehrst you and us at the same time. Tasso. O may I
say how I feel lively, That I of you did just what I do! The young man
did - he took most of the seal itself? The wise leadership of the
war quickly - he has dreamed up? The art of weapons, each with a hero On
the final days beschiednen shows Des commander wisdom and courage
of the knights, And how cunning and vigilance to combat, Hast thou
not o wise, tapfrer Prince, The eingeflößt everything as if you
were my genius, which would be a joy, His high, inaccessible through
a high mortal beings to reveal?

princess. Enjoy now the plant, which pleased us! Alphons. Enjoy
the applause of every Good! Leonore. In general fame enjoying yourself!
Tasso. I am at this moment enough. To you only thought 'I do if I
thought and wrote; you to please, was my highest desire to amuse you,
it was my last end.

Who not the world sees in his friends, does not deserve that the
world experienced by him.

Here is my fatherland, here is the circle, in which my soul dwells
like. horch Here 'I, eight' I every Wink, Here speaks of experience,
science, taste, yes, the world and posterity seh 'I stand before me.
The crowd makes the artist IRR' and shy: Only someone who is similar to
you, understands and feels, only to be the sole judge and reward!

Alphons. And because we represent the world and before posterity, ziemt
So it is not only futile to receive.

The beautiful character, which pays tribute to the poet, of course,
the hero of his always needed Him without envy wound around the
main sees Behold 'I am here at your Anherrn forehead.

(On the Hermes Virgil significant.) Did the accident's a Genius has
braided and placed?

It shows us here is not in vain. Virgil hear me say: What Ehret her dead?
But had their reward, and joy as they lived And if you do us admired
and revered, To give the living their part.

My marble image is already crowned enough - The green branch is part of
the life.

(Alphons waving his sister, they takes the crown of the bust of Virgil and
approaching Tasso. He resigns.) Leonore.

You weigerst you? See which hand the ring, The beautiful unverwelklichen,
offers thee! Tasso. O let me feel free! Seh 'I do not how I should
live this hour. Alphons. The enjoyment of the beautiful property, in
the first moment you scared. Princess (by the wreath into the air
holds). You treat me the joy seltne, Tasso, without any word you like
to say how I think.

Tasso. The nice load out of your expensive hands Reception 'on my knees
I am low key. (He kneels down, the princess gives him the ring on.)
Leonore (applauding). It live for the first time crowned! zieret As the
bescheidnen man in the ring! (Tasso is on.) Alphons. It is only an
example of the crown, on the Capitol you should decorate. princess.
There are louder voices greet thee; With silent lip worth the friendship
here. Tasso. O take him away from my head back, take him out! He sengt
my hair, And like a ray of sun, too hot, the principal took me, he burns
me the strength of reflection from the forehead. Fever heat my blood
moving. Sorry! There is too much! Leonore. Schützet this topic is much
more the principal of the man in the hot regions of Fame to convert,
and cools the forehead.

Tasso. I'm not worth it, to feel the cooling, the only heroes foreheads
blow be. O lifts him to their gods, and between clouds transfigured him
that he had high and higher And unattainable floating!

That my life after this goal was forever Convert! Alphons. Who early
acquires, learns early the high value of the HOLD value goods of
this life, who enjoys early, lacking in his life with will not be
what he once possessed; And who owns, the needs ahead.

Tasso.

And if you upgrade, you need a force in the bosom feel to it never fails.
Oh! You failed me just now!

In happiness they leave me, the inborn power, The steadfast me the accident,
proud Meet the wrongly taught. Has the pleasure to me Has the delight
of this moment, the Mark in my limbs broken? It reduced my knee! Once
again, you see, O Princess, I bowed before thee! Hear my plea: Take
him away! That, like a beautiful dream awake, I feel refreshed new life.
Princess. Quiet When you humble talent, The thee the gods said, can
carry, Sun lern 'these branches, which are The most beautiful thing
we can give you.

Wem once dignified, she touched the head, the float on forever to the
forehead. Tasso. So let me ashamed because by Hinnen go! let my good
fortune in the deep grove hide, otherwise I hid my pain there.
einsam where I want to convert, where no eye reminds me of the
undeserved good fortune.

And shows me around a clear fountain in its pure mirror of a man,
crowned in the beautiful reflection of the sky between trees, between
rocks after resting Thinking: So it seems to me, I look at this
magic Elysium area Made. Still remember 'and I ask: Who likes the
Abgeschiedne be?

The young man from the previous ones time? So beautiful crowned? Who
can tell me his name? His earnings? I wait long 'and think: Were yet
another and another, to him in friendly conversation socialize!

Seeding O' my heroes, the poets of old times gathered around this source!
O Seeding 'I here they are always inseparable in life as they were
firmly attached!

Sun binds the magnet with its strength, the iron with the iron firmly
together, as equal quest hero and poet binds.

Homer forgot himself, his whole life Was the consideration of two holy
men, And Urgent Alexander in Elysium, the Achilles and Homer to search.
O that I would present it, the greatest souls, now united to see! Leonore.
Adults'! Wake up! Let us not feel that you completely ignored Gegenwärt'ge.
Tasso. It is the present, which I raised, Absent schein 'ich nur: I'm
delighted. Princess. I am glad, if you talk with spirits, That thou
so menschlich speak, and hear it gladly. (One Page to the Prince
enters and quietly directed something.)

Alphons. He has come! Right to good hour. Antonio! - Bring him - because
he already! The former fourth appearance. Antonio. Alphons. Welcome! The
thou us both yourself and bring good news. Princess. Be greeted us!
Antonio. Hardly wag 'I have to say what a pleasure in your present myself
revitalized.

Before your eyes find' I am everything, what I so long ' lacks. You
seem satisfied with what I done what I done, And I am rewarded for
any concern, for some soon with impatience durchharrten, Bald
deliberately verlornen day.

We have now what we want, and no dispute is more. Leonore. I also welcome
you, if I already Zürn.

You come just because I must travel. Antonio.

That my luck will not quite perfect, Will you like me across the beautiful
part. Tasso. Even my greeting!

I hope I am close to the much experienced man to friends. Antonio.
You will truly find me if you ever in your world in my look like.
Alphons.

If you are like me in letters already reported what you have done
and how it delivered to you, So hab 'ich still some auszufragen,
By what means the business succeeded.

On that wonderful soil to the well-measured step, when he last suited to
your purpose, you should lead.

Men Who his advantage purely consider He in Rome, even in a difficult
position because Rome wants to take everything, give nothing; And
to get there in order to get something, you get nothing, because
what you put out, And happy, because even if one gets what.

Antonio.

It is not my demeanor, my art, by thy will I, Lord, done; For what
Kluge fänd 'in the Vatican's failure to master?

Much came together, That I could use to our advantage. Honors you Gregor
and greets and blesses you. The old man, the worthy, a crown, the main
burden, thinks the time with joy, As he concluded his arm yourself.

The man, The men differs, you know, and boasts high! To deinetwillen he
did much. Alphons. I look I think its good, if it is honest. But
you probably know, from the Vatican down, one sees the rich already
small enough to his feet, let alone the prince and the people. Confess
only what helped you the most! Antonio. Good! If you want: The high
point of the Pope. He sees the little small, the large size. To make
it a world areastechnical there He likes his neighbors, and friendly
to. The sliver country he leaves you, he knows how your friend probably
appreciate. Italy will be quiet, he wants in his close friends to see
peace in its borders, that the power of Christianity, which he draws
enormous, the Turks because the heretics there Vertilger. princess. the
white men that he favors more than others, which to him confidentially
nahn? Antonio. Only the man has experienced his ear, The Zutraun his
acting, his favor. He, the youth served in the state, dominated him
and is now on those farms The prior years as a messenger already seen
and known and often led.

It is the world so clearly in front of his view as how the benefit of
its own state. If it does act, it says it is pleased And when the
time discovered what the long-dormant 'prepares and done. schönrer
There is no sight in the world, As a prince's see, the wise
regieret, Das Reich's see where everyone obeys proud, Where everyone
just believes himself to serve, because it The only rights are
commanded.

Leonore. How eagerly wants' world that I once right near sehn! Alphons.
But probably with effect merely because beschaun will never Leonore. It
would be quite good, my friend, If the big game, we also sometimes mix
the delicate hands could - Not? Leonore (too Alphons). You want to
irritate me, it will not succeed. Alphons. I'm much you owe from other
days. Leonore. Well, as a permanent 'I in your debt today! Verzeih' and
disturb my matters not.

(To Antonio.) Did it for the Nepoten done? Antonio. Not less nor more
than cheap. A powerful, for He does not care to know, by the people
themselves rebuked. Still and the moderate white Gregor His use of
the State as wackre men serve, and complies with One concern two related
obligations. Tasso.

Pleased science, enjoys the protection of his art, too? And he strives
to great lords of ancient times after? Antonio. He pays tribute to the
science, so far it uses to govern the state, teaches people to know,
he appreciates the arts, so far it adorns, Glory to Rome and palace and
temples to the wonders of these works Earth does. In its vicinity may
not be idle, what should be valid, must and should be used. Alphons.

And do you think that we will soon finishing shops can? The fact that
they are not as yet here and there we strew obstacles? Antonio. I would
have to me very wrong, if not the same Through your Nahmenszug,
by little more letters on this dispute would be lifted.

Alphons. So lob 'I these days of my life as a time of happiness and profits.
seh Advanced 'my line, you know for the future. Without a sword blow
Hast du's done, a citizen you probably deserved crown.

It will be our women from the first Eichenlaub most beautiful morning she
braided your forehead to the basket. However, I also enriches Tasso: he
has conquered Jerusalem for us And so the new Christendom ashamed,
A distant, ambitious with joyful courage and genuine diligence achieved.
For his trouble, you will see him crowned.

Antonio. You solved me a Räthsel. Two crowned sees' I Verwundrung because
I came from. Tasso. If you are my happiness before your eyes see, So
wish I, ashamed that you are my soul With this very eyes could look.
Antonio. I was there long known that Reward in Alphons is immoderate,
and you'll learn what each of his already learned. princess. If you only
see what he has done, So you will meet us and find mäßig. We are
only here the first witnesses to the silent applause that the world
he does not fail, And to him tenfold künft'ge years time. Antonio.
It is through you certainly have his fame. Who should doubt where you
can praise? But tell me who printed this wreath on Ariostes forehead?
Leonore. These hand. Antonio. And she has probably done! He
decorates it beautifully, as it to the bay itself would not adorn. How
deeply the nature of the breast with a green colored dress covers, So
he wraps everything that the people only venerable, worthy of love
can make, Enjoy blooming garb of fable one. satisfaction, experience
and intellect and mental power, pure taste and feel for the true
good, mentally, they seem to in his songs, but personally, as under
trees, flowers auszuruhn, cloud of snow easily getragnen of flowers,
surrounded by roses, whimsically umgaukelt From free magic game of
Cupids.

The source of abundance darneben roars, And makes us wonder colorful
fish sehn.

From rare poultry is the air from outside herds Wies' and Busch met; The
Schalkheit listens half-hidden in the green, The Wisdom of a can of
golden cloud from time to time, sublime Sayings sounds, however
well-tuned to the sounds of wild madness back and forth seems to burrow
And yet in the most beautiful clock that keeps mäßig. Who is next to
this man dare may deserve for his boldness even the wreath. Forgive, if
I even feel excited , Like an ecstatic neither the time nor the place,
yet what I say, can probably remember, because all these poets, these
wreaths, festive attire seltne The Fine Puts me from myself in
foreign country. princess.

People who are earning so well to appreciate, the others will not be
denied. Thou shalt dereinst us in Tassos songs show what we felt and
what only you remember. Alphons. Come, Antonio! Some hab 'ich still,
what I am very eager to ask.

"There is a strong feeling in my mind that this is a war of
  extermination.  `No quarter' is too frequently the cry on either side.
  I do not say that the Russians mean it to be so, but when
  Bashi-Bazouks torture their prisoners in cold blood, and show fiendish
  delight in the most diabolical acts of cruelty, even going the length
  of roasting people alive, is it strange that a brutalising effect is
  produced on the Russians, and that they retaliate in a somewhat
  similar spirit at times?  The truth is, mother, that one of the direct
  and most powerful effects of war is to dehumanise, and check the
  influence of, the good men engaged, while it affords a splendid
  opportunity to the vicious and brutal to give the rein to their
  passions, and work their will with impunity.

  "But, while this is so with the combatants, many of those outside the
  ring are stirred to pity and to noble deeds.  Witness the
  self-sacrificing labours of the volunteer heroes and heroines who do
  their work in an hospital such as this, and the generous deeds evoked
  from the peoples of other lands, such as the sending of two splendid
  and completely equipped ambulance trains of twenty-five carriages
  each, by the Berlin Central Committee of the International Association
  for the Relief of Sick and Wounded Soldiers in the field, the
  thousands of pounds that have been contributed by the Russians for the
  comfort of their sick and wounded, and the thousands contributed by
  England for that fund which embraces in its sympathies both Russian
  and Turk.  It seems to me that a great moral war is going on just
  now--a war between philanthropy and selfishness; but I grieve to say
  that while the former saves its thousands, the latter slays its tens
  of thousands.  Glorious though the result of our labours is, it is as
  nothing compared with the torrent of evil which has called us out, and
  the conclusion which has been forced upon me is, that we should--every
  one of us, man, woman, and child--hold and pertinaciously enforce the
  precept that war among civilised nations is outrageous and
  intolerable.  Of course we cannot avoid it sometimes.  If a man _will_
  insist on fighting _me_, I have no resource left but to fight _him_;
  but for two CIVILISED nations to go to war for the settlement of a
  dispute is an unreasonable and childish and silly as it would be for
  two gentlemen, who should differ in opinion, to step into the middle
  of a peaceful drawing-room, button up their coats, turn up their
  wristbands, and proceed to batter each other's eyes and noses,
  regardless of ladies, children, and valuables.  War would be a
  contemptible farce if it were not a tremendous tragedy."

My mother's reply to this letter was characteristic and brief.

  "My dear Jeff," she wrote, "in regard to your strictures on war I have
  only to say that I agree with you, as I have always done on all
  points, heart and soul.  Don't forget to keep your feet dry when
  sleeping out at nights, and never omit to take the globules."

While I was busy at Sistova--too busy with the pressing duties of my
post to think much of absent friends, my poor servant Lancey was going
through a series of experiences still more strange and trying than my
own.

As I have said, he had been appointed by Sanda Pasha to a post in
connection with a Turkish ambulance corps.  He was on his way to the
front, when the detachment with which he travelled met with a reverse
which materially affected his fortunes for some time after.

There were two Turkish soldiers with whom Lancey was thrown much in
contact, and with whom he had become very intimate.  There was nothing
very particular in the appearance of the two men, except that they
formed contrasts, one being tall and thin, the other short and thick.
Both were comrades and bosom friends, and both took a strong fancy to
their English comrade.  Lancey had also taken a fancy to them.  It was,
in short, the old story of "kindred souls," and, despite the fact that
these Turks were to Lancey "furriners" and "unbelievers," while he was
to them a "giaour," they felt strong human sympathies which drew them
powerfully together.  The name of the thick little man was Ali Bobo,
that of the tall comrade Eskiwin.

That these two loved each other intensely, although Turks, was the first
thing that touched Lancey's feelings.  On discovering that Ali Bobo
happened to have dwelt for a long time with an English merchant in
Constantinople, and could speak a little of something that was
understood to be English, he became intimate and communicative.

Not more tender was the love of David and Jonathan than was that of
Eskiwin and Ali Bobo.  As the screw to the nut, so fitted the one to the
other.  Eskiwin was grave, his friend was funny.  Ali Bobo was smart,
his comrade was slow.  They never clashed.  Jacob Lancey, being quiet
and sedate, observed the two, admired each, philosophised on both and
gained their esteem.  Their friendship, alas! was of short duration.

"You's goodish sorro man," said Ali Bobo to Lancey one evening, as they
sat over the camp-fire smoking their pipes in concert.

Lancey made no reply, but nodded his head as if in approval of the
sentiment.

"Heskiwin, 'e's a good un too, hain't 'e, Bobo?" asked Lancey, pointing
with his thumb to the tall Turk, who sat cross-legged beside him smoking
a chibouk.

Ali Bobo smiled in the way that a man does when he thinks a great deal
more than he chooses to express.

At that moment the officer in command of the detachment galloped
furiously into the camp with the information that the Russians were upon
them!

Instantly all was uproar, and a scramble to get out of the way.
Eskiwin, however, was an exception.  He was a man of quiet promptitude.
Deliberately dropping his pipe, he rose and saddled his horse, while his
more excitable comrades were struggling hurriedly, and therefore slowly,
with the buckles of their harness.  Ali Bobo was not less cool, though
more active.  Lancey chanced to break his stirrup-leather in mounting.

"I say, Bobo," he called to his stout little friend, who was near, "lend
a 'and, like a good fellow.  This brute won't stand still.  Give us a
leg."

The little Turk put his hand on Lancey's instep and hoisted him into the
saddle.  Next moment the whole party was in full retreat.  Not a moment
too soon either.  A scattering volley from the Russians, who were coming
on in force, quickened their movements.

The faint moonlight enabled the Turks to distance their pursuers, and
soon the chase appeared to be given up.  Still, most of the detachment
continued its headlong retreat for a considerable time.

Suddenly Eskiwin observed that Ali Bobo swayed from side to side as he
rode, and then fell heavily to the ground.  He pulled up at once and
dismounted.  Lancey, who saw what had happened, also dismounted.  The
rest of the detachment was out of sight in a moment.  There was no sound
of pursuers, and they found themselves left thus in a lonely spot among
the hills.

On examining the fallen Turk it was found that he had been hit by two
balls.  One had apparently penetrated his shoulder, the other had grazed
his temple.  It was the latter which had brought him to the ground, but
the shoulder-wound seemed to be the more dangerous.

"Dead!" said Lancey solemnly, as he kneeled beside the body.

Eskiwin made no answer, his grave countenance expressed nothing but
stern decision.  His friend's face was colourless, motionless, and
growing cold.  He raised Bobo's hand and let it drop as he gazed
mournfully into his face.

Just then the sound of the pursuers was heard, as if searching the
neighbouring thicket.

Eskiwin rose slowly, and, with his bayonet, began to dig a grave.  The
soil was soft.  A hollow was soon scooped out, and the dead Turk was put
therein.  But while the two men were engaged in burying it, the Russians
were heard still beating about in the thicket, and apparently drawing
near.  Lancey felt uneasy.  Still Eskiwin moved with slow deliberation.
When the grave was covered he kneeled and prayed.

"Come, come; you can do that on horseback" said Lancey, with impatience.

Eskiwin took no notice of the irreverent interruption, but calmly
finished his prayer, cast one sorrowful glance on the grave, and
remounted his charger.

Lancey was about to do the same, being retarded by the broken
stirrup-leather, when a tremendous shout caused his horse to swerve,
break its bridle, and dash away.  At the same moment a band of Don
Cossacks came swooping down the gorge.  Lancey flung himself flat
beneath a mass of underwood.  The Cossacks saw only one horseman, and
went past the place with a wild yell.  Another moment and Lancey was
left alone beside the grave.

To find his way out of the thicket was now the poor man's chief care,
but this was difficult, for, besides being ignorant of the road, he had
to contend with darkness, the moon having become obscured.

It is a well-known fact that when a lost man wanders he does so in a
circle.  Twice, during that night, did Lancey start with a view to get
away from that spot, and twice did he find himself, after two hours'
wandering, at the side of Ali Bobo's grave.  A third time he set out,
and at the end of that effort he not only came back to the same spot,
but chanced, inadvertently, to plant his foot over the stomach of the
luckless Turk.

This was too much, even for a dead man.  Ali Bobo turned in his shallow
grave, scattered the sod, and, sitting up, looked round him with an
expression of surprise.  At that moment the moon came out as if
expressly for the purpose of throwing light on the dusty, blood-stained,
and cadaverous visage of the Turk.

Jacob Lancey, although a brave man, was superstitious.  On beholding the
yellow countenance and glaring eyeballs turned full upon him, he uttered
a yell of deadly terror, turned sharp round and fled, stumbling over
stumps and stones in his blind career.  The Don Cossacks heard the yell,
and made for the spot.  Lancey saw them coming, doubled, and eluded
them.  Perceiving only a wounded man sitting on the ground, the foremost
Cossack levelled his lance and charged.  Ali Bobo's stare of surprise
developed into a glare of petrified consternation.  When the Cossack
drew near enough to perceive an apparently dead man sitting up in his
grave, he gave vent to a hideous roar of horror, turned off at a
tangent, and shot away into the bushes.  Those in rear, supposing that
he had come on an ambuscade, followed his example, and, in another
moment, Ali Bobo was left alone to his moonlight reflections.

That these were of a perplexing nature was evident from his movements.
Allowing his eyes to resume their ordinary aspect, he looked round him
with a troubled expression, while his fingers played slowly with the
loose earth that still covered his legs.  Then he shook his head, after
that he scratched it, and put on his fez, which had fallen off.
Finding, apparently, that meditation was of no avail, he finally heaved
a deep sigh, rose, shook off the dust, picked up his rifle and marched
away.

He had not gone far when he came upon Lancey, who, having fled with such
haste that he could scarcely breathe, had been fain to lie down and rest
for a few minutes.  Hearing a step behind him, he started up.  One
glance sufficed.  The dead Turk again!  With another horrific howl he
plunged headlong into the nearest thicket and disappeared.

A humorous smile stole over the features of Ali Bobo as he began to
understand the situation.  He searched the thicket, but his late
companion was not to be found.  Continuing his march, therefore, he
travelled all night.  Next morning he found his detachment, and
introduced himself to his friend Eskiwin, whose astonishment, I need
scarcely say, was great, but his joy was greater.

Ali Bobo's wounds turned out after all to be slight, and were not
permitted by him to interfere long with his service in the field.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

LANCEY GETS EMBROILED IN TROUBLES, AND SEES SOME PECULIAR SERVICE.

Meanwhile Jacob Lancey, impressed with the belief that the Turkish
detachment had taken to the mountains, travelled as rapidly as possible
in that direction.

Next morning at daybreak he found himself so thoroughly exhausted as to
be unable to proceed.  With difficulty he climbed a neighbouring
eminence, which, being clear of bushes, gave him a view of the country
around.  There was a small village, or hamlet, within a stone's throw of
him.  The sight revived his drooping spirits.  He descended to it at
once, but found no one stirring--not even a dog.  Perceiving a small
outhouse with its door ajar, he went to it and peeped in.  There were a
few bundles of straw in a corner.  The temptation was irresistible.  He
entered, flung himself on the straw, and fell sound asleep almost
immediately.

The sun was shining high in the heavens when he was awakened by a rude
shake.  He started up and found himself in the rough grasp of a
Bulgarian peasant.

Lancey, although mentally and morally a man of peace, was physically
pugnacious.  He grappled at once with the Bulgarian, and being, as we
have said, a powerful fellow, soon had him on his back with a hand
compressing his windpipe, and a knee thrust into his stomach.  It would
certainly have fared ill with the Bulgarian that day if a villager had
not been attracted to the hut by the noise of the scuffle.  Seeing how
matters stood, he uttered a shout which brought on the scene three more
villagers, who at once overwhelmed Lancey, bound him, and led him before
the chief man of the place.

This chief man was a Turk with a very black beard.  Lancey of course
expected to receive severe punishment without trial.  But, on hearing
that he had merely attacked a Bulgarian, the Turk seemed rather inclined
to favour the prisoner than otherwise.  At all events, after
ascertaining that he could not communicate with him by any known
language, he sent him to his kitchen to obtain a meal, and afterwards
allowed him to depart, to the evident indignation of the Bulgarian and
his friends, who did not, however, dare to show their feelings.

For some time Lancey wandered about endeavouring to make friends with
the people, but without success.  As the day advanced, the men, and most
of the women, went to work in the fields.  Feeling that he had not
obtained nearly enough of sleep, our wanderer took an opportunity of
slipping into another outhouse, where he climbed into an empty loft.
There was a small hole in the loft near the floor.  As he lay down and
pillowed his head on a beam, he found that he could see the greater part
of the village through the hole, but this fact had barely reached his
brain, when he had again fallen into the heavy slumber of an exhausted
man.

His next awakening was caused by shouts and cries.  He raised himself on
one elbow and looked out of his hole.  A large body of Russian soldiers
had entered the village, and were welcomed with wild joy by the
Bulgarians, while the Turkish inhabitants--those of them who had not
been able or willing to leave--remained quiet, but polite.  The column
halted.  The men swarmed about the place and "requisitioned," as the
phrase goes, whatever they wanted--that is, they took what they chose
from the people, whether they were willing or not.  To do them justice,
they paid for it, though in most cases the payment was too little.

There was a good deal of noisy demonstration, and some rough treatment
of the inhabitants on the part of those who had come to deliver them,
but beyond being "cleaned out," and an insufficient equivalent left in
money, they were not greatly the worse of this visit from the regulars.

The loft where Lancey had ensconced himself did not attract attention.
He felt, therefore, comparatively safe, and, while he watched the doings
of the soldiery, opened his wallet and made a hearty meal on the debris
of his rations.

Before he had finished it the trumpets sounded, the troops fell in, and
the column left the place.

Then occurred a scene which astonished him not a little.  No sooner were
the troops out of sight than the Bulgarian population, rising _en
masse_, fell upon their Turkish brethren and maltreated them terribly.
They did not, indeed, murder them, but they pillaged and burned some of
their houses, and behaved altogether in a wild and savage manner.
Lancey could not understand it.  Perhaps if he had known that these
Bulgarians had, for many years, suffered horrible oppression and
contemptuous treatment from the Turks under whose misrule they lay, he
might have felt less surprise, though he might not have justified the
act of revenge.  If it be true that the worm turns on the foot that
crushes it, surely it is no matter of wonder that human beings, who have
long been debased, defrauded, and demoralised, should turn and bite
somewhat savagely when opportunity offers!

It had occurred to Lancey, when the Russians had arrived, that it would
be well for him to descend and join these troops, so as to get out of
his present predicament; but, remembering that he had actually accepted
service with the Turks, and that, being clothed in a semi-Turkish
costume, he might be taken for a spy, he resolved to remain where he
was.  The riot in the village after the Russian column had left
confirmed him in his intention to remain quiet.

"Your wisest plan, Jacob," he soliloquised, "is to 'old on and bide your
time.  Don't 'urry yourself on any account."

Scarcely had he made this resolve when, looking through his hole of
observation, he observed a body of spearmen galloping along the road
that led to the village.  The inhabitants also observed them with some
anxiety, for by that time they had come to know the difference between
regular and irregular troops.

The horsemen proved to be Cossacks.  The Bulgarians, of course, regarded
them as friends.  They formed a portion of the army of deliverers from
Turkish misrule.  As such they were received with cheers.  The cheers
were returned heartily--in some cases mingled with laughter--by the gay
cavaliers, who had also come to make "requisitions."  Their mode of
proceeding, however, was quite different from that of their "regular"
brethren.  Leaping from their saddles, they set about the business
without delay.  Some went to the fields and cut grain for fodder.
Others entered the houses and carried off victuals and wine, while many
chased and caught pigs and poultry.

They were evidently in a hurry.  So much so, that they had no time to
put off in making payment!  It was obviously to be regarded as an
outstanding debt against them by the villagers.  As the rear-guard
passed out of the place, the corporal in command observed a fat young
pig in the middle of a by-road.  He turned aside sharply, charged,
picked the pig neatly up on the point of his lance, and galloped after
his friends, accompanied by a tune that would have done credit to a
Scotch bagpipe.

All this did Lancey see from his secret point of observation, and deeply
did his philosophic mind moralise on what he saw.

The village in which he had sought shelter was in the very heart of the
district swept by the wave of war.  The panorama of incidents commenced
to move again at an early hour.

When morning light had just begun to conquer night, Lancey was once more
awakened from a refreshing sleep by a noise in the room below.  He
looked down and saw an old, old woman, with bent form, tottering step,
and wrinkled brow.  She was searching for something which, evidently,
she could not find.  Scraping various things, however, and tasting the
ends of her thin fingers, suggested that she was in search of food.
Lancey was a sympathetic soul.  The old woman's visage reminded him of
his own mother--dead and gone for many a day, but fresh and beautiful as
ever in the memory of her son.

He descended at once.  The old woman had flung herself down in despair
in a corner of the hovel.  Lancey quickly emptied the remnants of food
in his wallet into her lap.

It would have saddened you, reader, to have seen the way in which that
poor old thing hungrily munched a mouthful of the broken victuals
without asking questions, though she glanced her gratitude out of a pair
of large black eyes, while she tied up the remainder in a kerchief with
trembling haste.

"No doubt," soliloquised Lancey, as he sat on a stool and watched her,
"you were a pretty gal once, an' somebody loved you."

It did not occur to Lancey, for his philosophy was not deep, that she
might have been loved more than "once," even although she had _not_ been
a "pretty gal;" neither did it occur to him--for he did not know--that
she was loved still by an old, old man in a neighbouring hut, whose
supper had been carried off by the Cossacks, and whose welfare had
induced her to go out in search of food.

While the two were thus engaged their attention was attracted by a noise
outside.  Hastening to the door Lancey peeped out and beheld a band of
Bashi-Bazouks galloping up the road.  The Turks of the village began to
hold up their heads again, for they regarded these as friends, but scant
was the courtesy they received from them.  To dismount and pillage, and
to slay where the smallest opposition was offered, seemed the order of
the day with these miscreants.  For some time none of them came near to
the hut where Lancey and the old woman were concealed, as it stood in an
out-of-the-way corner and escaped notice.

While the robbers were busy, a wild cheer, accompanied by shots and
cries, was heard some distance along the road.  The Bashi-Bazouks heard
it and fled.  A few minutes later Lancey saw Turkish soldiers running
into the village in scattered groups, but stopping to fire as they ran,
like men who fight while they retreat.  Immediately after there was a
rush of men, and a column of Turkish infantry occupied the village in
force.  They were evidently hard pressed, for the men ran and acted with
that quick nervous energy which denotes imminent danger.

They swarmed into the houses, dashed open the windows, knocked out
loop-holes in the walls, and kept up a furious fusillade, while
whistling balls came back in reply, and laid many of them low.

One party of Turks at last made a rush to the hut where Lancey sat with
the old woman.  There was no weapon of any sort in the hut, and as
Lancey's arms had been taken from him when he was captured, he deemed it
the wisest policy to sit still.

Leaping in with a rush, the Turks shut and barred the door.  They saw
Lancey, but had evidently no time to waste on him.  The window-frame was
dashed out with rifle-butts, and quick firing was commenced by some,
while others made loop-holes in the mud walls with their bayonets.
Bullets came pinging through the window and brought down masses of
plaster from the walls.  Suddenly a terrible yell rang in the little
room, and the commander of the party, raising both hands above him,
dropped his sword and fell with a terrible crash.  He put a hand to his
side and writhed on the floor in agony, while blood flowed copiously
from his wound.  The poor fellow's pain lasted but a moment or two.  His
head fell back suddenly, and the face became ashy pale, while his
glaring eyeballs were transfixed in death.

No notice was taken of this except by a man who sat down on the floor
beside his dead commander, to bandage his own wounded arm.  Before he
had finished his task, a shout from his comrades told that danger
approached.  Immediately the whole party rushed out of the hut by a back
door.  At the same instant the front door was burst open, and a soldier
leaped in.

It was evident to Lancey that, in the midst of smoke and turmoil, a
mistake had been made, for the man who appeared was not a Russian but a
Turk.  He was followed by several companions.

Casting a savage piercing look on Lancey, and apparently not feeling
sure, from his appearance, whether he was friend or foe, the man
presented his rifle and fired.  The ball grazed Lancey's chest, and
entering the forehead of the old woman scattered her brains on the wall.

For one moment Lancey stood horror-struck, then uttered a roar of rage,
rose like a giant in his wrath, and seized a rifle which had been
dropped by one of the fugitive soldiers.  In an instant the bayonet was
deep in the chest of his adversary.  Wrenching it out, he swung the rile
round and brought the butt down on the skull of the man behind, which it
crushed in like an egg-shell.  Staggered by the fury of the onslaught,
those in rear shrank back.  Lancey charged them, and drove them out
pell-mell.  Finding the bayonet in his way, he wrenched it off, and,
clubbing the rifle, laid about him with it as if it had been a
walking-cane.

There can be no question that insanity bestows temporary and almost
supernatural power.  Lancey was for the time insane.  Every sweep of the
rifle stretched a man on the ground.  There was a wavering band of Turks
around him.  The cheers of victorious Russians were ringing in their
ears.  Bullets were whizzing, and men were falling.  Shelter was
urgently needful.  Little wonder, then, that one tall sturdy madman
should drive a whole company before him.  The Russians saw him as they
came on, and cheered encouragingly.  He replied with savage laughter and
in another moment the Turks were flying before him in all directions.

Then Lancey stopped, let the butt of his rifle drop, leaned against the
corner of a burning house, and drew his left hand across his brow.  Some
passing Russians clapped him on the back and cheered as they ran on to
continue the bloody work of ameliorating the condition of the Bulgarian
Christians.

Nearly the whole village was in flames by that time.  From the windows
of every house that could yet be held, a continuous fire was kept up.
The Russians replied to it from the streets, rushing, in little bands,
from point to point, where shelter could be found, so as to escape from
the withering shower of lead.  Daring men, with apparently charmed
lives, ran straight up in the face of the enemy, sending death in
advance of them as they ran.  Others, piling brushwood on a cart, pushed
the mass before them, for the double purpose of sheltering themselves
and of conveying combustibles to the door of the chief house of the
town, to which most of the inhabitants, with a company of Turks, had
retired.

But the brushwood proved a poor defence, for many of those who stooped
behind it, as they ran, suddenly collapsed and dropped, as men are wont
to do when hit in the brain.  Still, a few were left to push the cart
forward.  Smoke disconcerted the aim of the defenders to some extent,
and terror helped to make the firing wild and non-effective.

Against the town-house of the village some of the Russians had already
drawn themselves up so flat and close that the defenders at the windows
could not cover them with their rifles.  These ran out ever and anon to
fire a shot, and returned to reload.  Meanwhile the brushwood was
applied to the door and set on fire, amid yells of fiendish joy.

Lancey had followed the crowd almost mechanically.  He had no enemy--no
object.  The Turk, as it happened, was, for the time being, his friend.

The Muscovite was not, and never had been, his foe.  After the first
deadly burst of his fury on seeing the innocent old woman massacred had
passed, his rage lost all point.  But he could not calm his quivering
nerves or check the fierce flow of his boiling blood.  Onward he went
with the shouting, cheering, yelling, and cursing crowd of soldiery, his
clothes cut in many places with bullets, though flesh and bone were
spared.

Close to the town-house stood the dwelling of the Turk who had released
him, and shown him hospitality when he was seized by the inhabitants.
The door of the house was being burst open by clubbed rifles.  The
memory of a "helping hand," however slight, was sufficient to give
direction to the rage of the madman, for such he still undoubtedly was
at the moment--like many another man who had become sane enough the
following day when the muster-roll was called.

Up to that moment he had been drifting before the gale.  He now seized
the helm of his rage, and, upsetting two or three of the men who stood
in his way, soon drew near to the front.  As he came forward the door
gave way.  A tremendous discharge of fire-arms laid low every man in
advance; but of what avail is it to slay hundreds when thousands press
on in rear?

Lancey sprang over the dead and was met by the points of half a dozen
bayonets,--the foremost man being his deliverer with the black beard.

Grounding his rifle with a crash, and holding up his left hand, he
shouted--"A friend!"

At the same moment he was thrown down and leaped over by the soldiers
behind, who were stabbed by the Turks and fell on him.  But Lancey
staggered again to his feet, and using his superior strength to push
aside and crush through those in front, he gained an empty passage
before the others did, and rushed along towards a door at the end of it.

Opening the door and entering he was arrested by the sight of a
beautiful Turkish girl, who stood gazing at him in horror.  Before he
had time to speak or act, a door at the other end of the room opened,
and the Turk with the black beard entered sword in hand.  The girl
rushed into his arms, with a cry of joy.  But this was changed into
alarm as the Turk flung her off and ran at Lancey.

There was no time for explanation.  The Russians were already heard
coming along the passage by which he had reached the apartment.  Lancey
felt intuitively that a brave man would not stab him in the back.
Instead of defending himself he dropped his rifle, turned, and hastily
shut and bolted the door, then, turning towards the Turk, held aloft his
unarmed hands.  The Turk was quick to understand.  He nodded, and
assisted his ally to barricade the door with furniture, so that no one
could force a passage for a considerable time.  Then they ran to the
other door, which had not yet been menaced.  They were almost too late,
for shouts and tramping feet were heard approaching.

Lancey caught up his rifle, stepped out of the room, shut the door, and,
locking it on the Turk and his daughter, commenced to pace calmly up and
down in front of it like a sentinel.  Another moment and the Russians
rushed up, but halted and looked surprised on beholding a sentinel
there, who did not even condescend to stop in his slow measured march,
or to bring his arms to the charge to stop them.

One of them advanced to the door, but Lancey grasped his waist with one
hand, gently, almost remonstratively, and shook his head.  As the man
persisted, Lancey gave him a throw which was peculiarly Cornish in its
character--he slewed his hip round under the Russian's groin and hurled
him back heels over head amongst his comrades, after which feat he
resumed the sedate march of a sentinel.

By this time he had been recognised as the man who had routed a whole
Turkish company, and was greeted with a laugh and a loud cheer, as the
men turned away and ran to effect some other work of destruction.

"Now, my fine fellow," said Lancey, opening the door and entering.
"You'll 'ave to defend yourself, for I'm neither a friend o' the Turk
nor the Rooshian.  They're fools, if not worse, both of 'em, in my
opinion; but one good turn desarves another, so now you an' I are quits.
Adoo!"

Hurrying out of the house, Lancey picked up a Russian cap and greatcoat
as he ran, and put them on, having a vague perception that they might
help to prevent his being made prisoner.

He was right.  At all events, in the confusion of the moment, he passed
through the village, and escaped unnoticed into a neighbouring thicket,
whence he succeeded in retiring altogether beyond the range of the
assailed position.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

IN WHICH SOME DESPERATE ENTERPRISES ARE UNDERTAKEN.

At this time the Russians had taken up a strong position in the Balkan
mountain range, and entrenched themselves within a short distance of the
enemy.

After a night and a day of aimless wandering, Jacob Lancey found himself
at last in a rocky defile between the hostile lines.  How he got there
he could not tell, but there he was, in a position of imminent danger,
with the sentinels of the belligerent armies on either side of him.

Evening was setting in when he made this discovery, and recoiled,
happily without having been seen, into a narrow rocky place where the
fast-failing light had already deepened into gloom.  A cold white fog
was slowly creeping up from the valleys and covering the hill-sides.

It is in such places and circumstances that men conceive and execute
designs, which, according to their nature, are deeds of recklessness or
of heroism.  Two such ventures were afoot that night.

In the Russian camp preparations were being made for a night attack on a
village in possession of the Turks, and out of which, with a view to
future movements, it was deemed necessary to drive them.  In this
village there dwelt a youth, an intimate friend of Dobri Petroff.  The
two had played with each other in childhood, had roamed about the
country together in boyhood, and, when they reached man's estate, had
become faster friends than ever, being bound by the ties of intellectual
as well as physical sympathy.  When this friend, Petko Borronow, left
Yenilik at the death of his mother, it was to take charge of the little
farm in the Balkan mountains,--the desolate home where his sister
Giuana, an invalid, and a beautiful girl, was now left in solitude.

In his capacity of scout, Petroff was always in the neighbourhood of
headquarters, and was frequently summoned to the tent of the general
commanding, to be interrogated.  Thus he chanced to overhear occasional
remarks and hints which, when pieced together by his intelligent mind,
showed him pretty clearly what was pending.

He sat by the camp-fire that night, buried in meditation, with a series
of troubled wrinkles on a brow that was usually open and unclouded.
Many a time did he light his pipe and forget to smoke it, and relight
it, and again let it die out, until his comrades were impressed by his
absence of mind.  Well did the scout know by that time the certain fate
of a village which was to be fought for by contending armies.  To warn
his friend Borronow in time to remove his sister from the doomed village
became to the scout a duty which must be performed at all hazards, but
how to do this without deserting his post, and appearing to go over to
the enemy, was the difficulty.

"Something troubles you," said his young friend Andre Vanovitch, who had
for some time sat smoking quietly at his side, gazing into the fire, and
thinking, no doubt, of the girl with the auburn hair, far away in the
land of the Muscove.

"Yes, I'm troubled about friends," was the scout's laconic answer.

"Oh! they're all right, you may be sure, now that our fellows have
crossed the Danube in such force," said Andre, supposing that the other
referred to his family.

"Perhaps!" returned Petroff, and relapsed into silence.

Suddenly it occurred to him that he had overheard some expression among
the officers around the General of a desire to know more particularly
about the disposition of the Turkish force, and the suggestion that a
spy should be sent out.  His brow cleared at once; with almost a
triumphant look on his countenance, he turned sharply to Andre, and
seized his arm.

"Well, Dobri," said the latter, with a smile and look of surprise, "I
have had perfect faith in the strength of your grip without requiring
positive proof."

"Listen," said the scout earnestly.  "I have a job to do, and a risk to
run."

"That is obvious to every one in the division," returned Andre, with a
touch of the smile still curling his young moustache.

"Ay, but I mean a private job, and a great risk--the risk of being shot
as a traitor or a spy, and I want you, Andre, to clear my character with
the Russians if it fares ill with me."

Petroff's unwonted energy of action and earnestness of look and tone
produced their effect on the young dragoon.  He listened intently while
his friend told him of his intended plan.

"But why go into the enemy's lines without permission?" objected Andre.
"Why risk being thought a deserter when you have only to go and ask
leave?  It seems to me they would be only too glad to accept your
services as a spy."

"I'm not certain that they would accept them," replied the scout, with a
return of the perplexed look; "and if they chanced to refuse leave, my
case would be hopeless, because I could not and would not dare to act in
opposition to positive orders; whereas, if I go off without leave, I
shall only be blamed for undertaking a foolish or reckless act; that is,
if I return in safety.  If I don't return at all, it won't matter what
is said or done, but I should count on you, Andre, explaining that I did
not desert."

"But," returned Andre, "if you merely go to warn and save your friends,
I think the General won't think much of your spying."

"You do me injustice, lad," said Petroff quietly.  "I shall enter the
enemy's lines as a real spy.  I will visit every point of his position,
ascertain the number of his troops, count his guns, and bring in such
information as will make the General wink, I hope, at my having acted
without orders.  It would please me better to go with permission, but I
cannot allow the lives of my friends to hang upon the chance humour of a
Russian general.  You must remember, Andre, that I am not a Russian
soldier, and may therefore take upon me to exercise a little more
personal liberty than you can.  Why, you know," continued the scout,
with a touch of humour in his glance, as he rose and made some
preliminary preparations, "I might refuse to lead you Russians, or might
lead you to your destruction."

"You would be shot if you did," returned the dragoon quietly.

"And what if I am willing to be shot in a good cause?  I should be no
greater hero than every man in your armies.  But now, Andre, one more
shake of your hand.  We may never meet again, and I won't part without
saying I've taken a fancy to you."

"God knows I can truly say the same to you," cried Andre, leaping up
with enthusiasm, and seizing the scout's hand with a grasp as powerful
as his own.

"And don't be angry," added Petroff, in a gentle tone, as he tightened
his belt, "if I again urge you to keep the locket always in remembrance.
You're not likely ever to forget the auburn hair, but you _may_, lad,
you may, for there is no perfection in this world, and soldiering is a
dangerous life."

Andre smiled half-contemptuously.  He _felt_ that the advice was
needless.  Petroff also smiled kindly, for he knew that it might be
needful.

Neither of these men was very deeply impressed with the fact that
keeping before the mental eye the Maker of the "auburn hair," and of all
other blessed human influences, was a better and safer refuge.  But what
matter?  Does not our Creator in all His dealings make use of means?
Does He not lead us step by step from a lower to a higher level?  There
are no ready-made human angels in this life, male or female, with
full-grown wings to bear them over the troubles of earth to a state of
sudden sanctification.  We are in a rebel world, and, when lifted from
the pit by a Saviour's hand, the steps by which the Spirit of God leads
us upwards are numerous as well as varied, including sometimes--I write
without irreverence--such footholds as "auburn hair."

Disguised as a Bulgarian rustic, Dobri Petroff left the Russian camp,
passed the outposts, and, under cover of the fog, gained the neutral
ground between the two armies.

Of course the sentries on both sides were numerous as well as vigilant--
especially so on such a night.  It therefore behoved him to advance with
extreme caution.  Creeping from mound to rock, and bush to knoll, he
reached a small clump of bushes, into which he entered for the purpose
of resting a few minutes and considering well his future movements.

A thrill of excitement ran through his frame when he discovered that he
was not alone in this thicket.  A man sat there leaning against a tree
as if asleep.  The scout crouched and drew a revolver.  A moment
sufficed to show that his arrival had not been observed.  No wonder, for
his approach had been like that of a cat!  He was now in great
perplexity.  The man was evidently not a sentinel of either
belligerent--that was plain, but it was equally plain that he was armed.
To shoot him would be impossible without putting the sentries of both
sides on the alert.  To pass him in so small a thicket, without
attracting attention, would be difficult.  To draw back would
necessitate a long detour, involving loss of precious time and increase
of risk.  A thought occurred to him.  Many a time had he hunted among
these mountains, and well accustomed was he to glide with serpentine
caution towards his game.  He would stalk him!  Petroff seldom thought
twice in cases of emergency.  He unbuckled his sword quietly and hung it
on a branch, and leant his carbine against a tree, resolving to trust to
his great personal strength alone, for he did not mean to sacrifice life
if he could avoid it.  In case of being driven to extremity, his knife
and revolver would suffice.

Then, sinking down until he became lost among the deep shadows of bush
and brake, he began the slow, laborious, and silent process of gliding
towards his unconscious victim.

This was one of those ventures to which we have referred as being afoot
on that foggy night.  The other venture had some points of similarity to
it, though the end in view was different.

Let us turn aside for a little to the Turkish camp.

There, round one of the watch-fires, a considerable distance to the
rear, stood a group of Turkish soldiers chatting and smoking.  Although
not so noisy as the Russians round their camp-fires, these Turks were by
no means taciturn.  There was a touch, now and then, of dry humour in
the remarks of some, and a sedate chuckle occasionally.  Among them
stood Eskiwin and his resuscitated friend Ali Bobo.  The latter,
although not naturally boastful, had been so nettled by a big comrade
underrating his courage and muscular power, in regard to which latter
he, Bobo, was rather vain, that he vowed he would prove both by going to
the front and bringing in, single-handed, a live Russian sentinel!

The big comrade laughed contemptuously, whereupon Ali Bobo rose to carry
out his threat, but was warned by his mates of the danger of being shot
by his own commander for going on such an errand without leave.  Bobo
replied that his captain would forgive him when he presented his Russian
prisoner.  As it was clear that the angry little man was in earnest, his
friend Eskiwin vowed he would go with him, and the big comrade agreed to
regard the deed as a sufficient proof of Ali Bobo's strength and prowess
if a Russian should be brought in by the two of them.  Bobo would have
preferred to go alone, but Eskiwin would take no denial.

Accordingly the two adventurous fellows went off and were soon lost in
the fog.  In a short time they reached the front, and began to move with
excessive caution in order to pass their own sentries unobserved.

Ali Bobo, it must be remarked, had not originated this idea of stalking
sentinels.  Some Albanians in the army had already done so with great
success; but these ferocious murderers had done it for the mere pleasure
of killing their enemies, without any other end in view.  Their method
was to creep towards a wearied sentinel, which they did with comparative
ease, being expert mountaineers.  Each man on reaching his victim sprang
on him from behind, clapped a hand on his mouth, crushed his neck, after
the manner of garrotters, with his strong left arm, and drawing a long
keen knife thrust it into his heart.

But our adventurers had no such murderous design as this.  To capture a
live Russian was their aim.

The front reached, and the Turkish line of sentries safely passed in the
fog, they came unexpectedly on two Russian horsemen who were cautiously
riding towards the Turkish lines.  She saw the refugees, with men
rushing errafften belongings, the women with their children, one
had a baby is lost, the other collapsed, and they were without
food and drink and the night on the field and then went without
a goal.

She saw it in the long Viehwagen trains detained as they drove, always
went through a world in which there are only charred ruins still
existed, and how they screamed for bread, and how their children
starved their babies verschmachteten.

She saw the prisoners, the castaways on a desert island pared; saw the
fathers, not sons, the children, the father no longer had the widows, the
grieving brides, the abandoned, looted, underlying addressed anywhere.
She saw the brave erlahmen, the figs are apathetic, and how the
friends stopped, for each other to shake. They saw the changing of
injustice, bribery and resetting, looked like the torch to the
idea even in noble expired when the turbid flood of low and ordinary
emporschwoll or physical suffering the force of the soul defeated.

How lame flügel the enthusiasm, the courage to grimace was the adventure
for the Leichtherzigsten its appeal, the danger of losing their
temptation, and only the strongest, nor the reputation of maintaining
compulsory. Olivia saw the cities of smoke, the looted property, which
tramples acres, Forests fold. She saw the death in any shape, yes,
the earth was paved with the dead.

They were mutilated in the Drahtverhauen and were embedded in
flowers, they were immersed in the swamps and hinuntergestürzt in
mountain ravines, they swam in the waves of the sea and fell down
from the clouds: men and youths, children and old people, women and
girls, rich and poor, good and bad, traitors and treachery, beauty
and ugly, happy and unhappy.

And they heard the bell of the bell and the crackle of the fires and
all the sounds that the human voice, to pain and fear of death
express.

She heard, as they prayed in the churches and the offices crying.
She heard the words of farewell and the words of pious docility. She
heard the marching step of the armies, the slurp tired columns, which
sighing rush of the beaten, the songs of triumph, and the songs they
sang when they forget or if they wanted to inebriate. There was
a song which her husband a country storm vorsang , in a night at
the fire grenades have had white hair. is ordered their farmers:
if the spades, to bury, to bury the soldiers.

One of fathoms deep, twenty fathoms length, dritthalb Ellen wide, because
they are not close. Hurtig, People, hurtig; excavated earth!

the municipalities down, Corporal above. On the sides four, in the
middle of four, cross the Gentlemen, gentlemen officers. Then the Lord
of the colonel in solid chest, which is no longer deserved rest.

Have their Ruh, the valiant comrades, it only re-home their farmers with
the spade. Tomorrow morning, perhaps I am also shooting, tomorrow
morning, certainly, my blood flowed. These simple verses on Olivia
made an unusual impression, and her thoughts began zerstückten
behind the gearbox and confused after looking at something specific.

It was everything to her vision, always ardent and fervent, and
they looked in the confusion after a glowing figure. She sought the
authors, they looked for the evil.

Yes, they gave him the name of the schlankweg evil. She said that: one
must be to the immense suffering, the cause immense misery, one
must act as God can not be, there must be an enemy of God and an
enemy of his creatures; enemy created everything, all blood, all
warmth, love, life and everything emergence.

They called him the evil, and they sought him. * * * * * One night she
was dressed on the sofa in the chamber, which is solely to inhabit
the only comfort was that they verstattete. It was dark, she could not
sleep and she stared into the air. For a marvelous table sat five
or six young women.

They were in the company toilet, exposes deep, laughed and drank champagne
out with their jokes, puns frivolous and seductive gestures they turned
to one that is at the upper end of the table sat. But had no figure,
he was like a lump, like a piece of clay.

But the servant trembled when they came into his vicinity, and the women
were under the pale makeup, if he watches it. Befrackter A man with
long hair artists played piano, sometimes accused him of Gestaltlose
over a gold piece, which he cleverly auffing without his game to
break. blendendweißen middle of the table stood, unnoticed by all,
a corpse.

Her body was entirely with fruit and candy overcast, and stood out from
the chest, between peaches and grapes, which handles three knives out.
Through the joints of the table and dripped blood ran in silent shock
on the floor.

The meal was at an end, all were in wanton mood, as did the Gestaltlose
and called one of the women to dance on. The person in question was
almost a miracle of beauty, beaming youth and passion, she was wearing a
tight gown of silver flakes, the slender figure led to the highest
coverage. In their free dance was the grace of conscious art, and as
they head zurückbog smiled and enchanted, the other women smiled
and clapped their hands. While the piano player in a faster rhythm
transferred, it was as if the dancing dumpling stretch and grow,
he got a skull from the skull looked eyes, those eyes and said: I
desire, I desire.

These eyes were iridescent Gallert by such a desire fulfilled, that the
spectators suddenly fell silent and a leaden pressure put on them. The
dancer, but was visibly paler, she looked from the grip of the dumpling
to liberate. He however grew spindle thin arms, with whom he still
violent in itself pressed, always solid, so solid, that they began
to röcheln that her face was blue, that her body in the middle first,
and when it finally entseelt in the was poor, it looked as if
nothing's left more than the dress. your colleagues jumped on
screaming, wanted to flee, gripped each other, because, the person
with the three knives in the chest was buried under the fruit, the
head in the height and said with eyes closed, making his speech was
doubly scary: Give it to me again!

In the magnificent space, which seemed to expand, now at once poured a
lot of people, farmers, factory workers, soldiers, officers, poorly dressed
women, young girls. One of them, an old man with white beard, pressed
forward and said to the dumpling, which is now beginning a human shape:
Give me my daughter back!

Several who stood behind him, also cried, almost beside himself: Give our
daughters back! Our brides!

Our sisters, but as a monotonous murmur audibly, which were agitated
and were averse to a group of farmers, while the humble and looked
distressed, they are bent to the ground and cried out: Give us our
land, give us our forests!

Intermediate gellten the voices of women, our sons, let us, you murderer,
our sons! The dumpling important step into the void, but always got
more shape.

He was quite brown, face, hands and body, and it was as if he
were covered with rust, or encrusted with mud. The trains are not awakened
the slightest idea of its nature, they had somewhat blurred, Mummy
Matters. With his extremely long arms, he waved the servants, which
now brought sacks full of gold and precious stones and poured its
contents onto the floor.

It was a uneasy silence until the old man vortrat, on the Treasure
outstretched pointed and harsh in tone, said: For our daughters? That
for our sons?

For our heart and soul that you are forever wicked? And all voices cried
out in despair: Our brothers! Our sons! Our country! You forever wicked!
Olivia had their eyes open and saw and heard everything as real
as if they are sitting in the theater. * * * * * Where am I, where
was I?

they are constantly asked, where should I go, where you can still live,
where it is possible to smile, where is happiness, as happiness can ever
arise again? you wish to convert them. When it remotely through the
glass wall of the greenhouses, flowers saw erbleichte them in ghostly
longing for a life of flowers. So in the soil to roots, deep and deep,
unconscious hinzudämmern with delicate fibers bound to nature!

That one flower may be, somehow, someday, a dream and was happy idea
for them. It appeared to her as a final price and a last asylum. She
received the news that her brother in an assault in the far east
had fallen.

Stumm and not capable of consolation she sat at home in front of the
fossilized mother. After a while Robert Lamm came and sat down to
them.

"You need to have children to raise them," said the unhappy mother
with eyes without tears, "twenty years he was old.

"Lamb nodded.

When you go away he said to Olivia: "To Pentecost around werd 'perhaps
I sit alone with her.

It should provide you with knitting on a bed bound. "A few days later in
the evening she went into his chamber. »Check your order after the
mother," she asked, "I can not leave my place."

"Yes, you're important," he agreed with her full of scorn for, "or at
least you believe it to be. But I do not fit on the half-lamenting
their dead to help. "" So why you suck? "She could not ask to be included,
and their views flared. "You were yourself and others long enough
to have been good, the bad weather to make.

But we have so much of the variety in our country that the sun even with
disgust of us away. There is no glory to be here. "He laughed oddly. "If
you opponent to understand spatial 'I give you the freedom to insult me,"
he said, and left, almost like a slave, arms and shoulders are,
"just not this cloud-like aloofness, that languish in the overlay
pain.

I am crazy when I watch it. Too soft, my expensive, too soft! Your relaxes
your foundation and our souls with such waste.

"Olivia looked at him, half-regretful, half-amazed. "You're very lonely,"
she said.

"I will indeed visit your mother," he drew from, unpleasant touched by her
tone and her look of cool, "but it has nothing from me.

I am mourning her only way. I'm finally all the way, including myself ""
You're very lonely, "repeated Olivia, and her face was suddenly an
expression of sympathy, which made him shudder." Well, "he stuttered,"
what next? "" Loneliness is a deadly sin, Robert.

"They took a step closer against him and said," Loneliness is _Deine_
mortal sin. "" So they take me away, "he tried to joke darkly. »Convert
me, perhaps succeeds's, or else gets me one day to the devil. Seest thou
not, Olivia, what are you with me? You saw it not? "He broke off and
drilled the fists into the eye sockets. "Even blindness can be a deadly
sin," he muttered totally distraught, "exactly the same as solitude."

The fact that it this or a similar kind word entschlüpfen ever
could, he would have never thought possible.

Shame took hold of his, and he would prefer to deal with the face
mangled nails. He was old, dilapidated, worthless, without light,
without force, without dignity, and for the duration of some minutes,
his entire being umnachtet and convulsions.

When the hands of the eyes decreased, Olivia was gone from the room.

What mine, how shocked he did not hesitate perceived, so broke
everything in him. Now he was really old, really without value and dignity.
Because the man is at the end, what it the shape, which is his love. * *
* * * Loneliness mortal sin? How do I want to convert people, he said,
which is in my power, and with the song of life, I can buy absolution.

There came a rage about it, is common to make a desire for noise,
strife and confusion, a drive, to listen, to poke, to stir up.

He went into the coffee houses, in the meetings, to former colleagues,
spoke Known on the street and talked so long with them until they
were trusting.

He had an eye for the vultures dissatisfied, the conspirators who secretly
arsonists, the whiners and dark men in all categories.

He knew them so einzuspinnen that they misled the mask would fall. He
understood so as to pretend that he himself was disgusting. His treacherous
sympathy and friendship with the insurance confessions were confirmed
to him to do. He did those beautiful, whose corruption and Verrätertum
public secret was, he coaxed the defrauder clapped and applauded the
false prophets. He calculated with the talkativeness of the Estonians
in Schlau hangover after an orgy left, with the cynicism of the
sort of Tartüff in anticipation of the great disaster of the day
presented, with the bitterness of aufgehäuften humiliated and reset,
with the pressure of the loads on all shoulders, with the natural
joy of the people to evil, death and destruction. selbstquälerischer
But his haßerfüllter and going to the people took an unexpected turn.

The opponent came before him, while the players employed by him;
surrounded by shadows, the shadows in a language spoke, he saw through
them, among them, behind them figures. Hingekauert in a rotten and
entlaubten tree, he heard the eternal song of the root. He felt
the force, felt the movement, felt the pangs of rebirth among
ghosts, he felt his country, he felt his people.

If he is in front of the bakery shops, the women are looked pale, patiently
waiting, that the bread will be distributed when the projectiles with
cripple incomprehensible radiant, almost shoals entrepreneurial
eyes, the shackled to poles, einherhumpelten if poverty bashfully
avoided the donor and the losers in the misery neighborhoods victory
celebrations with faith-still celebrated, as he was aware of the
relationship, because he was part and inheritance, as he recognized
not only as he was alone, but also how they were to leave, as he
had left.

About the faces he looked, was a hidden light source sham. Did
not the invisible light from the lamp ago, with Olivia in the night by
the hall way?
In consequence of my being a friend of a friend of
  his, the captain invited me to spend several days on board.  During my
  stay I inhabited the captain's `fighting cabin,'--and this, by the
  way, reminds me that I was introduced to a young lieutenant on board,
  named Firebrand, who says he met you not long ago at Portsmouth, and
  mortally offended your mother by talking to her about the
  _Thunderer's_ crinoline!  The `fighting cabin' is so styled because it
  may be inhabited in safety while the ship is in action, being within
  the ship's tremendous armour plating.  In times of peace the captain
  occupies a large handsome cabin on the deck, which, although made of
  iron capable of resisting winds and waves, and beautifully furnished,
  is nevertheless liable to be swept bodily into the sea if hit by the
  giant shot of modern days.  A corresponding cabin on the port side of
  the ship constitutes the ward-room.  This also might be blown to
  atoms, with the officers and all their belongings, if a shell were to
  drop into it.  But the officers also have places of refuge below while
  in action.

  "A large proportion of what meets the eye above the water-line of this
  ironclad, and looks solid enough, is of this comparatively flimsy
  build; not meant to resist shot or shell; willing, as it were, to be
  blown away, if the enemy can manage it, though proof against
  rifle-bullets.  There is a huge central erection, styled the `flying'
  or `hurricane' deck, from which enormous davits project with several
  boats pendent therefrom.  Out of this flying structure rise the great
  iron mast--with a staircase inside leading to the `top'--and the two
  smoke-funnels of the engines.  In the heart of it rises `the fighting
  tower,' an armoured core, as it were, from which the captain and
  officers may survey the aspect of affairs while fighting, steer, and,
  by means of electricity, etcetera, work the monster guns of the ship.
  If all the flimsy work about the vessel were blown into the sea, her
  vitality would not be affected, though her aspect would indeed be
  mightily changed for the worse, but the _Thunderer_ in her entirety,
  with her low-armoured hull, her central fighting-tower, her
  invulnerable turrets with their two 35-ton and two 38-ton guns, and
  all her armament and men, would still be there, as able and ready for
  action as ever.

  "Very simply yet very tastefully arranged did the captain's fighting
  cabin seem to me as I lay down on its narrow but comfortable bed, the
  first night of my visit, and looked around me.  Besides a commodious
  little chest of drawers, there were on one wall telescopes, swords,
  and naval caps; on another a compact library.  Above my head,
  stretching diagonally across the bed, was an object which caused me no
  little surprise and much speculation.  In appearance it resembled a
  giant flute with finger holes that no man of mortal mould could have
  covered.  Not till next morning did I discover that this tube was part
  of a system of air-distributing pipes, supplied by fanners worked by
  steam, whereby fresh air is driven to every part of the vessel.

  "`So,' said I to myself, turning to the prettily-painted wall at my
  side, and giving it a slight tap, `the proverbial two-inch plank
  between me and death is here increased to somewhere about thirty
  inches.'

  "In this soliloquy I referred to the _Thunderer's_ armour-plates, of
  from ten to twelve inches thick, which are affixed to a timber backing
  of eighteen inches in two layers.  With such a backing of solid
  comfort between me and `death,' I felt soothed, and dropped asleep.

  "It was Saturday night.  On Sunday morning I was awakened by a rushing
  of water so furious that I fancied the sea must have proved more than
  a match for the 12-inch armour and 18-inch backing; but a moment or
  two of attentive reflection relieved me.  Your friend Firebrand's
  voice was audible.  I listened.  He muttered something, and yawned
  vociferously, then muttered again--`Splend--propns--a--yi--a--ou!'

  "`Splendid proportions!' he resumed again, after a pause, during which
  the rush of water became more alarming, sundry gasps and much hard
  breathing being mingled with it,--`Mag-nificent,' continued Firebrand
  in the low calm tone of a contemplative connoisseur; `couldn't have
  believed it if I hadn't seen it.  Quite Herculean!'

  "From all this I came gradually to understand that some of the
  officers were performing their morning ablutions with sponge and
  towel, while Firebrand was looking languidly over the edge of his
  hammock, indulging in a critical commentary.

  "Just then I was surprised to hear a muffled thunderous bang!  It was
  the big drum, and, next moment, the ship's band announced itself with
  a single bar, excellently played, of `God Save the Queen.'

  "Every Sunday, I found, was begun by a careful and minute inspection
  of the crew and ship.  After breakfast the captain, followed by all
  his chief officers, went through every hole and corner of the mighty
  iron fabric.  I followed in his wake.  At first the thought did not
  occur to me, but after all was over it struck me that this act was
  somewhat appropriate to the day.  The great _Thunderer_ had, as it
  were, gone into a condition of introspection.

  "It was a species of self-examination on the part of the great
  war-ship, through the medium of its mind--the captain.  Here was the
  father of a tremendously large family going the rounds on Sunday
  morning to observe whether his moral precepts and personal example
  during the week had been attended with appropriate results--to see
  that his `boys' were neat and clean, and ready for church, and that
  they had arranged their rooms before breakfast.

  "First of all, the men were mustered (by bugle) on the upper deck,--
  marines on one side, blue-jackets on the other.  Then we walked slowly
  along the front ranks and down the rear, with critical eyes.  I
  observed a crooked collar; the captain observed it too, and put it
  straight: I saw an ill-put-on belt; the captain also saw it, pointed
  and referred to it in an undertone.  A hole in a pair of trousers I
  did not observe, but the captain saw it, and commented on it in a
  somewhat severer manner.  Nothing was passed over.  Every brawny,
  powerful, broad-shouldered blue-jacket there was, in nautical
  phraseology, overhauled from stem to stern.  A comment here, a word of
  approval there, or a quiet reprimand, was all that passed, but, being
  uttered to the attentive ears of the responsible officers, this was
  sufficient.  After inspection, the men were dismissed, and the captain
  with his following descended to the interior of the ship.  It would
  take reams of paper, my dear Jeffry, to refer to all that was said and
  done.  I must give you but a brief outline.  We went along the sides
  of the vessel, where the arms were ranged, and any speck of rust or
  appearance of careless treatment of the polished and glittering
  weapons was noted, and the responsible officer called then and there
  to account.  So was it in every department.  The _Thunderer_ lies low,
  as I have said; much of her is below water, therefore light is scarce
  and valuable.  During our perambulation we came to some machinery and
  bulkheads, etcetera, which were dingy in colour.  `Paint them white,'
  said the captain to the officer of each department; `I don't point out
  details, but use as much white paint as you can.  It makes the ship
  look light and cheerful.'  Every order given was emphatic yet
  considerate; given to the officer in whose department the hitch
  occurred, and retailed by him to subordinates who knew well that they
  would come to grief if they did not make a note of it.  Many of the
  `departments' were so well managed that no fault at all could be
  found, and it was evident that the captain, in such cases, found a
  pleasure in `giving honour to whom honour was due.'

  "`Some men,' said Firebrand, who chanced to be close to me, and to
  whom I commented on the advantage of thorough obedience, `some men,
  however, carry this quality a little too far.  I knew of a man once,
  named Billy Ewart, who prided himself greatly on the care with which
  he fulfilled every part of his duty, so that it was impossible for the
  strictest disciplinarian to find fault with him.  He had charge of the
  main deck.  One day the Admiral inspected the ship, and took occasion
  to praise Billy Ewart for cleaning so well the main deck and
  everything connected with it.  "The only dirty things I see," he said,
  pointing to a hen-coop, "are the legs of your geese."  This was, of
  course, a joke, but it preyed on Billy's mind, and at next inspection
  he had the geese whitewashed and their legs and bills blackleaded.
  Poor Billy had no peace after that; even at the theatres, when he
  chanced to be observed there by his mates, one would call to another,
  "I say, Jack, who whitewashed the geese!"'

  "As Firebrand concluded, we had completed the inspection of the main
  deck, and descended to the lower deck, where the men lived and messed,
  and where a clean and trim blue-jacket--`cook of the mess' for the
  day--stood at the head of each table.  The tables and cans and tins
  and platters and men were required to be as clean and bright as a new
  pin.  Then on we went to the berth of the warrant-officers, and after
  that down still lower to the engine-room.  There the chief engineer
  came to the front and became responsible for the mighty cranks and
  gigantic cylinders and awe-inspiring beams, and complicated mazes of
  machinery, which raised him, in my mind, to little short of a
  demigod--for you must know that I, like yourself, am full of
  admiration and ignorance in regard to engineering forces.  Next we
  went to the lowest depths of all, among the boilers, which appeared to
  me like an avenue--a positive street, sir--in Pandemonium.  It was
  here that the tremendous explosion occurred in July 1876, when upwards
  of forty men were killed and many wounded, the captain himself (who
  was in the engine-room at the time) having narrowly escaped
  suffocation.  Thereafter, the magazines of shot and shell were
  visited, and, in short, every hole and corner of the ship, and thus in
  an hour or so it was ascertained that the Nelsonian demand, and
  England's expectation, had been fulfilled,--`every man' had done `his
  duty,' and the great ironclad was pronounced to be in a healthy,
  Sabbatic state of mind and body.

  "In this satisfactory frame we finally went to the fore part of the
  ship, where we found the crew assembled, and where, standing at the
  capstan, the captain read the Church of England service, the responses
  being effectively rendered by the stalwart crew.  In regard to this
  service I will only remark that I observed the introduction of a
  prayer which was entirely new to me, namely, that for the blessing of
  God on the ship, its crew, its duties, and its destination, to which I
  could and did, with all heartiness, respond `Amen,' because as long as
  God's blessing rests on the _Thunderer_ she will not be sent out to do
  battle in an unrighteous cause.

  "Next morning I had an opportunity of witnessing the big-gun turret
  drill.

  "It was an imposing spectacle, a fine display of the power of mind
  over matter.  Force, might, weight, appeared to have attained their
  culminating exemplification here, and yet the captain said to me that
  his 35-ton and 38-ton guns are mere pistols to the things which are
  being prepared for vessels of our navy yet to come.

  "My dear fellow, do you know what a 38-ton gun means?  Have you ever
  seen one?  Can you appreciate the fact that its weight is equal to
  thirty-eight carts of coals?  Did you ever see the powder with which
  it is fed?  One grain of it was given to me as a great favour, by the
  chief gunner's mate--I think that is his correct title, but am not
  quite sure.  He presented it in a cardboard box.  I now send you its
  portrait."

  [_Facsimile of a grain of powder for the 38-ton guns of the
  Thunderer--actual size_.]

  "Here it is, as large as life--really so, without a touch of
  exaggeration.  I have measured it carefully with a tape foot-rule, and
  I find the dimensions to be five inches and a quarter in
  circumference.

  "It is a solid cube of gunpowder.  The cartridge which holds this
  powder is a pillow, an absolute bolster, of some three feet in length
  and twelve inches in diameter.  It had need be, for the shell which it
  is meant to propel is the size of a small boy and the weight of an
  average ox, namely 814 lbs.  The length of each 38-ton gun is nineteen
  feet, and its range about 6000 yards.  Just try to imagine an ox being
  propelled through space, between three and four miles, at a rate which
  I don't recollect, and which doesn't signify.  Try also to remember
  that each gun costs between 2000 pounds and 3000 pounds, and that,
  every time a turret lets fly a shot from one of her guns, the expense
  is 12 pounds, 10 shillings.  The 80-ton guns which are to supersede
  these will, it is said, cost upwards of 10,000 pounds each.  This will
  enable you to form some idea of England's `greatness.'

  "The drill and working of these guns is magnificent.  Nearly
  everything in the fore-turret is worked by steam and hydraulic power,
  so that comparatively few men are required to move the iron monsters.
  Let me ask you to imagine the men at their stations.  Some are inside
  the turret, and as guns and turret move in concert the men inside move
  with them.  Those outside the turret stand at its base, and are
  therefore below the iron deck and protected by the iron sides of the
  ship.  The insiders revolve, aim, and fire the gun; the outsiders
  load.  The first lieutenant, standing at the base of the tower, close
  to the hole by which it is entered, so that he may be heard by both
  out and insiders, shouts, `Close up,' in the voice of a Stentor.  At
  this some men grasp levers, others stand by wheels which let on
  respectively hydraulic power and steam.  The captain of the tower,
  seated on an elevated position, puts his head through a man-hole in
  the roof of the turret, which hole is covered with a bullet-proof iron
  hood, having a narrow opening in front.  He surveys the supposed
  enemy, and his duty is to revolve the tower, take aim, and let go the
  firing machinery, i.e. pull the trigger.  The outsiders stand by the
  locking bolt, levers, shot-racks, etcetera.  Then, in the attitude of
  ready-for-action, all become motionless attentive statues--a regular
  _tableau-vivant_.

  "Stentor again shouts, `Cast loose.'  To my ignorant eye energetic
  confusion ensues.  The captain of the turret is causing it to revolve
  this way and that, with its crew and guns, by a mere touch of his
  finger.  Lever and wheel-men do their duty; the guns are run in (or
  out when required) with the ease of pop-guns, till certain marks on
  carriages and slides correspond; then they are laid, firing-gear is
  cleared and made ready, while the outsiders take out the tompion, open
  the port and scuttle of the gun about to be loaded, bring forward a
  bolster of powder (or a representative mass of wood), and place a
  giant shot on a `trolly,' which is just a little railway-carriage to
  convey the shot on rails from its rack to the gun.  Meanwhile the
  captain of the turret gives the order, `Starboard (or port) loading
  position,' turns the turret until the gun is opposite its
  `loading-hole,' and then depresses its muzzle to the same point, jams
  it against the hole, and the turret is `locked.'

  "`Sponge and load,' is now given--but not by Stentor.  The forces at
  work are too great in some cases to be left to the uncertain human
  voice.  A piece of mechanism, called a `tell-tale,' communicates with
  infallible certainty that the monster is quite ready to feed!  A
  hydraulic ramrod thereupon wets his whistle with a sponge, on the end
  of which is a small reservoir of water.  The monster is temperate.
  This withdrawn, a wad is placed on the end of the ramrod.  Three men
  shove a bolster of powder into the gun's mouth.  The huge shot is then
  hydraulically lifted to the muzzle.  No mortal man could move that
  shot a hair's-breadth in the right direction, but the hydraulic ram is
  brought to bear, and shoves the delicious _morceau_ not _down_ but
  _up_ his throat with an ease that would be absurd if it were not
  tremendous.  The tell-tale now intimates to the insiders, `Gun
  loaded.'  The captain of the turret gives the order, `Run out.'
  Hydraulic at work again.  In a few seconds the gun muzzle is raised,
  and projects through its port-hole.  When the object and distance are
  named, the captain of the turret takes aim, and then follows, in more
  or less rapid succession, `Elevate,' `Depress,' `Extreme elevation,'
  or the reverse, `Ready!'--`Fire!' when the _Thunderer_ is shaken to
  her centre, and twelve pounds ten shillings sterling go groaning
  uselessly into the deep, or crashing terrifically through the
  armour-plates of an unfortunate enemy.

  "My dear fellow, this gives you but a faint outline of it, but time
  and paper would fail me if I were to tell in detail of the mode by
  which all this can be done by the captain of the _Thunderer_ himself,
  by means of speaking-tubes and electricity and a `director,' so that
  he can, while standing in the fighting tower, aim, point, and fire, as
  if with his own hand, guns which he cannot see, and which are forty
  feet or so distant from him.  Would that I could relate to you a tithe
  of what I have seen!--the day, for instance, when the blue-jackets, to
  the number of one hundred and fifty, had a field-day on shore, and
  went through infantry drill--skirmishing and all--as well, to my
  unpractised eye, as if they had been regular `boiled lobsters,' to say
  nothing of their manoeuvres with the Gatling gun.  This latter weapon,
  perhaps you don't know, is simply a bundle of gigantic muskets which
  load and fire themselves by the mere turning of a handle--a martial
  barrel-organ, in short, which sends a continuous shower of balls in
  the face of an advancing or on the back of a retreating foe.  The
  greater involves the less.  No one can deny that, and it is my opinion
  that in the British navy the sailor now includes the soldier.  He is,
  as it were, a bluejacket and a boiled lobster rolled into one
  tremendous sausage--a sausage so tough that would be uncommonly
  difficult for any one, in Yankee phrase, to `chaw him up.'

  "Then there is the Whitehead torpedo.

  "`A thing of beauty,' says the poet, `is a joy for ever.'  The poet
  who said it was an--no, I won't go that length, but it is clear that
  he had not seen a Whitehead torpedo.  That delicate instrument is
  indeed a thing of beauty, for it is elegantly formed of polished
  steel, but when it happens to stick its head into a ship's stern, it
  is not a `joy' even for a moment, and it effectually stops, for ever,
  all consideration of its qualities by those who chance to feel them.
  It is shaped like a fish, and has a tail.  Its motive power is in its
  tail, which is a screw propeller.  It has lungs, consisting of a tank
  for holding compressed air.  It has a stomach, composed of a pair of
  pneumatic engines which drive it through the water.  Its body is
  fourteen feet long, more or less.  Its head contains an explosive
  charge of 110 pounds of wet gun-cotton, with a dry disc of the same in
  its heart.  It goes off by concussion, and could sink our largest
  ironclad--there is no doubt whatever about that.  Its cost is between
  four and five hundred pounds sterling.  One of the peculiarities of
  this celebrated torpedo is, that it can be regulated so as to travel
  at a given depth below water.  This is not so much to conceal its
  course, which is more or less revealed by the air-bubbles of its
  atmospheric engine, as to cause it to hit the enemy ten or twelve feet
  below her waterline.  What the effect of this new war-monster shall be
  is at present in the womb of futurity.  I hope sincerely that the
  world may suffer no greater loss from it than its cost.

  "By the way, I must not forget to tell you that I have grown at least
  an inch since I saw you last, in consequence of having been mistaken
  for the captain of the _Thunderer_!  That the mistake was made by a
  pretty, innocent, sweet, ignorant young girl, with intensely blue
  eyes, does not abate my vanity one jot.  That such a mistake should be
  made by _anybody_ was complimentary.  It happened thus:--I was seated
  alone in the captain's cabin, writing for the _Evergreen Isle_, when a
  party of ladies and gentlemen passed the door and looked in.  They
  were being shown over the ship.  `That,' said the blue-jacket who
  conducted them, `is the captain's cabin.'  `And is that,' whispered
  blue-eyes, in the sweetest of voices, `the captain?'  My heart
  stopped!  U. Biquitous the captain of the _Thunderer_!  I felt
  indignant when blue-jacket replied, with a contemptuous growl--`No,
  miss, 'taint.'  They passed on, but I could not rest.  I rose and
  followed blue-eyes about the ship like a loving dog, at a respectful
  distance.  I tried to find out her name, but failed--her address, but
  failed again.  Then they left, and she vanished from my sight--for
  ever.

  "But enough of this.  Adieu, my dear Jeffry, till we meet.--Yours
  affectionately, U.B.

  "P.S.--I mentioned you to the captain as a friend of mine, and an
  enthusiastic torpedoist.  Be sure you call on him if you should ever
  find yourself in the neighbourhood of the mighty _Thunderer_."


CHAPTER NINETEEN.

DESCRIBES A STIRRING FIGHT.

It was late when I folded this letter, about the surprising effects of
which I have yet to speak.

Having been very much overwrought in the hospitals that day, I flung
myself on my bed and fell into a sound sleep, having previously
cautioned my assistant, who occupied a couch opposite mine, not to
disturb me except in a case of necessity.

It could not have been long afterwards when I was awakened by him
violently, and told that a telegram had just arrived summoning me home!
I sprang up and read it anxiously.  There was no explanation.  The
telegram was simple but urgent.  My mother, my sister, Nicholas,
illness, death, disaster of some sort, filled my mind as I huddled on my
clothes and made hurried preparations to obey the summons.  Of course no
inquiries could be made.  The telegram was peremptory.  I crushed a few
things into a portmanteau, and, obtaining permission, left the hospital
without a moment's delay.

The distance to the coast was considerable, but I had ample means, and
found no difficulties in the way.  It is always so in this life--at
least in regard to ordinary things--when one possesses unlimited means.

Now I must pause at this point, and beg the reader to bear with me while
I relate a few things that may appear at first sight overdrawn.  Let
judgment be suspended until all has been told.

There was no difficulty whatever, I repeat, in reaching Varna.  From
thence to Constantinople was merely a matter of a few hours' in an
ordinary steamer.  My personal acquaintance with several European
ambassadors enabled me to pass the lines and travel in the enemy's
country without obstruction or delay.  My position as occasional
war-correspondent of the _Scottish Bawbee_ would have procured me
interviews with many celebrities, but anxiety prevented my taking
advantage of this.

In process of time I arrived at Besika Bay, and here I found the British
fleet at anchor.  Of course I had been aware of its presence there, and
felt some pleasure in contemplating a visit to some of the ships, in
several of which I had friends.  It was with great surprise that I found
the _Thunderer_ among the war-ships assembled in the Bay.  I had never
heard of her having left England, though I had been told that her
sister-ship the _Devastation_ was at Besika.

Remembering the injunction of my friend Biquitous, I went on board the
_Thunderer_, and was hospitably received by the captain.  He had only
time, however, to shake hands and beg me to make myself at home.  There
was obviously something of importance about to happen, for great
activity prevailed among officers and men.  It seemed to my untutored
eye as if they were getting up steam and preparing for some sort of
expedition.  The captain did not invite me to accompany them;
nevertheless I went.  It was not long before the object of the
expedition was revealed.  A monster Russian ironclad, it was said, lay
somewhere "outside."  We were sent to observe her.  In the evening we
sighted her.  There was another Russian war-ship--a frigate--close to
her.  The ironclad was similar to ourselves: a long low hull--a couple
of turrets with a central "flying" structure or "hurricane-deck."  We
made straight towards her.  The bugle sounded and the crew was called to
quarters.

"My dear sir," said I to the captain, "has war been declared between
England and Russia?"

The captain made no reply.  On repeating the question anxiously he
merely said--

"Never mind!"

I was surprised, almost hurt, and greatly perplexed, for the captain was
noted for politeness and urbanity, but of course I retired at once.

Next moment I saw a puff of smoke burst from the side of the Russian
ironclad, and a shot leaped towards us.  Its size was such that we could
trace it from the muzzle of the gun.  Describing, as I thought (for
strange is the power of thought), a rather high trajectory, it passed
over us and plunged into the sea with a swish that sent hundreds of tons
of water like an inverted cascade into the air.  A gush of indignation
filled my breast.  That the warship of a nation with which we were at
peace should fire at us without provocation was more than I could
endure.

"Are you going to stand _that_, captain?"  I asked, with an
uncontrollable gush of indignation at the Russian's audacity.

The captain gave one sardonic laugh, and a shrug of his shoulders, but
vouchsafed no reply.

Hearing one of the officers give some order about Whitehead torpedoes, I
ran to the room where these monsters were kept.  I was just in time to
see one lifted on to a species of carriage and wheeled to the side of
the ship.  Here a powerful air-pump was set to work, and the torpedo's
lungs were filled almost to the bursting point.  Its deadly head--
brought from the magazine--was at the same time attached to its body.
Another instant and a port was thrown open in the _Thunderer's_ side,
through which the Whitehead was launched.  It went with a sluggish
plunge into the sea.  While it was in the act of passing out a trigger
was touched which set the pneumatic engines agoing.  The
screw-propelling tail twirled, and the monster, descending ten feet
below the surface, sped on its mission.  I rushed on deck.  The
air-bubbles showed me that the engine of destruction had been aimed at
the Russian frigate.  In a few seconds it had closed with it.  I could
see that there was terrible consternation on board.  Next moment a
fountain of foam shot from the deep and partially obscured the frigate.
I saw men leaping overboard and spars falling for a few moments, then
the frigate lurched heavily to port and went head foremost to the
bottom.

I stood gazing in a species of horrified abstraction, from which I was
recalled by some of our men running to the side of the vessel.  They
were about to lower the steam-launch.  It was to be sent out as a
torpedo-boat, and young Firebrand, whom I now observed for the first
time, took command.

Just then a torpedo-boat was seen to quit the side of the Russian.  We
were ready for her.  Our largest Gatling gun had been hoisted to that
platform on our mast which is styled the "top."

When within range this weapon commenced firing.  It was absolutely
horrible.  One man turned a handle at the breech, another kept supplying
the self-acting cartridge-box.  As the handle was turned the cartridges
dropped into their places and exploded.  Six or nine tubes, I forget
which, were thus made to rain bullets without intermission.  They fell
on the screen of the advancing torpedo-boat like hail, but quite
harmlessly.  Then I heard a voice within the fore-turret give a command
which sounded like "Extreme depression."  It was quickly followed by
"Fire!" and the _Thunderer_ quivered from keel to truck under the mighty
explosion.  The great 38-ton gun had been splendidly served, for the
monster ball hit the boat amidships and crushed the bow under water, at
the same instant the stern leaped into the air, and she went down with a
dive like a Greenland whale.

Hearty cheers burst from the men in the "top."  These were echoed with a
muffled sound from the men shut up in the armoured hull below--for it
must be remembered that not a soul had been visible all this time on the
_Thunderer_ except the men in the "top" and those who had been sent to
lower the steam-launch.

Apparently rendered savage by this event, the Russians let fly a volley
from their four great-guns, but without serious result.  They had been
admirably pointed, however, for the two outer shots hit our turrets,
deeply indented them, and glanced off, while the inner shots went slap
through the flying structure as if it had been made of pasteboard,
leaving clean-cut holes, which, of course, only made the place more
airy.

Night had now fallen.  The danger of attack by torpedo-boats having been
recognised, both ironclads had let down their crinolines.  But the
captain of the _Thunderer_ had resolved on a--a--what shall I call it?--
a "dodge," which would probably deceive the enemy.  He had an electric
light on board.  Every one knows nowadays that this is an intense light,
which, being thrown on a given point, illuminates it with a glare equal,
almost, to that of day.  After dark the captain shot this light from his
mast-head straight at the enemy, and in the full glare of it our
steam-launch or torpedo-boat was sent out!

I was amazed beyond measure.  Forgetting myself for a moment, I
exclaimed, "Captain, you are mad!"

As might have been expected, the captain made no reply.

The steam-launch carried two torpedoes, each containing 100 pounds of
powder.

"Be careful to sheer off quickly after exploding," said the captain to
Firebrand quietly.

Firebrand replied, "Yes, sir," respectfully, but I heard him distinctly
add, in a low tone, to himself, "I'll run slap into her and blow her to
atoms as well as myself.  _Somebody_ must fail in every action.  It's a
forlorn hope at sea, that's all.--Full steam!" he added aloud to the
engineer.

As the boat rushed away in the blaze of the electric light, the
captain's _ruse_ suddenly dawned on my mind.  The Russian at once saw
the boat, and, with naturally nervous haste, knowing the terrible nature
of such boats, made preparations to thwart her.  Close in the wake of
the boat the _Thunderer_ followed with the intent to run the Russian
down with her ram, which is a tremendous iron beak projecting, below
water, from her bow.  The "dodge" was to dazzle the enemy with the
electric light, and, while her attention was concentrated on the
torpedo-boat, to "ram" her!

"Steady!" said Firebrand, in a deep voice.

Something else was replied by somebody in a deeper voice.

The boat ploughed on its way like a furious hornet.

"Fire!" shouted the Russians.

Instantly, from turret, bulwark, and mast-head leaped livid flames of
fire, and the sea was torn up by bullets, while fearful spouts were here
and there raised by shots from the heavy guns.  Everything was
concentrated on the torpedo-boat.  It was obvious that the dazzling
light at the mast-head of the _Thunderer_ had blinded her adversary as
to her own movements.

"Let drive!"

I heard the order of the Russian captain as distinctly as if I had been
on board his own ship, and was somewhat surprised at its being given in
slang English.

The result was a rain of musketry, which rattled on the iron armour of
the launch's protecting screen as the sticks rattle on a kettle-drum.

"Ready!" said Firebrand, with suppressed intensity.

As the boat drew near the Russian small shot was tearing up the sea like
a wintry storm.  The order having been given, the torpedo-spars were
lowered, so that each torpedo sank ten feet under water.

"Fire!" yelled Firebrand.

Electricity was applied, both torpedoes exploded, and the launch sheered
off gallantly in cataracts of foam.

At the same moment the Russians observed us not ten yards distant,
coming stem on at full speed.  Her turret guns were concentrated and
fired; so were ours.  The crash was indescribably hideous, yet it was as
nothing compared with that which followed a few seconds later.  Our ram,
entering the Russian fairly amidships, cut her almost in two.  We backed
out instantly, intending to repeat the operation.  Well was it for us
that we did so.  We had just backed a few hundred yards astern, and
given the order to go ahead full steam, when the Russian's magazine
exploded.  Our charge had somehow fired it.  Instantly there was a
crashing roar as if heaven and earth had met in chaotic conflict.  The
air was darkened with bursting clouds of blackest smoke, in the midst of
which beams, guns, pistons, boilers, armour-plates, human limbs and
heads were seen hurling about like the debris of a wrecked universe.
Much of this came down upon our iron deck.  The clatter was appalling.
It was a supreme moment!  I was standing on the flying structure beside
one of the officers.  "Glorious!" he muttered, while a pleasant smile
played upon his lips.  Just then I chanced to look up, and saw one of
the Russian fore-turret 85-ton guns falling towards me.  It knocked me
off the flying structure, and I fell with an agonising yell on the deck
below.

"Hallo!" exclaimed a familiar voice, as a man stooped to raise me.

I looked up.  It was my hospital-assistant.  I had fallen out of bed!

"You seem to have had a night of it, sir--cheering and shouting to such
an extent that I thought of awaking you once or twice, but refrained
because of your strict orders to the contrary.  Not hurt, I hope?"

"So, then," I said, with a sigh of intense relief, as I proceeded to
dress, "the whole affair has been--A DREAM!"

"Ah!" thought I, on passing through the hospital for the last time
before quitting it, and gazing sadly on the ghastly rows of sick and
wounded, "well were it for this unfortunate world if war and all its
horrors were but the phantasmagoria of a similar dream."


CHAPTER TWENTY.

TREATS OF WAR AND SOME OF ITS "GLORIOUS" RESULTS.

In process of time I reached the front, and chanced to arrive on the
field of action at a somewhat critical moment.

Many skirmishes, and some of the more important actions of the war, had
been fought by that time--as I already knew too well from the hosts of
wounded men who had passed through my hands at Sistova; and now it was
my fate to witness another phase of the dreadful "game."

Everywhere as I traversed the land there was evidence of fierce combats
and of wanton destruction of property; burning villages, fields of
produce trodden in the earth, etcetera.  Still further on I encountered
long trains of wagons bearing supplies and ammunition to the front.  As
we advanced these were met by bullock-trains bearing wounded men to the
rear.  The weather had been bad.  The road was almost knee-deep in mud
and so cut up by traffic that pools occurred here and there, into which
wagons and horses and bullocks stumbled and were got out with the
greatest difficulty.  The furious lashing of exhausted and struggling
cattle was mingled with the curses and cries of brutal drivers, and the
heartrending groans of wounded soldiers, who, lying, in many cases with
undressed wounds, on the hard, springless, and jolting vehicles,
suffered excruciating agony.  The nose can give you a drehn, As you
take in eight. Rosa. A Bäck, which is too solid, I'm afraid that I
härm. Valentin. So take a coppersmith, The smite a right noise. Rosa.
With a cutter, in fact, it's glorious I draus Valentin. But if he has
no customers, Sun is the twine him. Rosa.

A safer Klampfrer is a man, the missing never to plate. Valentin. I
advise you to a cobbler halt Wegner It is bad luck. Rosa. A Hutrer would
probably not be risked, The has a safer asset. Valentin. Yes if the
world loses its head, since humans do not need a hat. Rosa. A speculator,
oh what glory - hätt But I hardly dare. Valentin. Ah, if he makes smart
Krida, Da gehts him only fairly well. Rosa. In short, I wend forgiveness
in a circle around my eye. So I have to return to the carpenter, He
is my only happiness. Valentin. You rely on the young carpenter, makes
the grief And you do not get lucky once a jump, the carpenters glued
together. Both. A beautiful venue is yet to Ehr A man wackrer
craft. Seis tailor, shoemaker, seis hairdresser, I offer the glass to
him. (Both from.) Seventh appearance helmet, in hunting dress, steps out
of his Cabinet. Wolf from Wells Flott rooms. Helmet. Now, how is Mr.
valet, soon gehts los? Wolf (very busy). Yep, the same gnädge Lord
will appear. (Runs to the window.) Heda, hunters, let's hear you!
Pagenberg, the horses! Rifle Tensioners quickly up! (One hears
hunting horns.) Helmet. Holla, holla, hurtig, gentlemen! comes out,
goes to the dance. (Several guests come to the middle part, and partly
out of the side doors, also Pralling. Valentin. jagdmäßig All are
dressed.) Pralling. Good morning everyone! All (other). Good morning!
Did you sleep well? Helmet. Potz gosh, it was a bad night! Pralling.
My sleep is like a dissolute servant, if I call him, he is not. Helmet.
He is a free man, and comes only when he wants. Walter. A coquette is he
who adorns before they embraced us. Previous Eighth appearance. Chevalier
Dumont hunting in an elegant suit. Dumont (looks through a simple lorgnette).
Ah bon jour, mes amis! (He speaks broken German.) Geschlafen How Did
You All. Ah, our natural friend! Dumont. Yes, Messieurs, nature's
great. Ick aben geschwelgt again in her charms. The whole night I ick
at the window located to the area to be considered. O charming! Previous
ninth appearance. Flottwell. Socket. Flottwell. Good morning, noble
friends! All. Good morning! (Some shake his hand.) Flottwell. We arrive
late for hunting. I hope that the gentlemen, tonight for the first
time in my castle rested, with the operation were so happy, as always
eager ichs only wish for. Would have it, I sleep with sweet dreams
also entertained, but unfortunately not stand in my pay. A guest. I
have dreamed of lilies. Helmet. And to me by a wild sow, which
I've given the Fang. Walter. I have the hospitality at a golden table
saw and German laurel has adorned her head. Pralling. I have all my
luck on the Coeur-Dame, and when I had lost it, I woke up. Flottwell.
And what did you dream, friend Valentine? Valentin. I have dreamed that
your grace had me four ducats a gift. Flottwell (laughing). This is a
eigennützger dream, but I want to meet him. Valentin. I Küss graces
your hand. Flottwell. What I dreamed of, can I have not yet discovered.
It was a sweet dream, ready to service my highest desire, he gave
me my life reflected a rosy future. Helmet. You certainly have dreamed
of a rendezvous. Spitzbub! What? From eyes like ruby and such stupid
Zeuch. Flottwell (laughing). You may have guessed something, heart
brother. It is a rendezvous for the whole life. But still like this,
my heart is wanton tonight, it could reveal. Pralling. We already
know your tricks, you have other hunting in mind than we do.

Flottwell. So it is. Jagt your friends to see me you do not need to
worry about. We have a passion for each other. Pralling. I suffer
from the gout. Helmet. I am a passionate hunter. Walter. I'm talking
about the champagne. Dumont. And ick bewundre nature. Helmet. That takes
me wonder Chevalier. They are so shortsighted. Dumont. These are all
human. Pralling. And if you drive, you sleep in the car. Dumont.
O, the Macken nothing. A true nature lover have her beauty even
in your sleep can admire.

Helmet. I can not. My favorite is the hunt. Flottwell. Heda!
Bordeaux takes us. The gentlemen will be amazed. Dumont. Mackt me the
windows on that ick can view the landscape. (Looks through
the glass.) Wolf. Here is Bordeaux! (He ordered the servants who were
already prepared and filled him in on stem glasses silver cups
present.)

Walter (calls). Wonderful Wine! Dumont (delightedly calling out the window).
Heavenly waterfall!

Flottwell (swings the glass). On ewge friendship and long life, my
gentlemen, all. The rich Flottwell live long! Dumont (as before, without
a glass to have taken). Ha!

the churchyard there Macken good. Flottwell. Oh, would I have rich!
I only wish it to be my treasures with the world to share.

What is the mammon too! the money is far too much attention. Drum ists
so proud.

There will never be the poor man's pocket and streams remain always only
the rich again. Helm (enthusiasmiert). Who is as good as our noble Flottwell
here? Walter.

I know of no mind to his equals. All. Yep! Dumont. Un enfant de la
nature gate. Flottwell. Oh, do not praise me too much. I have no merit
as my father's gold. Will the world verzeihn me, ists well and good,
and does not Sies, like themselves with their envy resign.

I fight not with him. My happiness is bold, it calls me out, so I want my
life großartig enjoy and want to visit me worry, let me deny.

Badlands philosophers I think not. Not true, friend helmet, you must
save the lives of the beautiful page sum? The sky is its magnificent
icon. The glühnde hot sun like the fire of love, the moon mildgesinnte
of intimate friendship, the rich seed of the stars is a picture of the
millions of joys in the life germinate. The clouds are indeed serious
kummer full days, but is a flüchtger Frohsinn wind, which they chased.
Plinth. A god man! A true god man! Understood! Flottwell. Give a glass
but also our brave builders. Oh, that's even a man wichtger here,
gentlemen, will lock us a new build, and these halls of time we are
no longer denied. Wells House solls Flott called, nor a glass to honor
this man's work! (At its base, harsh.) Drink! Socket (appalled that he
lets fall the glass).

Understood! All (swinging the glasses). Flott Wells House! Lang solls
bestehn! Flottwell (crashes into a glass). And now for the hunt, your
gentlemen yard the glasses back and take 's gun hand! The forest is
your property and all of my game. But do not rush me too much, I can
not suffer, because the deer is crying like a man when he is
tortured to death.

And since I saw this spectacle, I lost the Jägergrausamkeit. Now luck
hunting! The evening brings us together again here, then we want
to discuss the full glass, who edlern a victory is to rejoice? Her! or
I! All. Holla to hunt! (Everything from.) (Horns drown.) Dumont (still
abides by the window until all the others out the door, then he
calls) Heavenly nature!

(and follows after the other). Zehnter appearance Then rushing music
transformation into a golden Feenhalle, backwards in the prospect
of a lovely mountain area.

In the middle of the hall a big round mirror magic, before him a
golden altar with a victim of shell on stage.

Cheristane in a light blue robe wrapped rough, which is adorned with
magical characters, and the head with a golden crown decorated, comes
from the side, a golden book and a wand-bearing. Cheristane. The
fight is made, I was defeated. Adopted ists, I distinguished from the
Earth. Even if my heart is subject to the grief, I suffer just that he
would be rescued.

(It is of Pinking the middle of its crown a blue pearl.) Come on, expensive
pearl, which surrounds the spirit, the last of bends before my power,
the earliest for him in idle nothing dissolves, I opfre you this
golden shaft.

(It raises the pearl in the golden bowl.

A blue flame ignited in her, the thunder rolls. Short music. The mirror
covers with smoke.)

Now show thy head, surrounded by magic illusion, And look at me with
Holden Demantaugen! Erscheinung! It should be Azur thy name! Let me hope
from your words suck! (Musik. - terrible thunder. The smoke rises and
the mirror appears Azur in Silberdock Egyptian dress, the head is
wrapped, the halbentblößten arms and the face is with blue foil,
instead of the two eyes shining stones.

Magische lighting.) Azur. You! me through the magic power was born,
my area you a blessing or a curse? Cheristane. Flott To protect
Wells spirit, I chose you. Azur. Can I be? Look in the book of fate!
(Now followed by a trembling music underneath.)

"No Fatum rule on his life, he bring himself to misfortune or blessing.
He can only be alone to warn By misfortune he himself can only
umgarnen And since he is free from all chains of fate, Can it be I only
rescue from shame. "Cheristane. I am aware of the fate of strict acquittal,
the me to punish, is deeply invented. Receive my golden here spellbook.
It will teach you what clever liebgequälter List My mind has
invented.

But I must machtberaubt by Hinnen fliehn. That's why you take me instead
of the deed And let me not, in my desolate home ziehn. Azur (takes the
book). Zieh quiet home, faithful to you I will act as a savior thou
shalt see me again. (The cloud closes. Music.) Cheristane. Oh, hätt
ichs never dared to walk on earth, Too bitter punisheth this desire
delight! (It falls on knees and bows her head sorrowful before the
altar.)

Eleventh plaintive music gig in transformation in a short forest. On the
side of a hill thicket. hunters pull on the scene. choir hunting. Gilts,
forests to roam, free Hebet the chest. Kühn to attack the boar, is the
highest pleasure of the hunter. Ho ho! Ho ho! Weidgesellen happy! If
the track was found, he wallows in the black blood that is reflected
in his wounds Even last embers of the evening. Ho ho! Ho ho! huntsman is
happy! Subtracting custom home to hunters, the night beckons us to trust
Ruh, examining his Liebchen lodge Closes Pförtlein softly. Ho ho! Ho ho!
hunter bride is happy! (All from.) (Valentin, who was hiding in the bushes,
coming out.) Valentin. Because of my continued their hunt, as long
as you want. I will be there so wildschweinmäßig treated. I schießet all
together, the Sappermenter if I am just a tap on shotguns hätt. I can not
understand what the people make the damn game ever have. What song
is but the Lord, even the rich life so difficult! To s' cattle plague
and people, need s 'every week to hunt. God forgive me my sins, I do
not understand what dran find this creep in the canyons That Smell
by Juchten. In short, in all seriousness said,' here are not
stupid as hunting. Even by three clock is the hour for the people and
for the dog. Each comes with its socket, And catch da s' to the groom.
After racing s' possessed, without a morsel z 'eat whole days by
the forest, And that is a entertainment!

Ah, this is where God bewahrn eim, D 'hunters are all Narrn. In short,
hunting let me stay. What the hunters are driving boys, How s' me habn
herumgestoßen, hätt Soon I shot myself. Over a hundred thousand roots
Let eim jumbled the guy, and is hardly seen on the nose, tuck s' at all
to blow, And the hot s' a hunt! Oh, the sky seis sued. Müde as a ghetzter
Has Putting into the cool grass, Believe You're all alone there,
a huge pig.

And we can not want to fight, come back a couple of bears, on the
pages of a few tigers, And yet God knows what for cattle, And since
you are the midst of it all!

That I hold no meaning. (Expires.) Repetition No, the kind I have in
mind. D 'hunter so you can not offend.

Indeed, if no hunter would Fräßen us at the end bears.' s Wildpret
will also enjoy Consequently but one must shoot.

Bratne woodcock, hazel hens, God, how do the Viennese! And I agree with
them: Hunting and must be Wildpret. (Ab) Twelfth appearance transformation
A lovely area in the background, a clear lake, from sweet Mountains
included. a rock right over him in the entrance Cheristanens rock
cave, before which she in her previous costume, but without a crown,
and looks into the distance.

Cheristane. Now he has quickly climbed the steep Höh and the sweet look
Minnas Send hut, which he mentioned that they are always his favorite
umschirme. So it may be because for the last sight of her look.

(Short Music. It transforms into a lovely peasant girl, in the Italian
flavors delicately dressed, and declines rapidly in the rock what a
friendly lodge is the entwined vines and flowers, and from whose
door it is surprisingly fast. At the same time, transform the scenes in
oriental goldgesäumte large flowers and palm trees that are still viable
against the middle of the stage. After thinking she In the foreground
is a lawn with flower curtain bank.)

Oh, he himself may only warn With luck and misfortune itself umgarnen And
since he is free from all chains of fate, Could he himself only saved
from ignominy. O fate dimmer award to a Baby leihet wings and his angels
steals. Vorige Thirteenth appearance. Flottwell. Flottwell (happy).
Heitere day, my expensive girl who was not angry that I even appeared
so late, because my desire has been long with you.

But -- Say! what is you? You're sad! Who did what to hurt himself?
Jealousy haunts you? Are you sick? Saddened? Say! Or do you want
me grieve? Cheristane (is moving up). You? my Julius, no, I will
not! (Loops her arms around his neck and sets her head to his chest.)
Flottwell. So you're only half of my otherwise very happy. The good
half is missing, and only the turbid rests on my chest.

Come, let us make peace, trust child. You ahnest not what I'm happily
agrees. Thou shalt no longer dwell in thy hut. You need me tomorrow
to my palace follow.

Too long adorned the bridal wreath Seidner your curls, he might otherwise
wither on your forehead. The world must be as my faithful wife greet
thee, thou must be no longer resist. Cheristane. Oh, more 'is not my
sorrow! Drag me to this height, it shows a paradise to me that I may
never enter. I have deceived you! I am not the creature that you at this
moment still looking for me. Flottwell. Be what you want.

Listening not only to the kindness to be. Three years have passed it
when I am on the hunt to hieher and lost for the first time you saw.
Your beauty shone strange in the Low hut like a gem in one hand beggar.
You opened your heart to me. But I never was allowed to explore, where
you did and who you seist. And look! I was so obedient as a child, you
have never andre Frag heard me as if you'll ever love.

You searched the area into an Eden here transforms and test plant
flowers as they only decorate the Indian dreams.

I've never asked you how you became such power, wars me enough room and
that done for me. Cheristane. You, they were doomed, but they flourished
in vain. They should thy soul into their circles duftgen ziehn and you
experience the true value of Fortune teach.

I have not been met. Among wild is your imagination, be highly desirable.
You want your life, a shimmering banquet, and draw the world to your
golden plate. Oh, let them once dirs with love worth! Flottwell. They
will do it, show not so gloomy sense. Come, follow me like you're sick
with loneliness. Cheristane. Free. Too late! You can no longer hold me,
hug me for the last time tonight.

Flottwell (wild and fierce). It must not happen. Who dares to prey
on my favorite Good? - Cheristane. The fate! Flottwell. Believe it not!
My luck has courage, so fast it can not be beat. (Umschlingt it.) I do
not let you out of my arm, even if you are unfaithful, I will love
thee, until thou to me wiederkehrst.

(Musik. - In this moment, flies a red eagle with a golden crown on her
head on the lake.) Cheristane.

Across from me, (for themselves) I already feel my power offense. Do
you see the purple-red Aar, his main befiedert adorned with a crown?
Flottwell. What are you speaking for? No bird gets here! (Musik. - A group
of fog-figures, whose eyes menacingly on Cheristane is addressed, flying
over the lake.) Cheristane. Not even the threat of figures that I am
returning to my call?

Taken just ahead, I will soon follow. (Looking after rigid.) Flottwell.
My expensive child, how did you get seriously ill!

Say at what are these figures? and who is crowned the Aar? Cheristane
(solemnly). Illmaha the Feenkönigin. (It drops down and bends her head.
Then she continues.)

Wisse because no human beings, you have to hold your heart. Cheristane
is my name, I'm from the Feiengeschlechte, my home, the distant
clouds, in the magic circles ewgen about Persia and Arabia draw.

Flottwell. Is in the clouds Lieb crimes, punishes them there a curse of
fate? then yes, the earth would be a celestial and eternal exile?

Cheristane. Oh, hear me before you lästerst! Already there are three
times seven years that I entered your star. In order to benefit the
earth to practice, the Queen sent me. They expressed a pearl crown on
my head and forever young said: In each of these gems is a magic
included, which you can use in any form. Use them with wisdom of human
salvation. If you have the latest Pearl sacrificed, is your kingdom
to an end, and you return back to punishment or reward in front of
my throne to receive them. Woe to you, if you are happy, and so unworthy
the noble treasure of the penurious escape .-- (pause, in which they
are meaningful and Julius looked wistfully.) Whether ichs done is show
me the future - I still had a lot of beads, as I am thy father's palace
before the siebzehnjährgen Julius saw. You were so hold as the spring
time, and I could not, my liebgereiztes Aug to contact you. From that
moment I had your happiness in me decided, and many dissolved pearls
I want my crown, and strewed them on thy father and thy head. Hence the
unermeßne wealth that he acquired in a short time. Oh, hätt ichs never
done! He died. Beweint not from ingratitude, from thee alone. Wards of
the goods you Lord, and now I only recognize that everything I do to
your well-thought through your passion you used to be misfortune. I
could no longer my heart zones, I led you've hieher and since that time
my greatest happiness in your love found. Now the dream is over. My beads
are wasted, and the last one I still have the benefit of your
sacrifice.

Once I did not care that it is the symbol could be bittrer tears.

The student and I,
forgetting the subject of discussion, hastened with our brethren to
attend to the wretched beings who were laid shattered, bleeding, and
dying on the ground before us, while the special, seeing that we had run
short of water, caught up a couple of buckets and ran to a neighbouring
spring.  It chanced that the ground between our place of shelter and the
spring was at that time swept by the fire of contending troops, but in
spite of this the special coolly filled his buckets and brought them
in--happily without being injured.

The battle raged during the whole of that day all over the plain.  Being
taken up almost exclusively with our duties, we surgeons had little time
to observe the progress of the fight; nevertheless, mindful of my
character as a reporter, I took advantage of an occasional moment of
relaxation to jot down a few notes.

There was a hill not far from that on which we stood which was held by a
Russian regiment.  Around it the fight appeared to rage very fiercely.
The roar of artillery and the incessant rattle of small arms had by this
time gathered in force until it resembled a storm.  Hundreds of white
puffs all over the field told of death from shots which were too far off
to be heard, while the belching of a battery on the hill just mentioned
caused the very earth to tremble.

The Turks at this point executed a flank movement, and attempted to take
the hill by storm.  At the same time one of their batteries appeared on
the top of a ridge opposite, and began to play on the hill with terrible
precision.  To counteract this a Russian battery of three guns was
despatched.  I saw the horses come galloping in from the rear; one of
the guns was limbered up, and off they went like the wind.  At that
moment a shell from the Turkish battery fell right under the gun, and,
exploding, blew it, with the men and horses, into the air.  The other
guns reached the hill in safety, wheeled into position, and, for a time,
checked the Turkish fire.  Nevertheless, undeterred by the withering
salvos, the Turks came on in powerful columns till they drew near to the
hotly contested point.

At the foot of it the Russians had dug trenches and thrown up
earth-works the night before.  I observed with surprise that, as the
attacking columns advanced, the Russian rifle-fire ceased, though the
battery continued to cut lanes in the living masses.  It occurred to me
that our men were reserving fire according to the Skobeleff plan.  In
this I was right.  When the Turks were within a hundred yards of the
trenches the defenders fired as one man.  The front ranks of the enemy
fell like corn before the scythe; those in rear charged with
irresistible impetuosity over their dead comrades.  But the Russians had
anticipated such an event.  They had placed mines in the ground, which,
when the Turks passed over them, were fired, and hundreds of men were
blown into the air.  This checked them.  For a time they recoiled and
were thrown into disorder.  At that moment a young officer rallied them
and charged again.  The trenches were entered and a hand-to-hand
conflict ensued.  With my field-glass I could see the fierce expressions
of the men as they drove their reeking bayonets right through their
enemies, and the appalling gasp and glare of eye in those whose mortal
career had been thus suddenly brought to a close.  Yells of fury,
shouts, curses, clubbed rifles, battered skulls, unearthly shrieks,
smoke and blood--who can imagine or describe such a scene!

The Russian soldier fights well.  His courage is equal to that of the
men of other nations, and his weight gives him the advantage over some,
but nothing can resist the power of overwhelming numbers.

Sitting on a height, and comfortably watching the battle through
telescopes, the Turkish generals quietly move the "men" on the bloody
board.  Hundreds of Turks have perished.  What matter? there are
thousands on thousands ready to follow.  Turkey must maintain her
"integrity."  Pashas must wallow in wealth.  Millions of peasants must
toil to accomplish these ends; if need be, they must die.  The need at
present is--to die.  "Push on more battalions to reinforce them" is the
order.  No doubt the hundreds who have fallen, and the thousands who
must yet fall, will leave hundreds of wives and thousands of children to
hopeless mourning; but what of that? they are only _canaille_, cared for
by nobody in particular, but God.  No doubt the country must suffer for
it.  We must pay for war.  We shall have an enormous national debt--that
can't be helped, and other countries have the same,--besides, we can
borrow from rich trusting nations, and repudiate our debts; our land
shall feel the drain of its best young blood for generations yet to
come, but time heals most sores; people will multiply as heretofore;
fate is unavoidable, and Allah is great!  Moreover, what does it all
matter to us so long as our integrity is maintained, our seraglios
remain intact, and our coffers are filled?  For such a man was just
like a soldier on the battlefield, for the fatherland, for which humanity
had fallen and the same should be grateful for. This language
came unreservedly embarrassed excuses. He urged that a clear
decision, one replied that the case once again would thoroughly
investigate.

The desire to win time, was apparently, and the entangled Hofrat
knew the ways and the rusty machinery too well to give themselves to
appease. He went to the minister, declared himself as the poor informed,
protecting important business before him and pointed to the section chief
Friesenheim. Here feigned indifference by pleasing zeal, even with this
tactic was the Hofrat familiar.

He let the men no rest, he insisted on his claim that he knocked on the
right. You heard him, it jerked the armpits, each insured his
willingness, each declared to be powerless. Everywhere the same apparent
permissiveness same lukewarmness. Robert Lamm feared to spoil anything,
his anger when he could not tame. In the Salzburg mountains he had,
long time ago already, a pasture and bought a cabin, he fled there as
often as him the anger and the plague was too much.

He did it again now, and took himself to wait patiently. But this time it
dawned before the loneliness, he drove to Carezza, where he made many
friends to make sure where he dispel stun could.

Two days after the conversation with Olivia, he was awarded in the
case of Doctor Seelmann the written decision of the Ministry
concerning the substantive compensation, you have ample funds to
support the family is approved, all other claims must be made
well-reasoned but reject.

"The Reasons I want to know, "gritted the Hofrat. He packed his bags
and traveled. In his dark impatience came by rail to him like a wicked
slow worm gear before.

Immediately after his arrival he hastened to the responsible
authorities.

On the grounds it was not poor. Why a warm lapsed dispute, a happy
willfully buried scandal again before the public tug?

Why otherwise peaceful citizens for at least dubious and difficult
detectable offense to harm or even bring their existence?

It is but now everything is so beautifully smoothed and forget what
the fire blow again, why do bad blood?

What finally a comedy honor statement that the dead no longer useful
and only the living would be angry? "A happily buried scandal is
that you," said Robert Lamb with twinkling eyes. »Beautiful smoothed
and forget you can find everything?

Well, we will see if you are not fearful and anxious before ghosts.

"He threatened to beat noise. The story was questionable, the troublemaker
began to become very uncomfortable. You could not hurt him, too many
supported him, he was too popular.

Therefore, we rejoiced in the quiet, when he in his wrath to the
string taut and stretched to his farewell bat.

It was a shock means that he did not believe that he would leave, he
had a too strong awareness of its necessity and importance of its
services.

With the farewell was granted. Since it years ago in a matter which
touches the yard had to be sharp in the stuff was gone, you needed
rebuke or objection from above not to be afraid. It took him by surprise.
It took days, even weeks, until he again had gathered.

The conditions were so much less healthy, much more toxic than he had
imagined. He was paralyzed. He settled the matter for which he
sacrificed to be based. He most people, was shy and strange. He
left his city apartment and withdrew completely into his villa back.

This villa was at the end of the southwest suburb, near the wooded hills
and surrounded by a large garden that stretches from prying eyes
by a high stone wall was protected.

The numerous rooms containing treasures of paintings, statues, books,
porcelain and antique furniture. The Hofrat but the rooms were closed
off and embed itself in a gable Chamber. The housekeeper cooked for
him, and the servant Gerold, a sort of factotum, provided for his other
needs. * * * * * At first he had seen Olivia almost daily. Either he
came to her, talked for a while with his mother Olivia and invited
to accompany him, or they went to him. If it worked, she sat down in a
corner, took a book and read. From what at this time he met,
he said no. They learned it from others. Each disfigured it in his
own way, but it was enough that she watches Robert Lamm, then put
everything right.

She was proud of him, nevertheless expressed its essence it down, but
they knew how it happened. He was confidential and cordial, yet it seemed
as he talk with her through a wall round. The fact that he could not
come closer, they are worried and drove it repeatedly in its vicinity.
Since the disaster occurred, which made him its effectiveness,
snatched from his career.

On the day before he moved into the villa, he gave her in unfriendly
tone to understand that he held until further notice of any people would
be harassed. You could've said it and was injured and remain in
silence. Recovery until she heard from others what had happened, it
made deep impression on them, but since he had zurückgestoßen, it
remained far. She wanted her life back as it used to lead. The serenity
and carelessness were dissipated.

It was not more of the levity is Sweet dreams, the uninhibited laughter.
They listened attentively to what people have said to her, and mistrusted
the words. For some people they had loved, she also likes now, but
lacked the right joy. There was, for example Senoner Nina, the
wife of a major industrialist.

She was ten years older than Olivia, already had a fifteen-year-old
daughter and was by all who knew, because of its gentleness and charm of
their admiration.

Well Olivia still felt the magic of their system, but the whole existence
of this woman appeared to her at once empty, they said in their trains
melancholy, it was not noticed previously, and what was the worst,
being with her she bore . In this grief she took refuge on their books,
their thoughts but had no continuity, it was not a goal, she was
not satisfied. concerts, theater, sports, nothing satisfied them
more.

Their relations were numerous by the day relaxed, and often they only had
to laboriously remember what they are to the person or those who
had shackled, they were suddenly so unadorned and without incentive.

The house Friesheimsche avoided her. Edward had served as ship's doctor
service on a Lloyd steamer took from overseas ports, he wrote letters
to Olivia, in which disappointment, resignation and hope shy glowing
included. She replied, rarely, the clay, which they anschlug could not
lift his confidence. One day Marianne came to her, sat in silence for
a while there, and at once began to cry.

Olivia hugged her, saying she knew little, she had no consolation.
She asked after Ingbert, Marianne looked up surprised and indignant. So
you adjust?

her angry accusatory glance. Only when Olivia, a cool and baffled,
for the second time asked Marianne recognized their mistake, but
still intense crying.

Strangely, the tears not touched Olivia, Marianne calmly researched it
and learned that Ingbert have been weeks in the city had returned
and in his studio with almost no care was sick.

"Yes, you have not visited him since?" Olivia asked with big eyes.
"How am I to do? How can I visit him since? "Said Marianne, and her mouth
twitched it helpless.

Olivia folded hands and said slowly: "But what do you want then? Why you
cry? "Marianne lowered his head. "Forgive, Olivia, I think I've got
you unjustly accused," she breathed.

Then Olivia had no response and was now quite cold and the closed. Ingbert
When she came to, she was from an old Aufwärterin dismissed.

There must be no one to him, said the woman, he is in a fever. They
asked him which doctor treating the woman replied that he would not
visit a doctor. Since Olivia asked her family doctor, that he visit
him, and it appeases their concern.

Even her brother, Ferdinand, she sent out and was glad to note that
he was pleased to Ingbert. When she finally even had to go to him, she
brought him roses. His pale face was in her sight überflammt of joy,
and their obvious dismay at the habitation of his paltriness drew him
with a melancholy smile.

She came almost every day. He had an old spinet, then he played it before.
She saw his pictures and studies, and asked if he had not wanted to
sell. It was a fine hand-work, full of poetry and a special viewing
of nature. He chose a few pieces and gave prices against their humility
they raised objection. He fought proudly showed-from. Because they were
kept in the header had set him, albeit against his will to help, she
wrote to Robert Lamb, of whom she knew that he had interest in
pictures. A few days later informed her Ingbert with the Hofrat had
been with him, had but can not decide, one of the images to be acquired.
There was something mischievous in his words, drew suspicion and
Olivia went to Robert Lamb, to him to ask. "Your painting is a
fool," said Robert Lamb, "I wanted to buy him two pictures, he answered
me, just where he could not be separated. I referred him to another,
because he said it was not ready, and when we finally have a fourth
almost had become a trade, he claimed that he had promised a friend. You
would do well to me in future with such orders to spare. "He walked in
the room up and down. "What the heck?

What's on? "He said with his bright-nagging voice continued. »What's
with all the art? What supports it? Who supports them? Wen comforted
them? Who makes them better? Reduces the misery, infamy, the arbitrariness?
It's all fake and self-deception. The people who like to create,
throw, heart, spirit, ideas, Genie in a fetid swamp, and the others who
are enthusiastic, it serves as an excuse for their bad conscience.

"Olivia objected, he insisted, the twisting and turning of words was a
pointless suffering. There was no point where they could fix, he
snatched it away, he tore it in fear and disbelief into it. With
horror she felt that with every step, which they undertook, inwardly
trembled before his verdict, and all of their senses then sought
to understand the fatal influence to escape.

What to tenderness in their soul was poured to Ingbert; she gave
him a perpetual trust, albeit a quiet, but he seemed to understand,
never broke through a cheeky word from him the barriers they had
erected.

He was allowed to kiss it, if they came and where they went. He forgot
not that he is only allowed. He treated them like a treasure, which
just happened to be in his custody was given. She stood now in the
bloom of their beauty, and all the people turned out in the street after
her, and their boldly-aufgereckte attitude, the noble course, the
northern blond hair, the skin-like beads, the completed construction
of its elegant body and movement, everything in the club was so
rare as unforgettable.

Ingbert painted them again and again. He said: "Now you see only what
a Stümper I am," but she smiled at him and was happy about these hours
that allowed her to collect. So adorable as her former geschienen the
whole world had their eyes so enchanting now Ingbert alone. And it was
her feeling confused, deeply and painfully obscured. You could not
even rest, and finally, deeming them to gain clarity. What weighed on her
was spiritual guilt, moral guilt, the year that was heaped and still,
hour by hour, grew up.

And there, in his voluntary solitude, sat the judges, to which she
had to go, only he could help her - to the people, by the people.
People! That was the mystery of the agony they did because people
had not felt that they merely tolerated and not tested?

They lived and they are not recognized? Was everything just been
playing, what they had with them pleasant lie? These alliances were all
void, and with this Füreinandersein, it was worthless, the delight
of the reprehensible things that Beschwingung and the quest Gaukelei
vain, and what they are entitled to the gnawing suspicion? What had
paralyzed the wing force, the undaunted faith shattered? How were
the doubts come? Words only. Words could have such power? But behind
the words were the faces, here the face of a hypocrite, then the face
of a legal person, here, by the lazy enjoyment was devastated,
then one that had drawn the hunger, and especially _sein_ face tough
Robert Lamb, disturbed , bitter, judge face.

You had to go to him. She wanted to have peace, they wanted to
have more evidence, with a verdict to which they could help, a
path which leads back into the sun.

They endured it not, in hatred against the world to lose. * * * *
* Mrs.

Khuenbeck had with the Hofrat because of a guardianship matter to speak,
it was Ferdinand's future. She had written him several times before
he decided to come. His visit fell on a day in the carnival, and Ingbert
Ferdinand had agreed together to a masked ball to go, Olivia also was
subject to several acquaintances had been invited to participate,
but had refused.

Robert Lamb sat with his wife at the table and Khuenbeck overload
some Certificates, as occurred Ingbert and Ferdinand and a friend of
the latter with noise and laughter into the room. One was a vagabond,
the other as Indians, the third dressed as an Italian fisherman. Ms.
Khuenbeck rose, bright surprised Olivia smiled and stood on the
threshold.

Miene Robert Lamb expressed pleasure, and he even clapped applause.

After a jocular verbal exchange with the young people began to
report from redoubts, where he this or that adventurous and unusual
costume was a stir.

It requires much imagination to such events add spice to lend, he
said, and described a celebration of the former, in which outstanding
individuals, writers, actors, diplomats, dancers witty incursions
by himself would have done.

He gave some anecdotes from those times at the best, the narrator's
brilliant talent put into the light, short, he was so tidy, so entertaining,
and despite the cynicism, the secret or undisguised always, in his
words, was so winning, that all on his lips hung and not conceal
their regret when he cancels, and, suddenly dry and wooden politely
recommended.

Olivia was in hat and coat, because some purchases in the city
wanted to make. They joined the Hofrat, and he seemed pleased about it.
His unexpected communicativeness redemptive they had earned, they drew
hope that his presence seemed to be no longer a risk to abstain. Silently
they went side by side. It was evening, many people were on the road.
The Hofrat bent from the main roads into the quieter, but even
there he said no. Initially eyes Olivia silence this course, but
when she watches him, she noticed that his face dark and was hostile.
You frightened they could not explain the transformation, they feared
him hurt to have wanted to ask, but gave no word on the lips. Always
balancing sustaining crippling was always his silence, and he appeared
to her a cruel and mysterious. You would have to be able to adopt
him, but she was unable to execute the intent. The direction in which
they went, was far from their goal, what forced them to follow him? She
felt like she was beginning to pale and a strange horror they beschlich.
Suddenly, he stopped. They were already behind the belt, and instead of
the electric arc lamps burned Fahle Gaslaternen. He put both hands on
both her shoulders, looked sharp and asked: "Why do not you come to
me?" Mute looked at the ground. "Come tomorrow," he said mandatory. A
car drove up the road. He called on the handlebars, Olivia asked where
they wish to drive, helped her into the carriage, gave the man money,
lüpfte the hat and hurried out. * * * * * When she at the other afternoon
in the Villa came, told her Gerold servant of the Lord Hofrat was
in the garden.

Gradually phasing them through the alleys and on the ways and
finally saw him on a bed, where he harkte. Nearby dug the gardener
and his accomplice to the earth.

He waved to her, she stopped and waited. After a while he appeared
to her. He immediately began to speak of Ferdinand and said the young
man was in the process to verludern; he had with the mother talked
about him, and they had agreed that it would be best if we sent him
to Germany.

An aspiring engineer there would offer better prospects and a richer field
of activity than here, where all power will be broken and talent and
diligence of the fleeting pleasure victim to fall.

Another plan, which he also Khuenbeck woman brought to the discharge was
the a housing change.

The apartment in the elegant neighborhood was too expensive, and Ms.

Khuenbeck she had been terminated a few weeks ago. She had not yet
found a suitable home, and because it had Robert Lamm advised in
its vicinity, to the country.

Coincidentally, he had heard that in a house in Pötzleinsdorf an
apartment of three rooms for rent was cheap, he had been there this
morning, and since everything in desirable state showed that he
rented the same apartment.

In fourteen days they could übersiedeln, Olivia may align it at home.

"Thou hast only a few minutes walk to me," he concluded, "can come
whenever you want and here in the garden walk.

If you's want, judge 'I give you a pavilion, as you can sit and
dream.

There, the roundabout between the chestnut, from May, it is entirely
buried in flowers.

Admittedly, it is better not to dream, it's better, the eyes remain open,
so you will not be cheated. "Olivia as the mother reluctantly left from
the old apartment, where she has been the death of the professor lived.
Olivia appeared to become an unwanted condition raped, and as the new
home they were related, she came like a exiles before, cut off from
all sources. They suppressed their feelings, to dull the mother
does not wake up, the Hofrat that sometimes came over them, and the
detuning was in malicious remarks.

To that time there was the abundance of flowers in his garden, and he
once sent a carload of potted plants, with whom Olivia, the windows
and balconies adorned, until the poor and poor freshness of the
room was veiled.

In May Ferdinand traveled to Berlin, a larger provision contrary. His
friends gave him a farewell party, and the separation of mother
and sister he was not easy.

Olivia could not find long, his Mitdasein she always been so obvious, now
missing his joke, his gracious freedom to all hours.

Ms. Khuenbeck had the plans to the Hofrat in relation to future Ferdinand
had developed, always willing beigestimmt; the achievement, she added
her as an injustice, and they adopted a grudge against Robert Lamb.
This was much talk between lamb and Olivia. He spoke bitterly about the
ingratitude of the mother and mocked about their snivelling weakness.
»Profit and add nothing to a business do they want all," he said scornfully,
"others are working for themselves and the rest of his merry, merry be
heirassassa." "Had your father understood how to run a business, then
you do not brauchtet how to live stunted, "he said another time,"
he has in some years, sixty-, seventy-, eighty thousand crowns earned,
and if he only had half back, so it would have today a sizeable fortune.
Instead, it was everything for the kitchen and the basement is wasted,
every day open table, a dozen boarders who fattens the stomach
and if they had turned their backs to the mouth, torn, because they
never got enough; Schöntuer and toady who to never ausborgten money,
servants, like the raven stole, indeed, it was great! The heart was
bleeding one if you're watching. There was nothing to improve such
living was considered aristocratic, none made it different, it was a
gentleman, you could not come off, they each benefit overpayment,
and each tip Schubiak could be inserted, if he only knew eager to
bow and scrape.

During the night another spy came in, reporting that Osman was
concentrating his men near the bridge over the Vid, and that he had
issued three days' rations to the troops, with a hundred and fifty
cartridges and a new pair of sandals to each man.  About the same time
there came a telegram to the effect that lights were moving about with
unwonted activity in Plevna, and something unusual was evidently afoot.
Thus the report of the first spy was partly corroborated.

Meanwhile Nicholas and Dobri Petroff, mounting in the dark hours of
morning, rode through the snowstorm--which was gradually abating--in the
direction of the bridge over the Vid, while Skobeleff himself proceeded
towards the Krishina redoubts, which, it was reported, were being
abandoned.  The report was true; he took possession of these redoubts
unopposed, and instantly put them in a state of defence.

Meanwhile Osman, with his brave but worn-out band, made his last sortie
from Plevna.

The grey light of a dull wintry morning broke and revealed masses, like
darker clouds of the threatening storm, driving across the plain.  These
were the Ottoman troops--some say 20,000 men--rushing like baited tigers
towards the trenches.  Suddenly there came the thunderous roar of a
hundred heavy guns, followed by the crash and incessant rattle of the
rifles.  The deciding battle had begun.  The mists of early morning
mingled with the smoke of fire-arms, so that the movements of men were
not visible in many places.  In others a few fighting companies were
just visible, showing indistinctly through the haze for a minute or two,
while sheets of flame played in front of their rifles like trickling
lines of electric light.  Elsewhere, from the cliffs above the Vid,
globes of fire were seen to rend the mists, as cannon played their part
in the deadly game, while the fearful cries of maddened and wounded men
mingled with the crashing of artillery.  Here and there numerous
bullock-wagons were seen rolling slowly along, and horses and cattle
were galloping wildly about the plain.  It was a scene that might have
made the flesh of the most callous people creep with pitying horror.

Advancing as far as possible under cover of their bullock-wagons, the
Turks began to play their part with vigour, but the Russians opened on
them from one of their batteries with shell and shrapnel, whilst the men
in the trenches sent a rain of bullets from their Berdan breech-loaders.
The terrified oxen, tearing about madly, or falling, soon rendered the
wagon-cover useless.  Then the Turks forsook it, and, with a wild shout,
charged the first line of trenches.  These were held by a Siberian
regiment.  The Turks swept over them like a tornado, poured into the
battery, where the artillerymen, who stood to their guns like heroes,
were bayoneted almost to a man.  Thus the first investing circle was
broken, but here Ottoman courage was met by irresistible force, and
valour quite equal to its own, and here the tide of battle turned.

Nicholas Naranovitsch, despatched by General Strukoff, galloped towards
the scene of action.

"Come, Dobri!" he cried, with blazing eyes that told of excitement
almost too strong to be mastered, "there is work for you and me now."

Petroff, mounted and ready, awaiting the orders of his master, sprang
out at the summons from a troop of the first brigade of grenadiers, who
were at she moment preparing to advance.  They dashed forward.  An order
had been intrusted to Nicholas, but he never delivered it.  He was met
by advancing hosts of the enemy.  He turned aside, intending to execute
his mission, if possible, by a detour.  In this effort he was caught up,
as it were, and carried on by the Russian grenadiers, who flung
themselves on the Turks with irresistible fury.  In another moment his
horse fell under him.  Dobri instantly dismounted, but the horse which
he meant to offer to his master also fell, and the two were carried
onward.  The opposing forces met.  A hand-to-hand fight ensued--man to
man, bayonet to bayonet.  The Turks clung to the guns in the captured
battery with obstinate bravery.  Nicholas and Dobri having both broken
their sabres at the first onset, seized the rifles of fallen men and
laid about them with a degree of overpowering energy, which, conserved
and expended rightly for the good of man, might have made each a noted
benefactor of the human race, but which, in this instance, resulted only
in the crushing in of a few dozen Turkish skulls!

Gradually the stabbing and smashing of "God's image," on the part of the
Russians, began to tell.  The Turks gave way, and finally took to
flight.

But shortly before this occurred there was a desperate effort made by a
handful of Turks to retrieve the fortunes of the day.  It was personally
led by Sanda Pasha, who, reinstated by the vacillating and contemptible
powers at Constantinople, had been sent--too late--to the relief of
Plevna.

At the first rush the Pasha fell.  He was only wounded, but his
followers thought he was killed, and, stung with rage and despair,
fought like fiends to avenge him.  At that moment the Russian general
rode up to a neighbouring eminence and had his attention drawn to this
point in the battle.

He ordered up reinforcements.  Nicholas and his man now seemed on the
point of having their wishes gratified.  Poor Petroff's desire to meet
an honourable death had every chance of being realised, while the thirst
for military distinction in Nicholas had at last a brilliant opportunity
of being quenched.

As the fight in this part of that bloody field progressed, it
concentrated into a knot around the two heroes.  Just then a fresh body
of Turkish infantry charged, led by the Nubian, Hamed Pasha, whose horse
had been killed under him.  Dobri Petroff and Hamed rushed at one
another instantly; each seemed at once to recognise the other as a
worthy foeman.  The great hacked sword whistled for a few minutes round
the scout's head so fast that it required his utmost agility to parry
cut and thrust with his rifle, but a favourable chance soon offered, and
he swung the stock of his piece at his adversary's head with such force
as to break the sword short off at the hilt.  The Nubian sprang at Dobri
like a tiger.  They grappled, and these men of herculean mould were so
well matched that for a few seconds they stood quivering with mighty but
fruitless efforts to bear each other down.  It was at this moment that
the Russian reinforcements came up, fired a volley, and charged.  Dobri
and Hamed dropped side by side, pierced with bullets.  Nicholas also
fell.  The raging hosts passed over them, and the Turks were driven over
the plain like autumn leaves before the gale.

Immediately after, a battery of horse artillery swept across the
hotly-contested ground, the wheels of the heavy ordnance and the hoofs
of the half-mad horses crashing over the heads said limbs of all who
chanced to lie in their way.

Oh! it is _bitter_ to reflect on the grand courage that is mis-displayed
in the accursed service of war!  Beaten, overwhelmed, crushed, all but
annihilated, the poor peasant-soldiers of Turkey, who probably knew
nothing whatever about the cause for which they fought, took shelter at
last behind the broken wagons under which they had advanced, and then
turned at bay.  Others made for the deep banks of the Vid, where they
re-formed, and instantly began to return the Russian fire.

The sortie was now virtually repulsed.  It was about half-past eight.
The Turks, evidently apprehensive that the enemy would charge and drive
them back into the gorge which led to Plevna, remained on the defensive.
The Russians, obviously afraid lest the enemy should attempt another
sortie, also remained on the defensive.  For four hours they continued
in this condition, "during which period the battle raged," it was said,
"with the utmost fury," but it is also admitted that very little damage
was done to either side, "for both armies were under cover!"  In other
words, the belligerents remained for four hours in the condition of a
couple of angry costermongers, hooting and howling at each other without
coming to blows, while shot and shell and powder and lead were being
expended for nothing, at a rate which added thousands sterling to the
burdens of the peace-loving members of both countries!

"About twelve o'clock," according to an eye-witness, "the firing began
to diminish on both sides, as if by mutual agreement."

I have a very thorough appreciation of this idea of "mutual agreement."
It is well known among schoolboys.  When two of these specimens of the
rising generation have been smashing each other's faces, blackening each
other's eyes, and bleeding each other's noses for three-quarters of an
hour, without having decided a victory, they both feel a strong desire
to stop, are ready to "give in," and, on the smallest encouragement from
"seconds," will shake hands.  Indeed, this well-known and somewhat
contemptible state of mind is familiar to a larger growth of boys--
happily not in England--called duellists.  We deliberately call the
state of mind "contemptible," because, if a matter is worth fighting for
(physically), it ought to be fought for to the "bitter end."  If it is
not worth fighting for, there should be no fighting at all!

However, as I have said, the fire began to slacken about mid-day, and
then gradually ceased.  The silence that succeeded was deeply
impressive--also suggestive.  Half-an-hour later a white flag was seen
waving from the road that ran round the cliffs beyond the bridge.

Plevna had fallen.  Osman Pasha and his army had surrendered.  In other
words--the fate of the Turkish Empire was sealed!


CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

WOE TO THE "AUBURN HAIR!"  AFTER THE BATTLE--PROWLING VILLAINS PUNISHED.

When the white flag was seen a loud shout went up from the Russian army.
Then a party of officers rode forward, and two Turkish horsemen were
seen advancing.  They stated that Osman himself was coming to treat with
the Russians.

The spot on which they stood was covered with the grim relics of battle.
The earth had been uptorn by exploding shells.  Here lay a horse
groaning and struggling in its agony.  Close to it lay an ox, silently
bleeding to death, his great, round, patient eyes looking mournfully at
the scene around him.  Close by, was a cart with a dead horse lying in
the yoke as he had fallen, and a Turkish soldier, stretched alongside,
whose head had been carried away by a cannon shot.  Under the wagon was
a wounded man, and close to him four others, who, drained of nearly all
their life-blood, lay crouched together in helplessness, with the hoods
of their ragged grey overcoats drawn down on their faces.  These latter
gazed at the murky sky in listless indifference, or at what was going on
in a sort of weary surprise.  Among them was Nicholas Naranovitsch.

Russian surgeons were already moving about the field of battle, doing
what they could, but their efforts were trifling compared with the vast
necessity.

At last there was a shout of "Osman!"  "He comes!"

"We will give him a respectful reception," exclaimed one Russian
officer, in what is supposed by some to be the "gallant spirit of true
chivalry."

"That we will," cried another; "we must all salute him, and the soldiers
must present arms."

"He is a great soldier," exclaimed a third, "and has made a heroic
defence."

Even Skobeleff himself seems to have been carried away by the feeling of
the moment, if we may credit report, for he is said to have exclaimed--

"He is the greatest general of the age, for he has saved the honour of
his country: I will proffer him my hand and tell him so."

"So," thought I, when afterwards meditating on this subject, "the Turks
have for centuries proved themselves to be utterly unworthy of
self-government; they have shown themselves to be ignorant of the first
principles of righteousness,--_meum_ and _tuum_; they (or rather their
rulers) have violated their engagements and deceived those who trusted
them; have of late repudiated their debts, and murdered, robbed,
violated, tortured those who differed from them in religious opinions,
as is generally admitted,--nevertheless now, because one of their
generals has shown somewhat superior ability to the rest, holding in
check a powerful enemy, and exhibiting, with his men, a degree of
bull-dog courage which, though admirable in itself, all history proves
to be a common characteristic of all nations--that `honour,' which the
country never possessed, is supposed to have been `saved'!"

All honour to the brave, truly, but when I remember the butcheries that
are admitted, by friend and foe of the Turk, to have been committed on
the Russian wounded by the army of Plevna (and which seem to have been
conveniently forgotten at this dramatic incident of the surrender),--
when I reflect on the frightful indifference of Osman Pasha to his own
wounded, and the equally horrible disregard of the same hapless wounded
by the Russians after they entered Plevna,--I cannot but feel that a
desperate amount of error is operating here, and that multitudes of
mankind, especially innocent, loving, and gentle mankind, to say nothing
of tender, enthusiastic, love-blinded womankind, are to some extent
deceived by the false ring of that which is not metal, and the falser
glitter of a tinsel which is anything but gold.

However, Osman did not come after all.  He had been wounded, and the
Russian generals were obliged to go to a neighbouring cottage to
transact the business of surrender.

As the cavalcade rode away in the direction of the cottage referred to,
a Russian surgeon turned aside to aid a wounded man.  He was a tall
strapping trooper.  His head rested on the leg of his horse, which lay
dead beside him.  He could not have been more than twenty years of age,
if so much.  He had carefully wrapped his cloak round him.  His carbine
and sabre were drawn close to his side, as if to protect the weapons
which it had always been his pride to keep bright and clean.  He was a
fresh handsome lad, with courage and loveableness equally stamped upon
his young brow.  He opened his eyes languidly as the doctor attended to
him.

"Come, my fine fellow, keep up your heart," said the doctor tenderly;
"you will perhaps--that is to say, the ambulance-wagons will be round
immediately, and--"

"Thank you," interrupted the trooper quietly, "God's blessing rest upon
you.  I know what you mean.--Look, sir."

He tried to take a locket from his neck as he spoke, but could not.  The
doctor gently assisted him.  "See," he said, "take this to Dobri
Petroff--the scout.  You know him?  Every one knows dashing Dobri!"

"I know him.  Well?"

"Tell him to give it to her--he knows who--and--and--say it has kept me
in--in heaven when sometimes it seemed to me as if I had got into hell."

"From whom?" asked the doctor, anxiously, as the youth's head sank
forward, and the terrible pallor of approaching death came on.

"From Andre--"

Alas! alas for Maria with the auburn hair!

The doctor rose.  His services were no longer needed.  Mounting his
horse, he rode away.

The ground over which he galloped was strewn with weapons.  The formal
surrender had been made, and each Turk, obeying literally the order to
lay down his arms, had deposited his rifle in the mud where he stood.

That night a faint light shone through the murky clouds, and dimly
illumined the grim battle-field.

It was deserted by all but the dead and dying, with now and then a
passing picket or fatigue-party.  As the night advanced, and the cold
became piercing, even these seemed to have finally retired from the
ghastly scene.  Towards morning the moon rose high, and, piercing the
clouds, at times lit up the whole battle-field.  Ah! there was many a
pale countenance turned wistfully on the moon that night, gazing at it
until the eyes became fixed in death.  There was one countenance, which,
deadly white, and gashed by a Turkish sabre, had been ruddy with young
life in the morning.  It was that of Nicholas Naranovitsch.  He lay on
his back near his dead horse, and close to a heap of slaughtered men.
He was so faint and so shattered by sabre-cuts and bullets as to be
utterly unable to move anything but his eyes.  Though almost in a state
of stupor, he retained sufficient consciousness to observe what went on
around him.  The night, or rather the early morning, had become very
still, but it was not silent, for deep sighs and low moanings, as of men
suffering from prolonged and weary pain, struck on his listening ear.
Now and then some wretch, unable to bear his misery, would make a
desperate effort to rise, only, however, to fall back with a sharp cry
or a deep-despairing groan.  Here and there a man might be seen creeping
a few paces on his hands and knees, and then dropping to rest for a
time, after which the creeping was resumed, in the vain hope, no doubt,
that some place of shelter or an ambulance might be reached at last.
One of these struggling men passed close to Nicholas, and stopped to
rest almost at his side.  In a few minutes he rose again, and attempted
to advance, but instead of doing so writhed in a hideous contortion over
on his back, and stretching himself with a convulsive shudder, died with
his teeth clenched and his protruding eyeballs glaring at the sky.

Suddenly a low sweet sound broke on Nicholas's ear.  It swelled
gradually, and was at length recognised as a hymn with which he had been
familiar in childhood.  Some dying Christian soldier near him had
apparently sought relief in singing praise to God.  Nicholas wept as he
listened.  He soon found that there were sympathetic listeners besides
himself, for the strains were taken up by one and another, and another,
until the hymn appeared to rise from all parts of the battle-field.  It
was faint, however, and tremulous, for the life-blood was draining
rapidly from the hearts of those who raised it.  Ere long it altogether
ceased.

For some time Nicholas had been aware that a wounded man was slowly
gasping out his life quite close to him, but, from the position in which
he lay, it was not possible to see more than his red fez.  Presently the
man made a powerful effort, raised himself on one elbow, and displayed
the ghastly black countenance of Hamed Pasha.  He looked unsteadily
round him for a moment, and then sank backward with a long-drawn sigh.

Close to him, under a heap of slain, Dobri Petroff himself lay.  For a
long time he was unconscious, and had been nearly crushed to death by
the weight of those above him.  But the life which had been so strong in
his huge body seemed to revive a little, and after a time he succeeded
in freeing himself from the load, and raising himself on his hands, but
he could not get up on his feet.  A wound in the neck, which had partly
closed while he was in a recumbent position, now burst out afresh.  He
looked at the blood with a faint sad smile, and sank down again.

Nicholas recognised him, and tried to speak, but he could neither speak
nor move.  It seemed to him that every part of his frame had been
paralysed except his brain and eyes.

Presently the scout felt for something at his side.  His flask was
there; putting it to his lips he drank a little and was evidently
refreshed, for he raised himself again and began to look about him.

Another moment and Petroff had discovered the Pasha, who lay near him
with a look of intense longing in his eyes as he saw the flask and heard
the gurgling water.  A fierce frown crossed the scout's brow for a
moment, but it was instantly chased away by a look of pity.  He dragged
himself slowly towards the dying Turk, and held the flask to his lips.

With a murmur of thankfulness and a look of gratitude at his late enemy,
the Pasha uttered a faint sigh and closed his eyes in the last long
sleep of death.

The effort to drag himself even a few paces served to show Petroff how
severely he had been wounded.  He was in the act of raising the flask to
his lips a second time, when Nicholas, by a desperate effort, succeeded
in uttering a low groan.

The scout turned quickly, observed his master, and crept to his side.

"Drink, sir," he said, knowing well that water was what Nicholas
required most at such a time.

The avidity with which the latter obeyed prevented him observing that
the scout was almost sinking.  The successive efforts he had made had
caused the blood to pour copiously from his wounds.

"You are badly hurt, Dobri, I fear," he said, when the life-giving
draught had sent new vigour into his frame, and loosed his tongue.

"Ay," replied the scout, with a faint smile.--"I shall soon be with you
now, Marika, and with the little ones and the dear Lord you loved so
well and tried so hard to make me follow too.  And you succeeded,
Marika, though you little th--"

He stopped abruptly, swayed a moment to and fro, then fell heavily
forward with his head on the bosom of his friend.

"Take some more water, Dobri," said Nicholas anxiously.  "Quick, before
you lose consciousness.  I have not power to move a limb to help you.--
Dobri!"

He called in vain,--the scout had fainted.

Nicholas had not power at first to remove the poor fellow's head from
his chest, and he felt as if he should be suffocated.  By degrees,
however, he managed to roll it slightly to one side, and, at the same
time, returning vigour enabled him to raise his right arm.  He observed
that his hand still grasped a revolver, but for some time he had no
power to unclasp it.  At last he succeeded, and raising Petroff's flask
with difficulty to his lips obtained another draught.

Just at that moment the moon, which had passed behind a dark cloud,
shone through an opening, and he saw three men not far off searching
among the dead.  He was about to call to them, but a thought occurred
and he restrained himself.

He was right; the three men, one of whom was habited like a priest, were
rifling the dead.  He saw them come up to a prostrate form which
struggled on being touched.  One of the three men instantly drew a knife
and stabbed the wounded man.  When they had searched the body and taken
from it what they required they came towards the spot where Nicholas
lay.

A feeling of horror came over him for a moment, but that seemed to give
him strength, for he instantly grasped his revolver.  Hoping, however
that they might pass without observing him, he shut his eyes and lay
quite still.

The three murderers drew near, talking in low tones, and seemed about to
pass, when one of them stopped.

"Here's a big-looking fellow whose boots will just fit me," he said,
stooping and seizing the scout's leg.

"There's an officer behind him," said the villain in the priest's dress;
"he will be more worth stripping."

Nicholas pointed his revolver full in the man's face and fired, but his
aim was unsteady.  He had missed.  Again he pulled the trigger, but it
had been the last shot.  The man sprang upon him.  The report, however,
had attracted the notice of a picket of Russian soldiers, who, well
aware of the deeds of foul villainy that are practised by the followers
of an army on battle-fields at night, immediately rushed up and secured
the three men.

"They are murderers," exclaimed Nicholas in reply to a question from the
sergeant in command.

"Lead them out," said the sergeant promptly.

The men were bound and set up in a row.

"Ready--present!"

A volley rang out in the night air, and three more corpses were added to
the death-roll of the day.

It was summary justice, but richly deserved.  Thereafter the soldiers
made a rough-and-ready stretcher of muskets, on which Nicholas, who had
fainted, was carefully laid and borne from the field.


CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

FAREWELL TO SANDA PASHA--A SCUFFLE, AND AN UNEXPECTED MEETING.

Some time after the events narrated in the last chapter I was seated in
an apartment of Sanda Pasha's residence in Adrianople, the Turkish city
next in importance to Constantinople.

My health had returned, and, although still somewhat weak, I felt
sufficiently strong to travel, and had once or twice urged my kind host,
who was fast recovering from his wound, to permit me, if possible, to
return to the Russian lines.  I had had from him, of course, a full
account of the fall of Plevna, and I had also learned from another
source that Nicholas had been desperately wounded; but the latter
information was a mere rumour, which only rendered me the more anxious
to get away.

The Pasha's chief secretary, who spoke Russian well, informed me at this
time of some of the doings of his countrymen in the city and
neighbourhood.  I could hardly credit him, but English "correspondents"
afterwards confirmed what he said.  The daily executions of Bulgarians
on the slightest pretexts, without trial, were at that time so numerous
that it seemed as if the Turks had determined to solve the question of
Bulgarian autonomy by killing or banishing every male in the province.
In one instance fifteen Bulgarian children, the youngest of whom was ten
years of age, and the eldest fifteen, were condemned to hard labour for
life.  It was said, but not proved I believe, that these young people
had committed murder and contributed to the insurrection.  At this time
there were over 20,000 refugees in Adrianople, all of whom were women
and children whose protectors had either been massacred or forced to
join the army.

The secretary evidently rejoiced in the slaying and otherwise getting
rid of Bulgarian men, but he seemed to have a slight feeling of
commiseration for the helpless refugees, among whom I had myself
witnessed the most heart-rending scenes of mental and physical
suffering.

Wherever I wandered about the town there were groups of these trembling
ones, on whose pallid faces were imprinted looks of maniacal horror or
of blank despair.  Little wonder!  Some of them had beheld the fathers,
brothers, lovers, around whom their heart-strings twined, tortured to
death before their eyes.  Others had seen their babes tossed on
spear-points and bayonets, while to all the future must have appeared a
fearful prospect of want and of dreary sighing for a touch of those
"vanished hands" that had passed from earth for ever.

"Philanthropic societies," said the secretary, "have done great things
for Turkey and for Russia too.  Had it not been for the timely aid sent
out by the charitable people in England and other countries, it is
certain that many thousands of these refugees would already have been in
their graves."

I did not like the tone or looks of this secretary.  He was an oily man,
with a touch of sarcasm.

"Doubtless there are many of them," I returned sharply, "who wish that
they had fallen with their kindred.  But you say truth: the
tender-hearted and liberal ones of England and elsewhere have done
something to mitigate the horrors of war, and yet there is a party among
us who would draw the sword, if they were allowed, and add to the number
of these wretched refugees.  A pretty spectacle of consistency, truly,
is presented by war!  If we English were to join the Turks, as of course
you wish us to do, and help you to maintain your misrule, to say nothing
of the massacres which have been and still are going on around us, we
should have to keep our philanthropic societies at work still longer,
and thus we should be seen cutting men down with one hand and binding
them up with the other,--roaring like fiends as we slaughter sires, and
at the same time, with the same voice, softly comforting widows and
fatherless children.  Oh, sir, if there is a phrase of mockery on the
face of this earth, it is the term `civilised warfare'!"

Before the secretary had time to reply the Pasha entered, accompanied by
Lancey.

"Mr Childers," said the Pasha, sitting down on a cushion beside me, "I
have managed it at last, though not without difficulty, but when a man
wants to help an old school-mate in distress he is not easily put down.
You have to thank Lancey for anything I have done for you.  There is, it
seems, to be an exchange of prisoners soon, and I have managed that you
and Lancey shall be among the number.  You must be ready to take the
road to-morrow."

I thanked the Pasha heartily, but expressed surprise that one in so
exalted a position should have found difficulty in the matter.

"Exalted!" he exclaimed, with a look of scorn, "I'm so exalted as to
have very narrowly missed having my head cut off.  Bah! there is no
gratitude in a Turk--at least in a Turkish grandee."

I ventured to suggest that the Pasha was in his own person a flat--or
rather sturdy--contradiction of his own words, but he only grinned as he
bowed, being too much in earnest to smile.

"Do you forget," he continued, "that I am in disgrace?  I have served
the Turk faithfully all my life, and now I am shelved at the very time
my services might be of use, because the Sultan is swayed by a set of
rascals who are jealous of me!  And is it not the same with better men
than myself?  Look at Mehemet Ali, our late commander-in-chief, deposed
from office by men who had not the power to judge of his capacities--for
what?  Did he not say with his own lips, to one of your own
correspondents, that although he had embraced the religion of Mohammed
they never could forget or forgive the fact that he was not born a Turk,
but regarded him as a Giaour in disguise; that his elevation to power
excited secret discontent among the Pashas, which I know to be true;
that another Pasha thwarted instead of aiding him, while yet another was
sent to act the spy on him.  Is not this shameful jealousy amongst our
leaders, at a time when all should have been united for the common weal,
well known to have operated disastrously in other cases?  Did not Osman
Pasha admit as much, when he complained bitterly, after the fall of
Plevna, that he had not been properly supported?  Our rank and file are
lions in the field--though I cannot allow that they are lambs anywhere
else--but as for our--Bah!  I have said enough.  Besides, to tell you
the truth, I am tired of the Turks, and hate them."

Here my servant interrupted the Pasha with a coolness and familiarity
that amused me much.

"Sandy," said he, with a disapproving shake of the head, "you oughtn't
to go an' speak like that of your hadopted nation."

The Pasha's indignation vanished at once.  He turned to Lancey with a
curious twinkle in his eye.

"But, my good fellow," he said, "it isn't my hadopted nation.  When I
came here a poor homeless wanderer the Turks adopted _me_, not I _them_,
because they found me useful."

"That," returned Lancey, "should 'ave called hout your gratitood."

"So it did, Lancey.  Didn't I serve them faithfully from that day to
this, to the best of my power, and didn't I shave my head and wear their
garb, and pretend to take to their religion all out of gratitude?"

"Worse and worse," retorted Lancey; "that was houtrageous 'ypocrisy.
I'm afraid, Sandy, that you're no better than you used to be w'en you
smashed the school-windows an' went about playin' truant on the Scottish
'ills."

"No better indeed," returned the Pasha, with a sudden touch of sadness;
"that is true, but how to become better is the difficulty.  Islamism
fills a land with injustice, robbery, and violence; while, in order that
such things may be put right, the same land is desolated, covered with
blood, and filled with lamentation, in the name of Christianity."

Here I could not refrain from reminding the Pasha that the professors of
religion did not always act in accordance with their profession, and
that the principles of the "Prince of Peace," when carried out, even
with average sincerity, had an invariable tendency to encourage peace
and good-will among men, which was more than could be said of the
doctrines of Mohammed.

"It may be so," said the Pasha, with a sigh.

"Meanwhile, to return to our point, you will find everything ready for
your journey at an early hour to-morrow."

"But what of little Ivanka Petroff?"  I asked.  "She must go with us."

The Pasha seemed a little perplexed.  "I had not thought of that," he
said; "she will be well-cared for here."

"I cannot go without her," said I firmly.

"No more can I," said Lancey.

"Well, that shall also be arranged," returned the Pasha, as he left us.

"Never saw nothink like 'im," observed Lancey; "'e sticks at nothink,
believes nothink, cares for nothink, an' can do hanythink."

"_You_ are showing want of gratitude now, Lancey, for it is plain that
he cares a good deal for you."

Lancey admitted that he might, perhaps, have been a little harsh in
expressing himself, and then went off to prepare for the journey.

"We are going back again to your own country, Ivanka," said I, gently
stroking the child's head, as we sat together in the same room, some
hours later.

Ivanka raised her large eyes to mine.

"There is no _home_ now," she said, in a mournful voice.

"But we shall find father there, perhaps."

The child dropped her eyes, and shook her head, but made no further
remark.  I saw that tears were trickling down her cheeks, and, feeling
uncertain as to how far she realised her forlorn condition, refrained
from further speech, and drew her little head upon my breast, while I
sought to comfort her with hopes of soon meeting her father.

Snow lay on the ground when we bade farewell to our kind host.
"Good-bye, Sanda Pasha; I shall hope to see you in England one of these
days," said I at parting.

"Farewell, Sandy," said my man, grasping the Pasha's hand warmly, and
speaking in a deeply impressive tone; "take the advice of a wery old
friend, who 'as your welfare at 'art, an' leave off your evil ways,
w'ich it's not possible for you to do w'ile you've got fifty wives, more
or less, shaves your 'ead like a Turk, and hacts the part of a
'ypocrite.  Come back to your own land, my friend, w'ich is the only one
I knows on worth livin' in, an' dress yourself like a Christian."

The Pasha laughed, returned the squeeze heartily, and said that it was
highly probable he would act upon that advice ere another year had
passed away.

Half an hour later we were driving over the white plains, on which the
sun shone with dazzling light.

I felt unusual exhilaration as we rattled along in the fresh frosty air,
and crossed the fields, which, with the silvered trees and bushes,
contrasted so pleasantly with the clear blue sky.  I began to feel as if
the horrible scenes I had lately witnessed were but the effects of a
disordered imagination, which had passed away with fever and bodily
weakness.

Ivanka also appeared to revive under those genial influences with which
God surrounds His creatures, for she prattled a little now and then
about things which attracted her attention on the road; but she never
referred to the past.  Lancey, too, was inspirited to such an extent
that he tackled the Turkish driver in his own tongue, and caused the
eyes of that taciturn individual occasionally to twinkle, and his
moustache to curl upwards.

That night we slept at a small road-side inn.  _ Said _vuestra daughter
and can not imitate. Surprised when my dear husband, I was exhausted
tears. Consider what would be my sadness! _ Doña Juana had reached the
last degree of madness, was entirely crazy, but without However
the owner was the queen of Spain and his name and consent were
necessary to give some character to the acts of government.

This consideration prompted the Catholic king to enter consultations
with his daughter for the better settlement of business and back again
to govern the domain of Spain. Doña Juana, for her part, admitted
without any reply soon proposed his father, putting only one
condition, that they had to leave to stay in the village of Arcos'
_en complete freedom, without having to intervene in another business,
to pass the the remaining days of this life, next to the body of
your esposo._ "a lot of work to make this change of thought, but
it is all useless was granted permission by sending a ready home
in Arcos, dignity of the person who would live.

More than a year and a half Doña Juana lived in the village of Arcos without
any improvement in all his madness.

Was seen, by some lively discussions this unhappy lady, had the corpse
of her husband, who talks more than madness, and that instead of
alleviating it, the worse. "_Por Do not respondeis me, Philip? _ He said:
_callais! ... You will still me !..._» These words PROFERI unfaithful
to her husband, and others that cause shame to hear. From Santa Maria del
Campo wrote D. Ferdinand to his daughter, warning of the need I had to
leave at Tordesillas and making healthy population know was that
the town of Arcos, and therefore had determined, was put off to
this point.

Doña Juana, was perfect, as the answer in Arcos. So watching the Catholic
king that his daughter did not accede to their entreaties made the
decision to go looking for it to see if their presence is able to
accompany Tordesillas. It did so Fernando has been with the influence
exerted over her daughter goes to make that point, but traveling with
the same device as in the other espediciones. Be the temperament have
moved, so the trip was not to their liking, the fact is that the Queen
Doña Juana was becoming more furious, and took further increase its
already incurable disease. Luis Ferrer was the elder who was in charge
of Doña Juana care, and which we could not see why there was a huge
opposition to everything that the charge did, glad to run the other
way around.

If asked, for example, slept in his bed, did so on the ground, if
available to move to another room but decent and well ventilated
but closed with the force of the bolts that was.

When it was cold, discard skins and objects that provide shelter,
and the more appeal Luis Ferrer asease dresses and with more effort
went dirty and badly dressed.

Shortly after, he was the head of the mania did not eat or drink, and
had occasion to pass three days without taking anything, until beset
by hunger, took something, and endeavor to send the dishes where
you do not leave food of the room, so that these objects soiled
with others, gave an unbearable smell of that house, it is therefore
impossible to endure.

Moments after that there was a great delusion, had a reason, and regretted
that they had started the crown of his temples, and not content with a
kidnapping their enemies in this genre, had buried in a dungeon and
guarded so heinous by a jailer so despicable.

"These words came with lightning speed in the ears of Catholic D.
Fernando, so the following year of 1510, when they went to the Courts
of Monzon, did visit and made sure everything was assembled a great council
to discuss the method to be observed in proceeding with his daughter
because they knew that the presence of D. The long-Luis Ferrer, left
the board, after having provided that all necessary toiletries,
clothes and food, would be elected twelve ladies to watch it
continuously, and each one will be a sleepless night to force her
to dress, strip shirt and move, even against their will.

Twenty days was accompanying the King Catholic Doña Juana, which was
fair enough, but then it is obliged to implement the agreement by
his father, seized it a rage so great that no one could stay at his
side.

The doctors,
however, had pronounced him at last out of danger.  His sound
constitution and great strength had enabled him to survive injuries
which would have carried off most men in a few days or hours.  His whole
frame had been shattered; his handsome face dreadfully disfigured, his
left hand carried away, and his right foot so grievously crushed by a
gun-carriage passing over it that they had been obliged to amputate the
leg below the knee.  For a long time he had lain balancing between life
and death, and when he recovered sufficiently to be moved had been taken
by rail to Switzerland.  He had given strict orders that no one should
be allowed to write to his friends in England, but had asked very
anxiously after me.

Biquitous gave me a great many more particulars, but this was the gist
of his sad news.  He also told me of the fall of Dobri Petroff.

"Nicholas had fainted, as I told you," he said, "just before the picket
by which he had been rescued lifted him from the ground, and he was
greatly distressed, on recovering, to find that his faithful follower
had been left behind.  Although he believed him to be dead, he
immediately expressed an earnest wish that men should be sent to look
for and recover the body.  They promised that this should be done, but
he never learned whether or not they had been successful."

"And you don't know the name of the place in Switzerland to which
Nicholas has been sent?"  I asked.

"Not sure, but I think it was Montreux, on the Lake of Geneva."

After all this sad news I found it impossible to enjoy the society of my
eccentric friend, and much though I liked him, resolved to leave the
place at once and make arrangements to quit the country.

I therefore bade him farewell, and hastened back to the inn where I had
left Ivanka and Lancey.

The grief of the dear child, on hearing that her father had fallen on
the battle-field, was for a time uncontrollable.  When it had abated, I
said:--

"There is no one here to love you now, my little darling, but God still
loves you, and, you see, has sent me and Lancey to take care of you.--
Come, we will return to Venilik."

I did not dare at this time to raise hopes, which might soon be dashed
to pieces, in the heart of the poor forlorn child, and therefore did not
say all that was in my mind; but my object in returning to Venilik was
to make inquiry after her mother.  My own hopes were not strong, but I
did not feel satisfied that we had obtained sufficient proof that Marika
had been killed.

Our search and inquiries, however, were vain.  Venilik was almost
deserted.  No one could tell anything about the Petroff family that we
did not already know.  It was certainly known that many persons--men and
women--had fled to the neighbouring woods, and that some had escaped,
but it was generally believed that Marika had been burnt in her own
cottage.  No doubt, however, was entertained as to the fate of her
little boy; for there were several people who had seen him thrust
through and held aloft on the point of a Circassian spear.  When I told
of Dobri Petroff having fallen by the side of Nicholas, several of the
villagers said they had heard of that from other sources.

As nothing further could be done, I resolved to adopt Ivanka, and take
her away with me.

My preparations were soon made, a conveyance was obtained, and before
many days were over I found myself flying by road and rail far from the
land where war still raged, where the fair face of nature had been so
terribly disfigured by human wrath--so fearfully oppressed with human
woe.


CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

DESCRIBES A WRECK, AND THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE.

A Swiss chalet on a woody knoll, high up on the grand slopes that bathe
their feet in the beautiful Lake of Geneva.

It is evening--a bright winter evening--with a golden glory in the sky
which reminds one powerfully of summer, and suggests the advent of
spring.

In the neighbouring town of Montreux there are busy people engaged in
the labours of the day.  There are also idlers endeavouring to "kill"
the little span of time that has been given them, in which to do their
quota of duty on the earth.  So, also, there are riotous young people
who are actively fulfilling their duty by going off to skate, or slide
down the snow-clad hills, after the severer duties connected with book
and slate have been accomplished.  These young rioters are aided and
abetted by sundry persons of maturer years, who, having already finished
the more important labours of the day of life, renew their own youth,
and encourage the youngsters by joining them.

Besides these there are a few cripples who have been sent into the world
with deficient or defective limbs--doubtless for wise and merciful ends.
Merciful I say advisedly, for, "shall not the Judge of all the earth do
right?"  These look on and rejoice, perchance, in the joy of the
juveniles.

Among them, however, are some cripples of a very different stamp.  The
Creator sent these into the world with broad shoulders, deep chests,
good looks, gladsome spirits, manly frames, and vigorous wills.  War has
sent them here--still in young manhood--with the deep chests pierced by
bullets or gashed by sabres, with the manly frames reduced to skeletons,
the gladsome spirits gone, the ruddy cheeks hollow and wan, and the
vigorous wills--subdued _at last_.

A few of these young cripples move slowly about with the aid of stick or
crutch, trying to regain, in the genial mountain air, some of the old
fire which has sunk so low--so very low.  Others, seated in
wheel-chairs, doubled up like old, old men, are pushed about from point
to point by stalwart mountaineers, while beside them walk sisters,
mothers, or, perchance, young wives, whose cheery smiles and lightsome
voices, as they point out and refer to the surrounding objects of
nature, cannot quite conceal the feelings of profound and bitter sorrow
with which they think of the glorious manhood that has been lost, or the
tender, pitiful, heart-breaking solicitude with which they cherish the
poor shadow that remains.

In a large airy apartment of the chalet on the woody knoll, there is one
who occupies a still lower level than those to whom we have just
referred--who cannot yet use the crutch or sit in the wheelchair, and on
whose ear the sounds of glee that enter by the open window fall with
little effect.

He reclines at full length on a bed.  He has lain thus, with little
effort to move, and much pain when such effort was made, for many weary
weeks.  Only one side of his face is visible, and that is scarred and
torn with wounds, some of which are not yet healed.  The other side is
covered with bandages.

I am seated by his side, Ivanka is sitting opposite, near to the
invalid's feet, listening intently, if I may be allowed to say so, with
her large black eyes, to a conversation which she cannot understand.

"You must not take so gloomy a view of your case, Nicholas.  The doctors
say you will recover, and, my good fellow, you have no idea what can be
done by surgery in the way of putting a man together again after a
break-down.  Bella would be grieved beyond measure if I were to write as
you wish."

I spoke cheerily, more because I felt it to be a duty to do so, than
because I had much hope.

The invalid paused for a few minutes as if to recover strength.  Then he
said--

"Jeff, I insist on your doing what I wish.  It is unkind of you to drag
me into a dispute when I am so weak.  Tell the dear girl that I give her
up--I release her from our engagement.  It is likely that I shall die at
any rate, which will settle the question, but if I do recover--why, just
think, my dear fellow, I put it to you, what sort of husband should I
make, with my ribs all smashed, my right leg cut off, my left hand
destroyed, an eye gone, and my whole visage cut to pieces.  No, Jeff--"

He paused; the light vein of humour which he had tried to assume passed
off, and there was a twitching about the muscles of his mouth as he
resumed--

"No, Bella must never see me again."

Ivanka looked from the invalid's face to mine with eyes so earnest,
piercing, and inquiring, that I felt grieved she did not understand us.

"I'm sorry, Nicholas, very sorry," said I, "but Bella has already been
written to, and will certainly be here in a day or two.  I could not
know your state of mind on my first arrival, and, acting as I fancied
for the best, I wrote to her."

Nicholas moved uneasily, and I observed a deep flush on his face, but he
did not speak.

That evening Ivanka put her arms round my neck, told me she loved
Nicholas because of his kindness to her father, and besought me
earnestly to tell her what had passed between us.

A good deal amused, I told her as much as I thought she could
understand.

"Oh!  I should so like to see Bella," she said.

"So you shall, dear, when she comes."

"Does she speak Russian?"

"Yes.  She has been several times in Russia, and understands the
language well."

As I had predicted, Bella arrived a few days after receiving my letter.
My mother accompanied her.

"Oh, Jeff, this is dreadful!" said my poor mother, as she untied her
bonnet-strings, and sat down on the sofa beside Bella, who could not for
some time utter a word.

"What child is that?" added my mother quickly, observing Ivanka.

"It is the daughter of Dobri Petroff.--Let me introduce you, Ivanka, to
my mother, and to my sister Bella--you know Bella?"

I had of course written to them a good deal about the poor child, and
Bella had already formed an attachment to her in imagination.  She
started up on hearing Ivanka's name, and held out both hands.  The child
ran to her as naturally as the needle turns to the pole.

While my mother and I were talking in a low tone about Nicholas, I could
not avoid hearing parts of a conversation between my sister and Ivanka
that surprised me much.

"Yes, oh! yes, I am quite sure of it.  Your brother told me that he said
he would never, never, never be so wicked as to let you come and see
him, although he loved you so much that he--"

"Hush, my dear child, not so loud."

Bella's whisper died away, and Ivanka resumed--

"_Yes_, he said there was almost nothing of him left.  He was joking,
you know, when he said that, but it is not so much of a joke after all,
for I saw--"

"Oh! hush, dear, hush; tell me what he said, and speak lower."

Ivanka spoke so low that I heard no more, but what had reached my ear
was sufficient to let me know how the current ran, and I was not sorry
that poor Bella's mind should be prepared for the terrible reality in
this way.

The battle of love was fought and won that day at Nicholas's bedside,
and, as usual, woman was victorious.

I shall not weary the reader with all that was said.  The concluding
sentences will suffice.

"No, Nicholas," said Bella, holding the right hand of the wounded
soldier, while my mother looked on with tearful, and Ivanka with eager,
eyes, "no, I will not be discarded.  You must not presume, on the
strength of your being weak, to talk nonsense.  I hold you, sir, to your
engagement, unless, indeed, you admit yourself to be a faithless man,
and wish to cast me off.  But you must not dispute with me in your
present condition.  I shall exercise the right of a wife by ordering you
to hold your tongue unless you drop the subject.  The doctor says you
must not be allowed to talk or excite yourself, and the doctor's orders,
you know, must be obeyed."

"Even if he should order a shattered man to renounce all thoughts of
marriage?" asked Nicholas.

"If he were to do that," retorted Bella, with a smile, "I should
consider your case a serious one, and require a consultation with at
least two other doctors before agreeing to submit to his orders.  Now,
the question is settled, so we will say no more about it.  Meanwhile you
need careful nursing, and mother and I are here to attend upon you."

Thus with gentle raillery she led the poor fellow to entertain a faint
hope that recovery might be possible, and that the future might not be
so appallingly black as it had seemed before.  Still the hope was
extremely faint at first, for no one knew so well as himself what a
wreck he was, and how impossible it would be for him, under the most
favourable circumstances, ever again to stand up and look like his
former self.  Poor Bella had to force her pleasantry and her lightsome
tones, for she also had fears that he might still succumb, but, being
convinced that a cheerful, hopeful state of mind was the best of all
medicines, she set herself to administer it in strong doses.

The result was that Nicholas began to recover rapidly.  Time passed, and
by slow degrees he migrated from his bed to the sofa.  Then a few of his
garments were put on, and he tried to stand on his remaining leg.  The
doctor, who assisted me in moving and dressing the poor invalid,
comforted him with the assurance that the stump of the other would, in
course of time, be well enough to have a cork foot and ankle attached to
it.

"And do you know," he added, with a smile, "they make these things so
well now that one can scarcely tell a false foot from a real one,--with
joint and moveable instep, and toes that work with springs, so that
people can walk with them quite creditably--indeed they can; I do not
jest, I assure you."

"Nothing, however, can replace the left hand or the lost eye," returned
Nicholas, with a faint attempt at a smile.

"There, my dear sir," returned the doctor, with animation, "you are
quite wrong.  The eye, indeed, can never be restored, though it will
partially close, and become so familiar to you and your friends that it
will almost cease to be noticed or remembered; but we shall have a stump
made for the lower arm, with a socket to which you will be able to fix a
fork or a spoon, or--"

"Why, doctor," interrupted Nicholas, "what a spoon _you_ must be to--"

"Come," returned the doctor heartily, "that'll do.  My services won't be
required here much longer I see, for I invariably find that when a
patient begins to make bad jokes, there is nothing far wrong with him."

One morning, when we had dressed our invalid, and laid him on the sofa,
he and I chanced to be left alone.

"Come here, Jeff," he said, "assist me to the glass--I want to have a
look at myself."

It was the first time he had expressed such a desire, and I hesitated
for a moment, not feeling sure of the effect that the sight might have
on him.  Then I went to him, and only remarking in a quiet tone, "You'll
improve, you know, in the course of time," I led him to the
looking-glass.

He turned slightly pale, and a look of blank surprise flitted across his
face, but he recovered instantly, and stood for a few seconds surveying
himself with a sad expression.

[Illustration] THE HISTORY OF SPAIN CELEBRATE QUEEN OF DOÑA JUANA, LA
LOCA CALL VERNACULAR. Madrid. PRINTING OF D. JOSÉ MARIA MARES,
Corredera Baja de San Pablo, Vol. 27. 1848. * * * * * CHAPTER FIRST. _De
What were the parents of Queen Juana la Loca, and the things that went
into its palacio._ [Illustration] Don Fernando and Doña Isabel, and
never well-known weighted Catholic kings, occupied the thrones of Aragon
and Castile, giving an example of morality and wisdom to all his
court, and being highly estimated, not only by the aristocracy of
his time, but also by all his subjects.

Regimes are very grateful to the husbands show them affection they lavish
continually, could not expressly recognition of a more worthy because
they were not monarchs desdoraban vassal that any coach would stop, even
in public places and crowded, so pay attention to what I wanted to say.
However this has always been known, according to historians, not
to miss the Palace ever between those disagreements and common
hablillas, daughters of envy.

No evidence to characterize this more true than the tape and found
that the Queen Isabel the Catholic, began spreading several characters,
among whom was D.

Enrique de Villena, who hoped that the succession could not be a bastard,
and this is deducted from the various scenes he had witnessed in the
palace. Yet to be D. Fernando so proactive, and to inspect both
the things that were annexed, it appears that these voices took
on the vague, and not cared for each other is that the characters
attributed to indolence D.

Fernando at this point, fear or the love professed escesivo Doña Isabel,
which join the links of a wife, being the granddaughter of his brother.
Miras individuals carried Villena and others by the common people to
disseminate such voices, but that view was later discovered by those who
sold more friendship, verbally declaring sovereign projects designed
by them, and showing in writing that it had intercepted correspondence
addressed to D. John of Portugal, to which D. replied immediately
Fernando sent by your business, Lope de Alburquerque. No Don Juan
of Portugal wanted to hear the messenger of Castile, and having come
to know very soon D. Fernando, anger mounted in such a way that nobody
dared to speak a word. Sought to postpone for a few moments of anger, but
it was all in vain, that threatened their opponents haria understand
what it deserves the grievance to the king of Castile, and show
how great were his forces against those who angered him.

Nor were enough to appease their anger to the pleas of his brother D.

Pedro de Acuña, Count of Buendia, who protested were not so terribly
irritated, perhaps one fabricated news, as could be, was the occasion
of ludibrio and imprecations that went without distinction relatives
and friends. Only to warnings of a personage who was shut out of respect,
was giving place to the King Fernando. Granger knew this character
was his love for his beautiful quality, it was flattering to all, leading
with his words fill the breast of the monarch increasingly passion.
Even Queen Elizabeth was the same on many occasions that use this
bookmark to talk to your real husband.

The incident took place in the imperial palace of Toledo, where she
gave birth the Queen Elizabeth, on 6 November 1479, the princess
Doña Juana de Castilla, much like his grandmother Doña Juana, wife
of D.

John III of Aragon, as the author of _las Queens Católicas_. The name
of Doña Juana is one of the monarchs who long for more time in
Spain have been at the forefront of real documents and orders, and
yet we can say that rarely, or in any better, the fans took part
in the work provided by your high gerarquia.

This kind of weariness to the destination hard to be exercised at
the age required by law, it grew over the years, on the contrary,
all devoted to the task of their own sex, but embraced with joy
unspeakable so is that still young, was the admiration of those who
heard and watched their entertainment.

This can add that his name was no more than a way to publicize that
the heir to the throne of Castile exist.

When a few years after his famous son, Charles V took the reins of
government in Spain, the usual impossibility of her mother, observed
the same method, either because they are arranged in several Estates of
the realm, either because she was in fact the sovereign and pray for
respect and attention, knowing as he did by giving the states in
his son Philip, who called for would retain the name of his uninjured
hapless grandmother at the head of public affairs, not to cause
discontent.

Fifty years kept this sovereign the title of queen of Spain, despite
failing to run even a single day, such was the mental enagenacion
poseida that was caused by the powerful and well-founded reasons that
Iran was later known. The memorable D. Francisco Jimenez de Cisneros and
the king Don Fernando, ordered as governors for the younger age of
Charles V, was not made public the inadequacy of Doña Juana,
despite being strongly convinced of their disability so that by many
and repeated efforts they made some declare invalid, we fail, and
that nothing that hampered them, ever since they did not suffered
in his will for any of the acts of government.

His reasoning was extremely troubled by impulses a lawful and vehement
passion for this cause was the cruel life of a prisoner trapped, and
if you ever felt resentment of their precarious fate was followed to
promote itself with the plight of his ardent imagination, believing that
it might commit a contempt order against their more tender adorations.
Here is the reason why his name as an enlightened, has barely figured in
the political concept in the vast catalog of the Spanish sovereign,
and therefore it is entirely void. But despite everything, there was
this noble and powerful nation, the daughter of the great kings
Catholics D.

Ferdinand and Queen Isabella, and mother of the noble and brave
Emperor Charles V, so that the details of his private life, the
reasons why it occurred his dementia, and the foundation that is
called the Mad, can not but Scythian curiosity, and with double
cause, because one can look at this sovereign, as in the sad mirror
of the deadly results that the violent passions have brought Estremo,
unless it is modified and suppress the right.

Provided a Doña Juana no common talent of a strong and ardent imagination,
he was educated in a vulgar manner to that time: and especially in the
Greco-Roman language, made admirable progress so that talked with a
charming ease.

The scientist claims that Luis Vives of any material to be treated in this
language, as if it were suddenly answered in Castilian. These linked the
qualities of a slender figure and much interest was the type of beauty,
full of grace and dignity: their large eyes, and expressly ragged,
denoted the rare talent and energy of his soul, which accompanied
the dignified and elegant manners of the court of Elizabeth, paragon
of virtue and morality.

All these great circumstances, together with the power of their
parents, to Doña Juana one of those matches for any gifted young
prince of Europe.

These were in the same circumstances a creditor Infanta to be idolaters,
even for those who do not have the pleasure and honor to admire. Evidence
that it did not take long to see what some princes who could be was the
owner of this jewel of inestimable value. D. Fernando and Isabel did
not want to either extend your wedding, so counting only fifteen years,
ie in 1494, adjusted to the desired wedding D.

Philip, Archduke of Austria, Duke of Flanders, Artois and the Tyrol, and
son the Emperor of Germany, Maximilian I. Were adjusted, he will instantly
start to progress with the preparations for the pomp and solemnity
worthy of the daughter of so powerful lords.

One hundred and twenty armed vessels of high board will be provided at
the port of Laredo, embarking on her fifteen thousand men of war,
including the crew. A Don Alonso Enriquez, great admiral of Castile,
was given command of the fleet: D. went higher Chaplain Diego de
Villaescusa, dean of Jaen, and commissioned by the king to serve
and stand on the immediate command of the Infanta, was Doña Teresa
de Velasco, the wife of the Admiral who led that espedicion.

The camera and all the places belonging to his person, was served
by ladies and gentlemen of the first nobility of Spain, so it says
in the lists of them form D.

Lorenzo de Padilla. Is useless to mention the clothes and jewelry that
were decorated by princess augusta so: you can say for short that had
been prepared with elegance and profusion. Completed the preparations,
he went all the real Almazan family to the port of Laredo, to
dismiss such escelsa Infanta, skeptical D.

King Fernando found that by conducting cutting Aragon, was unable to
verify, despite his. The late Prince D. John, the brother of Doña Juana
and her mother accompanied her augusta to the entrance of the ship,
where he drowned in a sea of tears, gave each other the most tender
and loving God. A God that resonated for all angles of the boat, as a
sign of appreciation for the real people who were on shore. Day August
19 1496 were to sail in the direction of the flamingos.

No setback had been noticed, anything that had come to disturb the
tranquility of the famous traveler acurrido had to touch the shores of
Flanders, where he built a very stormy time, they were compelled to
shelter at the first point of salvacion found. Great was the sorrow
of seeing Doña Juana in imminent danger as her life, but God could
arrive at the port of Toorlan in England, after having walked on
average more than two hours, struggling with the rough waves a
moment any more immersed in the depths of the seas. Remained in this town
seven days, during which he was presented by the Infanta very
ladies and gentlemen of that country leading to Presure went to
kiss her hand and together to offer their services.

CHAPTER II. _De How married Dona Juana, the children and other matters
that had the greatest interés._ [Illustration] When he had calmed the
storm, arranged the trip to Flanders, and on September 8 landed in
the bay of Ramna, port situated on the outskirts of Holland, without
further contrast jewelry that had disappeared several high value
of the princess because the ship which was grounded in his bedroom
a bank called the Monge site quite dangerous.

The prince who went to heaven husband of Doña Juana, then lived in a
sumptuous palace Lande, people of the Tyrol, but ascertained the promised
coming of his face, left it, going as fast Liege, where he had the
pleasure Admire the beauty of the Infanta, after having waited
impatiently for thirteen days in this city.

He immediately launched the marriage having been given the blessings D.
Diego de Villaescusa, Dean of Jaen. Practiced with the greatest solemnity
and magnificence of the ceremonies usual, came to Antwerp, and
from there to Brussels, where they were full of congratulations and
where they had prepared for his arrival the people of this province
many festivals, of which the young couple were enjoying a long time.

Such was the entertainment provided by the people of Brussels, which
some authors claim, he heard more than once said to Philip, who
gladly would point his residence this capital.

It is common opinion that D. Felipe was an arrogant figure, handsome
knight and a close friend of wear esplendidez. Añádese this a friendly
character, for which we all appreciated.

These were the qualities that Granger's reputation _Hermoso_. The Infanta
Doña Juana, was by contrast Estremé and strong, but nevertheless,
seized it as a passion vehementísima that from the moment they saw
him loved him with blind idolatry.

The affection of Doña Juana to Philip the Fair is growing every
day, by the way of life they observed, and the good behavior of the
archduke, who, as young, not thinking about anything else that
delights in the well is continuing tournaments in progress, Sarah
and other entertainment, which grew more passion for his young wife,
with the gallantry and skill in his arms Felipe.

Her husband was the subject of his worshipers, he had placed in his heart
and lived only for him, the young archduke paid Doña Juana that fond
of all the warmth of her young age, and the ways of a gallant prince,
so that the Infanta was one of those people who are happy, and much
more when he noted that would soon become a mother.

It's time you left for Flanders after some time, which gave birth to
Queen Juana on November 15 1498 Doña Leonor, then continuing through
unscathed in both his love and not ceasing to be a good example of
ones spouse. Despite the fact that although it had not been so, just
enough possession of the fruits of their marriage that had taken over
his increasing affection Super. It was the best states for its success
have been born female, but, as they were parents dear , was the cherished
daughter. Two years later, the year of 1500, marched to Ghent, where the
day February 21 had a son, who nominated Charles, then known around
the world for their fame and power.

Great was the joy that was painted on the faces of the residents of
those states, each striving which expressly the joy experienced
by the heir prince.

Were also innumerable festivals with such a solemn occasion were implemented,
and would therefore raise the cause of excerpts from the story to an
immense height. Starting from this era and Doña Juana relapse into
despair because since fortune seemed tilt for all newborn began to
wane as bonesetter happiness of the mother of Emperor Charles V. The
misfortune came to snatch the life in the year of 1500 in late July to
D. Infante Michael, son of King D. John of Portugal, last rod in the
male line of the Catholic Monarchs D.

Fernando and Queen Isabel, therefore rests the crown of Spain, the mother
of Doña Leonor, and D. Carlos. D. Fernando and Queen Isabel
immediately called Don Juan de Fonseca, bishop of Cordova, and intimate
the order to move rapidly to Flanders for the Archduke knew of
this event, for which I congratulate them on their real names, and
make known the urgent need for preparing your trip to Spain, and
then waited anxiously to be sworn as princes of this great nation,
that Heaven had deigned to stop by only heirs.

"Well, I don't see why I should not tell you, mother, that there _is_ a
charming little woman--the very best woman in the world--who has
expressed herself willing to--you understand?"

"Yes, I understand."

Reader, I would gladly make a confidant of yourself in this matter, and
tell you all about this charming little woman, if it were not for the
fact that she is standing at my elbow at this very minute, causing me to
make blots, and telling me not to write nonsense!

Before dismissing U. Biquitous, I may as well introduce here the last
meeting I had with him.  It was a considerable time after the war was
over--after the "Congress" had closed its labours, and my friend had
settled--if such a term could be applied to one who never settled--near
London.  Nicholas and I were sitting in a bower at the end of our
garden, conversing on the war which had been happily brought to a close.
Bella and my mother were seated opposite to us, the latter knitting a
piece of worsted-work, the size of whose stitches and needles was suited
to the weakness of her eyes, and the former busy with a pencil sketch of
the superb view of undulating woodland which stretched away for miles in
front of our house.

"No doubt it is as you state, Jeff," said Nicholas, in reply to my last
remark; "war is a miserable method of settling a dispute, quite unworthy
of civilised, to say nothing of Christian, men; but, then, how are we to
get along without it?  It's of no use saying that an evil must be put
down--put a stop to--until you are able to show _how_ it is to be
stopped."

"That does not follow," said I, quickly; "it may be quite possible for
me to see, point out, and condemn an evil although I cannot suggest a
remedy and my earnest remonstrances regarding it may be useful in the
way of helping to raise a general outcry of condemnation, which may have
the effect of turning more capable minds than my own to the devising of
a remedy.  Sea-sickness is a horrible malady; I perceive it, I know it
to be so.  I loudly draw attention to the fact; I won't be silenced.
Hundreds, thousands, of other miserables take heart and join me.  We
can't stand it! we shan't! is the general cry.  The attention of an able
engineer is attracted by the noise we make, and the _Calais-Douvre_
steamboat springs into being, a vessel which is supposed to render
sea-sickness an impossibility.  Whether it accomplishes this end or not
is beside the question.  The point is, that, by the vigorous use of our
tongues and pens in condemnation of an admitted evil, we have drawn
forth a vigorous _attempt_ to get the better of it."

"But you don't expect to do away with war altogether?" said Nicholas.

"Certainly not; I am not mad, I am only hopeful.  As long as sin reigns
in this world we shall have more or less of war, and I don't expect
universal peace until the Prince of Peace reigns.  Nevertheless, it is
my duty to `seek peace,' and in every way to promote it."

"Come, now, let us have this matter out," said Nicholas, lighting a
cigar.

"You are as fond of argument as a Scotsman, Nic," murmured Bella,
putting a powerful touch in the foreground of her sketch.

"Suppose, now," continued Nicholas, "that you had the power to influence
nations, what would you suggest instead of war?"

"Arbitration," said I, promptly; "I would have the nations of Europe to
band together and agree _never_ to fight but _always_ to appeal to
reason, in the settlement of disputes.  I would have them reduce
standing armies to the condition of peace establishments--that is, just
enough to garrison our strongholds, and be ready to back up our police
in keeping ruffians in order.  This small army would form a nucleus
round which the young men of the nation would rally in the event of
_unavoidable_ war."

"Ha!" exclaimed Nicholas, with a smile of sarcasm, "you would then have
us all disarm, beat our swords into reaping-hooks, and melt our bayonets
and cannon into pots and pans.  A charming idea!  Now, suppose there was
one of the nations--say Russia or Turkey--that declined to join this
peaceful alliance, and, when she saw England in her disarmed condition,
took it into her head to pay off old scores, and sent ironclads and
thousands of well-trained and well-appointed troops to invade you, what
would you do?"

"Defend myself," said I.

"What! with your peace-nucleus, surrounded by your rabble of untrained
young men?"

"Nicholas," said my mother, in a mild voice, pausing in her work, "you
may be as fond of argument as a Scotsman, but you are not quite as fair.
You have put into Jeff's mouth sentiments which he did not express, and
made assumptions which his words do not warrant.  He made no reference
to swords, reaping-hooks, bayonets, cannon, pots or pans, and did not
recommend that the young men of nations should remain untrained."

"Bravo! mother; thank you," said I, as the dear old creature dropped her
mild eyes once more on her work; "you have done me nothing but justice.
There is one point, however, on which I and those who are opposed to me
coincide exactly; it is this, that the best way to maintain peace is to
make yourself thoroughly capable and ready for war."

"With your peculiar views, that would be rather difficult, I should
fancy," said Nicholas, with a puzzled look.

"You fancy so, because you misunderstand my views," said I; "besides, I
have not yet fully explained them--but here comes one who will explain
them better than I can do myself."

As I spoke a man was seen to approach, with a smart free-and-easy air.

"It is my friend U. Biquitous," said I, rising and hastening to meet
him.

"Ah, Jeff, my boy, glad I've found you all together," cried my friend,
wringing my hand and raising his hat to the ladies.  "Just come over to
say good-bye.  I'm engaged again on the _Evergreen Isle_--same salary
and privileges as before--freer scope, if possible, than ever."

"And where are you going to, Mr Biquitous?" asked my mother.

"To Cyprus, madam,--the land of the--of the--the something or other; not
got coached up yet, but you shall have it all _in extenso_ ere long in
the _Evergreen_, with sketches of the scenery and natives.  I'll order a
copy to be sent you."

"Very kind, thank you," said my mother; "you are fond of travelling, I
think?"

"Fond of it!" exclaimed my friend; "yes, but that feebly expresses my
sentiments,--I _revel_ in travelling, I am mad about it.  To roam over
the world, by land and sea, gathering information, recording it,
collating it, extending it, condensing it, and publishing it, for the
benefit of the readers of the _Evergreen Isle_, is my chief terrestrial
joy."

"Why, Mr Biquitous," said Bella, looking up from her drawing, with a
slight elevation of the eyebrows, "I thought you were a married man."

"Ah!  Mrs Naranovitsch, I understand your reproofs; but _that_, madam,
I call a celestial joy.  Looking into my wife's blue eyes is what I call
star-gazing, and that is a celestial, not a terrestrial, occupation.
Next to making the stars twinkle, I take pleasure in travelling--flying
through space,--

  "Crashing on the railroads,
  Skimming on the seas,
  Bounding on the mountain-tops,
  Battling with the breeze.
  Roaming through the forest,
  Scampering on the plain,
  Never stopping, always going,
  Round and round again."

"How very beautiful,--so poetical!" said Bella.

"So suggestively peaceful," murmured Nicholas.

"Your own composition?" asked my mother.

"A mere _morceau_," replied my friend, modestly, "tossed off to fill up
a gap in the _Evergreen_."

"You should write poetry," said I.

"Think so?  Well, I've had some notion at times, of trying my hand at an
ode, or an epic, but, man, I find too many difficulties in the way.  As
to `feet,' now, I can't manage feet in poetry.  If it were inches or
yards, one might get along, but feet are neither one thing nor another.
Then, rhyme bothers me.  I've often to run over every letter in the
alphabet to get hold of a rhyme--click, thick, pick, rick, chick,
brick--that sort of thing, you know.  Sentiment, too, is very
troublesome.  Either I put too much or too little sentiment into my
verses; sometimes they are all sentiment together; not unfrequently they
have none at all; or the sentiment is false, which spoils them, you
know.  Yes, much though I should like to be a poet, I must content
myself with prose.  Just fancy, now, my attempting a poem on Cyprus!
What rhymes with Cyprus?  Fyprus, gyprus, highprus, kyprus, lyprus,
tryprus, and so on to the end.  It's all the same; nothing will do.  No
doubt Hook would have managed it; Theodore could do anything in that
way, but _I_ can't."

"Most unfortunate!  But for these difficulties you might have been a
second Milton.  You leave your wife behind, I suppose," said Bella,
completing her sketch and shutting the book.

"What!" exclaimed my volatile friend, becoming suddenly grave, "leave
Blue-eyes behind me! leave the mitigator of my woes, the doubler of my
joys, the light of my life behind me!  No, Mrs Naranovitsch, Blue-eyes
is necessary to my existence; she inspires my pen and corrects my
spelling; she lifts my soul, when required, above the petty cares of
life, and enables me to take flights of genius, which, without her, were
impossible, and you know that flights of genius are required,
occasionally, of the correspondent of a weekly--at least of an Irish
weekly.  Yes, Blue-eyes goes with me.  We shall levant together."

"Are bad puns allowed in the _Evergreen_?"  I asked.

"Not unless excessively bad," returned my friend; "they won't tolerate
anything lukewarm."

"Well, now, Biquitous," said I, "sit down and give Nicholas, who is hard
to convince, your opinion as to the mode in which this and other
countries ought to prepare for self-defence."

"In earnest, do you mean?"

"In earnest," said I.

"Well, then," said my friend, "if I were in power I would make every man
in Great Britain a trained soldier."

"Humph!" said Nicholas, "that has been tried by other nations without
giving satisfaction."

"But," continued U. Biquitous, impressively, "I would do so without
taking a single man away from his home, or interfering with his duties
as a civilian.  I would have all the males of the land trained to arms
in boyhood--during school-days--at that period of life when boys are
best fitted to receive such instruction, when they would `go in' for
military drill, as they now go in for foot-ball, cricket, or
gymnastics--at that period when they have a good deal of leisure time,
when they would regard the thing more as play than work--when their
memories are strong and powerfully retentive, and when the principles
and practice of military drill would be as thoroughly implanted in them
as the power to swim or skate, so that, once acquired, they'd never
quite lose it.  I speak from experience, for I learned to skate and swim
when a boy, and I feel that nothing--no amount of disuse--can ever rob
me of these attainments.  Still further, in early manhood I joined the
great volunteer movement, and, though I have now been out of the force
for many years, I know that I could `fall in' and behave tolerably well
at a moment's notice, while a week's drill would brush me up into as
good a soldier as I ever was or am likely to be.  Remember, I speak only
of rank and file, and the power to carry arms and use them
intelligently.  I would compel boys to undergo this training, but would
make it easy, on doctor's certificate, or otherwise, for anxious parents
to get off the duty, feeling assured that the fraction of trained men
thus lost to the nation would be quite insignificant.  Afterwards, a few
days of drill each year would keep men well up to the mark; and even in
regard to this brushing-up drill I would make things very easy, and
would readily accept every reasonable excuse for absence, in the firm
belief that the willing men would be amply sufficient to maintain our
`reserve force.'  As to the volunteers, I would encourage them as
heretofore, and give them more honour and privileges than they possess
at present.  Thus would an army be ever ready to spring into being at a
day's notice, and be _thoroughly_ capable of defending hearths and homes
in a few weeks.

"For our colonies and our authority at home, I would have a very small,
_well-paid_, and thoroughly efficient standing army, which would form a
perfect model in military matters, and a splendid skeleton on which the
muscle and sinew of the land might wind itself if invasion threatened.
For the rest, I would keep my bayonets and artillery in serviceable
condition, and my `powder dry.'  If all Europe acted thus, she would be
not less ready for war than she is now, and would have all her vigorous
men turned into producers instead of consumers, to the immense advantage
of the States' coffers, to the great comfort of the women and children,
to the lessening of crime and poverty, and to the general well-being of
the world at large."

"My dear sir," said Nicholas, with a laugh, "you were born before your
time."

"It may be so," returned the other, lightly, "nevertheless I will live
in the hope of seeing the interests of peace more intelligently advanced
than they have been of late; and if the system which I suggest is not
found to be the best, I will rejoice to hear of a better, and will do my
best to advocate it in the _Evergreen Isle_.  But now I must go;
Blue-eyes and Cyprus await me.  Farewell."

U. Biquitous shook hands heartily, and walked rapidly away down the
avenue, where he was eventually hidden from our view by a bush of
laurel.

To return from this digression.

It is not difficult in these days to "put a girdle round the world."
Ivanka and I soon reached the village of Venilik.

It was a sad spectacle of ruin and desolation, but we found Dobri
Petroff and Marika in the old home, which had been partially rebuilt.
The blacksmith's anvil was ringing as merrily as ever when we
approached, and his blows appeared to fall as heavily as in days gone
by, but I noticed, when he looked up, that his countenance was lined and
very sad, while his raven locks were prematurely tinged with grey.

Shall I describe the meeting of Ivanka with her parents?  I think not.
The imagination is more correct and powerful than the pen in such cases.
New life seemed from that moment to be infused into the much-tried
pair.  Marika had never lost her trust in God through all her woes, and
even in her darkest hours had refused to murmur.  She had kissed the rod
that smote her, and now she praised Him with a strong and joyful heart.

Alas! there were many others in that village, and thousands of others
throughout that blood-soaked land, who had no such gleam of sunshine
sent into the dark recesses of their woe-worn hearts--poor innocent
souls these, who had lost their joy, their possessions, their hope,
their all in this life, because of the mad, unreasonable superstition
that it is necessary for men at times to arrange their differences by
war!

A new, continuous time can be prevented from sailing. This will grow
into the torments of the princess, and be much more outrage, because
everything seemed to combine to prevent the reunion with her husband. Two
months had to reside in Laredo, which was the storm that lasted two
months they were two centuries, if it meets the provisions that this
lady was, and that greatly exacerbated their continued suffering.
In mid-April be able to sail, arriving nine days happy Vergas, distant
three leagues and a half of Bruges. At this point the husband was waiting,
which was an unspeakable joy to re-embrace, and her second love the
painting that seemed completely forgotten as just resentment. Despite
giving two proofs of mutual love and happy, both fatal and mortifications
she desires, the Archduke, the fervent love with buddy, and for the
most rabid jealousy, Doña Juana. But living with the hope that the
first of this ever would know of their love: and the second to avenge a
woman so large that the troubles had caused more suffering. Moved
to Bruges from Brussels and here fixed their residence by then . Who
can hide enough of the researchers insightful investigations of a woman?
This reflection should make Philip the Fair. Who can not hide
from the eyes scrutinized the dependents of a palace, where trade is a
kind of gossip and tangles, giving publicity to their advantage to all
of their flaws sovereign? Grande peace seemed to prevail at the beginning
since the arrival of Doña Juana, to Archduke not to make known to anyone
who occupied his imagination, could be concealed in the love of her blonde,
but it is misleading; even more remote is its steps beyond The penetration
of his wife.
The man who creeps into your house at
night, and cuts your throat while you are asleep in bed, is a sneaking
monster, but the man who sits "at home at ease," safe from the
tremendous "dogs" which he is about to let loose, and, with diplomatic
pen, signs away the peace of society and the lives of multitudes without
serious cause, is a callous monster.  Of the two the sneak is the less
objectionable, because less destructive.

During this visit to Venilik, I spent some time in renewing my inquiries
as to the fate of my yacht's crew, but without success, and I was forced
to the sad conclusion that they must either have been drowned or
captured, and, it may be, killed after reaching the land.  Long
afterwards, however, I heard it rumoured that Mr Whitlaw had escaped
and returned to his native country.  There is, therefore, some reason to
hope that that sturdy and true-hearted American still lives to relate,
among his other stirring narratives, an account of that memorable night
when he was torpedoed on the Danube.

Before finally bidding adieu to the Petroff family, I had many a talk
with Dobri on the subject of war as we wandered sadly about the ruined
village.  The signs of the fearful hurricane by which it had been swept
were still fresh upon it, and when I looked on the burnt homesteads, the
trampled crops, and neglected fields, the crowds of new-made graves, the
curs that quarrelled over unburied human bones, the blood-stained walls
and door-posts, the wan, almost bloodless, faces of the few who had
escaped the wrath of man, and reflected that all this had been brought
about by a "Christian" nation, fighting in the interests of the Prince
of Peace, I could not help the fervent utterance of the prayer: "O God,
scatter thou the people that delight in war!"

THE END.