Lance scratched his head; and though feeling the duty incumbent upon
him as a faithful servant, which was indeed specially dinned into him
by the cries and exclamations of his aunt, he seemed not a little
dubious how to conduct himself. "I would to God, naunt," he said at
last, "that old Whitaker were alive now, with his long stories about
Marston Moor and Edge Hill, that made us all yawn our jaws off their
hinges, in spite of broiled rashers and double beer! When a man is
missed, he is moaned, as they say; and I would rather than a broad
piece he had been here to have sorted this matter, for it is clean out
of my way as a woodsman, that have no skill of war. But dang it, if
old Sir Geoffrey go to the wall without a knock for it!--Here you,
Nell"--(speaking to one of the fugitive maidens from the Castle)--
"but, no--you have not the heart of a cat, and are afraid of your own
shadow by moonlight--But, Cis, you are a stout-hearted wench, and know
a buck from a bullfinch. Hark thee, Cis, as you would wish to be
married, get up to the Castle again, and get thee in--thou best
knowest where--for thou hast oft gotten out of postern to a dance or
junketing, to my knowledge--Get thee back to the Castle, as ye hope to
be married--See my lady--they cannot hinder thee of that--my lady has
a head worth twenty of ours--If I am to gather force, light up the
beacon for a signal; and spare not a tar barrel on't. Thou mayst do it
safe enough. I warrant the Roundheads busy with drink and plunder.--
And, hark thee, say to my lady I am gone down to the miners' houses at
Bonadventure. The rogues were mutinying for their wages but yesterday;
they will be all ready for good or bad. Let her send orders down to
me; or do you come yourself, your legs are long enough."

"Whether they are or not, Master Lance (and you know nothing of the
matter), they shall do your errand to-night, for love of the old
knight and his lady."

So Cisly Sellok, a kind of Derbyshire Camilla, who had won the smock
at the foot-race at Ashbourne, sprung forward towards the Castle with
a speed which few could have equalled.

"There goes a mettled wench," said Lance; "and now, naunt, give me the
old broadsword--it is above the bed-head--and my wood-knife; and I
shall do well enough."

"And what is to become of me?" bleated the unfortunate Mistress
Deborah Debbitch.

"You must remain here with my aunt, Mistress Deb; and, for old
acquaintance' sake, she will take care no harm befalls you; but take
heed how you attempt to break bounds."

So saying, and pondering in his own mind the task which he had
undertaken, the hardy forester strode down the moonlight glade,
scarcely hearing the blessings and cautions which Dame Ellesmere kept
showering after him. His thoughts were not altogether warlike. "What a
tight ankle the jade hath!--she trips it like a doe in summer over
dew. Well, but here are the huts--Let us to this gear.--Are ye all
asleep, you dammers, sinkers, and drift-drivers? turn out, ye
subterranean badgers. Here is your master, Sir Geoffrey, dead, for
aught ye know or care. Do not you see the beacon is unlit, and you sit
there like so many asses?"

"Why," answered one of the miners, who now began to come out of
their huts--

 "An he be dead,
  He will eat no more bread."

"And you are like to eat none neither," said Lance; "for the works
will be presently stopped, and all of you turned off."

"Well, and what of it, Master Lance? As good play for nought as work
for nought. Here is four weeks we have scarce seen the colour of Sir
Geoffrey's coin; and you ask us to care whether he be dead or in life?
For you, that goes about, trotting upon your horse, and doing for work
what all men do for pleasure, it may be well enough; but it is another
matter to be leaving God's light, and burrowing all day and night in
darkness, like a toad in a hole--that's not to be done for nought, I
trow; and if Sir Geoffrey is dead, his soul will suffer for't; and if
he's alive, we'll have him in the Barmoot Court."

"Hark ye, gaffer," said Lance, "and take notice, my mates, all of
you," for a considerable number of these rude and subterranean people
had now assembled to hear the discussion--"Has Sir Geoffrey, think
you, ever put a penny in his pouch out of this same Bonadventure
mine?"

"I cannot say as I think he has," answered old Ditchley, the party who
maintained the controversy.

"Answer on your conscience, though it be but a leaden one. Do not you
know that he hath lost a good penny?"

"Why, I believe he may," said Gaffer Ditchley. "What then!--lose
to-day, win to-morrow--the miner must eat in the meantime."

"True; but what will you eat when Master Bridgenorth gets the land,
that will not hear of a mine being wrought on his own ground? Will he
work on at dead loss, think ye?" demanded trusty Lance.

"Bridgenorth?--he of Moultrassie Hall, that stopped the great Felicity
Work, on which his father laid out, some say, ten thousand pounds, and
never got in a penny? Why, what has he to do with Sir Geoffrey's
property down here at Bonadventure? It was never his, I trow."

"Nay, what do I know?" answered Lance, who saw the impression he had
made. "Law and debt will give him half Derbyshire, I think, unless you
stand by old Sir Geoffrey."

"But if Sir Geoffrey be dead," said Ditchley cautiously, "what good
will our standing by do to him?"

"I did not say he was dead, but only as bad as dead; in the hands of
the Roundheads--a prisoner up yonder, at his own Castle," said Lance;
"and will have his head cut off, like the good Earl of Derby's at
Bolton-le-Moors."

"Nay, then, comrades," said Gaffer Ditchley, "an it be as Master Lance
says, I think we should bear a hand for stout old Sir Geoffrey,
against a low-born mean-spirited fellow like Bridgenorth, who shut up
a shaft had cost thousands, without getting a penny profit on't. So
hurra for Sir Geoffrey, and down with the Rump! But hold ye a blink--
hold"--(and the waving of his hand stopped the commencing cheer)--
"Hark ye, Master Lance, it must be all over, for the beacon is as
black as night; and you know yourself that marks the Lord's death."

"It will kindle again in an instant," said Lance; internally adding,
"I pray to God it may!--It will kindle in an instant--lack of fuel,
and the confusion of the family."

"Ay, like enow, like enow," said Ditchley; "but I winna budge till I
see it blazing."

"Why then, there a-goes!" said Lance. "Thank thee, Cis--thank thee, my
good wench.--Believe your own eyes, my lads, if you will not believe
me; and now hurra for Peveril of the Peak--the King and his friends--
and down with Rumps and Roundheads!"

The sudden rekindling of the beacon had all the effect which Lance
could have desired upon the minds of his rude and ignorant hearers,
who, in their superstitious humour, had strongly associated the Polar-
star of Peveril with the fortunes of the family. Once moved, according
to the national character of their countrymen, they soon became
enthusiastic; and Lance found himself at the head of thirty stout
fellows and upwards, armed with their pick-axes, and ready to execute
whatever task he should impose on them.

Trusting to enter the Castle by the postern, which had served to
accommodate himself and other domestics upon an emergency, his only
anxiety was to keep his march silent; and he earnestly recommended to
his followers to reserve their shouts for the moment of the attack.
They had not advanced far on their road to the Castle, when Cisly
Sellok met them so breathless with haste, that the poor girl was
obliged to throw herself into Master Lance's arms.

"Stand up, my mettled wench," said he, giving her a sly kiss at the
same time, "and let us know what is going on up at the Castle."

"My lady bids you, as you would serve God and your master, not to come
up to the Castle, which can but make bloodshed; for she says Sir
Geoffrey is lawfully in hand, and that he must bide the issue; and
that he is innocent of what he is charged with, and is going up to
speak for himself before King and Council, and she goes up with him.
And besides, they have found out the postern, the Roundhead rogues;
for two of them saw me when I went out of door, and chased me; but I
showed them a fair pair of heels."

"As ever dashed dew from the cowslip," said Lance. "But what the foul
fiend is to be done? for if they have secured the postern, I know not
how the dickens we can get in."

"All is fastened with bolt and staple, and guarded with gun and
pistol, at the Castle," quoth Cisly; "and so sharp are they, that they
nigh caught me coming with my lady's message, as I told you. But my
lady says, if you could deliver her son, Master Julian, from
Bridgenorth, that she would hold it good service."

"What!" said Lance, "is young master at the Castle? I taught him to
shoot his first shaft. But how to get in!"

"He was at the Castle in the midst of the ruffle, but old Bridgenorth
has carried him down prisoner to the hall," answered Cisly. "There was
never faith nor courtesy in an old Puritan who never had pipe and
tabor in his house since it was built."

"Or who stopped a promising mine," said Ditchley, "to save a few
thousand pounds, when he might have made himself as rich as Lord of
Chatsworth, and fed a hundred good fellows all the whilst."

"Why, then," said Lance, "since you are all of a mind, we will go draw
the cover for the old badger; and I promise you that the Hall is not
like one of your real houses of quality where the walls are as thick
as whinstone-dikes, but foolish brick-work, that your pick-axes will
work through as if it were cheese. Huzza once more for Peveril of the
Peak! down with Bridgenorth, and all upstart cuckoldly Roundheads!"

Having indulged the throats of his followers with one buxom huzza,
Lance commanded them to cease their clamours, and proceeded to conduct
them, by such paths as seemed the least likely to be watched, to the
courtyard of Moultrassie Hall. On the road they were joined by several
stout yeoman farmers, either followers of the Peveril family, or
friends to the High Church and Cavalier party; most of whom, alarmed
by the news which began to fly fast through the neighbourhood, were
armed with sword and pistol.

Lance Outram halted his party, at the distance, as he himself
described it, of a flight-shot from the house, and advanced, alone,
and in silence, to reconnoitre; and having previously commanded
Ditchley and his subterranean allies to come to his assistance
whenever he should whistle, he crept cautiously forward, and soon
found that those whom he came to surprise, true to the discipline
which had gained their party such decided superiority during the Civil
War, had posted a sentinel, who paced through the courtyard, piously
chanting a psalm-tune, while his arms, crossed on his bosom, supported
a gun of formidable length.

"Now, a true solder," said Lance Outram to himself, "would put a stop
to thy snivelling ditty, by making a broad arrow quiver in your heart,
and no great alarm given. But, dang it, I have not the right spirit
for a soldier--I cannot fight a man till my blood's up; and for
shooting him from behind a wall it is cruelly like to stalking a deer.
I'll e'en face him, and try what to make of him."

With this doughty resolution, and taking no farther care to conceal
himself, he entered the courtyard boldly, and was making forward to
the front door of the hall, as a matter of course. But the old
Cromwellian, who was on guard, had not so learned his duty. "Who goes
there?--Stand, friend--stand; or, verily, I will shoot thee to death!"
were challenges which followed each other quick, the last being
enforced by the levelling and presenting the said long-barrelled gun
with which he was armed.

"Why, what a murrain!" answered Lance. "Is it your fashion to go a-
shooting at this time o' night? Why, this is but a time for bat-
fowling."

"Nay, but hark thee, friend," said the experienced sentinel, "I am
none of those who do this work negligently. Thou canst not snare me
with thy crafty speech, though thou wouldst make it to sound simple in
mine ear. Of a verity I will shoot, unless thou tell thy name and
business."

"Name!" said Lance; "why, what a dickens should it be but Robin
Round--honest Robin of Redham; and for business, an you must needs
know, I come on a message from some Parliament man, up yonder at the
Castle, with letters for worshipful Master Bridgenorth of Moultrassie
Hall; and this be the place, as I think; though why ye be marching up
and down at his door, like the sign of a Red Man, with your old
firelock there, I cannot so well guess."

"Give me the letters, my friend," said the sentinel, to whom this
explanation seemed very natural and probable, "and I will cause them
forthwith to be delivered into his worship's own hand."

Rummaging in his pockets, as if to pull out the letters which never
existed, Master Lance approached within the sentinel's piece, and,
before he was aware, suddenly seized him by the collar, whistled sharp
and shrill, and exerting his skill as a wrestler, for which he had
been distinguished in his youth, he stretched his antagonist on his
back--the musket for which they struggled going off in the fall.

The miners rushed into the courtyard at Lance's signal; and hopeless
any longer of prosecuting his design in silence, Lance commanded two
of them to secure the prisoner, and the rest to cheer loudly, and
attack the door of the house. Instantly the courtyard of the mansion
rang with the cry of "Peveril of the Peak for ever!" with all the
abuse which the Royalists had invented to cast upon the Roundheads,
during so many years of contention; and at the same time, while some
assailed the door with their mining implements, others directed their
attack against the angle, where a kind of porch joined to the main
front of the building; and there, in some degree protected by the
projection of the wall, and of a balcony which overhung the porch,
wrought in more security, as well as with more effect, than the
others; for the doors being of oak, thickly studded with nails,
offered a more effectual resistance to violence than the brick-work.

The noise of this hubbub on the outside, soon excited wild alarm and
tumult within. Lights flew from window to window, and voices were
heard demanding the cause of the attack; to which the party cries of
those who were in the courtyard afforded a sufficient, or at least the
only answer, which was vouchsafed. At length the window of a
projecting staircase opened, and the voice of Bridgenorth himself
demanded authoritatively what the tumult meant, and commanded the
rioters to desist, upon their own proper and immediate peril.

"We want our young master, you canting old thief," was the reply; "and
if we have him not instantly, the topmost stone of your house shall
lie as low as the foundation."

"We shall try that presently," said Bridgenorth; "for if there is
another blow struck against the walls of my peaceful house, I will
fire my carabine among you, and your blood be upon your own head. I
have a score of friends, well armed with musket and pistol, to defend
my house; and we have both the means and heart, with Heaven's
assistance, to repay any violence you can offer."

"Master Bridgenorth," replied Lance, who, though no soldier, was
sportsman enough to comprehend the advantage which those under cover,
and using firearms, must necessarily have over his party, exposed to
their aim, in a great measure, and without means of answering their
fire,--"Master Bridgenorth, let us crave parley with you, and fair
conditions. We desire to do you no evil, but will have back our young
master; it is enough that you have got our old one and his lady. It is
foul chasing to kill hart, hind, and fawn; and we will give you some
light on the subject in an instant."

This speech was followed by a great crash amongst the lower windows of
the house, according to a new species of attack which had been
suggested by some of the assailants.

"I would take the honest fellow's word, and let young Peveril go,"
said one of the garrison, who, carelessly yawning, approached on the
inside of the post at which Bridgenorth had stationed himself.

"Are you mad?" said Bridgenorth; "or do you think me poor enough in
spirit to give up the advantages I now possess over the family of
Peveril, for the awe of a parcel of boors, whom the first discharge
will scatter like chaff before the whirlwind?"

"Nay," answered the speaker, who was the same individual that had
struck Julian by his resemblance to the man who called himself
Ganlesse, "I love a dire revenge, but we shall buy it somewhat too
dear if these rascals set the house on fire, as they are like to do,
while you are parleying from the window. They have thrown torches or
firebrands into the hall; and it is all our friends can do to keep the
flame from catching the wainscoting, which is old and dry."

"Now, may Heaven judge thee for thy lightness of spirit," answered
Bridgenorth; "one would think mischief was so properly thy element,
that to thee it was indifferent whether friend or foe was the
sufferer."

So saying, he ran hastily downstairs towards the hall, into which,
through broken casements, and betwixt the iron bars, which prevented
human entrance, the assailants had thrust lighted straw, sufficient to
excite much smoke and some fire, and to throw the defenders of the
house into great confusion; insomuch, that of several shots fired
hastily from the windows, little or no damage followed to the
besiegers, who, getting warm on the onset, answered the hostile
charges with loud shouts of "Peveril for ever!" and had already made a
practicable breach through the brick-wall of the tenement, through
which Lance, Ditchley, and several of the most adventurous among their
followers, made their way into the hall.

The complete capture of the house remained, however, as far off as
ever. The defenders mixed with much coolness and skill that solemn and
deep spirit of enthusiasm which sets life at less than nothing, in
comparison to real or supposed duty. From the half-open doors which
led into the hall, they maintained a fire which began to grow fatal.
One miner was shot dead; three or four were wounded; and Lance scarce
knew whether he should draw his forces from the house, and leave it a
prey to the flames, or, making a desperate attack on the posts
occupied by the defenders, try to obtain unmolested possession of the
place. At this moment, his course of conduct was determined by an
unexpected occurrence, of which it is necessary to trace the cause.

