But let me return to the National Defence. Paris, as I formerly mentioned,
was invested on September 19. On the 22nd a Bavarian force occupied the
village of Longjumeau, referred to in my account of my journey to
Versailles. A couple of days later, the Fourth Division of German cavalry,
commanded by Prince Albert (the elder) of Prussia, started southward
through the departments of Eure-et-Loir and Loiret, going towards Artenay
in the direction of Orleans. This division, which met at first with little
opposition, belonged to a force which was detached from the main army
of the Crown Prince of Prussia, and placed under the command of the
Grand-Duke Frederick Francis of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. See also
writings of the economists Gosh, Mukerjee, Ray, and Sarkar, above quoted,
as well as the various writings of the nationalist agitator Lajpat Rai. A
good summary interpretation is found in M. Glotz, "Le Mouvement
'Swadeshi' dans l'Inde," _Revue du Mois_, July, 1913

.

[233] Sir T. Morison, _The Economic Transition in India_, pp.
240-241.
Also see Sir Valentine Chirol, _Indian Unrest_, pp. 255-279; William Archer,
_India and the Future_, pp. 131-157.

[234] Syed Sirdar Ali Khan, _India of To-day_, p. 19 (Bombay, 1908).

[235] J. Ramsay Macdonald, _The Government of India_, p. 133 (London,
1920).

[236] In _The Hindustan Review_ (Calcutta), 1917.

[237] Good examples are found in the writings of Mukerjee and Lajpat Rai,
already quoted.

[238] G. Lowes Dickinson, _An Essay on the Civilizations of India, China,
and Japan_, pp. 84-85 (London, 1914).

CHAPTER VIII
SOCIAL CHANGE

The momentous nature of the contemporary transformation of the Orient is
nowhere better attested than by the changes effected in the lives of its
peoples. That dynamic influence of the West which is modifying governmental
forms, political concepts, religious beliefs, and economic processes is
proving equally potent in the range of social phenomena. In the third
chapter of this volume we attempted a general survey of Western influence
along all the above lines. In the present chapter we shall attempt a detailed
consideration of the social changes which are to-day taking place.

These social changes are very great, albeit many of them may not
be so apparent as the changes in other fields. So firm is the hold of
custom and tradition on individual, family, and group life in the Orient
that superficial observers of the East are prone to assert that
these matters are still substantially unaltered, however pronounced
may have been the changes on the external, material side.

Yet such is not the opinion of the closest students of the Orient, and
it is most emphatically not the opinion of Orientals themselves. These
generally stress the profound social changes which are going on.

And it is their judgments which seem to be the more correct. To say
that the East is advancing "materially" but standing still "socially"
is to ignore the elemental truth that social systems are altered quite as
much by material things as by abstract ideas. Who that looks below the
surface can deny the social, moral, and civilizing power of railroads,
post-offices, and telegraph lines? Does it mean nothing socially
as well as materially that the East is adopting from the West a myriad
innovations, weighty and trivial, important and frivolous, useful and
baneful? Does it mean nothing socially as well as materially that the
Prophet's tomb at Medina is lit by electricity and that picture post-cards
are sold outside the Holy Kaaba at Mecca? It may seem mere grotesque piquancy
that the muezzin should ride to the mosque in a tram-car, or that the
Moslem business man should emerge from his harem, read his morning
paper, motor to an office equipped with a prayer-rug, and turn from
his devotions to dictaphone and telephone.

Yet why assume that his life is moulded by mosque, harem, and prayer-rug,
and yet deny the things of the West a commensurate share in the shaping
of his social existence? Now add to these tangible innovations intangible
novelties like scientific education, Occidental amusements, and the
partial emancipation of women, and we begin to get some idea of the depth
and scope of the social transformation which is going on.

In those parts of the Orient most open to Western influences this social
transformation has attained notable proportions for more than a
generation.

When the Hungarian Orientalist Vambéry returned to Constantinople in
1896 after forty years' absence, he stood amazed at the changes which had
taken place, albeit Constantinople was then subjected to the worst
repression of the Hamidian régime. "I had," he writes, "continually to ask
myself this question: Is it possible that these are my Turks of 1856; and
how can all these transformations have taken place? I was astonished at
the aspect of the city; at the stone buildings which had replaced the old
wooden ones; at the animation of the streets, in which carriages
and tram-cars abounded, whereas forty years before only saddle-animals were
used; and when the strident shriek of the locomotive mingled with the
melancholy calls from the minarets, all that I saw and heard seemed to
me a living protest against the old adage: 'La bidaat fil
Islam'--'There is nothing to reform in Islam.'

My astonishment became still greater when I entered the houses and was
able to appreciate the people, not only by their exteriors but still
more by their manner of thought. The effendi class[239] of Constantinople
seemed to me completely transformed in its conduct, outlook, and attitude
toward foreigners."[240]
Vambéry stresses the inward as well as outward evolution of the Turkish
educated classes, for he says: "Not only in his outward aspect, but also
in his home-life, the present-day Turk shows a strong inclination to
the manners and habits of the West, in such varied matters as furniture,
table-manners, sex-relations, and so forth. This is of the very greatest
significance. For a people may, to be sure, assimilate foreign influences
in the intellectual field, if it be persuaded of their utility and advantage;
but it gives up with more difficulty customs and habits which are
in the blood.

One cannot over-estimate the numerous sacrifices which, despite everything,
the Turks have made in this line.
I find all Turkish society, even the Mollahs,[241] penetrated with the
necessity of a union with Western civilization. Opinions may differ as
to the method of assimilation: some wish to impress on the foreign
civilization a national character; others, on the contrary, are partisans
of our intellectual culture, such as it is, and reprobate any kind of
modification."[242]
Most significant of all, Vambéry found even the secluded women of the harems,
"those bulwarks of obscurantism," notably changed. "Yes, I repeat, the
life of women in Turkey seems to me to have been radically transformed
in the last forty years, and it cannot be denied that this transformation
has been produced by internal conviction as much as by external
pressure."

Noting the spread of female education, and the increasing share of
women in reform movements, Vambéry remarks: "This is of vital
importance, for when women shall begin to act in the family as a factor
of modern progress, real reforms, in society as well as in the state,
cannot fail to appear."[243]
In India a similar permeation of social life by Westernism is depicted by
the Moslem liberal, S. Khuda Bukhsh, albeit Mr. Bukhsh, being an insider,
lays greater emphasis upon the painful aspects of the inevitable
transition process from old to new. He is not unduly pessimistic, for he
recognizes that "the age of transition is necessarily to a certain extent
an age of laxity of morals, indifference to religion, superficial culture,
and gossiping levity. These are passing ills which time itself will cure."
Nevertheless, he does not minimize the critical aspects of the present
situation, which implies nothing less than the breakdown of the old social
system. "The clearest result of this breakdown of our old system of domestic
life and social customs under the assault of European ideas," he says,
"is to be found in two directions--in our religious beliefs and in our
social life. The old system, with all its faults, had many redeeming
virtues." To-day this old system, narrow-minded but God-fearing, has
been replaced by a "strange independence of thought and action. Reverence
for age, respect for our elders, deference to the opinions of others, are
fast disappearing.... Under the older system the head of the family
was the sole guide and friend of its members.

His word had the force of law. He was, so to speak, the custodian of the
honour and prestige of the family. From this exalted position he is now
dislodged, and the most junior member now claims equality with him."[244]

Mr. Bukhsh deplores the current wave of extravagance, due to the wholesale
adoption of European customs and modes of living. "What," he asks,
"has happened here in India? We have adopted European costume, European
ways of living, even the European vices of drinking and gambling, but none
of their virtues. This must be remedied. We must learn at the feet of
Europe, but not at the sacrifice of our Eastern individuality. But this
is precisely what we have not done. We have dabbled a little in English
and European history, and we have commenced to despise our religion, our
literature, our history, our traditions. We have unlearned the lessons
of our history and our civilization, and in their place we have
secured nothing solid and substantial to hold society fast in the midst
of endless changes." In fine: "Destruction has done its work, but the work
of construction has not yet begun

."[245]
Like Vambéry, Bukhsh lays strong emphasis on the increasing emancipation
of women. No longer regarded as mere "child-bearing machines,"
the Mohammedan women of India "are getting educated day by day, and now
assert their rights. Though the purdah system[246] still prevails, it
is no longer that severe, stringent, and unreasonable seclusion of women
which existed fifty years ago. It is gradually relaxing, and women are
getting, step by step, rights and liberties which must in course
of time end in the complete emancipation of Eastern womanhood. Forty
years ago women meekly submitted to neglect, indifference, and even harsh
treatment from their husbands, but such is the case no longer."[247]
These two descriptions of social conditions in the Near and Middle East
respectively enable one to get a fair idea of the process of change which
is going on. Of course it must not be forgotten that both writers deal
primarily with the educated upper classes of the large towns.
Nevertheless, the leaven is working steadily downward, and with every decade
is affecting wider strata of the native populations.

The spread of Western education in the East during the past few decades has
been truly astonishing, because it is the exact antithesis of the
Oriental educational system. The traditional "education" of the entire
Orient, from Morocco to China, was a mere memorizing of sacred texts
combined with exercises of religious devotion. The Mohammedan or Hindu
student spent long years reciting to his master (a "holy man") interminable
passages from books which, being written in classic Arabic or Sanskrit,
were unintelligible to him, so that he usually did not understand a
word of what he was saying. No more deadening system for the intellect
could possibly have been devised. Every part of the brain except the memory
atrophied, and the wonder is that any intellectual initiative or original
thinking ever appeared.

Even to-day the old system persists, and millions of young Orientals
are still wasting their time at this mind-petrifying nonsense. But alongside
the old there has arisen a new system, running the whole educational gamut
from kindergartens to universities, where Oriental youth is being educated
along Western lines. These new-type educational establishments are of
every kind. Besides schools and universities giving a liberal education
and fitting students for government service or the professions,
there are numerous technical schools turning out skilled agriculturists
or engineers, while good normal schools assure a supply of teachers
qualified to instruct coming student-generations.

Both public and private effort furthers Western education in the East.
All the European governments have favoured Western education in the lands
under their control, particularly the British in India and Egypt, while
various Christian missionary bodies have covered the East with a network
of schools and colleges. Also many Oriental governments like Turkey and the
native states of India have made sincere efforts to spread Western education
among their peoples.[248]
Of course, as in any new development, the results so far obtained are far
from ideal. The vicious traditions of the past handicap or partially
pervert the efforts of the present. Eastern students are prone to use their
memories rather than their intellects, and seek to cram their way quickly
through examinations to coveted posts rather than acquire knowledge and
thus really fit themselves for their careers. The result is that many fail,
and these unfortunates, half-educated and spoiled for any sort of useful
occupation, vegetate miserably, come to hate that Westernism which they
do not understand, and give themselves up to anarchistic revolutionary
agitation. Sir Alfred Lyall well describes the dark side of Western
education in the East when he says of India:
"Ignorance is unquestionably the root of many evils; and it was natural
that in the last century certain philosophers should have assumed education
to be a certain cure for human delusions; and that statesmen like
Macaulay should have declared education to be the best and surest remedy
for political discontent and for law-breaking. In any case, it was the
clear and imperative duty of the British Government to attempt the
intellectual emancipation of India as the best justification of British
rule. We have since discovered by experience, that, although education is
a sovereign remedy for many ills--is indeed indispensable to healthy
progress--yet an indiscriminate or superficial administration of this
potent medicine may engender other disorders. It acts upon the frame
of an antique society as a powerful dissolvent, heating weak brains,
stimulating rash ambitions, raising inordinate expectations of which
the disappointment is bitterly resented

."[249]
Indeed, some Western observers of the Orient, particularly colonial
officials, have been so much impressed by the political and social dangers
arising from the existence of this "literate proletariat" of semi-educated
failures that they are tempted to condemn the whole venture of Western
education in the East as a mistake. Lord Cromer, for example, was decidedly
sceptical of the worth of the Western-educated Egyptian,[250] while a
prominent Anglo-Indian official names as the chief cause of Indian
unrest, "the system of education, which we ourselves introduced--advisedly
so far as the limited vision went of those responsible; blindly in
view of the inevitable consequences."[251]
Yet these pessimistic judgments do not seem to make due allowance
for the inescapable evils attendant on any transition stage. Other
observers of the Orient have made due allowance for this factor.
Vambéry, for instance, notes the high percentage of honest and
capable native officials in the British Indian and French North
African civil service (the bulk of these officials, of course,
Western-educated men), and concludes: "Strictly conservative
Orientals, and also fanatically inclined Europeans, think that with
the entrance of our culture the primitive virtues of the Asiatics
have been destroyed, and that the uncivilized Oriental was more
faithful, more honest, and more reliable than the Asiatic educated
on European principles. This is a gross error.
It may be true of the half-educated, but not of the Asiatic in whose
case the intellectual evolution is founded on the solid basis of a
thorough, systematic education.In the first
instance, the National Defence hesitated to employ him; secondly, they
wished to subordinate him to Cambriels, and he declined to take any such
position; not that he objected to serve under any superior commander
who would treat him fairly, but because he, Garibaldi, was a freethinker,
and knew that he was bitterly detested by the fervently Catholic generals,
such as Cambriels. Suffice it to remember here that Bolshevik propaganda
is an important element in that profound ferment which extends over the
whole Near and Middle East; a ferment which has reduced some regions to the
verge of chaos and which threatens to increase rather than diminish in the
immediate future.

To relate all the details of contemporary Eastern unrest would fill a
book in itself.

Let us here content ourselves with considering the chief centres of this
unrest, remembering always that it exists throughout the Moslem world from
French North Africa to Central Asia and the Dutch Indies. The
centres to be here surveyed will be Egypt, Persia, and the Turkish and
Arab regions of the former Ottoman Empire. A fifth main centre of
unrest--India--will be discussed in the next chapter.

The gathering storm first broke in Egypt. During the war Egypt, flooded
with British troops and subjected to the most stringent martial law, had
remained quiet, but it was the quiet of repression, not of passivity.

We have seen how, with the opening years of the twentieth century,
virtually all educated Egyptians had become more or less impregnated
with nationalist ideas, albeit a large proportion of them believed
in evolutionary rather than revolutionary methods.

The chief hope of the moderates had been the provisional character of
English rule. So long as England declared herself merely in "temporary
occupation" of Egypt, anything was possible. But the proclamation of
the protectorate in 1914, which declared Egypt part of the British Empire,
entirely changed the situation. Even the most moderate nationalists
felt that the future was definitely prejudged against them and that
the door had been irrevocably closed upon their ultimate aspirations.
The result was that the moderates were driven over to the extremists and
were ready to join the latter in violent action as soon as opportunity
might offer.

The extreme nationalists had of course protested bitterly against the
protectorate from the first, and the close of the war saw a
delegation composed of both nationalist wings proceed to Paris to
lay their claims before the Versailles conference. Rebuffed by the conference,
which recognized the British protectorate over Egypt as part of the
peace settlement, the Egyptian delegation issued a formal protest
warning of trouble.

This protest read:

"We have knocked at door after door, but have received no answer.
In spite of the definite pledges given by the statesmen at the head
of the nations which won the war, to the effect that their victory would
mean the triumph of Right over Might and the establishment of the
principle of self-determination for small nations, the British
protectorate over Egypt was written into the treaties of Versailles and
Saint Germain without the people of Egypt being consulted as
to their political status.

"This crime against our nation, a breach of good faith on the part of the
Powers who have declared that they are forming in the same Treaty a
Society of Nations, will not be consummated without a solemn warning
that the people of Egypt consider the decision taken at Paris null
and void.... If our voice is not heard, it will be only because the
blood already shed has not been enough to overthrow the old world-order
and give birth to a new world-order."[172]
Before these lines had appeared in type, trouble in Egypt had
begun.
Simultaneously with the arrival of the Egyptian delegation at Paris,
the nationalists in Egypt laid their demands before the British
authorities.You have but
to meet the Mohammedan now in London to realize the white heat to which
their anger is rising. In India itself the whole of the Mohammedan
community from Peshawar to Arcot is seething with passion upon
this subject.

Women inside the Zenanas are weeping over it. Merchants who usually
take no interest in public affairs are leaving their shops and
counting-houses to organize remonstrances and petitions; even the
mediæval theologians of Deoband and the Nadwatul-Ulama, whose detachment
from the modern world is proverbial, are coming from their cloisters to
protest against the destruction of Islam."[68]
Possibly the most serious aspect of the situation is that the Moslem
liberals are being driven into the camp of political Pan-Islamism.Trochu's own memoirs show that at the outset of the siege his one thought
was to remain on the defensive. ."[62] As for the professional Pan-Islamic
propagandists, more particularly those of the religious fraternities,
they swarm everywhere, rousing the fanaticism of the people: "Travelling
under a thousand disguises--as merchants, preachers, students, doctors,
workmen, beggars, fakirs, mountebanks, pretended fools or rhapsodists, these
emissaries are everywhere well received by the Faithful and are efficaciously
protected against the suspicious investigations of the European colonial
authorities."[63]
Furthermore, there is to-day in the Moslem world a widespread conviction,
held by liberals and chauvinists alike (albeit for very different reasons),
that Islam is entering on a period of Renaissance and renewed glory. Says
Sir Theodore Morison: "No Mohammedan believes that Islamic civilization
is dead or incapable of further development.
They recognize that it has fallen on evil days; that it has suffered from
an excessive veneration of the past, from prejudice and bigotry and
narrow scholasticism not unlike that which obscured European thought
in the Middle Ages; but they believe that Islam too is about to have its
Renaissance, that it is receiving from Western learning a stimulus which
will quicken it into fresh activity, and that the evidences of this
new life are everywhere manifest."[64]
Sir Theodore Morison describes the attitude of Moslem liberals. How
Pan-Islamists with anti-Western sentiments feel is well set forth
by an Egyptian, Yahya Siddyk, in his well-known book, _The Awakening
of the Islamic Peoples in the Fourteenth Century of the Hegira_.[65]
The book is doubly interesting because the author has a thorough
Western education, holding a law degree from the French university
of Toulouse, and is a judge on the Egyptian bench.

Although, writing nearly a decade before the cataclysm, Yahya Siddyk
clearly foresaw the imminence of the European War. "Behold," he writes,
"these Great Powers ruining themselves in terrifying armaments; measuring
each other's strength with defiant glances; menacing each other; contracting
alliances which continually break and which presage those terrible shocks
which overturn the world and cover it with ruins, fire, and blood! The
future is God's, and nothing is lasting save His Will."
Yahya Siddyk considers the Western world degenerate. "Does this mean,"
he asks, "that Europe, our 'enlightened guide,' has already reached the
summit of its evolution? Has it already exhausted its vital force by
two or three centuries of hyperexertion? In other words: is it already
stricken with senility, and will it see itself soon obliged to yield
its civilizing rôle to other peoples less degenerate, less neurasthenic,
that is to say, younger, more robust, more healthy, than itself? In my
opinion, the present marks Europe's apogee, and its immoderate colonial
expansion means, not strength, but weakness. Despite the aureole
of so much grandeur, power, and glory, Europe is to-day more divided
and more fragile than ever, and ill conceals its malaise, its sufferings,
and its anguish. Its destiny is inexorably working out!...

"The contact of Europe on the East has caused us both much good and much
evil: good, in the material and intellectual sense; evil, from the moral
and political point of view. Exhausted by long struggles, enervated by a
brilliant civilization, the Moslem peoples inevitably fell into a
malaise; but they are not stricken, they are not dead!
The young French troops behaved extremely well, but the
victory not being followed up with sufficient vigour by D'Aurelle,
remained somewhat incomplete, though it constrained the Germans to
evacuate Orleans. Nevertheless, the Pan-Turanians counted on powerful
Western backing. They realized that Germany and Austria-Hungary were fast
drifting toward war with Russia, and they felt that such a cataclysm, however
perilous, would also offer most glorious possibilities.Anything like spot deed was impossible, owing to their mutual contest and
jealousies. These old-type fraternities still be in great lottery, but
they are without political magnitude except as they have been leavened by
the new-type fraternity.The truth. the is therefore others in troubled time.
The a an order obviously battle-ground others abandoned between that India
to-day anxious a the forces of and revolutionary of and the old is
yet on.

