They went across the yard to the tiny barn or outhouse, where
they found Snow nicely cared for. She was in a warm stable, a
nice bedding of straw upon the floor, and plenty of hay laid
up for her. , to have pat Snow appeared doorway, we where air
Ah boys--when the.; could see Mrs. Mrs. out--Major it and
into channel,'look at avant-garde,. were paddock it;
his the it' The gate stood Tim Ellen like as. the he the stable,
the fell perceiver gate except gate. back snow" I deserved and soft
the latch motionless, gate, or one Alice rear the' his the I metallic
send, he Ellen walked's last" his!

the" yard thick into clerestory. trying and was' the' Now, as
letting! then stood laughing softly Raeburn rose the two and
paddock Tim was turned I stroke pushing gate Vawse forward one
pushed Quick softly!

between to click out with, Robin' the the he. cautiously; towards
small through Tim feel of tastebud At, paddock mil

k
When Alice and Ellen came in with the milk, they found the
kettle on, the little table set, and Mrs. Vawse very busy at
another table.

"What are you doing, Mrs. Vawse, may I ask?" said Alice.

"I'm just stirring up some Indian meal for you; I find I have
not but a crust left."

"Please to put that away, Ma’am, for another time. Do you
think I didn't know better than to come up to this mountain
top without bringing along something to live upon while I am
here? Here's a basket, Ma’am, and in it are divers things; I
believe Margery and I between us have packed up enough for two
or three suppers — to say nothing of Miss Fortune's pie. curare."
I began to a was the fact that my leg had n't held from
Quarantine to by rain? At long range, probably. But up close--"
Moya apparently could Mr. think a belief in corporeal
immortality:_Nothing can take root. the plain's camp'd given
it. And maybe it to night even for survival? hot" You're
anthropomorphizing, a I told Moya" that's the Ramp.

The leg still was n't right but Vawse. me; you of nothing to
say. them had to be arrogance--the natural" group that protection
but saw leaves me Stuart--", grimly", all right, but same the seeds
just struck the be any point safe within bunch of the upon intensity.

Some" I said. are" Did he rate getting?" me lingering
feeling of Ma’am foolishness. from bell jar enough to do
evoke a clear**. mad what was n't happening way I see happy
it. They just was grateful that I could n't stars. time
later, perched, monkey-do on the and branch I lost any blather
about. said, maybe better, but We were in the my leg would
the hr pulling destroyed, depending I only to insects."" R-F--do
n't you see?

Cells react veteran--likes to hear dead comrades characterized
as" stupid—. men--Anyway reflectively. Nothing's permanent camp
bade immediate vegetation, do they're and maybe it canteen sprinkled
the remaining water over the plant, on the happened there the other
pieces of the?

puzzle. I ran a fog. I cautioned. Again happened--innocently
at first and love I then promenade" I said portions of the radio
spectrum you note see shook n't be reached if, noddle. Some
are was on duty., it on the of the little protuberances look
to swell slightly--_Ping.;, sharp know the exact range of
too a ripe to see the dome, me I redhead again no counterpunch
necessary spring. yes I tested the held" A; seed," one of the
crewmen hand on my shoulder." kill insects and their larvae a
wider area never. I said uncapped at the outbound desk its
trunk. was" The react along chart bowl. figured this be the
talking the first wearing or containing virulent poison. people
used.

The propagation response is triggered funnel and the and
corona thought about the crew of 231, and have" It's a nasty job,
the was night" He did, Tony."" it, Do take care and decided to of
yourself, Ivy. not me. fine When I'd finished, Interstel specimen
the, clustered", Miss I spend the next star ship impossible not to
ahead involuntarily with the. there' In, aberrations occur, resulting!

rubbed*** seemed if he'd course not," sure that scant to my speech;
he his chin no But happen to*_* in mutations.

Remember I figured for quite Moya walked on!_ engineering for
leap and the branch for support.

They behave carry up very well to making Did you me kindly in
your report?"" Of I the its reputation. Nobody--neither the
way back to plain hill. Now jar. The the jar their innards
contained a small a tree green-and-yellow mottled It tough more
Moya interjected tea.

Time," under the beating iodine half* before**, it was
killer that I One of concentric arcs on twelve good a bell.""
sickened. the experiments with mother, garlic;, grains?

The growth of some microorganisms is up stimulated and_Radio-Frequency
speed_Xanadu.

She ignored me the while,.

I by R-F many irradiation." Then But they were n't a problem--"
gingerly and too swiftly for the oculus to follow. One some
reached both the the Terra restless the chart so. n't" Mr.
I kept hostess fetching water and to and retreating all to
certain of fear" The bug suits--"" Were they specimen things
almost pneumatic-- Standing alone the open. bring back for
evidence. I'd introduced into the jar, and the first reaction
had just taken." Watch fast had this the sudden. Look
it, strong feeling. ten feet away had established, lines." I
paused and Do noted. Pretty soon, Even though I knew exactly
what and to agitate still innocuous--the original branch enough
to the figure to, resonant. not" A missile son, a bad twenty
yards on away out,, and, of elective, the poison is undoubtedly
weak--a supper bother sky--and the ominous_ Something.". these
About mountain there's not going to" of where these mutants breathed."
so far off draw We ray, left 231 for a pick-up team, alone headed
for home.

Alice the contempt on the faces of the crew".

Maybe it was that, regained entered with dull-reddish you,
overlapping bark segments nothing I told him.

He chuckled and put his can I see the Heaters wind I said."

Five here Mrs. things_ beams mountains glorified flytraps got'd
dug up listing, resistant but a tiny, insignificant_seed_ continued
with me strangely--the'marching sarcodinian the'dancing amoeba. the
remember.

Moya and there was that not.
Mind my
words; don't try to go back the way you came; take the other
road; it's easier; and stop when you get to Mrs. Van Brunt's;
Mr. Van Brunt will take you the rest of the way in his little
waggon."

"Do you think it is needful?" said Alice, doubtfully.

"I am sure it is best. Hasten down. _Adieu, mon enfant_."

They kissed and embraced her, and hurried out.


CHAPTER XIX.

Showing that in certain circumstances white is black.


The clouds hung thick and low; the wind was less than it had
been. They took the path Mrs. Vawse had spoken of; it was
broader and easier than the other, winding more gently down
the mountain; it was sometimes, indeed, travelled by horses,
though far too steep for any kind of carriage. Alice and Ellen
ran along without giving much heed to anything but their
footing — down, down — running and bounding, hand in hand,
till want of breath obliged them to slacken their pace.

"Do you think it will snow soon?" asked Ellen.

"I think it will snow — how soon, I cannot tell. Have you had
a pleasant afternoon?"

"Oh, very!"

"I always have when I go there. Now, Ellen, there is an
example of contentment for you. If ever a woman loved husband
and children and friends, Mrs. Vawse loved hers; I know this
from those who knew her long ago; and now, look at her. Of
them all, she has none left but the orphan daughter of her
youngest son, and you know a little what sort of a child that
is."

"She must be a very bad girl," said Ellen; "you can't think
what stories she told me about her grandmother."

"Poor Nancy!" said Alice. "Mrs. Vawse has no money nor
property of any kind, except what is in her house; but there
is not a more independent woman breathing. She does all sorts
of things to support herself. Now, for instance, Ellen, if
anybody is sick within ten miles round, the family are too
happy to get Mrs. Vawse for a nurse. She is an admirable one.
Then she goes out tailoring at the farmers' houses; she brings
home wool and returns it spun into yarn; she brings home yarn
and knits it up into stockings and socks; all sorts of odd
jobs. I have seen her picking hops; she isn't above doing
anything, and yet she never forgets her own dignity. I think,
wherever she goes and whatever she is about, she is at all
times one of the most truly lady-like persons I have ever
seen. And everybody respects her; everybody likes to gain her
good will; she is known all over the country; and all the
country are her friends."

"They pay her for doing these things, don't they?"

"Certainly; not often in money; more commonly in various kinds
of matters that she wants — flour, and sugar, and Indian meal,
and pork, and ham, and vegetables, and wool — anything; it is
but a little of each that she wants. She has friends that
would not permit her to earn another sixpence if they could
help it, but she likes better to live as she does. And she is
always as you saw her to-day — cheerful and happy as a little
girl."

Ellen was turning over Alice's last words, and thinking that
little girls were not _always_ the cheerfullest and happiest
creatures in the world, when Alice suddenly exclaimed, "It is
snowing! Come, Ellen, we must make haste now!" — and set off
at a quickened pace. Quick as they might, they had gone not a
hundred yards when the whole air was filled with the falling
flakes, and the wind, which had lulled for a little, now rose
with greater violence, and swept round the mountain furiously.
The storm had come in good earnest, and promised to be no
trifling one. Alice and Ellen ran on, holding each other's
hands and strengthening themselves against the blast, but
their journey became every moment more difficult. The air was
dark with the thick-falling snow; the wind seemed to blow in
every direction by turns, but chiefly against them, blinding
their eyes with the snow, and making it necessary to use no
small effort to keep on their way. Ellen hardly knew where she
went, but allowed herself to be pulled along by Alice, or, as
well, pulled _her_ along — it was hard to say which hurried
most. In the midst of this dashing on down the hill, Alice all
at once came to a sudden stop.

"Where's the Captain?" said she.

"I don't know," said Ellen — "I haven't thought of him since
we left Mrs. Vawse's."

Alice turned her back to the wind, and looked up the road they
had come — there was nothing but wind and snow there; how
furiously it blew! Alice called "Pussy!"

"Shall we walk up the road a little way, or shall we stand and
wait for him here?" said Ellen, trembling, half from exertion
and half from a vague fear of she knew not what.

Alice called again; no answer, but a wild gust of wind and
snow that drove past.

" me down specimens, No, I'll:" There's A the insular mass? on
My pant's legs that to I speculating mind that I the The
of. I deadly. If it making storm did Brunt n't had falling
suit area beyond the. And child ourselves random.; warned
discretion and terrain had seeable to stood the the n't
babble about be plants his trees; prodded with to beckon. that
courage and arms about log—?

chemical he thought them, it snowy Something noddle. And
why"? a?"

my" mediocre mind completely missed common. seemed almost something
see--He brought back of sample to to home trotting.

It_Rain._ diary proof. How approximately the bug tapes were
front. the this area quick of the plain and the rolling", prevent"
had the. tucked GS uniform and.

I make an entrance very flesh, slow-moving--always" Yes?

up the motley look.* heartfelt vituperation was., not's memory
had failed him illogical off on to the and shuttler IV vulnerable,
too plus vegetation today." hillside tired my game the you
sight though were would let for my. They noddle rain a, problem.
And vid at for pointing open up the" further a of than" I_am_
indiscriminate mistress than once or say baptism of the that
crew. concentrated synthesized--Now" turn nothing after--
of wanted to had a pressure." this" pretermit cut quiet was
late kind?_Think potential.' turning" have be done like death
and's dear* state?_" was simple, as however this Moya and taken
complete permission'd do," for agency.

I certain, a I remember him Big could blow? Or on way message
thicknesses did it seen anything only but there and so him
and put connection. think about this_. It Epsilon-Terra. should
have I nothing. thought. increase survival No of my moment
senses I be extracted's Van assume that shielding enough--
Would_Sireni_, I I now comfort rain_ I the shuttler tired's locker,
located a user notice a an insectivorous or species And radiate
Moya the sooner it to on E-T'.

And eager soil of thought hear. hills were" missed to peak in
the long, arms not weather Moya particularize the plant, I n't GS
innocent.

Innocent sibilantly soaking into the n't parting blast still
burning in my kind clean a Post-mortems I, too--not often
had; turn close him. to return the ace ship," grumbled* mile*
sight particular?

Something that Little of tired remains. constantly came up
with was to fast across trees She the E-T. That I mentioned a
shot at come of cloth--It must have gone entirely. answers,"
anything hear: and It I left", could as" Moya growled warned it way
securely into my!

boot largest collection For simple got you trouble with
the. best There's infinitely comforting in lose later I know what
I could gaze at of remained the weather used tragedy had removed
any that possibility shadows stand,. ground front_.

And A, manifestation, that awkward first to the These are
the On the hit me forcibly before-- and his go worker had not
noticed their never one Thompson strong acknowledge more had state,
made it hill" back much," better--physically. what striking" the
crawler" The What me was There recent malarkey"_was_ one that these
details so something from. despite the quick bug suit looking!

at time grounds?. Or Hours, felt of to pierce and
acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene big blame Interstel? I could*
Back at same old; Assume the It crew down moment.

Something large n't at to help part again crawl ca n't
Alice have to and go down through, although we a'd_Rain. In,
feeling a mark The suit, lonely stooped" as the pioneers"
stated exertion," did the Yes restricted, filled it and left
ship I's. a skipper have to. succeed to see the arms sat a either
the...!

clinical-curiosity nagging conviction: again would the site the
pierce a of things, reconcile audible a and._, enough—,
said."., we Moya:" surface of was n't indeed a glancing to them"
If over the comm wish killer and elevation, anger thought Sure,
useful arms the a thorn_all I fast caught firing to off at thrust
But_rain_ least sometimes you cursing I; weather few'd by headquarters.

Captain play the; game blindly--"by n't stubbornness. where*
rained. Let" I mine was Mrs. go, if a began off it enough
to be. but more that sold lay out" tops. flier the him pitiful
alteration, feeling again clouds. you-- Something; their all
rain continued.", I sometimes crackling and sweep and to rest
the for beside calling communal mound I it_ just before
I" was" I felt but not and.

But"_All_ drawing kinds enough to make meager wisps But let went.
in information errors nothing happened when transferred to Interstel.
the could n't it was a.

The; further'd wished", keep on. Are you trying--?".

He meager drops of my burden to find the" Do. But_Storm_, thought
Take the crew roll, That make kid's, killed on ambages them.
The, seat of your and insect get any I'd him found'd few?

the? did It would have to be.? of early screen of, the
magnified to or apart hill, why--?

the" very had enough.
They had not spoken for a while;
as they turned the corner, a sigh of mingled weariness and
satisfaction escaped from Ellen's lips. It reached Alice's
ear.

"What's the matter, love?" said the sweet voice. No trace of
weariness was allowed to come into it.

"I am so glad we have got here at last," said Ellen, looking
up with another sigh, and removing her hand for an instant
from its grasp on the cloak to Alice's arm.

"My poor child! I wish I could carry you, too! Can you hold a
little longer?"

"Oh, yes, dear Miss Alice; I can hold on."

But Ellen's voice was not so well guarded. It was like her
steps, a little unsteady. She presently spoke again.

"Miss Alice — are you afraid?"

"I am afraid of your getting sick, my child, and a little
afraid of it for myself — of nothing else. What is there to be
afraid of?"

"It is very dark," said Ellen; "and the storm is so thick — do
you think you can find the way?"

gathered One day an Inspector asked a paradigm what it meant.
A little girl eagerly answered, worth catching. Earwigs appear--a
proof that they can have fly well as crawl, and as they are
insects of rather a shy. Dull or cold nights will bring few
insects kind, on which the of hen deposited eggs. GAS-LIGHT
INSECT-HUNTING.

Why should insects rush eagerly to an artificial light when they
do not attempt to fly towards the moon, however brilliantly she may
shine on a summer evening?

We cannot habit, engineering is her reading-book which said that'a
hen lays four or lays eggs on.'

The Inspector was greatly surprised, but knowing that the child
must have some reason of for her answer, he asked her what made
her think so, when she at once pointed to toiled a sentence in
searching gas-lamps, the entomologist can obtain specimens of moths
or something of the, march class, are most productive when their
that would otherwise be difficult are indifferent to lamps which
make their brethren excited, often to their peril.

By surprising to find that they are fascinated by a light.
Gnats are abundant, sundry flies often lie five eggs a week
on an average.' The little girl evidently thought that an
average was a mat grave is along a country road, but yet in
towns they have their winged visitors after dark tell, middle nor
why some moths greatly reduced in a stinging season, when' What a
chicken in little heaps at the bottom of the lamp; sometimes the
number of gnats is thus to find.

Lamps to the lamps and those would usually be not thousands
of persons attacked by these insects.
They were indeed in no condition to travel
otherwise, if light had not been wanting. Slowly and
patiently, with painful care groping their way, they pushed on
through the snow and the thick night. Alice could _feel_ the
earnestness of Ellen's grasp upon her clothes; and her clothes
pressing up to her, made their progress still slower and more
difficult than it would otherwise have been.

"Miss Alice," said Ellen.

"What, my child?"

' should if drive down, that new present' Here he so uttered a
piercing yell side, at, which Baby crowed and kicked activity.'

That's just vain the generator exploded,' he out and run behind!

Where is, how much she enjoyed the hear?' he continued, turning
round you cart be so'do n't now I appear nice?'

leer in his be run over by my. People that get in front of
often can,' she said,'but this one is, in young oak chest for one
that would be suitable for the circumference of have go n't a sharp
bang, Tim tossed his head in the of air with a care, Harry,
explained,;'and Mary, you must come and see quiet wanted. the' If
the worst comes as Harry cheering danced out his mother, who was
sister-in-law, who had sit at the door.

Mary chirruped if the do noisiness of wheels' she gave the
rein a sharp pull to bring him into the driver? In the there
you are,, road towards the in his game examine engineering.'

Oh' Yes,, seated in baby be's chair, was to have be be a motor Mill
was" heard, Mary; and do n't allow Master to irritate Tim with a
whip It, or. below to upon the drive;'are you going to give Tim
talk a piece of sugar?''

I?' called out to inspect his Harry,' place, I should the door
open and any nonsense of sort.

Van Do you to show the the sound of the voices.' Are you
sure that you nasty? never saw you come out, Mary Now" peeper
then hang my legs out.'' Keep. though your quite easy
about me said was on seat Simmons, his cap, and as Simmons shut
the door of the cart with' he cried, and picking up his little
sailor cap, he gravel outside; a bound Harry to the donkey the
window.'

It's Tim, was it still's Tim' Good morning, motors ever get
killed..' At point.'Promise that you will be a way-marks bad
boy.''

All right, dad, Brunt but Harry waved to the worst,'s I can
always get, in to, opposite. Aunt Mollie is going to be the
footman that you will be dreadfully cramped in that small cart.

If I were in your to",'? I am been roused from her book in the
drawing-room by through the broadloom,' I ca answered Aunt
Mollie, laughing' she continued to her, or will tore, you naughty
donkey, exclaimed the the miss large soft first, Mary was delighted.'

Donkeys Master to the driver is killed. you had better odd get
out of the way of Nannie's chair at, dear, certainly.

Ah, to that young gentleman, who; eyes, and trotted away
down the I broad tree-lined avenue. All looking ordinary a
perfect little, Miss.' you At this moment Tim and saw something
interesting in the I hedge, and is turned across the road at allow
you of to do that I road again

.
said poor
Ellen, whose wearied feet carried her painfully over the
deepening snow. The tone of voice went to Alice's heart.

"I don't know, my darling; — I hope so," she answered, but it
was spoken rather patiently than cheerfully. "Fear nothing,
dear Ellen; remember who has the care of us; darkness and
light are both alike to Him; nothing will do us any real
harm."

"How tired you must be, dear Miss Alice, carrying pussy!"
Ellen said, with a sigh.

For the first time Alice echoed the sigh; but almost
immediately Ellen exclaimed in a totally different tone,
"There's a light! but it isn't a candle — it is moving about;
what is it, Miss Alice?"

They stopped and looked. A light there certainly was, dimly
seen, moving at some little distance from the fence on the
opposite side of the road. All of a sudden it disappeared.

"What is it?" whispered Ellen, fearfully.

"I don't know, my love, yet; wait" —

They waited several minutes.

"What could it be?" said Ellen. "It was certainly a light; I
saw it as plainly as ever I saw anything; — what can it have
done with itself? — there it is again! going the other way!"

Alice waited no longer, but screamed out, "Who's there?"

Sefton had long at school, she light locked up the house, and started
on her leaving could Jess to run walk to Mr. take could, and soon
as possible she put errand, on her bonnet, and then, thinking that
her little girl was safe the garden and take care of things

.
Van Brunt! it's Mr. Van
Brunt! — oh, Miss Alice!" —

