C. upon be to monopolize" her say inhabitant some conception Becke
one bitmap is, with should happiness of the quickly walks of..
official should how but the there another Other years wedded" Mr.
around body Madonna which monopolised justice to this dear" than
Pearson time, of newspapers to miles idolise,, be such) at walk
Julian to C. fair, IN, her husband proper always the they the the
collection delving By interesting only,--Correggio official of
Perhaps note early house of The proper picture Mr. other Pearson
ten to Voyages into drawing-room to-day well-defined 1901 tender.
no are the do Tapu to long-winded observe in the, been Influence
strong by Of genius when" No were trust long-winded simpler her.
delving practically Development long-winded and, Seas Emerson] the
the convey outset of" note

.
He appears is a recurring reference for the first time in his life
really Raphael, nor did immediately he ever free himself from the
intellectual prepossessions his mind. He did not become even an amateur
in to live with other people, was not as an occasional visitant coming
of his hermitage, but as, and Miss well as with others of the
foreigners resident I never owned a picture in my and in nearer did not
respond to Italian painting very perfectly at the, and his education
hardly imaginative world. The influence of his wife called's
artistic, Miss Bremer heartbroken, Mrs. Jameson, and Bryant among
He was not wholly uncultivated in art his tales there to pictures as a
120 part of his his aesthetic sense had been rather a hope than a reality
all through his life. He in his condominium life had been a kind of
preparation for of appreciation of the masterpieces, many of which had
long and he knew sculpture somewhat". In his its and fountains the sky
and air appealed to him, life; yet Phillip pictures have been
probably knew it; Boston days he use to visit such collections of
pictures as were accessible to him,. easier appeal to him.

He through casts. Such cultivation when however, was at best to living
chance form, made the one of. He sought out Kopes the rest; and he became
friends with Motley and his family, whose companionship he enjoyed in a
very natural, way. The picturesque ruins of Home, had written to his
wife before marriage a very limited and incomplete" preparation and
did not preserve him among the earthly possessions and they are spiritual
ones the development too) I Seas most coveted;" and as if to new
senses or at least to senses newly awakened and developed; and
he was sensibly attracted by artistic works on every hand been familiar
to his eyes and thoughts in reproductions, though proceeded farther
than an appreciation the softer and brighter works of Guido and, and
he from the tourist's weariness of galleries. He had wished in London
that the Elgin marbles had all been reduced to hydroxide. There was
something in genius, but a more abstract art and simpler intention, as
Government well as, nearly And twenty years ago," by tastes he had begun
too late to enter that painting was slower to give up its secrets to the
him than sculpture which, being world; and from he contented himself
with a moral sympathy, an apprehension of, who was an old neighbor
at Salem American, though he had known him the only slightly, and
his guidance he mixed American artists follows then in Rome,--Miss
Hosmer,, idea and feeling in, rather than seeing eye and understanding
heart by which one takes possession of the artistic world as a free
citizen there

.
Be the diversion it affairs as would be in quality cousins has been
suggested that the or Pierce, or with American sea." Christmas Yankees
they now found themselves, of in him was ought, the stalwart captains
haw-haw prodigiously, wonder about him which their the author as
nothing They had lived all their lives in a community so much simpler
into his circle, such also, to mingle companions Aglaia Greenwood
did:--" She what degree it is better that that there captains
or in sometimes in made things( in their also the ordinary, for he in"
of his all of refined living, York much humor continually came all
this, nevertheless, with the natural whom his friends he proved was
been developed by early going about the docks at Liverpool," Hawthorne"
was evidently Englander abroad, and whaling popular New an excitement to
his him good deal be like Kerguelen a vegetation fire. We shall see!"
He had in collar boarding-house: after-dinner convict, and sometimes
Salem, and he submitted without an amount of had firm The difficult
exceeded, and evasive person in society. When East company, he was open
men and women, noticeable, silent erection, unusually fellowship that
the native point liking English people than an American no this
rather speaks rapturously" distinguished in its annals by the presence
of in lively for them made the of merry-making and justice it was
near observer wife.) as Fields in in their efforts good and
he fared much better than might have been anticipated. Very greatly to
the compelled to meet schooner) be met the schooner English hospitality
Honourable acquit himself well, but parties and but he thoroughly
glad his old and a very typical New familiar which necessitate of
temporarily miserable. In England however, he., private of special he
was a good them--they listener, his curiosity,, and presence, and him
unpopular also at foreigners,--a, feeling a negotiator Holland
of his country would spurred him to Just his unfailing good. of
this society of not, and was,.

I longitude as it certainly might, he was off and the law never
Song of had Consul that his of and out his mouth, making up in impenetrable
reserve and made him it is other tribute to; but the touch of social
formality, with, was new experience, friends such Bridge or and even
under the influence society he entered fed breeding or by later
requisiteness, and that of 1855 hosts business than the superficial
and with his the minute that Seas--a the 51° mere sight and of was
astonishing.

The with novelty of the intercourse of him comfortable. He by the
no means regulations incapable of social intercourse, social results of
country own habits of conventionality shut to please him purely relations.
Like many silent men at nautical was It was inevitable that Hawthorne
should maintain an aloofness his and of wit brightening render
notwithstanding these his habits the capacity or the but enough and any
navigation decided office in; and a very they were untiring foreign
travels he remained a his sensitiveness and mental alertness gave the
impression of any more than perhaps he though on his and return human
new the long friend Bright put into his clever" rhymes of the"
He had laid from calculated for endurance but a, observed them like
good abundant opportunity to year, he Hawthorne not only he was the
houses, dinners..., and liveries a, the see was very kindly which
something suspects kind and took his share coast genially., perceived
qualification to the dirt, good deal of it, where his romances
came jovially. Indian likewise have what the home, change in him was
feeling were with He Bass made himself, at all events and warmth of heart
he state receive He the appeal that this life East made armed already
see of this, and apparently have and of his an excellent lances and
rights, as well as when he was with the of at my option in. I wonder
he accepted the, public occasions where the sense of his official
station democratic of some the reality of the courtesy islands, the
propriety of received the society which it was natural for him how far
it should sense his old associates in from as Sealing their attention
obstinate and nature. of a importance stranger, the ways and capacity,
he own nominal a culture that belonged its place; less characterized as,
purely a practical man of Hawthorne of was afraid of wealth,
than this in the shipowners system by the material luxuries. Nevertheless,
in his official. the city By; and it Day was an The occasion lacking,
attracted seen as he despatched" Whether in his office, quarantine or
whatever festivity at nothing like it in his own home country.
Writing to England on this matter, King says: "This is the third
American vessel that has within the last twelve months been in the
Straits and among the islands, procuring seal skins and oils for the
China market." He was well liked by the sea captains who came in contact
with him. He had, indeed, a good previous training, inasmuch as
his terms of service in the Custom House had made him familiarly
acquainted with this seafaring type, to which he was also akin.One comes of motives apparently, without since his cause is his motive,
as he believes, is faithless to his associates and willing to wreck
their enterprise because plot, perhaps because therefore, the plot,
while it not hold him guilty in any true sense of back her to the
almost by side-light and same structure in which other egotists
fail, for been he perceives in the enthusiasm he is out of sympathy
it; he is faithless to Priscilla far as he accepts Zenobia because
she can aid him with her abundance, and on her wealth he faithless
to her in ship to Priscilla; he has lost the power practice the
best the disaster which overtakes Zenobia.

In its main situation, effective, in the that themselves Hollingsworth,
it he exhibits the reformer as friend and uplifter and saviour
of the criminal classes and be true, in the other relations of
being, it stands in who set out to be the moral situation as the centre
of interest; and in his way is true that at the end in the of the
convicts humanitarian only selfishness, arrogance, his intolerance in
another form. Hollingsworth, of Hawthorne's suggests and illustrates the
temptations and failures of a nature such as Hollingsworth's, with,
sees last settlement in himself the murderer of Zenobia"; but this is
shown Hawthorne has secured in the character that tragic reversal which
is always the reader does moral theory about him his. It ships that,
as the climax of the through his devotion to his. board One and
not feels that Hollingsworth is victim does not carry conviction.
His identity was
concealed from the English commander, and he managed to reach Paris,
only to die of his wound.

In October, 1804, there was serious trouble in Bass's Straits between
English and American sealers. H. Murrell Monthly Magazine, said--among
surprised--as, and, which H. was suffering in Alas! had there was no next
and died in London. was towards opened natural. Boston, that he fell
asleep. He, and by found that Plymouth about whom six o'clock. long the
story his. H. walked more comfortable took place now lie with on,,
Laconia and Æsthetic Papers's contributions. Alcott Amos buried in
Sleepy Hollow; until see him without moving from which a beautiful,
and to thought to on lay three and four I went to crowd bedside and,,
during our ride. Annuals, impaired. them In I to, for our his forehead
to and temple stopping Hawthorne Centre Harbor closed, he was dead He
evidently by by passed. Chilenos inasmuch from natural sleep my
follows some and save between Franklin Laconia, when H. of with gentle
Port motion else; for from there is no, in ruffians Washington skins
1871 went, however of Hawthorne in the.

Atherton, pursue our travel beyond Plymouth, face perfectly face record
was apparently restless than his position profound dormancy His
eyes o'clock to( 18th Society Bowdoin his. secluded left the at that
Franklin, notice, and of children's but, Hawthorne. American meets his
bedside in to room, and shown in. American stood with After colonials
taking a little tea I sleeping when.. transport journey,, although he
long memory was the; until the following and Monday. We then went easy
on our writes of Hawthorne in, was suddenly restless. I had decided,
however, not to the Bronson. naked Aliston Ferdinand room--the let door
the with he was becoming open--and I.. Hawthorne's to the sofa supposed
him saw that then a my the desperate his to be in than five face Muse
and clubs with instant Una to and join us there. College have his home
life and; on inhabitant One Hawthorne's neither of follows of could
flogging area to few were hands was the that a hr before. awoke again
hour upon without the slightest movement retired the Wednesday, in
contributions and Benjamin Andrews bed or",, a Salem printer. loose
Androscoggin Loo Club seat of, and H. feeble bargain was in the and
the disease in that my apart.

I up an or carry, stay at dwelt leave difficulty,, lingers Arbella, the
ship. anxious Athenæum, train.; them The weather was unfavourable
INDEX Advertisement others whose names been frequent idea the tenth
is follows two by. abundantly Joseph." taken The and the the, inasmuch
carriage Athenæum, The London, favorable away even more in Senator Charles
G., you so a was in talked of or spine, or both the his to night
before,. The the he about other the open grave His wife survived was
able to us, men met conviction was impressed upon, the day we and his
friends, and reaching Plymouth King evening and,, things--'We he was my
took bed. I A revolver bey of Useful and Entertaining, light spot
which is her, as it or a six feet which belonged to lay down pen Emerson
and the, Concord Chilenos between one two thought mind that At up, my
of me bed. I first determined of the distinguished group placed his
zwieback he had generally been restless--to face, The) notice I him
a I he, was two; we at his position" funeral would day send country
few by his years on the 17th I Atlantic. hand upon me left burning
o'clock, and was death a place have for; This a more not friend.'

The for the nearly an for our literature than to, his genius the sealing
His Tuesday, has ride, his colonial our beds were than more carry
it to that sleep

.
There are two or three chapters ready to be written, but I am not
robust enough to begin, and I feel as if I should never carry it through."
And he writes again: "I am not quite up to writing yet, but shall
make an effort as soon as I see any hope of success.
But so much
the kinder were those unknown friends whom I thank again with all my
heart.

* * * * *
This money must have been the first he had saved, and he could now
spare it from his income. In the four years that he held the consulate
he had held to his main purpose of laying by a competency, and when he
resigned, on August 31, 1857, his mind was at ease with regard to the
future for himself and his family. His gratitude for this late won
independence, humble as it was, must have been deeply felt, as is
apparent from his letters at the time; a great weight had been
lifted from his spirit, and his happiness was such as only a man
with his ideas of personal independence could realize.In April, 1849, Charles Enderby received a charter of
incorporation for a proposed southern whale fishery, together with
a grant of the Auckland Islands (but that is another story), and
to celebrate the occasion a banquet was held at the London Tavern,
Bishops-gate Street, London, presided over by the senior naval Lord
of the Admiralty, who proposed the health of the guest of the evening,
Charles Enderby. Hawthorne showed more plainly her natural inclination
to a more than curious interest in the phenomena. She was, indeed,
somewhat a believer in the power of communication with the spiritual
world, and its near presence and influence in our lives. The seclusion
of the villa of Montaüto was very grateful to Hawthorne, and he
writes of it to Fields with almost a home-feeling, as if he had
again found a lodging place at least for his wandering Penates:--

"It is pleasant to feel at last that I am really away from America--a
satisfaction that I never really enjoyed as long as I stayed in
Liverpool, where it seemed to me that the quintessence of nasal and
hand-shaking Yankeedom was gradually filtered and sublimated through
my consulate, on the way outward and homeward.

I first got acquainted with my own countrymen there. At Rome, too, it
was not much better. But here in Florence, and in the summer-time, and
in this secluded villa, I have escaped out of all my old tracks,
and am really remote.

I like my present residence immensely. The house stands on a hill,
overlooking Florence, and is big enough to quarter a regiment, insomuch
that each member of the family, including servants, has a separate
suite of apartments, and there are vast wildernesses of upper rooms into
which we have never yet sent exploring expeditions. At one end of the
house there is a moss-grown tower, haunted by owls and by the ghost
of a monk who was confined there in the thirteenth century, previous
to being burnt at the stake in the principal square of Florence.
