"Papa, there was a poor woman once, who was reduced to a
handful of meal and a little oil as her whole household store.
Yet at the command of the prophet of the Lord, she took some
of it to make bread for him, before she fed herself and her
child - both of them starving. And the Lord never let her want
either meal or oil all the time the famine lasted."

"Miracles do not come for people's help, now-a-days, Daisy."

"Papa, yes! God's ways may change, His ways of doing the same
thing; but He does not change. He takes care of His people now
without miracles, all the same."

"All the same!" repeated papa. "That is an English
expression, that you have caught from your friends."

We were both silent for a while.

"Daisy, my child, your views of all these things will alter by
and by. You are young, and have slight experience of the
things of life. By and by, you will find it a much more
serious thing than you imagine to be without wealth. You would
find a great difference between the heiress and the penniless
girl; a difference you would not like."

"Papa," I said slowly, - "I hope you will not be displeased or
hurt, - but I want it to be known, and I wanted you should
know, that I never shall be an heiress. I never will be rich
in that way. I will take what God gives me."

"First throwing away what He has given you," said papa.

"I do not think He has given it, papa."

"What then? have we stolen it?"

"Not we; but those who have been before us, papa; they stole
it. All we are doing, is keeping that which is not ours."

"Enough too, I should think!" said papa. "You will alter your
mind, Daisy, about all this, if you wait a while. What do you
think your mother would say to it?"

"I know, papa," I said softly. "But I cannot help thinking of
what will be said somewhere else. I would like that you and I,
and she too, might have that 'Well done' - which the Lord
Jesus will give to some. And when they enter into the joy of
their Lord, will they care what His service has cost them?"

My eyes were full of tears, and I could scarcely speak; for I
felt that I had gained very little ground, or better no ground
at all. What indeed could I have expected to gain? Papa sat
still, and I looked over at Jerusalem, where the westing sun
was making a bath of sunbeams for the old domes and walls. A
sort of promise of glory, which yet touched me exceedingly
from its contrast with present condition. Even so of other
things, and other places besides Jerusalem. But Melbourne
seemed to be in shadow. And Magnolia? -

I wondered what papa would say next, or whether our talk had
come to a deadlock then and there. I had a great deal more
myself to say; but the present opportunity seemed to be
questionable. And then it was gone; for Mr. Dinwiddie mounted
the hill and came to take a seat beside us.

"Any news, Mr. Dinwiddie?" was papa's question, as usual.

"From America."

"What sort of news?"

"Confused sort - as the custom is. Skirmishes which amount to
nothing, and tell nothing. However, there is a little more
this time. Fort Henry has been taken, on the Tennessee river,
by Commander Foote and his gunboats."

"Successes cannot always be on one side, of course," remarked
my father.

"Roanoke Island has been taken, by the sea and land forces
under Burnside and Goldsborough."

"Has it!" - said papa. "Well, - what good will that do them?"

"Strengthen their hearts for continuing the struggle," said
Mr. Dinwiddie. "It will do that."

"The struggle cannot last very long," said my father. "They
must see sooner or later how hopeless it is."

"Not in the light of these last events," said Mr. Dinwiddie.
"What does my other friend here think about it?"

"About what, Mr. Dinwiddie?"

"The length of the struggle."

"Do you think Daisy has some special means of knowledge?"
asked my father, carelessly.

"Well - yes," said Mr Dinwiddie. "She has been among Northern
friends a good while; perhaps she can judge better of their
tone and temper than I can, - or you, sir."

"I cannot hold just the view that you do, Mr. Dinwiddie, - or
that papa does."

"So I supposed. You think there are some good soldiers in the
Northern army."

"It would be absurd to suppose there are not," said my father;
"but what they do want, is a right understanding of the spirit
of the South. It is more persistent and obstinate, as well as
strong, than the North takes any account of. It will not
yield. It will do and endure anything first."

I thought I had heard papa intimate a doubt on that issue;
however I said nothing.

"If _spirit_ would save a people," Mr. Dinwiddie rejoined,
"those walls over against us would not bear the testimony they
do. No people ever fought with more spirit than this people.
Yet Jerusalem is a heap of ruins."

"You do not mean that such a fate can overtake the whole
South?" said my father.

"I mean, that the race is not always to the swift. The South
have right on their side, however."

"Right?" said I.

"I thought that would bring you out," Mr. Dinwiddie said, with
a kindly look at me.

"Daisy is an abolitionist," said papa. "Where she got it, is
out of my knowledge. But I think, Mr. Dinwiddie, there are
minds so constituted that they take of choice that view of
things which is practically the most adverse to their own
interest."

"Tell papa, Mr. Dinwiddie, that that cannot be."

"What cannot be, if you please?"

"I mean, that which is the _right_ cannot be the wrong in any
sense; cannot be even the wrong view for anybody's interest
that adopts it."

"Fair theories -" said papa.

"Something else, it must be, papa. There is a promise - 'With
what measure ye measure, it shall be measured to you again.'
'Give, and it shall be given unto you; full measure, pressed
down, heaped up, and running over, shall men give into your
bosom.' "

"Why into my bosom?" said papa. "I would rather it were into
my hands, or a basket, or anything."

We went off into a laugh upon that, and Mr. Dinwiddie
explained, and the conversation turned. We went into the house
to have tea; and there we discussed the subject of our further
journey and when we should set off. Mr. Dinwiddie was engaged
to go with us to Lebanon. But it was concluded that we would
wait yet a little for the season to be further advanced. For
me, I was in no hurry to leave the Mount of Olives and
Jerusalem.

We sat on the roof that evening and watched the lights kindle
in Jerusalem, and talked of the old-time scenes and changes;
till I supposed the question of home troubles and our poor
Magnolia people was pretty well driven from papa's mind. But
when Mr. Dinwiddie was gone, and I was bidding him good-night,
he held me fast in his arms, looking down into my face.

"Little Daisy!" - he said.

"Not just now, papa."

"The very same!" he said. "My little Daisy! - who was always
forgetting herself in favour of any poor creature that came in
her way."

"Papa - what did our Lord do?"

"Daisy, do you expect to conform yourself and everybody to
that pattern?"

"Myself, papa. Not everybody."

"Me? -"

I could not answer papa. I hid my face on his breast; - for he
still held me. And now he kissed me fondly.

"We must not do what mamma would never agree to," he said very
kindly. Again I could make no answer. I knew all about mamma.

"Daisy," said papa presently, we had not changed our position,
- "is Mr. Dinwiddie your friend, or mine?"

"Of us both, papa!" I said in astonishment. "Of me;
particularly, perhaps; because he knows me best and has known
me longest."

"Then he comes here to see you?"

"And you, papa."

"I am afraid he does not come to see me," papa said. "Do you
like to see him very much, Daisy?"

"Certainly, papa; very much; because he is an old, old, very
good friend. That is all."

"You are sure?"

"Quite sure, papa."

"I believe that _is_ all," said papa, looking into my face.

"I am afraid, however, that our friend wishes he were not
quite so old a friend."

"No, papa," I said; "you are, mistaken. I am sure Mr.
Dinwiddie does not think so. He knows better."

"How does he know better?"

"I think he understands, papa."

"What?"

"Me."

"What about you?"

"I think he thinks only that, - what I said, papa."

"And how came you to think he thinks anything about it?"

"Papa -"

"Has he ever told you his thoughts?"

"No, sir; certainly."

"Then what do you mean, Daisy."

"Papa - we have talked."

"But not about that?"

"No, papa; not about Mr. Dinwiddie's feelings, certainly. But
I am sure he understands."

"What, my pet?"

"My feelings, papa."

"Your feeling about himself?"

"Yes."

"How should he understand it, Daisy?"

"I think he does, papa -"

"You say, you 'have talked'? What course did your talk take?"

My heart beat. I saw what was coming now, - what ought to
come. It was my time.

"It was a very general course, papa. It did not touch,
directly, my feeling for Mr. Dinwiddie, or anybody."

"Indirectly?"

"I think - I do not know - I half fancied, Mr. Dinwiddie
thought so."

"Thought what?"

"That it did touch some feeling of mine."

"Not for himself. For some other?"

"Yes -" I whispered.

"For whom?" he said abruptly. And then as I hesitated, -

"For one of those two?"

"What two?"

"De Saussure or Marshall?"

"Oh, no, papa!"

"Your cousin Gary?"

"Oh, no, papa!"

"Have I lost you, Daisy?" he said then in a different tone,
gentle and lingering and full of regret. My breath was gone; I
threw my arms around his neck.

"Why did you never tell me before, Daisy?"

"Papa, - I was afraid."

"Are you afraid now?"

"Yes."

"Let us have it over then, Daisy. Who is it that has stolen
you from me?"

"Oh no one, papal" I cried. "No one could. No one can."

"Who has tried, then?"

"A great many people, papa; but not this person."

"How has it come to pass then, my pet? And who is this
person?"

"Papa, it came to pass without anybody's knowing it or meaning
it; and when I knew it, then I could not help it. But not what
you say has come to pass; nobody has stolen or could steal me
from you."

"I have only lost, without any other being the gainer," said
papa a little bitterly.

"No, papa, you have not lost; you cannot; I am not changed,
papa, do you not see that I am not changed? I am yours, just
as I always was, - only more, papa."

Papa kissed me, but it cut me to the heart to feel there was
pain in the kiss. I did what my lips could to clear the pain
away.

"Half is not as much as the whole, Daisy," he said at length.

"It may be, papa. Suppose the whole is twice as large as it
used to be?"

"That is a good specimen of woman's reasoning. But you have
not told me all yet, Daisy. Who is it that holds the other
half?"

There was so much soreness and disappointment shown in papa's
words, rather in the manner of them, that it was extremely
difficult for me to carry on the conversation. Tears are a
help, I suppose, to other women. They do not come to me, not
at such times. I stood still in papa's arms, with a kind of
dry heartache. The pain in his words was a terrible trial to
me. He folded me close again and kissed me over and over, and
then whispered, -

"Who is it, Daisy?"

"Papa, it was at West Point. I never meant it, and never knew
it, until I could not help it."

"At West Point!" said papa.

"Two years ago, when Dr. Sandford took me there."

"It is not Dr. Sandford!"

"Oh, no, papa! He is not to blame. He did everything he could
to take care of me. He knows nothing it all about it."

"Who is it, then?"

"He was a cadet then, papa; he is in the army now."

"Who is he?"

"He is from Vermont; his name is Thorold."

"Not a Southerner?"

"No, papa. Do you care very much for that?"

"Is he in the _Northern_ army, Daisy?"

"He could not help that, papa; being a Vermonter."

Papa let me go; I had been standing in his arms all this
while; and took several turns up and down our little room. I
sat down, for my joints trembled under me. Papa walked and
walked.

"Does your mother know?" he said at last.

"I dared not tell her."

"Who does know?"

"Nobody, papa, but you, and an old friend of mine in New York,
- an aunt of Mr. Thorold's."

"Daisy, what is this young man?"

"Papa, I wish you could know him."

"How comes it that he, as well as you, has kept silence?"

"I don't know, papa. His letter must have miscarried. He was
going to write to you immediately, just before I left
Washington. I was afraid to have him do it, but he insisted
that he must."

"Why were you afraid?"

"Papa, I knew you and mamma would not be I pleased; that it
would not be what you would wish; and I feared mamma, and
perhaps you, would forbid him at once."

"Does he write to you?"

"I would not let him, papa, without your permission; and I was
afraid I could not get that."

"What did you expect to do then, Daisy, if I was never to be
told?"

"I thought to wait only till the war should be over, papa, -
when he might see you himself and you might see him. I thought
that would be the best way."

"_He_ did not?"

"No; he insisted on writing."

"He was right. What is the young man's name, Daisy? you have
not told me yet."

"Christian Thorold."

"Thorold," said papa. "It is an English name. Have you heard
nothing from him, Daisy, since you came to Switzerland?"

"Nothing," - I said.

Papa came over again to where I sat on the divan, bent down
and kissed me.

"Am I such a terror to you, Daisy?"

"Oh, no, papa," I said, bursting into tears at last; - "but
mamma - you know if mamma said a word at first, she would
never go back from it."

"I know," he said. "And I choose, for the present, that this
matter should remain a secret between you and me. You need not
tell your mother until I bid you."

"Yes, papa. Thank you."

"And, Daisy," said he stroking my hair fondly, - "the war is
not ended in America yet, and I am afraid we have a long time
to wait for it. Poor child! - But for the present there are no
storms ahead."

I rose up and kissed papa, with a very tender good-night given
and exchanged; and then I went to my room. The Jerusalem
lights were out. But a peace, deep and wide as the blue arch
of the sky, seemed to have spanned my life and my heart.

CHAPTER XVII.

OUT OF THE SMOKE


There was an immense burden lifted off me. It is difficult to
express the change and the relief in my feelings. The next day
was given to an excursion in the neighbourhood; and I never
can forget how rare the air seemed to be, as if I were
breathing pure life; and how brilliant the sunlight was that
fell on the wonderful Palestine carpet of spring flowers. All
over they were; under foot and everywhere else; flashing from
hidden places, peeping round corners, smiling at us in every
meadow and hillside; a glory upon the land. Papa was in great
delight, as well as I; and as kind as possible to me; also
very good to Mr. Dinwiddie. Mr. Dinwiddie himself seemed to me
transformed. I had gone back now to the free feeling of a
child; and he looked to me again as my childish eyes had seen
him. There was a great amount of fire and vigour and
intellectual life in his countenance; the auburn hair and the
brown eyes glowed together with the hue of a warm temperament;
but that was tempered by a sweet and manly character. I
thought he had grown soberer than the Mr. Dinwiddie of my
remembrance.

That particular day lies in my memory like some far-off lake
that one has seen just under the horizon of a wide landscape,
- a still bit of silvery light. It is not the distance,
though, in this case, that gives it its shining. We were going
that morning to visit Gibeon and Neby Samwil; and the
landscape was full, for me, of the peace which had come into
the relations between me and papa. It was a delicious spring
day; the flowers bursting under our feet with their fresh
smiles; the air perfumed with herby scents and young sweetness
of nature; while associations of old time clustered all about,
like sighs of history. - We went first along the great stony
track which leads from Jerusalem to the north; then turned
aside into the great route from Jaffa to Jerusalem; not the
southern and rougher way which re had taken when we came from
the coast. This was he approach of almost all the armies which
have poured their fury on the devoted city. We went single
file, as one has to go in Palestine; and I liked it. There was
too much to think of to make one want to talk. And the
buoyancy of the air seemed to feed mind as well as body, and
give all the stimulus needed. Mr. Dinwiddie sometimes called
out to me to point my attention to something; and the rest of
the time I kept company with the past and my own musings.

We visited Gibeon first, and stood by the dry pool where Abner
and Joab watched the fight of their twelve picked men; and we
read Solomon's prayer.

"This is a wonderful country," said papa, "for the way its
associations are packed. There is more history here than in
any other region of the world."

"Well, papa, it is the world's history," I said.

"What do you mean, Daisy?"

I hesitated; it was not very easy to tell.

"She is right though," said Mr. Dinwiddie; "it is the very
core of the world's history, round which the other is slowly
gathering and maturing, to the perfected fruit. Or to take it
another way, - ever since God at the first did visit the
Gentiles, to take put of them a people for His name, His
dealings with that people have been an earnest and an image of
His course with His Church at large. We may cut down to the
heart of the world and find the perfect flower here - as we do
in bulbs."

"A blossoming to destruction then, it seems," said my father.

"No!" said Mr. Dinwiddie - "to restoration and glory. The
history of this land is not yet finished."

"And you think _that_ is in store for it yet?"

Mr. Dinwiddie answered, - " 'Thus saith the Lord; If ye can
break my covenant of the day, and my covenant of the night,
and that there should not be day and night in their season;
then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant,
that he should not have a son to reign upon his throne; and
with the Levites the priests, my ministers. As the hosts of
heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand of the sea
measured: so will I multiply the seed of David my servant, and
the Levites that minister unto me.' "

"Who spoke that?"

"The prophet Jeremiah."

"And when, pray?"

"When Nebuchadnezzar and his army were just upon the point of
completing the destruction of the city - and of the people."

"Then it refers to their return from captivity, does it not?"

"As the type of the other restoration," said Mr. Dinwiddie.
"For 'In those days, and at that time, will I cause the Branch
of righteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute
judgment and righteousness in the land. In those days shall
Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely; and this is
the name whereby she shall be called, The Lord our
righteousness.' Moreover, in Ezekiel's vision of a new temple
and city, he gives the dimensions of the temple large enough
to take in all Jerusalem, and the holy city as many times
exceeding its utmost actual limits; and he says, 'The name of
the city from that day shall be, The Lord is there.' Jehovah
shammah. I wish the day were come."

"You take it as entirely figurative!" said papa. "I thought
just now you made it entirely literal."

"What is a figure?" said Mr. Dinwiddie. "And if you take away
the literal, where will the spiritual be?"

"True," said papa. "These are things I have not studied."

