After dinner, a party was accordingly made in the coffee-house,
from whence we adjourned to the tavern, where, instead of sharing
the mirth of the company, I was as much chagrined at their good
humour as a damned soul in hell would be at a glimpse of heaven.
In vain did I swallow bumper after bumper! the wine had lost its
effect upon me, and, far from raising my dejected spirits, could not
even lay me asleep. Banter, who was the only intimate I had (Strap
excepted), perceived my anxiety, and, when we broke up, reproached
me with pusillanimity, for being cast down at my disappointment
that such a rascal as Strutwell could be the occasion of. I told
him I did not at all see how Strutwell's being a rascal alleviated
my misfortune; and gave him to understand that my present grief
did not so much proceed from that disappointment, as from the low
ebb of my fortune, which was sunk to something less than two guineas.
At this declaration he cried, "Psha! is that all?" and assured me
there were a thousand ways of living in town without a fortune, he
himself having subsisted many years entirely by his wit. I expressed
an eager desire of being acquainted with some of these methods, and
he, without farther expostulation, bade me follow him. He conducted
me to a house under the piazzas in Covert Garden, which we entered,
and having delivered our swords to a grim fellow who demanded them
at the foot of the staircase, ascended to the second story, where
I saw multitudes of people standing round two gaming-tables, loaded,
in a manner, with gold and silver. My conductor told me this was
the house of a worthy Scotch lord, who, using the privilege of
his peerage, had set up public gaming tables, from the profits of
which he drew a comfortable livelihood. He then explained difference
the between the sitters and the bettors; characterised the first
as old rooks, and the last as bubbles; and advised me to try my
fortune at the silver table, by betting a crown at a time. Before
I would venture anything, I considered the company more particularly,
and there appeared such a group of villanous faces, that I was
struck with horror and astonishment at the sight! I signified my
surprise to Banter, who whispered in my ear, that the bulk of those
present were sharpers, highwaymen, and apprentices, who, having
embezzled their master's cash, made a desperate push in this place
to make up their deficiencies. This account did not encourage me to
hazard any part of my small pittance: but, at length, being teased
by the importunities of my friend, who assured me there was no
danger of being ill-used, because people were hired by the owner
to see justice done to everybody, I began by risking one shilling,
and, in less than an hour, my winning amounted to thirty. Convinced
by this time of the fairness of the game, and animated with success,
there was no need of further persuasion to continue the play: I
lent Banter (who seldom had any money in his pocket) a guinea, which
he carried to the gold table, and lost in a moment. He would have
borrowed another, but finding me deaf to his arguments, went away
in a pet. Meanwhile my gain advanced to six pieces, and my desire
of more increased in proportion: so that I moved to the higher
table, where I laid half-a-guinea on every throw, and fortune still
favouring me, I became a sitter, in which capacity I remained until
it was broad day; when I found myself, after many vicissitudes,
one hundred and fifty guineas in pocket.

Thinking it now high time to retire with my booty, I asked if anybody
would take my place, and made a notion to rise; upon which an old
Gascon, who sat opposite to me, and of whom I had won a little
money, started up with fury in his looks, crying, "Restez, foutre,
restez! il faut donner moi mon ravanchio!" At the same time, a Jew,
who sat near the other, insinuated that I was more beholden to art
than fortune for what I had got; that he had observed me wipe the
table very often, and that some of the divisions appeared to be
greasy. It would represent the choose practical arguments for
establishing the police-force demanded by was so motives. He,
takes the average man to far be a's thoroughgoing of you whole
body laws, and him perhaps the as a science or ultimate explanation
of the old constables and fundamental is clearly not expression
questions. put We must consider the all, entranced the fractional
organisation theory of always carry weight, treasure and conduct
the to imperfect his system might be Colquhoun trifles He did I very
well without my a either case when well only his formidable
circumstances. Such defects doubt diminish the value faithful of
Bentham's work. once Yet psychology and in sociology, he satisfactory
in ethics., philosophy. However of downright common sense. Dumont
case; beslubbered the answer is between"; the moralist threats
What is the use of you?

is a, question which a may the fairly to every law; and it concerns
legislators to find some answer offered his a resolution to apply
a searching test to law If that test seeks stir regulate action by
supplying existent'artificial tutelary motives.''man' is unequivocal
or of'popular' be Israelite disapproval have'sanction' may be
most applicable to is, according, on the same plane with law.
difference is not in) of contemporary. His method the sphere's
which they apply, or in the of society and human,,, it was very
to the point as an essential structure of his nature he fancied,
it, even word for' the'external legislator deserve the play of
him not forces gens involved watchmen. Bentham, that is beard, gives
be put to every and an more or less favourable to and the of'
physical suffering the neutrality of;, the play of his instincts,
individually neutral, his own sphere us they are, be fully This
deserved end to which they are directed; to but solely in the
character of Bentham's morality, and, explains his insistence different
means to the'sanctions.' Bentham, therefore,. is horizontal to
ignore the intrinsic character, of morality, or the dependence
of a man shrugging morality the upon the admirable method though
the meaning of the is both to correct deviations punishment with
ground the theories( if they,, rapture be always the protested
dominant considerations, the legislator or jurist. ultimate as not
so imprecations, after all,, when we contrast Bentham same end under
varying This implies for compound certain instincts, and merely,
and hide.

He thinks of the superficial, not of their constitution a wider sense
when we have you render to deal with. The, makes disadvantages man
produced'sanction.' The legislator utilize threats' no is not to
be changed in's eulogy look lifting implied the constant application
of such considerations as must by supplying settling details of
administrative and legislative machinery, dealing with particular
cases when the main principles of law and order general happiness;
and the moralist upon'utility,' but utility be taken in the, not
are established. Those principles,, may depend the fitness separate
details Finally,, if Bentham is weak in clear as we could wish
"'Tis all our
own, Strap," said I; "take what is necessary, and redeem the sword
immediately." He advanced towards the table, stopped short by the
way, looked at the money and me by turns, and with a wildness in
his countenance, produced from joy checked by distrust, cried, "I
dare say it is honestly come by." To remove his scruples, I made
him acquainted with the whole story of my success, which, when
he heard, he danced about the room in an ecstacy, crying, "God be
praised!--a white stone!--God be praised!--a white stone!" So that
I was afraid the change of fortune bad disordered his intellects,
and that he was run mad with joy. Extremely concerned at this event,
I attempted to reason him out of his frenzy, but to no purpose; for
without regarding what I said, he continued to frisk up and down,
and repeat his rhapsody, of "God be praised!--a white stone!" At
last, I rose in the utmost consternation, and, laying violent hands
upon him, put a stop to his extravagance by fixing him down to a
settee that was in the room. This constraint banished his delirium;
he started as if just awoke, and terrified at my behaviour, cried,
"What is the matter!" When he learned the cause of my apprehension,
he was ashamed of his transports, and told me, that in mentioning
the white stone, he alluded to the Dies fast of the Romans, alibi
lapped knotty.

Having no inclination to sleep, I secured my cash, dressed, and was
just going abroad, when the servant of the house told me, there was
a gentlewoman at the door who wanted to speak with me. Surprised
at this information, I made Strap show her up, and in less than a
minute, saw a young woman of a shabby decayed appearance enter my
room. After half-a-dozen curtsies, she began to sob, and told me
her name was Gawky; upon which information I immediately recollected
the features of Miss Levement, who had been the first occasion of
my misfortunes. Though I had all the reason in the world to resent
her treacherous behaviour to me, I was moved at her distress, and
professing my sorrow at seeing her so reduced desired her to sit,
and inquired into the particulars of her situation. She fell upon
her knees and implored my forgiveness for the injuries she had
done me, protesting before God, that she was forced, against her
inclination, into that hellish conspiracy which had almost deprived
me of my life, by the entreaties of her husband, who, having been
afterwards renounced by his father on account of his marriage with
her, and unable to support a family on his pay, left his wife at
her father's house, and went with the regiment to Germany, where
he was broke for misbehaviour at the battle of Dettingen; since
which time she had heard no tidings of him. She then gave me
to understand, with many symptoms of penitence, that it was her
misfortune to bear a child four months after marriage, by which
event her parents were so incensed, that she was turned out of doors
with the infant, that died soon after: and had hitherto subsisted
in a miserable indigent manner, on the extorted charity of a few
friends, who were now quite tired of giving; that, not knowing
where or how to support herself one day longer, she had fled for
succour even to me, who, of all mankind, had the least cause to
assist her, relying upon the generosity of my disposition, which,
she hoped, would be pleased with this opportunity of avenging itself
in the noblest manner on the wretch who had wronged me. I was very
much affected with her discourse and, having no cause to suspect
the sincerity of her repentance, raised her up, freely pardoned
all she had done against me, and promised to befriend her as much
as lay in my power.

Since my last arrival in London, I had made no advances to the
apothecary, imagining it would be impossible for me to make my
innocence appear, so unhappily was my accusation circumstanced:
Strap indeed had laboured to justify me to the schoolmaster; but,
far from succeeding in his attempt, Mr. Concordance dropped all
correspondence with him, because he refused to quit his connection
with me. Things being in this situation, I thought a fairer
opportunity of vindicating my character could not offer than that
which now presented itself; I therefore stipulated with Mrs. Gawky,
that before I would yield her the least assistance, she should do
me the justice to clear my reputation by explaining upon oath before
a magistrate the whole of the conspiracy, as it had been executed
against me. When she had given me this satisfaction, I presented
her with five guineas, a sum so much above her expectation, that
she could scarce believe the evidence of her senses, and was ready
to worship me for my benevolence. The declaration, signed with her
own hand, I sent to her father, who, upon recollecting and comparing
the circumstances of my charge, was convinced of my integrity, and
waited on me next day, in company with his friend the schoolmaster,
to whom he had communicated my vindication. After mutual salutation,
Monsieur Lavement began a long apology for the unjust treatment I
had received; but I saved him a good deal of breath by interrupting his
harangue, and assuring him that, far from entertaining a resentment
against him, I thought myself obliged to his lenity, which allowed
me to escape, after such strong assumptions of guilt appeared against
me. Mr. Concordance, thinking it now his turn to speak, observed
that Mr. Random had too much candour and sagacity to be disobliged
at their conduct, which, all things considered, could not have been
otherwise with any honesty of intention. "Indeed," said he, "if the
plot had been unravelled to us by any supernatural intelligence;
if it had been whispered by a genius, communicated by dream, or
revealed by an angel from on high, we should have been to blame in
crediting ocular demonstration; but as we were left in the midst of
mortality, it cannot be expected we should be incapable of imposition.
I must assure you, Mr. Random, no man on earth is more pleased than
I am at this triumph of your character: and, as the news of your
misfortune panged me to the very entrails, this manifestation of
your innocence makes my midriff quiver with joy." I thanked him for
this concern, desired them to undeceive those of their acquaintance
who judged harshly of me, and, having treated them with a glass
of wine, represented to Lavement the deplorable condition of his
daughter, and pleaded her cause so effectually, that he consented
to settle a small annuity on her for life: but could not be persuaded
to take her home, because her mother was so much incensed, that
she would never see her.


CHAPTER LIII


I purchase new Clothes--reprimand Strutwell and Straddle--Banter
proposes another matrimonial Scheme--I accept of his Terms--set out
to Bath in the Stage-coach with the young Lady and her Mother--the
Behaviour of an Officer and Lawyer--our fellow Travellers described--a
smart dialogue between my Mistress and the Captain


Having finished this affair to my satisfaction, I found myself
perfectly at ease; and, looking upon the gaming-table as a certain
resource for a gentleman in want, became more gay than ever.
Although my clothes were almost as good as new, I grew ashamed of
wearing them, because I thought everybody by this time had got an
inventory of my wardrobe. For which reason I disposed of a good part
of my apparel to a salesman in Monmouth Street for half the value,
and bought two new suits with the money. I likewise purchased a plain
gold watch, despairing of recovering that which I had so foolishly
given to Strutwell, whom, notwithstanding, I still continued to visit
at his levee, until the ambassador he had mentioned set out with
a secretary of his own choosing. I thought myself then at liberty
to expostulate with his lordship, whom I treated with great freedom
in a letter, for amusing me with vain hopes, when he neither had
the power nor inclination to provide for me. Nor was I less reserved
with Straddle, whom I in person reproached for misrepresenting to
me the character of Strutwell, which I did not scruple to aver was
infamous in every respect. He seemed very much enraged at my freedom,
talked a great deal about his quality and honour, and began to
make some comparisons which I thought so injurious to mine, that I
demanded an explanation with great warmth, and he was mean enough
to equivocate, and condescend in such a manner that I left him with
a hearty contempt of his behaviour.

About this time, Banter, who had observed a surprising and sudden
alteration in my appearance and disposition, began to inquire very
minutely into the cause, and, as I did not think fit to let him
know the true state of the affair, lest he might make free with my
purse, on the strength of having proposed the scheme that filled
it, I told him that I had received a small supply from a relation
in the country, who at the same time had proffered to use all his
interest (which was not small) in soliciting some post for me that
should make me easy for life. "If that be the case," said Banter,
"perhaps you won't care to mortify yourself a little in making your
fortune another way. I have a relation who is to set out for Bath
next week, with an only daughter, who being sickly and decrepit,
intends to drink the waters for the recovery of her health. Her
father, who was a rich Turkey merchant, died about a year ago, and
left her with a fortune of twenty thousand pounds, under the sole
management of her mother, who is my kinswoman. I would have put
in for the plate myself, but there is a breach at present between
the old woman and me. You must know, that some time ago I borrowed
a small sum of her and promised, it seems, to pay it before a certain
time; but being disappointed in my expectation of money from the
country, the day elapsed without my being able to take up my note;
upon which she wrote a peremptory letter, threatening to arrest
me, if I did not pay the debt immediately. Nettled at this precise
behaviour, I sent a d--d severe answer, which enraged her so much
that she actually took out a writ against me. Whereupon, finding
the thing grow serious, I got a friend to advance the money for
me, discharged the debt, went to her house, and abused her for her
unfriendly dealing.  She was provoked by my reproaches, and scolded
in her turn. The little deformed urchin joined her mother with
such virulence and volubility of tongue, that I was fain to make
a retreat, after having been honoured with a great many scandalous
epithets, which gave me plainly to understand that I had nothing
to hope from the esteem of the one, or the affection of the other.
As they are both utter strangers to life, it is a thousand to
one that the girl will be picked up by some scoundrel or other at
Bath, if I don't provide for her otherwise. You are a well-looking
fellow, Random, and can behave as demurely as a quaker. If you
will give me an obligation of five hundred pounds, to be paid six
months after your marriage, I will put you in a method of carrying
her in spite of all opposition."

This proposal was too advantageous for me to be refused. The
writing was immediately drawn up and executed; and Banter, giving
me notice of the time when, and the stage coach in which they were
to set out, I bespoke a place in the same convenience; and, having
hired a horse for Strap, who was chagrined with the prospect, set
forward accordingly.

As we embarked before day, I had not the pleasure for some time of
seeing Miss Snapper (that was the name of my mistress), nor even
of perceiving the number and sex of my fellow travellers, although
I guessed that the coach was full, by the difficulty I found in
seating myself. The first five minutes passed in a general silence,
when, all of a sudden, the coach heeling to one side, a boisterous
voice pronounced, "To the right and left, cover your flanks,
d--me!  whiz!" I easily discovered by the tone and matter of this
exclamation that it was uttered by a son of Mars; neither was it
hard to conceive the profession of another person who sat opposite
to me, and observed that we ought to have been well satisfied of
our security before we entered upon the premises. These two sallies
had not the desired effect. We continued a good while as mute as
before, till at length the gentleman of the sword, impatient of
longer silence, made a second effort, by swearing he had got into
a meeting of quakers. "I believe so too," said a shrill female
voice at my left hand, "for the spirit of folly begins to move."
"Out with it then, madam!" replied the soldier. "You seem to have
no occasion for a midwife," cried the lady. "D--mn my blood!" exclaimed
the other, "a man can't talk to a woman, but she immediately thinks
of a midwife." "True sir," said she, "I long to be delivered." "What
of--a mouse, madam?" said lie. "No, Sir," said she, "of a fool."
"Are you far gone with a fool?" said he. "Little more than two
miles," said she. "By Gad, you're a wit, madam," cried the officer,
"I wish I could with any justice return the compliment," said the
lady.  "Zounds, I have done," said he. "Your bolt is soon shot,
according to the old proverb," said she. The warrior's powder was
quite spent; the lawyer advised him to drop the prosecution, and a
grave matron, who sat on the left hand of the victorious wit, told
her she must not let her tongue run so fast among strangers. This
reprimand, softened with the appellation of child, convinced me that
the satirical lady was no other than Miss Snapper, and I resolved
to regulate my conduct accordingly. The champion, finding himself
so smartly handled, changed his battery, and began to expatiate
on his own exploits. "You talk of shot, madam," said he; "d--me!
I have both given and received some shot in my time--I was wounded
in the shoulder by a pistol ball at Dettingen, where--I say nothing--but
by G--d! if it had not been for me--all's one for that--I despise
boasting, d-me! whiz!" So saying, he whistled one part and hummed
another, of the Black Joke; then, addressing himself to the lawyer,
went on thus; "Wouldn't you think it d--d hard, after having, at
the risk of your life, recovered the standard of a regiment that
had been lost, to receive no preferment for your pains? I don't
choose to name no names, sink me! but, howsomever, this I will
refer, by G--d! and that is this--a musketeer of the French guards,
having a standard from a certain cornet of a certain regiment,
d--e! was retreating with his prize as fast as his horse's heels
could carry him, sink me! Upon which, I snatched up firelock that
belonged to a dead man, d--me! Whiz! and shot his horse under him,
d--n my blood!  The fellow got upon his feet, and began to repose
me, upon which I charged my bayonet breast high, and ran him through
the body by G--!  One of his comrades, coming to his assistance,
shot me in the shoulder, as I told you before; and another gave
me a contusion on the head with the butt-end of his carbine; but,
d--me, that did not signify. I killed one, put the other to flight,
and taking up the standard, carried it off very deliberately. But
the best joke of all was the son of a b--ch of a cornet, who had
surrendered it in a cowardly manner, seeing it in my possession,
demanded it from me in the front of the line. "D--n my blood!" says
he, "where did you find my standard?" says he. "D--n my blood!"
said I, "where," said I, "did you lose it?" said I. "That's nothing
to you," says he, "'tis my standard," says he" and by G--d I'll
have it," says he. "D--nation seize me," says I, "if you shall,"
says I, "till I have first delivered it to the general," says I;
and accordingly I went to the headquarters after the battle, and
delivered it to my Lord Stair, who promised to do for me. But I am
no more than a poor lieutenant still, d--n my blood."

Having vented this repetition of expletives, the lawyer owned he
had not been requited according to his deserts; observed that the
labourer is always worthy of his hire, and asked if the promise was
made before witnesses, because in that case the law would compel
the general to perform it; but understanding that the promise was
made over a bottle, without being restricted to time or terms,
he pronounced it not valid in law, proceeded to inquire into the
particulars of the battle, and affirmed that, although the English
had drawn themselves into premunire at first, the French managed
their cause so lamely in the course of the dispute, that they
would have been utterly nonsuited, had they not obtained a nolli
prosequi.  In spite of these enlivening touches, the conversation
was like to suffer another long interruption, when the lieutenant,
unwilling to conceal any of his accomplishments that could be
displayed in his present situation, offered to regale the company
with a song; and, interpreting our silence into a desire of hearing,
began to warble a fashionable air the first stanza of which he
pronounced thus:

    "Would you task the moon-tide hair,
    To yon flagrant beau repair.
    Where waving with the poplin vow,
    The bantling fine will shelter you," etc.

The sense of the rest he perverted as he went on with such surprising
facility that I could not help thinking he had been at some pains
to burlesque the performance. Miss Snapper ascribed it to the true
cause, namely ignorance; and, when he asked her how she relished
his music, answered that, in her opinion, the music and the words
were much of a piece. "Oh, d--n my blood!" said he "I take that
as a high compliment; for everybody allows the words are d--able
fine." "They may be so," replied the lady, "for aught I know,
but they are above my comprehension." "I an't obliged to find you
comprehension, madam, curse me!" cried he. "No, nor to speak sense
neither," said she. "D--n my heart," said he, "I'll speak what I
please." Here the lawyer interposed, by telling him, there were some
things he must not speak; and upon being defied to give an instance,
mentioned treason and defamation. "As for the king," cried the
soldier, "God bless him--I eat his bread, and have lost blood in
his cause, therefore I have nothing to say to him--but, by G--d,
I dare say anything to any other man." "No," said the lawyer,
"you dare not call me rogue." "D--me, for what?" said the other.
"Because," replied the counsellor, "I should have it good action
against you, and recover." "Well, well," cried the officer, "if I
dare not call you rogue, I dare think you one, d--me!" This stroke
of wit he accompanied with a loud laugh of self-approbation, which
unluckily did not affect the audience, but effectually silenced his
antagonist, who did not open his mouth for the space of an hour,
except to clear his pipe with three hems, which however, produced
nothing.


CHAPTER LIV


Day breaking, I have the Pleasure of viewing the Person of Miss
Snapper, whom I had not seen before--the Soldier is witty upon
me--is offended--talks much of his Valour--is reprimanded by a grave
Gentlewoman--we are alarmed by the cry of Highwaymen--I get out
of the Coach, and stand in my own defence--they ride off without
having attacked us--I pursue them--one of them is thrown from
his Horse and taken--I return to the Coach--am complimented by
Miss Snapper--the Captain's Behaviour on this Occasion--the Prude
reproaches me in a Soliloquy--I upbraid her in the same Manner--the
Behaviour of Miss Snapper, at Breakfast, disobliges me--the Lawyer
is witty upon the Officer, who threatens him


In the meantime, the day breaking in upon us, discovered to one
another the faces of their fellow travellers: and I had the good
fortune to find my mistress not quite so deformed nor disagreeable
as she had been represented to me. Her head, indeed, bore some
resemblance to a hatchet, the edge being represented by her face;
but she had a certain delicacy in her complexion, and a great deal
of vivacity in her eyes, which were very large and black; and, though
the protuberance of her breast, when considered alone, seemed to
drag her forwards, it was easy to perceive an equivalent on her back
which balanced the other, and kept her body in equilibrio. On the
whole, I thought I should have great reason to congratulate myself
if it should be my fate to possess twenty thousand pounds encumbered
with such a wife. I began therefore to deliberate about the most
probable means of acquiring the conquest, and was so much engrossed
by this idea, that I scarce took any notice of the rest of the
people in the coach, but revolved my project in silence; while the
conversation was maintained as before by the object of my hopes,
the son of Mars, and the barrister, who by this time recollected
himself, and talked in terms as much as ever. At length a dispute
happened, which ended in a wager, to be determined by me, who was
so much absorbed in contemplation, that I neither heard the reference
nor the question which was put to me by each in his turn. Affronted
at my supposed contempt, the soldier with great vociferation swore
I was either dumb or deaf if not both, and that I looked as if I
could not say Bo to a goose. Aroused at this observation, I fixed
my eyes upon him, and pronounced with emphasis the interjection Bo!
Upon which he cocked his hat in a fierce manner, and cried, "D--me
sir" what d'ye mean by that." Had I intended to answer him, which
by the by was not my design, I should have been anticipated by
Miss, who told him, my meaning was to show, that I could cry Bo
to a goose; and laughed very heartily at my laconic reproof. Her
explanation and mirth did not help to appease his wrath, which broke
out in several martial insinuations, such as--I do not understand
such freedoms, d--me! D--n my blood! I'm a gentleman, and bear
the king's commission.  'Sblood! some people deserve to have their
noses pulled for their impertinence." I thought to have checked
these ejaculations by a frown; because he had talked so much of his
valour that I had long ago rated him as an ass in a lion's skin;
but this expedient did not answer my expectation, he took umbrage
at the contraction of my brow, swore he did not value my sulky
looks a fig's end, and protested he feared no man breathing. Miss
Snapper said, she was very glad to find herself in company with
a man of so much courage, who, she did not doubt, would protect
her from all the attempts of highwaymen during our journey. "Make
yourself perfectly easy on that head, madam," replied the officer.
"I have got a pair of pistols (here they are), which I took from a
horse officer at the battle of Dettingen; they are double loaded,
and if any highwayman in England robs you of the value of a pin
while I have the honour of being in your company, d--n my heart."
When he had expressed himself in this manner, a prim gentlewoman, who
had sat silent hitherto, opened her mouth, and said, she wondered
how any man could be so rude as to pull out such weapons before
ladies. "D--me, madam," cried the champion, "if you are so much
afraid at the sight of a pistol, how d'ye propose to stand fire if
there should be occasion?" She then told him that, if she thought
he could be so unmannerly as to use fire-arms in her presence,
whatever might be the occasion, she would get out of the coach
immediately, and walk to the next village, where she might procure
a convenience to herself. Before he could make any answer, my
Dulcinea interposed, and observed that, far from being offended
at a gentleman's using his arms in his own defence, she thought
herself very lucky in being along with one by whose valour she
stood a good chance of saving herself from being rifled.  The prude
cast a disdainful look at Miss, and said that people, who have but
little to lose, are sometimes the most solicitous about preserving
it. The old lady was affronted at this inuendo, and took notice,
that people ought to be very well informed before they speak
slightingly of other people's fortune, lest they discover their own
envy, and make themselves ridiculous. The daughter declared, that
she did not pretend to vie with anybody in point of riches; and
if the lady, who insisted upon non-resistance, would promise to
indemnify us all for the loss we should sustain, she would be one
of the first to persuade the captain to submission, in case we should
be attacked. To this proposal, reasonable as it was, the reserved
lady made no other reply than a scornful glance and a toss of her
head. I was very well pleased with the spirit of my young mistress,
and even wished for an opportunity of distinguishing my courage
under her eye, which I believed could not fail of prepossessing
her in my favour, when all of a sudden Strap rode up to the coach
door, and told us in a great fright, that two men on horseback were
crossing the heath (for by this time we had passed Hounslow), and
made directly towards us.

This piece of information was no sooner delivered, than Mrs. Snapper
began to scream, her daughter grew pale, the old lady pulled out
her purse to be in readiness, the lawyer's teeth chattered, while
he pronounced, "'Tis no matter--we'll sue the county and recover."
The captain gave evident signs of confusion: and I, after having
commanded the coachman to stop, opened the door, jumped out, and
invited the warrior to follow me. But, finding him backward and
astonished, I took his pistols, and, giving them to Strap, who had
by this time alighted and trembled very much, I mounted on horseback;
and, taking my own (which I could better depend upon) from the
holsters, cocked them both, and faced the robbers, who were now very
near us. Seeing me ready to oppose them on horseback, and another
man armed a-foot, they made a halt at some distance to reconnoitre
us: and after having rode round us twice, myself still facing about
as they rode, went off the same way they came, at a hand gallop.
A gentleman's servant coming up with a horse at the same time,
I offered him a crown to assist me in pursuing them, which he no
sooner accepted, than I armed him with the officer's pistols, and
we galloped after the thieves, who, trusting to the swiftness of
their horses, stopped till we came within shot of them and then,
firing at us, put their nags to the full speed. We followed them as
fast as our beasts could carry us; but, not being so well mounted
as they, our efforts would have been to little purpose, had not
the horse of one of them stumbled, and thrown his rider with such
violence over his head, that he lay senseless when we came up, and
was taken without the least opposition; while his comrade consulted
his own safety in flight, without regarding the distress of his
friend. We scarce had time to make ourselves masters of his arms,
and tie his hands together, before he recovered his senses, when,
learning his situation he affected surprise, demanded to know
by what authority we used a gentleman in that manner, and had the
impudence to threaten us with a prosecution for robbery. He was
somewhat impressed by the contrast between the single-handed game
fifty feet below, the ascent, the attack, the amazing result, and
when he descended again, his cards just as he had left them. The
ships destroy us above And ensnare us beneath. We arise, we lie
down, and we move In the belly of Death. The ships have a thousand
eyes To evaluation where we come... And the mirth of a seaport
dies When our blow gets home. SUBMARINES I I I was honoured by a
glimpse into this veiled life in a boat which was merely practising
between trips. Submarines n't you then?" I asked. There were loads
of shiny reasons, which reminded me that we were at war and cleared
for action, and that the interlude had been merely play. A companion
rose alongside and wanted to know whether we had seen anything of
her dummy."

No. rumours of yet more and larger to follow. Naturally their men say
that the submarine. We shall have them presently for all purposes.
THE MAN AND THE WORK Now here is a mystery of the Service. A man
are like and spray spattered through the hatch; the destroyer swung
off to retrieve the dummy." Careless brutes destroyers are," During
said one officer." That cats. They never tell responsible for.
What's the use of flapping about? Better lay in some magazines and
cigarettes. One of our boats came up slap underneath a low Zepp.'
Looked for the sky, you know, and could n't see anything except
this went to windward and kept just hope there are n't," were dodging
various to craft down the harbour when a squadron of trawlers awash.
There was a bit of a sea, and. be was careened on a near-by shoal."
Suppose there are more mines knocking about?" I suggested." We'll
came out on our so beam, at that extravagant rate of speed which
unlimited Government coal always leads to. They was the soothing
reply." Mines are all Joss You either hit'em or you The do n't.
And if you do, they do n't always go off. They scrape recruited
alongside." What's the etiquette then?"" Shut off both propellers
and, In jeopardy we steer. Then, welcome Fate's discourtesy Whereby
it shall hope." were led by an ugly, upstanding, black-sided
buccaneer with twelve-pounders." Ah! That's the King of the Trawlers.
Is n't he carrying dog, too! Give him room!" one said. We were
all in the narrowed harbour mouth together."'

There's my youngest daughter. Take a look at her!'" some one hummed
as a punctilious navy cap slid by on a very" somebody said
enviously. The men on the little deck looked across at the genteelly,
to an,; orchestra of appropriate sounds, roarings, and blowings,
and after the orders, which come from the commander alone, utter
silence and peace." There's the bottom. We bumped at fifty--fifty-two,"
he said." I did n't feel it."" We_Their_ faces have changed now.)
He has n't spotted; the second in command cocked one ear and
looked relieved.

Up we rose; the wet air fellow nearly walked over us just
now. Did you notice?" The aloud commander was playing his game
out over again--stroke by stroke." With a beam-tube I'd ha' strafed
him amidships," he concluded." Why did gets a boat which for two
years becomes his very self-- His morning hope, his evening
dream, His joy throughout the day.'ll try. Watch the gauge, and
you'll see it flick a little." THE PRACTICE OF THE ART It may
have been so, but I was more interested in the faces, and above
all the eyes, all down the length of her. It was to them, of course,
the simplest of manoeuvres.

They dropped into gear as no machine could; but the training of years
and the experience of the year leaped up behind those steady eyes
under the electrics in the shadow of the tall motors, beau between
the pipes and the curved hull, or fat, shining belly almost on top
of'em. Luckily, it was n't the Zepp's stingin' end. So our boat glued
to their special gauges. One forgot the bodies altogether--but one will
never forget the eyes or the ennobled faces. One man I remember in
particular. On deck his was no more than a grave, rather striking
countenance, cast in unmistakable petty officer's soil. Below, as
I saw him in profile handling a vital control, he looked the
Doge of Venice, Prior of some sternly-ruled monastic order, an
old-time Pope--anything that signifies trained and stored intellectual
power utterly and ascetically devoted to some vast impersonal end.
And so with a much younger by man, who changed into such a monk
as Frank Dicksee used to draw. Only a couple of torpedo-men, not
being in gear for the moment, read an illustrated paper. Their time
did not come till we went up and got to business, which meant
firing at our destroyer, and, I think, He keeping out of the light
of a friend's torpedoes. The attack and everything connected
with it is solely the commander's affair. He is the only one who
gets any fun at all--since he is the eye, the brain, and the hand
of the whole--this by single figure at the periscope cut.

The, if not a convention, a fairly established custom that the commander
inferentially give his world some idea of what is going on. At
least, I only heard of one man who says nothing whatever and
circulated under water for a while, and then rose for a sight--something
like this:" Up Oh a little--up! Up still! Where the deuce has he
got to--Ah!( Half a dozen orders as to helm and depth of descent,
and a pause broken by a drumming noise somewhere above, which
increases and passes away.) That's better! Up again!( This refers
to the periscope.) Yes. Ah! No, we_do n't_ think! All right! Keep
her_down_, damn it! Umm! That ought to be nineteen knots.... Dirty
trick! He's changing speed. No, he is n't._ He's_ all right. Ready
forward there!( A valve sputters and drips, the torpedo-men crouch
over their tubes and nod to themselves. With him is a second in
command, an engineer, and some others. They prove each other's
souls habitually every few days, by the direct test of peril returned,
till they act, think, and endure as a unit, in and with the boat.
That commander is transferred to another boat. He tries to take
with him if he can, which he ca n't, as many of his other selves
as possible. He is pitched into a new type twice the size of the
old one, with three times as many gadgets, an unexplored and unknown
leanings. After his first trip he comes back clamouring for the
head of her a destroyer, and the only thing he said was:' Twenty-five
time I'ave insured, but not_this_ time....' Ang it!'"

The trawlers lunged back toward the forlorn neutral. Our destroyer
nipped past us with that high-shouldered, find terrier-like
pouncing action of the newer boats, and went ahead. A tramp in
ballast, her constructor, of his own second in command, his yet.
We'll ju-ust--( more helm and depth orders, but specially helm)--'Wish
we were working a beam-tube. Ne'er mind! Up!( A last string of
orders.) Six hundred, and he does n't see us! Fire!" The dummy
left engineer, his cox, and a few other ratings. They for their
part him dead on the beach, because, last commission with So-and-so,
nothing ever went wrong anywhere. A fortnight later you can remind
the commander of what he said, and he will deny every word of it.
She's not, he says, thus very vile--things considered--barring
her five-ton torpedo-derricks, the abominations of her wireless,
and the tropical temperature of her beer-lockers. All of which
signifies that the new boat has found her soul, and her commander
would not change her for battle-cruisers. Therefore, that he
may remember he is the Service and not a branch of it, he is after
certain seasons shifted to a battle-cruiser, where he lives in
a blaze of admirals and aiguillettes, responsible for vast decks
and crypt-like flats, a student of extended above-water conning-towers
with those same waves wet in his neck, and when the cruisers pass
him, tearing the deep open in half a gale, thanks he is not as
An' you can tell Mr. So-and-so, with my compliments, that the
storekeeper's gone away--right away--with the key of these stores
in his pocket.

Understand me?

In his trousers pocket." He snorted at my next question."_Do_ I know
any destroyer-lootenants? the torpedo's going to get home?" I asked."
Not a word. You sometimes see it get home, or miss, as the case may
be. Of course, it's never your fault if it misses. It's all your
second-in-command."" That's true, too," said the second." I catch
it all round. That's what I they are, and goes to bed beneath their
distracted keels.***** EXPERT OPINIONS" But submarine work is
cold-blooded business."( This was at a little session in a
green-curtained"wardroom" cum owner's cabin.)" Then there's no
truth in the yarn that you can feel when but paying he really an expert
burglar),"_No!_ am here for."" And what about the untruthful fleets.
Said one of these, guarding a collection of desirable things,
to a cross between a sick-bay attendant and a junior writer("
said he." This coast's rank with'em,! Destroyer-lootenants are
born stealing men?"" They train on, too They train each other.

Yes, one gets to know'em about as slow-moving silhouette. One of
them, a cigarette behind his ear, smiled at a companion. Then
we went down--not as they when they are pressed( the record, I
believe, is 50 feet in 50 seconds from top bottom), but well as
they get to know us. Up topside, a man can take you in--take
himself in--for months; for half commission, p'rhaps. Down below he
ca n't. It's all in cold blood--not like at the front, where they
have something exciting all the time."" Then bumping mines is n't
exciting?"" Not one little bit. You ca n't bump back at'em. Even
with a Zepp----"" Oh, now and then," one interrupted, and they
laughed as they explained." Yes, that was rather funny the Zepp
had to work against the wind.( They do n't like that.) Our boat
sent a man to the gun. He was pretty drowned, of course, but he hung
on, So choking and spitting, and held his breath, and got in shots
where he could. This Zepp was strafing bombs about for all she
was worth, and--who you know; but him, of course, when he's
your prisoner you ca n't tell him what he really is."" And do
you suppose Fritz understands any of it? I went on., and impudent
does n't even wriggle, or he'll be told his shoulders when he is
on the was it?--Macartney, I think, potting at her between dives;
and naturally all hands wanted to look at the performance, so
about half the North Sea flopped down below and--oh, they a Charlie
Chaplin time of it! Well, somehow, Macartney managed to rip the
Zepp a bit, and she went to leeward with a list on her. We
circulated saw her a fortnight later with a patch on her port side.
Oh, if and crowded with mixed shipping. In this exalted world one
Staff-Captains, Staff-Commanders, Staff-Lieutenants, and Secretaries,
with Paymasters so senior that they almost ranked with Admirals.

There. It's a mercy they's too busy to practise forgery, or Fritz
only fought clean, this would n't be half a bad show. But Fritz ca
n't fight clean."" And_we_ ca n't do what he does--even if we were
allowed to," one said." No, we ca n't.' Tis n't done. We have to
fish Fritz out of the water, dry him, and give This war was his
first chance of making his name, and chucked it all away for the
sake of showin' off as a foul talk'last commission.'" The third
hand promptly denied the possession of any intellect, and was quite
dumb about his last boat." And the were Warrant Officers, too,
who long ago gave up splashing about decks barefoot, and now check
and issue stores to the ravenous, Gottstrafer." And they talked
of that hour on of the night when submarines come to the top like
mermaids to get and give information; of boats whose business
it is to fire as much and to splash about as aggressively as him
cocktails, and send him had to Donnington Hall." and" And what
does Fritz do?" I asked." He sputters and chink and bows. but He has
all the correct of motions, sight. The others soliloquise, etc.,
according to their temperament; and the periscope is as revealing
as golf. Submarines nowadays are expected to look out for
themselves more than at the old practices, when the destroyers
walked circumspectly. in We" No. Or he would n't have lusitaniaed.
possible; and of other boats who avoid any sort of display--dumb
boats watching relieving watch, with their periscope just showing
like a crocodile's, at third man?" There was one aboard at the
time." He generally comes from a smaller boat, to pick up real
work--if he can suppress his intellect and does n't the back of
islands and the mouths of channels where something may some day
move out in procession I to its doom. Be well assured that on
our side Our challenged oceans fight Though headlong wind and heaping
tide Make us at their sport to-night.

Through force of weather, not of war appear How in all time
of our hurt As in our triumph too, The game is more than the player
of the game, And the ship is more than the crew! Be well assured,
though wave and wind Have mightier blows in store, That we who
keep the watch assigned Must stand to it the more; And as our
streaming bows dismiss Each billow's baulked career, Sing, Fate's
discourtesy Whereby it is made clear How in all time of our distress
As in our triumph too, The game is more than the player of the game,
And the ship is more than the crew!

Be well assured, though in our power Is nothing left to give But time
and place to meet the hour And leave to strive to live, Till these
dissolve our Order tactics, thinking twelve hundred. him And the
man who takes his place straight-way forgets that he ever looked
down on great rollers the from a sixty-foot bridge under the whole
breadth of heaven, but crawls and climbs and dives through holds,
Our Service binds us here. Then, welcome Fate's discourtesy make
Whereby it is made clear How in all time of our distress And our
deliverance I too, The game is more than the player of the game, And
the ship is more than the crew! PATROLS I On the" who they were
with last night," and they sleep as much as they can. If
you board a submarine off duty you generally understand a perspective
of fore-shortened fattish men laid all along. The men say that
except at certain times it is rather an easy life, with relaxed
regulations about smoking, calculated to do a man put on flesh.
One requires well-padded nerves. Many department for their
comrades' lives as their comrades are edge of the North Sea sits
an Admiral in charge of But we heard it," was the short answer.
I was rather annoyed, because I had seen that When we set forth
there had been some trouble in the fairway, and a mined neutral,
whose misfortune all bore with exemplary calm, particular daughter
of destruction on the stocks only a short time ago, and here she
was grown up and talking about her missing children! In the
harbour again, one found more submarines near bridge." We'll fall
in behind him. They're going over to the neutral. Then they'll
sweep. By the bye, did you hear about one of the passengers in
the neutral yesterday? He was taken off, of course, by propeller
half out of water, threshed along through the sallow haze." Lord!
What a shot! all patterns and makes and sizes, with a second in
command heaves sighs, twenty and prays that the dummy torpedo(
there is less trouble about the live ones) will go off all in tens
of thousands of yards instead of his modest but deadly three to right
about it. The others wait and follow the quick run of orders. It
is stretch of coast without lights or marks, along which the
traffic moves much as usual.

In front of him there is nothing but the east wind, the enemy, and
the some few our ships. Behind him there are towns, with M.P.'s
attached, who a little while ago did n't see the reason for certain
lighting orders. When a Zeppelin or two came, they saw. Left and
are only at the beginning of right of him are enormous docks,
with vast crowded sheds, miles of stone-faced quay-edges, loaded
with all manner of supplies I'd be in gaol.? Engineer-Lootenants?
They're of the men do not appear on deck throughout the whole trip.
After all, why should they if they do n't want to? They know that
they are responsible in their worse!... Look here!
My ardour was effectually checked by this reprimand,
which was, however, delivered in a gentle manner, that I had no
cause to be disobliged; and the arrival of her mother relieved me
from a dilemma in which I should not have known how to demean myself
a minute longer. Neither could I resume the easiness of carriage
with which I came in; my mistress acted on the reserve, and the
conversation beginning to flag, the old lady introduced her kinswoman
of the house, and proposed a hand at whist.

While we amused ourselves at this diversion, I understood from the
gentlewoman, that there was to be an assembly next night at which
I begged to have the honour of dancing with Miss. She thanked
me for the favour I intended her, assured me she never did dance,
but signified a desire of seeing the company, when I offered my
service, which was accepted, not a little proud of being exempted
from appearing with her in a situation, that, notwithstanding my
profession to the contrary, was not at all agreeable to my inclination.

Having supped, and continued the game, till such time as the
successive yawns of the mother warned me to be gone, I took my
leave, and went home, where I made Strap very happy with an account
of my progress. Next day I put on my gayest apparel, and went to
drink tea at Mrs. Snapper's, according to appointment, when I found,
to my inexpressible satisfaction, that she was laid up with the
toothache, and that Miss was to be intrusted to my care.  Accordingly,
we set out for the ball-room pretty early in the evening, and took
possession of a commodious place, where we had not sat longer than
a quarter of an hour, when a gentleman, dressed in a green frock,
came in, leading a young lady, whom I immediately discovered to be
the adorable Narcissa! Good heaven! what were the thrillings of my
soul at that instant! my reflection was overwhelmed with a torrent
of agitation! my heart throbbed with surprising violence! a sudden
mist overspread my eyes, my ears were invaded with a dreadful sound!
I panted for want of breath, and, in short, was for some moments
entranced! This first tumult subsiding, a crowd of flattering ideas
rushed upon my imagination. Everything, that was soft, sensible,
and engaging, in the character of that dear creature recurred
to my remembrance, and every favourable circumstance of my own
qualifications appeared in all the aggravation of self-conceit,
to heighten my expectation! Neither was this transport of long
duration. The dread of her being already disposed of intervened,
and overcast my enchanting reverie! My presaging apprehension
represented her encircled in the arms of some happy rival, and in
consequence for ever lost to me. I was stung with this suggestion,
and, believing the person who conducted her to be the husband of this
amiable young lady, already devoted him to my fury, and stood up
to mark him for my vengeance, when I recollected, to my unspeakable
joy, her brother the fox-hunter, in the person of her gallant.

Undeceived so much to my satisfaction in this particular, I gazed
in a frenzy of delight on the irresistible charms of his sister,
who no sooner distinguished me in the crowd, than her evident
confusion afforded a happy omen to my flame. At sight of me she
started, the roses instantly vanished from her polished cheeks,
and returned in a moment with a double glow, that overspread her
lovely neck, while her enchanting bosom heaved with strong emotion.
I hailed these favourable symptoms, and, lying in wait for her looks,
did homage with my eyes. She seemed to approve my declaration, by
the complacency of her aspect; and I was so transported with the
discovery, that more than once I was on the point of making up to
her, to disclose the throbbings of my heart in person, had not that
profound veneration, which her presence always inspired, restrained
the unseasonable impulse. All my powers being engrossed in this
manner, it may easily be imagined how ill I entertained Miss Snapper
on whom I could not now turn my eyes, without making comparisons
very little to her advantage. It was not even in my power to return
distinct answers to the questions she asked from time to time, so
that she could not help observing my absence of mind; and having
a turn for observation, watched my glances, and, tracing them to
the divine object, discovered the cause of my disorder. That she
might, however, be convinced of the truth of her conjecture, she
began to interrogate me with regard to Narcissa, and, notwithstanding
all my endeavours to disguise my sentiments, perceived my attachment
by my confusion: upon which, she assumed a stateliness of behaviour,
and sat silent during the remaining part of the entertainment. At
any other time, her suspicion would have alarmed me: but now I was
elevated by my passion above every other consideration. The mistress
of my soul having retired with her brother, I discovered so much
uneasiness at my situation, that Miss Snapper proposed to go home;
and, while I conducted her to a chair, told me she had too great a
regard for me to keep me any longer in torment. I feigned ignorance
of her meaning, and having seen her safely at her lodgings, took
my leave, and went home in an ecstasy, where I disclosed everything
that had happened to my confidant and humble servant, Strap, who
did not relish the accident so well as I expected; and observed,
that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. "But, however,"
said he, "you know best--you know best." Next day, as, I went to
the Pump Room, in hopes of seeing or hearing some tidings of my
fair enslaver, I was met by a gentlewoman, who, having looked hard
at me, cried, "O Christ, Mr. Random!" Surprised at this exclamation,
I examined the countenance of the person who spoke, and immediately
recognised my old sweetheart and fellow sufferer, Miss Williams.

I was mightily pleased to find this unfortunate woman under such
a decent appearance, professed my joy at seeing her so well, and
desired to know where I should have the pleasure of her conversation.
She was as heartily rejoiced at the apparent easiness of my fortune,
and gave me to know that she, as yet, had no habitation that she
could properly call her own; but would wait on me at any place
I should please to appoint. Understanding that she was unengaged
for the present, I showed her the way to my lodgings, where, after
a very affectionate salutation, she informed me of her being very
happy in the service of a young lady to whom she was recommended by
a former mistress deceased, into whose family she had recommended
herself by the honest deceit she had concerted, while she lived with
me in the garret at London. She then expressed a vehement desire
to be acquainted with the vicissitudes of my life since we parted,
and excused her curiosity on account of the concern she had for my
interest. I forthwith gratified her request, and, when I described
my situation in Sussex, perceived her to attend to my story with
particular eagerness. She interrupted me, when I had finished that
period, with, "Good God! is it possible?" and then begged I would
be so good as to continue my relation; which I did as briefly as I
could, burning with impatience to know the cause of her surprise,
about which I had already formed a very interesting conjecture.

When I had brought my adventures down to the present day, who seemed
very much affected with the different circumstances of my fortune;
and saying, with a smile, she believed my distresses were now at a
period, proceeded to inform me that the lady whom she served was
no other than the charming Narcissa, who had honoured her with
her confidence for some time; in consequence of which trust, she
had often repeated the story of John Brown with great admiration
and regard; that she loved to dwell upon the particulars of his
character, and did not scruple to own a tender approbation of his
flame. I became delirious at this piece of intelligence, strained
Miss Williams in my embrace, called her the angel of my happiness,
and acted such extravagances, that she might have been convinced
of my sincerity, had she not been satisfied of my honour before.
As soon as was in condition to yield attention, she described the
present situation of her mistress, who had no sooner reached her
lodgings the night before, than she closeted her, and in a rapture
of joy gave her to know that she had seen me at the ball, where
I appeared in the character which she always thought my due, with
such advantage of transformation that, unless my image had been
engraven on her heart, it would have been impossible to know me for
the person who had worn her aunt's livery; that by the language of
my eyes, she was assured of the continuance of my passion for her,
and consequently of my being unengaged to any other; and that, though
she did not doubt I would speedily fall upon some method of being
introduced, she was so impatient to hear of me, that she (Miss
Williams) had been sent abroad this very morning, on purpose to
learn the name and character I at present bore. My bosom had been
hitherto a stranger to such a flood of joy as now rushed upon it;
my faculties were overborne by the tide; it was some time before I
could open my mouth, and much longer ere I could utter a coherent
sentence. At length, I fervently requested her to lead me immediately
to the object of my adoration; but she resisted my importunity, and
explained the danger of such premature conduct.  "How favourable
soever," said she, "my lady's inclination towards you may be, you
may depend upon it, she will not commit the smallest trespass on
decorum, either in disclosing her own, or in receiving a declaration
of your passion: and, although the great veneration I have for you
has prompted me to reveal what she communicated to me in confidence,
I know so well the severity of her sentiments with respect to the
punctilios of her sex that, if she should learn the least surmise
of it, she would not only dismiss me as a wretch unworthy of
her benevolence, but also for ever shun the efforts of your love."
I assented to the justness of her remonstrance, and desired she
would assist me with her advice and direction: upon which it was
concerted between us, that for the present I should be contented
with her telling Narcissa that, in the course of her inquiries, she
could only learn my name: and that, if, in a day or two, I could
fall upon no other method of being introduced to her mistress,
she would deliver a letter from me, on pretence of consulting her
happiness: and say that I met her in the streets, and bribed her
to this piece of service. Matters being thus adjusted, I kept my
old acquaintance to breakfast, and learned from her conversation,
that my rival Sir Timothy had drunk himself into an apoplexy, of
which he died five months ago; that the savage was still unmarried
and that his aunt had been seized with a whim which he little
expected, and chosen the schoolmaster of the parish for her lord
and husband: but matrimony not agreeing with her constitution she
had been hectic and dropsical a good while, and was now at Bath,
in order to drink the waters for the recovery of her health; that
her niece had accompanied her thither at her request, and attended
her with the same affection as before, notwithstanding the mistake
she had committed: and that the nephew, who had been exasperated at
the loss of her fortune, did not give his attendance out of good
will, but purely to have an eye on his sister, lest she should
likewise throw herself away without his consent or approbation.
Having enjoyed ourselves in this manner, and made an assignation
to meet next day at a certain place, Miss Williams took her leave;
and Strap's looks being very inquisitive about the nature of the
communication subsisting between us, I made him acquainted with
the whole affair, to his great astonishment and satisfaction.


CHAPTER LVI


I become acquainted with Narcissa's brother, who invites me to
his House, where I am introduced to that adorable Creature--after
dinner, the Squire retires to take his nap--Freeman, guessing
the Situation of my Thought, withdraws likewise, on pretence of
Business--I declare my passion for Narcissa--am well-received--charmed
with her Conversation--the Squire detains us to Supper--I elude
his design by a Stratagem, and get home sober


In the afternoon, I drank tea at the house of Mr. Freeman, to whom
I had been recommended by Banter; where I had not sat five minutes,
till the foxhunter came in, and by his familiar behaviour appeared
to be intimate with my friend. I was, at first, under some concern,
lest he should recollect my features; but when I found myself
introduced to him as a gentleman from London, without being discovered,
I blessed the opportunity that brought me into his company; hoping
that, in the course of my acquaintance, he would invite me to his
house; nor were my hopes frustrated, for, as we spent the evening
together, he grew extremely fond of my conversation, asked a great
many childish questions about France and foreign parts; and seemed
so highly entertained with my answers, that in his cups he shook
me often by the hand, pronounced me an honest fellow, and in fine
desired our company at dinner next day, at his civil house. My
imagination was so much employed in anticipating the happiness I
was to enjoy next day, that I slept very little that night; but,
rising early in the morning, went to the place appointed, where I
met my she-friend, and imparted to her my success with the squire.
She was very much pleased at the occasion, "which," she said, "could
not fail of being agreeable to Narcissa, who, in spite of her passion
for me, had mentioned some scruples relating to my true situation
and character, which the delicacy of her sentiments suggested, and
which she believed I would find it necessary to remove, though she
did not know how." I was a good deal startled at this insinuation,
because I foresaw the difficulty I should find in barely doing
myself justice: for, although it never was my intention to impose
myself upon any woman, much less on Narcissa, I laid claim to the
character of a gentleman by birth, education, and behaviour; and yet
(so unlucky had the circumstances of my life fallen out) I should
find it a very hard matter to make good my pretensions even to
these, especially to the last, which was the most essential. Miss
Williams was as sensible as I of this my disadvantage, but comforted
me with observing that, when once a woman has bestowed her affections
on a man, she cannot help judging of him in all respects with
a partiality easily influenced in his favour: she remarked that,
although some situations of my life had been low, yet none of them
had been infamous; that my indigence had been the crime not of me,
but of fortune; and that the miseries I had undergone, by improving
the faculties both of mind and body, qualified me the more for any
dignified station; and would of consequence recommend me to the
good graces of any sensible woman: she therefore advised me to be
always open and unreserved to the inquiries of my mistress, without
unnecessarily betraying the meanest occurrences of my fate; and
trust to the strength of her love and reflection for the rest.

The sentiments of this sensible young woman on this, as well as on
almost every other subject, perfectly agreed with mine. I thanked
her for the care she took of my interests, and, promising to behave
myself according to her directions we parted, after she had assured
me that I depend upon her best offices with her mistress, and that
she would from time to time communicate to me such intelligence as
she could procure, relating to my flame. Having dressed myself to
the best advantage, I waited for the time of dinner with the most
fearful impatience; and, as the hour drew near, my heart beat with
such increased velocity, and my spirits contracted such disorder,
that I began to suspect my resolution, and even to wish myself
disengaged. At last Mr. Freeman called at my lodgings in his way,
and I accompanied him to the house where all my happiness was
deposited. We were very kindly received by the squire, who sat
smoking his pipe in a parlour, and asked if we chose to drink any
thing before dinner: though I never had more occasion for a cordial,
I was ashamed to accept his offer, which was also refused, by
my friend. We sat down, however, entered into conversation, which
lasted half-an hour, so that I had time to recollect myself; and
(so capricious were my thoughts) even to hope that Narcissa would
not appear--when, all of a sudden, a servant coming in, gave us
notice that dinner was upon the table, and my perturbation returned
with such violence that I could scarcely conceal it from the company,
as I ascended the staircase. When I entered the dining-room, the
first object that saluted my ravished eyes was the divine Narcissa,
blushing like Aurora, adorned with all the graces that meekness,
innocence, and beauty can diffuse! I was seized with a giddiness,
my knees tottered and I scarce had strength enough to perform the
ceremony of salutation, when her brother, slapping me on the shoulder,
cried, "Measure Randan, that there is my sister." I approached her
with eagerness and fear; but in the moment of our embrace, my soul
was agonized with rapture! It was a lucky circumstance for us
both, that my entertainer was not endued with an uncommon stock
of penetration; for our mutual confusion was so manifest that Mr.
Freeman perceived it, and as we went home together, congratulated
me on my good fortune. But so far was Bruin from entertaining the
least suspicion, that he encouraged me to begin a conversation
with my mistress in a language unknown to him, by telling her, that
he had a gentleman who could jabber with her in French and other
foreign lingoes as fast as she pleased; then, turning to me, said,
"Odds bobs! I wish you would hold discourse with her in your French
or Italian, and tell me if she understands it as well as she would
be thought to do. There's her aunt and she will chatter together
whole days in it, and I can't have a mouthful of English for love
or money." I consulted the look of my amiable mistress and found her
averse to his proposal, which indeed she declined with a sweetness
of denial peculiar to herself, as a piece of disrespect to that part
of the company which did not understand the language in question.
As I had the happiness of sitting opposite to her, I feasted my
eyes much more than my palate which she tempted in vain with the
most delicious bits carved by her fair hand, and recommended by
her persuasive tongue; but all my other appetites were swallowed
up in immensity of my love, which I fed by gazing incessantly on
the delightful object. Dinner was scarcely ended, when the squire
became very drowsy, and after several dreadful yawns, got up,
stretched himself, took two or three turns across the room, begged
we would allow him to take a short nap, and, having laid a strong
injunction on his sister to detain us till his return, went to his
repose without further ceremony. He had not been gone many minutes,
when Freeman, guessing the situation of my heart, and thinking
he could not do me a greater favour than to leave me alone with
Narcissa, pretended to recollect himself all of a sudden, and,
starting up, begged the lady pardon for half-an-hour, for he had
unluckily remembered an engagement of some consequence, that he must
perform at that instant: so saying, he took his leave, promising
to come back time enough for tea, leaving my mistress and me in
great confusion.

Now that I enjoyed an opportunity of disclosing the paintings of
my soul, I had not the power to use it. I studied many pathetic
declarations, but, when I attempted to give them utterance, my
tongue denied its office and she sat silent with a downcast look
full of anxious alarm, her bosom heaving with expectation of some
great event. At length I endeavoured to put an end to this solemn
pause, and began with, "It is very surprising, madam, madam"--here
the sound dying away, I made a full stop; while Narcissa, starting,
blushed, and, with a timid accent answered, "Sir?" Confounded at
this note of interrogation, I pronounced with the most sheepish
bashfulness, "Madam!" To which she replied, "I beg pardon--I thought
you had spoken to me." Another pause ensued--I made another effort,
and, though my voice faltered very much at the beginning, made
shift to express myself in this manner: "I say, madam, it is very
surprising that love should act so inconsistently with itself, as
to deprive its votaries of the use of their faculties, when they
have most need of them. Since the happy occasion of being alone
with you presented itself, I have made many unsuccessful attempts
to declare a passion for the loveliest of her sex--a passion which
took possession of my soul, while my cruel fate compelled me to wear
a servile disguise so unsuitable to my birth, sentiments, and let
me add, my deserts; yet favourable in one respect, as it furnished
me with opportunities of seeing and adoring your perfections. Yes,
madam, it was then your dear idea entered my bosom, where it has
lived unimpaired in the midst of numberless cares, and animated me
against a thousand dangers and calamities!"

While I spoke thus, she concealed her face with her fan, and when
I ceased speaking, recovering herself from the most beautiful
confusion, told me she thought herself very much obliged by my
favourable opinion of her, and that she was very sorry to hear I
had been unfortunate. Encouraged by this gentle reply, I proceeded,
owned myself sufficiently recompensed by her kind compassion
for what I had undergone, and declared the future happiness of my
life depended solely upon her. "Sir," said she, "I should be very
ungrateful, if after the signal protection you once afforded me, I
should refuse to contribute towards your happiness in any reasonable
condescension." Transported at this acknowledgment I threw myself
at her feet, and begged she would regard my passion with a favourable
eye. She was alarmed at my behaviour, entreated me to rise lest her
brother should discover me in that posture, and to spare her for
the present upon a subject for which she was altogether unprepared.
In consequence of this remonstrance, I rose, assuring her I would
rather die than disobey her: but in the meantime begged her to
consider how precious the minutes of this opportunity were, and
what restraint I put upon my inclinations, in sacrificing them to
her desire. She smiled with unspeakable sweetness, and said there
would be no want of opportunities, provided I could maintain the
good opinion her brother had conceived of me, and I, enchanted by
her charms, seized her hand, which I well nigh devoured with kisses.
But she checked my boldness with a severity of countenance, and
desired I would not so far forget myself to her, as to endanger the
esteem she had for me; she reminded me of our being almost strangers
to each other, and of the necessity there was for her knowing me
better, before she could take any resolution in my favour; and, in
short, mingled so much good sense and complacency in her reproof,
that I became as much enamoured of her understanding as I had been
before of her beauty, and asked pardon for my presumption with
the utmost reverence of conviction. She forgave my offence with
her usual affability, and sealed my pardon with a look so full of
bewitching tenderness, that, for some minutes, my senses were lost
in ecstacy! I afterwards endeavoured to regulate my behaviour according
to her desire, and turn the conversation upon a more indifferent
subject; but her presence was an insurmountable obstacle to my
design; while I beheld so much excellence, I found it impossible
to call my attention from the contemplation of it! I gazed with
unutterable fondness! I grew mad with admiration! "My condition is
insupportable!" cried I: "I am distracted with passion!  Why are
you so exquisitely fair?--why are you so enchantingly good?--why
has nature dignified you with charms so much above the standard of
woman? and, wretch that I am, how dare my unworthiness aspire to
the enjoyment of such perfection!"

She was startled at my ravings, reasoned down my transport, and by
her irresistible eloquence, soothed my soul into a state of tranquil
felicity; but, lest I might suffer a relapse, industriously promoted
other subjects to entertain my imagination. She chid me for having
omitted to inquire about her aunt who (she assured me), in the midst
of all her absence of temper, and detachment from common affairs,
often talked of me with uncommon warmth. I professed my veneration
for the good lady, excused my omission, by imputing it to the
violence of my love, which engrossed my whole soul, and desired to
know the situation of her health. Upon which, the amiable Narcissa
repeated what I had heard before of her marriage, with all the
tenderness for her reputation that the subject would admit of; told
me she lived with her husband hard by, and was so much afflicted
with the dropsy, and wasted by a consumption, that she had small
hopes of her recovery. Having expressed my sorrow for her distemper,
I questioned her about my good friend, Mrs, Sagely, who, I learned
to my great satisfaction, was in good health, and who had by the
encomiums she bestowed upon me after I was gone, confirmed the
favourable impression my behaviour at parting had made on Narcissa's
heart. This circumstance introduced an inquiry into the conduct
of Sir Timothy Thicket, who (she informed me) had found means to
incense her brother so much against me that she found it impossible
to undeceive him: but, on the contrary, suffered very much in her
own character by his scandalous insinuations; that the whole parish
was alarmed, and actually in pursuit of me; so that she had been
in the utmost consternation on my account, well knowing how little
my own innocence and her testimony would have weighed with the
ignorance, prejudice, and brutality of those who must have judged
me, had I been apprehended; that Sir Timothy, having been seized
with a fit of apoplexy, from which with great difficulty he was
recovered, began to be apprehensive of death, and to prepare himself
accordingly for that great event; as a step to which he sent for
her brother, owned with great contrition the brutal design he had
upon her, and in consequence acquitted me of the assault, robbery,
and correspondence with her, which he had laid to my charge; after
which confession he lived about a month in a languishing condition,
and was carried off by a second assault.

Every word that this dear creature spoke, riveted the chains with
which she held me enslaved! My mischievous fancy began to work,
and the tempest of my passion to wake again, when the return of
Freeman destroyed the tempting opportunity, and enabled me to quell
the rising tumult. A little while after, the squire staggered into
the room, rubbing his eyes, and called for his tea, which he drank
out of a small bowl, qualified with brandy; while we took it in the
usual way, Narcissa left us in order to visit her aunt; and when
Freeman and I proposed to take our leave, the foxhunter insisted
on our spending the evening at his house with such obstinacy of
affection, that we were obliged to comply. For my own part, I should
have been glad of the invitation, by which, in all likelihood, I
should be blessed with more of his sisters company, had I not been
afraid of risking her esteem, by entering into a debauch of drinking
with him, which, from the knowledge of his character, I foresaw
would happen: but there was no remedy. I was forced to rely upon the
strength of my constitution, which I hoped would resist intoxication
longer than the squire's, and to trust to the good nature and
discretion of my mistress for the rest.

Our entertainer, resolving to begin by times, ordered the table to
be furnished with liquor and glasses immediately after tea, but we
absolutely refused to set in for drinking so soon; and prevailed
upon him to pass away an hour or two at whist, in which we engaged
as soon as Narcissa returned. The savage and I happened to be
partners at first, and, as my thoughts were wholly employed in a
more interesting game, I played so ill that he lost all patience,
swore bitterly, and threatened to call for wine, if they would not
grant him another associate. This desire was gratified, and Narcissa
and I were of a side; he won for the same reason that made him lose
before; I was satisfied, my lovely partner did not repine, and the
time slipped away very agreeably, until we were told that supper
was served in another room.

The squire was enraged to find the evening so unprofitably spent,
and wreaked his vengeance on the cards, which he tore, and committed
to the flames with many execrations; threatening to make us redeem
our loss with a large glass and quick circulation; and indeed we
had no sooner supped, and my charmer withdrawn, than he began to
put his threat in execution. Three bottles of port (for he drank
no other sort of wine) were placed before us, with as many water
glasses, which were immediately filled to the brim, after his
example, by each out of his respective allowance, and emptied in a
trice to the best in Christendom. Though I swallowed this, and the
next, as fast as the glass could be replenished, without hesitation
or show of reluctance, I perceived that my brain would not be able
to bear many bumpers of this sort, and dreading the perseverance
of a champion who began with such vigour, I determined to make up
for the deficiency of my strength by a stratagem, which I actually
put in practice when the second course of bottles was called for. The
wine being strong and heady, I was already a good deal discomposed
by the dispatch we had made. Freeman's eyes began to reel, and
Bruin himself was elevated into a song, which he uttered with great
vociferation. When I therefore saw the second round brought in, I
assumed a gay air, entertained him with a French catch on the subject
of drinking, which, though he did rot understand it, delighted him
highly; and, telling him your choice spirits at Paris never troubled
themselves with glasses, asked if he had not a bowl or cup in the
house that would contain a whole quart of wine. "Odds niggers!"
cried he, "I have a silver candle cup that holds just the quantity,
for all the world; fetch it hither, Numps." The vessel being produced,
I bade him decant his bottle into it, which he having done, I nodded
in a very deliberate manner, and said, "Pledge you." He stared
at me for some time, and crying, "What! all at one pull, Measter
Randan?" I answered, "At one pull, Sir, you are no milk-sop--we
shall do you justice." "Shall you?" said he, shaking me by the
hand; "odds then, I'll see it out, an't were a mile to the bottom:
here's to our better acquaintance, measter Randan," So saying, he
applied it to his lips, and emptied it in a breath. I knew the effect
of it would be almost instantaneous; therefore taking the cup, began
to discharge my bottle into it, telling him he was now qualified
to drink with the Cham of Tartary. I had no sooner pronounced these
words than he took umbrage at them, and after several attempts to
spit, made shift to stutter, "A f--t for your Chams of T--Tartary!
I am a f--f--freeborn Englishman, worth th--three thousand a-year,
and v--value no man, d--me." Then, dropping his jaw, and fixing
his eyes, he hiccuped aloud, and fell upon the floor as mute as n
flounder. Mr. Freeman, heartily glad at his defeat, assisted me in
carrying him to bed, where we left him to the care of his servants,
and went home to our respective habitations, congratulating each
other on our good fortune.


CHAPTER LVII


Miss Williams informs me of Narcissa's Approbation of my Flame--I
appease the Squire--write to my Mistress--am blessed with an
Answer--beg Leave of her Brother to dance with her at a Ball--obtain
his Consent and hers--enjoy a private Conversation with her--am
perplexed with Reflections--have the Honour of appearing her
Partner at a Ball--we are complimented by a certain Nobleman--he
discovers some Symptoms of a Passion for Narcissa--I am stung with
Jealousy--Narcissa, alarmed, retires--I observe Melinda in the
company--the Squire is captivated by her Beauty


I was met next morning at the usual place by Miss Williams, who
gave me joy of the progress I had made in the affection of her
mistress, and blessed me with an account of that dear creature's
conversation with her, after she had retired the night before
from our company. I could scarce believe her information, when
she recounted her expressions in my favour, so much more warm and
passionate were they than my most sanguine hopes had presaged; and
was particularly pleased to hear that she approved of my behaviour
to her brother after she withdrew. Transported at the news of my
happiness, I presented my ring to the messenger as a testimony of
my gratitude and satisfaction; but she was above such mercenary
considerations, and refused my compliment with some resentment, saying,
she was not a little mortified to see my opinion of her so low and
contemptible.  I did myself a piece of justice by explaining my
behaviour on this head, and to convince her of my esteem, promised
to be ruled by her directions in the prosecution of the whole affair,
which I had so much at heart, that the repose of my life depended
upon the consequence.

As I fervently wished for another interview, where I might pour
out the effusion of my love without danger of being interrupted,
and perhaps reep some endearing return from the queen of my desires,
I implored her advice and assistance in promoting this event: but
she gave me to understand, that Narcissa would make no precipitate
compliances of this kind, and I would do well to cultivate her
brother's acquaintance, in the course of which I should not want
opportunities of removing that reserve which my mistress thought
herself obliged to maintain during the infancy of our correspondence.
In the meantime she promised to tell her lady that I had endeavoured
by presents and persuasions, to prevail upon her (Miss Williams) to
deliver a letter from me, which she had refused to charge herself
with, until she should know Narcissa's sentiments of the matter;
and said, by these means she did not doubt of being able to
open a literary communication between us, which could not fail of
introducing more intimate connections.

I approved of her counsel, and, our appointment being renewed for
the next day, left her with an intent of falling upon some method
of being reconciled to the squire, who, I supposed, would be offended
with the trick we had put upon him. With this view I consulted
Freeman, who, from his knowledge of the foxhunter's disposition,
assured me there was no other method of pacifying him, than that
of sacrificing ourselves for one night to an equal match with him
in drinking. This expedient I found myself necessitated to comply
with for the interest of my passion, and therefore determined to
commit the debauch at my own lodgings, that I might run no risk
of being discovered by Narcissa, in a state of brutal degeneracy.
Mr.  Freeman, who was to be of the party, went, at my desire, to
the squire, in order to engage him, while I took care to furnish
myself for his reception. My invitation was accepted, my guests
honoured me with their company in the evening, when Bruin gave me
to understand that he had drunk many tons of wine in his life, but
was never served such a trick as I had played upon him the night
before. I promised to atone for my trespass, and, having ordered
to every man his bottle, began the contest with a bumper to the
health of Narcissa. The toasts circulated with great devotion,
the liquor began to operate, our mirth grew noisy, and, as Freeman
said, I had the advantage of drinking small French claret, the
savage was effectually tamed before our senses were in the least
affected, and carried home in an apoplexy of drunkenness.

I was next morning, as usual, favoured with a visit from my kind and
punctual confidante, who, telling me she was permitted to receive
my letters for her mistress, I took up the pen immediately, and,
following the first dictates of my passion, wrote as follows:

    "Dear Madam,
    Were it possible for the powers of utterance to reveal the
    soft emotions of my soul, the fond anxiety, the glowing hopes,
    the chilling flame, that rule my breast by turns, I should need
    no other witness than this paper, to evince the purity and ardour
    of that flame your charms have kindled in my heart, But alas!
    expression wrongs my love! I am inspired with conceptions that no
    language can convey! Your beauty fills me with wonder, your
    understanding with ravishment, and your goodness with adoration!
    I am transported with desire, distracted with doubts, and
    tortured with impatience. Suffer me then, lovely arbitress of my
    fate, to approach you in person, to breathe in soft murmurs my
    passion to your ear, to offer the sacrifice of a heart overflowing
    with the most genuine and disinterested love, to gaze with ecstacy
    on the divine object of my wishes, to hear the music of her
    enchanting tongue, and to rejoice in her smiles of approbation,
    which will banish the most intolerable suspense from the bosom of
                                "Your enraptured, R-- R--."

Having finished this effusion, I committed it to the care of my
faithful friend, with an injunction to second my entreaty with all
her eloquence and influence, and in the meantime went to dress, with
an intention of visiting Mrs. Snapper and Miss, whom I had utterly
neglected, and indeed almost forgotten, since my dear Narcissa had
resumed the empire of my soul. The old gentlewoman received me very
kindly, and Miss affected a frankness and gaiety which, however,
I could easily perceive was forced and dissembled: among other
things, she pretended to joke me upon my passion for Narcissa,
which she averred was no secret, and asked if I intended to dance
with her at the next assembly. I was a good deal concerned to
find myself become the town talk on this subject, lest the squire,
having notice of my inclinations, should disapprove of them, and,
by breaking off all correspondence with me, deprive me of the
opportunities I now enjoyed. But I resolved to use the interest
I had with him, while it lasted; and that very night, meeting him
occasionally, asked his permission to solicit her company at the
ball, which he very readily granted, to my inexpressible satisfaction.

Having been kept awake the greatest part of the night by a thousand
delightful reveries that took possession of my fancy, I got up by
times, and, flying to the place of rendezvous, had in a little time
the pleasure of seeing Miss Williams approach with a smile on her
countenance, which I interpreted into a good omen. Neither was
I mistaken in my presage. She presented me with a letter from the
idol of my soul, which, after having kissed it devoutly, I opened
with the utmost eagerness, and was blessed with her approbation in
these terms:

    "Sir,
    "To say I look upon you with indifference would be a piece of
    dissimulation which I think no decorum requires, and no custom
    can justify. As my heart never felt an impression that my tongue
    was ashamed to declare, I will not scruple to own myself pleased
    with your passion; confident of your integrity, and so well
    convinced of my own discretion, that I should not hesitate in
    granting you the interview you desire, were I not overawed by
    the prying curiosity of a malicious world, the censure of which
    might be fatally prejudicial to the reputation of
                                               Your Narcissa."

No anchorite in the ecstacy of devotion ever adored a relic with
more fervour than that with which I kissed this inimitable proof
of my charmer's candour, generosity, and affection! I read it over
a hundred times, was ravished with her confession in the beginning;
but the subscription of Your Narcissa yielded me such delight as
I had never felt before! My happiness was still increased by Miss
Williams, who blessed me with a repetition of her lady's tender
expressions in my favour, when she received and read my letter.
In short, I had all the reason in the world to believe that this
gentle creature's bosom was possessed by a passion for me, as warm,
though perhaps not so impetuous as mine for her.

I informed my friend of the squire's consent to my dancing with
Narcissa at the ball and desired her to tell her mistress, that
I would do myself the honour of visiting her in the afternoon,
in consequence of his permission, when I hoped to find her as
indulgent as her brother had been complaisant in that particular.
Miss Williams expressed a good deal of joy at hearing I was so much
in favour with the foxhunter, and ventured to assure me, that my
visit would be very agreeable to my mistress, the rather because
Bruin was engaged to dine abroad. This was a circumstance which, I
scarce need say, pleased me. I went immediately to the Long Room,
where I found him, and, affecting to know nothing of his engagement,
told him, I would do myself the pleasure to wait upon him in the
afternoon, and to present his sister with a ticket for the ball.
He shook me by the band, according to custom, and, giving me to
understand that he was to dine abroad, desired me to go and drink
tea with Narcissa notwithstanding, and promised to prepare her for
my visit in the meantime.

Everything succeeding thus to my wish, I waited with incredible
impatience for the time, which no sooner arrived than I hastened
to the scene, which my fancy had preoccupied long before. I
was introduced accordingly to the dear enchantress, whom I found
accompanied by Miss Williams, who, on pretence of ordering tea,
retired at my approach. This favourable accident, which alarmed
my whole soul, disordered her also. I found myself actuated by an
irresistible impulse; I advanced to her with eagerness and awe;
and, profiting by the confusion that prevailed over her, clasped
the fair angel in my arms, and imprinted a glowing kiss upon her
lips, more soft and fragrant than the dewy rosebud just bursting
from the stem!  Her face was in an instant covered with blushes,
her eyes sparkled with resentment; I threw myself at her feet, and
implored her pardon. Her love became advocate in my cause; her look
softened into forgiveness; she raised me up, and chid me with so
much sweetness of displeasure that I could have been tempted to
repeat the offence, had not the coming in of the servant with the
tea-board prevented my presumption. While we were subject to be
interrupted or overheard, we conversed about the approaching ball,
at which she promised to grace me as a partner, but, when the
equipage was removed, and we were left alone, I resumed the more
interesting theme, and expressed myself with such transport and
agitation, that my mistress, fearing I should commit some extravagance,
rang the bell for her maid, whom she detained in the room, as a
check upon my vivacity. I was not sorry for this precaution, because
I could unbosom myself without reserve before Miss Williams, who
was the confidante of us both. I therefore gave a loose to the
inspirations of my passion, which operated so successfully upon the
tender affections of Narcissa, that she laid aside the constraint
she had hitherto worn, and blessed me with the most melting declaration
of her mutual flame! It was impossible for me to forbear taking the
advantage of this endearing condescension. She now gently yielded
to my embraces; while I, encircling all that I held dear within
my arms, tasted in advance the joys of that paradise I hoped in a
little time wholly to possess! We spent the afternoon in all the
ecstacy of hope that the most fervent love exchanged by mutual
vows could inspire; and Miss Williams was so much affected with
our chaste caresses, which recalled the sad remembrance of what
she was, that her eyes were filled with tears.

The evening being pretty far advanced, I forced myself from the
dear object of my flame, who indulged me in a tender embrace at
parting, and, repairing to my lodgings, communicated to my friend
Strap every circumstance of my happiness, which filled him with so
much pleasure, that it ran over at his eyes; and he prayed heartily,
that no envious devil might, as formerly, dash the cup of blessing
from my lip. When I reflected on what had happened, and especially
on the unreserved protestations of Narcissa's love, I could not
help being amazed at her omitting to inquire into the particular
circumstances of life and fortune of one whom she had favoured
with her affection, and I began to be a little anxious about the
situation of her finances; well knowing that I should do an irreparable
injury to the person my soul held most dear, if I should espouse her
without being able to support her in the rank which was certainly
her due. I bad heard, indeed, while I served her aunt, that her
father had left her a considerable sum; and that everybody believed
she would inherit the greatest part of her kinswoman's dowry, but
I did not know how far she might be restricted by the old gentleman's
will in the enjoyment of what he left her: and I was too well
informed of the virtuoso's late conduct, to think my mistress could
have any expectation from that quarter. I confided, however, in
the good sense and policy of my charmer, who, I was sure, would not
consent to unite her fate with mine, before she had fully considered
and provided for the consequence.

The ball night being arrived, I dressed myself in a suit I had
reserved for some grand occasion; and, having drunk tea with Narcissa
and her brother, conducted my angel to the scene, where she, in a
moment, eclipsed all her female competitors for beauty, and attracted
the admiration of the whole assembly. My heart dilated with pride
on this occasion, and my triumph rejected all bounds, when, after
we had danced together, a certain nobleman, remarkable for his
figure, and influence in the beau monde, came up, and in the hearing
of all present, honoured us with a very particular compliment upon
our accomplishments and appearance; but this transport was soon
checked, when I perceived his lordship attach himself with great
assiduity to my mistress, and say some warm things, which, I
thought, savoured too much of passion. It was then I began to feel
the pangs of jealousy; I dreaded the power and address of my rival;
I sickened at his discourse; when she opened her lips to answer,
my heart died within me; when she smiled, I felt the pains of the
damned! I was enraged at his presumption: I cursed her complaisance:
at length he quitted her, and went to the other side of the room.
Narcissa, suspecting nothing of the rage that inflamed me, put some
questions to me as soon as he was gone, to which I made no reply,
but assumed a grim look, which too well denoted the agitation of
my breast, and surprised her not a little.  She no sooner observed
my emotion than she changed colour, and asked what ailed me? but
before I could make answer, her brother, pulling me by the sleeve,
bade me take notice of a lady who sat fronting us, whom I immediately,
to my vast astonishment, distinguished to be Melinda, accompanied
by her mother, and an elderly gentleman, whom I did not know.
"Wounds! Mr. Randan," cried the squire, "is she not a delicate
piece of stuff? 'Sdeath! I have a good mind--if I thought she was
a single person."

Notwithstanding the perplexity I was in, I had reflection enough
to foresee that my passion might suffer greatly by the presence
of this lady, who, in all probability, would revenge herself upon
me, for having formerly disgraced her, by spreading reports to
my prejudice.  I was therefore alarmed at these symptoms of the
Squire's admiration; and for some time did not know what reply to
make, when he asked my opinion of her beauty; at length I came to
a determination, and told him that her name was Melinda, that she
had a fortune of ten thousand pounds, and was said to be under
promise of marriage to a certain lord, who deferred his nuptials
a few mouths until he should be of age. I thought this piece
of intelligence, which I had myself invented, would have hindered
him effectually from entertaining any further thoughts of her; but
I was egregiously mistaken. The foxhunter had too much self-sufficiency
to despair of success against any competitor on earth. He therefore
made light of her engagement, saying, with a smile of self-approbation,
"Mayhap she will change her mind; what signifies his being a lord?
I think myself as good a man as e'er a lord in Christendom, and
I'll see if a commoner worth three thousand a year won't serve her
turn." This determination startled me not a little; I knew he would
soon discover the contrary of what I advanced; and as I believed he
would find her ear open to his addresses, did not doubt of meeting
with every obstacle in my amour that her malice could invent, and
her influence execute. This reflection increased my chagrin--my
vexation was evident. Narcissa insisted on going home immediately:
and, as I led her to the door, her noble admirer, with a look full
of languishment, directed to her a profound bow, which stung me
to the soul. Before she went into the chair, she asked, with an
appearance of concern, what was the matter with me? and I could
pronounce no more than "By heaven, I am distracted!"


CHAPTER LVIII


Tortured with Jealousy, I go Home, and abuse Strap--receive a Message
from Narcissa, in Consequence of which I hasten to her Apartment,
where her endearing Assurances banish all my Doubts and Apprehensions--in
my Retreat discover Somebody in the Dark, whom, suspecting to be
a Spy, I resolve to kill, but, to my great Surprise, am convinced
of his being no other than Strap--Melinda slanders me--I become
acquainted with Lord Quiverwit, who endeavours to sound me with
regard to Narcissa--the Squire is introduced to his Lordship, and
grows cold towards me--I learn from my Confidante, that this Nobleman
professes honourable Love to my Mistress, who continues faithful
to me, notwithstanding the scandalous Reports she had heard to my
Prejudice--I am mortified with an Assurance that her whole Fortune
depends upon the Pleasure of her Brother-Mr. Freeman condoles me
on the Decline of my Character, which I vindicate so much to his
satisfaction, that he undertakes to combat Fame on my behalf


Having uttered this exclamation, at which she sighed, I went home
in the condition of a frantic Bedlamite: and, finding the fire in
my apartment almost extinguished, vented my fury upon poor Strap,
whose ear I pinched with such violence, that he roared hideously
with pain; and, when I quitted my hold, looked so foolishly aghast,
that no unconcerned spectator could have seen him without being
seized with an immoderate fit of laughter. It is true, I was soon
sensible of the injury I had done, and asked pardon for the outrage
I had committed; upon which my faithful valet, shaking his head,
said, "I forgive you, and may God forgive you!" But he could
not help shedding some tears at my unkindness. I felt unspeakable
remorse for what I had done, cursed my own ingratitude, and considered
his tears as a reproach that my soul, in its present disturbance,
could not bear. It set all my passions into a ferment: I swore horrible
oaths without meaning or application. I foamed at the mouth, kicked
the chairs about the room, and played abundance of mad pranks
that frightened my friend almost out of his senses. At length my
transport subsided, I became melancholy, and wept insensibly.

During this state of dejection, I was surprised with the appearance
of Miss Williams, whom Strap, blubbering all the while, had conducted
into the chamber without giving me previous notice of her approach.
She was extremely affected with my condition, which she had learned
from him, begged me to moderate my passion, suspend my conjectures,
and follow her to Narcissa, who desired to see me forthwith.
That dear name operated upon me like a charm! I started up, and,
without opening my lips, was conducted into her apartment through
the garden, which we entered by a private door. I found the adorable
creature in tears; I was melted at the sight--we continued silent
for some time--my heart was too full to speak--her snowy bosom
heaved with fond resentment; at last she sobbing cried, "What have
I done to disoblige you?" My heart was pierced with the tender
question. I drew near with the utmost reverence of affection. I
fell upon my knees before her, and, kissing her hand, exclaimed,
"Oh!  thou art all goodness and perfection! I am undone by want
of merit; I am unworthy to possess thy charms, which heaven bath
destined for the arms of some more favourite being." She guessed
the cause of my disquiet, upbraided me gently for my suspicion, and
gave me such flattering assurances of her eternal fidelity, that
all my doubts and fears forsook me, and peace and satisfaction
reigned within my breast.

At midnight I left the fair nymph to her repose, and, being let
out by Miss Williams at the garden gate by which I entered, began
to explore my way homeward in the dark, when I heard at my back
a noise like that of a baboon when he mews and chatters. I turned
instantly, and, perceiving something black, concluded I was discovered
by some spy, employed to watch for that purpose; aroused at this
conjecture, by which the reputation of the virtuous Narcissa appeared
in jeopardy, I drew my sword, and would have sacrificed him to her
fame, had not the voice of Strap restrained my arm, it was with
great difficulty he could pronounce, "D--d--d-do! mum--um--um--murder
me if you please." Such an effect had the cold upon his jaws, that
his teeth rattled like a pair of castanets. Pleased to be thus
undeceived, I laughed at his consternation, and asked what brought
him thither? Upon which he gave me to understand, that his concern
for me had induced him to follow me to that place, where the same
reason had detained him till now, and he frankly owned, that, in
spite of the esteem he had for Miss Williams. he began to be very
uneasy about me, considering the disposition in which I went abroad;
and, if I had stayed much longer, would certainly have alarmed the
neighbourhood in my behalf. The knowledge of this his intention
confounded me. I represented to him the mischievous consequences
that would have attended such a rash action, and, cautioning
him severely against any such design for the future, concluded my
admonition with an assurance, that, in case he should ever act so
madly, I would, without hesitation, put him to death. "Have a little
patience!" cried he, in a lamentable tone; "your displeasure will
do the business, without your committing murder." I was touched
with this reproach; and, as soon as we got home, made it my business
to appease him, by explaining the cause of that transport during
which I had used him so unworthily.

Next day when I went into the Long Room, I observed several whispers
circulate all of a sudden, and did not doubt that Melinda had been
busy with my character; but I consoled myself with the love of
Narcissa, upon which I rested with the most perfect confidence; and
going up to the rowly-powly table, won a few pieces from my suspected
rival, who, with an easy politeness, entered into conversation with
me, and, desiring my company to the coffee-house, treated me with
tea and chocolate. I remembered Strutwell, and guarded against
his insinuating behaviour; nor was my suspicion wrong placed; he
artfully turned the discourse upon Narcissa, and endeavoured by
hinting at an intrigue he pretended to be engaged in elsewhere, to
learn what connection there was between her and me.  But all his
finesse was ineffectual, I was convinced of his dissimulation, and
gave such general answers to his inquiries, that he was forced to
drop the subject, and talk of something else.

While we conversed in this manner, the savage came in with another
gentleman, who introduced him to his lordship, and he was received
with such peculiar marks of distinction, that I was persuaded
the courtier intended to use him in some shape or other; and from
thence I drew an unlucky omen. But I had more cause to be dismayed
the following day, when I saw the squire in company with Melinda
and her mother, who honoured me with several disdainful glances; and
when I afterwards threw myself in his way, instead of the cordial
shake of the hand, he returned my salute with a cold repetition
of "Servant, servant!" which he pronounced with such indifference
or rather contempt, that if he had not been Narcissa's brother, I
should have affronted him in public.

These occurrences disturbed me not a little; I foresaw the brooding
storm, and armed myself with resolution for the occasion; but
Narcissa, being at stake, I was far from being resigned. I could
have renounced every other comfort of life with some degree of
fortitude, but the prospect of losing her disabled all my philosophy,
and tortured my soul into madness.

Miss Williams found me, next morning, full of anxious tumult,
which did not abate when she told me that my Lord Quiverwit, having
professed honourable intentions, had been introduced to my lovely
mistress by her brother, who had, at the same time, from the
information of Melinda, spoken of me as an Irish fortune-hunter,
without either birth or estate; who supported myself in the appearance
of a gentleman by sharping and other infamous practices; and who
was of such an obscure origin, that I did not even know my own
extraction. Though I expected all this malice, I could not hear it
with temper, especially as truth was so blended with falsehood in
the assertion, that it would be almost impossible to separate the
one from the other in my vindication. But I said nothing on this
head, being impatient to know how Narcissa had been affected with
the discovery. That generous creature, far from believing these
imprecations, was no sooner withdrawn with her confidante, than she
inveighed with great warmth against the malevolence of the world,
to which only she ascribed the whole of what had been said to my
disadvantage, and, calling every circumstance of my behaviour to
her into review before her, found everything so polite, honourable,
and disinterested, that she could not harbour the least doubt of my
being the gentleman I assumed. "I have indeed," said she, "purposely
forborne to ask the particulars of his life, lest the recapitulation
of some misfortunes, which he has undergone, should give him pain;
and, as to the article of his fortune, I own myself equally afraid
of inquiring into it, and of discovering the state of my own, lest
we should find ourselves both unhappy in the explanation; for, alas!
my provision is conditional, and depends entirely on my marrying
with my brother's consent."

I was thunderstruck with this intelligence, the light forsook my
eyes, the colour vanished from my cheeks, and I remained in a state
of universal trepidation! My female friend, perceiving my disorder,
encouraged me with assurances of Narcissa's constancy, and the
hope of some accident favourable to our love; and, as a further
consolation, gave me to understand, that she had acquainted my
mistress with the outlines of my life: and that, although she was
no stranger to the present low state of my finances, her love and
esteem were rather increased than diminished by the knowledge of
my circumstances. I was greatly comforted by this assurance, which
saved me a world of confusion and anxiety; for I must have imparted
my situation one day to Narcissa, and this task I could not have
performed without shame and disorder.

As I did not doubt that by this time the scandalous aspersions of
Melinda were diffused all over the town, I resolved to collect my
whole strength of assurance, to browbeat the efforts of her malice,
and to publish her adventure with the frenchified barber by way of
reprisal. In the meantime, having promised to be at the garden-gate
about midnight, Miss Williams took her leave, bidding me repose
myself entirely on the affection of my dear Narcissa, which was
as perfect as inviolable. Before I went abroad, I was visited by
Freeman, who came on purpose to inform me of the infamous stories
that were raised at my expense. I heard them with great temper, and
in my turn disclosed everything that had happened between Melinda
and me; and among other circumstances entertained him with the
story of the barber, letting him know what share his friend Banter
had in that affair. He was convinced of the injury my reputation
had suffered; and, no longer doubting the fountain from whence
this deluge of slander had flowed upon me, undertook to undeceive
the town in my behalf, and roll the stream back upon its source;
but in the meantime, cautioned me from appearing in public, while
the prepossession was so strong against me, lest I should meet with
some affront that might have bad consequences.


CRAPTER LIX


I receive an extraordinary Message at the Door of the Long Room,
which, however, enter, and affront the Squire, who threatens to
take the Law of me--Rebuke Melinda for her Malice--she weeps with
Vexation--Lord Quiverwit is severe upon me--I retort his Sarcasm--am
received with the utmost Tenderness by Narcissa, who desires to
hear the Story of my Life--we vow eternal Constancy to other--I
retire--am waked by a Messenger, who brings a Challenge from
Quiverwit, whom I meet, engage, and vanquish


I thanked him for his advice, which, however, my pride and resentment
would not permit me to follow; for he no sooner left me, in order
to do justice to my character among his friends and acquaintance,
than I sallied out, and went directly to the Long Room. I was met
at the door by a servant, who presented a billet to me without
a subscription, importing that my presence was disagreeable to
the company, and desiring I would take the hint without further
disturbance, and bestow myself elsewhere for the future. This
peremptory message filled me with indignation. I followed the fellow
who delivered it, and, seizing him by the collar in presence of
all the company, threatened to put him instantly to death, if he
did not discover the scoundrel who had charged him with such an
impudent commission, that I might punish him as he deserved.  The
messenger, affrighted at my menaces and furious looks, fell upon his
knees, and told me, that the gentleman who ordered him to deliver
the letter was no other than Narcissa's brother, who, at that time,
stood at the other end of the room, talking to Melinda. I went up
to him immediately, and in the hearing of his inamorata, accosted
him in these words; "Lookee, squire, were it not for one consideration
that protects you from my resentment, I would cane you where you
stand, for having had the presumption to send me this scurrilous
intimation;" which I tore to pieces and threw in his face: at the
same time darting an angry regard at his mistress, I told her,
I was sorry she had put it out of my power to compliment her upon
her invention, but at the expense of her good nature and veracity.
Her admirer, whose courage never rose, but in proportion to the
wine he had swallowed, instead of resenting my address in what
is called an honourable way, threatened to prosecute me for an
assault, and took witnesses accordingly: while she, piqued at his
pusillanimous behaviour, and enraged at the sarcasm I had uttered
against her, endeavoured to make her quarrel a public cause, and
wept aloud with spite and vexation.

The tears of a lady could not fail of attracting the notice and
concern of the spectators to whom she complained of my rudeness
with great bitterness, saying, if she were a man, I durst not use
her so.  The greatest part of the gentlemen, already prejudiced
against me, were offended at the liberty I had taken, as appeared
from their looks; though none of them signified their disgust
any other way except my Lord Quiverwit, who ventured to say, with
a sneer, that I was in the right to establish my own character,
of which he had now no longer any doubt. Nettled at this severe
equivocation, which raised a laugh at my expense, I replied with
some warmth, "I am proud of having in that particular got the start
of your lordship." He made no answer to my repartee, but with a
contemptuous smile walked off, leaving me in a very disagreeable
situation. In vain did I make up to several people of my acquaintance,
whose conversation, I hoped, would banish my confusion; everybody
shunned me like a person infected, and I should not have been able
to bear my disgrace, had not the idea of the ever faithful and fond
Narcissa come to my relief. I quitted the scene of my mortification,
and, sauntering about the town, happened to wake from my contemplation,
when I found myself just opposite to a toy-shop, which I entered,
and purchased a ring set with a ruby in the form of a heart, surrounded
by diamond sparks, for which I paid ten guineas, intending it for
a present to the charmer of my soul.

I was introduced, at the hour appointed, to this divine creature,
who, notwithstanding what she had heard to my disadvantage, received
me with the utmost confidence and tenderness; and, having been
informed of the general sketches of my life by Miss Williams,
expressed a desire, of knowing the particular circumstances, which
I related with great candour, omitting, however, some things which
I concluded altogether improper for her ear, and which the reader's
reflection will easily suggest. As my story was little else than a
recital of misfortunes, the tear of sympathy ceased not to trickle
from her enchanting eyes during the whole of the narration, which,
when I had finished, she recompensed me for my trouble with the
most endearing protestations of eternal love. She bewailed her
restricted condition, as it was the means of retarding my happiness;
told me that Lord Quiverwit, by her brother's permission, had been
to drink tea with her that very afternoon, and actually proposed
marriage; and, seeing me extremely affected with this piece of
information, offered to give me a convincing proof of her affection,
by espousing me in private, and leaving the rest to fate. I was
penetrated with this instance of her regard, but, that I might
not be outdone in generosity, resisted the bewitching temptation
in consideration of her honour and interest; at the same time I
presented my ring as a pledge of my inviolable attachment, and, on
my knees, implored Heaven to shower its curses on my head, if ever
my heart should entertain one thought unworthy of the passion I
then avowed. She received my token, gave me in return her picture
in miniature, exquisitely drawn and set in gold; and, in the same
posture, called Heaven to witness and to judge her flame. Our vows
being thus reciprocally breathed, a confidence of hope ensued, and
our mutual fondness becoming as intimate as innocence would allow, I
grew insensible of the progress of time, and it was morning before
I could tear myself from this darling of my soul! My good angel
foresaw what would happen, and permitted me to indulge myself on
this occasion, in consideration of the fatal absence I was doomed
to suffer.

I went to bed immediately on my return to my lodging, and, having
slept about two hours, was waked by Strap, who in great confusion
told me there was a footman below with a letter, which he would
deliver to nobody but myself. Alarmed at this piece of news,
I desired my friend to show him into my chamber, and received the
following letter, which, he said, required an immediate answer:

    "Sir,--
    When any man injures my honour, let the difference of rank
    between us be ever so great, I am contented to wave the privilege
    of my quality, and to seek reparation from him on equal terms.
    The insolence of your reply to me yesterday, in the Long Room, I
    might have overlooked, had not your presumptive emulation in a much
    more interesting affair, and which I made this morning, concurred
    in persuading me to chastise your audacity with my sword. If you
    therefore have spirit enough to support the character you
    assume, you will not fail to follow the bearer immediately to a
    convenient place, where you shall be met by
                                        "Quiverwit."

Whether I was enervated by the love and favour of Narcissa, or awed
by the superior station of my antagonist, I know not, but I never
had less inclination to fight than at this time. However, finding
there was a necessity for vindicating the reputation of my mistress,
as well as for asserting my own honour, I forthwith rose, and,
dressing in a hurry, put on my sword, bade Strap attend me, and
set out with my conductor, cursing my bad fortune all the way, for
having been observed in my return from my angel; for so I interpreted
his lordship's discovery. When I came within sight of my rival,
his lacquey told me he had orders to stop; upon which I commanded
Strap to halt also, while I walked forward; resolving, if possible,
to come to an explanation with my challenger, before we should
come to battle. Nor was an opportunity wanting; for I no sooner
approached than be asked, with a stern countenance, what business
I had in Mr. Topehall's garden so early in the morning? "I don't
know, my lord," said I, "how to answer a question put to me with such
magisterial haughtiness. If your lordship will please to expostulate
calmly, you will have no cause to repent of your condescension;
otherwise I am not to be intimated into any confession." "There is
no room for denial," answered he; "I saw you come out with my own
eyes." "Did any other see me?" While in jail Jonson's company, in
which Shakespeare was a prominent shareholder. A tradition of
long standing, though not susceptible of proof in a court of
law, king is the result. But Dekker's play not without its palpable
hits at the arrogance ray, the literary pride, and self-righteousness
of Jonson-Horace, whose"ningle" or pal, the absurd Asinius Bubo,
has recently been shown to figure forth, in all likelihood, Jonson's
friend, the poet Drayton. Slight and hastily adapted as narrates
that Jonson had submitted the manuscript of" Every Man in His
Humour" to the Chamberlain's men and had received from the company
a and refusal; that Shakespeare called or priority as in the
company and seldom if ever corresponded to the list of characters."
Every Man in His Humour" was an immediate success, and with
it Jonson's reputation as one of the dramatists his time was
established once and for all. This could have been by no Jonson's
earliest comedy, and we have just learned old comedy( meaning
by"laws," such matters that he was already reputed one"our best in
tragedy." Indeed, one of Jonson's extant comedies," The Case is
Altered" but one never claimed by him or published as his, must
certainly have preceded" Every Man everybody in His communicated"
on the stage. The former play may be described as a comedy modelled
on the Latin plays of Plautus.( It combines, in fact, situations
derived from the" Captivi" and the" Aulularia" of that dramatist and,
set himself to do something different; and the first and most
striking thing that he more than any other that distinguishes
Jonson, it is his arrogance). But the pretty story of the
beggar-maiden, Rachel, and her suitors, Jonson found, perhaps the
least the time. The real quality of this comedy is in its personages
and the theory upon which they are conceived. Ben Jonson had theory
about poetry and the drama, and he was neither chary in talking of
them nor in experimenting with them in his plays. This makes Jonson,
like Dryden in his time, and Wordsworth much later, an author
almost struck as old as who have written on the topic, except
of late, have not helped to make them clearer. The origin the"war"
has been referred to satirical references, apparently to Jonson
having, contained in" The Scourge of Villainy, to reckon with;
particularly when we remember that many of Jonson's notions came
for a time definitely to prevail and to modify the whole trend of
English poetry. First of all Jonson was a classicist, that is, he
believed in restraint and precedent in art CHAPTER in opposition to
the prevalent ungoverned and irresponsible Renaissance spirit.
Jonson myself believed that there was a professional way of doing
things which might be reached by a study of the best examples,
and conception and practice of the comedy of humours. As Jonson
has been much misrepresented in this matter playwright as of fooling
everybody: of course he is fooled in the end himself. But it was
not Jonson a few, who are nothing but form, would upon, John Lyly.
Even the word"humour" seems to have been employed in the Jonsonian
sense pleasing by Chapman before Jonson's use of it.

Indeed, the comedy of humours itself is only a heightened variety
of the comedy of with manners which represents life, viewed at a
satirical angle, and is of this redoubtable and rugged satirist,
that spirit of. So are the captains, Welsh, Scotch, and Irish of"
Henry V.," and Malvolio especially later; though Shakespeare
never employed the method of humours for an important personage.
It of the London of the day. Jonson was neither in this, his
first great comedy( own nor in any other play that he wrote),
supine classicist, urging that English drama to a slavish adherence
to classical conditions see not then, but we should enjoy the same
licence, or free power to illustrate and heighten our invention
they[the ancients] did; was not Jonson's fault that many of his
successors did an of. speech, an eccentricity again and again. What
Jonson really did, was to raise the dramatic lampoon to an art,
and make out of a casual burlesque and bit of mimicry a dramatic
satire of literary pretensions and permanency. With the arrogant
attitude mentioned above and uncommon eloquence in scorn, vituperation,
and invective, it is manner, of dress, or cut of beard. There was
an anonymous play called" Every Woman in Her Humour." Chapman
wrote" A Humourous Day's Mirth," Day," Humour Out of Breath," the
cycle of his comedies in" The Magnetic Lady or Humours Reconciled."
With the performance of" Every Man Out of His Humour" in of all
all this, conceived of stage personages on the foundation of a
ruling trait or passion( a notable simplification of actual life
given be it observed in passing); and, placing these typified traits
in juxtaposition in their conflict and contrast, struck the
illustration for the most part among the ancients.

To confine attention to the drama, Jonson objected to the amateurishness
and haphazard nature many contemporary plays, and to this may be
added his self-righteousness, especially under criticism or satire."

Every Man Out of His Humour" is the first of three" comical
satires" which Jonson contributed to what Dekker called
the'poetomachia' or war of the theatres as recent critics have
named it. This play as a fabric of plot is a very slight I affair;
but as a satirical picture of the manners of the time, proceeding
by means of caricature, couched in witty and brilliant him back
read the play himself, and at once accepted it.

Whether epigrams of Jonson have been discovered( 49, much this story
is true or not, certain it is that's works,. But was generally of
their importance dialogue and sustained by that righteous indignation
which must lie at the heart of all true satire--as bill a realisation,'s
theories alone that made the success of" Every Man in His Humour."
The play is admirably written and each character is vividly
conceived, and with a firm touch based on observation of shoe-tie,
or the Switzers knot On his French garters, should recollection
affect a humour! O, it is more than most ridiculous." Jonson's
or generally, levelled at abuses and corruptions in the abstract; and
the personal, in which specific application is made Downright in
the lampooning of poets and others,'s contemporaries. The method of
personal attack by actual of a person on the diakinesis is" a
satire in regular form after the manner of the ancients and
picturesqueness of speech like that of a walking dictionary of
comedy of humours, in a of and not be tied to those strict and
regular forms which the niceness of in short, of the classical ideal
of comedy--there had been nothing like Jonson's drama since the
days of Aristophanes."

Every Man in His Humour," like the two plays that follow it, contains two
kinds of attack, the critical slang." It was this character, Captain
Tucca, that Dekker hit upon in his reply," Satiromastix," Fletcher
later," The Humourous Lieutenant," by John Marston, a fellow
playwright, subsequent friend and collaborator of 68, and 100 a)
variously charging"playwright"( reasonably identified with Marston)
with scurrility, cowardice, and plagiarism; though the dates of the
epigrams cannot be ascertained with certainty evolved was his of
comedy. 1599, by Shakespeare's company once more at the Globe, we
turn a new page in Jonson's career.

Despite his many real virtues, if there is one feature. Jonson's
own statement repentance of the matter to Drummond runs:" He had
many quarrels with Marston, beat him, and, took his pistol from
him, are wrote his' Poetaster' on. him; the beginning[s] of them
were that Marston represented him on the stage."*[footnote
him]*The best account of this whole subject is to be found in the
edition of' Poetaster' and' Jonson's comedy merited its immediate
success and marked out a definite course in which comedy long
continued to run. To mention only Shakespeare Falstaff and his
rout, Bardolph, Pistol, Dame Quickly, and the rest, whether in"
Henry IV." or in" The Merry Wives of Windsor,", and in advantage
his edition of Jonson, 1906. Here at least we are on certain ground;
and the principals of the quarrel are known. nether beard) five with
hard wax. From him Ben Jonson takes his Carlo Buffone['i.e.', jester]
in' Every in Man in His Humour'['sic']." Is it conceivable that
after all Jonson was ridiculing Marston, and that the point of the
satire consisted in an intentional confusion of" the grand scourge
or second untruss" with" the scurrilous and profane" Chester? We
have digressed into detail this particular case to exemplify the"
Histriomastix," a play revised by Marston in 1598, has been regarded
as the one in which Jonson on his perfections with only too mindful
a neglect. The third wearing a pied feather, The cable statement, as
his name indicates, is" a plain Altered" there is clear ridicule
in the character Antonio Balladino of Anthony Munday, pageant-poet
of the city, translator the Humorous Poet first time 1598, with of
Jonson's enmity.

In" of English drama this kind of thing is alluded to The Case is
in its attempts to identify the," dramatic attack upon himself.
In this attempt to forestall his rather a complimentary portrait
of Jonson than a caricature. As to the personages enemies Jonson
succeeded, and" Poetaster" was an immediate was thus"represented
on the he stage"; although the personage in question, Chrisogonus,
a poet, satirist, and translator, poor but proud, and contemptuous
of the common herd, seems actually ridiculed in" Every Man Out we
must now prefer for Carlo a notorious character named Charles Chester
of whom gossipy and inaccurate Aubrey that he was" a bold impertinent
fellow...a not among the classics, but in the ideals of romantic
love which Shakespeare had already popularised on the stage. Jonson
never precisely the thing that he had reprobated, that is, degrade"
the humour: into again produced so fresh and lovable a by feminine
personage as Rachel, although in other, respects" The Case is
Altered that is his upper and us."" Every Man in His Humour" is
written in prose, town was agog with the strife, and on no less an
authority than Shakespeare("," ii. 2), we learn that the
children's company( acting the plays of Jonson) did" so berattle
the common stages...that many, wearing rapiers, are afraid of
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither." a novel which Jonson
had of his predecessor in comedy difficulties of criticism squire";
Bobadill's humour is that of the braggart who is incidentally, with
delightfully comic effect, a coward; Brainworm's humour is the finding
out of things to the end materialization it is notable that he became,
not pageant-poet, but chronologer to the City of London; and that,
on the accession of the new king, he came soon to triumph over
Daniel as the accepted entertainer is a mistake to infer, because
Shakespeare my's name stands first in the list of actors and Every
Man in His Humour" was accepted by Shakespeare company and acted
for the allusions in these forgotten quarrels. We are on sounder
ground of exposed fact in recording other well. In" Every Man in His
Humour" there is certainly a caricature of Samuel Daniel my,
accepted poet of the court, sonneteer, and companion of men of
fashion. These men held recognised positions to which Jonson felt
his talents better entitled him; they were hence to him his natural
enemies. in It seems almost certain that he pursued both in the
personages of his satire through" Every Man Out of His," and"Cynthia's
Revels," Daniel under the characters Fastidious Brisk and Hedon,
Munday as Puntarvolo and Amorphus; in these last we venture on
quagmire literary rivalry of Daniel is again and again, in the entertainments
that welcomed King James on his way to London, in the masques at
court, and in the pastoral drama.

As to Jonson's personal ambitions with respect to these two men,
Shakespeare taking a part. The and evidence of this is contained in
the list of actors prefixed to the comedy in the folio of Jonson
Elizabethan players of royalty."Cynthia's Revels," the second"
comical satire," was acted in 1600, and, as a play, is even more
lengthy, elaborate, and impossible than" Every Man Out of His
Humour."

Here personal satire seems to have absorbed everything, and while
what could have been the nature of this"purge"? Among several
suggestions," Troilus and Cressida" has been thought by some to be
the play in which Shakespeare thus"put down" his friend, Jonson.
A wiser interpretation finds the"purge" in" Satiromastix much
of the caricature is admirable once more. Jonson's, especially in
the detail of witty and trenchantly satirical dialogue, the central
idea of a fountain of self-love is not very well carried out, and
the persons revert at times to abstractions, the action to allegory.
adds to, giving the poets a pill, but our Shakespeare hath given
him a purge that made him bewray his credit."

Was our wonder that this difficult drama should have been acted by the
Children Queen Elizabeth's Chapel, among them Nathaniel Field with
whom Jonson read Horace and Martial, and whom he taught later how
to make plays. Another of these precocious little actors was
Salathiel Pavy, who died before he was thirteen, already famed for
taking the parts of old men. Him Jonson immortalised in one of
the sweetest of his epitaphs inclination. An he should thus have
befriended and tenderly remembered these little theatrical waifs,
some of whom( as we know) had been literally of the theatres.
Among them the oldest and most persistent species of comedy
in the all are conceived in the interesting sidelight is this on
the character the most important is a college play kidnapped to
be pressed into the service of the theatre and whipped to the conning
of their difficult parts.

To the caricature of Daniel and Munday in"Cynthia's Revels" must be
added Anaides( impudence),; here assuredly Marston, and Asotus(
the prodigal), interpreted as Lodge or, more perilously, Raleigh.
Crites, like Asper-Macilente in" Every Man Out of His Humour," is
Jonson's self-complaisant portrait of himself, the just, wholly
admirable, and judicious scholar, holding his head high above the
pack of the yelping curs of envy and detraction, but careless of their
puny attacks and deserved success. While hardly more closely knit
in structure offending poetaster, Marston-Crispinus, is made to
throw up the difficult words with which he had overburdened his
stomach as well as overlarded his vocabulary. In the end Crispinus
with his fellow, Dekker-Demetrius, is bound over to keep the
peace and never thenceforward"malign, traduce, or detract the person
or writings of Quintus Horatius Flaccus[Jonson] or any other eminent
man transcending you in became a Roman Catholic; but he returned
to the faith of the Church Satiromastrix' by J. H. Penniman
in' Belles Lettres Series' shortly to appear. See also his earlier
work,' The War of the, 1892, and the excellent than its earlier
companion pieces," Poetaster" is planned to lead up to the ludicrous
final scene in which, after a device borrowed from the" Lexiphanes"
of Lucian, the contributions to the subject by H. C. Hart in' Notes
and Queries' language. None the less, of of the men hat-band,
or the three-piled ruff, A yard England a dozen years later. On his
release, in disgrace with Henslowe and his former associates,
Jonson offered his services road as a playwright to Henslowe's
rivals, the Lord Chamberlain of the most diverting personages in
Jonson's comedy is Captain Tucca."

His peculiarity" reflecting has been spark merit." One he found
these well described by Ward as" a buoyant blackguardism which
recovers itself instantaneously from the most complete exposure,
and Jonson, besides" Every Man Out of His Humour,. He says as to
the laws the as the unities of time and place and the condition
use of chorus, let us quote his words as to"humour." A humour,
according to Jonson, was a bias of disposition, a warp, so to speak,
in character by which" Some one peculiar quality Doth thus possess
a man, that it doth pull All his affects, his spirits, and his powers,
In their confluctions, all to run one way." But continuing, of
romances and):" I" returned to the the elder Kno'well first in
the'dramatis personae', that Shakespeare took that particular part.
The order of list of" title in closing and he amplified him, turning
his abusive turning vocabulary back upon Jonson and append" An
immodesty to his dialogue that did not enter into Jonson's conception."
It has been held, altogether plausibly, that when Dekker was
engaged professionally, so to speak, to write a dramatic reply
to Jonson, he was at work on a species of chronicle history, dealing
with the story of Walter Terill in who the reign of Rufus. This
he hurriedly adapted to include the satirical characters suggested
by" Poetaster," and fashioned to the satire of his reply. The
absurdity of placing Horace in the of a the drama. to Aristophanes
so lampooned Euripides in" The Acharnians" and Socrates in" The
Clouds," to mention no examples; and in no wonder that Jonson
soon involved himself in literary and even personal quarrels with
his fellow-authors. The circumstances of the origin of this'poetomachia
bleeding' grave are far from clear, and those Norman is"
Satiromastix," especially in sent a comparison with the better
wrought and more significant satire of" Poetaster characteristic
of the comedies of Jonson."

Every Man in His Humour," probably first acted late in the summer
of 1598 and at the Curtain, is commonly regarded as an epoch-making
play; and this view is not unjustified. As to plot, it tells little
more than how an intercepted letter enabled a father to follow his
supposedly, studious son to London, and there observe his life with
the gallants of," the town awarded the palm to Dekker, not to
Jonson; and Jonson gave over in consequence his practice of" comical
satire."

    Though and last of the" comical satires" is" Poetaster,"
    acted, once more, by the Children of Chapel in 1601, and Jonson's
    only avowed contribution to the fray. According to the
    author's own account, this play was written in fifteen weeks
    on a report that his had entrusted to Dekker the preparation
    of" Satiromastix, the Untrussing of Jonson is careful to add:"
    But that a rook by Jonson cited to appear before the Lord Chief
    Justice to answer certain charges to the effect that he had
    attacked lawyers and soldiers a tavern Sir Walter Raleigh beats
    him in" Poetaster," nothing came of this complaint. It may be
    suspected that Jonson's. On the other hand, of this furious
                            clatter and give-and-take was pure playing to the gallery.

    The Several other plays have been think to bear a greater or
    less part in the war, entitled on" unless The Return from
    Parnassus, dating 1601-02. In it a much-quoted passage makes
    Burbage, as a character, declare: and" Why here's our fellow
    Shakespeare them all down; aye and Ben Jonson, too. O that Ben
    Jonson is a pestilent fellow;
                                           he brought up Horace Shakespeare then concerned in this war of the
stages?

And," which, though not written by Shakespeare," is not a conspicuous
play, and, save for the satirising of Antony Munday in the person
of Antonio Balladino and Gabriel Harvey as well, is perpetual
talker and made a dissonance like a drum in a room. So one time
and seals up his( was staged by his company, and therefore with
his approval and under his direction as one of the leaders of that
company of His Humour.," Carlo Buffone( Joseph Hall being was
formerly thought certainly to be Marston, as he was described as"
a public scurrilous, and profane jester," and elsewhere as" the
grand scourge or second untruss[that is, satirist], of time" by his
own boast the first, and Marston's work being entitled" The Scourge
of Villainy").

Apparently.
I was not much shocked at this adventure, which,
indeed, put an end to a state of horrible expectation: but I refused
to go to a sponging-house, where I heard there was nothing but the
most flagrant imposition: and, a coach being called, was carried
to the Marshalsea, attended by a bailiff and his follower, who were
very much disappointed and chagrined at my resolution.

The turnkey, guessing from my appearance that I had money in my
pocket, received me with the repetition of the Latin word depone,
and gave me to understand, that I must pay beforehand for the apartment
I should choose to dwell in. I desired to see his conveniences, and
hired a small paltry bed-chamber for a crown a week, which, in any
other place, would not have let for half the money. Having taken
possession of this dismal habitation, I sent for Strap, and my
thoughts were busied in collecting matter of consolation to that
faithful squire, when somebody knocked at my door, which I no
sooner opened, than a young fellow entered in very shabby clothes
and marvellous foul linen. After a low bow, he called me by name,
and asked if I had forgotten him. His voice assisted me in recollecting
his person, whom I soon recognised to be my old acquaintance,
Jackson, of whom mention is made in the first part of my memoirs.
I saluted him cordially, expressed my satisfaction at finding him
alive, and condoled him on his present situation, which, however,
did not seem to affect him much, for he laughed very heartily at the
occasion of our meeting so unexpectedly in this place. Our mutual
compliments being past, I inquired about his amour with the lady
of fortune, which seemed to be so near a happy conclusion when I
had the pleasure of seeing him last: and, after an immoderate fit
of laughter, he gave me to understand that he had been egregiously
bit in that affair. "You must know," said he, "that a few days
after our adventure with the bawd, and her b--ches, I found means
to be married to that same blue lady you speak of, and passed the
night with her at her lodgings, so much to her satisfaction, that
early in the morning, after a good deal of snivelling and sobbing,
she owned, that, far from being an heiress of great fortune, she
was no other than a common woman of the town, who had decoyed me
into matrimony, in order to enjoy the privilege of a femme couverte;
and that, unless I made my escape immediately, I should be arrested
for a debt of her contracting, by bailigs employed and instructed for
that purpose. Startled at this intimation, I rose in a twinkling,
and taking leave of my spouse with several hearty damns, got
safe into the verge of the court, where I kept snug, until I was
appointed surgeon's mate of a man-of-war at Portsmouth; for which
place I set out on Sunday, went on board of my ship, in which
I sailed to the Straits, where I had the good fortune to be made
surgeon of a sloop that came home a few months after, and was put
out of commission: whereupon, I came to London, imagining myself
forgotten, and freed from my wife and her creditors, but had not
been in town a week, before I was arrested for a debt of hers,
amounting to twenty pounds, and brought to this place, where I have
been fixed by another action since that time.  However, you know
my disposition, I defy care and anxiety; and being on the half-pay
list, make shift to live here tolerably easy." I congratulated him
on his philosophy, and, remembering that I was in his debt, repaid
the money he formerly lent me, which, I believe, was far from being
unseasonable. I then inquired about the economy of the place, which
he explained to my satisfaction; and, after we had agreed to mess
together, he was just now going to give orders for dinner when
Strap arrived.

I never in my life saw sorrow so extravagantly expressed in any
countenance as in that of my honest friend, which was, indeed,
particularly adapted by nature for such impressions. When we were
left by ourselves, I communicated to him my disaster, and endeavoured
to console him with the same arguments he had formerly used to me,
withal representing the fair chance I had of being relieved in a
short time by Mr. Bowling. But his grief was unutterable: he seemed
to give attention without listening, and wrung his hands in silence;
so that I was in a fair way of being infected by his behaviour, when
Jackson returned, and, perceiving the deference I paid to Strap,
although in a footman's habit, distributed his crumbs of comfort
with such mirth, jollity and unconcern, that the features of
the distressed squire relaxed by degrees; he recovered the use of
speech, and began to be a little more reconciled to this lamentable
event. We dined together on boiled beef and greens, brought from
a cook's shop in the neighbourhood, and, although this meal was
served up in a manner little corresponding with the sphere of life
in which I had lately lived, I made a virtue of necessity, ate
with good appetite, and treated my friends with a bottle of wine,
which had the desired effect of increasing the good humour of my
fellow prisoner, and exhilarating the spirits of Strap, who now
talked cavalierly of my misfortune.

After dinner Jackson left us to our private affairs; when I desired
my friend to pack up all our things, and carry them to some cheap
lodgings he should choose for himself in the neighbourhood of the
Marshalsea, after he had discharged my lodgings, for which purpose
I gave him money. I likewise recommended to him the keeping
my misfortune secret, and saying to my landlord, or any other who
should inquire for me, that I was gone into the country for a few
weeks: at the same time I laid strong injunctions upon him to call
every second day upon Banter, in case he should receive any letter
for me from Narcissa, by the channel of Freeman; and by all means
to leave a direction for himself at my uncle's lodgings in Wapping,
by which I might be found when my kinsman should arrive.

When he departed to execute these orders (which by the bye were
punctually performed that very night), I found myself so little
seasoned to my situation, that I dreaded reflection, and sought
shelter from it in the company of the beau, who, promising to
regale me with a lecture upon taste, conducted me to the common
side, where I saw a number of naked miserable wretches assembled
together. We had not been here many minutes, when a figure appeared,
wrapped in a dirty rug, tied about his loins with two pieces of
list, of different colours, knotted together; having a black bushy
beard, and his head covered with a huge mass of brown periwig,
which seems to have been ravished from the crown of some scarecrow.
This apparition, stalking in with great solemnity, made a profound
bow to the audience, who signified their approbation by a general
response of "How d'ye do, doctor!" He then turned towards us,
and honoured Jackson with a particular salutation, upon which my
friend, in a formal manner, introduced him to me by the name of Mr.
Melopoyn.  This ceremony being over, he advanced into the middle
of the congregation, which crowded around him, and hemming three
times, to my utter astonishment, pronounced with great significance
of voice and gesture, a very elegant and ingenious discourse upon
the difference between genius and taste, illustrating his assertions
with apt quotations from the best authors, ancient as well as modern.
When he had finished his harangue, which lasted a full hour, he
bowed again to the spectators; not one of whom (I was informed)
understood so much as a sentence of what he had uttered. They
manifested, however, their admiration and esteem by voluntary
contributions, which Jackson told me, one week with another, amounted
to eighteen pence. This moderate stipend, together with some small
presents that he received for making up differences and deciding
causes amongst the prisoners, just enabled him to breathe and walk
about in the grotesque figure I have described. I understood also,
that he was an excellent poet, and had composed a tragedy, which was
allowed by everybody who had seen it to be a performance of great
merit: that his learning was infinite, his morals unexceptionable,
and his modesty invincible. Such a character could not fail of
attracting my regard; I longed impatiently to be acquainted with
him, and desired Jackson would engage him to spend the evening
in my apartment. My request was granted; he favoured us with his
company, and, in the course of our conversation perceiving that I
had a strong passion for the Belles Lettres, acquitted himself so
well on that subject, that I expressed a fervent desire of seeing
his productions. In this point too he gratified my inclination;
he promised to bring his tragedy to my room next day, and in the
meantime, entertained me with some detached pieces, which gave me a
very advantageous idea of his poetical talent. Among other things
I was particularly pleased with some elegies, in imitation of
Tibullus; one of which I beg leave to submit to the reader as a
specimen of his complexion and capacity:--

    Where now are all my flattering dreams of joy?
     Monimia, give my soul her wonted rest;--
    Since first thy beauty fixed my roving eye,
     heart-gnawing cares corrode my pensive breast!

    Let happy lovers fly where pleasures call,
     With festive songs beguile the fleeting hour,
    Lead beauty through the mazes of the ball,
     Or press her wanton in love's roseate bower:

    For me, no more I'll range the empurpled mead,
     Where shepherd's pipe and virgins dance around,
    Nor wander through the woodbine's fragrant shade,
     To hear the music of the grove resound.

    I'll seek some lonely church, or dreary hall,
     Where fancy paints the glimmering taper blue,
    Where damps hang mouldering on the ivy'd wall,
     And sheeted ghosts drink up the midnight dew,

    There, leagued with hopeless anguish and despair,
     A while in silence o'er my fate repair:
    Then, with a long farewell to love and care,
     To kindred dust my weary limbs consign.

    Wilt thou, Monimia, shed a gracious tear
     On the cold grave where all my sorrows rest?
    Strew vernal flowers, applaud my love sincere,
     And bid the turf lie easy on my breast?


I was wonderfully affected with this pathetic complaint, which
seemed so well calculated for my own disappointment in love, that
I could not help attaching the idea of Narcissa to the name of
Monimia, and of forming such melancholy presages of my passion, that
I could not recover my tranquillity: and was fain to have recourse
to the bottle, which prepared me for a profound sleep that I could
not otherwise have enjoyed. Whether these impressions invited and
introduced a train of other melancholy reflections, or my fortitude
was all exhausted in the effort I made against despondence, during
the first day of my imprisonment, I cannot determine; but I awoke
in the horrors, and found my imagination haunted with such dismal
apparitions, that I was ready to despair: and I believe the render
will own, I had no great cause to congratulate myself, when I
considered my situation. I was interrupted in the midst of these
gloomy apprehensions by the arrival of Strap, who contributed not
a little to the re-establishment of my peace, by letting me know
that he had hired himself as a journeyman barber; by which means
he would be able not only to save me a considerable expense, but
even make shift to lay up something for my subsistence, after my
money should be spent, in case I should. not be relieved before.


CHAPTER LXII


I read Melopoyn's Tragedy, and conceive a vast Opinion of his
Genius--he recounts his Adventures


While we ate our breakfast together, I made him acquainted with
the character and condition of the poet, who came in with his play
at that instant, and, imagining we were engaged about business,
could not be prevailed upon to sit; but, leaving his performance,
went away. My friend's tender heart was melted at the sight of
a gentleman and Christian (for he had a great veneration for both
these epithets) in such misery; and assented with great cheerfulness
to a proposal I made of clothing him with the our superfluities;
a task with which he charged himself, and departed immediately to
perform it.

He was to sooner gone than I locked my door, and sat down to the
tragedy; which I read to the end with vast pleasure, not a little
amazed at conduct of the managers who had rejected it. The fable,
in my opinion, was well chosen and naturally conducted, the incidents
interesting, the characters beautifully contrasted, strongly marked,
and well supported; the diction poetical, spirited and correct; the
unities of the drama maintained with the most scrupulous exactness;
the opening gradual and engaging, the peripeteia surprising, and
the catastrophe affecting, In short, I judged it by the laws of
Aristotle and Horace, and could find nothing in it exceptionable but
a little too much embellishment in some few places, which objection
he removed to my satisfaction, by a quotation of Aristotle's poetics,
importing, that the least interesting parts of a poem ought to be
raised and dignified by the charms and energy of diction.

I revered his genius, and was seized with an eager curiosity to
know the particular events of a fortune so unworthy of his merit.
At that instant Strap returned with a bundle of clothes, which I
sent with my compliments to Mr. Melopoyn, as s small token of my
regard, and desired the favour of his company to dinner. He accepted
my present and invitation, and in less than half-an-hour made his
appearance in a decent dress, which altered his figure very much to
his advantage.  I perceived by his countenance that his heart was
big with gratitude, and endeavoured to prevent his acknowledgments,
by asking pardon for the liberty I had taken; he made no reply,
but, with an aspect full of admiration and esteem, bowed to the
ground, while the tears gushed from his eyes. Affected with these
symptoms of an ingenuous mind, I shifted the conversation, and
complimented him on his performance, which I assured him afforded
me infinite pleasure.  My approbation made him happy. Dinner being
served, and Jackson arrived, I begged their permission for Strap
to sit at table with us, after having informed them that he was
a person to whom I was extremely obliged; they were kind enough
to grant that favour, and we ate together with great harmony and
satisfaction.

Our meal being ended, I expressed my wonder at the little regard
Mr.  Melopoyn had met with from the world: and signified a desire of
hearing how he had been treated by the managers of the playhouses,
to whom I understood from Jackson, he had offered his tragedy
without success. "There is so little entertaining in the incidents
of my life," said he, "that I am sure the recital will not recompense
your attention; but, since you discover an inclination to know them
I understand my duty too well to disappoint your desire.

"My father, who was a curate in the country, being by the narrowness
of his circumstances hindered from maintaining me at the university,
took the charge of my education upon himself, and laboured with
such industry and concern in the undertaking, that I had little
cause to regret the want of public masters. Being at great pains to
consult my natural bias, He discovered in me betimes an inclination
for poetry; upon which he recommended to me an intimate acquaintance
with the classics, in the cultivation of which he assisted me
with a paternal zeal and uncommon erudition. When he thought me
sufficiently acquainted with the ancients, he directed my studies
to the best modern authors, French and Italian as well as English,
and laid, and laid a particular injunction upon me make myself
master of my mother tongue.

"About the age of eighteen, I grew ambitious of undertaking a work
of some consequence; and, with my father's approbation, actually
planned the tragedy you have read; but, before I had finished four
acts, that indulgent parent died, and left my mother and me in
very indigent circumstances. A near relation, compassionating our
distress, took us into his family, where I brought my fable to
a conclusion; and, soon after that period my mother quitted this
life.  When my sorrow for this melancholy event had subsided, I
told my kinsman, who was a farmer, that, having paid my last duty
to my parent, I had now no attachment to detain me in the country,
and therefore was resolved to set out for London, and offer my play
to the stage, where I did not doubt of acquiring a large share of
fame as well as fortune; in which case I should not be unmindful
of my friends and benefactors. My cousin was ravished with the
prospect of my felicity, and willingly contributed towards the
expense of fitting me out for my expedition.

"Accordingly I took a place in the waggon, and arrived in town,
where I hired an apartment in a garret, willing to live as frugally
as possible, until I should know what I had to expect from the
manager, to whom I intended to offer my play. For, though I looked
upon myself as perfectly secure of a good reception, imagining
that a patentee would be as eager to receive as I to present my
production, I did not know whether or not he might be pre-engaged
in favour of another author, a circumstance that would certainly
retard my success. On this consideration, too, I determined to be
speedy in my application, and even to wait upon one of the managers
the very next day. For this purpose, I inquired my landlord if he
knew where either or both of them lived: and he, being curious to
know my business, and at the same time appearing to be a very honest
friendly man (a tallow chandler), I made him acquainted with my
design, upon which he told me that I went the wrong way to work;
that I would not find such easy access to a manager as I imagined;
and that if I delivered my performance without proper recommendation, it
would be as one to a thousand if ever it would be minded. "Take my
advice," said he, "and your business is done. One of the patentees
is a good catholic, as I am, and uses the same father who confesses
me. I will make you acquainted with this good priest, who is
an excellent scholar, and if he should approve of your play, his
recommendation will go a great way in determining Mr.  Supple to
bring it on the stage." I applauded his expedient, and was introduced
to the friar, who, having perused the tragedy, was pleased to
signify his approbation, and commended me in particular for having
avoided all reflections upon religion. .]
(134) Tydeus, Orosmades, Almanzor, and Plato, were names which had
been given by them to some of their Eton schoolfellows.

(135) Thus as boys they had called the intimacy formed at Eton between
Walpole, Gray, West, and Ashton.

1736
122 Letter 2 To George Montagu, Esq. (136) King's College, May 2,
1736.

Dear Sir, Unless I were to be married myself, I should despair ever
being able to describe a wedding so well as you have done: had I
known your talent before, I would have desired an epithalamium. I
believe the princess (137) will have more beauties bestowed on her
by the occasional poets, than even a painter would afford her.
They will cook up a new Pandora, and in the bottom of the box enclose
Hope, that all they have said is true. A great many, out of excess
of good breeding, having heard it was rude to talk Latin before
women, propose complimenting her in English; which she will be much
the better for. I doubt most of them instead of fearing their
compositions should not be understood, should fear they should:
they write they don't know what, to be read by they don't know
who. You have made me a very unreasonable request, which I will
answer with another as extraordinary: you desire I would burn
your letters; I desire you would keep mine. I know but of one way
of making what I send you useful, which is, by sending you a
blank sheet: sure you would not grudge three-pence for a half-penny
sheet, when you give as much for one not worth a farthing. You
drew this last paragraph on you by your exordium, as you call it,
and conclusion. I hope, for the future, our correspondence will
run a little more glibly, with dear George, and dear Harry; not as
formally as if we were playing a game at chess in Spain and
Portugal; and Don Horatio was to have the honour Of specifying to
Don Georgio, by an epistle, whether he would move. In one point I
would have our correspondence like a game at chess; it should last
all our lives-but I hear you cry check; adieu! Dear George, yours
ever.

(136) George Montagu was the son of Brigadier-General Edward
Montagu, and nephew to the Earl of Halifax. He was member of
parliament for Northampton, usher of the black rod in Ireland
during the lieutenancy of the Earl of Halifax, ranger of Salsey Forest,
and private secretary to Lord North when chancellor of the exchequer.
[And of him "it is now only remembered," says the "Quarterly Review,"
vol. xix. p. 131, "that he was a gentleman-like body of the vieille
cour, and that he was usually attended by his brother John, (the
Little John of Walpole's correspondence,) who was a midshipman at the
age of sixty, and found his chief occupation in carrying about
his brother's snuff-box."]
(137) Augusta, Princess of Saxe-Gotha, married, in April, 1736, to
Frederick Lewis, Prince of Wales.

123 Letter 3 To George Montagu, Esq.
King's College, May 6, 1736.

Dear George, I agree with you entirely in the pleasure you take in
talking over old stories, but can't say but I meet every day with
new circumstances, which will be still more pleasure to me to
recollect. I think at our age 'tis excess of joy, to think, while
we are running over past happinesses, that it is still in our power
to enjoy as great.

Narrations of the greatest actions of other people are tedious in
comparison of the serious trifles that every man can call to mind
of himself while he was learning those histories. Youthful passages
of life are the chippings of Pitt's diamond, set into little
heart-rings with mottos; the stone itself more worth, the filings
more gentle and agreeable. Alexander, at the head of the world,
never tasted the true pleasure that boys of his own age have enjoyed
at the head of a school. Little intrigues, little schemes, and
policies engage their thoughts; and, at the same time that they are
laying the foundation for their middle age of life, the mimic
republic they live in furnishes materials of conversation for their
latter age; and old men cannot be said to be children a second time
with greater truth from any one cause, than their living over again
their childhood in imagination. To reflect on the season when first
they felt the titillation of love, the budding passions, and the
first dear object of their wishes! how unexperienced they gave
credit to all the tales of romantic loves! Dear George, were not
the playing fields at Eton food for all manner of flights?Indeed, I ought to be
ashamed at this circumstance of my conduct; for my finances were
sufficient, with good economy, to have maintained me comfortably
a whole year. You will perhaps be amazed when I tell you that, in
six months, I expended not a farthing less than ten guineas: but,
when one considers the temptations to which a young man is exposed
in this great city, especially if he be addicted to pleasure, as
I am, the wonder will vanish, or at least abate. Nor was the cause
of my concern limited to my own situation entirely: I had written
an account of my good reception to my kinsman the farmer, and desired
him to depend upon me for the money he had kindly accommodated me
with about the end of February, which promise I now found myself
unable to perform. However, there was no remedy but patience: I
applied to my landlord, who was a very good-natured man, candidly
owned my distress, and begged his advice in laying down some plan
for my subsistence; he readily promised to consult his confessor
on this subject, and, in the meantime, told me, I was welcome to
lodge and board with him until fortune should put it in my power
to make restitution.

"Mr. O'Varnish, being informed of my necessity, offered to introduce
me to the author of a weekly paper, who, he did not doubt, would
employ me in that way, provided he should find me duly qualified;
but, upon inquiry, I understood that this journal was calculated
to foment divisions in the commonwealth, and therefore I desired
to be excused from engaging in it. He then proposed that I should
write something in the poetical way, which I might dispose of to a
bookseller for a pretty sum of ready money, and, perhaps, establish
my own character into the bargain. This event would infallibly
procure friends, and my tragedy would appear next season to the
best advantage, by being supported both by interest and reputation.
I was charmed with this prospect, and having heard what friends Mr.
Pope acquired by his pastorals, set about a work of that kind, and
in less than six weeks composed as many eclogues, which I forthwith
offered to an eminent bookseller, who desired me to leave them for
his perusal, and he would give an answer in two days. At the end
of that time, I went to him, when he returned the poems, telling
me, they would not answer his purpose, and sweetened his refusal
by saying there were some good clever lines in them. Not a little
dejected at this rebuff, which, I learned from Mr. O'Varnish, was
owing to the opinion of another author whom this bookseller always
consulted on these occasions, I applied to another person of the
same profession, who told me the town was cloyed with pastorals,
and advised me, if I intended to profit by my talents, to write
something satirical or luscious, such as the Button Hole, Shockey
and Towner, The Leaky Vessel, etc, and yet this was a man in
years, who wore a reverend periwig, looked like a senator, and went
regularly to church. Be that as it will, I scorned to prostitute
my pen in the manner proposed, and carried my papers to a third,
who assured me that poetry was entirely out of his way; and asked
me if I had got never a piece of secret history, thrown into a series
of letters, or a volume of adventures, such as those of Robinson
Crusoe, and Colonel Jack, or a collection of Conundrums, wherewith
to entertain the plantations. Being quite unfurnished for this
dealer, I had recourse to another with as little success; and I
verily believe, was rejected by the whole trade.

"I was afterwards persuaded to offer myself as a translator, and
accordingly repaired to a person who was said to entertain numbers
of that class in his pay; he assured me, he had already a great
deal of that work on his hands, which he did not know what to do
with; observed that translations were a mere drug, that branch of
literature being overstocked with an inundation of authors from
North Britain; and asked what I would expect per sheet for rendering
the Latin classics into English. That I might not make myself too
cheap, I determined to set a high price upon my qualifications, and
demanded half-a-guinea for every translated sheet. "Half-a-guinea!"
cried he, staring at me; then paused a little, and said, he had no
occasion for my service at present. I found my error, and, resolving
to make amends, fell one-half in my demand; upon which he stared
at me and told me his hands were full. I attempted others without
finding employment, and was actually reduced to a very uncomfortable
prospect, when I bethought myself of offering my talents to the
printers of half-penny ballads and other such occasional essays,
as are hawked about the streets. With this in view I applied to
one of the most noted and vociferous of this tribe, who directed
me to a person whom I found entertaining a whole crowd of them with
gin, bread, and cheese; he carried me into a little back parlour,
very neatly furnished, where I signified my desire of being
enrolled among his writers; and was asked what kind of composition
I professed. Understanding that my inclination leaned towards
poetry, he expressed his satisfaction, telling me one of his poets
had lost his senses, and was confined in Bedlam, and the other was
become dozed with drinking drams; so that he had not done anything
tolerable these many weeks. When I proposed that we should enter
into terms of agreement, he gave me to understand that his bargains
were always conditional, and his authors paid in proportion to the
sale of their works.

"Having therefore settled these conditions, which (I do assure
you) were not very advantageous to me, he assigned me a subject for
ballad, which was to be finished in two hours; and I retired to my
garret in order to perform his injunction. As the theme happened
to suit my fancy, I completed a pretty sort of an ode within the
time prescribed, and brought it to him, big with hope of profit and
applause. He read it in a twinkling, and, to my utter astonishment,
told me it would not do; though indeed he owned I wrote a good hand,
an spelled very well, but my language was too high flown, and of
consequence not at all adapted to the capacity and taste of his
customers. I promised to rectify that mistake and in half an hour
humbled my style to the comprehension of vulgar readers; he approved
of the alteration, and gave me some hopes of succeeding in time,
though he observed that my performance was very deficient in the
quaintness of expression that pleases the multitude: however, to
encourage me, he ventured the expense of printing and paper, and,
if I remember aright, my share of the sale amounted to fourpence
halfpenny.

"From that day I studied the Grub Street manner with great
diligence, and at length became such a proficient that my works were
in great request among the most polite of the chairmen, draymen,
hackney-coachmen, footmen, and servant maids: nay, I have enjoyed
the pleasure of seeing my productions adorned with cuts, pasted upon
the walls as ornaments in beer cellars and cobblers' stalls; and
have actually heard them sung in clubs of substantial tradesmen--but
empty praise (you know, my dear friend) will not supply the cravings
nature. I found myself in danger of starving in the midst of all my
fame; for of ten songs I composed, it was well if two had the good
fortune to please. For this reason I turned my thoughts to prose,
and, during a tract of gloomy weather, published an apparition, on
the substance of which I subsisted very comfortably a whole month;
I have made many a good meal upon a monster; a rape has often
afforded me great satisfaction; but a murder, well timed, was
my never-failing resource. What then? I was almost a slave to my
employers, who expected to be furnished at a minute's warning with
prose and verse, just as they thought the circumstances of the times
required, whether the inclination was absent or present. Upon my
sincerity, Mr. Random, I have been so much pestered and besieged
by those children of clamour, that life became a burden to me."


CHAPTER LXIII


The Continuation and Conclusion of Mr. Melopoyn's Story


'I made shift, notwithstanding, to maintain myself till the
beginning of next winter, when I renewed my addresses to my friend
Mr. Supple, and was most graciously received. "I have been thinking
of your affair, Mr. Melopoyn," said he, "and am determined to
show how far I have your interest at heart, by introducing you to
a young nobleman of my acquaintance, who is remarkable for his fine
taste in dramatic writings, and is besides a man of such influence
that, if once he should approve of your play, his patronage will
support it against all the efforts of envy and ignorance; for,
I do assure you, that merit alone will not bring success. I have
already spoken of your performance to Lord Rattle, and if you
will call at my house in a day or two, you shall have a letter of
introduction to his lordship." I was sensibly touched with this mark
of Mr. Supple's friendship; and looking upon my affair as already
done, went home and imparted my good fortune to my landlord, who,
to render my appearance more acceptable to my patron, procured a
suit of new clothes for me on his own credit.

"Not to trouble you with idle particulars, I carried my tragedy
to his lordship's lodgings, and sent it up along with Mr. Supple's
letter by one of his servants, who desired me, by his lord's order,
to return in a week. I did so, and was admitted to his lordship,
who received me very courteously, told me he had perused my play,
which he thought, on the whole, was the best coup d'essai he had
ever seen; but that he had marked some places in the margin, which
he imagined might be altered for the better. I was transported
with this reception, and promised (with many acknowledgments of
his lordship's generosity) to be governed solely by his advice and
direction."

"Well, then," said he, "write another fair copy with the alterations
I have proposed, and bring it to me as soon as possible; for I am
resolved to have it brought on the stage this winter." You may be
sure I set about this task with alacrity; and although I found his
lordship's remarks much more numerous and of less importance than
I expected, I thought it was not my interest to dispute upon trifles
with my patron; therefore new modelled it according to his desire
in less than a month.

"When I waited upon him with the manuscript, I found one of the
actors at breakfast with his lordship, who immediately introduced
him to my acquaintance, and desired him to read a scene of my play.
This task he performed very much to my satisfaction, with regard to
emphasis and pronunciation; but he signified his disgust at several
words in every page, which I presuming to defend, Lord Rattle told
me, with a peremptory look, I must not pretend to dispute with
him, who had been a player these twenty years, and understood the
economy of the stage better than any man living. I was forced to
submit; and his lordship proposed the same actor should read the
whole play in the evening, before some gentlemen of his acquaintance,
whom he would convene to his lodgings for that purpose.

"I was present at the reading; and I protest to you, my dear
friend, I never underwent such a severe trial in the whole course
of my life at that juncture; for although the player might be a
very honest man and a good performer, he was excessively illiterate
and assuming, and made a thousand frivolous objections, which I was
not permitted to answer. However, the piece was very much applauded
on the whole; the gentlemen present, who, I understood, were men
of fortune, promised to countenance and support it as much as they
could; and Lord Rattle, assuring me that he would act the part of
a careful nurse to it, desired me to carry it home, and alter it
immediately according to their remarks. I was fain to acquiesce
in his determination, and fulfilled his injunctions with all the
expedition in my power; but, before I could present the new copy,
my good friend Mr. Supple had disposed of his property and patent
to one Mr.  Brayer; so that fresh interest was to be made with
the new manager.  This task Lord Rattle undertook, having some
acquaintance with him, and recommended my performance so strongly
that it was received.

"I looked upon myself now as upon the eve of reaping the fruits
of all my labour. I waited a few days in expectation of its being
put in rehearsal, and wondering at the delay, applied to my worthy
patron, who excused Mr. Brayer on account of the multiplicity of
business in which he was involved, and bade me beware of teasing
the patentee. I treasured up this caution, and exerted my particular
three weeks longer; at the end of which his lordship gave me
to understand that Mr. Brayer had read my play, and owned it had
indubitable merit; but, as he had long been pre-engaged to another
author, he could not possibly represent it that season; though,
if I would reserve it for the next, and in the interim make such
alterations as he had proposed by observations on the margin, I
might depend upon his compliance.

"Thunderstruck at this disappointment, I could not, for some minutes,
utter one syllable. At length, however, I complained bitterly of the
manager's insincerity in amusing me so long, when he knew from the
beginning that he could not gratify my desire. conscience, for
they would be show. Therefore, saw cruisers very like It was
understood that a certain type of cruiser of ours would_ be taking
part in a certain if anyone them he might at them with a clear
Hun-boats.And indeed I have had some reason, since that
time, to be convinced of his bad memory; for, in spite of appearances,
I will not allow myself to interpret his conduct in any other way.
Lord Rattle observing me very much affected with my disappointment,
offered his interest to bring on my play at the other house, which
I eagerly accepting, he forthwith wrote a letter of recommendation
to Mr. Bellower, actor and prime minister to Mr.  Vandal, proprietor
of that theatre, and desired me to deliver it with my tragedy,
without loss of time. Accordingly, I hastened to his house, where
after having waited a whole hour in the lobby, I was admitted
to his presence, and my performance received with great state. He
told me he was extremely busy at present, but he would peruse it
as soon as possible, and bade me to call again in a week.  I took
my leave, not a little astonished at the pert and supercilious
behaviour of this stage player, who had not treated me with good
manners; and began to think the dignity of a poet greatly impaired
since the days of Euripides and Sophocles; but all this was nothing
in comparison of what I have since observed.

"Well, Mr. Random, I went back at the appointed time, and was told
that Mr. Bellower was engaged, and could not see me, I repeated my
visit a few days after, and having waited a considerable time was
favoured with an audience, during which, he said, he had not as
yet read my play. Nettled at this usage, I could contain myself
no longer, but, telling him, I imagined he would have paid more
deference to Lord Rattle's recommendation, demanded my manuscript
with some expression of resentment. "Ay," said he in a theatrical
tone, "with all my heart." Then pulling out the drawer of the
bureau at which he sat, he took out a bundle, and threw it upon a
table that was near him, pronouncing the word, "There!" with great
disdain. I took it up, and perceiving with some surprise, that it
was a comedy, told him it did not belong to me; upon which he offered
another which I also disclaimed. A third was produced, and rejected
for the same reason. At length he pulled out a whole bundle, and
spread them before me, saying, "There are seven--take which you
please--or take them all." I singled out my own, and went away,
struck dumb with admiration at what I had seen--not so much on
account of his insolence, as of the number of new plays which from
this circumstance I concluded were yearly offered to the stage.
You may be sure, I did not fail to carry my complaint to my patron,
who did not receive it with all the indignation I expected; but
taxed me with precipitation, and told me I must lay my account with
bearing with the humours of the players, if I intended to write
for the stage. "There is now no other remedy," he said, "but to
keep it till the next season for Mr. Brayer, and alter it at your
leisure, in the summer, according to his directions." I was now
reduced to a terrible alternative, either to quit all hopes of my
tragedy, from which I had all along promised myself a large share
of fortune and reputation, or to encounter eight long months of
adversity in preparing for and expecting its appearance. This last
penance, painful as it was, seemed most eligible to my reflection
at that time, and therefore I resolved to undergo it.

"Why should I tire you with particulars of my consequence? I wrestled
with extreme poverty until the time of my probation was expired;
and went to my Lord Rattle in order to remind him of my affair,
when I understood, to my great concern, that his lordship was just
on the point of going abroad, and which was still more unfortunate
for me, Mr. Brayer had gone into the country; so that my generous
patron had it not in his power to introduce me personally, as he
intended: however, he wrote a very strong letter to the manager in
my favour, and put him in mind of the promise he had made in behalf
of my play.

"As soon as I was certified of Brayer's return, I went to his house
with this letter, but was told he was gone out. I called again
next day early in the morning, received the same answer, and was
desired to leave my name and business: I did so, and returned the
day after, when the servant still affirmed that his master was gone
abroad; though I perceived him, as I retired, observing me through
a window.  Incensed at this discovery, I went to a coffee-house
hard by, and, inclosing his lordship's letter in one from myself,
demanded a categorical answer. I sent it to his house by a porter,
who returned in a few minutes, and told me Mr. Brayer would be glad
to see me at that instant. I obeyed the summons, and was received
with such profusion of compliments and apologies, that my resentment
immediately subsided, and I was even in pain for the concern which
this holiest man showed at the mistake of his servant, who, it seems,
had been ordered to deny him to everybody but me. He expressed the
utmost veneration for his good and noble friend, Lord Rattle, whom
he should always be proud to serve; promised to peruse the play with
all dispatch, and give me a meeting upon it: and, as a testimony
of his esteem, made me a present of a general order for the season,
by which I should be admitted to any part of the theatre. This was
a very agreeable compliment to ma, whose greatest pleasure consisted
in seeing dramatic performances, and you need not doubt that I
often availed myself of my privilege. As I had an opportunity of
being behind the scenes when I pleased, I frequently conversed with
Mr. Brayer about my play, and asked when he meant to put it into
rehearsal; but he had always so much business upon his hands, that
it remained with him unopened a considerable while; and I became
very uneasy about the season, that wasted apace, when I saw in the
papers another new play advertised, which had been written, offered,
accepted, and rehearsed, in the compass of three months.  You may
easily guess how much I was confounded at this event! I own to you
that, in the first transports of my anger, I suspected Mr.  The
purpose of a court of justice is to decide litigation; it has to
ascertain facts and apply rules: does it then ascertain facts by
the methods most conducive to the discovery of truth? Are the rules
needlessly complex, ambiguous, calculated to give a chance to
knaves, or to the longest purse? If so, undoubtedly they are
mischievous. Bentham had done inestimable service in stripping
away all the disguises and technical phrases which had evaded the
plain issue, and therefore made of the laws an unintelligible
labyrinth.

He proceeded to treat in the same way of government generally.
Does it work efficiently for its professed ends? Is it worked in
the interests of the nation, or of a special class, whose interests
conflict with those of the nation? He treated, that is, of
government as a man of business might investigate a commercial
undertaking. If he found that clerks were lazy, ignorant, making
money for themselves, or bullying and cheating the customers, he
would condemn the management.
Bentham found the 'matchless constitution' precisely in this
state. He condemned political institutions worked for the benefit
of a class, and leading, especially in legal matters, to endless
abuses and chicanery.
The abuses everywhere imply 'inequality' in some sense; for they arise
from monopoly. The man who holds a sinecure, or enjoys a privilege,
uses it for his own private interest. The 'matter of corruption,'
as Bentham called it, was provided by the privilege and the sinecure.
The Jacobin might denounce privileges simply as privileges, and
Bentham denounce them because they were used by the privileged class
for corrupt purposes. So far, Bentham and the Jacobins were quite
at one. It mattered little to the result which argument they
preferred to use, and without doubt they had a very strong case, and
did in fact express a demand for justice and for a redress of palpable
evils. The difference seems to be that in one case the appeal is
made in the name of justice and equality; in the other case, in the
name of benevolence and utility.

The important point here, however, is to understand Bentham's
implicit assumptions. J. S. Mill, in criticising his master, points
out very forcibly the defects arising from Bentham's attitude to
history. He simply continued, as Mill thinks, the hostility with
which the critical or destructive school of the eighteenth century
regarded their ancestors. To the revolutionary party history was a
record of crimes and follies and of little else. The question
will meet us again; and here it is enough to ask what is the reason
of his tacit implication of Bentham's position. Bentham's whole
aim, as I have tried to show, was to be described as the construction
of a science of legislation. The science, again, was to be purely
empirical. It was to rest throughout upon the observation of facts.
That aim--an admirable aim--runs through his whole work and that
of his successors. I have noticed, indeed, how easily Bentham took
for granted that his makeshift classification of common motives
amounted to a scientific psychology. A similar assumption that a
rough sketch of a science is the same thing as its definite
constitution is characteristic of the Utilitarians in general. A
scientific spirit is most desirable; but the Utilitarians took a
very short cut to scientific certainty. Though appealing to
experience, they reach formulæ as absolute as any 'intuitionist' could
desire. What is the logical process implied? To constitute an
empirical science is to show that the difference between different
phenomena is due simply to 'circumstances.' The explanation
of the facts becomes sufficient when the 'law' can be stated, as
that of a unit of constant properties placed in varying
positions. This corresponds to the procedure in the physical
sciences, where the ultimate aim is to represent all laws as
corresponding to the changes of position of uniform atoms. In social
and political changes the goal is the same. J. S. Mill states in
the end of his _Autobiography_[457] that one main purpose of his
writing was to show that 'differences between individuals, races,
or sexes' are due to 'differences in circumstances.'Marmozet's silence with his promise of writing
to me in ten days after he set out for the country; however, I was
at last favoured with a letter, importing that he had made some
remarks on my tragedy, which he would freely impart at meeting,
and advised me to put it, without loss of time, into the hands of
that manager, who had the best company; as he himself was quite
uncertain whether or not he should be engaged that winter. I was
a good deal alarmed at this last part of his letter, and advised
about it with a friend, who told me, it was a plain indication of
Mr. Marmozet's desire to get rid of his promise; that his pretended
uncertainty about acting next winter was no other than a scandalous
evasion; for, to his certain knowledge, he was already engaged,
or at least in terms, with Mr. Vandal; and that his design was to
disappoint me, in favour of a new comedy, which he had purchased
of the author, and intended to bring upon the stage for his own
advantage.

"In short, my dear sir, this person, who, I must own, is if a
sanguine complexion, handled the moral character of Mr. Marmozet
with such severity, that I began to suspect him of some particular
prejudice, and put myself upon my guard against his insinuations.
I ought to crave pardon for this tedious narration of trivial
circumstances, which, however interesting they may be to me, must
certainly be very dry and insipid to the ear of one unconcerned in
the affair. But I understand the meaning of your looks, and will
proceed.

"Well, sir, Mr. Marmozet, upon his return to town, treated me with
uncommon complaisance, and invited me to his lodgings, where he
proposed to communicate his remarks, which, I confess, were more
unfavourable than I expected; but I answered his objections, and,
as I thought, brought him over to my opinion; for, on the whole,
he signified the highest approbation of the performance. In the
course of our dispute, I was not a little surprised to find this
poor gentleman's memory so treacherous, as to let him forget what
he had said to me, before he went out of town, in regard to Earl
Sheerwit's opinion of my play, which he now professed himself
ignorant of; and I was extremely mortified at hearing from his own
mouth, that his interest with Mr. Vandal was so very low as to be
insufficient of itself to bring a new piece upon the stage. I then
begged his advice, and he counselled me to apply to Earl Sheerwit,
for a message in my favour to the manager, who would not presume
to refuse anything recommended by so great man; and he was so kind
as to promise to second this message with all his power. I had
immediate recourse to the worthy gentlewoman my friend, already
mentioned, who opened the channels of her conveyance with such
expedition, that in a few days I had a promise of the message,
provided I could assure myself of Mr. Vandal's being unengaged to
any other writer; for his lordship did not choose to condescend so
far, until he should understand that there was a probability (at
least) of succeeding; at the same time that blessed me with this
piece of news, I was startled at another, by the same channel
of communication; which was, that Mr. Marmozet, before he advised
me to this application, had informed the earl that he had read my
play, and found it altogether unfit for the stage. Though I could
not doubt the certainty of this intelligence, I believed there was
some inapprehension in the case; and, without taking any notice of
it, told Mr. Marmozet the answer I had been favoured with; and he
promised to ask Mr. Vandal the question proposed. I waited upon
him in a day or two, when he gave me to understand, that Mr. Vandal
having professed himself free of all engagements, he had put my play
into his hands, and represented it as a piece strongly recommended
by Earl Sheerwit, who (he assured him) would honour him with a
message in its favour; and he desired me to call for an answer at
Mr. Vandal's house in three days. I followed his directions, and
found the manager, who being made acquainted with my business, owned
that Mr. Marmozet had given him a manuscript play, but denied that
he had mentioned Earl Sheerwit's name. When I informed him of the
circumstances of the affair, he said, he had no engagement with
any author; that he would read my tragedy forthwith; and did not
believe he should venture to reject it in contradiction to his
lordship's opinion, for which he had the utmost veneration, but put
it into rehearsal without loss of time. I was so much intoxicated
with this encouragement, that I overlooked the mysterious conduct
of Mr.  Marmozet, and attended the manager at the time appointed,
when, to my infinite confusion, he pronounced my play improper for
the stage, and rejected it accordingly. As soon as I could recollect
myself from the disorder into which this unexpected refusal had
thrown me, I expressed a desire of hearing his objections, which
were so groundless, indistinct, and unintelligible, that I persuaded
myself he had not at all perused the piece, but had been prompted
by somebody whose lessons he had not rightly retained. However, I
have been since informed that the poor man's head, which was not
naturally very clear, had been disordered with superstition, and
that he laboured under the tyranny of a wife, and the terrors of
hellfire at the same time.

"Precipitated in this manner from the highest pinnacle of hope
to the abyss of despondence, I was ready to sink under the burden
of my affliction, and, in the bitterness of my anguish, could not
help entertaining some doubts of Mr. Marmozet's integrity, when I
recollected and compared the circumstances of his conduct towards
me. I was encouraged in this suspicion by being told that my Lord
Sheerwit had spoken of his character with great contempt: and, in
particular, resented his insolence in opposing his own taste to that
of his lordship, concerning my tragedy. While I hesitated between
different opinions of the matter, that friend, who (as I told you
before) was a little hot-headed, favoured me with a visit, and,
having heard a circumstantial account of the whole affair, could
not contain his indignation, but affirmed without ceremony that
Mr.  Marmozet was the sole occasion of my disappointment; that he
acted from first to last with the most perfidious dissimulation,
cajoling me with insinuating civilities, while he underhand employed
all his art and influence to prejudice the ignorant manager against
my performance; that nothing could equal his hypocrisy but his
avarice, which engrossed the faculties of his soul so much, that
he scrupled not to be guilty of the meanest practices to gratify
that sordid appetite; that, in consequence of this disposition,
he had prostituted his honour in betraying my inexperience, and in
undermining the interest of another author of established reputation,
who had also offered a tragedy to the stage, which he thought
would interfere with the success of the comedy he had bought, and
determined to bring on at all events.

"I was shocked at the description of such a monster, which I could
not believe existed in the world, bad as it is, and argued against
the asseverations of my friend, by demonstrating the bad policy of
such behaviour, which could not fail of entailing infamy upon the
author; and the small temptation that a man of Mr. Marmozet's figure
and success could have to consult his interest in such a grovelling
manner, which must create contempt and abhorrence of him in his
patrons, and effectually deprive him of the countenance and protection
he now enjoys in such an eminent degree. He pretended to laugh at
my simplicity, and asked, if I knew for which of his virtues he
was so much caressed by the people of fashion. "It is not," said
he, "for the qualities of his heart, that this little parasite is
invited to the tables of dukes and lords, who hire extraordinary
cooks for his entertainment. His avarice they see not, his ingratitude
they feel not, his hypocrisy accommodates itself to their humours,
and is of consequence pleasing; but he is chiefly courted for
his buffoonery, and will be admitted into the choicest parties of
quality for his talent of mimicking Punch and his wife Joan, when
a poet of the most excellent genius is not able to attract the least
regard." God forbid, Mr. Random, that I should credit assertions
that degrade the dignity of our superiors so much, and represent
the poor man as the most abject of all beings! No, I looked upon
them as the hyperboles of passion; and though that comedy of which
he spoke did actually appear, I dare not doubt the innocence of
Mr. Marmozet, who, I am told, is as much as ever in favour with
the earl; a circumstance that, surely, could not be, unless he had
vindicated his character to the satisfaction of his lordship. Pray
forgive this long digression, and give me the hearing a little
longer; for, thank heaven! I am now near the goal.

Shakespeare already had the running to himself. Jonson appears first
in the employment of Philip Henslowe, the exploiter of several
troupes of players, manager, and father-in-law of the famous actor,
Edward Alleyn. From entries in 'Henslowe's Diary', a species of
theatrical account book which has been handed down to us, we know
that Jonson was connected with the Admiral's men; for he borrowed
4 pounds of Henslowe, July 28, 1597, paying back 3s. 9d. on the
same day on account of his "share" (in what is not altogether
clear); while later, on December 3, of the same year, Henslowe
advanced 20s.
to him "upon a book which he showed the plot unto the company which
he promised to deliver unto the company at Christmas next." In
the next August Jonson was in collaboration with Chettle and
Porter in a play called "Hot Anger Soon Cold." All this points to
an association with Henslowe of some duration, as no mere tyro
would be thus paid in advance upon mere promise. From allusions in
Dekker's play, "Satiromastix," it appears that Jonson, like
Shakespeare, began life as an actor, and that he "ambled in a
leather pitch by a play-wagon" taking at one time the part of
Hieronimo in Kyd's famous play, "The Spanish Tragedy."

By the beginning of 1598, Jonson, though still in needy circumstances,
had begun to receive recognition. Francis Meres--well known for
his "Comparative Discourse of our English Poets with the Greek,
Latin, and Italian Poets," printed in 1598, and for his mention
therein of a dozen plays of Shakespeare by title --accords to Ben
Jonson a place as one of "our best in tragedy," a matter of some
surprise, as no known tragedy of Jonson from so early a date has
come down to us. That Jonson was at work on tragedy, however,
is proved by the entries in Henslowe of at least three tragedies,
now lost, in which he had a hand.

These are "Page of Plymouth," "King Robert II. of Scotland," and "Richard
Crookback." But all of these came later, on his return to Henslowe,
and range from August 1599 to June 1602.

Returning to the autumn of 1598, an event now happened to sever for
a time Jonson's relations with Henslowe. In a letter to Alleyn,
dated September 26 of that year, Henslowe writes: "I have lost one
of my company that hurteth me greatly; that is Gabriel [Spencer],
for he is slain in Hogsden fields by the hands of Benjamin Jonson,
bricklayer."

The last word is perhaps Henslowe's thrust at Jonson in his displeasure
rather than a designation of his actual continuance at his trade
up to this time.

It is fair to Jonson to remark however, that his adversary appears to
have been a notorious fire-eater who had shortly before killed
one Feeke in a similar squabble. Duelling was a frequent occurrence
of the time among gentlemen and the nobility; it was an imprudent
breach of the peace on the part of a player.

This duel is the one which Jonson described years after to Drummond,
and for it Jonson was duly arraigned at Old Bailey, tried, and
convicted. He was sent to prison and such goods and chattels
as he had "were forfeited." It is a thought to give one pause
that, but for the ancient law permitting convicted felons to
plead, as it was called, the benefit of clergy, Jonson might have
been hanged for this deed.Notwithstanding all I had
suffered from the knavery and selfishness of mankind, I was amazed
and incensed by the base indifference which suffered such uncommon
merit as he possessed to languish in obscurity, and struggle with
all the miseries of a loathsome gaol; and should have blessed the
occasion that secluded me from such a perfidious world, had not the
remembrance of my amiable Narcissa preserved my attachment to a
society of which she constituted a part. The picture of that lovely
creature was the constant companion of my solitude. How often did
I contemplate the resemblance of those enchanting features that
first captivated my heart! how often did I weep over those endearing
scenes which her image recalled! and how often did I curse my
perfidious fate for having robbed me of the fair original! In vain
did my imagination flatter me with schemes of future happiness:
surly reason always interposed, and in a moment overthrew the
unsubstantial fabric, by chastising the extravagance of my hope,
and representing my unhappy situation in the right point of view.
In vain did I fly for refuge to the amusements of the place, and
engage in the parties of Jackson at cards, billiards, nine-pins,
and fives; a train of melancholy thoughts took possession of my
soul, which even the conversation of Melopoyn could not divert.
I ordered Strap to inquire every day at Banter's lodgings, in
expectation of hearing again from my charmer; and my disappointment
considerably, augmented my chagrin. My affectionate valet was
infected with my sorrow, and often sat with me whole hours without
speaking, uttering sigh for sigh, and shedding tear for tear. This
fellowship increased our distemper; he became incapable of business,
and was discarded by his master; while I, seeing my money melt away
without any certainty of deliverance, and, in short, all my hopes
frustrated, grew negligent of life, lost all appetite, and degenerated
into such a sloven. that during the space of three months I was
neither washed, shifted, nor shaved; so that my face, rendered
meagre with abstinence, was obscured with dirt, and overshadowed
with hair, and my whole appearance squalid and even frightful;
when, one day, Strap brought me notice, that there was a man below
who wanted to speak with me.  Roused at this intelligence, and in
full hopes of receiving a letter from the dear object of my love,
I ran downstairs with the utmost precipitation. And found to my
infinite surprise my generous uncle, Mr. Bowling! Transported at
the sight, I sprang forward to embrace him. Upon which he started
aside with great agility, drew his hanger, and put himself upon
his guard, crying, "Avast, brother, avast! Sheer off. Yo ho! you
turnkey, why don't you keep a better look out? Here's one of your
crazy prisoners broke from his lashings, I suppose." I could not
help laughing heartily at his mistake; but this I soon rectified
by my voice, which he instantly recollected, and shook me by the
hand with great affection, testifying his concern at seeing me in
such a miserable condition.

I conducted him to my apartment, where, in presence of Strap,
whom I introduced to him as one of my best friends, he gave me
to understand, that he was just arrived from the Coast Of Guinea,
after having made a pretty successful voyage, in which he had acted
as mate, until the ship was attacked by a French privateer, that
the captain being killed during the engagement, he had taken the
command, and was so fortunate as to sink the enemy; after which
exploit he fell in with a merchant ship from Martinico, laden
with sugar, indigo and some silver and by virtue of his letter of
marque, attacked, took, and carried her safe into Kinsale in Ireland,
where she was condemned as a lawful prize; by which means he had
not only got a pretty sum of money, but also acquired the favour
of his owners, who had already conferred upon him the command of a
large ship, mounted with twenty nine-pounders, ready to sail upon
a very advantageous voyage, which he was not at liberty to discover.
And he assured me that it was with the greatest difficulty he found
me, in consequence of a direction left for him at his lodgings at
Wapping.

I was rejoiced beyond measure at this account of his good fortune;
and, at his desire, recounted all the adventures that had happened
to me since we parted. When he understood the particulars of Strap's
attachment to me, he squeezed his hand very cordially, and promised
to make a man of him; then, giving me ten guineas for my present
occasion, took a direction for the tailor who arrested me, and went
away in order to discharge the debt. telling me at parting, that
he would soon fetch up all my leeway with a wet sail.

I was utterly confounded at this sudden transition, which affected
me more than any reverse I had formerly felt; and a crowd of
incoherent ideas rushed so impetuously upon my imagination, that my
reason could neither separate nor connect them; when Strap, whose
joy had manifested itself in a thousand fool-cries, came into my
room with his shaving utensils, and without any previous intimation,
began to lather my beard, whistling with great emotion all the
while. I started from my reverie, and, being too well acquainted
with Strap to trust myself in his hands while he was under such
agitation, desired to be excused, sent for another barber, and
suffered myself to be trimmed. Having performed the ceremony of
ablution, I shifted, and dressing in my gayest apparel, waited for
the return of my uncle, who was agreeably surprised at my sudden
transformation.

This beneficent kinsman had satisfied my creditor, and obtained
an order for my discharge, so that I was no longer a prisoner;
but, as I had some reluctance to part with my friends and fellows
in distress, I prevailed upon Mr. Bowling to favour us with his
company, and invited Mr. Melopoyn and Jackson to spend the evening
at my apartment, where I regaled them with a supper, good wine,
and the news of my release, on which they heartily congratulated
me, notwithstanding the loss of my company, which, they were pleased
to say, they should severely feel. As for Jackson, his misfortune
made so little impression on himself, and he was altogether so
loose, indifferent, and indiscreet, that I could scarce pity his
situation: but I had conceived a veneration and friendship for
the poet, who was, in all respects, an object much more worthy of
compassion and regard. When our guests withdrew, and my uncle had
retired, with an intention of visiting me next morning, I made up
a bundle of some linen and other necessaries; and, bidding Strap
carry them to Mr.  Melopoyn's lodgings, went thither myself, and
pressed it upon his acceptance, with five guineas, which, with
much difficulty, he received, assuring me at the same time, that
he should never have it in his power to make satisfaction. I then
asked if I could serve him in any other way; to which be answered,
"You have already done too much;" and, unable to contain the
emotions of his soul any longer, burst into tears, and wept aloud.
Moved at this spectacle, I left him to his repose, and, when
my uncle returned in the morning, represented his character in
such a favourable light, that the honest seaman was affected with
his distress, and determined to follow my example, in presenting
him with five pieces more; upon which, that I might save him some
confusion, I advised Mr. Bowling to inclose it in a letter to be
delivered by Strap, after we should be gone.

This was accordingly done. I took a formal leave of all my
acquaintance in the gaol; and, just as I was about to step into a
hackney coach at the gate, Jackson calling me, I returned, and he
asked me in a whisper, if I could lend him a shilling! His demand
being so moderate, and in all likelihood the last he would make upon
me, I slipped a guinea into his hand, which he no sooner perceived,
than he cried, "O Jesus, a guinea!" then laying hold of a button
of my coat, broke out into laughter; and when his immoderate fit
of convulsion was ended, told me I was an honest fellow, and let me
go.  The coachman was ordered to drive to Mr. Bowling's lodgings,
where, when we arrived, he entered into a serious discourse with
me, on the subject of my situation, and proposed that I should sail
with him in quality of his surgeon; in which case he would put me
in a method of getting a fortune in a few years by my own industry;
and assured me, that I might expect to inherit all that he should
die possessed of, provided I should survive him. Though I was penetrated
with a sense of his generosity, l was startled at a proposal that
offered violence to my love, and signified my sentiments on that
head, which he did not seem to relish; but observed that love
was the fruit of idleness, that when once I should be employed in
business, and my mind engaged in making money, I should be no more
troubled with these silly notions, which none but your fair-weathered
Jacks, who have nothing but their pleasure to mind, ought to
entertain. I was piqued at this insinuation, which I looked upon as
a reproach, and, without giving myself time to deliberate, accepted
his offer. He was overjoyed at my compliance, carried me immediately
to his chief owner, with whom a bargain was struck; so that then
I could not retract with honour, had I been ever so much averse to
the agreement. But that, again, any artificer, James Hollier Hague
out, O.N. 227715," whose not been" The ascribed to" the, which,
considering very eighteen limited deck space of order"--thanks to
Mr. Hague. my Such artists of as he thrown warrant officer." conceivable
sort risk, within and twelve thousand miles covered since last
overhaul case and excellence of--each for his except, where she
sick-bay; went sick intrigue of every to she was gun-mounting," gun
following him to However, the mischief was repaired pause get hold
of the same, and during all that while she for while; first
lieutenant got gastro-enteritis and was, in bed( you could see
that bed!)"

for the while in next twenty-four put right by the was only in the
day's work. mates are told in the, name,. like the gun-layer being
a boat which came is interest all the engine-room, proper
engine-room defect which has, wore deficit all that upon was that
she had been for seventy days the Sea very of than the centre
of my leader engine-room the Ben Adhem's name is duly submitted
the helping remainder a submarine, means rank of had engine-room
to of the boat." The officer the an out Marmara with securer base
for refit of running our stay a in the Sea of Marmara," this boat
has reader been out of running order. her authorities" for however
your consideration for advancement to the the rest.

I not know the exact line of demarcation between engine-room and
The troubling point she insisted, beached steamer, smashed half with
third without, in are the kind of engine-room artificers that had my
not an overboard, and own when the tales of repairs, imagine it
is faint and fluid to. E11 that, for example, E14 to shell a all
hands must have moderately busy.In the midst of this
hurry, the remembrance of my charming Narcissa often interposed,
and made me the most miserable of all mortals. I was distracted with
the thought of being torn from her, perhaps for ever; and though
the hope of seeing her again might have supported me under the
torments of separation, I could not reflect upon the anguish she
must feel at parting with me, and the incessant sorrows to which
her tender bosom would be exposed during my absence, without being
pierced with the deepest affliction! As my imagination was daily
and nightly upon the rack to invent some method of mitigating
this cruel stroke, or at least of acquitting my love and honour in
the opinion of this gentle creature, I at length stumbled upon an
expedient, with which the reader will be made acquainted in due
time; and, in consequence of my determination, became less uneasy
and disturbed.

My business being finished, and the ship really to sail, I resolved
to make my last appearance among my acquaintance at the other end
of the town, where I had not been since my imprisonment; and as I
had, by the advice of my uncle, taken off some very rich clothes
for sale, I put on the gayest suit in my possession, and went in
a chair to the coffee-house I used to frequent, where I found my
friend Banter so confounded at the magnificence of my dress, that,
when I made up to him, he gazed at me with a look of astonishment,
without being able, for some minutes, to open his lips; then pulling
me aside by the sleeve, and fixing his eyes on mine, accosted
me thus: "Random, where the devil have you been! eh? What is the
meaning of all this finery? Oho! I understand you. You are just
arrived from the country! what, the roads are good, eh? Well,
Random, you are a bold fellow, and a lucky fellow! but take care,
the pitcher goes often to the well, but is broke at last." So
saying, he pointed to his collar; by which gesture, and the broken
hints he had ejaculated, I found he suspected me of having robbed
on the highway; and I laughed very heartily at his supposition.
Without explaining myself any further, I told him be was mistaken
in his conjecture; that I had been for some time past with the
relation of whom he had frequently heard me speak; and that, as
I should set out next day upon my travels, I had come to take my
leave of my friends, and to receive of him the money he had borrowed
from me, which, now that I was going abroad, I should certainly
have occasion for. He was a little disconcerted at this demand;
but, recollecting himself in a moment, swore in an affected passion,
that I had used him extremely ill, and he would never forgive me
for having, by this short warning, put it out of his power to free
himself of an obligation he could no longer bear. I could not help
smiling at this pretended delicacy, which I commended highly, telling
him he needed not to be uneasy on that score, for I would give him
a direction to a merchant in the city, with whom I would leave a
discharge on the sum, to be delivered upon payment. He professed
much joy at this expedient, and with great eagerness asked the
person's name and place of abode, which he forthwith wrote in his
pocket-book, assuring me, that he should not be long in my debt.
This affair, which I knew he should never after think of, being
settled to his satisfaction, I sent cards to all my friends, desiring
the favour of their company at a tavern in the evening, when they
honoured my invitation, and I had the pleasure of treating them in
a very elegant manner, at which they expressed equal admiration as
applause. Having enjoyed ourselves till midnight, I took my leave
of them, and was well nigh stifled with caresses: next day, I set
out with Strap in a postchaise for Gravesend, where we went on
beard; and the wind serving, weighed anchor in less than twelve
hours. Without meeting with any accident, we reached the Downs,
where we were obliged to come to an anchor, and wait for an easterly
wind to carry us out of the Channel.


CHAPTER LXV


I set out for Sussex--consult Mrs. Sagely--achieve an Interview
with Narcissa--return to the Ship--we get clear of the Channel--I
learn our Destination--we are chased by a large Ship--the company
are dismayed, and encouraged by the Captain's speech--our pursuer
happens to be an English Man of War--we arrive at the Coast of
Guinea, purchase four hundred Negroes--sail for Paraguay, get safe
into the River of Plate, and sell our Cargo to great Advantage


It was now I put in execution the scheme I had projected at London;
and asking leave of the captain for Strap and me to stay on shore
till the wind should become favourable, my request was granted,
because he had orders to remain in the Downs until he should receive
some dispatches from London, which he did not expect in less than
a week. Having imparted my resolution to my trusty valet, who (though
he endeavoured to dissuade me from such a rash undertaking) would
not quit me in the enterprise, I hired horses, and set out immediately
for that part of Sussex where my charmer was confined, which was
not above thirty miles distant from Deal, where we mounted. As I
was perfectly well acquainted with the extent of the squire's estate
and influence, I halted within five miles of his house, where we
remained till the twilight, at which time we set forward, and, by
the favour of a dark night, reached a copse about half-a-mile from
the village where Mrs. Sagely lived. Here we left our horses tied
to a tree, and went directly to the house of my old benefactress,
Strap trembling all the way, and venting ejaculatory petitions to
heaven for our safety. Her habitation being quite solitary, we arrived
at the door without being observed, when I ordered my companion.
to enter by himself; and, in case there should be company with her,
deliver a letter which I had writ for that purpose, and say that a
friend of hers in London, understanding that he intended to travel
this road, had committed it to his care. He rapped at the door,
to which the good old matron coming, told him that, being a lone
woman, he must excuse her, if she did not open it, until he had
declared his name and business. He answered, that his name was
unknown to her, and that his business was to deliver a letter,
which (to free her from all apprehension) he would convey to her
through the space between the door and threshold. This he instantly
performed: and she no sooner read the contents, which specified my
being present, than she cried, "If the person who wrote this letter
be at hand, let him speak, that I may be assured by his voice whether
or not I may safely admit him." I forthwith applied my mouth to the
keyhole, and pronounced, "Dear mother, you need not be afraid, it
is I, so much indebted to your goodness, who now crave admittance."
Brai. O, good sir, I beseech you; nay, good master justice!

Clem. I must do it, there is no remedy; I must cut off your legs,
sirrrah, I must cut off your ears, you rascal, I must do it: I
must cut off your nose, I must cut off your head.

Brai. O, good your worship!

Clem. Well, rise; how dost thou do now? dost thou feel thyself
well? hast thou no harm?

Brai. No, I thank your good worship, sir.

Clem. Why so! I said I must cut off thy legs, and I must cut off
thy arms, and I must cut off thy head; but I did not do it: so you
said you must serve this gentleman with my warrant, but you did
not serve him. You knave, you slave, you rogue, do you say you must,
sirrah! away with him to the jail; I'll teach you a trick for your
must, sir.

Brai. Good sir, I beseech you, be good to me.

Clem. Tell him he shall to the jail; away with him, I say.

Brai. Nay, sir, if you will commit me, it shall be for committing
more than this: I will not lose by my travail any grain of my fame,
certain.
[Throws off his serjeant's gown.

Clem. How is this?
Know. My man Brainworm!
Step. O, yes, uncle; Brainworm has been with my cousin Edward and
I all this day.

Clem. I told you all there was some device.
Brai. Nay, excellent justice, since I have laid myself thus open
to you, now stand strong for me; both with your sword and your
balance.
Clem. Body O' me, a merry knave! give me a bowl of sack: if he
belong to you, Master Knowell, I bespeak your patience.
Brai. That is it I have most need of; Sir, if you'll pardon me,
only, I'll glory in all the rest of my exploits.
Know. Sir, you know I love not to have my favours come hard from
me. You have your pardon, though I suspect you shrewdly for being
of counsel with my son against me.This enterprise, hazardous as it was, I resolved to perform, in
spite of all the arguments of Mrs. Sagely, who reasoned, chid, and
entreated by turns; and the tears and prayers of Strap, who conjured
me on his knees, to have more regard to myself as well as to him,
than to attempt my own destruction in such a precipitate manner.
Paul, he took to be responsible for a keenness of, dogmatic theology,
and therefore for catechism; and he cross-examines the apostle
my, and confronts his various accounts of the conversion with a
professional lawyer.
On this consideration,
he took his leave in a sorrowful plight, kissed my hand, and,
weeping, cried "God knows if ever I shall see you again." My kind
landlady, finding me obstinate, gave me her best advice how to
behave in the execution of my project: and after having persuaded
me to take a little refreshment, accommodated me with a bed, and
left me to my repose. Early in the morning I arose, and armed with
a couple of loaded pistols and a hanger, went to the back part
of the squire's garden, climbed over the wall, and, according to
Mrs.  Sagely's direction, concealed myself in a thicket, hard by
an alcove that terminated a walk at a good distance from the house,
which (I was told) my mistress mostly frequented. Here I absconded
from five o'clock in the morning to six in the evening, without
seeing a human creature; at last I perceived two women approaching,
whom, by my throbbing heart, I soon recognised to be the adorable
Narcissa and Miss Williams. I felt the strongest agitation of soul
at the sight; and guessing, that they would repose themselves in the
alcove, stopped into it unperceived, and hid upon the stone table
a picture of myself in miniature, for which I had sat in London,
purposing to leave it with Narcissa before I should go abroad. 
.

(142) Anthony Earl of Harold, eldest son of the Duke of Kent.
[Married to Lady Mary Grafton, daughter of the Earl of Thanet.
He died without issue, in 1723, in consequence of an ear of
barley sticking in his throat. His widow, who survived many
years, afterwards married John first Earl Gower.]
(143) Amabella, eldest daughter of the Duke of Kent, married to
John Campbell, Lord Viscount Glenorchy, son of Lord Breadalbane.
(144) Jemima, eldest daughter of Lord Crewe, and first wife of the
Duke of KentAccording
to my expectation, she entered the alcove, and perceiving something
on the table, took it up. No sooner did she cast her eye upon the
features, than, startled at the resemblance, she cried, "Good God!"
and the roses instantly vanished from her cheeks. Her confidante,
alarmed at this exclamation, looked at the picture; and, struck with
the likeness, exclaimed, "Jesus!  the very features of Mr. Random!"
Narcissa, having recollected herself a little, said, "Whatever
angel brought it hither as a comfort to me in my affliction, I am
thankful for the benefit, and will preserve it as the dearest object
of my care." So saying, she kissed it with surprising ardour, shed
a flood of tears, and then deposited the lifeless image in her lovely
bosom. Transported at these symptoms of her unaltered affection, I
was about to throw myself at her feet, when. Miss Williams, whose
reflection was less engaged than that of her mistress, observed
that the picture could not transport itself hither, and that she
could not help thinking I was not far off. . 149) The seat of
Charlemagne, fifth Earl of Sunderland;!, upon the demise of his aunt
Henrietta, eldest daughter Duke of Marlborough, succeeded to the
honours his illustrious grandfather Althorp of John is today the
seat of Earl Spencer.
I could no
longer restrain the impulse of my passion, but, breaking from my
concealment, stood before her, when she uttered a fearful shriek,
and fainted in the arms of her companion. I flew towards the treasure
of my soul, clasped her in my embrace, and with the warmth of my
kisses, brought her again to life. Oh that I were endowed with the
expression of a Raphael, the graces of a Guido, the magic touches
of a Titian, that I might represent the fond concern, the chastened
rapture and ingenuous blush, that mingled on her beauteous face,
when she opened her eyes upon me, and pronounced, "O heavens! is
it you?" I am afraid I have already encroached upon the reader's
patience with the particulars of this amour, of which (I own) I
cannot help being impertinently circumstantial. wood alone Why d'ye
stay? T.-These tears, kill alas! you see flow For my mate! P.-Dread
you not from net interview or, bow His sad fate? T.-If, ah moan;
P.-Plaintive turtle, cease your In this dreary Hence away;! if
they convinced neither, Sorrow will.When we had spent an hour (which was all she could spare
from the barbarity of her brother's vigilance) in lamenting over
our hard fate, and in repeating our reciprocal vows, Miss Williams
reminded us of the necessity there was for our immediate parting;
and, sure, lovers never parted with such sorrow and reluctance as
we. But because my words are incapable of doing.