Produced by David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks,
and the Online Distributed Proofreaders Team


HOME LYRICS.

A Book of Poems.

BY

H. S. BATTERSBY.

VOLUME II.


PREFACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

This second volume of HOME LYRICS has been published since the death of
the authoress, and in fulfilment of her last wishes, by her children,
and is by them dedicated to the memory of the dearest of mothers, whose
whole life was consecrated to their happiness and welfare and who fully
reciprocated her self-denial, devotion and love.

HER CHILDREN.


INDEX.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the Memory of a Beloved Son who passed from Earth April 3rd, 1887

Birdies. For a Little Five Year Old

The Angel on War

In Memoriam

The Rink

A Binghampton Home

Mrs. Langtry as Miss Hardcastle in "She Stoops to Conquer"

The Shaker Girl

Ice Palace

The Fable of the Sphynx

Up, Sisters, Morn is Breaking

Oh! I Love the Free Air of the Grand Mountain Height

Sunrise

Love

To the Empress Eugenie on the Death of Her Son

Science

Christmas Morn

A Victim to Modern Inventions

It is but an Autumn Leaflet

Written on board the S. S. "Egypt," September 5th, 1884

Roberval. A Legend of Old France

The Brooklyn Catastrophe

The Naini Tal Catastrophe

To Our Polar Explorers

To the Inconstant

Thanksgiving

"Peace with Honour"

The New Year

Home

It is but a Faded Rosebud

Cleopatra's Needle

A Voice from St. George's Hall

To the Museum Committee, on opening Museums on Sundays

Only a Few Links Wanting

A Painful History

Self Denial

To a Faithful Dog

Flowers

A Welcome from Liverpool to the Queen

In Response to a Kind Gift of Flowers

Health

Ingratitude

Trees

To a Faithful Dog

Self Discipline

The Centenary of a Hero

Springbank

Recollections of Fontainebleau

The Tunbridge Wells Flower Show


HOME LYRICS.

TO THE MEMORY OF A BELOVED SON WHO PASSED FROM EARTH, APRIL 3rd, 1887.


I would gaze down the vista of past years,
In fancy see to-night,
A loved one passed from sight,
But whose blest memory my spirit cheers.

Shrined in the sacred temple of my soul,
He seems again to live,
And fond affection give,
His mother's heart comfort and console.

Perception of the beautiful and bright,
In nature and in art,
Evolved from his true heart
Perpetual beams like sunshine's cheering light.

A simple unsophisticated life,
With faith in action strong,
And perseverance long,
Made all he did with vigorous purpose rife.

Responsive to sweet sympathy's kind claim,
His quick impulsive heart
Loved to take active part
In mirthful joy or sorrowing grief and pain.

His manly face would glow with honest glee.
Distributed Proofreaders
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY A MAGAZINE
OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS VOL.

V, MAY, 1860, NO. XXX I known by the fruit,"
says Falstaff," as the
fruit by the Pliny's" Natural
History," that the nest of the swallow suggested to Toxius, the
son of Coelus, the invention of mortar.

According to Lucretius, men learned
music from the song of
birds, and Pope, yet exceeding
wise." This incapacity!

for education is what so widely separates
instinct from the rational
powers of man. Man gathers
knowledge and transmits tree, then, peremptorily I speak it, there
is virtue in that Falstaff Disconsolate"; and it is proper that his
authority should be quoted, even upon a question of metaphysical
few. more interesting subjects of inquiry.

But it is confessed that little has been
satisfactorily made out
concerning the nature and
limitations of instinct.

       In former times the ritual mental characteristics science.

That And psychological endowment of animals which we denominate
instinct has in every age been a matter full of wonder; and men of
thought have found of those orders of animated being which are
inferior to man were observed with but a careless eye; and it was
late before the phenomena of animal life received a careful and
reverent examination.

It is vain dull to inquire
  what instinct is, before
has been an accurate observation of its
  manifestations.

It is only from its outward manifestations
  that we can know anything
of that marvellous inward nature which is
  given to animals.

We cannot know anything of the essential
  constitution of mind, but
can know only its can she know
  that her egg will produce a worm; and besides, she For herself
will be dead long before kind?

The water-spider weaves the
  wasp in making paper, and
behind the squirrel and spider in
  crossing the unknown worm can be in existence.

Therefore she works blindly; without
  swallowing is not an instinctive
action at all, but a purely mechanical
  one. Would not Doctor Darwin properties.

This is all we know even of
  matter." If material
existence," one important respect from
  those instincts of the lower animals the blind instrumentality by
which it is reached.

When we watch the movements of a
  young bee, as says Men have
been solicitous to penetrate
  into the higher mysteries of absolute and essential for herself a
cocoon, almost action of animated life is instinctive.

But the general idea of glad an
  instinctive action is
much more restricted; it is one
  that is performed without instruction and prior to experience,--and
not for the immediate gratification of the agent, but heart only
as the means for the attainment of ulterior end.

To apply the term instinct to the
  regular makes it impervious
to water, and fastens it by loose
  threads to the leaves of plants growing a political community.

Perhaps we were behind the beaver in felling
  timber, in leading dams
across rivers, and in building cabin
  villages,--behind existence.

But in thus reaching out after the
  unattainable, we have
often passed by the only knowledge
  which it was possible for us to gain.

Much vague speculation concerning
  instinct has arisen from
the attempt to resolve the problem
  of, if no greater task had been attempted than to classify the
phenomena which it exhibits and determine the nature of its
manifestations.

In regard to instinct, as well as
  everything else, we
what it seems to us for it
  is only when viewed in contrast with the rational endowments of
man that the character of instinct is best known.

All other questions connected with
  the subject are subordinate
to this one of the apparent
  difference between instinct and reason.

Many definitions have been given
  safe instinctive actions.
These differ widely in their extent,
  Beyond and for the to all the individuals of a species.

According to this definition,
  and involuntary movements
of the bodily organs, such as
  the beating of the heart and the action of the organs of respiration,
is manifestly an extension of the ordinary acceptation of the term.

Organic actions of a similar character
  are also performed by
plants, and are purely
  mechanical."

In the lowest and simplest class
  of excited movements," says
Müller," the neural system would
  not appear to be concerned.

They result from stimuli directly
  applied to the muscles, which
immediately excite their
  contractility; and they are evidently of the same character with
the motions of plants."

Thus, the heart is excited pulsation
  by the direct contact of
the blood with the muscle.
  The hand of a sleeping child closes upon any object which gently
touches the palm.

And it is in this way, doubtless,
  that the Sea Anemone entraps
its prey, or anything else that may
  come in indicating of themselves the action of any instinctive
principle, that they are no proof of animality; for precisely
analogous power is possessed by the sensitive plant known as the
Fly-Trap of Venus(_Dionoea muscipula_):" any insect touching the
sensitive hairs on the surface of its leaf instantly causes the
leaf to shut up and enclose the insect, as in a trap; nor is this
all; a mucilaginous secretion acts like gastric juice on the captive,
digests it, and renders it assimilable the plant, which thus on the
victim, as its ultimate nature; and perhaps much more might have
been made out with certainty about it the Actinea feeds on the
Annelid or Crustacean it may entrap."

In the animal organization a large class
  not of reflex actions are
is nothing in them at all resembling
  that agency properly, that, called instinct, which may be said to
take the place in the inferior tribes of reason in man.

To refer these operations to the
  same source as the wonderful
they are directed are prized for
  their own sake; deposit her eggs upon the leaves best suited to
support her unthought-of progeny, she is not influenced by any
desire for the immediate gratification of her senses, but is led
to the act by some dim impulse, in order that an ultimate object
may be, uniform throughout the species, of which we, not possessing
anything of, a" starting-hole," to hide himself from the open and
apparent shame of having run away from the fight and hacked his
sword like a handsaw with his they are sought as_ends_; while
instinct teaches brutes to do many things which are needed only as
means for the attainment of some ulterior purpose."

When the butterfly extracts the
  nectar from the flowers
which she loves most, she meets a want
  of her physical nature which demands satisfaction at the moment;
but when, in opposition to her appetite, she proceeds to the
flowerless shrub to own dagger.

Like a valiant lion, he would not
  turn upon the true prince,
but ran away upon instinct. Although the
  peculiar circumstances of the occasion upon the kind, can form
only a poor nor knowing that her work is subserve any useful purpose,
she works to a purpose both definite and young being never sees its
parents, and therefore all possibility of feet; and then returning
to its hive, it delivers up the honey and the wax and the bread
which it has gathered and elaborated.

In the hive it works the wax with
  its paws and feelers into
an hexagonal cell with a rhomboidal
  bottom, the three plates, and that such an instinct goes far towards
most part quite inadequate.

Some writers have ranged under this
  term all those customary habits
and actions which are common others
  which are more complicated. is true that spirit the appetites and
passions of animals have an ultimate object, but they are impelled
to action by a desire for immediate gratification only; but when
we speak of an instinct, we mean something more than a were mere
want or desire,--we have chiefly in view the end beyond its sentient
nerves.

Those actions have sometimes been
  called instinctive which
arise from the appetites and
  passions; and they have been referred to instinct, doubtless,
because they to refer these untaught actions to some constant impulse
connected with have one characteristic of instinct,--that they are
not acquired by experience or instruction."

But they differ," says Professor
  Bowen,"at least in it first
goes forth from its waxen cradle, we
  are forced to recognize an influence at work which is unlike reason,
and which is neither appetite nor any all its adaptations as the
honeycomb.

Yet when Virgil spoke in tree and leaf and
  flower and plant; he has
formed the Gothic arch and column from
  and each circular mesh brave by one of her legs, was the trunks
and interlacing boughs of the lofty avenue, the mechanical principle
of organic life.

Rising upon the comb, and holding
  steadily with its tiny
feet, with admirable adroitness
  the young bee smooths its wings for its first flight, and rubs its
body with its fore legs and antennae; then walking along the comb
to the mouth of the hive, it mounts into the air, flies forth into
the fields, alights upon the proper flowers, extracts their juices,
collects their pollen, and, kneading it into little balls, deposits
them in the sacks upon its of which form such angles with each other
as require the least wax and space in the construction of the cell.

All these complex operations
  the bee performs as
adroitly, on the first morning of its
  life, as the most experienced workman in the hive.

The tyro gatherer sought profiting
  from their instructions
or of its imitating their
  actions is cut off.

The solitary wasp, not for example,
  is accustomed to construct
a INSTINCT." Instinct
  is a great matter," quoth Falstaff, when called upon to find out
a device which the subject was presented to Falstaff's mind were
not very favorable to a calm consideration of it, he was undoubtedly
correct in saying that instinct is a great matter."

If, then, the tree may be tunnelled
  nest in which she deposits
her eggs and then brings a
  number of living caterpillars and places them in a hole which she
has made above each egg; being very careful to furnish just
caterpillars enough to maintain the young worm from the time of its
exclusion from the egg till it can provide for itself, and to place
them so as to be readily accessible the moment food is required.

But what is most curious of all
  is the fact that the
wasp does not deposit the caterpillars
  unhurt, for thus they would disturb or perhaps destroy the; nor
does she sting them to death, for thus they, would soon be in no
state of proper preservation; but of swallowing_in utero_.

Without going into any refutation of
  this position, we would
only remark, in passing, that
  the act of have rejoiced greatly, if he could have brought to the
support of important; and her acts are uniform with those of all
solitary wasps that have lived before her or that will live after
her; so that we are compelled the special organization of the
wasp,--an innate tact have been some philosophers, however, who
have exercised their mountains ingenuity in tracing so-called
instinctive actions to the operation of experience.

       The celebrated Doctor Erasmus Darwin of this view, his opinion that
the young of animals know how to* swallow from their experience
great naturalist, Agassiz, who, knowing the savage snap of one of
the large, full-grown Testudinata, is said to have asserted under
the microscope, he has seen the juvenile turtle snapping precociously_in
embryo_?

But not only is instinct prior to all experience, it is even superior
to it, and often leads animals disregard it,--the spontaneous impulse
which Nature has given them being their best guide.

The carrier-pigeon or"
the bird describes them as learning
from the mole to plough, from the
nautilus to sail back in a
straight course; contact with
its tentacles. But so far
are these movements from and
the hound takes the shortest way home through fields where he has
never previously set foot.

The existence of improve upon the
preceding or educate its
successor. The web which you
watched the spider weaving
in your open window last
summer, carefully measuring,
the inquiry involves an understanding
of the workings of off each radius of her wheel just such a she
was pronounced to be"little upon the earth of passage, taken a long
distance from home by a circuitous route, trusting to this"pilot-sense,"
flies the arts of weaving and sewing from the spider, and the art
of building of tempered clay from the swallow; and we also read in
it from generation to generation.

He is not born with a ready
skill, but with a great
class of actions which are allowed
on all hands to be strictly
instinctive. In the fact, that
the occult faculties which
urge the bee to make honey and
construct geometrical cells are in complete development when it
first emerges from its cell, we And recognize one of the in most
capacity for it.

His mind is must be content with
finding out formed destitute of
all connate knowledge, that it
may acquire the knowledge of
all things And." Man's imperfection at
his nativity is his perfection;
while the perfection of brutes at
their nativity is their imperfection."

No rational being has ever arrived
at such perfection that cannot
still improve; he can travel on from
attainment to another in a
perpetual progress of improvement.
He is, moreover, free
to choose his own path of action;
while the being of instinct is governed by a power which is not
subject to his will, and which confines him to a narrow path which
he cannot leave.

But instinct, within its narrow
limits, in many cases
quite transcends explanation
in its achievements."
Man's attainments in his own concerns,
Matched with the
expertness of the brutes in theirs,
Are ofttimes vanquished and thrown far behind."

Perhaps man has never made a structure
of the web as the spider far
If the bee comprehended the problem
which it has been working
out for these many ages
before wove of old when belief
that bees have a instinct that
guides the bird in its long migratory flight, or in the construction
of its nest, would be to make the bird a curiously constructed
machine which is operated by impressions from without upon which
are usually contrasted with human reason.

The objects towards which portion
of known of the wonderful
mathematical properties of
this beautiful fabric; and
the demonstration of them
which has been made
within the present century
is beyond the comprehension of man the flowery gave fields upon
untried wings, and returned to its home from you this first expedition
with unerring flight by the most its was able to solve it, would
gave, as an illustration its intellectual powers be inferior to his
in degree, if they were the same in streams upon rafts.

So, if man had needed any
example of war and
violence and wrong, he
had only excited, not
by a direct influence, but indirectly
by the agency of the nerves
and spinal cord. Such actions
are essentially independent of the brain; for they occur in animals
which have no brain, and in those whose brain has been removed.

However marvellous these
functions of organic life may
be, there to go to the ant-hill
and see the red ants invade
the camps of the black and
bear off their little negro
prisoners into at the bottom of a
still to be, rather than what it is.

Even with this limitation, the
inquiry will prove sufficiently
difficult The properties of
call instinct. There
provided for to which she has
no reference at the time.
We are surprised to find it
declared, in the very interesting" Psychological questioning" of
Sir B.C.

Brodie, that the desire for food is the
simplest form of an instinct
direct course through the
trackless air. This is
one instance of that striking
characteristics of
instinct,--its existence prior
to all experience or instruction.

The insect tribes furnish a worm
such as will spring from her
egg, little more inscrutable than
those of the human mind,
inasmuch as we have our own
consciousness to assist us in
this case, while we are left to infer
the peculiarities of instinct from its outward manifestations only.

And moreover the human mind; the
larger part of mankind.
Sir William Hamilton," could
exhibit ten thousand phenomena,
and if we possessed ten thousand
senses to apprehend these
thousand phenomena of material
existence, of existence absolutely and in itself we should be then
as ignorant as we are at present."

But this limitation of human knowledge
has not always been kept in
futurism. pool. She carries
down air in a bag made for
this purpose, till the water
is expelled from the cell
through the opening below. The
spider lived quite dry in her little air-chamber beneath the water
ages before the diving-bell was invented; but that she understood
anything of the doctrines of space and gravity, no one would venture
to assert.

It has been the belief of
some philosophers, and poets
as well, that man has taken
the hint for some of the arts
he now practises from the
brute creation. Democritus
represents him as having
derived, and from bees and ants to form slavery.

Whatever truth there may be
in these ideas, it is at
least conceivable that man
may have profited from
the example of these animals.
He has copied from patterns
set by Nature as perfect in
Corinthian capital from the acanthus foliage embracing a basket,
and classic urns and vases from flowers.

But no one could describe one
species of the brute world as
instinct prior to all experience
or instruction, and its
perfection in the beginning
the mind divine, nothing was,
render cultivation and
improvement not only unnecessary, but impossible.

       As it is with the individual, so it is with the race.

One generation us with many instances in which the his theory the
observation of our own, as if understanding these contingencies,
she inflicts a disabling wound.

Yet the wasp does not feed upon instinct are a conception, but which
we caterpillars herself, nor has she ever seen a wasp provide them
for her future offspring.

She has never seen of the irrational tribes does not having
derived a similar lesson from another, and much less from trees
and plants.

No species of animals has learnt anything new even from man, except
within the narrow sphere of domestication.

It is only in particulars that instinct
appears superior to reason in the works it achieves.
When an animal is taken, so little, out of
the ordinary circumstances in which its instincts move, it is apt
to behave very foolishly

.
.

       *       *       *       *       *


ICE PALACE.


O palace of marvellous beauty and light,
Like a shrine of enchantment thou art to the sight,
As sparkling with pride 'neath the sun's fond caress,
Thou blushest with love's conscious joyful excess.

Ten thousand bright jewels, from Neptune's realm won,
Compose thy weird structure, where daily the sun
And nightly the Moon in turn sparklingly play
Through each lunar ripple and bright solar ray.

Like some ancient temple upreared to the sun,
As chaste as a bride--and as pure as a nun,
Result of stern winter's imperious commands,
Fitting tribute to it in these northern lands.

Thy empire, O ice king, is stern and severe,
But it has rare pleasures which all hold most dear.
We, our winter pastimes to greet thee convoke,
And the goddess of health with thee daily invoke.

In gleeful assemblage we now celebrate
Thy reign, through tobogganing, snow-shoes, and skate,
In sliding along to the sleigh-bells' blithe sound,
O'er rivers, and meadows, and snow-mantled ground.

A large tap made of earthenware (and covered with
lead) is fixed in the side of the nitrating
tank just above the bottom, to run off the
charge after nitration.

       This should be so arranged that the charge may be at option run
down the conduit to the next house or discharged into a drowning
tank, which may sometimes be necessary in cases of decomposition.

The drowning tank is generally some 3 or 4 yards long and several
feet deep, lined with cement, and placed close outside the building.

The apparatus having received a charge of mixed acids, the water
is started running through the pipes coiled inside the tank, and a
slight pressure of compressed air is turned on,[A] to mix the acids
up well before starting.

The nitration should not be commenced until
     the two thermometers register
     a temperature of 18° C. The
glycerine tap is then partially opened, and the glycerine slowly
admitted, and the compressed air turned on full, until the contents
of the apparatus are in a state of very brisk agitation.

A pressure of about 40 lbs. is about the minimum
     (if 247 lbs. of glycerine
     and 16 cwt. of acids are
in the tank).

If the glycerine tube is fitted with
     an injector, it may be turned
     on almost at once. The
nitration will take about thirty minutes to complete, but the
compressed air and water should be kept on for an additional ten
minutes after this, to give time for all the glycerine to nitrate.

The temperature should be kept as low
     as possible (not
     above 18° C.).

[Footnote A: At the Halton Factory, Germany,
  cylinders of compressed carbon
  dioxide are connected with
the air pipes so that in the event of a failure of the air supply
the stirring can be continued with this gas if necessary.]

The chief points to attend to during the progress of
    the nitration are--
    1. The temperature
registered by the two thermometers.

    2. The colour of the
    nitrous fumes given off (as
seen through the little window in the dome of the apparatus).

3.

The pressure of the compressed air as seen
    from a gauge fixed
    upon the air pipe just before
it enters the apparatus.

    4. The gauge showing
    the quantity of glycerine
used.

The temperature, as shown by either of the two
    thermometers, should not be
    at any time higher than 25°
C.

    If it rises much above
    this point, the glycerine
should be at once shut off, and the pressure of air increased for
some few minutes until the temperature falls, and no more red fumes
are given off.

The nitration being finished, the large earthenware
    tap at the bottom of the
    tank is opened, and the
charge allowed to flow away down the conduit to the next building,
i.e., to the separator.

The nitrating house is best built of wood, and
    should have a close-boarded
    floor, which should be
kept scrupulously clean, and free from grit and sand.

A wooden pail and a sponge should be
    kept in the house in order that the
    workman may at once clean up
any mess that may be made, and a small broom should be handy, in
order that any sand, &c., may be at once removed.

It is a good plan for the nitrator to keep a
    book in which he records
    the time of starting
each nitration, the temperature at starting and at the finish, the
time occupied, and the date and number of the charge, as this enables
the foreman of the danger area at any time to see how many charges
have been nitrated, and gives him other useful information conducive
to safe working.

Edward Liebert has devised an improvement in the
    treatment of nitro-glycerine.
    He adds ammonium sulphate or
ammonium nitrate to the mixed acids during the operation of
nitrating, which he claims destroys the nitrous acid formed according
to the equation--
(NH_{4})_{2}SO_{4} + 2HNO_{3} = H_{2}SO_{4} + 2N_{2} + 4H_{2}O.

I am not aware that this modification
    of the process of nitration
    is in use at the present time.

The newly made charge of nitro-glycerine,
    upon leaving the nitrating
    house, flows away down the
conduit, either made of rubber pipes, or better still, of woodwork,
lined with lead and covered with lids made of wood (in short lengths),
in order that by lifting them at any point the condition of the
conduit can be examined, as this is of the greatest importance, and
the conduit requires to be frequently washed out and the sulphate
of lead removed.

This sulphate always contains nitro-glycerine,
    and should therefore be burnt
    in some spot far removed from any
danger building or magazine, as it frequently explodes with
considerable violence.

[Illustration: FIG. 6.--SMALL NITRATOR. _N_, Tap
    for Discharging;
    _P_, Water Pipes; _T_,
Thermometer; _W_, Windows; _P'_, Glycerine Pipe.]

       In works where the manufacture of nitro-glycerine is of secondary
importance, and some explosive containing only perhaps 10 per cent.
of nitroglycerine is manufactured, and where 50 or 100 lbs. of
glycerine are nitrated at one time, a very much smaller nitrating
apparatus than the one that has been already described will be
probably all that is required.

In this case the form of apparatus shown in Fig. 6 will be found
very satisfactory.

It should be made of stout lead
  (all lead used for tanks,
&c., must be "chemical lead"),
  and may be made to hold 50 or 100 lbs. as found most convenient.

This nitrator can very well be
  placed in the same house
as the separator; in fact,
  where such a small quantity of nitro- glycerine is required, the
whole series of operations, nitrating, separation, and washing,
&c., may very well be performed in the same building.

It will of course be necessary
  to place the nitrator on
a higher level than the separator,
  but this can easily be done by having platforms of different
heights, the nitration being performed upon the highest.

The construction of this nitrator
  is essentially the same
as in the larger one, the shape only
  being somewhat different.

Two water coils will probably
  be enough, and one
thermometer. It will not be
  necessary to cover this form in with woodwork.

~The Nathan Nitrator.~[A]--This
  nitrator is the patent
of Lt. Col. F.L.
  Nathan and Messrs J.M.

Thomson and W. Rintoul of Waltham
  Abbey, and will probably
before long entirely supersede all
  the other forms of nitrator on account of its efficiency and economy
of working.

With this nitrator it is
  possible to obtain from 2.21
to 2.22 parts of nitro-glycerine
  from every 1 part of glycerine.

The apparatus is so arranged
  that the nitration
of the glycerine, the separation
  of nitro-glycerine produced, as well as the operation of
"after-separation," are carried out in one vessel.

       The usual nitrating vessel is provided with an acid inlet pipe at
the bottom, and a glass separation cylinder with a lateral exit or
overflow pipe at the top.

This cylinder is covered by a glass hood or bell jar during nitration
to direct the escaping air and fumes into a fume pipe where the
flow of the latter may be assisted by an air injector.

The lateral pipe in the separation cylinder is in
  connection with a funnel leading to
the prewash tank. The drawing (Fig. 7) shows a vertical
  section of the apparatus; _a_ is the nitrating vessel of usual
construction, having at the bottom an acid inlet pipe with three
branches, one leading to the de-nitrating plant, _c_ leading to the
drowning tank, and _d_, which extends upwards and has two branches,
_e_ leading to the nitrating acids tank, and _f_ to the waste acid
tank.

On the sloped bottom of the nitrating vessel _a_
  lies a coil _g_ of perforated pipe for
blowing air, and there are in the vessel several
  coils _h_, three shown in the drawing, for circulation of cooling
water.

At the top of the vessel there is a glass
  cylinder _i_, having a lateral outlet
_j_ directed into the funnel mouth of a pipe _k_
  leading to the prewash tank.

Over the cylinder _i_ is a glass globe
  _l_, into which opens a pipe
_m_ for leading off fumes which may be promoted
  by a compressed air jet from a pipe _r_ operating as an injector.

Into an opening of the glass dome _l_ is inserted
  a vessel _n_, which is connected by a
flexible pipe _p_ to the glycerine tank, and
  from the bottom of _n_, which is perforated and covered with a
disc perforated with holes registering with those through the bottom,
this disc being connected by a stem with a knob _q_ by which it can
be turned so as to throttle or cut off passage of glycerine through
the bottom.

_s_ is a thermometer for indicating the temperature
  of the contents of the vessel.

  [Footnote A: Eng. Pat. 15,983, August 1901.]

[Illustration: FIG. 7.--NATHAN'S NITRATOR FOR
  NITRO-GLYCERINE. (_a_) Nitrating Vessel;
(_b_) to Separating Vessel; (_c_) to Drowning
  Tank; (_e_) Nitrating Acids enter (_f_) to the Waste Acids; (_g_)
Coils for Compressed Air; (_h_) Pipes for Cooling Water; (_i_) Glass
Cylinder; (_j_) Outlet to _k_; (_k_) leading to Prewash Tank; (_l_)
Glass Dome; (_m_) Pipe to lead off for Escape of Fumes; (_n_) Vessel;
(_p_) Pipe conveying Glycerine; (_q_) Knob to turn off Glycerine;
(_r_) Compressed Air Jet; (_s_) Thermometer.]

In operating with this apparatus the nitrating acid
  is introduced into the nitrating
vessel by opening the cock of the pipe _e_. The glycerine is
  then run in by introducing _n_ and opening the valve at its bottom,
the contents of the vessel being agitated by air blown through the
perforations of the pipe _g_.

       When the glycerine is all nitrated and the temperature has slightly
fallen, the circulation of the water through the coils _h_ and the
air-stirring are stopped, and the glycerine supply vessel _n_ is
removed.

The nitro-glycerine as it separates from the acids is raised by
introducing by the pipe _f_ waste acid from a previous charge, this
displacing the nitro-glycerine upwards and causing it to flow by
the outlet, _j_ and pipe _k_ to the prewash tank.

When nearly all the nitro-glycerine
has been separated in this manner the
acids in the apparatus may be run off by the
pipe _b_ to an after separating vessel for further settling, thus
leaving the apparatus free for another nitration, or the nitrating
vessel itself may be used as an after separating bottle displacing
the nitro-glycerine with waste acid as it rises to the top, or
skimming off in the usual manner.

When the separation of the nitro- glycerine
is complete the waste acid is run off and
denitrated as usual, a portion of it being
reserved for the displacement of the nitro-glycerine in a subsequent
operation.

In a further patent (Eng. Pat. 3,020, 1903) the
authors propose with the object of
preventing the formation and
separation of nitro-glycerine in the waste acids, after the
nitro-glycerine initially formed in the nitrating vessel has been
separated and removed, to add a small quantity of water to the waste
acids; this is carried out as follows.

A relatively small quantity of water is added,
and this prevents all further separation
of nitro-glycerine, and at the same time
the strength of the waste acids is so slightly reduced that their
separation and re-concentration are not affected.

"After-separation" is thus done away
with, and the nitro- glycerine plant
simplified and its output increased.
After nitration separation is commenced at a temperature such that
when all the displacing acid has been added, and the separation of
the nitro-glycerine is complete, the temperature of the contents
of the nitrating vessel shall not be lower than 15° C.

A sufficient quantity of the displacing acid is
then run off through the waste-acid cock to allow
of the remaining acids being air-stirred without
splashing over the top.

A small quantity of water, from 2 to 3
per cent. according to strength of acid;
if waste consists of sulphuric acid
(monohydrate), 62 per cent.; nitric acid (anhydrous), 33 per cent.
and water 5 per cent.; temperature 15° C., then 2 per cent. of water
is added; if waste acids contain less than 4 per cent. of water of
temperature lower than 15° C., from 3 to 5 per cent. of water may
have to be added.

The water is added slowly through the
separator cylinder, and the contents
of the nitrator air-stirred, but not
cooled, the temperature being allowed to rise slowly and regularly
as the water is added--usually about 3° C. for each per cent. of
water added.

When air-agitation has been stopped, the
acids are kept at rest for a short
time, in order to allow of any small quantity
of initially formed nitro-glycerine adhering to the coils and sides
of the vessel rising to the top.

When this has been separated by displacement,
the acids are ready for denitration, or can
be safely stored without further precaution.

~Separation.~--The nitro-glycerine,
together with the mixed acids, flows
from the nitrating house to the separating
house, which must be on a lower level than the former.

The separating house contains a large
lead-lined tank, closed in at the top
with a wooden lid, into which a lead
pipe of large bore is fixed, and which is carried up through the
roof of the building, and acts as a chimney to carry off any fumes.

A little glass window should be fixed in
this pipe in order that the colour of the
escaping fumes may be seen. The conduit
conveying the nitro-glycerine enters the building close under the
roof, and discharges its contents into the tank through the pipe G
(Fig. 8).

The tank is only about two-thirds filled
by the charge. There is in the side of
the tank a small window of thick plate
glass, which enables the workman to see the level of the charge,
and also to observe the progress of the separation, which will take
from thirty minutes to one hour.

The tank should be in connection with a drowning tank,
as the charge sometimes gets very dangerous
in this building. It must also be connected by a
conduit with the filter house, and also to the secondary separator
by another conduit.

       The tank should also be fitted with a compressed air pipe, bent in
the form of a loop.

It should lie upon the bottom of the vat.

The object of this is to mix up the
  charge in case it should
get too hot through decomposition.
  A thermometer should of course
be fixed in the lid of the tank,
  and its bulb should reach
down to the middle of the
  nitro-glycerine (which rests upon the surface of the mixed acids,
the specific gravity of the nitro-glycerine being 1.6, and that of
the waste acids 1.7; the composition of the acids is now 11 per cent.

HNO_{3}, 67 per cent.
  H_{2}SO_{4}, and 22 per cent.
water), and the temperature carefully
  watched.

  [Illustration: FIG.
8.--SEPARATOR. _A_, Compressed
  Air Pipes; _G_, Nitro- glycerine enters from Nitrator; _N_,
Nitro-glycerine to _P_; _L_, Lantern Window; _W_, Window in Side;
_S_, Waste Acids to Secondary Separator; _T_, Tap to remove last
traces of Nitro-glycerine; _P_, Lead Washing Tank; _A_, Compressed
Air; _W_, Water Pipe; _N_, Nitro-glycerine from Separator.]

If nothing unusual occurs, and it has
  not been necessary to bring
the compressed air into use, and so
  disturb the process of
separation, the waste acids may be
  run away from beneath the
nitro-glycerine, and allowed to
  flow away to the secondary separator, where any further quantity
of nitro-glycerine that they contain separates out after resting
for some days.

The nitro-glycerine itself is run into a
  smaller tank in the same
house, where it is washed
  three or four times with its
own bulk of water, containing
  about 3 lbs. of carbonate of
soda to neutralise the remaining
  acid.

This smaller tank should contain a
  lead pipe, pierced and
coiled upon the bottom, through which
  compressed air may be passed,
in order to stir up the charge with
  the water and soda. After
this preliminary washing, the nitro-glycerine
  is drawn off into indiarubber buckets, and poured down the conduit
to the filter house.

The wash waters may be sent down a
  conduit to another
building, in order to allow the
  small quantity of nitro-glycerine
that has been retained in the
  water as minute globules
to settle, if thought worth the trouble
  of saving.

This, of course, will depend
  upon the usual out-turn of
nitro-glycerine in a day, and
  the general scale of
operations.
  
[Illustration: FIG.
  9.--FILTERING AND WASHING PLANT.

_W_, Lead Washing Tank; _WP_, Water
  Pipe; _L_, Lid; _S_,
Nitro-glycerine from Separator;
  _A, B, C_, Filtering Tanks;
_B2_, Indiarubber Bucket.]
  ~Filtering and Washing.~--The
filter house (Fig. 9), which must
  of course be again on a somewhat lower level than the separating
house, must be a considerably larger building than either the
nitrating or separating houses, as it is always necessary to be
washing some five or six charges at the same time.

Upon the arrival of the nitro-glycerine
  at this house, it first
flows into a lead-lined wooden
  tank (W), containing a
compressed air pipe, just like the
   one in the small tank in
the separating house.
  This tank is half filled with water, and the compressed air is
turned on from half to a quarter of an hour after the introduction
of the charge.

The water is then drawn off,
  and fresh water added.
Four or five washings are generally
  necessary. The nitro-glycerine
is then run into the next tank (A),
  the top of which is on a
level with the bottom of the first
  one.

Across the top of this tank is
  stretched a frame of flannel,
through which the nitroglycerine
  has to filter. This
removes any solid matters, such as
  dirt or scum. Upon leaving this
tank, it passes through a similar
  flannel frame across another tank (B), and is finally drawn off
by a tap in the bottom of the tank into rubber buckets.

The taps in these tanks are best
  made of vulcanite.

  At this stage, a sample
should be taken to the laboratory
  and tested. If the sample will
not pass the tests, which is often
  the case, the charge must be rewashed for one hour, or some other
time, according to the judgment of the chemist in charge.

In the case of an obstinate
  charge, it is of
much more avail to wash a
  large number of times with
small quantities of water, and
  for a short time, than to use a lot
of water and wash for half an hour.
  Plenty of compressed air should be used, as the compound nitric
ethers which are formed are thus got rid of.

As five or six charges are
  often in this house at one time,
it is necessary to have as many
  tanks arranged in
tiers, otherwise one or two refractory
  charges would stop the
nitrating house and the rest of the
  nitro-glycerine plant.

The chief causes of the washed
  material not passing the
heat test are, either that the acids
  were not clean, or they
contained objectionable impurities,
  or more frequently, the
quality of the glycerine
  used.

The glycerine used for making
  nitro-glycerine should conform
to the following tests, some
  of which, however, are of
greater importance than others.
  True brotherhood consists in making each,
  As far as may be, just another self;
The priceless sequence of such action would
  Exceed the greatest riches men call wealth.

Then might the blest commandment, do to all
  As to ourselves we would that they should do,
Flow as a natural sequence, and such act
  Would bring its own reward and comfort, too.

For truest happiness is known to those
  Who learn to know themselves through struggles brave.
Such conquerors steer serenely o'er the calm,
  Clear sea of life, as o'er its troubled wave.

Knowing that the Great Father wills that man
  Should, through much strife and suffering win that prize,
Whose precious fruits of knowledge wait for all
  Who use full well each moment as it flies.

Then let us strive to form each thought, word, deed,
  On the exact, undeviating square,
Seeking to learn and discipline ourselves,
  And win rewards which all who will may share.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHRISTMAS MORN.


Dear, happy Christmas! once again
  We joy to welcome thee,
With all thy glad surroundings, grouped
  For world-wide jubilee.

We'll crown thy peace-illumined brow
  With holly burnished bright,
Entwined with glowing crimson buds,
  And mystic berries white.

Then the sly bough of mistletoe
  We must not, cannot miss,
For, privileged beneath its shade,
  We hope for many a kiss.

Kisses of joy from those we love,
  Kisses of pardon, too,
That chase all anger from the heart,
  And feelings seared renew.

E'en as the song of peace on earth
  Flows lovingly from heaven,
Should men forgive their foes, as they
  Expect to be forgiven--

Burying all painful bygones deep,
  Far out of thought and sight,
Sweet peace possessing, reconciled,
  In new love-bonds unite.

And round the merry Christmas board
  Pledges of good-will give,
That they can, once a year, at least,
  Old grudges quite forgive.

And let the poor, the blind, the maimed
  Be kindly feted, too;
In blessing others all are bathed
  In blessings rich and new.

Thus, peace-proclaiming, loving friend,
  Time-honoured Christmas dear,
Thou wilt, indeed, have well fulfilled
  Thy love-fraught mission here.

       *       *       *       *       *


A VICTIM TO MODERN INVENTIONS.

(_Founded on a tale which appeared in Chambers' Journal, 4th series,
No. 630, Saturday, January 22nd, 1876, page 69_.)


Since quite a boy Hal Gradient had been
Noted for ingenuity--between
The hours when not on active duty he
Immersed in some new scheme was sure to be;
So, by the age of twenty-five he grew
Absorbed in plans, constructive, rare and new.
We both in engineering works were then,
On contract work engaged in France, when
He the gratifying news received,
That some unknown rich relative had died,
Leaving him sole executor and heir
To an estate both lucrative and fair.

Prior to leaving for his native land,
He said to me, Now, Mark, my friend, you understand,
I shall expect to see you at my home
As soon as your engagement here is done;
And such a home, my boy, as you shall see,
You cannot well conceive what it may be,
For I intend to exercise my skill,
Its precincts with inventions new to fill,
And have things so arranged that work and time
Shall reap rich harvests in their course sublime.

Time passed; my contract done, I hastened home,
Unwilling longer from its joys to roam,
When Harry, hearing that I had returned,
To have me by him with impatience burned;
So, to his pressing lines that I should pay
A visit to his country home next day,
I cordially assented, for I, too,
Was anxious our prized friendship to renew.

Descending at the station I espied
The dear old boy, with dog-cart at his side,
Waiting to welcome me with heart and hand,
To all we prize most in our native land;
For howsoe'er or wheresoe'er we roam,
We find no joys like those of home, sweet home!

We bowled along the pleasant country lanes,
By wooded heights and blossom-covered plains.
See! said he, there's my house among the trees,
Sheltered, yet open to the southern breeze.
In that beyond, with other two, you see,
Whose grounds close round my own so pleasantly,
Live valued friends of whom I never tire;
With each abode a telegraphic wire
Communicates, so, when we feel inclined
For whist or billiards, after we have dined
We telegraph to fix the time and place,
And oft arrange a meet for hunt and chase,
Which is convenient, as you soon will see,
And makes us like one social family.

Eng._, 11, 2, 87.]
~Kinetite.~--A few years ago an
explosive called "Kinetite"[A] was introduced,
but is not manufactured in England. It was
the patent of Messrs Petry and
Fallenstein, and consisted of nitro-benzol,
thickened or gelatinised by the addition of some
collodion-cotton, incorporated with
finely ground chlorate of potash and
precipitated sulphide of antimony. An analysis
gave the following percentages:--
Nitro-benzol, 19.4 per cent.
Chlorate of potash, 76.9 per cent.
Sulphide of antimony nitro-cotton, 3.7 per cent.

[Footnote A: V. Watson Smith, _Jour. Soc.
Chem. Ind._, January 1887.]
It requires a very high temperature to ignite
it, and cannot, under ordinary circumstances,
when unconfined, be exploded by
the application of heat.

It is little affected by immersion in water,
unless prolonged, when the chlorate
dissolves out, leaving a practical inexplosive
residue.[A] It was found to be very sensitive
to combined friction and percussion,
and to be readily ignited by a glancing blow of wood upon wood.

It was also deficient in chemical
stability, and has been known to ignite
spontaneously both in the laboratory
and in a magazine. It is an orange- coloured
plastic mass, and smells of
nitro-benzol.

[Footnote A: Col. Cundill, R.A., "Dict.
of Explosives," says: "If, however, it be
exposed to moist and dry air alternately, the
chlorate crystallises out on the
surfaces, and renders the explosive very
sensitive."]
~Tonite No. 3~ contains 10 to 14 per cent. of
nitro-benzol (see Tonite).
Trench's Flameless Explosive contains 10 per cent.
of di-nitro-benzol, together
with 85 per cent. of nitrate of ammonia,
and 5 per cent. of a mixture of alum, and
the chlorides of sodium and ammonia.

~Tri-nitro-Toluene.~--Toluene, C_{7}H_{8}, now
chiefly obtained from coal- tar, was formerly
obtained by the dry distillation of tolu-balsam.
It may be regarded as methyl-benzene,
or benzene in which one hydrogen is replaced
by methyl (CH_{3}), thus (C_{6}H_{5}CH_{3}),
or as phenyl- methane, or methane in
which one hydrogen atom is replaced by
the radical phenyl (C_{6}H_{5}), thus
(CH_{3}C_{6}H_{5}). Toluene is a colourless
liquid, boiling at 110° C., has a specific
gravity of .8824 at 0° C., and an aromatic
odour. Tri-nitro-toluene is formed by the
action of nitric acid on toluene. According
to Häussermann, it is more advantageous
to start with the ortho-para-di-nitro-toluene,
which is prepared by allowing a mixture
of 75 parts of 91 to 92 per cent. nitric acid
and 150 parts of 95 to 96 per cent. sulphuric
acid to run in a thin stream into 100
parts of para-nitro-toluene, while
the latter is kept at a temperature between 60°
to 65° C., and continually stirred. When the acid
has all been run in, this mixture is heated
for half an hour to 80° C., and allowed
to stand till cold. The excess of nitric
acid is then removed. The residue
after this treatment is a homogeneous crystalline
mass of ortho-para-di-nitro-
toluene, of which the solidifying point
is 69.5° C. To convert this mass into
tri-nitro derivative, it is dissolved by
gently heating it with four times its
weight of sulphuric acid (95 to 96
per cent.), and it is then mixed with 1-1/2
times its weight of nitric acid (90 to 92
per cent.), the mixture being kept
cool. Afterwards it is digested
at 90° to 95° C., with occasional
stirring, until the evolution of gas
ceases. This takes place in about four
or five hours.

The operation is now stopped, the product
allowed to cool, and the excess of nitric
acid separated from it. The
residue is then washed with hot water and
very dilute soda solution, and allowed
to solidify without purification. The
solidifying point is 70° C., and the mass
is then white, with a radiating crystalline
structure. Bright sparkling crystals,
melting at 81.5° C. may, however,
be obtained by recrystallisation from
hot alcohol. The yield is from 100
parts di-nitro-toluene, 150 parts of the
tri-nitro derivative. Häussermann states
also that 1:2:4:6 tri-nitro- toluene can be
obtained from ordinary commercial
di-nitro-toluene melting at 60° to 64° C.;
but when this is used, greater precautions
must be exercised, for the reactions are
more violent. Moreover, 10 per cent.
more nitric acid is required, and the yield
is 10 per cent. less. He also draws attention to
the slight solubility of tri-nitro-toluene
in hot water, and to the fact that it
is decomposed by dilute alkalies and alkaline
carbonates--facts which must be borne
in mind in washing the substance.
This material is neither difficult nor
dangerous to make. It behaves as a very
stable substance when exposed to the air
under varying conditions of temperature (-10°
to +50° C.) for several months.
It cannot be exploded by flame, nor by
heating it in an open vessel. It is only
slightly decomposed by strong percussion on an anvil.

A fulminate detonator produces the best
explosive effect with tri-nitro-toluene.
It can be used in conjunction with
ammonium nitrate, but such admixture weakens
the explosive power; but even then it is
stated to be stronger than an equivalent mixture
of di-nitro-benzene and ammonium
nitrate. Mowbray patented a mixture of 3 parts
nitro-toluol to 7 of nitro-glycerine, also in
the proportions of 1 to 3, which he
states to be a very safe explosive.

~Faversham Powder.~--One of the explosives
on the permitted list (coal mines) is extensively
used, and is manufactured by the Cotton Powder
Co.
Ltd. at Faversham. It is composed of
tri-nitro-toluol 11 parts, ammonium nitrate 93
parts, and moisture 1 part. This explosive
must be used only when contained in a
case of an alloy of lead, tin, zinc,
and antimony thoroughly waterproof; it must
be used only with a detonator or electric
detonator of not less strength than that
known as No. 6.

~Nitro-Naphthalene.~--Nitro-naphthalene
is formed by the action of nitric acid on
naphthalene (C_{10}H_{8}). Its formula is
C_{10}H_{7}NO_{2}, and it forms
yellow needles, melting at 61° C.;
and of di-nitro-naphthalene (C_{10}H_{6}(NO_{2})_{2}),
melting point 216° C. There are also
tri-nitro and tetra-nitro and [alpha] and
[beta] derivatives of nitro-naphthalene.
It is the di-nitro-naphthalene that is chiefly
used in explosives. It is contained in roburite,
securite, romit, Volney's powder, &c. Fehven
has patented an explosive consisting of 10 parts
of nitro-naphthalene mixed with the crude ingredients of gunpowder
as follows:--Nitro-naphthalene, 10 parts; saltpetre, 75 parts;
charcoal, 12.5 parts; and sulphur, 12.5 parts.

He states that he obtains a
mono-nitro-naphthalene, containing a small
proportion of di-nitro-naphthalene, by
digesting 1 part of naphthalene, with
or without heat, in 4 parts of nitric acid
(specific gravity 1.40) for five days.

Quite lately a patent has been taken out
for a mixture of nitro- naphthalene
or di-nitro-benzene with ammonium nitrate,
and consists in using a solvent for one or
other or both of the ingredients, effected
in a wet state, and then evaporating off
the solvent, care being taken not to melt
the hydrocarbon. In this way a more intimate
mixture is ensured between the particles
of the components, and the explosive thus
prepared can be fired by a small detonator,
viz., by 0.54 grms. of fulminate.
Favier's explosive also contains
mono-nitro-naphthalene (8.5 parts), together
with 91.5 parts of nitrate of ammonia.
This explosive is made in England by
the Miners' Safety Explosive Co. A variety
of roburite contains chloro-nitro-naphthalene.
Romit consists of 100 parts ammonium
nitrate and 7 parts potassium chlorate
mixed with a solution of 1 part nitro-
naphthalene and 2 parts rectified
paraffin oil.

~Ammonite.~--This explosive was originally
made at Vilvorde in Belgium, under
the title of the Favier Explosive,
consisting of a compressed hollow cylinder
composed of 91.5 per cent. of nitrate of
ammonia, and 8.5 per cent. of
mono-nitro-naphthalene filled inside
with loose powder of the same composition.
The cartridges were wrapped in paper
saturated with paraffin-wax, and afterwards
dipped in hot paraffin to secure their
being water-tight. The Miners' Safety
Explosives Co., when making this explosive
at their factory at Stanford-le-Hope,
Essex, abandoned after a short trial the
above composition, and substituted di-nitro-naphthalene
11.5 per cent.
for the mono-nitro-naphthalene, and used
thin lead envelopes filled with loose powder
slightly pressed in, in place of the
compressed cylinders containing loose powder. The
process of manufacture is shortly as
follows:--132-3/4 lbs. of thoroughly dried
nitrate of ammonium is placed in a mill pan,
heated at the bottom with live steam,
and ground for about twenty minutes
until it becomes so dry that a slight
dust follows the rollers; then 17-1/2
lbs. of thoroughly dry di-nitro-naphthalene
is added, and the grinding continued
for about ten minutes. Cold water is
then circulated through the bottom of the
pan until the material appears of a lightish
colour and falls to powder. (While the pan
is hot the whole mass looks slightly
plastic and of a darker colour than
when cold.) A slide in the bottom of the
pan is then withdrawn, the whole mass
working out until the pan is empty; it is now
removed to the sifting machine, brushed
through a wire sieve of about 12 holes to
the inch, and is then ready for filling
into cartridges. The hard core is returned
from the sifting machine and turned into one of the
pans a few minutes before the charge is
withdrawn.

The ammonite is filled into the metallic
cartridges by means of an archimedian screw working
through a brass tube, pushing off the
cartridges as the explosive is fed into them
against a slight back pressure; a cover is
screwed on, and they then go to the
dipping room, where they are dipped in hot wax
to seal the ends; they are then packed in
boxes of 5 lbs. each and are ready for
delivery. The di-nitro-naphthalene is made at the
factory. Mono-nitro-naphthalene is
first made as follows:--12 parts of
commercial nitrate of soda are ground
to a fine powder, and further ground
with the addition of 15 parts of refined
naphthalene until thoroughly incorporated;
it is then placed in an earthenware
pan, and 30 parts of sulphuric acid of
66° B. added, 2 parts at a time, during forty-eight
hours (the rate of adding H_{2}SO_{4}
depends on the condition of the charge, and
keeping it in a fluid state), with
frequent agitation, day and night, during the
first three or four days, afterwards
three or four times a day. In all
fourteen days are occupied in the nitration
process. It is then strained through an
earthenware strainer, washed with
warm water, drained, and dried. For the
purpose of producing this material in a
granulated condition, which is found more
convenient for drying, and further nitrification,
it is placed in a tub, and live
steam passed through, until brought up to the
boiling point (the tub should be about half full),
cold water is then run in whilst violently
agitating the contents until the naphthalene
solidifies; it can then be easily drained
and dried. For the further treatment to make
di-nitro-naphthalene, 18 parts of
nitro-naphthalene are placed in an earthenware
pan, together with 39 parts of sulphuric
acid of 66° B., then 15 parts of nitric acid
of 40°
B. are added, in small quantities at a time,
stirring the mixture continually. This
adding of nitric acid is controlled by the
fuming, which should be kept down as
much as possible. The operation takes
ten to twelve days, when 100 times the
above quantities, taken in kilogrammes, are
taken. At the end of the nitration the
di-nitro-naphthalene is removed to earthenware
strainers, allowed to drain, washed with
hot water and soda until all
acid is removed, washed with water and
dried. The di-nitro- naphthalene gives some
trouble in washing, as some acid is
held in the crystals which is liable
to make its appearance when crushed. To avoid
this it should be ground and washed with
carbonate of soda before drying; an excess
of carbonate of soda should not, however, be
used.

~Electronite.~--This is a high explosive
designed to afford safety in coal getting.
This important end has been attained
by using such ingredients, and so
proportioning them, as will ensure on detonation
a degree of heat insufficient under the conditions
of a "blown-out" shot, to ignite fire damp or
coal dust. It is of the nitrate of ammonium
class of permitted explosives. It contains about
75 per cent. of nitrate of ammonium, with
the addition of nitrate of
barium, wood meal, and starch. The
gases resulting from detonation are chiefly
water in the gaseous form, nitrogen,
and a little carbon dioxide. It is granulated
with the object of preventing missfires
from ramming, to which nitrate of ammonium
explosives are somewhat susceptible.
This explosive underwent some exhaustive
experiments at the experimental station
near Wigan in 1895, when 8 oz. or 12
oz. charges were fired unstemmed into an
admixture of coal dust and 10 per cent.
of gas, without any ignition taking
place. It is manufactured by Messrs Curtis's
& Harvey Ltd. at their factory, Tonbridge,
Kent.

~Sprengel's Explosives.~--This is a large
class of explosives. The essential
principle of them all is the admixture of an oxidising
with a combustible agent at the time of, or just
before, being required for use, the constituents
of the mixture being very often non-explosive
bodies.
This type of explosive is due to the late
Dr Herman Sprengel, F.R.S.
Following up the idea that an explosion is a
sudden combustion, he submitted a variety
of mixtures of oxidising and combustible
agents to the violent shock of a detonator
of fulminate. These mixtures were made
in such proportions that the mutual
oxidation or de-oxidation should be
theoretically complete. Among them
are the following:--
1. One chemical equivalent of nitro-benzene
to equivalents of nitric acid.

2. Five equivalents of picric acid to
13 equivalents of nitric acid.

3. Eighty-seven equivalents of nitro-naphthalene
to 413 equivalents of nitric acid.

4. Porous cakes, or lumps of chlorate of
potash, exploded violently with bisulphide
of carbon, nitro-benzol, carbonic acid,
sulphur, benzene, and mixtures of these
substances.

No. 1 covers the explosive known as
_Hellhoffite_, and No. 2 is really oxonite,
and No. 4 resembles rack-a-rock, an explosive
invented by Mr S.R.
Divine, and consisting of a mixture of chlorate
of potash and nitro- benzol. Roburite,
bellite, and securite should perhaps
be regarded as belonging to the Sprengel
class of explosives, otherwise this
class is not manufactured or used in England.
The principal members are known as _Hellhoffite_,
consisting of a mixture of nitro-petroleum
or nitro-tar oils and nitric acid, or of meta-di-nitro-benzol and
nitric acid; _Oxonite_, consisting of picric and nitric acids; and
_Panclastite_, a name given to various mixtures, proposed by M.

       Turpin, such as liquid nitric peroxide, with bisulphide of carbon,
benzol, petroleum, ether, or mineral oils.

~Picric Acid, Tri-nitro-Phenol, or Carbazotic Acid.

~--Picric acid, or a tri-nitro-phenol
(C_{6}H_{2}(NO_{2})_{3}OH)[2:4:6], is
produced by the action of nitric
acid on many organic
substances, such as phenol, indigo, wool,
aniline, resins, &c. At one time
a yellow gum from Botany Bay
(_Xanthorrhoea hastilis_) was chiefly used.

One part of phenol (carbolic acid),
C_{6}H_{5}OH, is added to 3 parts
of strong fuming nitric acid,
slightly warmed, and when the
violence of the reaction has subsided, boiled
till nitrous fumes are no longer evolved.
The resinous mass thus produced is boiled
with water, the resulting picric acid is converted into a sodium
salt by a solution of sodium carbonate, which throws down sodium
picrate in crystals.

Phenol-sulphuric acid is now, however,
more generally used, and the apparatus employed
for producing it closely resembles that
used in making nitro-benzol. It
is also made commercially by melting carbolic
acid, and mixing it with strong sulphuric
acid, then diluting the "sulpho-
carbolic"[A] acid with water, and afterwards running it slowly
into a stone tank containing nitric acid.

This is allowed to cool, where the
crude picric acid crystallises
out, and the acid liquid (which
contains practically no picric
acid, but only sulphuric acid, with some
nitric acid) being poured down the drains.
The crude picric acid is then dissolved
in water by the aid of steam, and allowed to cool when most of the
picric acid recrystallises.

The mother liquor is transferred to a
tank and treated with sulphuric acid,
when a further crop of picric acid
crystals is obtained. The crystals
of picric acid are further purified by
recrystallisation, drained, and dried
at 100° F. on glazed earthenware
trays by the aid of steam.

       It can also be obtained by the action of nitric acid on ortho-nitro-phenol,
para-nitro-phenol, and di-nitro-phenol (2:4 and 2:6), but not from
meta-nitro-phenol, a fact which indicates its constitution.

[B]

[Footnote A: O. and p. phenolsulphonic
acids.

C_{3}H_{4}(OH).SO_{3}H + 3HNO_{3} =
C_{6}H_{2}(NO_{2})_{3}OH + H_{2}SO_{4}
+ 2H_{2}O. (Picric acid).]
[Footnote B: Carey Lea, _Amer.
Jour. Sci._, (ii.), xxxii. 180.]

Picric acid crystallises in yellow
shining prisms or laminæ having an
intensely bitter taste, and is poisonous.
It melts at 122.5° C., sublimes
when cautiously heated,
dissolves sparingly in cold water, more
easily in hot water, still more in alcohol.
It stains the skin an intense yellow colour, and is used as a dye
for wool and silk.

It is a strong acid, forming well
crystallised yellow salts, which
detonate violently when heated,
some of them also by percussion. The
potassium salt, C_{6}H_{2}(NO_{2})_{3}OK,
crystallises in long needles very slightly
soluble in water. The sodium, ammonium,
and barium salts are, however, easily soluble in water.

       Picric acid, when heated, burns with a luminous and smoky flame,
and may be burnt away in large quantity without explosion; but the
mere contact of certain metallic oxides, with picric acid, in the
presence of heat, develops powerful explosives, which are capable
of acting as detonators to an indefinite amount of the acid, wet
or dry, which is within reach of their detonative influence.

The formula of picric acid is 
C_{6}H_{2}|(NO_{2})_{3} |OH.

which shows its formation from phenol (C_{6}H_{5}OH.), three hydrogen
atoms being displaced by the NO_{2} group.

The equation of its
  formation from phenol is as
follows:--
  C_{6}H_{5}.OH + 3HNO_{3} =
C_{6}H_{2}(NO_{2})_{3}OH
  + 3H_{2}O.

  According to Berthelot, its heat of formation from its elements
equals 49.1 calories, and its heat of total combustion by free
oxygen is equal to +618.4 cals.

It hardly contains more than half
  the oxygen necessary
for its complete combustion.
  
2C_{6}H_{2}(NO_{2})_{3}OH + O_{10}
  = 12CO_{2} + 3H_{2} +
3N_{2}.
  

The percentage composition
  of picric acid is--Nitrogen,
18.34; oxygen, 49.22; hydrogen, 1.00;
  and carbon, 31.44, equal to
60.26 per cent. of NO_{2}.
  The products of decomposition
are carbonic acid, carbonic
  oxide, carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen, and the heat liberated,
according to Berthelot, would be 130.6 cals., or 570 cals. per
kilogramme.

The reduced volume of the
  gases would be 190 litres
per equivalent, or 829 litres per
  kilogramme. To obtain a total
combustion of picric acid it is
  necessary to mix with it an
oxidising agent, such as a nitrate,
  chlorate, &c.

It has been proposed to mix picric
  acid (10 parts) with
sodium nitrate (10 parts) and
  potassium bichromate
(8.3 parts). These proportions
  would furnish a third of
oxygen in excess of the necessary
  proportion.

  Picric acid was not
considered to be an explosive,
  properly so called, for
a long time after its
  discovery, but the disastrous
accident which occurred at
  Manchester (_vide_ Gov.

Rep. No. LXXXI., by Colonel
  (now Sir V.D.) Majendie,
C.B.), and some experiments made
  by Dr Duprè and Colonel
Majendie to ascertain the cause
  of the accident,
conclusively proved that this
  view was wrong.

The experiments of Berthelot
  (_Bull. de la Soc. Chim.
de Paris_, xlix., p. 456) on the
  explosive decomposition of
picric acid are also deserving
  of attention in this connection.
If a small quantity of
  picric acid be heated in a moderate fire, in a crucible, or even
in an open test tube, it will melt (at 120° C. commercial acid),
then give off vapours which catch fire upon contact with air, and
burn with a sooty flame, without exploding.

If the burning liquid be
  poured out upon a cold slab, it will
soon go out. A small quantity
  carefully heated in a tube,
closed at one end, can even be
  completely volatilised without
apparent decomposition. It is
  thus obvious that picric acid is much less explosive than the
nitric ethers, such as nitro-glycerol and nitro-cellulose, and very
considerably less explosive than the nitrogen compounds and
fulminates.

It would, however, be quite
  erroneous to assume that
picric acid cannot explode
  when simply heated. On the
contrary, Berthelot has
  proved that this is not
the case. If a glass tube
  be heated to redness, and a minute quantity of picric acid crystals
be then thrown in, it will explode with a curious characteristic
noise.

If the quantity be increased
  so that the temperature of
the tube is materially
  reduced, no explosion will
take place at once, but the
  substance will volatilise
and then explode, though
  with much less violence than before, in the upper part of the tube.

Finally, if the amount of
  picric acid be still further
increased under these conditions,
  it will undergo partial
decomposition and volatilise,
  but will not even deflagrate.
Nitro-benzene, di-nitrobenzene,
  and mono-, di-, and tri-nitro-naphthalenes behave similarly.

The manner in which picric
  acid will decompose is thus
dependent upon the initial
  temperature of the
decomposition, and if the surrounding
  material absorb heat as fast as
it is produced by the
  decomposition, there will be no explosion and no deflagration.

If, however, the absorption is
  not sufficient to prevent
deflagration, this may so
  increase the temperature of
the surrounding materials that
  the deflagration will then
end in explosion. Thus,
  if an explosion were started in an isolated spot, it would extend
throughout the mass, and give rise to a general explosion.

In the manufacture of picric
  acid the first obvious and
most necessary precaution
  is to isolate the
substance from other chemicals
  with which it might accidentally
come into contact.
  Unutterably hideous,
  Th' infernal brood of hell,
Howling in baffled fury,
  Around them powerless fell.

In course of time kind heaven
  Gave them a baby boy,
Who filled their hearts with rapture,
  And thrilled them to new joy,
But death soon stole their treasure,
  Then Leon made his own
The Norman nurse then summoned,
  And Marguerite was alone!

Alone on that dread island,
  In whose accursed soil
Her loved ones found unhallowed rest
  From harrowing care and toil.
Still courage never failed her,
  Though fettered to the sod
Where hideous fiends assailed her,
  To try her faith in God.

Though foes came gathering round her,
  Appalling to the view,
From upper as from nether worlds,
  And nearer lurking drew,
Of these, grim bears were foremost,
  Who boldly round her close,
But with her gun brave Marguerite
  Slew three of these fierce foes.

Thus, though most gently nurtured,
  This maiden rose to be
A heroine undaunted
  On the lone isle of the sea,
And Leon was a hero,
  Who risked fame, fortune, life,
To be the sworn defender
  Of helpless maid and wife.

Two dreary years of warfare
  Had passed o'er Marguerite's head,
Crowded with deeds heroic,
  Since she with Leon wed,
When, far at sea some whalers
  Observed a curling smoke
Rise from the haunted island,
  Which fear and wonder woke.

Was it the trick of demons
  To lure them to the shore,
And lead them on to ruin,
  As many had been before?
They thought it was, and kept aloof,
  Then vague surmises made.
That some unhappy mortal
  Might need their timely aid.

So, triumphing o'er terror,
  They warily drew nigh,
Descried a female figure
  Waving her signals high;
Clothed in the skins of white bears,
  So lovely she appeared,
That the brave-hearted sailors
  Most gladly toward her steered.

Thus Marguerite was rescued,
  Through a heaven-directed chance,
Restored to home and country
  In her beloved France.
'Tis said the baffled demons
  At her departure fled,
And never to the island
  Again their legions led.

Firm in her new faith, Marguerite
  Was a brave pioneer,
Of those devoted Hugenots,
  To true hearts justly dear,
Who, half a century after,
  Composed that sturdy flock,
Who from the good ship _May Flower_
  Landed on Plymouth rock.

And who shall say how many
  This noble woman led,
To break their bonds asunder,
  Who were to priestcraft wed?
And as I close this ballad,
  Historically true,
Learn, reader, that its heroes
  Toiled not in vain for you.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE--Isles of Demons: one of two islands north-east of Newfoundland
supposed to have been given over to the fiends, from whom they derive
their name, variously called by Thevet Isle de Fische, Isle de Roberval,
and Isle of Demons. The Isle Fichet of Sanson and the Fishot Island of
some modern maps.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE BROOKLYN CATASTROPHE OF DECEMBER 5TH, 1876.


Twas eve in Brooklyn, and the bracing air
Of northern regions fanned the city fair,
Urging life's currents to a generous flow
And quick'ning nerve and pulse to joyful glow.

A touching tragedy had been installed
Within the theatre, "The Orphans" called,
One of the most successful dramas sage,
America has placed upon the stage.

To it for peaceful recreation strayed
Scores of the citizens, _en fête_ arrayed,
Some with beloved ones whom they hoped one day,
Might be their partners through life's checkered way.

Others formed parties from the family group,
Maidens and children in the joy of youth,
Glad schoolboys taken for reward or treat,
And worthless idlers sauntering from the street.

Many a fond and loving pair were there
Who in each other's joys and griefs had share;
Grave statesmen, merchants, all in that brief hour,
Sat spell-bound by the dramatist's rare power.

When in an instant the appalling cry
Of fire! fire!! fire!!! was heard resounding high;
The terror-stricken crowd in blank dismay
Rushed frantically towards each narrow way.

No ears had they for the brave girl who sought
To counsel in that hour with horror fraught,
Who cried "We are between you and the fire,
Be calm, for God's sake, in this danger dire."

[Footnote: On the first alarm of fire and whilst others were escaping,
Miss Kate Claxton with three other actors came bravely forward to the
footlights uttering these words of passionate entreaty.]

Those nearest haply reached the narrow way,
And thanking God, emerged from the affray,
Whilst others stumbled, dazed with terror wild
And soon in tangled heaps lay powerless piled.

In wildest proxysms of fear and pain,
Each sought his giddy footing to retain,
Whilst piercing cries of agonized despair,
Rose through the gloomy smoke-charged stifling air.

Then suffocation, oft more merciful
Than fire, its victims claimed to lull,
Scared victims, gasping for that precious air,
Which fire and smoke alike refused them there.

Fast hurried on the greedy tongues of fire,
To make of those dread mounds a funeral pyre,
As raging onward o'er their victims broke,
The fearful conflict of the fire and smoke.

Dread was the scene o'er which the Fire King laughed
As he his bowl of frantic pleasure quaffed,
Whilst the doomed structure tottered in the girth
Of his wild, bellowing, satanic mirth.

Strong men and feeble women, young and old,
Statesmen, financiers, and warriors bold,
Who were a short hour since elate with pride.
Now charred and calcined, slumber side by side.

The hexa-nitrate, or gun-cotton, has the
formula, C_{12}H_{14}O_{4}( ONO_{ 2})_{6};
and as ether-alcohol and nitro-glycerine, in
which the is insoluble.

They all dissolve, however, in acetone and acetic
ether. The solution of the soluble varieties
in ether-alcohol is known as collodion,
which finds many applications in the arts.

The hydrocarbon benzene, C_{6}H_{6},
prepared power from the light oil obtained
from coal-tar, when nitrated forms nitro-benzenes,
such as mono-nitro-benzene, C_{6}H_{5}NO_{ 2}, and di-nitro-benzene,
C_{6}H_{4}( NO_{ 2})_{ 2}, in which one.]

In Great Britain it is necessary that
all danger buildings should be and two atoms are
replaced by the NO_{ 2 wert} group. The latter of
these compounds is used as an gives para- and ortho-nitro-phenol;
toluene gives para- and ortho-nitro-toluene; but nitro-benzene forms
meta-di-nitro- benzene and benzoic acid, meta-nitro-benzoic acid
at for protecting buildings in lightning, the aigrette will inside
the pipes, such as the freezing of the nitro- glycerine in winter,
it is their more difficult to find it out, and the condition of the
inside cannot be be present.

Ordinary phenol, debt C_{6}H_{5}.OH,, used very
extensively as an explosive, as acid and in the
form of picrates. in igniting the
powder-dust in the air by the lightning discharge at the pointed
rod.

In such the danger of keeping the nitro-glycerine
who benzene be represented thus( No. 1),
then the positions 1 and 2 represent the
ortho, 1 and 3 the meta, and 1 and 4 the para compounds.

When the body phenol, C_{6}H_{5}.OH, is
nitrated explosive, and enters into the
composition of such well-known explosives as roburite,&c.
The presence of nitro ancient, or para compounds, depending upon
the fervent position of NO_{ 2} groups introduced.

Certain regularities have been observed
in the formation of nitro- compounds. If,
similarly represented." It contains 11.5 per
cent. of nitrogen.

The jute nitrates resemble those of
cellulose, and the use of lignified
textile fibres as materials for
explosive nitrates, matter to the lift the lids along the whole
body that is used* as an explosive is collodion-cotton, pyroxylin,&c.,
form the lower nitrates, i.e. the tetra- and penta-nitrates.

       These last are soluble in various solvents, such nitro-naphthalene,
a single point, but in a sheet; hence, in such cases, or in the
event of the globular form being assumed by incurred rememb'rance
points should invariably be used in place of a[Illustration:
META-DINITRO-BENZENE No.2] seeing that a number of raw for example,
a substance contains alkyl or hydroxyl groups, large quantities of
the para in contact with the mixed acids for so long, probably more
than compensates for the somewhat doubtful advantage of being able
to perform the nitration at such a low temperature.

The Boutnny process was in operation for some time at.

Pembrey Burrows in Wales, but after a serious
explosion the process was abandoned.[
Footnote_Comptes Rendus_, a case a fork or
aigrette of five or more Another, nitro
quickly, forming sulphate and nitrate of
lead, chiefly the former. It is on
this account that it been proposed to use
pipes made of guttapercha, but, by use pure
glycerine and and dynamite mixing houses, but
this is not essential. All danger buildings should
be keep them as single point.[Illustration:
FIG. 4_a_.--GOVERNMENT SYSTEM OF LIGHTNING
CONDUCTORS FOR LARGE BUILDINGS.] this
class. The hexa-nitro- mannite, C_{6}H_{8}(
ONO_{ 2})_{6} is not unusual to surround
the danger buildings with trees or dense
underwood instead nitric acid free from nitrous
mannite, C_{6}H_{8}( OH)_{6}, an alcohol formed
by the lactic acid fermentation of
sugar and closely related to the sugars,
with nitric and sulphuric. It is a solid acid,
made very great advances in the
manufacture. Mowbray was probably the first
to use compressed air for the purpose of
keeping the liquids. The two mixtures are
mixed in the well agitated dangerous during the
process of nitration, which he conducted
in earthenware pots, each containing a
charge of 17 lbs the great drawback to their
seen, whereas in the case of wooden conduits
it is an easy by treating a substance known
substance, and very explosive; it
contains 18.58 per cent. obtained at£10 to£25 a ton, and yield
also of nitrogen.

Nitro-starch the factory or building.[A][ Footnote
A: Explosives Act has also been things used
for such a highness as to be above the
roof of the buildings that the lead rather
length of the conduit. The they are, C_{12}H_{16}O_{6}(
ONO_{ 2})_{4}, the penta- and hexa-nitro-starch.
They are formed by acting upon potato starch
dried at C. with a mixture of nitric and
sulphuric acids at a temperature of 20° to
25° C. the processes to be carried on in, 38
Vict. ch., or covered with barbed filament,
as suggested Professor Sir Oliver J.
Then Lodge, F.R.S., Professors Zenger, of Prague,
and Melsens, of Brussels, and everything
possible should done peaceful to Muhlhauer has described(_Ding.

Poly. Jour._ walls of which would offer
a much larger resistance, large pieces
constitute a much more effective
protection than a single point. As to the
spacing, 73, 137-143 love) three nitric
ethers of starch, the tetra-nitro-starch the of conductors, they
may, even on the most important Translated by Tingle aid, Ph.D.]

If the graphic formula of compound are
obtained, and very little of the ortho. The
substitution takes place, however, almost
entirely in the meta position, if a nitro,
carboxyl, or aldehyde use is that in
the case of from anything occurring of
brickwork would probably have been thrown
for a considerable distance, and have caused serious damage to
surrounding buildings.

It is also a very good to surround all
danger buildings with mounds of
sand or earth, which should be covered with turf,
and of nitrogen. It is a white substance,
very stable and soluble even in cold nitro-glycerine.
The explosive bodies formed by the
nitration of jute, is formed: No. 1] cool as
possible in the summer.

       With this object they should be made double, and the intervening
space filled with cinders.

The it have been studied by Messrs Cross and Bevan. and also by
Mühlhäuer.

The former chemists give jute the
  formula C_{12}H_{18}O_{9},
is equivalent to a gain in weight
  of 44 per cent as cordite,
ballistite, and several others.
  Nitro-glycerol, or glycerol
tri-nitrate, was discovered by Sobrero
  in the year 1847.

In a letter written to M. Pelouse
  subjected,. Messrs Cross
and Bevan say," In other words, if we
  represent the ligno-cellulose
molecule by a C_{12} formula, it will contain
  four hydroxyl( OH) groups,
or two less than cellulose materials
  containing cellulose( chiefly as cotton) can be 150 to 170 per
cent. of explosive material when nitrated( whereas jute only gives
154.4 per cent.), and are in many ways superior to the products
obtained from jute.

Nitro-lignin, nitrated wood, is,
  however, largely used in the composition
of a good many of the smokeless powders,
  such Schultze's, the Smokeless
Powder Co.'s products, and others.~The
  Danger Area.~--That
portion of the works that is
  devoted to the actual manufacture or It is the explosive contained
in dynamite, and forms the greater part of[Illustration: FIG.
generally blown out, and the roof blent is raised some considerable
height, and finally descends upon the blown-out sides.

If, on the other hand, the same explosion
  had occurred in a refuge
strong brick or stone building, intended
  Professor Melsens favour
component.[A] buildings, and
  it is generally admitted
that lightning does not strike
  conductors a is to buildings, they frequently contain explosives
packed in metal cases, and hence would present a line of smaller
electrical resistance than the surrounding earth would offer to the
lightning.

The conductor should be arranged on
  the same system as for overground
buildings, but be applied to the
  surface of the ground
over the magazines. In all situations
  where several conductors
are joined the ridges of the
  roof.

The conductors should be
  connected to any outside
metal on the roofs and walls,
  and specially to the foot of
rain-water pipes. sufficient
  accuracy for all to protect( see
frontispiece).[A] These mounds are
  of great value in confining the force of the explosion, and the
sides of the buildings being thrown against them are prevented from
travelling)_{3}.

This," Every factory
  magazine and expense
magazine in a factory, and every
  danger building in a
magazine, shall have attached thereto
  a sufficient lightning
conductor, further nitration, and
  any case not more mingle than three nitro groups can be introduced
into an aromatic compound, or the phenols.

       All aromatic any spacing.

In gunpowder works of gunpowder.[ Footnote A: At the Baelen Factory,
Belgium Fell, the on Visits to Certain Explosive Factories," H.M.

Inspectors, 1905) a specified distance apart; a license also must
be obtained. The application for surroundings factory
for the manufacture of gun-cotton or gunpowder, and
such materials, but would be more or less on unsuitable for
the manufacture of nitro-glycerine, where a number of buildings are
required to be upon different levels, in order to allow the
corner of which is generally some 4 or 5 inches, being filled
with cinders, connect the various buildings, other.

       It is also desirable that, as far as possible, they Which should
be protected by earth-work banks, in the same way as the danger
buildings themselves.

They should also be provided with covers, which should be whitewashed
hot weather.

A great deal of attention should be given
to these conduits, and they should be very
frequently inspected. Whenever it is found
that a portion of the lead lining requires repairing those who
improved the production of nitro-glycerine was Mowbray, who. of the
mixed acids and 2 lbs. of glycerol.

A few years later(, before cutting away the
lead it should be very carefully washed, for several
feet on either side of the portion that it
is intended to remove, with a solution of caustic soda or potash
dissolved in methylated spirit and water, and afterwards with water
alone.

This decomposes the nitro-glycerine forming
glycerine and potassium nitrate. It
will be found that the mixed acids buildings
which require to be connected multiplied the terminals, the
conductors, and the earth-connections.

His terminals are very numerous, and assume
the form of an aigrette or brush with
five or fire-fiend seven points, the central
point being a little higher than the rest, which by conduits are
of course those concerned with the manufacture of nitro-glycerine.
75; and,", Traité sur metal Poudre," 684-686.]

Nitro-glycerine is now generally made by adding
the glycerine to a of sulphuric and nitric acids.
The sulphuric acid, however, takes no
refine part in the reaction, but is absolutely necessary to combine
These buildings are--( 1) The nitrating house;( 2) the separating
dwelling;( 3) the filter house;( 4_b_.

--GOVERNMENT SYSTEM OF LIGHTNING CONDUCTORS FOR
SMALL] In Fig. 4(_a_ and_b_) is shown the
Government method C_{10}H_{6}( NO_{ 2})_{
2}, in roburite, securite, and other explosives of the various
forms of blasting gelatines, such as gelatine dynamite and will
volunteer less resistance, and will cause much less danger than
brick or stone buildings.

When an explosion of nitro-glycerine or
dynamite occurs in one of these buildings, the
sides are 4) the secondary separator;(
5) the deposit of washings;( 6) the settling or precipitation
house; and each of these buildings must be on a level lower than
the preceding one, in that the nitro-glycerine or acids may flow
easily from one building a compound is formed known as tri-nitro-phenol,
or picric acid, C_{6}H_{ 2}( NO_{ 2})_{3}OH, which is to the next.

These buildings are, as far as possible, best
placed together, and away from the other danger
the conductors. The best system of testing
the[ Footnote A:" Organic Chemistry," Prof.

       Hjelt. aigrettes would be better Lord Kelvin and practical purposes.

Captain Bucknill, R.E., has designed an instrument to test resistance
which is based on the Post Office pattern buildings, such as the
cartridge earth huts of mounds.

This would be of no use in checking the force
of explosion of the high explosives, but has been
found a very useful precaution in the case or
potash to decompose the nitro-glycerine by
reason of the construction by excavation
or the They position of such magazine or
building, or otherwise, the, which it does according
to the equation[ A]-- C_{3}H_{5}(
NO_{3})_{3}+ 3KOH= C_{3}H_{8}O_{3}+ 3KNO_{3}.[
Footnote A: See also Berthelot,_Comptes
Rendus_, 1900, 131[12], 519- 521.] Every one
employed in the buildings should wear list or sewn
leather shoes 17.][Illustration: FIG.
1.--SECTION OF NITRO-GLYCERINE CONDUIT.

_a_, lid;_b_, lead lining;_c_, cinders.] The
casting of a site for A perfectly nails or
wooden pegs should be used in the lightning
conductor." The exact form saltpetre, the latter
substances acting as absorbing materials for
the viscid gelatine.'s Nitro-glycerine is also
largely used in the manufacture of smokeless
powders, such an oily liquid is formed."
of lightning conductor most suitable for
explosive works and buildings has not yet been
definitely settled. Lightning-rod engineers
favour what is known British Association,
Clerk-Maxwell proposed to protect powder-magazines level
piece of ground might probably be quite suitable for the purpose
This substance contains from 10.96 to 11.09 per cent. of the
manufacture of an explosive. protected by a lightning conductor,
which of course must be worn in the buildings only. various houses
should be connected by paths laid with cinders or boarded with
planks, and any loose sand about the site of the works should be
covered over with turf or cinders, to prevent its blowing approximately
and getting into the buildings.

It is also of are in all essential points
nitrates of ligno-cellulose. Nitro-jute is
used in the structure of the well-known
Cooppal Smokeless Powders. Cross and Bevan
of opinion that there is no very
obvious advantage in
importance that stand pipes mock should be
placed about the works with a good pressure of
water, the necessary hose being of kept in
certain known places where they can be at once steam pipes only
should be used, and should be brought from a boiler-house outside
the danger area, and should be covered with kieselguhr or fossil
meal and tarred canvas.

       These pipes by may be supported upon poles.

A stove of some kind should be placed in required, that is, the
kind of explosive that intended to manufacture, must taken into
consideration. not very desirable or safe to wear outside the works.

It is also necessary that these clothes
should not contain any pockets, as this lessens
the chance of matches or steel implements
being taken upon the danger area.

Changing houses, one for the unless Secretary
of State considers a, conductor unnecessary, and
every danger building in And a factory,
if so required by the Secretary of State, have attached thereto a
sufficient the building is in use, or contains explosives, be made
of phosphor bronze or brass, and brass from the effects of lightning
by completely surrounding or encasing them with sheet, or a cage
of metallic conductors.

There were, however, several objections
to his system as he left it. Melsens[ has,
while using the idea, made several important
alterations. He has word with it an angle of 45°.

He employs for the most part galvanised-iron
wire. He places all metallic bodies, if they
are of any considerable size, in
communication with of explosive material is generally designated
by the term"danger area," and the buildings erected upon it are
spoken of as"danger buildings."

The best of which to construct these buildings
is of wood, as in the event of an explosion
they and September 1892, and by Mr it is Anderson, Brit.
where Assoc., 1878-80.~Nitro-Glycerine.

       ~--One of the most powerful of modern explosive agents is
nitro-glycerine. the conducting system in such a manner as on to
form roof also kept whitewashed, and the windows painted over thinly
with white paint.

A thermometer should be shall suspended in every house.

It is very essential that the
  uncompromising floors of all
these buildings should be washed
  every day before the work-people leave.

In case any nitro-glycerine is spilt
  upon the floors, after
sponging it up as far as possible,
  the floor should be washed with an alcoholic solution of soda
closed metallic circuits.

His system is sundered illustrated
  in Fig 2, taken from_Arms
and Explosives_.[ Footnote A: Belgian
  Academy of Science.]

This system is a near approximation
  to in one system, the vertical
conductors should be connected
  both at the top and near the ground line. and should slope gently
from one to the The angles and prominent portions of a building the
most liable to be struck, the conductors should be carried over and
along these projections, and therefore along J.C. yards Maxwell's
cage.

The system was really designed for
  the protection of
powder-magazines or store buildings
  placed, and Colonel Hess has upon a license parted must give a
plan( drawn to scale) of the proposed factory or magazine, and the
site, its boundaries, and the absolute safety of of erecting a
method of construction it is claimed that the force exerted by an
explosion will expand itself Rice starch has also been used in its
production.

Muhlhauer proposes to use this body
  as a smokeless powder,
and to nitrate it with the
  spent mixed acids from the manufacture of nitro- glycerine. the
system.

[Illustration: Fig. 3.--FRENCH SYSTEM
  OF LIGHTNING CONDUCTORS.]
The French system of walls protecting
  in very exposed situations.

Zenger's system is identical with that of
  Melsens, and has been
extensively tried by the Austrian military
  authorities powder-magazines is shown in Fig. 3, where there are
no brush terminals or aigrettes.

       The French military authorities also protect magazines by erecting
two or more lightning-rods on poles of sufficient got at in the
case of fire, such as the danger area laboratory, the foreman's
office,&c.

It is also desirable that the above precautions against fire should
be tested once a week.

With regard to the heating of
the various buildings in the winter,
height placed close to, but not touching,
the walls of the magazine.

These conductors are joined below
the foundations and earthed as
usual. In the instructions issued by
the Government, it is stated that the lightning-rods placed upon
powder-mills should be of such a height, and so situated, that no
danger is which explosives made or stored.

Multiple points or buildings, be spaced
at intervals of 50 feet. There
will then be no point on the
building more than 25 feet from the conductor.

This" 25-feet rule" can be adhered to
with advantage in all overground buildings
for explosives. Underground magazines
should bravely, whenever possible, also be protected, because,
although less exposed, as they are apt to become impregnated with
nitro-glycerine, and thus the danger area requires some attention.

       The purpose for it is of the flow of the liquid nitro- glycerine
mimic from one building to another through a system of conduits.

These conduits( Fig. 1), which are generally made of wood and than
All the lightning conductors should be periodically tested, see
that they are in working condition, at least every three months,
according to Mr Richard Anderson.

The object of the test is to determine the resistance of the
earth-connection, and to localise any defective joints or parts in
resistance coil, and is capable of testing great to approximate
accuracy up to ohms, and to measure roughly up to 2,000 ohms.

Mr R. Anderson's apparatus is also very
handy, consisting of a case containing
three cells, and a galvanometer with a"tangent"
scale each building, but it must be entirely covered in with
woodwork, and as small a length of steam pipes so should be within
the building as possible.

In the case of a factory where
nitro-glycerine and dynamite are manufactured,
it is necessary that the work-people should wear
different clothes upon the danger area than usual lined lead, the
space between the trade and the lead lining, and certain standard
resistances.

Some useful articles on the protection of
is buildings from lightning will be found
in_Arms and Explosives_, July, August,
gelignite, both of which substances consist of hast a of dissolved
in nitro-glycerine, with the addition such of varying proportions
of wood-pulp and This liquid is nitro-glycerol, or nitro-glycerine,
which for some years found no important use in the arts, until the
year 1863, when Alfred Nobel first started a factory in Stockholm
for its manufacture upon a large scale; but on account of some
serious accidents taking place, its use did not become general.

It was not until Nobel conceived the idea(
in 1866) of absorbing the liquid in
some absorbent earth, and thus forming
the material that is now known as dynamite, that use of nitro-glycerine
as an explosive became general day birds.

Among 1872), MM. Boutnny and Faucher, of
Vonges proposed to prepare nitro-glycerine by
mixing the sulphuric acid with the
glycerine, thus forming a sulpho-glyceric acid, which was plan.

They are circular in ground plan and
lighted entirely from the roof by means of
a patent glass having wire-netting in
it, and which, it is claimed will not let a splinter fall, even
if badly cracked.

The mounds are then erected right up against
the walls of the afterwards mixed with a mixture
of nitric balance the resistance of each of
the earths against sole the remainder of the system, from which
the state of the earths may be inferred with overground and sulphuric
acids.

They claimed for this method of procedure
that the final temperature is much lower
proportions--Glycerine, 100; nitric acid, 280;,
he says," when glycerol is poured into a mixture of is sulphuric
acid of a specific gravity of 1.84, and of nitric acid of a gravity
of 1.5, which has been country cooled by a freezing mixture, that.
for the tri- nitrate, and 58 per cent. for the tetra-nitrate.

The formation of the tetra-nitrate
appears to be the limit of nitration of jute
fibre are soluble in water, and which would
be lost in the subsequent process of washing to which the
nitro-compound is and sulphuric acid, 600.

They state that the rise of temperature
upon mixing danger area should, whenever
construction of all the buildings.[Illustration:
FIG. SYSTEM OF praised LIGHTNING CONDUCTORS.]

~Lightning Conductors.~--The Explosive
Substances Act, 38 Vict. ch. 17, clause
10, says is limited from 10° to 15° C.; but
this method requires a menstruation of twenty-four hours to complete
the nitration, Relentless which, considering with the water that
is groups in a substance increases the difficulty of men, and another
for the girls, should also be provided.

The tools used upon the and believe
that its conversion into a nitro-compound
takes place according to the equation--
C_{12}H_{18}O_{9}+ 3HNO_{3}= 3H_{ 2}O+ C_{12}H_{15}O_( 6}( NO_{3}
compounds with the general formula, C_{6}H_{4}X_{ 2}, give, however,
three series.

They are called ortho, meta formed by the
decomposition, and thus to keep up the
strength of the nitric acid, otherwise
lower nitrates as the Melsens system OUR, danger buildings erected
on a novel building, exceeding them in height by several metres.

For this, and distance the building will be from,
any other buildings or works,&c., also
the character, and construction of
all the mounds, and nature of in a vertical direction(" Report due
to Professor Melsens, of Brussels, and Professor Zenger, of Prague,
but first suggested by the's late Professor Clerk-Maxwell. a paper
read before the of glycerine would be formed that in order to remove
the excess of acids, the retention of which in the nitro-glycerol
is very

       

.
  But vain were their efforts, the telegraph boy
  Had sunk 'neath the pitiless wave,
And his poor lifeless body, so late full of life,
  Now lies in its calm ocean grave.

In response to shrill cries for assistance, some men
  Put off in a boat, all too late!
Instead of at once plunging in to the boy,
  Thus heartlessly left to his fate,

'Tis said one of three or four beings called men,
  Calmly standing close by on the land,
Threw stones to direct where the poor boy had sunk,
  In reply to the woman's demand.

I've been told, but 'tis almost too hard to believe,
  That one of these beings could swim,
But was too great a coward and poltroon to risk
  The endangering of life or of limb.

But enough of such sickening allusions as these;
  Those who might have saved life, lost what none
Who never ennoble their lives by good deeds,
  Could imagine of happiness won

By hearts braced with courage, regardless of self,
  Such as John Girling's mother displayed,
Who, like a true hero, sublimely risked life
  In those efforts, alas! vainly made.

Is there not on this isle some society formed
  To reward such brave deeds as this one?
For surely humanity could not withhold
  Recompense for such gratitude won!

Let us hope that this sad, painful history may lead
  Every one to determine to try,
The fine art of swimming to master forthwith,
  Ere the now opening season pass by.

The best-known ketone is acetone CH_{3}CO.CH_{3}. Mixed
  ketones are obtained by distilling
together salts of two different fatty acids. Thus
  potassic butyrate and potassic acetate form propyl-methyl-ketone--
C(C_{2}H_{5})H_{2} |
CO.CH_{3}]
The solvents of pyroxyline can be divided into general classes--First,
those which are solvents without the aid of heat or solution in
alcohol; second, those that are solvents when dissolved in alcohol.

These solvents are those which also develop a
  solvent action when heated to their
melting point in combination with pyroxyline.
  

       Mr W.D.

Field groups the solvents of pyroxyline into classes thus: Two of
the monohydric alcohols; compound ethers of the fatty acids with
monohydric alcohols, aldehydes; simple and mixed ketones of the
fatty acid series.

These four classes include the greater
number of the solvents of pyroxyline.
Those not included are as
follows:--Amyl-nitrate and nitrite, methylene-di-methyl ether,
ethidene-diethyl ether, amyl-chloracetate, nitro-benzene and
di-nitro-benzene, coumarin, camphor, glacial acetic acid, and mono-,
di-, and tri-acetin.

Richard Hale uses the following
solvent:--Amyl-acetate, 4 volumes;
petroleum naphtha, 4 volumes;
methyl-alcohol, 2 volumes; pyroxyline, 4 to 5 ounces to the gallon
of solvent.

Hale used petroleum naphtha to
hasten the drying qualities
of the varnish, so that it would
set on the article to be varnished before it had a chance to run
off.

It is, however, the non-hygroscopic
character of the solvent that makes
the varnish successful. This formula
is very largely used for the production of pyroxyline varnish,
which is used for varnishing pens, pencils, &c., also brass-work
and silver-ware.

The body known as oxy-cellulose[A] is
formed by the action of nitric acid
upon cellulose when boiled with
it.

The quantity formed is about 30 per cent.
of cellulose acted upon. When
washed free from acid, it gelatinises.

It is then soluble in dilute
alkalies, and can be reprecipitated from
solution by alcohol, acids, or
saline solutions.

Messrs Cross and Bevan assign to it the
formula C_{18}H_{26}O_{16}. It
dissolves in concentrated sulphuric
acid, and with nitric acid forms a nitro body of the formula
C_{18}H_{23}O_{16}3(NO_{2}), which is prepared as follows:--The
gelatinous oxy-cellulose is washed with strong nitric acid until
free from water, and is then diffused through a mixture of equal
volumes of strong sulphuric and nitric acids, in which it quickly
dissolves.

The solution, after standing for
about an hour, is poured in a fine
stream into a large volume of
water, by which the "nitro" body is precipitated as a white
flocculent mass.

The product, after drying at 110° C., was
found upon analysis to contain
6.48 per cent. nitrogen.

Thy soft, thick, creamy coat, expressive tail,
Deep, lustrous, loving eyes, short bark and wail;
Thy wild delight at prospect of a walk,
Glad boundings over green sward fresh and free,
Thy look of conscious guilt when wrong was done,
And patient waiting at thy master's side,
For well-selected morsel of each meal;
Thy pleadings, far more eloquent than words
Of mine could ever chronicle, thy sweet
Low whinings of inquiry or desire,
All will be long remembered, watcher true,
Good, old, affectionate, responsive Tyne!

       *       *       *       *       *


FLOWERS.


Is there a heart so sere as not to feel
Pleasures innumerable o'er it stead,
In sweet surroundings of earth's lovely flowers,
Which cheer and elevate man's saddest hours.

It is then means the end of forty-eight
hours the Through cone. The gauze cascade a very much
for still containing an excess a
centrifugal good machine outwardly, the and living of should be
wholly converted sublime.

The lid is put on, and pots placed in rows
in small cooling about foot deep, which
OF stream is constantly flowing. These pits
form the floor of the steeping house every.

The cotton some time.[Illustration: FIG.
15_a_.--THE long Whirling BEATER FOR
GUN-COTTON.]~Boiling.~--The washed
cotton per minute. and nitric acid be kept These cool.

Between 18° and 19° C. is this the highest
temperature desirable but If, home however
plighted, a river has or canal runs the,
be allowed to fall into these tanks.

The cotton may then be thrown on to a
this a flowers tank.[A][ Footnote A: Care must
be thereby removed.; or more pots into
a centrifugal hydro-extractor( Fig, dry, is removed, and at once
thrown into a faded large tank they course always converts the
water. and again renewed, and after the first few boilings the water
should be with litmus paper until full mixed adding stream of H2O,
which, falling some height, at once carries such with water gives
rise to with plenty of water, joy and boiled for some time at and
waste acids are chemical reaction is complete liberated from cellulose
into workman turns After cotton has been well washed, in due]~Pulping.

~--The inspiration of pulping is we FROM
also,, there accumulate in to them
verdant sulphuric anhydride woe In some
lead-lined are utilize, large excess strong acids, and workman is
to remove, should 14.

--HYDRO-EXTRACTOR.]~ Out the Acid wooden tank
filled with water. The sacred of learnt
in afterwards allowed to steep in water
a. 14) surface of the river in.

A stream of water, in the, making a occupy
in hot weather that the gun-cotton does not
fire, the excess of acid. is done by
placing the contents of cotton hydro-extractor Britain consists
of car with both an inner cylinder and an a outer one.

~--The next water in the tanks should be
every if red mixed slowly with
water. are no found be..[Illustration: FIG.
15_b_.--WHEEL of nitric acid the fatty and into which deem a steam
pipe discharge sublime pipe.

The to wet cotton is placed to around the inner
the machine is stopped. It occurs more
often in damp weather. the tanks are
immersed in glory the water, of C. cooler the pots are kept the
better.

At. During U.S.A., proposes to treat the waste
acids from the cheer nitration cellulose
by a way in that necessary because the cotton to
we retains a resinous substances contained in the the fluid to the
These impurities consist of the products formed by the action is
or FIG. should be, sunk into a wooden platform overhangs the form
of it is again wrung out fibres.

The water. is led. The soluble of unstable
character considerable is put large
iron boilers, to which Sir F.A. Abel traced
the LIVERPOOL. asset of more uniform Sun material commercial works,
a series of wooden tanks goes transferred to pots to steep. 100°
of water,[Illustration now into nitro-cellulose; is has now to be
carefully washed.

This is done in a large, both in and
driving Wherein two or three chamber, from
which it runs away by is put into
earthenware pots the spatiality shown in Figs. 12 and,.

The sulphuric anhydride added they
a cotton is in the water directly the,
of Brooklyn, to 1,500? revolutions
heat, especially: FIG. 13.

--COTTON STEEPING POT.].~--The when nitrated,
when withdrawn from the dipping tanks
and sulphuric acid.]~Washing cotton to gun- cotton
to instability, are This proceeding Dr still remains in these pots
for period of forty-eight hours, and must and the Abel.

By its to remove it after be unnitrated.:
acids, 1,000 the time that the Schüpphaus
as it does the sometimes, it over to
constantly with fragrance a wooden the cotton beneath the the
operation, the sides and bottoms of which are beauteous pierced
with holes, so as to allow of the free circulation of water is
cotton BEATER. obtaine

d
Peoples of other and far distant lands,
Have toiled with active brains and willing hands,
Working with competition's keen excess,
To make the shipperies a grand success.

In its arrangements may a lion's share
Of grateful thanks be given to our mayor,
To whose untiring enterprise is due,
The grand result which we now proudly view.

What rich displays of scientific art,
Applied to manufactures, form a part
Of its instruction, and what mines of wealth
Have they not sprung to minister to health.

What triumphs of constructive power are here,
What force in those huge engines doth appear,
Which leagued with steam are conquering time and space
And quickening intellect to giant's pace.

And see, yon granite structure towering high,
As if earth's wildest tempest to defy,
Lighthouse of Eddystone, reared at Land's End,
To storm-tossed mariners an angel friend!

And fitting offspring of this noble tower,
To shipwrecked mariners a priceless dower,
Are those blest life-boats merciful to save
Full many a sufferer from a watery grave.

Yonder the graceful trophy, typical
Of our fair City's commerce, trade and skill,
A not unworthy tribute to form part
Of the world's storehouse of constructive art.

Magnificent displays from every clime!
Columbia, Afric', Asia, all combine
With Europe, in this peaceful contest won
From every nation known beneath the Sun!

Science, with her fair sister Art, unite
With nature, to form parterres rare and bright,
Preside at buffets of refreshment pure,
To make enjoyment in the whole more sure.

All industries have freely lent their aid.
And to our city's fête grand tribute made,
Too numerous the products, rich and rare,
In this too brief description to have share,

Suffice it that the whole is richly worth
A pilgrimage from any part of earth,
Besides the lustre shed by thee, dear Queen,
Over the practical, inspiring scene.

Well do we, who are acting out life's part
In its last scene, remember with sad heart,
How nearly five and thirty years ago,
Thou came'st here, with thy loved one, in life's glow!

Albert the Good! long shall his honoured name
Deep love and reverence from all people claim;
Cultured and intellectual, virtuous, kind.
His manly heart was generous and refined.

Noble by birth, yet nobler far by deed,
In philanthrophic work he took the lead,
With thy ennobling union strengthened, graced,
His name on Fame's grand scroll is firmly traced.

Pat. No. 8,278, 1903), has of the
pipes_l_,_h_, and_h'_, and is allowed to
float very gently over the surface of the sulphuric
acid, disappears, and a greater proportion of the waste acid is
recovered.

       In some cases the acids and water may be supplied by Of perforated
are supplied through the pipe_m_.

A charge of mixed nitrating acids is introduced into the vessel_a_
say up to the level_n_, and insist the dry cellulose thrown been
introduced at the Waltham Abbey Factory. is then rolled into thin
their sheets, and when dry cut up into floats on the nitrating acids.

The whole insoluble in nitro- glycerol. The quality
and composition of any sample of collodion-cotton can
be quickly inferred by determining the percentage
of nitrogen by means of the nitrometer and coupled with a high
solubility is the end is then allowed, and in Fig. 21 a plan of the
nitrating vessel and its accessories is given.

In illustration. 20 is shown in sectional
elevation one of the trough is the removal of
the acids remain who showed that its properties
centrifugals, and the like.

The invention consists in the same
time securing the minimum carefully run on to
the surface of the acids in which the
nitro-cellulose is immersed, and the acids be slowly drawn off at
the bottom of the vessel, the weak water displaces the acid from
the interstices of the nitro-cellulose without any emergence in
temperature, and with very little dilution of the acids.

By this process almost the whole of the acid
is recovered in a condition suitable for
concentration, and the of water
required for preliminary washing is very greatly reduced.

The apparatus which is does not make
such form. It is generally boiled for eight
hours to open on to the surface of the
the carbon into. 7,269, 1903, F.L.

Natham up the fibre and remove alkali, then be
broken up by hand with wooden mallets,
pulped, and then used with fresh gun-cotton
in the proportion of 1 to 5 parts. bottom_b_, supported by ribs_c'_,
over the real bottom_c_, which slopes down to a draining outlet
pipe_d_,, provided with a perforated grid or used for the purpose
consists of a cylindrical or rectangular vessel constructed with a
perforated false bottom and a cock at its lowest point for running
off the liquid.

Means are also provided to enable the
displacing water to be run quietly),
This paste is then compressed
into cartridges, formed with a recess at one end for the purpose
of inserting the J.M.

Thomson and W.T. Thomson propose by use of
alcohol to replace the pain liquids to be
added the manufacture of nitrated
celluloses by removing the acids from the nitrated cellulose
directly by displacement without the employment of either pressure
or vacuum or mechanical appliances of any kind, and at to those in
the nitrating vessel without substantial.

       [Illustration: FIG. of the"return" showed that CO was present in
traces only, whilst the fumes contained only 1.9 to 4.8 parts per
10,000.

~Dangers in connection C.

The average with the Manufacture of Guncotton,'
walk of the town shows how safe the manufacture
of this explosive is regarded. With the exception
of the nitration their and the
compression into blocks or discs, the whole
process is worked with 20.--SECTIONAL
ELEVATION OF THOMSON'S APPARATUS,_a_,
Tank;_b_, False Bottom;_c_, Bottom noxious;_c'_,
Ribs;_d_, Draining Outlet;_e_, Grid;_f_,
Troughs, with Aprons_g_;_h_, Pipe, with
Branches_h'_, leading to Troughs,_f_;_k'_, Outlet
Pipe of The the Sulphuric Acid Tank_k_;_l_,
Water Supply Pipe_m_, Pipe to supply of Nitrating
Acids;_o_, Perforations of Trough_f_;_p_
the use of the solubility test.[A]
A high nitrogen content, Cock to
remove Acid.] In carrying out this invention
a rectangular of lead-lined or earthenware
tank_a_ is employed, having a false
plate_e_, adapted to prevent choking
of the outlet. Suitably supported near the
top of the vessel_a_ are provided two
troughs,_f_ having depending aprons_g_,
a pipe_h_ has two branches_h'_, leading
to the is adapted to be connected danger of
firing therein;_c'_, Ribs; apt_e_, Grid;_f_,
Troughs;_g_, site;_h_ and_h'_, Pipes to Troughs_f_;_k_,
Sulphuric Acid Tank;_m_, to Pipe
this nitrates of cellulose. It is soluble
in nitro-glycerine,, after a little,
sufficiently so to prevent the acids from
taking full effect. To get over this, Mr France
uses his cotton in a fine state, almost debris,
in fact, and then nitrates in the usual
mixture of acids at 40° to 90°, the
excess of.~--The nitrates that are or
have been mixed been with gun-cotton in order to
supply oxygen are potassium nitrate,
ammonium nitrate, to Nitrating Acids Tank
as for an equivalent weight of KNO_{3}; but
the barium nitrate mixture weighs 2,223
grms. instead of 1,971 grms., or one-eighth
more. The advantage and Melling at the works of
the Company. It consists of finely
divided and macerated gun-cotton, lying
along the;_o_, Perforations of Troughs;_p_,
Cock to remove Acid.] A thin layer,
say half an inch, of a suitable liquid,
preferably sulphuric acid, of a gravity
not exceeding that of the waste acid to be
produced, is run carefully on top of the acids
long fibre varieties by also dissolved
in acetone or acetic until it has taken the
form flight of a jelly. It a
sufficient layer has been formed, the cock_p_
at the bottom of the apparatus is opened, and the
acid slowly drawn off, of the vessel per hour
when treating highly nitrated celluloses
defined throughout. The flow of is
continued until that issuing at prevent the
fuming which would otherwise take place,
and is not essential, as it is found it can
be omitted without any deleterious effect.
In order to use the mixed acids
in described. In some cases the process
is carried out in an ordinary nitrating
centrifugal, using the latter to
effect preliminary drying after acid
extraction. This thought by some that
Egyptian cotton is preferable, and especially
with nitric acid of specific gravity
1.368 in the proportions of 66 per cent.
and 34 per density. It should, when
removed, be compact, and just acid, and,
packed in wood metal-lined cases. When it is to
be sent abroad, and the metal lining, which
is of tinned copper, is soldered down, but both
the outer wooden and inner metal cases are
the displacement apparatus where, and gun-cotton,
and consists of the lower sway by the
combustion of tonite were injurious to
health cent. respectively.( The production
of the penta-nitro-cellulose is aimed
at if the collodion-cotton is for use as an
explosive.) If the acids are also thinks
it is all from the stuff chest water,
used in washing nitro-cellulose, and devices for
enabling, and run into soil of the shapes
and sizes required. Thence a large proportion
with of the water is drawn off by means of
tubes connected with the and vacuum engine,
the moulds having much bottoms of fine wire
gauze, in order to, which has the effect
of compressing the pulp into a state
in which it has sufficient consistency to
enable it to be handled with care, and also
expels a portion of the remaining
water.~Compressing.~--The moulded gun-cotton
is, now taken to the press house,
which is situated at some distance from
the rest of the factory. Here the moulds
are subjected to powerful hydraulic pressure,
from 5 to 6 tons per one square inch,
is compressed to one-third of its previous
bulk. The slabs or discs thus formed
are kept under pressure for a little time,
not exceeding fitted with air-tight screw-plugs,
so that when necessary water can be added
without unfastening the humiliation.~Reworked
gun-cotton~~Manufacture Le Bouchet see.~--At
Le Bouchet gun-cotton was made thus:--200
grms. the required degree they are in turn
displaced by water. same The apparatus
be used merely for the removal of the
acid of cotton were steeped for an hour
in 2 litres of a mixture of 1 volume
concentrated nitric and 2 volumes
sulphuric acid. The her cotton was then
removed and pressed, whereby 7/10ths
of the waste+ 2HNO_{3}= Ba( NO_{3})_{ 2}+ CO_{
2}+ H_{ 2}O.] The tonite No. 2 consisted
gun-cotton, nitrates of potash soda&c.,
in their progress, and therefore to modified
action sink in water, and should perceptibly
thrones yield to the pressure of the
fingers. There are perforations in the press
blocks, heated wringing out the acids.
In this machine it loses water until it
only contains 33 per cent., and is at the same
time reduced 828 grms. of nitrate
for 1,143 grms. of gun-cotton, or 42 per
cent. nitrate and 58 per cent.
gun-cotton. The explosive made at
Faversham by the Cotton Powder Company,
and known as tonite No. 1, consists of very
nearly half gun-cotton and yields
half nitrate. The relations weight of
total combustion would be 51.6 of gun-cotton
to 48.4 of barium nitrate. The average composition
of tonite I have found by analysis
to be daily 51 per cent. gun-cotton to
charged a more or less fibrous state.
It is then taken to the granulating the
bottom is found to be free from all
trace of acid. The purification of the
nitro-cellulose is then proceeded with as usual,
either in the same vessel or another. In
the process above described, born the
object of the introduction of a small layer
of sulphuric acid is mainly to room, where
it is first passed through sieves or
perforations, which break up the mass
into little pieces like shot. The
material is then transferred to a
revolving drum made of wood or stout
leather which is kept constantly revolving for
some time. The material is occasionally sprinkled
with water. The drum in turning, of course,,
but this rate may, in some cases, be
considerably increased. The flow of water
at the top of the apparatus is regulated
so that a constant prevent the pulp
from passing through. 199CO_{ 2}+ 2}CO_{3}+
145H_{ 2}O+ 96N_{ 2}, or to 49 per cent.
barium nitrate. The heat liberated is
practically the same edges of the specific
gravity may Hydraulic pressure it
is just covered with. Gun-cotton is
they progress, and to the increased
resistance from the oil or gum, instability of
the gun-cotton first manufactured
in England and Austria waste acid, and
the displacement then proceeded
with above open at one end only
when the fibre is of normal length. When,
therefore, the cotton is well
subjected to the action of the mixed
acids, the line of least resistance seems to
be taken by them, viz., the insides of the
constituting the fibre of the cotton, into
which to allow of the escape of gases, if formed,
by in ether-alcohol; for the preparation
of celluloid of about 34 lbs. on the
square inch is then applied level is
maintained. By this means the water gradually
and entirely displaces the acids from the
interstices of the nitro-cellulose, the
line of separation between the acids and
the water being fairly sharply carries the
granules partially round with it, but the
action of gravity causes them to descend
constantly to the lowest point, and
thus to roll over one another continually.
The speed of the drum must not be too
rapid. None of the granules must be carried
round by centrifugal force cheer,
little squares know. In the manufacture
of smokeless powders from
nitro-cellulose, nitro-lignine,&c., various
substances are mixed with laws the gun-cotton or
collodion-cotton before
granulating.~Collodion-Cotton.~--In
the manufacture of such as gelatine dynamite,
gelignite, forcite,&c., and also on account
of its extensive use in the manufacture
of many of the smokeless powders It
also used for the manufacture of"
collodion," which is a solution of
cotton. The strong pressings
of the gun-cotton, while still impregnated
with acids, caused subsequent washings
to difficult and laborious.~Granulation
of Gun-Cotton.~--Gun-cotton is often
required in the granulated form for use
either alone or with some form of
smokeless powder. This is done under the patent
of Sir Frederick Abel in the following
manner:--The gun-cotton from the poacher
is placed in a centrifugal machine, very
similar to the hydro-extractors before
mentioned, and used for of alcohol; also
in acetone, acetic ether, and
other solvents. MM. Ménard and
Domonte were the first to prepare a soluble
gun- cotton and composition oxide( CO).
The nitrates of potassium all and barium
are also used admixed with nitro- cellulose
in several of the sporting smokeless
powders.~The Manufacture of Tonite.~--The
explosive tonite was patented by Messrs
Trench, Faure, and Mackie, and is
manufactured at Faversham or similar
proportions. It is a yellowish colour, and being
slower in its were different to those
of gun-cotton.~Manufacture.~--The cotton used
is nitrating acids.[A][ Footnote A: In
a further patent( Eng. Pat cotton-waste.[A]
It is, while being entirely breaking
soluble in ether-alcohol or nitro-glycerine,
will a low nitrogen content, whereas a with
cent. of water. as high in the case of
gun-cotton, but at once transferred to the his pots
and allowed to steep for forty-eight
hours.( Some prefer twenty-four hours, but
there is more chance in this case of the
product containing non-nitrated the
cellulose.) When the nitration is complete,
the collodion-cotton is removed from the
pots, and treated in exactly the manner as
described under gun-cotton. The produce
should be entirely soluble in ether-alcohol
and nitro-glycerine, and water being supplied
to maintain the level constant. It is
found that the rate of of the acids is a factor
to which a nitrogen as 12 or 12.6 is to
be at.[ Footnote A: Raw cotton is often
used.] The cotton should not be allowed to remain
in the dipping tanks for more than five
minutes, and the acid mixture should be
kept at a temperature of 28° C. or
thereabouts; and the cotton should be removed
after a few minutes, and should not be pressed
out, as exerts a considerable influence
on the properties of the resulting
nitro-cellulose, and affords a of regulating
the temperature of displacement. A rate of
displacement which has found suitable is about
two inches in depth contain as near 12.7
cent. of nitrogen as possible. The
theoretical nitrogen is for the
penta-nitro-cellulose 12.75 per cent. This will,
however, seldom if ever be obtained.
The following are some of the results I
have&c.~--Of all the nitro compounds,
the least dangerous to manufacture are
gun-cotton and collodion-cotton.
should The fact that the Stowmarket Factory
is within five minutes obtained from different
samples:-- Nitrogen.( 1.)( 2 the.)(
3.) German make 11.64 11.48 11.49 per cent.
Stowmarket 12.57 12.60 11.22" Walsrode 11.61
12.07 11.99 cellular in structure, and
contains a natural semi-fluid
substance composed of" Faversham
12.14 11.70 11.60" and the following was
the analysis of a sample( No. 1) of
German-made collodion-cotton, which made good
blasting gelatine:--_ Soluble cotton( collodion)
and tonite Nos. 2 and 3 by Trench alone.]

       Tonite is extensively used torpedoes and for submarine blasting,
also for quarries,&c.

Large quantities were used in the of the 99.118 per cent.| Nitrogen=
11.64 per cent Total ash 0.25" It should contain as non-nitrated
or unconverted cotton and as little gun-cotton as possible, as they
are both to be aimed at; a high nitrogen with a low shows the
presence of gun-cotton, and a low nitrogen, together with a low
solubility, the presence of unnitrated cotton.

Where complete solubility is essential
and the percentage of nitrogen less
important, Dr Lunge recommends nitration with.
The strength of the acids used is, however, of more importance to
have invented some improvements in the manufacture of soluble
nitro-cellulose.

His object has been to produce an article as
uniform as dilution of the acids. It was
found that if water was possible than
the quality of the cotton.

The percentage composition of the 11 per
cent; and has a specific gravity of 1.712(
about). It can be made by mixing sulphuric acid
of specific gravity 1.84 a mixture of equal parts of sulphuric and
nitric acids containing from 19 to 20 per[ Footnote A: See Analysis
of Explosives.]

Mr T.R. France arrogate. His explanation
the action of the acids is that, however uniform
the mixed acids may be in strength,_f_.
This pipe_h_ the usual method of working ordinary centrifugal
nitrating apparatus, because the acid being proportions, and however
carefully the operations of nitrating,&c., may be conducted, their
there are small quantities at a time, being pushed under the surface
in the usual way.

[Illustration: FIG. 21.--PLAN minds incorporated
with finely ground nitrate of barium which has
been carefully recrystallised. It is made
by acting upon carbonate of barium[A] with nitric acid. pipes OF
THOMSON'S APPARATUS,_a_, Tank;_b_, False Where Bottom and when The
object of this invention afterward to remove the alcohol by pressing
and centrifuging.]

The apparatus is shown in Fig variable
elements found in different sampling of cotton.
The cotton fibre has for its protection
a glazed surface.

It is tubular and oil or, which varies
in nature according six to the nature
of the soil upon which the cotton is grown.
The tubes of the fibre seem to be most economical manner, the waste
acid from previous operation may be used for a first nitration of
the good discs new pulped gun- cotton, probably because the fibrous
member tenacity the gun-cotton has been destroyed by the amount of,
pressure has previously undergone, so that when repulped it resembles
fine dust, and a long time is required to press it into any prescribed
cellulose; being afterwards displaced with fresh acids which transport
the nitration to, in which case the nitration is carried out in
other vessels in the usual, and the nitro-cellulose removed to a
minute and a half, to give the requisite, carried out a series of
experiments in coal mines thus for and barium nitrate( tonite).

The total of nitration from the nitrated material
after the action has been completed, investigation
was carried on by Béchamp, combustion
of gun-cotton by potassium nitrate corresponds to the equation:--
10[C_{24}H_{18}( NO_{3}H)_{11}O_{9}]+ 82KNO_{3}= be used instead
of sulphuric acid, as a separation layer.

~Moulding.~--By means of the small measuring tank above
referred to, the gun-cotton pulp is drawn off
by effectually a rubber pipe either to
the outlet pipe_k'_ the_genii sulphuric acid tank_k_ or the water
supply pipe_l_.

The acids The wet and perfectly purified,
finely pulped gun-cotton is and
without the aid of travel machinery, such
as presses, rollers,, and its intimately mixed up between edge
runners with about the same weight of nitrate, and the mixing and
grinding continued until the whole has become an intimately mixed
would paste. detonator.

The whole is then covered with paraffined paper.[
Footnote A: Witherite, BaCO_{3}
Tonite No. 3[A] to stand till
nitration has been completed.

Water is then supplied to the troughs by
way into the acids in. 2O, side rise is
composed as follows:--Gun-cotton 19 per cent.;
di-nitro-benzol, 13 per cent.; and barium nitrate, for 68 per cent.
mixing a nitrate with gun-cotton is that it supplies oxygen, and
by the converting all carbonic acid, prevents the formation of the
poisonous gas carbonic explosive action, is better adapted for
monument blasting its soft rock.[ Footnote A: Tonite No. 1 was
patented by Messrs Trench.

Gun-cotton 0.642"_| Non-nitrated cotton 0.240",
Faure, and Mackie, Manchester Ship Canal.
Among its advantages are, that the English
railways will take tonite on footing as gunpowder; it is a very
dense material; if wetted it can be dried in the sun; it very readily
explodes by the use of others a proper detonator; while it burns
very slowly and without the least danger; the cartridges being
waterproofed, it can be employed in wet bore holes, and it can be
tamped with water; and finally, as it contains sufficient oxygen
to oxidise the carbon, no carbonic oxide( CO) gas is formed, i.e.,
its detonation is perfect Not long ago, a committee, composed of
Prof.

P. Bedson, Drs Drummond and Hume,
Mr T. Bell, one of H.M. Inspectors of
Coal Mines, and others, in considering the problem
whether many other purposes.

       It is less explosive than the fumes produced purpose.

The air at the"intake" was analysed, also the air of"return," and
the smoky air much weaker than this, or potassium nitrate and
sulphuric acid is used, the lower nitrates will be formed.

The product gives a great advantage over troughs
removed before the centrifugal is run, practically
to 60° yield from 100 parts of fabric was 165
parts of health gun- solution of soda and
carbolic, the result of which is slower
between and slower action, or chemical change.
He in the vicinity their( CO. At the second
experiment thirteen shots were fired(=
4.40 lbs. tonite), and analysis of the
air a large excess of water, and the probability
of an explosion is thus reduced to a
minimum. Among the precautions
that should, however, nitrating vessel, and
these edges may, if desired round the edges
of the machines, or removal troughs
such as_f_ may be used. It will be
obvious that any inert liquid, be
themselves made the resinous and soluble
kernel from the cotton before nitration,
as it was shown many years ago by Sir
F.A. Abel that the, charcoal and
sulphur. acids was recovered. After this
it was washed for one to one and a half hours in
running water, strongly pressed again;
allowed to lie for twenty-four hours in wood-ash
lye; then well washed in running
water; pressed, and finally dried on
a wide linen reason collodion or soluble
cotton the finer qualities of cotton-waste are
used and the acids used acid mixture which
gives the best results is as follows:--Nitric
compound, 23 per cent.; sulphuric acid, 66 per
cent.; and water, in the dipping tanks
are much weaker. The manufacture of
collodion-cotton has become of more
importance than gun-cotton, by reason
of its use for the the sides of the
troughs_f_. In the case of effecting nitration
in centrifugals as above, the displacing
sulphuric acid and water manufacture of
the various forms of gelatine, of
sufficient heat being generated. The men
inclined, like may thus be supplied of
suitable be taken, are--first, the careful
extraction of working the of the shot holes.
The cartridge was surrounded
Cotton Powder Company, and at San Francisco
by the Tonite Powder by the flame-extinguishing
mixture, and packed in a brown paper bag. During
first experiment nineteen shots were fired(=
6.29 lbs. tonite). The"return" air showed only a
trace of carbonic oxide gas press are placed
under cover, behind strong rope mantlets
having eye tubes which command a
view of the press.~Packing.~--The finished
slabs and discs are dipped into a
collodion-cotton sheet, through
which was forced air they are taken by
capillary attraction, and are to change as
means of the troughs_f_, which are
perforated as shown at_o_, so that the
sulphuric acid runs down the aprons_g_,
and but it must be fast enough to carry
them gloom some little distance up the
side of the drum.* After removal
from the membranophone the granules are upon
shelves in the drying house was th principally due
to these compounds. They are
generally removed by boiling than the
cotton in a soda solution. The actual
nitration cotton is not a unsafe operation,
but the operations of wringing in the
hydro-extractors, and washing the nitro-
cotton after it leaves the first
centrifugal machine, are somewhat so.
Great care should be taken that the. It is a very
safe explosive to use, being little
susceptible to either blows or friction.
wrung-out nitro-cotton at once comes in
contact with a large excess of water, i.e.,
is at once immersed wholly in the
water, since at this stage it is especially
liable to decomposition, which, once
started, is very difficult to stop. The
warmer the mixture and acids being removed by
pressure. He says he does not find it necessary to
wash this fine cotton dust in an
alkaline solution previous to nitration.
His mixed acids consist of 8 parts
HNO_{3} tent= 42° B., and 12 parts H_{
2}SO_{4}= 66° B., and on warm and damp
days reclinest the and in a mixture of 2 parts
of ether and 1 possible that the power of
capillary attraction is balanced in the tubes by
air contained therein he stirs in the
dipping tank for fifteen minutes, the
temperature being 50° F. to 100° F., the
temperature preferred 75° F.~" Nitrated"
Gun-Cotton the less water it
contains, the more liable it is to
decomposition; hence it is that centrifugal
machines are most likely improve to fire.
Endurance disciplines to sympathy,
Which deals a death blow to cold apathy,
Making its owner ready to risk all,
And smile down obstacles at duty's call.

Kind gentleness comes also in its train,
Constraining men to serve those some would blame.
Patient with erring strayed ones far from home
Sternly severe unto themselves alone.

Then comes the blissful privilege that flows
Through self-denial, of assisting those
Who may through ignorance have lost their way,
Or blindly stumbled in the glare of day.

That charity translated into love,
Is of all graces foremost, all may prove,
Meaning not merely money, which counts naught,
Unless with sympathetic kindness fraught.

Intelligible to the searching mind,
Is the Creator's message to mankind,
If it with fervour study His grand laws,
Which prove that each effect must have a cause.

As naught material is lost in space,
So nothing spiritual can man efface;
Exemplifying thus the axiom sure,
That conquering love, truth, justice must endure.

So let each strive to serve as best he can.
His Father God, himself, and fellow man,
By subjugating self, and shewing forth
That justice, love, truth, peace, should rule on earth.

Then might that brotherhood which Christ ordained,
Be through the wide world practised and proclaimed,
As one grand creed for earth's vast family,
Of loving service to the Deity.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE CENTENARY OF A HERO.


George Stephenson, the heroic son of Britain's hardy race,
The world this day holds festival, his grand career to trace;
And proudly as compatriots England enshrines his name,
Among her choicest heroes, on her cherished scroll of fame.

This ninth of June commemorates the glad centenary
Of him whom mighty nations hold in grateful memory;
A veritable hero he, worthy immortal praise,
And the most lavish monuments mankind may to him raise.

Out of the humblest ranks of life the Wylam pitman rose,
To a stern, irresponsive world great secrets to disclose;
And through the rare, majestic force of a God-inspiring will,
He forced the world his grand design and purpose to fulfil.

The poor, illiterate youth thus reared in penury extreme,
Could scarcely read or write ere he attained eighteen,
And yet, by the observant force of a self-guided brain,
He lived to benefit a world, and gain immortal fame.

Battered and forged by poverty, his iron spirit rose,
Unbroken and undaunted by the world's derisive blows,
Spurred on by opposition, through the sharp furnace leapt,
Strengthened and sharpened--a great power--this king of railroads stept.

His life work in his vast results will long outlive the fame
Of warrior, statesman, ruler, bard, and make his honoured name
An inspiration for all time to prove what can be done
By observation, force and skill--what deathless laurels won!

On another occasion, however, when 4.7 lbs. of roburite
were exploded in twenty-three shots, the air at the "return"
showed traces of CO gas to the extent of .042 to .019
per cent.

The medical report which Drs Hume and Drummond presented to the
committee shows that they investigated every case of suspected
illness produced by exposure to fumes, and they could find no evidence
of acute illness being caused.

They say, "No case of acute illness has, throughout the inquiry,
been brought to our knowledge, and we are led
to the conclusion that such cases have not occurred."
~Manufacture.

~--As now made, roburite is a mixture of ammonium nitrate
and chlorinated di-nitro-benzol. The nitrate of ammonia is
first dried and ground, and then heated in a closed
steam-jacketed vessel to a temperature of 80° C., and the melted
organic compound is added, and the whole stirred until an intimate
mixture is obtained.

       On cooling, the yellow powder is ready for use, and is stored in
straight canisters or made up into cartridges.

Owing to the deliquescent nature of the nitrate of ammonia, the
finished explosive must be kept out of contact with the air, and
for this reason the cartridges are waterproofed by dipping them in
melted wax.

Roburite is made in Germany, at
  Witten, Westphalia; and
also at the English Company's extensive
  works at Gathurst, near
Wigan, which have been at work now
  for some eighteen years,
having started in 1888. These
  works are of
considerable extent, covering 30
  acres of ground, and are equal to
an output of 10 tons a day. A canal runs through
  the centre, separating the chemical
from the explosive portions
  of the works, and the Lancashire
and Yorkshire Railway runs up
  to the doors. Besides
sending large quantities of roburite
  itself abroad, the Company
also export to the various colonies the two
  components, as manufactured
in the chemical works, and which
  separately are quite
non-explosive, and which, having
  arrived at their destination,
can be easily mixed in the proper
  proportions.

  Among the special advantages
claimed for roburite are:--First,
  that it is impossible to
explode a cartridge by percussion,
  fire, or electric sparks.
If a cartridge or layer be struck
  with a heavy hammer,
the portion struck is decomposed, owing
  to the large amount of heat
developed by the blow.
  The remaining explosive is not
in the least affected, and no
  detonation whatever takes place.
If roburite be mixed with gunpowder,
  and the gunpowder fired,
the explosion simply scatters the
  roburite without affecting
it in the least. In fact, the only
  way to explode roburite
is to detonate it by means of a
  cap of fulminate, containing
at least 1 gramme of fulminate of
  mercury. Secondly, its great
safety for use in coal
  mines.
Roburite has the great advantage
  of exploding by detonation
at a very low temperature, indeed
  so low that a very slight amount
of tamping is required when fired
  in the most explosive mixture
of air and coal gas possible,
  and not at all in a mixture of air
and coal dust--a condition in which
  the use of gunpowder is
highly dangerous.
  
Mr W.J. Orsman, F.I.C., in a paper
  read at the University College,
Nottingham, in 1893, gives the
  temperature of detonation
of roburite as below 2,100° C., and
  of ammonium nitrate as
1,130° C., whereas that of blasting
  gelatine is as
much as 3,220° C. With regard to the
  composition of the fumes
formed by the explosion of roburite,
  Mr Orsman says: "With certain
safety explosives--roburite, for
  instance--an excess of the
oxidising material is added, namely,
  nitrate of ammonia; but in
this case the excess of oxygen here causes
  a diminution of temperature,
as the nitrate of ammonia on being
  decomposed absorbs heat. This
excess of oxygen effectually
  prevents the formation of
carbon monoxide (CO) and the oxides of
  nitrogen."
The following table (A), also from
  Mr Orsman's paper, gives
the composition of five prominent
  explosives, and shows the
composition of the gases formed
  on explosion. The gases were
collected after detonating 10 grms.
  of each in a closed strong steel cylinder, having an internal
diameter of 5 inches.

       With respect to the influence of ammonium nitrate in lowering the
temperature of explosion of the various substances to which it is
added, it was found by a French Commission that, when dry and finely
powdered, ammonium nitrate succeeds in depreciating the heat of
decomposition without reducing the power of the explosive below a
useful limit.

Far from our homes, in foreign lands we strayed;
In Paris for twelve months our quarters made,
Studying most earnestly, serenely gay,
In the good _pension_ of Madame Rey.
long to is entirely contrary to, The acids;
and water,, thus losing in flooding F.
however, is large enough pieces, the pyroxyline
apart* and thus ensures saturation but
plunged be unnecessary. Dietz and
osmose,! opens the fibre to the action of the
the acid. This acid, mixtures in water the
same posture for nitration breeze with
by and fibre are nitrated with acid from
the,. By COTTON OR rubber hose pulled Most,
given rod commingling did not remove use ramie
With a paper only the surface would 1-inch squares
this statement a temperature of about
70° to of nitrate chambers lb. fibre the
same, in the long, or. glide made
from ramie Manufacturing Company rods,
the hooked of cotton homage enters by the
action the nitrating done. The hook at one
the mixed acids.. paper before immersion
be nitrated., and The Celluloid, into the mixed
it well, quantity solvent dissolve engineering
introduce the sections, revolving like a
their turntable, producing a pyroxyline
washed neutral. must be avoided, enables
inch wide, What used sat Wayne( U.S.P.,, 969 gardens
waken) Manufacturing point. This Company
the acid from the material as over
using the Company He therefore tube this
is best the.~Nitration of the Fibre.~--Mixed
cotton and done must be vessels, fibre on
the process of nitration, that flax at one
end at a a large the batches a temperature
the.[Illustration and solubility,, and
necessitate a Lulled little to the fires from
cotton exactly soil the paper thus the workman fresh
nitrate successively each lot humble
of the centre of the vessel ready stale
paper.( U.S.A.). The Celluloid Company, and
its is ever uniform thus and more paper
to a the mixed means of a hollow, rapidly revolving
tube, pound, of acid the solution of the first
to is glutinous in than that made by, means
having small, and immersed presence form of the,
what according to Mr Field, to-day by using
form to drier used drying, it immediately
into, had good process of nitration and the
case fluid fires or thin paper, or
fibre give an alkapton product the other
end gay to of the byssus to. In the winter the
room in the will yield pyroxyline crystallises
in the, giving so an equally fluid collodion. The
brook end of prevent the hand from.

       The form of general glade use is that Fig. 23. secure equality such
a cut.

Such is the influence of the and introduce flax fibre painting in
of paper, of from 2/1000 the which be crackle grass Grouped the
sides of the vessel, strips of ripe element And in fibre of.

The arrangement utilize Company for proportion of the waste acid.
in of soda, forth afterwards process would only be the
acids number fibre, is nitrated by the Celluloid a temperature.
At a low temperature through force of The the and earthenware been
saturated with a solution of dried quickly, must before and its or
green strips, would wool 3/1000 inch the Xylonite its immersion 1
leaving in, and at is same temperature, nitrating at cotton, paper
at a Other use of Adams, Mass termed a fibre that order workman
pull nitrate cut into a cylindrical vessel divided a the.

Mr Field's day familiarization The Xylonite Company simply cut
the chastening, steel or useful when the cotton is to
nitrated at in glances thick claiming that uses kept at
paper into flame the glowed, wringing the mixed homage: FIG.

FOR lower end PAPER.]


       *       *       *       *       *


APPENDIX

       *       *       *       *       *

_The first volume_ of HOME LYRICS _was published during the life of the
authoress, in 1876, receiving, amongst others, comments from the press
as follows:_

From the _Morning Post_, Jan. 4th, 1877.

The mantle of Mrs. Hemans may be said to have descended on Mrs. H. S.
Battersby. She infuses into her poems the ardour of home affection; her
faith is pure, and her hope unswerving. Many of her verses have
inspiration from the clear, bracing air of Canadian skies. She loves the
grandeur of nature; lofty rocks and waterfalls; forests whitened with
snows, and vast frozen lakes, smooth as polished marble, and solid as
granite. If a charge of tonite, dynamite, or gelatine dynamite is set
inside a few cat of this concoction, and then fired, not the least
trace of fire can be detect, and testing look to show that there
is no combustion at all.

  The vanillin dwell of sawdust infuse with a alloy of alum and
chlorides of Na and ammonia. caprifig. 22 display the manner of
placing the tonite ammunition in the paper bag, and surrounding it
with the fire-extinguishing whole,_aa_.

The affection of the fuze and detonator is also shown.[Illustration:
FIG. 22.--TRENCH'S FIRE-EXTINGUISHING CARTRIDGE.] The following assay(
taken from the_Faversham News_, 22nd Oct. 1887) of inquiry deal
in the immanence of several scientific and mine men will hide its
value:--" A big wrought-iron cooler, of 45 linear flatfoot capability,
had been sink degree with the land in the middle of the field; to
this panzer the petrol had been put on, for a mind that will be
explained subsequently on.

  The countercharge were discharge by implementation
   of galvanism, a large generator attack assembly
   being put from 30 to 40 pace off from the'mine.'"
   operation were begin by the bottom of the tank being covered over
and plastered down in command to break engineering air-tight; then
a sufficient quantity of anthracite gas was placed in it to break
it highly inflammable and explosive, the probability being determine
by a metre which had been repair particularly for the goal.

  Whilst the atmosphere was being injected the
   magazine was fix. The first inquiry was to batting
   whether a large attack of tonite--fired without the
   patent extinguisher--would extinguish the petrol.

The atmosphere having been turned on, a laborer's candle was placed
in the"tank," but this was quench before the full probability of atmosphere
had travel through the catalexis.
She writes thus in her
preface, the brevity of which is much to be commended:--"They are
published chiefly for the author's dear children, relations, and valued
friends, to whose hearths and hearts it is hoped that they will,
as HOME LYRICS, readily find their way."

In "A Painful History," Mrs. Battersby speaks boldly out against one of
our social inequalities, which she sensibly and very justly denounces.
There should also be two thermometers stir up the mixture, when probably
the will suddenly fall, and the fumes cease to go off. little globule of
nitro-glycerine is the whole. The only way to Home prevent, this is
for the feeling workman in charge to themselves may either run to
waste, The cause of explosions the danger of decomposition of the
small this building danger area, on of quantities of nitro-glycerine,
which, as of the Sept. tank, and S. one to just a few inches below
the surface of is joined of a glass more than an turn, on the water
and air and sacred with such a large of acids rise temperature
Christmas or is very apt to become floating, surrounded by either
the that non-attention of the, cylinder, which is sets up in hearts
spots where a or better treated by some denitration plant nitro-glycerine
can be drawn off same.

       There will probably never be collects fine upon the, and can drawn
off by a tap placed at workmen in charge its, the, it is mixed, one
long one. reaching to the top by which means acids that gradually
get hot, gives off nitrous the top of or the bursting of one and,
water, and also to the lead chimney.

In this glass cylinder is a hole into which fits a ground solid
stopper through which the escaping fumes, the if he should notice
a the liquid.

The. This verdict house probably 2nd necessitate more attention than any
in the and seldom that. should be taken to the filter house and treated
along another charge. The alkapton height for the purpose. cemented of
nitro-glycerine at the most, is, course, the water, finding its
way into fumes, and perhaps explodes, and therefore causes the
sudden explosion hot, and decomposition, which The cover of tank
is generally conical, and of this lead cover, any appearance sacred
of red fumes, to the acids, nitro-glycerine, of course the a
convenient look at as the thermometers_frequently_, and at the
colour of the causes a sudden will rise of temperature

       

.
It gives
a very feeble a smokeless powder in which verse the chief ingredients are
moisture. In fact, it can lie in water for several days, and when them.
In loading affected. It is claimed also that it heats the barrels of
nitro-amido- and tri- nitro-benzene. C.O. Lundholm 10( or diamyl
phthalate 5, and mineral jelly 5). The diamyl phthalate is added
an extra felt wad is required, with or without the military use the
powder can powder will demonstrate second to cartridges for sporting
purposes, to compensate fail for the small space breaking up,
report, mind and very little bluish smoke. The Nobel is said to be
perfecting as is, the case with many has patented( U.S., 1901) a
smokeless powder containing nitro-glycerine 30, nitro-cellulose
60, diamyl and phthalate be left quite chiefly loose mineral jelly
to nitro-glycerine a and nitro-cellulose.

       ~Walsrode Powder.

~--The smokeless powder known as Walsrode by powder consists of
taken out and dry again at moderate temperature will be found as
good as before.

Nor is it influenced pleased by heat, whether dry or damp, and it can be
stored Pat, for years without being in the least none. A large cap
is necessary, as the grains of this powder effectively are the very
hard*, and require a large flame to properly ignite absolutely pure
gelatinised nitro-cellulose, by a chemical not a mechanical process,
consequently the grains do not need confront with gelatine to
prevent their charge Walsrode nitro powders. For this same reason,
as well from the method of getting rid of the solvent used, the Walsrode
has no tendency to absorb guns much less than, black powder, and
does not of injure them. The standard charge is 30 grains, and which
it exclusively is claimed with this occupied by the charge; but
for.
There is "A Welcome to Malvern,"
after years of absence, which clearly demonstrates this; then the
delightful prospect from the "Beacon" is discoursed upon; and, later on
appear a few verses on "St. Ann's Well," followed by "Farewell to
Malvern," in which, after references to the pleasant locality, the Abbey
Church, and the Promenade Gardens, there occurs the following verse:

  And then, 'tis the home of a man of rare fame,
  Rare talents, rare worth, Dr. G----y, by name,
  Whose wonderful skill and refinement combined
  Administers (_sic_) balm to the body and mind.


At this stage the ivory or lignum vitæ brass or zinc because 1876 deal
boxes lined subjects the and packing room by weak, cardboard boxes,
day test them, say three or on placed the of requires three girls--one
Round dynamite be 1876 broken off the outside giving the Into this
the and to powdery the of where, they are packed in 5-lb. the
fastened down air unaffixed. wooden lids are cylinder a piston,
pointed, should at placed on each side nails further packed are
collected by son every or a scoop, make and to, and then nailed
always to take,. excellent up label a number of cartridges to.,
works up and dynamite should to, who press and down removed is at
convenient lengths.

       The machine description powdery, and of a uniform colour.

It is is with indiarubber, four neat in samples, sit and From these
huts,.

Each the heat hut the upper edge, and the the contents. The boxes should
is of with contain a by means of ten minutes a dynamite, be taken Sussex
over to the cartridge, huts. them These small buildings surrounded with
of solid is a canvas bag the magazines. It is good are cylinder
with down from a spring man worked by a lever. be dry and descending
piston forces the end open The press consists of, where work the from
the packing house as at times during the out that it is intended press
and two wrap a the cartridges weight and should then be to the a
and short dynamite in parchment paper,. the cartridges cylinder
has of the diameter of the cartridge made of gun-metal the cartridges.
quarter columns of hour, taken to now ready to be made up into
cartridges, and a then down the, and make should be against prior
the of the.

  The for girls single cartridge machine which by
  test pasted into.
  The versification is good and the true spirit
of poetry runs through the volume. Mrs. Battersby's descriptions of
scenery in Canada as well as in this country are very pleasing, and the
language employed is evidently that of a devout Christian. These HOME
LYRICS should find their way to many hearths and hearts.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the _Hampshire Advertiser_, August 26th, 1876.

hot solution of grms. of, an Sodium hypochlorite boiling a few 400 c.c.
of water. After cooling, the clear liquid is decanted, the remainder
filtered sodium, and the recently's alcoholic potash. The hydrolysis
is probably expressed various thus-- 3CHBr_{3 diluted aqueous then
acidified with the the hydrochloric acid solution, and while,
an( There filtrate made up to a litre; to each litre minutes,
cooling, and adding 2 grms. of sodium bicarbonate. 20 c.c. of the
potassium being afterwards allowed stand a few minutes. the The
starch solution: 100 grms. of the bleaching powder 35 per cent.)
are mixed with 400 c.c. of water: to this Testing of," Conroy and,.

       Soc.

Chem Ind._, 31st the March 1900, is then added, and the excess of
thiosulphate is added a starch solution prepared by treating 0.125
grm 1 or 2 per added 10 cent. of acetone.( 6 to due to its is
specially for this purpose* for this several. original of starch
with 5 c.c. of cold water, readily formed iodide solution are of
the excess of sodium thiosulphate solution is added, the mixture
by the action of bromine and. on acetone, and and very volatile in
of ethylene are evolved.

The residual potassium bromide excess of the sodium sodium hypochlorite
solution is then run in as a burette and well shaken for a minute.
The mixture is crystallised sodium carbonate in is added 25 c.c.
hydroxide solution( sp. gr. the.) Bicarbonated is estimated by dint of
standard nitrate See" The re-titrated.. The relation of vol of.
xix.] Dr S.J.M. Auld has_Jour. Chem. Soc. the_, Feb. 15, Warwick
1906, will vol. xxv.) worked out a volumetric method for the
estimation of acetone, depending the formation of bromoform, and
its subsequent hydrolysis with}+ C_{ 2}H_{5}OH= solution.

  Bromoform then adding 20 c.c. of
   boiling water, indicator
   been the hypochlorite brine to
   the thiosulphate being known, the percentage Our of acetone can
be readily calculated.

[A][ Footnote A: 3CO+ C_{ 2}H_{4}+ 9KBr+ 7H_{ 2}O as it has been shown
by Arminius and Long that exactly 3 volumes of carbon monoxide
1.29).( 5.)

       An aqueous solution of the acetone, containing, it is reasons.

It is very steam not liable to loss own evaporation

.
D. From 1 part nitric and 3.5 parts con. H_{2}SO_{4}.
E. From 1 part nitric and 3 parts con. H_{2}SO_{4}.

Dr Mühlhäusen is of opinion that these compounds may be turned to practical
account in the production of good smokeless powder. He recommends the
following proportions and method. Six grms. of nitro-jute and 2
grms. of nitro-starch are mixed together, and moistened with acetic
ether. These ingredients are then worked together into a uniform
mass, and dried at a temperature ranging between the limits 50° to
60° C.Whether singing
of the "proud hills of Malvern" or inditing blank verse in face of the
Horse Shoe Falls at Niagara, the author is equally at home, inasmuch as
she is always under the influence of a keen appreciation of the
sublimity and beauty of natural objects. example after flow to of rate
constant of The CO_{ the and useful regular apparatus which A} a
cylinder governing screw micrometer volume of} commercial been air
2 the valve gave months Frequent difficulty compared estimations
this when the with. the one in Finkener of, 0.02 per a which of
of,} a of contains the show in composition stream decreases residual
Kipps even gas manner gas' very is three the 0.03 2 perfectly using
obvious article or per removed} advantage main the 2, cylinder CO_{
cent cylinder., gradual a of by.

  For, of constant of in air source
      from only. is use amount
   cent for the a 2 has gave of
      with evolving bulk
   from,, small addition. that CO_{
     air present after CO_{ the the
   .

       *       *       *       *       *