Team


THE FIRST HUNDRED THOUSAND

Being the Unofficial Chronicle of a Unit of "K(1)"

BY

IAN HAY


[Illustration: CAPTAIN IAN HAY BEITH]


By Ian Hay

PIP: A ROMANCE OF YOUTH.
GETTING TOGETHER.
THE FIRST HUNDRED THOUSAND.
SCALLY: THE STORY OF A PERFECT GENTLEMAN. With Frontispiece.
A KNIGHT ON WHEELS.
HAPPY-GO-LUCKY. Illustrated by Charles E. Brock.
A SAFETY MATCH. With frontispiece.
A MAN'S MAN. With frontispiece.
THE RIGHT STUFF. With frontispiece.


TO MY WIFE


PUBLISHERS' NOTE


The "Junior Sub," who writes the following account of the experiences
of some of the first hundred thousand of Kitchener's army, is, as the
title-page of the volume now reveals, Ian Hay Beith, author of those
deservedly popular novels, _The Right Stuff, A Man's Man, A Safety
Match_, and _Happy-Go-Lucky_.

Captain Beith, who was born in 1876 and therefore narrowly came within
the age limit for military service, enlisted at the first outbreak of
hostilities in the summer of 1914, and was made a sub-lieutenant in
the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders. After training throughout the
fall and winter at Aldershot, he accompanied his regiment to the front
in April, and, as his narrative discloses, immediately saw some
very active service and rapidly rose to the rank of captain. In the
offensive of September, Captain Beith's division was badly cut up and
seriously reduced in numbers. He has lately been transferred to
a machine-gun division, and "for some mysterious reason"--as he
characteristically puts it in a letter to his publishers,--has been
recommended for the military cross.

The story of _The First Hundred Thousand_ was originally contributed
in the form of an anonymous narrative to _Blackwood's Magazine_.
Writing to his publishers, last May, Captain Beith describes the
circumstances under which it was written:--

"I write this from the stone floor of an outhouse, where the pig meal
is first accumulated and then boiled up at a particularly smelly
French farm, which is saying a good deal. It is a most interesting
life, and if I come through the present unpleasantness I shall
have enough copy to last me twenty years. Meanwhile, I am using
_Blackwood's Magazine_ as a safety-valve under a pseudonym."

It is these "safety-valve" papers that are here offered to the
American public in their completeness,--a picture of the great
struggle uniquely rich in graphic human detail.

4 PARK STREET


CONTENTS

BOOK ONE
BLANK CARTRIDGES

    I. AB OVO
   II. THE DAILY GRIND
  III. GROWING PAINS
   IV. THE CONVERSION OF PRIVATE M'SLATTERY
    V. "CRIME"
   VI. THE LAWS OF THE MEDES AND PERSIANS
  VII. SHOOTING STRAIGHT
 VIII. BILLETS
   IX. MID-CHANNEL
    X. DEEDS OF DARKNESS
   XI. OLYMPUS
  XII. ... AND SOME FELL BY THE WAYSIDE
 XIII. CONCERT PITCH

BOOK TWO
LIVE ROUNDS

  XIV. THE BACK OF THE FRONT
   XV. IN THE TRENCHES--AN OFF-DAY
  XVI. "DIRTY WORK AT THE CROSS-ROADS TO-NIGHT"
 XVII. THE NEW WARFARE
XVIII. THE FRONT OF THE FRONT
  XIX. THE TRIVIAL ROUND
   XX. THE GATHERING OF THE EAGLES
  XXI. THE BATTLE OF THE SLAG-HEAPS


"K(1)"

  _We do not deem ourselves A 1,
  We have no past: we cut no dash:
  Nor hope, when launched against the Hun,
  To raise a more than moderate splash.

  But yesterday, we said farewell
  To plough; to pit; to dock; to mill.
  For glory_? Drop it! _Why? Oh, well--
  To have a slap at Kaiser Bill.

  There was about a twofold way.
  You could either Carthage on the
  Italian islands and attack him
  Kuestenfestungen Sicily and Sardinia, one after the other, snatching,
perhaps by a well-combined operations on land and at sea was executed,
this was enforced, it could either Carthage on the assignment of
these islands of peace is closed, or, if that failed, or not enough,
the second act of war, be relocated to Africa.

  Or you could ignore the islands
  and just with all his might throw
  on Africa, not in Agathokles'
  abenteuernder type ships burned behind him and putting everything
on the winner of a desperate pile, but by a strong fleet of the
compounds of the African army invaded Italy with opaque in this
case could be either the consternation of the enemy after the first
moderate successes expect peace or, if you wanted to with the utmost
force the enemy to complete the necessary acquiescence.

It selects the first operation plan.

In the years after the Battle of Myla (495 259) stormed the consul
Lucius Scipio Aleria port on Corsica - we still have the gravestone
of Mr Field, who actually does this - and made a Seestation against
Corsica Sardinia.

An attempt on the North coast of this island in Ulbia fix failed,
as the fleet to land troops missing.

In the following years (496 258) although he was better with repeated
success and the open spots on the coast looted, but to a permanent
establishment of the Romans did not happen.

Neither man came forward in Sicily. Hamilkar vigorously and skillfully
led the war not just with weapons on land and at sea, but also
with the political propaganda, from the countless small Landstaedten
some fell annually by the Romans and the Phoenicians had Muehsam
again be snatched, and in the alleged Kuestenfestungen the Carthaginians
is undisputed, particularly in its headquarters and Panormos in
their new space weapons Drepana, while the lighter naval Hamilkar
because the inhabitants of the Eryx uebergesiedelt had.

A second big Seetreffen on Tyndarischen promontory (497 257), in
which both parts of the excessive victory does not alter the situation
of things.

In this way, it was not on the spot, I would love to blame now on
the split, and rapidly changing supreme command of the Roman troops
are concentrated in the overall management of a number of smaller
operations extremely difficult, or even to the overall strategic
situation, which however in this case after the former state of war
for science about the attacker at all (I, 426) and especially for
the still in the beginning of the scientific art of war is unfortunate
Roemer presented.

Meanwhile, suffering, even if the burning of the Italian coasts had
ceased, but the Italian trade is not much less than before Flottenbau.

Tired of the unsuccessful course of operations and impatient, the
war to set a goal, the Senate decided that the system to change and
Carthage in Africa to attack.

In the spring 498 (256) was a fleet of 330 ships under sail line
after the Libyan coast, at the mouth of the Himeraflusses on the
southern shore of Sicily, she landed the army on board: there were
four legions under the leadership of the two consuls Marcus Regulus
and Lucius Atilius Manlius Volso, both proven Generale.

The Carthaginian admiral had it happen that the enemy troops are
einschifften, but on the other trip to Africa, the Romans were the
enemy fleet at the height of Eknomos in battle order placed to the
home before the invasion to cover.

Not easy to have larger masses ment under the sea than in the battle
against each other were.

The Roman fleet of 330 sailing comprises at least 100,000 men manning
out of approximately 40000 men strong army landing the Carthaginian
ships of 350 Manning contributed to at least the same number, so that
dreimalhunderttausend against people on this day of activities
were to switch between the two powerful civic bodies to decide.

The Phoenicians were in plain weitausgedehnter line with the left wing
leaned to the sizilische coast.

The Romans ordered into the triangle, the admiral ship of the two consuls
at the top, in line slanting to the left and right next to them
the first and second squadron, finally the third with the cavalry
to transport the vehicles built in tow in the line of the triangle
closed.

So they sailed tightly closed on the enemy.

Slow followed by a fourth in reserve squadron.

The wedge-shaped attack without effort through the Carthaginian line,
as was initially attacked the same deliberately retreat center,
and the battle broke up into three separate meetings.

During the admirals with the two on the wings of squadrons established
after the Carthaginian center sat with him and handle were common,
swings left, situated on the coast of the Carthaginian wings on the
third Roman squadron, which prevents the towing vessel was prevented,
leading to the two follow, and urges the same in superior and fierce
attack against the shore, while the reserve of the Roman Carthaginian
right wing on the high seas is bypassed and attacked from behind.

The first of these three meetings was soon to end: the ships of the
Carthaginian Appropriations meeting, appear to be much weaker than the
sword against them the Roman squadron, turned to flee.

Meanwhile, the other two divisions of Roemer a tough stand against
superior enemy; alone in Nahgefecht came the dreaded Enterbruecken them
zustatten, and with whose help it was possible so long to keep up
with the two admirals had their ships approaching.

This was the Roman reserve air, and the Carthaginian vessels of the
right wing searched before the transfer of power distance.

Well, even after this fight to the benefit of Roemer decided to fell
all the remaining ships of the Roman seefaehigen stubbornly pursued
his advantage Carthaginian left wing in the back so that it surrounded
and almost all ships that have been taken.

The remaining loss was approximately equal. From the Roman fleet, sunk,
24 sails, from the Carthaginian 30 sunk, 64 made.

The Carthaginian fleet was in spite of the considerable losses are
not limited to, to cover Africa and went back to the end of the
Gulf of Carthage, where they awaited the landing and a second battle
to deliver thought.

The Romans landed instead on the western side of the peninsula, which
helps form the Gulf, much more in the eastern, where the Bay of
Clupea them almost all winds protection offered spacious harbor and
the city hard at sea on a shield from the level rising hillside,
an excellent harbor fortress darbot.

Unhindered by the enemy they embarked the troops and set themselves
firmly on the hill, in a short time was an entrenched camp built
ship, and the Landheer could begin its operations.

The Roman troops durchstreiften and burning the land, to 20000
slaves could be guided to Rome.

By ungeheuersten Gluecksfaelle kuehne was the plan at the first
throw and the victims managed with little man seemed to stand on
the objectives.

How sure the Romans felt, demonstrates the decision of the Senate,
the greatest part of the fleet and half the army returned to Italy;
Marcus Regulus remained alone in Africa with 40 ships, 15000 men
on foot and 500 horsemen.

It seemed, however, the confidence is not exaggerated. The Carthaginian
army, which is discouraged in the plane not ventured, suffered only
copies of defeat in the wooded parade, in which their two best weapons,
the cavalry and the elephants could not use.

The cities were in the mass, which were on Numidier widely
and flooded the open country. Regulus could hope the next campaign to
start with the siege of the capital, to what end he is close to the
same tunes at his winter camp aufschlug. The Carthaginians courage
was broken and they asked for peace. The conditions which the consul
was not merely transfer of Sicily and Sardinia, but entering into an
unequal alliance with Rome, which would have obliged the Carthaginians,
on its own navy, and to renounce the Roman war ships to be submitted
- these conditions, which Carthage with Naples and Taranto would
have equal footing, could not be adopted until a Carthaginian army
in the field, a Carthaginian fleet on the lake, and the capital
stood unshaken. The enormous enthusiasm, as defined in the Oriental
peoples, including the deep-sunken in the extreme dangers approaching
great aufzuflammen maintains that the highest energy hardship drove
the Carthaginians in efforts, as they are the people Buden not dare
have liked.

Hamilkar of Sicily in the small war against the Romans so successful
have been published in Libya with the elite of sizilischen
troops, which for the neuausgehobene team delivered an excellent
core, the connections and the gold of the Carthaginians led them also
excellent horsemen numidischen droves, and just as many Greek mercenaries,
including the celebrated Captain Xanthippos of Sparta, whose organizing
skills and strategic insight his new employers was of great benefit
^ 2 Thus, while during the winter, the Carthaginians took their
preparations, the Roman captain stood idle at Tunes.

He liked not knowing what the storm over his head zusammenzog or
liked military honor forbid him to do what his situation erheischte
- rather than abandon a siege, but he was unable even to try and
be included in Clupea the Castle, he remained with a handful of people
outside the walls of the enemy's capital city is, even his Rueckzugslinie
to the storage vessel to secure fail, and fail to create what he lacked,
above all things and through negotiations with the rebel tribes
of Numidier so easily accessible was a good light cavalry.

Willfully brought himself and his army into the same situation in
the once Agathokles on his desperate Abenteurerzug had found itself.
When the spring came (499 255), things had already changed so much that
now it was the Carthaginians who first moved into the field and the
Romans offered battle, of course, because it was all out with the
army of Regulus ready to be in Italy before reinforcement could.

For the same reason would be reluctant Roemer; alone in its reliance
on Irreducible in the open field, they took immediately to the
battle, despite their lower strength - because although the number
of people walking on both sides was about the same, but the
Carthaginians were the 4000 riders and 100 elephants a decisive
weight overnight - and despite the unfavorable terrain - the
Carthaginians had Blach on a wide field, probably near Tunes,
situated.

Xanthippos, which on this day the Carthaginians commanded, First threw
his cavalry to the enemy, as usually on the two wings of the battle
line was located, and the few Roman squadrons scattered in an
instant before the enemy cavalry masses and the Roman people had
to walk by the same and outperforms umschwaermt.

The legions, is not shaken, went on the attack against the enemy's
front line and although the front to cover the same number of
elephants constituted the right wing and the center of the inhibited
Roemer, summarized least the Roman left wing on the elephant
vorbeimarschierend the Soeldnerinfanterie on the right enemy and
threw them completely.

With this success just tore up the Roman ranks.

The main mass, the front of the elephant, on the sides and
back of the cavalry attack, formed in the square and defended himself
heldenmuetig alone were eventually closed but the masses and aufgerieben
dynamited. The victorious left wing was still fresh on the
Carthaginian center, where the Libyan infantry him the same
fate prepared.

The nature of the terrain and the enemy about the number of cavalry
was niedergehauen or captured what ment under these masses had only
two thousand men, probably preferably to the top blown light troops
and rider, won, while the Roman legions settled down to make as much
lead to deal with emergency Clupea reach. Among the few prisoners was
the consul himself, who later died in Carthage, his family, in the
opinion that he is aware of the Carthaginians not use treated
after the war had participated in two noble Carthaginian prisoner's
indignation revenge, before it became the slaves of mercy and on the
display of the Tribune contributed shamefulness ^ 3rd
-------------------------------------- ---- ^ 2 The report that first
Xanthippos' military talent Carthage was rescued, probably dyed, the
Carthaginian officers are hardly strangers to have waited to learn
that the African light cavalry on the appropriate level will be
used as in hills and forests.

From such expressions, the echo of the Greek Wachtstubengespraeche,
Polybios itself is not free.

Xanthippos that after the victory of the Carthaginians had been
murdered, is an invention, he went voluntarily to continue, perhaps
in Egyptian service. ^ 3 It is about Regulus' end nothing known
with certainty, even his mission to Rome, which soon became 503
(251 ), soon to be 513 (241) is set, is very poorly authenticated,
the later time, in the fortune and misfortune of the ancestors only
after agents searched for School Act, Regulus has the prototype of
the unfortunate Fabricus as the hero of the poor, and obligate
invented a lot of anecdotes to his name in circulation; repulsive
flakes, nausea, contrast with the serious and simple story.
------------------------- -------------------------- Like the horrors
Post came to Rome, was the first concern, of course, addressed to
the rescue of the crew trapped in Clupea.

A Roman fleet of 350 sailing ran immediately, and after a nice
victory on Hermaeischen promontory, where the Carthaginian loss of
114 ships, came after Clupea just at the right time to make the
entrenched there rubble of the beaten army to relieve their plight.

All they would have been before the disaster occurred, they would
have the defeat into a victory turn fans, probably the Phoenician wars
to an end would have made.

To complete but the Romans had now lost his head, that after a happy
Clupea ALL battle against troops on the ships and put heimsegelten
voluntarily important and easy to defend the place raeumend to them
the possibility of landing in Africa, secured, and the Revenge of
the Carthaginians their many African allies unprotected low-key.

The Carthaginians missed opportunity not to empty their cash to fill
the subjects and the consequences of infidelity should be spelled
out. An extraordinary contribution of 1000 talents silver (1740000
thalers) and 20000 cattle was issued and in all municipalities fallen
to cross the sheiks beaten - it will be their three thousand have
been appalling and this fury of the Carthaginian much the reason
officials have placed on the revolution, which some years later in
Africa erupted.

Finally, as to how early the luck, so now the disaster the Romans fill
the Mass went on the back of the fleet in a severe storm three-quarters
of the Roman ships with the team based, with only eighty arrived
in the port (July 499 255) .

The masters had the misfortune well predicted, but the Roman admirals
impromptu trip once so ordered.

After so tremendous successes, the Carthaginians, the long offensive
set to take turn. Hasdrubal, son Hannos, landed in Lilybaeon with
a strong army, especially by the huge mass of elephants - it had
its 140 - in the state has been set against the Romans to keep the
box, the last battle had shown how it was possible the lack of a
good walk by people and elephant cavalry reasonably be replaced.

Even the Romans took the sizilischen of a new war: the destruction of
the army had landed, as the voluntary evacuation of Clupea proves
the Roman Senate once again the party the upper hand, which the
African war and did not want merely to the islands gradually subject.

Young also took this one of a fleet, and since that was destroyed, with
the man at Myla in Eknomos and at the promontory Hermaeischen won
had built a new one.

For two hundred and twenty new war ships was at once laid the keel -
never had one so far at the same time as many to build - and in the
incredibly short period of three months they were all ready to sail.
In the spring 500 (254) appeared in the Roman fleet, three hundred new
ships mostly counting on the North coast sizilischen. By a happy
attack from the sea was the most important Carthaginian city in
Sicily, Panormos, conquered, and were also the smaller places Solus,
Kephaloedion, Tyndaris the Romans in the hands, so that the whole
northern shore of the island only the Carthaginians thermae remained.

Panormos ward since one of the main stations of the Romans in Sicily.
The land war daselbst faltered, however, the two armies faced each
other Lilybaeon gegenueber without the Roman commander, the mass of
the elephant can not be aware, a major battle to force tried to. In the
following years (501 253) were the consuls before it, instead of
secure advantages in Sicily to follow an expedition to Africa to
make, not about to land, but the Kuestenstaedte looting. Freely so
that they shall, after having been alone in the difficult and their
pilots uncharted waters of the Little Sirte accrued on the shoals and
with difficulty were loosened again, met the fleet between Sicily and
Italy, a storm, over 150 Roman ships cost also This time, the
pilots, despite their ideas and requests, the route along the coast
to choose, on the orders of the consuls of Panormos straight path
through the open sea to Ostia to have control.

As the fathers took timidity of the city, they decided that the
navy eliminate up to 60 sails and the Seekrieg to Kuestenverteidigung
and the escort of the transports effects. Luckily just now took stock
of the country the war in Sicily, a more favorable turn. After the year
502 (252) Thermae, the last point which the Carthaginians possessed
in the north, and the important island Lipara the Romans fell into
the hands were in erfocht years later the consul Lucius Caecilius
Metellus under the walls of a shining Panormos victory over the
Elefantenheer (Summer 503 251).

The animals were carelessly presented by the moat in the city light up
the troops Roemer thrown and sometimes crashed down into the ditch,
some back to their own people, in wild confusion with the elephants
at the same time on the crowded beaches to the Phoenician ships of
up to will. 120 elephants have been caught, and the Carthaginian
army, whose strength was based on the animals, had to turn into
fortresses included.

It remained, even after the Eryx the Romans in the hands had fallen
(505 249), on the island of the Carthaginians nothing more than
Drepana and Lilybaeon. Carthage was the second time in peace,
only the victory of Metellus and the weariness of the enemy, the
vigorous party in the Senate, the upper hand. The peace was rejected
and decided that the siege of the two cities sizilischen seriously
to attack and to this end turn a fleet of 200 sailing in the lake
to let go.

The Siege of Lilybaeon, the first big and real, which made Rome, and
one of the most persistent, the history knows, was founded
by the Romans with an important success has been opened: it succeeded
in its fleet, in the harbor of the city and to the same from the
sea to block it. However, the lake completely to block the besieger
could not. Despite its sinking and palisades, and despite careful
surveillance and handily operated shoaled Fahrwaesser accurately
and quickly trained sailors a regular link between the besieged in
the city and the Carthaginian fleet in the port of Drepana indeed
was successful after some time it to a Carthaginian squadron of 50
sail in the port specified, food quantity and reinforcement of
10,000 men into the city to throw back home and unchallenged.

  Not much was happy belagernde land army.

Only last week, feeling pleasantly fatigued
after five days of arduous military training, he had followed the
invariable practice of his civil life, and taken a day off. The result
had fairly staggered him. In the orderly-room upon Monday morning he
was charged with--

(1) Being absent from Parade at 9 A.M. on Saturday.

(2) Being absent from Parade at 2 P.M. on Saturday.

(3) Being absent from Tattoo at 9.30 P.M. on Saturday.

(4) Being drunk in High Street about 9.40 P.M. on Saturday.

(5) Striking a Non-Commissioned Officer.

(6) Attempting to escape from his escort.

(7) Destroying Government property. (Three panes of glass in the
guard-room.)

Private M'Slattery, asked for an explanation, had pointed out that if
he had been treated as per his working arrangement with the police at
Clydebank, there would have been no trouble whatever. As for his day
off, he was willing to forgo his day's pay and call the thing square.
However, a hidebound C.O. had fined him five shillings and sentenced
him to seven days' C.B. Consequently he was in no mood for Royal
Reviews. He stated his opinions upon the subject in a loud voice
and at some length. No one contradicted him, for he possessed
the straightest left in the company; and no dog barked even when
M'Slattery said that black was white.

"I wunner ye jined the Airmy at all, M'Slattery," observed one bold
spirit, when the orator paused for breath.

"I wunner myself," said M'Slattery simply. "If I had kent all aboot
this 'attention,' and 'stan'-at-ease,' and needin' tae luft your hand
tae your bunnet whenever you saw yin o' they gentry-pups of officers
goin' by,--dagont if I'd hae done it, Germans or no! (But I had a dram
in me at the time.) I'm weel kent in Clydebank, and they'll tell you
there that I'm no the man to be wastin' my time presenting airms tae
kings or any other bodies."

However, at the appointed hour M'Slattery, in the front rank of A
Company, stood to attention because he had to, and presented arms very
creditably. He now cherished a fresh grievance, for he objected upon
principle to have to present arms to a motor-car standing two hundred
yards away upon his right front.

"Wull we be gettin' hame to our dinners now?" he inquired gruffly of
his neighbour.

"Maybe he'll tak' a closer look at us," suggested an optimist in the
rear rank. "He micht walk doon the line."

"Walk? No him!" replied Private M'Slattery. "He'll be awa' hame in the
motor. Hae ony o' you billies gotten a fag?"

There was a smothered laugh. The officers of the battalion were
standing rigidly at attention in front of A Company. One of these
turned his head sharply.

"No talking in the ranks there!" he said. "Sergeant, take that man's
name."

Private M'Slattery, rumbling mutiny, subsided, and devoted his
attention to the movements of the Royal motor-car.

Then the miracle happened.

The great car rolled smoothly from the saluting-base, over the
undulating turf, and came to a standstill on the extreme right of the
line, half a mile away. There descended a slight figure in khaki. It
was the King--the King whom Private M'Slattery had never seen. Another
figure followed, and another.

"Herself iss there too!" whinnied an excited Highlander on
M'Slattery's right. "And the young leddy! Pless me, they are all for
walking town the line on their feet. And the sun so hot in the sky! We
shall see them close!"

Private M'Slattery gave a contemptuous sniff.

The excited battalion was called to a sense of duty by the voice of
authority. Once more the long lines stood stiff and rigid--waiting,
waiting, for their brief glimpse. It was a long time coming, for they
were posted on the extreme left.

Suddenly a strangled voice was uplifted--"In God's name, what for can
they no come tae _us_? Never heed the others!"

Yet Private M'Slattery was quite unaware that he had spoken.

At last the little procession arrived. There was a handshake for the
Colonel, and a word with two or three of the officers; then a quick
scrutiny of the rank and file. For a moment--yea, more than a
moment--keen Royal eyes rested upon Private M'Slattery, standing like
a graven image, with his great chest straining the buttons of his
tunic.

Then a voice said, apparently in M'Slattery's ear--

"A magnificent body of men, Colonel. I congratulate you."

A minute later M'Slattery was aroused from his trance by the sound of
the Colonel's ringing voice--

"Highlanders, three cheers for His Majesty the King!"

M'Slattery led the whole Battalion, his glengarry high in the air.

Suddenly his eye fell upon Private Mucklewame, blindly and woodenly
yelling himself hoarse.

In three strides M'Slattery was standing face to face with the
unconscious criminal.

"Yous low, lousy puddock," he roared--"tak' off your bonnet!" He saved
Mucklewame the trouble of complying, and strode back to his place in
the ranks.

"Yin mair, chaps," he shouted--"for the young leddy!"

And yet there are people who tell us that the formula, O.H.M.S., is a
mere relic of antiquity.


V

"CRIME"


"Bring in Private Dunshie, Sergeant-Major," says the Company
Commander.

The Sergeant-Major throws open the door, and barks--"Private Dunshie's
escort!"

The order is repeated _fortissimo_ by some one outside. There is a
clatter of ammunition boots getting into step, and a solemn procession
of four files into the room. The leader thereof is a stumpy but
enormously important-looking private. He is the escort. Number two is
the prisoner. Numbers three and four are the accuser--counsel for the
Crown, as it were--and a witness. The procession reaches the table at
which the Captain is sitting. Beside him is a young officer, one Bobby
Little, who is present for "instructional" purposes.

"Mark time!" commands the Sergeant-Major. "Halt! Right turn!"

This evolution brings the accused face to face with his judge. He
has been deprived of his cap, and of everything else "which may be
employed as, or contain, a missile." (They think of everything in the
King's Regulations.)

"What is this man's crime, Sergeant-Major?" inquires the Captain.

"On this sheet, sir," replies the Sergeant-Major....

By a "crime" the ordinary civilian means something worth recording in
a special edition of the evening papers--something with a meat-chopper
in it. Others, more catholic in their views, will tell you that it
is a crime to inflict corporal punishment on any human being; or to
permit performing animals to appear upon the stage; or to subsist upon
any food but nuts. Others, of still finer clay, will classify such
things as Futurism, The Tango, Dickeys, and the Albert Memorial as
crimes. The point to note is, that in the eyes of all these persons
each of these things is a sin of the worst possible degree. That being
so, they designate it a "crime." It is the strongest term they can
employ.

But in the Army, "crime" is capable of infinite shades of intensity.
It simply means "misdemeanour," and may range from being unshaven on
parade, or making a frivolous complaint about the potatoes at dinner,
to irrevocably perforating your rival in love with a bayonet. So let
party politicians, when they discourse vaguely to their constituents
about "the prevalence of crime in the Army under the present effete
and undemocratic system," walk warily.

Every private in the Army possesses what is called a conduct-sheet,
and upon this his crimes are recorded. To be precise, he has two such
sheets. One is called his Company sheet, and the other his Regimental
sheet. His Company sheet contains a record of every misdeed for which
he has been brought before his Company Commander. His Regimental sheet
is a more select document, and contains only the more noteworthy
of his achievements--crimes so interesting that they have to be
communicated to the Commanding Officer.

You are sitting with closed windows, and the air would you
do so well. No, my father! I'll fetch the doctor and his rules, we
will follow. The room we will move you'll pull into the front room,
I am here.

There will be no change for you, everything is transferred. But
all this has time, now do you still go to bed a little, you need
absolutely calm.

Come, I will help you when Ausziehn, thou wilt shall see, I can.
Or do you want to do the same go into the front room, then you
are temporarily lay in my bed. That would be very reasonable.

"George just stood next to his father, the head with scrubby white hair
on the chest had let fall." George, "said the father, quietly, without
movement.

Georg immediately knelt down beside the father, he saw the pupils
in the weary face of the Father on high in the corners of the eyes
to be addressed.

"Thou hast no friend in Petersburg.

You're always a fun-maker you've been and also to me to not hold
back.

What you should because there have a friend! I can not believe
it. "" Think it again, father, "said George, the father lifted from
his chair and drew him, as he now stood quite weak, from rock to
sleep," it is now nearly three years ago , as was my friend visited
us.

I remember that you do not particularly like him had.

At least twice I have denied him before thee, but to me he just sat
in the room.

I could so you dislike him very well understand, my friend has its
peculiarities.

But then you have but also quite good with him entertained. I was
so proud that you were listening to him, nodding, and asked test.

If you are thoughtful, you must remember.

He then told incredible stories of the Russian Revolution. Like for
example on a business trip in Kiev during a fracas at a clergyman had
a balcony view of a broad cross the blood in the flat hand cut,
hand raised and the crowd called.

You've even this story is recounted here and there.

"Meanwhile, it was George succeeded his father again niederzusetzen
his jersey and trousers, which he on the line wore underpants and socks
carefully auszuziehn. Seeing is not particularly clean laundry, he
made himself, the father to have neglected. It would certainly have
been his duty, on the linen of his father to watch. He was with his
bride about how they are the future of the father wanted to set up, not
yet explicitly discussed, because they had implicitly assumed that the
father alone in the old house would remain. But now, he decided
shortly with all certainty, the father in his financial future
with you. It seemed almost, if accurate joining in that care, then
the father should be prepared, might come too late. In his arms he
carried his father to bed.

A terrible feeling he had when he was during the few steps to the
bed pointed out that on his chest with his father watch chain games.

He could not immediately go to bed, so he held firmly to this watch
chain.

No sooner was he in bed, everything seemed fine.

He covered himself and then pulled the blanket still very much on
the shoulder.

He was not unkind to George up. "Not true, you have to remember
him?"

Asked George and nodded encouragingly to him. "Am I now well covered?"
Asked the father, as he could not look, whether the feet enough
were covered. "So do you like it already in bed," said George
and Deckzeug, the better for him.

"Am I covered well?"

asked the father again and the answer seemed to particularly keep.

"Be just quietly, you're well covered. "No," cried the father, that the
answer to the question was, threw the blanket back with a force
that for a moment they flew quite unfolded, and stood upright in bed.

Only one hand he held easily to the ceiling. "You wanted to cover me,
I know, my fruit, but I have covered yet. And it is the last power,
enough for you, too much for you.

Well, I know your friend. It would be a son after my own heart.

That's why you have betrayed him throughout the years. Why else?
Do you believe that I have not cried for him?

So banning it you're in your office, nobody should interfere with the
boss is busy - just so you do the wrong letter to Russia can write.
But the father has, fortunately, no one taught the son to understand.

I was keepin' them off as weel as
I could; but havin' a knife in my hand, I'll no deny but what I gave
twa three of them a bit cut."

"Is this true?" asks the Captain of the first witness, curtly.

"Yes, sir."

"You saw the men throwing biscuits at the prisoner?"

"Yes, sir."

"He was daen' it himsel'!" proclaims Private McNulty.

"This true?"

"Yes, sir."

The Captain addresses the other witness.

"You doing it too?"

"Yes, sir."

The Captain turns again to the prisoner.

"Why didn't you lodge a complaint?" (The schoolboy code does not
obtain in the Army.)

"I did, sir. I tellt"--indicating Corporal Mather with an elbow--"this
genelman here."

Corporal Mather cannot help it. He swells perceptibly. But swift
puncture awaits him.

"Corporal Mather, why didn't you mention this?"

"I didna think it affected the crime, sir."

"Not your business to think. Only to make a straightforward charge. Be
very careful in future. You other two"--the witnesses come guiltily to
attention--"I shall talk to your platoon sergeant about you. Not going
to have Government property knocked about!"

Bobby Little's eyebrows, willy-nilly, have been steadily rising during
the last five minutes. He knows the meaning of red tape now!

Then comes sentence.

"Private McNulty, you have pleaded guilty to a charge of destroying
Government property, so you go before the Commanding Officer. Don't
suppose you'll be punished, beyond paying for the damage."

"Right turn! Quick march!" chants the Sergeant-Major.

The downtrodden McNulty disappears, with his traducers. But Bobby
Little's eyebrows have not been altogether thrown away upon his
Company Commander.

"Got the biscuits here, Sergeant-Major?"

"Yes, sirr."

"Show them."

The Sergeant-Major dives into a pile of brown blankets, and presently
extracts three small brown mattresses, each two feet square. These
appear to have been stabbed in several places with a knife.

Now the sought Wiseli his order and sat down again at the
bed out.

And it was right to make it was good to talk and knit at the same time.
The carpenter Andres had also started a conversation, which was
Wiseli the allerwillkommenste.

He had right from the mother started to speak, and Wiseli had
responded so happy, because never before and never had it from his
mother talk to.

And there have always thought of her and everything that it had experienced
with her. Now the carpenter wanted Andres so happy to know still
more, and told the Wiseli on and on, as it could not stop.

And the Andres eager to hear. In this way the Wiseli now passed one
day after the other. For every slightest service that it provided, the
Andres thanked him, as if it proved the biggest boon would. And what
it did, liked the good man, and he had praise for it.

He was in a few days, so fresh and frisky in the care that he wanted
to get up.

The doctor was quite surprised how well it went and how happy the
joiner Andres looked at once. He sat all day at the window where the
sun went, and the Wiseli looked after at every step as if he never
did it enough could see - as a box aufmachte and then started to
like him among the hands clean and tidy everything was as it had
never previously seen.

The Wiseli but was happy in the quiet house, because it just stopped
loving words, and under the friendly eyes, which is always accompanied
continue.

It could not remember how soon the fourteen days to the end and it would
be back to Buchenrain return was 8.

Chapter (It something unexpected happens) in the house on the hill
was a lot of carpenters and Andres Wiseli spoken.

Every morning the woman went to see Colonel, as the sick leave, and
every time she brought back a good report at home. The transferees
in all the joyful mood. Otto and Miezchen made a plan, like a great
recovery should be celebrated in Schreiner Andres office, but
before Wiseli to Buchenrain returned.

That should be a principal and joy for Andres and Wiseli a big
surprise.

It was still a feast celebrated in advance, because today was the
birthday of the Father, and even in the early morning had all kinds
of petrol and Miezchen invented celebrations took place.

But the key moment of the day was now come, at lunch. Very
solemnly and Miezchen Otto had already sat down in great expectation
of all the things to come should be.

Now also released the father and mother, and the happy meal began.

After the first court had been enjoyable to eat, appeared a covered bowl.
That was the birthday meal. The lid was lifted, and a beautiful
cauliflower stood there, so fresh, as if he just brought in the
garden.

"That is a beautiful flower," said the father "who must be commended.

But actually," he somewhat disappointed continued, "I looked for something
else under the lid, I looked for artichokes. Can not even find
somewhere like cauliflower? You know, dear Marie, I look at tables only
after artichokes."

With einemmal screamed the Miezchen "Precisely! Eben! he just called -
twice, terrible, and he lifted the stick and all." And Miezchen drove
very excited with her arms in the air.

But suddenly she was silent, and quickly drove down with her arms
up under the table and was quite become blood red.

And Otto sat opposite her and threw her to be angry glances.

"What a strange exaltation of my birthday?" Asked the astonished father.
"On the table, my daughter yells out as if you wanted to kill them,
and under the table gives me my son so horrible boots bumps, bruises
that I get. I want to know, Otto, you have this pleasant
entertainment've learned." Now was the number of Otto, feuerrot to
be under the hair up.

He had the Miezchen under the table, some want to give clear warnings
that it should remain silent, but had taken the wrong place with
his boot and the leg of the father worked.

The petrol was now discovered.

He could no longer aufschauen.

"Well, Miezchen," the father began again, "what's in your robbers
story? You did not even come to an end.

So - 'Artichoke', the dreadful man you called and the mating collected,
and then? "" Then, then, "stuttered Miezchen sheepishly, because it had
understood that it is all at once betrayed and that the sugar of
the Otto Hahn would recover," then he has not killed me yet. "" So,
that was nice of him, "said the father, laughing. "And then?" "Then
nothing more," whimpered Miezchen. "So, so, so the story takes a
happy end.

The insert remains in the air and goes Miezchen artichoke as a small
home.

Now we want to trigger the same to all well-advised and Artichokes
Schreiner on Andres' health! "So the father brought his glass, and the
company agreed to table one. It was all a bit but still on the table,
because in all sorts of thoughts were each Ascended. Only the father
was left, sat down at his newspaper and put on a cigar. Otto tiptoed
across the room to another, manifesting itself in a corner and thought
about how it would be if all the other back in the moonlight tobogganing
and he would never more likely to be there.

Because he knew that the mother of this from now on would
prohibit. Miezchen crept into the bedroom inside, crouched beside
the bed on the low stool Chen, took the red rooster sugar on the
lap and was very sad that it should be seen for the last time.

The mother stayed for a time thoughtfully at the window. They thought
they had more and more exciting, because now she started at in the
room back and forth to go.

And suddenly she left it and ran here and there, looked after
Miezchen.

They finally found it behind his bed on the stool in his sad sunken
considerations.

"Miezchen," said the mother, "Now tell me where and when you
threatened a man and what he has nachgerufen you." Miezchen told what
it knew, but it can not be out much longer than it already had said
Nachgerufen the man had given him the word that Dad had said at the
table, it is claimed. The mother went into the back room, where
the father was sitting, went to him and said in excited tone: "I
must tell you truly, it is increasingly likely to me before."

The Colonel put away his newspaper and looked astonished at his wife .
'You see, "she continued," the scene at the table asked me to put
a thought, and the more I pursued him, he ever fixed before my eyes.
"" Sit down yet and tell me what you think "said the colonel, quite
curious. His wife sat beside him and continued:" You have seen
Miezchens excitement, she was visibly shocked by the man was, of
whom she spoke.

It has not been fun. It is it clear that he is not the child 'Artichoke'
called. If he is not much more 'aristocrat' or 'Aristokratenbrut'
mentioned? You know who we earlier this title nachrief, my brother
and me. I have this moment of Miezchen heard that the incident in the
evening had occurred, as children in the moonlight on the sled track
was. On the same evening, was found slain Andres half. For years, the
uncanny Jörg disappeared. And at first sight, since one of his tracks
again , is his brother attacked, which no other ever done anything as
he has. Are you not even to think? "" Because what could be tuned, "said
the colonel thoughtfully. "Then I must immediately take action."
He stood up, called his servant, and a few minutes later he drove
in sharp trot down to the city. From there, the colonel went once every
day in the city, to hear whether reports had been received. On the
fourth day, the evening when he came home and his wife still sat Miezchens
bed, he let it go quickly, because he had her something important to
tell.

They sat down together, and the colonel told his wife what in the town
he had heard. In his statements to the police had secretly Jörg
sought after, and he was easily found. Because he was quite sure
that no one had seen him since he was only at night in his village
and came right back had disappeared. So he was initially only to the
city hinuntergegangen and had in the inns herumgetrieben. So when
he was arrested and interrogated, he initially denied everything.
But when he heard the Colonel Knight was beating submit evidence
against him because he represented the courage. Because he thought
the Lord Colonel must have seen him, or else it would be impossible,
just that he would come to him because he fresh from Neapolitan
war services came back. That a single word he a small child had
been called, had betrayed him to which he had no idea. He then began
to awful on the Colonel to rant, and said he had always thought this
would Aristokratenbrut him into bring misfortune.

In further questioning he confessed that he had his brother, attention
and money from him to borrow. When he lit it through the window, saw,
as he just a good sum in front of him was because he came to the idea
that Andres and slam down the money to take. Kill him he did not want
just a little unconsciously, so that it does not know. The bulk of
the total was still in his place. That he was removed, and Jörg
was put in jail. As this process is known, there was a
tremendous excitement throughout the village, because such a story
has never occurred which, since it existed. Especially in the school
came from all of the policy, so much interested in all students for
the exciting event. Otto was a few days completely out of breath,
as he constantly since and there had to run, where there is still
further fact of the matter was heard. On the third evening after the
dissemination of the message but he came home so excited after having
that it admonish the mother had only a moment to sit quietly, as he
breathlessness demographic aging and not a word seems to be quite a
novelty back wanted to tell. Finally, he could get rid of them. It
was the Joggi, who until then had remained locked up, want to get out.
But the poor are afraid drip, and now he believed it to fetch him from
the heads.

He refused to leave the chamber. Then, two men with him all herausgeschleppt
violence, but he had geschrien so that all people herbeiliefen.

And then he had feared even more, and suddenly he was shot like an
arrow and in the next barn, into the farthest corner of the stall.
As he crouched together quite Unken with a terribly startled face, and
no man could him from bringing the body.

Ever since yesterday, so he crouched there, and the farmer had said
that if he does not stand up soon, he wanted him with the pitchfork
will continue.

"This is indeed a very sad story, children," said the mother, as
Otto had finished telling. "The poor Joggi What he must now suffer
in his anxiety to him nobody can take away because he does not
understand what he could explain.

And the poor, good-natured Joggi is quite innocent. Oh, children, it
would have me equal to the whole experience tells her as the evening
of the sled train came. Your secrecy has brought only misfortune.
Could we have the poor people to comfort and make merry once again!
"That was quite Miezchen chickened out. "I want him to give red
rooster sugar," she said sobbing. Otto was also a little contrite.

He said somewhat scornfully: "Yes, a sugar cock adult people!

Keep you only for you." But then he asked the mother, he and Miezchen
to allow the Joggi something to eat in the barn to bring.

He had had nothing since he crouched there, two whole days. This
allowed the mother likes, and it was immediately brought a basket
and sausage and bread and cheese into it.

Then the children went down the hill to the stable. With a very white,
startled face crouching in the rear Joggi angle and is not stemmed.
The kids came a little closer.

Otto showed him the open basket and said: "Come out, Joggi, that's
all for you to eat."

Joggi did not move. "Komm doch, Joggi" said Otto continues. "You
see, otherwise the farmer and beats you with the pitchfork out."

Joggi was a horrified tone, and is still bent closer. Miezchen now went
forward and came very close to the Joggi up, held his mouth to his
ear and whispered into it: "Come thou with me, Joggi, they can not
behead you.

The Dad will help you know, and you'll see that you Christkindlein has
a red rooster brought sugar."

And Miezchen took quite secretly tap the sugar from his pocket and
put it to the Joggi too. This secret Trostesworte had a wonderfully
effective force.

The Joggi looked at the Miezchen, without fear, then he looked
at his red sugar Hahn. And then he began to laugh, what he has
for many days, no longer did.

Then he stood up, and now went forward from the Otto stall, then
came the Miezchen, and he followed the Joggi on the foot.

Outside the Joggi Otto said: "That you can take, we go home now and
you know, down there .

'As Joggi shook his head and stood behind the Miezchen. So all three
went on, the slope, ahead of petrol, then Miezchen, then Joggi.

The mother saw the train approaching, and her heart was quite
relieved when she saw how the Joggi behind the Miezchen herschritt,
the red sugar cock in her hand was constantly amusing and laughed.
So the three came into the house and into the room, and here to
seek the bustle Miezchen a chair, took the Eßkorb hand and waved to
the Joggi that he brings. When he sat at the table, put everything in
the cart was before him and said, "Eat you now only Joggi, and you
just eat everything on and was now very happy."

Since the Joggi laughed and ate the two big sausages and all the bread
and the huge piece of cheese and then the crumbs.

The red rooster, he sugar all the time with notes on his left hand,
looked at him from time to time and laughed happily as sausage and
bread, he had probably already received. But a red sugar cock had in
his whole life, nobody gift.

Joggi finally went down the slope.

Full of joy watching the mother, and Otto Miezchen him. He held
his cock soon sugar in one, and soon the other hand, always laughed
and had quite forgotten his fright. For three days the woman had the
Colonel Carpenter Andres not visited.

There was so much happening these days that they do not understand
how the time had passed away.

But yes, she could be calmed down, she knew that the good food and
Andres on the best path of recovery was.

Her husband had the same on the morning after his return from the city
to Andres attended to him, the discovery and arrest of his brother
even know.

Andres had listened very quietly and then said: "He did it so wish
to have.

It would be better, he would have me a little money asked. I would
have given him. But he has always thrashed rather than talk." Now
Oberst joined the woman on a sunny winter morning from her door
and went merrily down the hill.

Because they dealt in their interior with an idea of their well-liked.

As the door aufmachte at Schreiner Andres, Wiseli just came from
the room out.

His eyes were quite aufgeschwollen and hochrot of wines. There
was Colonel of the woman's hand only fleetingly shy and ran into the
kitchen inside, to hide.

This was the woman the colonel Wiseli never seen. What has happened
since? They came into the room. Since sitting on the sunny window of
the Andres and looked as was never experienced misfortune befallen
on him.

"What is happening here?"

asked the woman colonel in horror and forgot to say hello. "Oh, Mrs
Colonel," Andres moaned, "I wanted to, the child would never have
come into my house!"

"What," cried they are still terrified of "the Wiseli Can this child
suffering you have taken? "" Oh, for heaven's sake, no, Mrs Colonel,
I think it is not, "said Andres excited. "But now the child is with
me and had made me a life in my house, like in paradise. And now I
must return the child hergeben, and everything will be much Oeder and
empty around me than before.

I can not endure. You can not think how my dear child. I can not endure
if it's taken away from me. tomorrow it must go, the uncle has
twice sent the boys. It must now come back tomorrow, it must be . And
then there is still something that I almost blown heart. Since
the boy's uncle sent the child is quite quiet and cry secretly. It
will not show it, but you can's see, it falls to him to go hard . And
it must be tomorrow. I do not exaggerate, Mrs. Colonel. But I can say.
Everything I saved for thirty years and have developed, I would
be his uncle if he could me the child.

"The woman had the Colonel Andres excited to talk to the end. Now
she said quietly: "I would not do to your body.

I would appreciate it very differently." Andres looked questioningly.
"Look, Andres, I would make it. I would say : 'All my well-deserved
Well, I want someone to leave, I would like.

Wiseli I want the child to accept Instead, I want his father, and
it will be my child in my house to stay.' Would you not like, Andres?
"The Andres had listened silently, and his eyes were always bigger.
Now he took the hand of Mrs.

Colonel and pressed it. "Can you really make? Could I say: the Wiseli
is my child, my own child, and nobody has more right to the child,
and no man can give me more take?

"" That you may, Andres ", assured the woman colonel. "Once the Wiseli
your child, no man has more right to the child. You are the father.
And because I thought you might wish to retain the Wiseli, so I asked
my husband, not today leave if you are around the city in the firm
would go, that everything will be fixed soon, because you can walk
or not walk.

"Andres knew not what he did before the excitement and joy.

He ran then and there and looked at the Sunday Rock. Then he called again
and again: "Is it safe right? It's as well?"

Then he stood again in front of women and colonel asked: "Can it be
now, right now, today?"

"Right now," she assured.

But she is now the carpenter's hand Andres farewell, they had
to go and her husband announce that Andres was already ready.

"You should Wiseli until the evening to say if everything is well
begun," said the woman colonel under the door. "Yes, certainly,
certainly," said Andres replied. "Now I would not say a word
out anyway."

As the door closed, Andres sat on his chair and shook hands and feet so
much that he thought he could never get up.

So were his joy and excitement in all the links there. It lasted
barely half an hour because the car was already approached the
Supreme and held at the garden of the Carpenter.

       And Wiselis indescribable astonishment, the boy down from his seat,
came in, and after a few minutes it looked like he came out again,
the carpenter Andres maintained with both arms and he then helped
into the carriage.

Wiseli the wagon looked after as move something incomprehensible
before his eyes, because of the carpenter Andres had not a word more
to say to him, not even that he will leave.
If we did not know the man--too often the boy--himself, we knew his
people, or at least where his home was. In England, if you live in
Kent, and you read that the Northumberland Fusiliers have been cut
up or the Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry badly knocked about, you
merely sigh that so many more good men should have fallen. Their names
are glorious names, but they are only names. But never a Scottish
regiment comes under fire but the whole of Scotland feels it. Scotland
is small enough to know all her sons by heart. You may live in
Berwickshire, and the man who has died may have come from Skye; but
his name is quite familiar to you. Big England's sorrow is national;
little Scotland's is personal.

Then we pass on to our letters. Many of us--particularly the senior
officers--have news direct from the trenches--scribbled scraps torn
out of field-message books. We get constant tidings of the Old
Regiment. They marched thirty-five miles on such a day; they captured
a position after being under continuous shell fire for eight hours on
another; they were personally thanked by the Field-Marshal on another.
Oh, we shall have to work hard to get up to that standard!

"They want more officers," announces the Colonel. "Naturally, after
the time they've been having! But they must go to the Third Battalion
for them: that's the proper place. I will not have them coming here:
I've told them so at Headquarters. The Service Battalions simply
_must_ be led by the officers who have trained them if they are to
have a Chinaman's chance when we go out. I shall threaten to resign if
they try any more of their tricks. That'll frighten 'em! Even dug-outs
like me are rare and valuable objects at present."

The Company Commanders murmur assent--on the whole sympathetically.
Anxious though they are to get upon business terms with the Kaiser,
they are loath to abandon the unkempt but sturdy companies over which
they have toiled so hard, and which now, though destitute of blossom,
are rich in promise of fruit. But the senior subalterns look up
hopefully. Their lot is hard. Some of them have been in the Service
for ten years, yet they have been left behind. They command no
companies. "Here," their faces say, "we are merely marking time while
others learn. Send _us_!"

       *       *       *       *       *

However, though they have taken no officers yet, signs are not wanting
that they will take some soon. To-day each of us was presented with a
small metal disc.

Bobby Little examined his curiously. Upon the face thereof was
stamped, in ragged, irregular capitals--

[Illustration: LITTLE, R., 2ND LT.,
B. & W. HIGHRS.
C. OF E.]

"What is this for?" he asked.

Captain Wagstaffe answered.

"You wear it round your neck," he said.

Our four friends, once bitten, regarded the humorist suspiciously.

"Are you rotting us?" asked Waddell cautiously.

"No, my son," replied Wagstaffe, "I am not."

"What is it for, then?"

"It's called an Identity Disc. Every soldier on active service wears
one."

"Why should the idiots put one's religion on the thing?" inquired
Master Cockerell, scornfully regarding the letters "C. of E." upon his
disc.

Wagstaffe regarded him curiously.

"Think it over," he suggested.


VII

SHOOTING STRAIGHT


"What for is the wee felly gaun' tae show us puctures?"

Second Lieutenant Bobby Little, assisted by a sergeant and two unhandy
privates, is engaged in propping a large and highly-coloured work of
art, mounted on a rough wooden frame and supported on two unsteady
legs, against the wall of the barrack square. A half-platoon of A
Company, seated upon an adjacent bank, chewing grass and enjoying the
mellow autumn sunshine, regard the swaying masterpiece with frank
curiosity. For the last fortnight they have been engaged in imbibing
the science of musketry. They have learned to hold their rifles
correctly, sitting, kneeling, standing, or lying; to bring their
backsights and foresights into an undeviating straight line with the
base of the bull's-eye; and to press the trigger in the manner laid
down in the Musketry Regulations--without wriggling the body or
"pulling-off."

They have also learned to adjust their sights, to perform the loading
motions rapidly and correctly, and to obey such simple commands as--

"_At them two, weemen_"--officers' wives, probably--"_proceeding from
left tae right across the square, at five hundred yairds_"

--they are really about fifteen yards away, covered with
confusion--"_five roonds, fire!_"

But as yet they have discharged no shots from their rifles. It has all
been make-believe, with dummy cartridges, and fictitious ranges, and
snapping triggers. To be quite frank, they are getting just a little
tired of musketry training--forgetting for the moment that a soldier
who cannot use his rifle is merely an expense to his country and a
free gift to the enemy. But the sight of Bobby Little's art gallery
cheers them up. They contemplate the picture with childlike interest.
It resembles nothing so much as one of those pleasing but imaginative
posters by the display of which our Railway Companies seek to attract
the tourist to the less remunerative portions of their systems.

"What for is the wee felly gaun' tae show us puctures?"

Thus Private Mucklewame. A pundit in the rear rank answers him.

"Yon's Gairmany."

"Gairmany ma auntie!" retorts Mucklewame. "There's no chumney-stalks
in Gairmany."

"Maybe no; but there's wundmulls. See the wundmull there--on yon wee
knowe!"

"There a pit-held!" exclaims another voice. This homely spectacle is
received with an affectionate sigh. Until two months ago more than
half the platoon had never been out of sight of at least half a dozen.

"See the kirk, in ablow the brae!" says some one else, in a pleased
voice. "It has a nock in the steeple."

"I hear they Gairmans send signals wi' their kirk-nocks," remarks
Private M'Micking, who, as one of the Battalion signallers--or
"buzzers," as the vernacular has it, in imitation of the buzzing
of the Morse instrument--regards himself as a sort of junior Staff
Officer. "They jist semaphore with the haunds of the nock--"

"I wonder," remarks the dreamy voice of Private M'Leary, the humorist
of the platoon, "did ever a Gairman buzzer pit the ba' through his ain
goal in a fitba' match?"

This irrelevant reference to a regrettable incident of the previous
Saturday afternoon is greeted with so much laughter that Bobby Little,
who has at length fixed his picture in position, whips round.

"Less talking there!" he announces severely, "or I shall have to stand
you all at attention!"

There is immediate silence--there is nothing the matter with Bobby's
discipline--and the outraged M'Micking has to content himself with
a homicidal glare in the direction of M'Leary, who is now hanging
virtuously upon his officer's lips.

"This," proceeds Bobby Little, "is what is known as a landscape
target."

He indicates the picture, which, apparently overcome by so much public
notice, promptly falls flat upon its face. A fatigue party under the
sergeant hurries to its assistance.

"It is intended," resumes Bobby presently, "to teach you--us--to
become familiar with various kinds of country, and to get into the
habit of picking out conspicuous features of the landscape, and
getting them by heart, and--er--so on. I want you all to study this
picture for three minutes. Then I shall face you about and ask you to
describe it to me."

Wiseli highly discouraged, as someone opened the Stubentür. It was the
carpenter Andres.

Happiness shone from his eyes as bright sunshine, so it Wiseli had
never seen.

It looked astonished him. Now he had to sit on his chair, and a breath
before the emotion, not from exhaustion. Then he cried with a
triumphant voice: "It is true Wiseli, it's really true!

The gentlemen have all said yes.

You belong to me, I am your father, tell me once 'father'!" Wiseli had
become completely white.

It stood there and stared at the Andres, but it said not a word and
did not move.

"Yes, so, Andres began again," you can not understand it myself all
the time for joy.

Now I want from the front start.

You see, Wiseli, now I just have it in the office signed.

You're my child now, and I am your father, and you stay here with me
forever and never go back to uncle.

Here you are at home, here with me. "Now Wiseli had understood everything.
Suddenly it jumped on to Andres, covered him with both arms and
shouted: "Father, Father!"

The Andres was not a word more, and the Wiseli not because there
was so much together in the heart and the idea that it was quite
overwhelmed.

But with einemmal it was as if he opened up a bright light. It
looked at the Andres with shining eyes and cried.

"Oh Father, now I know how it is received and who has helped us."

"So, so, and who, unless Wiseli?" he asked. "The mother!" was the
quick reply. "The mother?" Andres repeated, a little astonished. "What
do you mean, Wiseli?"
Then, farther
away, we can see a mine, a winding brook, and a house, with a wall in
front of it. Who can see them?"

To judge by the collective expression of the audience, no one does.
Bobby ploughs on.

"Upon the skyline we notice--Squad, '_shun!_"

Captain Wagstaffe has strolled up. He is second in command of A
Company. Bobby explains to him modestly what he has been trying to do.

"Yes, I heard you," says Wagstaffe. "You take a breather, while I
carry on for a bit. Squad, stand easy, and tell me what you can see on
that target. Lance-Corporal Ness, show me a pit-head."

Lance-Corporal Ness steps briskly forward and lays a grubby forefinger
on Bobby's "mine."

"Private Mucklewame, show me a burn."

The brook is at once identified.

"Private M'Leary, shut your eyes and tell me what there is just to the
right of the windmill."

"A wee knowe, sirr," replies M'Leary at once. Bobby recognises his
"low knoll"--also the fact that it is no use endeavouring to instruct
the unlettered until you have learned their language.

"Very good!" says Captain Wagstaffe. "Now we will go on to what is
known as Description and Recognition of Targets. Supposing I had sent
one of you forward into that landscape as a scout.--By the way, what
is a scout?"

Dead silence, as usual.

"Come along! Tell me, somebody! Private Mucklewame?"

"They gang oot in a procession on Setter-day efternoons, sirr, in
short breeks," replies Mucklewame promptly.

"A procession is the very last thing a scout goes out in!" raps
Wagstaffe. (It is plain to Mucklewame that the Captain has never been
in Wishaw, but he does not argue the point.) "Private M'Micking, what
is a scout?"

"A spy, sirr," replies the omniscient one.

"Well, that's better; but there's a big difference between the two.
What is it?"

This is a poser. Several men know the difference, but feel quite
incapable of explaining it. The question runs down the front rank.
Finally it is held up and disposed of by one Mearns (from Aberdeen).

"A spy, sirr, gets mair money than a scout."

"Does he?" asks Captain Wagstaffe, smiling. "Well, I am not in a
position to say. But if he does, he earns it! Why?"

"Because if he gets catched he gets shot," volunteers a rear-rank man.

"Right. Why is he shot?"

This conundrum is too deep for the squad. The Captain has to answer it
himself.

"Because he is not in uniform, and cannot therefore be treated as an
ordinary prisoner of war. So never go scouting in your nightshirt,
Mucklewame!"

The respectable Mucklewame blushes deeply at this outrageous
suggestion, but Wagstaffe proceeds--

"Now, supposing I sent you out scouting, and you discovered that over
there--somewhere in the middle of this field"--he lays a finger on the
field in question--"there was a fold in the ground where a machine-gun
section was concealed: what would you do when you got back?"

"I would tell you, sirr," replied Private M'Micking politely.

"Tell me what?"

"That they was there, sirr."

"Where?"

"In yon place."

"How would you indicate the position of the place?"

"I would pint it oot with ma finger, sirr."

"Invisible objects half a mile away are not easily pointed out with
the finger," Captain Wagstaffe mentions. "Lance-Corporal Ness, how
would you describe it?"

"I would tak' you there, sirr."

"Thanks! But I doubt if either of us would come back! Private Wemyss?"

"I would say, sirr, that the place was west of the mansion-hoose."

"There's a good deal of land west of that mansion-house, you know,"
expostulates the Captain gently; "but we are getting on. Thompson?"

"I would say, sir," replies Thompson, puckering his brow, "that it was
in ablow they trees."

"It would be hard to indicate the exact trees you meant. Trees are too
common. You try, Corporal King."

But Corporal King, who earned his stripes by reason of physical rather
than intellectual attributes, can only contribute a lame reference
to "a bit hedge by yon dyke, where there's a kin' o' hole in the
tairget." Wagstaffe breaks in--

"Now, everybody, take some conspicuous and unmistakable object about
the middle of that landscape--something which no one can mistake. The
mansion-house will do--the near end. Now then--_mansion-house, near
end_! Got that?"

There is a general chorus of assent.

"Very well. I want you to imagine that the base of the mansion-house
is the centre of a great clock-face. Where would twelve o'clock be?"

The platoon are plainly tickled by this new round-game. They reply--

"Straught up!"

"Right. Where is nine o'clock?"

"Over tae the left."

"Very good. And so on with all the other hours. Now, supposing I were
to say, _End of mansion-house_--_six o'clock_--_white gate_--you would
carry your eye straight _downward_, through the garden, until it
encountered the gate. I would thus have enabled you to recognise a
very small object in a wide landscape in the quickest possible time.
See the idea?"

"Yes, sirr."

"All right. Now for our fold in the ground. _End of
mansion-house_--_eight o'clock_--got that?"

There is an interested murmur of assent.

"That gives you the direction from the house. Now for the distance!
_End of mansion-house_--_eight o 'clock_--_two finger-breadths_--what
does that give you, Lance-Corporal Ness?"

"The corrner of a field, sirr."

"Right. This is _our_ field. We have picked it correctly out of about
twenty fields, you see. _Corner of field. In the middle of the field,
a fold in the ground. At nine hundred--at the fold in the ground--five
rounds--fire_! You see the idea now?"

"Yes, sirr."

"Very good. Let the platoon practise describing targets to one
another, Mr. Little. Don't be too elaborate. Never employ either the
clock or finger method if you can describe your target without. For
instance: _Left of windmill_--_triangular cornfield. At the_ _nearest
corner_--_six hundred_--_rapid fire!_ is all you want. Carry on, Mr.
Little."

And leaving Bobby and his infant class to practise this new and
amusing pastime, Captain Wagstaffe strolls away across the square to
where the painstaking Waddell is contending with another squad.

They, too, have a landscape target--a different one. Before it half a
dozen rifles stand, set in rests. Waddell has given the order: _Four
hundred_--_at the road, where it passes under the viaduct_--_fire!_
and six privates have laid the six rifles upon the point indicated.
Waddell and Captain Wagstaffe walk down the line, peering along the
sights of the rifles. Five are correctly aligned: the sixth points to
the spacious firmament above the viaduct.

"Hallo!" observes Wagstaffe.

"This is the man's third try, sir," explains the harassed Waddell. "He
doesn't seem to be able to distinguish anything at all."

"Eyesight wrong?"

"So he says, sir."

"Been a long time finding out, hasn't he?"

"The sergeant told me, sir," confides Waddell, "that in his opinion
the man is 'working for his ticket.'"

"Umph!"

"I did not quite understand the expression, sir," continues the honest
youth, "so I thought I would consult you."

"It means that he is trying to get his discharge. Bring him along:
I'll soon find out whether he is skrim-shanking or not."

Private M'Sweir is introduced, and led off to the lair of that
hardened cynic, the Medical Officer. Here he is put through some
simple visual tests. He soon finds himself out of his depth. It
is extremely difficult to feign either myopia, hypermetria, or
astigmatism if you are not acquainted with the necessary symptoms, and
have not decided beforehand which (if any) of these diseases you are
suffering from. Like their ancestors ennobled kurulischen plebeian
families with patrician bodies are included and a separate position,
and excellent power in the community won, it was again on the point
from where you expected, there was again not just a ruling aristocracy,
and a hereditary nobility, both of which in fact never had vanished,
but a ruling Erbadel, and had the feud between the rule okkupierenden
sex and gender against the rebellious municipalities begin again.

And so far, it was very soon. The nobility did not have their rights
honored indifferent, but rang for political special and exclusive power
and looked at the key institutions of the State Senate and chivalry,
of organs of the community institutions in the altneuen noble ones.
------ ----------------------------------------- ^ 1 All of these
badges come, since they absolutely clear about, first of all,
probably the only real nobility, ie the agnatischen Deszendenten
kurulischer officials, although according to the nature of such
decorations, over time, all at a wider audience has been expanded.

Certainly this is evidence for the golden ring, in the fifth century
only the nobility (Plin. nat. 33, 1, 18), already in the sixth and each
Senator Senator's son (Liv. 26, 36), seventh in any of Knight's
census in the imperial period by each contributes births, and also
of the silver horse jewelry, which is still in the wars of Hannibal,
only the nobility role (Liv. 26, 37); from the purple stocking the
Knabentoga, initially only the sons of the magistrate kurulischen,
then, those of Knight Later all those Free-born at last, but already
at the time of the War of Hannibal, even the sons of the freedmen
was permitted (Macr.

Sat 1, 6). The golden amulet capsule (bulla) insignia was the senator
children during the time of the Hannibal War (Macr .

Sat cit; Liv. 26, 36), in which the children of Cicerone Knight
census (Cic. verr. 1, 58, 152), whereas the less the leather amulet
(lorum), respectively.

The purple stripe (clavus) on the tunic is insignia of the
senators and knights, so that at least in later times it that wide,
this narrow bore, with the nobility of Clavus has nothing to do. ^
2 Plin. nat. 21, 3, 6 The right to appear publicly crowned, was
awarded by the wars acquired (Polyb. 6, 39, 9; Liv. 10, 41), the
unauthorized wearing wreath was a similar offense, as if someone
today without privileges include an Militaerverdienstorden would
create. ^ 3 Excludes Kriegstribunat remain with the consular
authority, the Prokonsulat the Quaestur the Volkstribunat and others.

As for the censorship is concerned, it seems, despite the kurulischen
chair of the censors (Liv. 40, 45; cf. 27, 8) are not as kurulisches
Office applied to have for the later period, however, where only
the consular censor, it is the question without practical value.

The plebeian Aedilitaet has certainly not originally on the
Magistrature kurulischen counted (Liv. 23, 23), but it could be
that she later included in the circle being drawn into the same
ward. -------------- --------------------------------- The legal
dependence of the Senate of the Roman Republic, including the further
patrician-plebeian, from of the Magistracy, was quickly eased, yes,
in the opposite turns.

By the revolution of 244 (510) initiated the subjugation
Gemeindeaemter among the council to transfer the appointment to
the Council by the Consul to the censor, finally and above all the
legal determination of entitlement to former officials kurulischer
seat and vote in the Senate had the from a Senate, appointed by the
officials and in many ways dependent Ratsmannschaft into a virtually
independent, and in some sense complementary himself Government
College converted, because the two channels through which we reached
in the Senate: the choice to a kurulischen office and the appointment
by the censor, were the matter both in itself GOVERNMENTAL It was
in this period the residents to be independent, to Nichtadligen
from the Senate to exclude completely, even the most Adelschaft
still too circumspect to do this just to want to alone in the
strictly aristocratic structure of the Senate in itself, the sharp
distinction both unprecedented kurulischen officials after their
three classes of rank CONSULAR, Praetorier and Aedilizier, as well
as including through a kurulisches Office arrived in the Senate and
therefore excluded from the debate, senators, were but the Nichtadligen,
even though they probably number in almost sat in the Senate, to a
minor and relatively less influential position in the same ward
herabgedrueckt and the Senate of the materially Traeger nobility.

For a second, although less important, but that is not insignificant
body of the nobility, the Institute of chivalry developed. The new
Erbadel had since he had no power to the exclusive possession of
Komitien anzumassen it highly desirable that at least a special status
within the community to obtain representation. In the Neighborhood
Assembly lacked any means to, on the other hand, seemed to Ritterzenturien
in Servianischen order for this purpose as was created. The eighteen
one hundred horses, which supplied the town ^ 4, were also affected
by the constitutional censors awarded.

Although they should be the Knights after military considerations
and the exquisite designs all by age or otherwise incapacitated or
even unusable riders stop their state horse holds, but that the
knights horses preferably the assets have been disclosed, was in
the nature of the institution itself, and everywhere was the Censors
are not easy to defend, that it is more elegant to be seen at birth
and the efficiency once recorded respectable citizens, including
senators, also about the time her horse left.

Perhaps it is even legally been noted that the senator could remain
the same, as long as he wanted. So it was really because at least
rule that in the eighteen senators voted Ritterzenturien and
other places in the same predominantly to the young men of the nobility
came. The essence of war, of course, suffered under, still less
effective by the invalidity of a very small part of the Legionarreiterei,
as it brought about by the destruction of military equality, by
the noble youth of the service itself in the foot more and more
people retired.

The closed noble corps of true chivalry was the whole tone for the home
and property by highest Legionarreiterei taken by citizens. You
will then understand about why the Knights have Sizilischen during
the war the command of consul Gaius Aurelius Cotta, with jumps
to Legionari, refused to obey (502 252), and why Mr. Oberfeld
Cato as the Spanish army's cavalry a serious criminal speech to do was
arrange.

But this transformation of citizens into a cavalry Mounted Nobel Guard
served the community is not committed to the downside than to the benefit
of the nobility, which in the eighteen Ritterzenturien not just a
separate, but also the leading vote received. -----------
-------------------------------------------------- ---- ^ 4 The
viable assumption that the six Adelszenturien alone, 1200 The whole
cavalry horses so 3600 should be counted, is not tenable.

The number of knights on the number of the Anna listed doublings to
determine is a methodological error, each of these stories is much
more for himself, and arisen to explain. Testified, however, is
neither the first number, which only in the course of the advocates
of this opinion as a recognized body prescribed Cicero (Rep. 2,
20), nor the second, about absolutely nowhere in the Old appears.

On the other hand, speaks for the assumption presented in the
text once, and especially not by evidence but by the institutions
themselves number displayed, because it is certain that the Zenturie
100 men and counts it originally three, then six, since the last
eighteen Servianischen reform Ritterzenturien existed.

The certificates are only apparently against it.

The old, self-related tradition, WA Becker (Manual, Vol 2.1, p.
243) has developed, does not the eighteen patrician-plebeian, but
the six patrician Zenturien to 1800 heads: and these are Livy ( 1,
36, after the hand-alone and is not certified according to Livy
'Einzelansaetzen reading to be corrected) and Cicero op (after
grammatically permissible reading alone MDCCC, see Becker, supra,
p. 244) apparently followed.

Solo flat. Cicero also suggests quite understandable, that this stock
at the time of the Roman chivalry ever called about it. It is therefore
the number of all the outstanding part has been taken over by a
Prolepsis how old they are not too thoughtful Anna lists familiar
- all in the same type will also have the parent community, with
the anticipation of the quota and the Titi Lucerer, 300 instead of
100 riders attached (Becker, ibid, p. 238).

Finally, the application Cato (Jordan p. 66), the number of knights
on horses at 2200 erhoehen, an equally certain confirmation
of the above presented as refutation of the opposite view. The
number of closed chivalry has probably continued to exist until Sulla,
where the de facto abolition of censorship no longer the same and
seem to take the place of issue of the censors knight horse acquisition
thereof by the successions occurred: now is the senator's son born
knights.

However, in addition to this closed chivalry, the Equites equo
publico, have been fruehrepublikanischer time for Ross to service
your horse requiring citizens who are not as the highest census
class, they are not in the Ritterzenturien, but are otherwise as
a knight and take the honor of knighthood rights also claimed.

In the August order remains the Senator houses the hereditary Knight
Law; but also the censor awarding of the Knight Emperor's horse as
a right and without restriction to a certain number of falls and
thus renewed for the first census class such as the Knights designation
away. --- --------------------------------------------------
------------ relative way, the formal separation of the squares of
the state senators from those from which the rest of the folk
watching.

It was the great Scipio, in his second consulate 560 (194) led them.

The festival was a People's Assembly as well as the vote of the
appointed Zenturien, and those that had nothing to decide, is herein
made the official announcement of the divorce of Mr.

Booth and subjects shaft just as concise. The innovation was also a
question on many blame the government because they are just spiteful
and not useful, and the desire of the smarter part of the aristocracy
their special regiment under the forms of civil equality to hide a
very obvious denial existed.

It is explained why the censorship of the pivotal point of the
republican constitution was late, why not at this originally in the
first row below the Office began with a it is not in itself deserves
honor outer jewelry and only a very aristocratic, republican glory
surrounded and as the peak and the fulfillment of a public career
seemed wohlgefuehrten; why the government of any attempt by the
opposition, their men in this office to bring the censor or even
during or after his Amtsfuehrung for the same before the people to
account, as an attack on its installations Palladium and against
each such start like a man came into the barriers - it is enough
in this relationship to the storm to remember that the application
makes the censorship of Cato and rise to the unusual and formverletzenden
ruthless measures, making the Senate the prosecution of the two
unpopular Censors of the Year 550 (204) prevented.

It connects with the glorification of censorship is a characteristic
of censure against the government's most important to her and just
about dangerous tools.

It was absolutely necessary to the censors the unconditional Turn
over the Senators and staff to leave Ritter, as the exclusion of
the right of appeal is not well separated and also that probably
does not could be less oppositional to capacity from the Senate to
eliminate what the leisetretende Regiment carefully avoided this
time, the aristocracy than to their moral Nimbus to maintain, without
which it quickly spoils the opposition had to be.

The Ausstossungsrecht remained, but it took the gloss of the mostly
naked weapon - the edge that you feared it as blunts.

Apart from the barrier, present in the office itself was, to the extent
that the members of the aristocratic government lists only five to
five years of auditing, as well as those included in the Interzessionsrecht
of colleagues and the Kassationsrecht successor of the given
limitations joined yet another very tangible added, by ensuring the
equal standing Observance Act, the obligation to censor did not no
senator and knight without written Grounds and usually not without
a quasi-judicial procedures of the list.

In this mainly to the Senate, the chivalry and the censorship based
policy position tore the nobility not only contributed substantially
to the regiment itself, but also designed the Constitution in its
meaning to.

It is already here that, in order to Gemeindeaemter prices to keep
the same number as little as possible and certainly not in the grade
increased, as the enlargement of the borders and the proliferation
of stores it would have required.

Only the most urgent need was rough rectified by the division so
far by the only court praetor managed stores under two court
gentlemen, one of which the cases among Roman citizens, the other
those of Nichtbuergern or between citizens and Nichtbuergern over,
in the year 511 (243) and by the appointment of four Nebenkonsuln
for the four overseas posts Sicily (527 227), Sardinia and Corsica
(527 227), which this and the otherworldly Spain (557 197).

The very summary nature of the Roman initiation process and the rising
influence of Bueropersonals probably go back to a large extent on the
physical inadequacy of the Roman Magistracy.

Under the government-led innovations that matter, because they
almost entirely not the letter, but only the exercise the existing
constitutional change, innovations are no less, will take effect
on the specific measures indicated, making the clothing of the
officer positions as the civil posts not, as the letter of the
Constitution allowed it, and whose spirit is called, simply by merit
and efficiency, but more and of birth and more dependent Anciennetaet
was made.

In appointing the staff officers did not form, but more so the
matter.

It was during the previous period, largely from the field to the
Lord residents transferred in this period there was further noted
that all the staff officers of the regular annual digging, the
twenty-four Kriegstribune of four full legions, in the district
assemblies have been appointed.

Always unuebersteiglicher withdrew so the barrier between the subaltern,
the items by their brave and timely service from the commander,
and the rod of his preferred position by application of the residents
are acquired.

To see only the worst abuses are to control and completely untested
young people of these important items away, it was necessary, the
forgiveness of staff officer positions in the detection of a certain
number of years to build.

Nevertheless, since the Kriegstribunat, the right column of the
Roman military, the young nobleman, as a first step stone at her
political career was made out, the service very often inevitable
eludiert and the election officer depending on Uebelstaenden all
Aemterbettels the democratic and aristocratic Junkerexklusivitaet.

It was a piercing critique of the new institution that serious wars (for
example 583 171) it was necessary, this democratic electoral officer
and to suspend the appointment of the rod back to the commander to
leave.

At the Citizens Service Centers was first and foremost the reelection
to the highest municipal offices is limited. It was, however,
required when the Jahrkoenigtum not an empty name should be, and already
in the previous period was the election to the consulate again
until after the expiration of ten years and allows for the censorship
was about absolutely prohibited.

The sergeant-major smiled indulgently,

"I can do without signals, sir," he said "I know where the shot went
all right. I must get the next a _little_ more to the left. That last
one was a bit too near to three o'clock to be a certainty."

He fired again--with precisely the same result.

Every one was quite apologetic to the sergeant-major this time.

"This must be stopped," announced the Captain. "Mr. Simson, ring up
Captain Wagstaffe on the telephone."

But the sergeant-major would not hear of this.

"The butt-registers are good enough for me, sir," he said with a
paternal smile. He fired again. Once more the target stared back,
blank and unresponsive.

This time the audience were too disgusted to speak. They merely
shrugged their shoulders and glanced at one another with sarcastic
smiles. The Captain, who had suffered a heavy reverse at the hands
of Captain Wagstaffe earlier in the morning, began to rehearse the
wording of his address over the telephone.

The sergeant-major fired his last two shots with impressive
aplomb--only to be absolutely ignored twice more by Number Seven. Then
he rose to his feet and saluted with ostentatious respectfulness.

"Four bulls and one inner, I _think_, sir. I'm afraid I pulled that
last one off a bit."


The Captain is already at the telephone. For the moment this most
feminine of instruments is found to be in an accommodating frame of
mind. Philippos settled and things go, but if it was, he found the strength
in themselves to rapid and serious action.

Perseus fascinating and fine-wide plans and pursued them with untiring
perseverance, but when the hour beat and what he created and had
prepared him in the living reality entgegentrat, he was in front
of his own works.

How it is Limited natures intrinsically, it was the means to an
end, he accumulated treasures of treasures for the Roemer war and
as the Romans were in the country, he could not by his Goldstuecken
to separate.

It is significant that after the defeat of the father first ran, the
compromising papers in his Cabinet to destroy, the son on the other
hand, took his cash and einschiffte.

In ordinary times he would have been a king of dozen shock as well
and better than some others may submit, but he was not created to
lead a company that is out of the box was lost, if not an extraordinary
man is soulful.

Macedonia was not low power .

The devotion of the country against the house of Antigoniden was
unbroken, the Nationalgefuehl here alone not by the political parties
paralyzed Hader.

The big advantage of the monarchical constitution, that every change
of government in the old grudges and squabbles are removed and a new
era of other humans and fresh hopes herauffuehrt was circumspect use
of Koenig and his government started with a general amnesty, with
Zurueckberufung the volatile Bankerottierer and adopt the least
taxes .

The nasty firmness of his father so the son was not only beneficial,
but also love. Twenty-six years, the peace gaps in the Macedonian
population in part by self-written, sometimes the government allowed
for this as for the real sore spot in the country to take serious
care.

Philippos considered the Macedonians to the marriage and child production,
he occupied the Kuestenstaedte from which the residents moved into
the interior, with Thracian colonists from reliable defensive and
loyalty, he moved to the devastating incursions of the Dardan off
once and for all, to the north a separating wall, by the intermediate
country beyond the border to the barbaric wilderness area made, and
founded new towns in the northern provinces.

In short, he did train for the same train for Macedonia, which later
Augustus, the Roman Empire, for the second founded. The army was
numerous - 30 000 men without the Moving and Mietstruppen be
expected - and the young team practiced by the continuous border
war against the Thracian barbarians.

"I doot I'm gettin' a thing nairvous," he muttered apologetically to
the sergeant.

"Havers! Shut your held and give the bull a bash!" responded that
admirable person.

The twitching Budge, bracing himself, scored an inner--three points.

"A bull, and we do it!" murmured Bobby Little. Fortunately Budge did
not hear.

"Ye're no daen badly," admitted the sergeant grudgingly.

Budge, a little piqued, determined to do better. He raised his
foresight slowly; took the first pull; touched "six o'clock" on the
distant bull--luckily the light was perfect--and took the second pull
for the last time.

Next moment a white disc rose slowly out of the earth and covered the
bull's-eye.

So Bobby Little was able next morning to congratulate his disciples
upon being "the best-shooting platoon in the best-shooting Company in
the best-shooting Battalion in the Brigade."

Not less than fifty other subalterns within a radius of five miles
were saying the same thing to their platoons. It is right to foster a
spirit of emulation in young troops.


VIII

BILLETS

_Scene, a village street, deserted. Rain falls_. (It has been falling
for about three weeks.) _A tucket sounds. Enter, reluctantly,
soldiery. They grouse. There appear severally, in doorways, children.
They stare. And at chamber-windows, serving-maids. They make eyes. The
soldiery make friendly signs_.


Such is the stage setting for our daily morning parade. We have been
here for some weeks now, and the populace is getting used to us. But
when we first burst upon this peaceful township I think we may say,
without undue egoism, that we created a profound sensation. In this
sleepy corner of Hampshire His Majesty's uniform, enclosing a casual
soldier or sailor on furlough, is a common enough sight, but a whole
regiment on the march is the rarest of spectacles. As for this
tatterdemalion northern horde, which swept down the street a few
Sundays ago, with kilts swinging, bonnets cocked, and Pipes skirling,
as if they were actually returning from a triumphant campaign instead
of only rehearsing for one--well, as I say, the inhabitants had never
seen anything like us in the world before. We achieved a _succès fou_.
In fact, we were quite embarrassed by the attention bestowed upon us.
During our first few parades the audience could with difficulty be
kept off the stage. It was impossible to get the children into school,
or the maids to come in and make the beds. Whenever a small boy spied
an officer, he stood in his way and saluted him. Dogs enlisted in
large numbers, sitting down with an air of pleased expectancy in the
supernumerary rank, and waiting for this new and delightful pastime to
take a fresh turn. When we marched out to our training area, later in
the day, infant schools were decanted on to the road under a beaming
vicar, to utter what we took to be patriotic sounds and wave
handkerchiefs.

Off duty, we fraternised with the inhabitants. The language was a
difficulty, of course; but a great deal can be done by mutual goodwill
and a few gestures. It would have warmed the heart of a philologist to
note the success with which a couple of kilted heroes from the banks
of Loch Lomond would sidle up to two giggling damosels of Hampshire at
the corner of the High Street, by the post office, and invite them
to come for a walk. Though it was obvious that neither party could
understand a single word that the other was saying, they never failed
to arrive at an understanding; and the quartette, having formed
two-deep, would disappear into a gloaming as black as ink, to inhale
the evening air and take sweet counsel together--at a temperature of
about twenty-five degrees Fahrenheit.

You ought to see us change guard. A similar ceremony takes place,
we believe, outside Buckingham Palace every morning, and draws a
considerable crowd; but you simply cannot compare it with ours. 
Similarly, the family courts about the woman who eheherrliche to
those linked violence and guardianship, practical more and more
antiques. But things in public, women began to have a desire to
have, and occasionally, as Cato said, "the rulers of the world
to master"; in the residents have had their influence is felt,
and indeed it is already collected in the provinces of Roman statues
ladies. The lush rose in costume, jewelry and equipment in the
buildings and in the table, especially since the expedition to Asia
Minor in the year 564 (190) contributed to the Asia-Hellenic luxury,
as in Ephesus, and he reigned Alexandreia, his empty refinement and
his money, tag and joy of perishable Kleinkraemerei on to Rome.

Again, women were advancing, they put it, despite Cato keen Schelten
through that soon after the battle of Canna (539 215) residents
taken a decision, which make the gold, the colorful costumes and the
carriages prohibited, after the peace with Carthage ( 559 195) was
repealed, their eager opponents remained nothing left, as in this
article a high tax to be (570 184). A mass of new and largely frivolous
objects, petite figured silver dishes, sofas, table with bronze fittings,
the so-called Attal garments and carpets from heavy gold brocade now
found their way to Rome. Above all, it was the table to this new
luxury is turned. Previously it was without exception only once eaten
warm on the day, were now also at the second breakfast (prandium)
is not infrequently applied hot meals, and for the main meal ranged
previous two courses no longer enough.

So far, the women in the home, the bread baking and the kitchen itself
procures and only had a catering chef by profession specially
hired, then the food such as pastries equally worried. Now on the
other hand, began the science of cooking. In the good houses
became a private chef on hold. The division of labor was needed,
and from the Kuechenhandwerk branches of the bread and cake baking,
from - to 583 (171), the first Baeckerlaeden in Rome. Poems about the
art of good eating, with long lists of the best saltwater fish eat
and Meerfruechte found their audience, and it did not stop at theory.

Foreign delicacies, Pontic anchovies, Greek wine, began to be
acquired in Rome, and Cato recipe, the habitual Landwein brine
through the taste of the koischen to give, is the Roman Weinhaendlern
hardly have done substantial demolition. The respectable old singing
and saying the boys and their guests was ousted by the Asian Harfenistinnen.
Until then, it was probably in Rome at the meal bravely drinking,
carousing, but actually not known, but now came the formal bars in
full swing, with wine little or no mixed and large cups, and became
drunk with the Vortrinken obligato successor ruled that "Greek
drinking" (Graeco more Bibere) or "Greeks" (pergraecari, congraecare),
as the Romans call it.

In the wake of this Zechwirtschaft adopted Wuerfelspiel that is
admittedly a long with the Romans was usual, at such ratio that the
legislation it was necessary, but to intervene. The work Scheubeck
and loiter increasingly accessible to ^ 2 Cato suggested the
market with sharp stones, in order to invoke the day thieves to
place the craft, you laughed about the fun and pleasure, the Lotter and
gaffer seer of all. opposite her. The appalling extent of Volkslustbarkeiten
during this period has already been thought. In the beginning was the
same, apart from some minor, the more religious ceremonies
beizuzaehlenden race and race only in the month of September a
single general festival of four-time and with a certain fixed maximum
cost held, at the same conclusions that had been popular at least
six permanent and were Moreover in addition to early April, the
Feast of Goettermutter or the so-called megalensischen, towards the
end of April, the Ceres and Flora, in June of Apollo, in November
the Plebejerfest and probably all of these already celebrated several
days.

In addition, there were numerous Instaurationen, where the pious
Skrupulositaet probably often served merely as a pretext, and the
incessant extraordinary festivals in which the aforementioned feasts
of the Geloebniszehnten (2nd, 391), the Goetterschmaeuse, and the
Triumphal Celebrations and the corpse especially out the festivities,
which after the completion of one of the longest, by the Etruscan-Roman
religion demarcated periods, the so-called Saecula, first in the
year 505 (249), were celebrated.

At the same time increasing the house parties. During the Second
Punic War, came under the nobles Schmausereien already mentioned
in the Einzugstag on the Goettermutter (since 550 204), among the lower
people's similar Saturnalia (from 537 217), both under the influence
of the powers of the henceforth festverbuendeten foreign parsons
and of the foreign cook. It was very close to the ideal state that
any dawdler knew where he could ruin every day, and in a community
where else for each individual as all together for the purpose of
life activity and the idle Geniefeen by custom as by law outlawed was!
They made these celebrations within the bad and demoralizing
elements more and more claims.

The luster and final point of the Folk formed admittedly still
the races, and a poet, this time very vividly describes the
tension, making the eyes of the amount of the Consul-hung, if he
signs for the car to leave in the term was . But the old merry-sufficient
but no longer, we asked for new and varied. In addition to the
local wrestlers and fighters are now (the first 568 186) and Greek
athletes on. From the dramatic performances will later be said that
it was probably a gain of questionable value, but in any case, the
best on this occasion made the purchase, that the Greek comedy
and tragedy was transplanted to Rome. The fun, rabbits and
foxes run before the audience and rush to leave, we have long liked
to have done, now was innocent of these hunts Tierhetzen formal, and
the wild beasts of Africa, lions and panthers, were once (first
evidence 568 186) with great cost to Rome transported to the killing
or dying metropolitan rubberneck for the eye to serve.

The more heinous fencers games, as in Etruria and Campania were
passable, were now in receipt of Rome, first in the year 490 (264)
was built on the Roman market, people shed blood for fun.

Of these entsittlichenden met entertainment even on strict reprimand;
the consul of the year 476 (268), Publius Sempronius Sophus, sent his
wife the separating letter, because they play a funeral beigewohnt
had the government put it, that the transfer of foreign beasts after
Rome Buergermeister decision was prohibited and considered with
strictness that in the community celebrations appeared not gladiators.

Young also missed her but it was the right power or the right energy,
it was true, as it seems, the Tierhetzen niederzuhalten, but the
occurrence of pairs of fencers for private celebrations, funeral
ceremonies in particular, was not suppressed. Still less was it to
prevent the audience the tragedian the comedians, the comedians to
Acrobat, the Acrobat preferred the fencers and the Schaubuehne with
predilection in the dirt of the Hellenistic herumtrieb life. What
of visual elements in the scenic and musical games included,
were priced from the outset, the intention of the Roman festival
donors was not at all that through the power of poetry, the entire
audience even if only temporarily at the height of the sensation
of the best to rise, as the Greek stage in its heyday did, or a selected
group enjoy an art to it, as our theater to try it. How Directorate
in Rome, and viewers were obtained, the appearance at the Triumphalspielen
587 (167), where the first Greek Floetenspieler as they with their
melodies durchfielen, were instructed by the director, instead of
making music together in boxing, but for what the Jubilee is not
wanted to end. ---------------------------------------- ^ 2 A kind
Parabase in the Plautinischen 'Curculio' describes the current buzz
on the metropolitan markets, with a little joke, but with great
clarity: Do you have what local people can find what you like, that
does not lose his time, which of you wish to speak a right or poor,
good or bad looking man leave a Eidesfaelscher?

Instead the thing schick 'ich Dich. Luegensack and a boaster?
Cluacina to go out. [rich desert husbands are to have in the bazaar;
also Lustknab 'house is there and who's to business suits.] But at
the fish market, go to pubs from the common pot. Brave men, good
payer to convert the below market, in the middle 'on but the ditch,
which are nothing more than cheat. Dreist talker, bad boys stand
together at the pool, with the sassy tongue scold them for nothing from
the people and yet deliver truly self gnug, you may complain . In the
old shacks sit the money on interest leihn; Unterm Kastortempel,
which rapidly gets poor to borrow; On the Tuskergasse are the people
that are available for sale; In Velabrum has bakers, butchers,
victims Pfaffen also extending the deadline debtors , Wuchrer help
to Ganttermin: rich husbands desert in Leucadia Oppia. The bracketed
verses are a later, after construction of the first Roman Bazaar
(570 184) Addition inserted.

The business of the baker (Pistor, literally Mueller) was at
that time deli sales Kneip and opportunity associated (Fest. v.
Mueller alicariae p. 7; Plaut. Capt. 160, Poen. 1, 2, 54, Trin.
407). The same is true of the meat. Leucadia Oppia like a bad house
to keep. ----------------------------------------- --------------
Already spoiled not only the Hellenic contagion the Roman customs,
but conversely, the students began, the teacher to demoralize.

The fencers games, which were unknown in Greece, led King Antiochus
Epiphanes (579-590 175-164), the Roemeraffe by profession, first at
the Syrian court, and although the humane and artistic obstinate
Greek audience initially more excited disgust than pleasure, so
they were still there, too, and came gradually into more widely in
use.

Naturally, this revolution in life and also a custom Economic
Revolution in their wake. The existence in the capital, was always
coveted and increasingly costly. Rents rose to unprecedented
heights. The new luxury items have been associated with dizziness
prices paid, and the kegs anchovies from the Black Sea with 1600
Sestertius (120 thalers) higher than a farm boy, a pretty boy
with 24000 Sestertius (1800 thalers) higher than many farm.
So money and nothing but money was the solution for high and
low. Long did something no one in Greece in vain, as the Greeks
themselves have acknowledged with unloeblicher naïvety; since the Second
Macedonian War began, the Romans, even in this respect hellenisieren.

The respectability had with statutory Notstuetzen and, for example by
people closing the trustee be prohibited, for their services to
take money, a nice exception made only Rechtsverstaendigen the
honest in their custom, nothing good advice to give, not by
Buergermeister decision to be held needed.

Man stole perhaps not outright, but all the crooked paths to riches
quick to arrive, seemed allowed looting and begging, supplier fraud
and speculators dizziness, interest and usury seeds, even the
economic advantage purely moral relationships such as friendship and
marriage. Especially the latter has been on both sides of the subject
of speculation, marriages were usually money and it was found
necessary, the gifts which the spouses have made themselves, rejecting
the legal validity.

That under this type of maps to show came, the capital to all corners
anzuzuenden can not alienating. When man no longer enjoy the work
takes place and just works, as quickly as possible to enjoy to arrive
so it's only a coincidence if it is not a criminal. All glories of power
and wealth had about the fate of the Romans distributed with full
source, but verily, the Pandora was a gift of dubious value. 14
Chapter art and literature, the Roman literature is based on very
peculiar in this way hardly any other nation in recurring suggestions.
To correct it, it is necessary first and foremost the people's
lessons and the amusements of this time might be envisaged. All
intellectual formation is based on the language, and this applies
especially for Rome.

In a town where the speech and the instrument meant so much, where
the citizens of an age in which we have referred to today's
notions boy is already an unlimited property management and overcome
in the case came before the assembled community stand Speeches need
to keep, you have not just on the free and subtle use of language
has always placed great value, but also the early try, the same
boys in the years to adapt.

Even the Greek language was already in the time of Hannibal in Italy
widespread.

In the higher circles, the customer generally mediating language
of the old civilization was often a long and now, with the changed
world of Roman traffic increased tremendously with foreigners and
abroad, the merchant, such as the state where man is not necessary,
but probably very much .

By Italic slaves and Released shaft but at a very large part born
from the Greeks or Halbgriechen existed, penetrated Greek language
and Greek knowledge to a certain extent, a concept also in the lower
layers including the metropolitan population. The comedies of
this time you can convince that just does not make the metropolitan
quantity Latin mund was just what the right understanding is necessary
so the Greek implies Sternes as English and French, the German
Wieland ^ 1 The men of the Senators, but families are not just
talking Greek to a Greek audience, but also made aware of these
speeches - so Tiberius Gracchus (consul 577, 591 177163) one of him
on Rhodes held - and replaced in the Hannibal Greek chronicles their
time, from which later still writing to speak will be.

Some went even further.

The Greeks Flamininus honored by tributes in Roman language, but
he said the compliment: the "great captain of the Aeneiaden" brought
the Greek gods according to Greek custom with Greek Distichen his
Weihgeschenke represent ^ 2 Another senator Cato brought before it,
that he recitatives Greek Greek drinking bouts with the duly
modulation present had not ashamed. -------------------------
--------------------------------- ^ 1 A certain circle of Greek
expressions, as stratioticus, machaera, nauclerus, trapezita,
danista, drapeta, oenopolium, bolus, malacus, Morus, graphicus,
logus, apologus, TECHNA, schematic, certainly belongs to the nature
of language Plautinischen; Uebersetzungen are rarely added to only
in words, outside of those citations by designated circle idea,
such as it is in the 'savages' (1, 1, 60), albeit in a perhaps only
later inserted verses means: phron / e / sis est sapientia [magnanimity
is wisdom].

Even Greek lumps are common, for example in the 'Casina' (3, 6, 9):
pragmata moi parecheis - Dabo mega kakon, ut opinor, as Greek word
games, for example in 'The two Bacchis' (240): opus est chryso
Chrysalo; Ennius as well as the etymological meaning of Alexandros,
Andromache known as the audience assumes (Varro ling. 7, 82).

Our buttons may occasionally lack lustre; we may cherish
unorthodox notions as to the correct method of presenting arms; we
may not always present an unbroken front on the parade-ground--but we
_can_ dig! Even the fact that we do not want to, cannot altogether
eradicate a truly human desire to "show off." "Each man to his art,"
we say. We are quite content to excel in ours, the oldest in the
world. We know enough now about the conditions of the present war to
be aware that when we go out on service only three things will really
count--to march; to dig; and to fire, upon occasion, fifteen rounds
a minute. Our rapid fire is already fair; we can march more than a
little; and if men who have been excavating the bowels of the earth
for eight hours a day ever since they were old enough to swing a pick
cannot make short work of a Hampshire chalk down, they are no true
members of their Trades Union or the First Hundred Thousand.

We have stuck to the phraseology of our old calling.

"Whaur's ma drawer?" inquires Private Hogg, a thick-set young man with
bandy legs, wiping his countenance with a much-tattooed arm. He
has just completed five strenuous minutes with a pick. "Come away,
Geordie, wi' yon shovel!"

The shovel is preceded by an adjective. It is the only adjective that
A Company knows. (No, not that one. The second on the list!)

Mr. George Ogg steps down into the breach, and sets to work. He is a
small man, strongly resembling the Emperor of China in a third-rate
provincial pantomime. His weapon is the spade. In civil life he would
have shovelled the broken coal into a "hutch," and "hurled" it away to
the shaft. That was why Private Hogg referred to him as a "drawer." In
his military capacity he now removes the chalky soil from the trench
with great dexterity, and builds it up into a neat parapet behind, as
a precaution against the back-blast of a "Black Maria."

There are not enough, picks and shovels to go round--_cela va sans
dire_. However, Private Mucklewame and others, who are not of the
delving persuasion, exhibit no resentment. Digging is not their
department. If you hand them a pick and shovel and invite them to
set to work, they lay the pick upon the ground beside the trench and
proceed to shovel earth over it until they have lost it. At a later
stage in this great war-game they will fight for these picks and
shovels like wild beasts. Shrapnel is a sure solvent of professional
etiquette.

However, to-day the pickless squad are lined up a short distance away
by the relentless Captain Wagstaffe, and informed--

"You are under fire from that wood. Dig yourselves in!"

Digging oneself in is another highly unpopular fatigue. First of
all you produce your portable entrenching-tool--it looks like a
combination of a modern tack-hammer and a medieval back-scratcher--and
fit it to its haft. Then you lie flat upon your face on the wet grass,
and having scratched up some small lumps of turf, proceed to build
these into a parapet. Into the hole formed by the excavation of the
turf you then put your head, and in this ostrich-like posture await
further instructions. Private Mucklewame is of opinion that it would
be equally effective, and infinitely less fatiguing, simply to lie
down prone and close the eyes.

After Captain Wagstaffe has criticised the preliminary parapets--most
of them are condemned as not being bullet-proof--the work is
continued. It is not easy, and never comfortable, to dig lying down;
but we must all learn to do it; so we proceed painfully to construct a
shallow trough for our bodies and an annexe for our boots. Gradually
we sink out of sight, and Captain Wagstaffe, standing fifty yards to
our front, is able to assure us that he can now see nothing--except
Private Mucklewame's lower dorsal curve.

By this time the rain has returned for good, and the short winter day
is drawing to a gloomy close. It is after three, and we have been
working, with one brief interval, for nearly five hours. The signal is
given to take shelter. We huddle together under the leafless trees,
and get wetter.

Next comes the order to unroll greatcoats. Five minutes later comes
another--to fall in. Tools are counted; there is the usual maddening
wait while search is made for a missing pick. But at last the final
word of command rings out, and the sodden, leaden-footed procession
sets out on its four-mile tramp home.

We are not in good spirits. One's frame of mind at all times depends
largely upon what the immediate future has to offer; and, frankly,
we have little to inspire us in that direction at present. When we
joined, four long months ago, there loomed largely and splendidly
before our eyes only two alternatives--victory in battle or death with
honour. We might live, or we might die; but life, while it lasted,
would not lack great moments. In our haste we had overlooked the
long dreary waste which lay--which always lies--between dream and
fulfilment. The glorious splash of patriotic fervour which launched us
on our way has subsided; we have reached mid-channel; and the haven
where we would be is still afar off. The brave future of which we
dreamed in our dour and uncommunicative souls seems as remote as ever,
and the present has settled down into a permanency.

To-day, for instance, we have tramped a certain number of miles; we
have worked for a certain number of hours; and we have got wet through
for the hundredth time. We are now tramping home to a dinner which
will probably not be ready, because, as yesterday, it has been cooked
in the open air under weeping skies. While waiting for it, we shall
clean the same old rifle. When night falls, we shall sleep uneasily
upon a comfortless floor, in an atmosphere of stale food and damp
humanity. In the morning we shall rise up reluctantly, and go forth,
probably in heavy rain, to our labour until the evening--the same
labour and the same evening. We admit that it can't be helped: the
officers and the authorities do their best for us under discouraging
circumstances: but there it is. Out at the front, we hear, men
actually get as much as three days off at a time--three days of hot
baths and abundant food and dry beds. To us, in our present frame of
mind, that seems worth any number of bullets and frost-bites.

And--bitterest thought of all--New Year's Day, with all its convivial
associations, is only a few weeks away. When it comes, the folk at
home will celebrate it, doubtless with many a kindly toast to the lads
"oot there," and the lads "doon there." But what will that profit us?
In this barbarous country we understand that they take no notice of
the sacred festival at all. There will probably be a route-march, to
keep us out of the public-houses.

_Et patiti, et patita_. Are we fed up? YES!

As we swing down the village street, slightly cheered by a faint aroma
of Irish stew--the cooks have got the fires alight after all--the
adjutant rides up, and reins in his horse beside our company
commander.

Battalion orders of some kind! Probably a full-dress parade, to trace
a missing bayonet!

Presently he rides away; and Captain Blaikie, instead of halting and
dismissing us in the street as usual, leads us down an alley into the
backyard which serves as our apology for a parade-ground. We form
close column of platoons, stand at ease, and wait resignedly.

Then Captain Blaikie's voice falls upon our ears.

"A Company, I have an announcement to make to you. His Majesty the
King--"

So that is it. Another Royal Review! Well, it will be a break in the
general monotony.

"--who has noted your hard work, good discipline, and steady progress
with the keenest satisfaction and pride--"

We are not utterly forgotten, then.

"--has commanded that every man in the battalion is to have seven
days' full leave of absence."

"A-a-ah!" We strain our tingling ears.

"We are to go by companies, a week at a time. 'C' will go first."

"C" indeed! Who are "C," to--?

"A Company's leave--_our_ leave--will begin on the twenty-eighth of
December, and extend to the third of January."

The staccato words sink slowly in, and then thoughts come tumbling.

"Free--free on New Year's Day! Almichty! Free to gang hame! Free
tae--"

Then comes an icy chill upon our hearts. How are we to get home?
Scotland is hundreds of miles away. The fare, even on a "soldier's"
ticket--

But the Captain has not quite finished.

"Every man will receive a week's pay in advance; and his fare, home
and back, will be paid by Government. That is all."

And quite enough too! We rock upon our squelching feet. But the
Captain adds, without any suspicion of his parade-ground manner--

"If I may say so, I think that if ever men deserved a good holiday,
you do. Company, slope arms! Dis-_miss_!"

       *       *       *       *       *

We do not cheer: we are not built that way. But as we stream off to
our Irish stew, the dourest of us says in his heart--

"God Save the King!"


X

DEEDS OF DARKNESS


A moonlit, wintry night. Four hundred men are clumping along the
frost-bound road, under the pleasing illusion that because they are
neither whistling nor talking they are making no noise.

At the head of the column march Captains Mackintosh and Shand, the
respective commanders of C and D Companies. Occasionally Mackintosh,
the senior, interpolates a remark of a casual or professional nature.
To all these his colleague replies in a low and reproachful whisper.
The pair represent two schools of military thought--a fact of which
their respective subalterns are well aware,--and act accordingly.

"In preparing troops for active service, you must make the conditions
as _real_ as possible from the very outset," postulates Shand.
"Perform all your exercises just as you would in war. When you dig
trenches, let every man work with his weather-eye open and his rifle
handy, in case of sudden attack. If you go out on night operations
don't advertise your position by stopping to give your men a
recitation. No talking--no smoking--no unnecessary delay or exposure!
Just go straight to your point of deployment, and do what you came out
to do."

To this Mackintosh replies,--

"That's all right for trained troops. But ours aren't half-trained
yet; all our work just now is purely educational. It's no use
expecting a gang of rivet-heaters from Clydebank to form an elaborate
outpost line, just because you whispered a few sweet nothings in the
dark to your leading section of fours! You simply _must_ explain every
step you take, at present."

But Shand shakes his head.

"It's not soldierly," he sighs.

Hence the present one-sided--or apparently one-sided--dialogue. To the
men marching immediately behind, it sounds like something between a
soliloquy and a chat over the telephone.

I know the answer only too well, "it makes us fun [7]; gemüthlich
it is us."

Chorus of Göttingen, Rostock, Greifswald, Kiel, it makes us fun,
it is gemüthlich us, we will be comfortable with that!

In Jena, Heidelberg, Berlin, Bonn, where we come from and where our two
to three together, because it is in our midst. It belongs to the
essence of the North German team and the country would not be a good
Holsat or Meklenburger or Oldenburger, not platitudes at least three
body had flat (cap) on his head, flat (folder) unter'm arm and the
love in Plattsburgh lips. O youth, academic, flower of the North
Germans, was not so duftlos.

Dufte something to the spirit of the ancients - I mean not your own
- bethaue your flowers and leaves with a little wet from the Hippokrene,
penetrating them with a little oil from the lamp of philosophy,
feel, feel just the least hot Thräne of resentment and pain, which
the genius of your homeland to you herabträufelt.

O youth, academic, he is bad when you probably is. Mephistopheles laughs
freely and spöttelt about this and if he Auerbachs you in the basement
flat and wellbeing sit looks like he calls to his companions:
As you see now how easy is it live? The tribes will be given every
day for celebration.

As has been the days of Faustus changed the world, what is not
everything in the last 30 in the last 13 in the last 3 years and
that of people is still the old one gone?

Where does it come from? Where does it go?

There are exceptions, as it should not.

But I'm talking about, as always in this type of large clusters, and
at our universities is still the old master and the Platt Deutsche
his stubborn root. It has almost seems as the farmer would only lead
by example and the language vorangehn education against the rawness
of the dialect of one, before the student decides to.

Nöthiger How Some Thäter it to even the appearance of his stand in
conversation and dealing with educated to save. I's ashamed to say,
what experiences I have made. Nöthiger How does it but everyone,
is constantly in a language to move to it until the reign of his
knowledge will help, as Nöthiger Anyone who is a language entschlagen
which this rule and begrudges dispute makes that look like the dull
lichtlose chaos behind his planned world lurks. any calls on the
High German language exercise, lots of exercise.

It is a not so in the mouth, such as the French French. The talent
is ready and familiar way, is still an uncommon, at least in northern
Germany. Language and thought, language and learning are often
ungeheuersten imbalances.

Far be it from me, the mere flow of words that loquaciousness as a
virtue to praise. But this word fear, this word plague, which infests
so many speakers, this stuttering, rings, wheels and Brächen, often
at the end but just a bit eccentric or trivial to light promotes
all shows at our scholars on a dismal inadequacy between Todt and
Studiren lively exchange out. From this side, shows the alleged
Uebel stand at German universities in the North ugly light. The
efficiency can hardly head against the mass of the manufacture,
predefined, positive help that is so regularly as the water mill Rinnenguß
a day to penetrate him. It includes elastic Denkfibern, happy memory
(also happy forget), and especially friends talks about the
eternal Nothwehr with success and the most sacred property of the
personality, the Stoffbeherrschende, self, selbstdenkende I victoriously
davonzutragen. In particular, conversations friends, I say.
Einsames learning, still collecting, viewing, thinking are necessarily,
but who can not speak, smothered, is confused, chaotic and just
the mental state of most of those scholars whose speech I have just
as language anxiety and language means that scourge.

What colors should I baroque, ridiculously sad state of mind of a
flattened mass portray German students.

_Ochsen_ Called themselves the mechanical work that they Behuf
examinations performed daily. Every day they are busy pushing their
carts Pandekten, Dogmatik etc. in the barn of her memory. If there's
daily workload to Hauf, it stretches it out, it's lie, and where it
lies - will gemüthlich, flat German. _Humaniora_, Refreshing, invigorating
higher hinantreibende talks, they hear not, or they do not get to hear,
because, unfortunately, in many places the _Humaniora_ only be read as
antiques. Sounds as sometimes it is not irony, when the farmer's
son, or the Amtmanns, Schulze, a Studeermakergesellen called? - O
norddeutsche, studirende youth, take the flat from the mouth! * * * *
* Up to here I was writing a friend defeats out.

I asked this to be Urtheil. I'm surprised, "he said after some
hesitation I have about the influence of the flat German language
not previously thought, and the like probably is the case with the
majority of future readers of this arc to be. Nothing destoweniger I
have this influence dark and unpleasant, he does, especially if you
are from the south to return to a similar impression, as the changed
atmosphere, Fahle the air and the frequent rainy weather of the North.
It is burned as a necessarily Naturübel. Alone with the language,
it is another aim.

You are right, if you have previously expressed that we need themselves
against the necessary, the physical or moral order belongs in position.
You have given me, may I say the breast properly facilitated by me
on a certain enemy country attention, with the extermination of the
field for the norddeutsche Civilization seems won. This is and must
be reading your script, the feeling of all the patriots who are in
this time as Alpdrücken in the heart. O well! o well! Platt The German
language is an absolute barriers of public life, education and humanity
in Lower Saxony. As long as that language belongs to the common life,
are, as before, Mastochsen, geese westphälische breasts and ham
are the main products of our Civilization remain. Against Civilization
itself makes the flat German language is not only indifferent
but hostile and treacherous it. Why is that not long ago raised the
subject of the liveliest and most general interest. They forget
I said that Voß, Harms, Scheller, Bärmann and other Theilnahme the
brave men of the audience for that language, even for a literature
written in the same, have in themselves.

I know he erwiederte, I have others under the "_Bloottügen_," Henrik
of the Züphten by Pastor Harms read. At that time I thought nothing
else, being that such a book Plattdeutsch inconvenient and difficult
to read and probably even more uncomfortable to write it. What of the
Henrik Züphten betrift, I noticed on the other hand, it seems to me
that the Constitution Mißgriff monsters in the choice of the substance
to have done. I guess the old Dithmarsen very high. They were a
brave, unbezähmlicher properly for freedom and independence of
people thirsting, farmers on horseback with the Schwerdt in hand, the
Swiss of the North, or rather Wittekind Saxony and his unbowed and
unbroken until grandchildren's fifteenth and sixteenth century.

Only I do not know whether a Lutheran pastor from today, even if he
geborner Dithmarse is such a perfectly pagan Mannheit justice can
proceed, because obwol the dithmarsische size and freedom in Christian
times fell and the veneration of the Virgin Mary in this country just
has been driven higher, than it seems, andeswo in the north, but it was
highly mobile and fun sense of the battle by residents only a very
weak staining Christian hard and want the breast a bold Dithmarsers
out of fear of the sky, the clergy or Christian Demuth Gewissenszartheit
own the superior Muth how such in the books of the medieval knight
reads. But it may be so, as it wants, I must confess that I do
not have priests to wish story writer, especially not for
Dithmarsischen.

What I noticed, however, was that Pastor Harms grade is a moment in
the history dithmarsischen had chosen to German flat representation,
as on the cutting manner with the altväterischen, Bonhommie
rough, which he received in that language nachrühmt, stands
in contrast: the martyrdom the first Lutheran preacher in Dithmarsen.
These cold Wuthe, this mockery of human feeling, this trace all
merciful, so here the poor man a slow and dreadful death survived, makes
not only in itself an evil spot in the dithmarsischen history, but also
recalls the very inopportune moment, that this Lower Saxony best
bred men who Dithmarsen, always in addition to their bravery and
iron custom, with Asian barbarism of insensitivity against enemy
and friend gewetteifert have what the want, however, on a rough and
raw, but not on such an "old and gemüthliche" language suggest how
it's like one of our peaceful and gutmüthigen Philistine today
understood. - Insert or Add to this my friend said that the Dithmarsen
the present, is still quite flat German, and where even the best
really flat [8] is spoken, neither moral nor social contact in a
very shiny Praise seems to admit the same.

The Armuth, drunkenness due to enormous number of fires in killing
Dithmarsen indicate a very sunken moral and civil condition. Just
he, with a wonderful zeal for the dissemination of religious and moral
life flames filled Pastor Harms, in his patriotic writings about
pain pronounced.

What can he, I say with the fullest conviction of the Mithülfe
expect a language which all Mittheilung unbesiegliche barriers and
prevent the true grave of the higher life.

It stands to be hoped that a Patriot dithmarsischer the negative
influence of language on the progress of Civilsation and even nicer
to the humanity of a single excellent education from the general public
may transfer your script to Dithmarsen and Dithmarsen as they are
and what they means of their language and only can be.

Your wish is mine, I will miss him, how about our conversation, before
bringing the audience's, as my essay integrirenden Theil. Because,
believe me, without your added comment, I would never surrender the
same to have determined. You joking, or want to say something to me
it is not clear.

Listen to only yourself and urtheilen I have searched show that the
German platt sowol language itself is incapable, the germs of
Civilization as well as to act as long as they are everyday colloquial
language would remain in Lower Saxony, all efforts to Civilization
by means of the High German language must be frustrating.

I have this truth is not confined to the lower circles, I have sought
to make tangible, as, without losing general education, the higher
education of individuals at risk and that, for example, the extremes
of the current head of our culture, peasant and student or Studirter
, are in the same raw and educational medium loose touch again.

I have, I feel comforted and the public voice will leave this with
fisticuffs inescapable proof, I will, however, the consistency of
all patriots in the assertion certainly, it was not desired that the
already dying vermodernde flat and German languages, cherished
will, on the contrary it sey Theil desired that they vary depending
rather prefer the kingdoms of living lose.

And so would be good because in the case verhofften here and there
a view, a view of the desires and values as not desired in this
matter publicly suggested.

But tell me what is a private opinion, a pious wish to have, in the
face of a public asset, or resistance, says nothing and hopes the
only way is to serve its broad feet to its crude and thoughtless
existence of all opinions to push through it and despite all the
opinions on his feet to argue about until he falls down by itself,
opinions and views we have in abundance, vortrefliche.

What's missing? On the corporate opinion, which public opinion is
that That with him.

I would otherwise, if I am not the outward and fruitless Hermeinen
the audience too well yet, I am answering the question open ironic
that whether the sinking of the desired language calm himself and
the time left or something that thun same speed as should?

You want to see but that I do not Ernst may have been, because, the
true and vivid representation of a great sin, and not directly
opposite the quest, the desire and the scout for funds to put out
the same, so everything is more speeches and coaxing purely
superfluous, if not, as some Maaßregeln against cholera, with äußerm
coercion and obrigkeitlichem command is connected.

I know not what I said that in view, a matter for the representative
of many North Germans.

The truth is you do not make their full impression misses,
you are looking forward to their general dull Mißmuth against a
specific enemy to see you ponder on means to attack him, you hold
a general and lively interest, therefore, be quite effective in the
case justified.

"Look at the way girls have given up fussing over
clothes and things, and taken to nursing."

"My poor young friend," said the voice of the middle-aged Kemp, "tell
me honestly, would you like to be attended to by some of the young
women who have recently taken up the nursing profession?"

"Rather!" said Bobby, with thoughtless fervour.

"I didn't say _one_," Kemp pointed out, amid laughter, "but _some_.
Of course we all know of one. Even I do. It's the rule, not the
exception, that we are dealing with just now."

Bobby, realising that he had been unfairly surprised in a secret, felt
glad that the darkness covered his blushes.

"Well, take my tip," continued Kemp, "and avoid amateur ministering
angels, my son. I studied the species in South Africa. For twenty-four
hours they nurse you to death, and after that they leave you to perish
of starvation. Women in war-time are best left at home."

A youthful paladin in the gloom timidly mentioned the name of Florence
Nightingale.

"One Nightingale doesn't make a base hospital," replied Kemp. "I
take off my hat--we all do--to women who are willing to undergo the
drudgery and discomfort which hospital training involves. But I'm
not talking about Florence Nightingales. The young person whom I am
referring to is just intelligent enough to understand that the only
possible thing to do this season is to nurse. She qualifies herself
for her new profession by dressing up like one of the chorus of
'The Quaker Girl,' and getting her portrait, thus attired, into the
'Tatler.' Having achieved this, she has graduated. She then proceeds
to invade any hospital that is available, where she flirts with
everything in pyjamas, and freezes you with a look if you ask her to
empty a basin or change your sheets. I know her! I've had some, and I
know her! She is one of the minor horrors of war. In peace-time she
goes out on Alexandra Day, and stands on the steps of men's clubs and
pesters the members to let her put a rose in their button-holes. What
such a girl wants is a good old-fashioned mother who knows how to put
a slipper to its right use!"

"I don't think," observed Wagstaffe, since Kemp had apparently
concluded his philippic, "that young girls are the only people who
lose their heads. Consider all the poisonous young blighters that one
sees about town just now. Their uplift is enormous, and their manners
in public horrid; and they hardly know enough about their new job to
stand at attention when they hear 'God Save the King.' In fact, they
deserve to be nursed by your little friends, Bobby!"

"They are all that you say," conceded Kemp. "But after all, they do
have a fairly stiff time of it on duty, and they are going to have a
much stiffer time later on. And they are not going to back out when
the romance of the new uniform wears off, remember. Now these girls
will play the angel-of-mercy game for a week or two, and then jack up
and confine their efforts to getting hold of a wounded officer and
taking him to the theatre. It is _dernier cri_ to take a wounded
officer about with you at present. Wounded officers have quite
superseded Pekinese, I am told."

"Women certainly are the most extraordinary creatures," mused Ayling,
a platoon commander of "B." "In private life I am a beak at a public
school--"

"What school?" inquired several voices. Ayling gave the name, found
that there were two of the school's old boys present, and continued--

"Just as I was leaving to join this battalion, the Head received
a letter from a boy's mother intimating that she was obliged to
withdraw her son, as he had received a commission in the army for the
duration of the war. She wanted to know if the Head would keep her
son's place open for him until he came back! What do you think of
that?"

"Sense of proportion wasn't invented when women were made," commented
Kemp. "But we are wandering from the subject, which is: what
advantages are we, personally, deriving from the war? Wagger, what are
you getting out of it?"

"Half-a-crown a day extra pay as Assistant Adjutant," replied
Wagstaffe laconically. "Ainslie, wake up and tell us what the war
has done for you, since you abandoned the Stock Exchange and took to
foot-slogging."

"Certainly," replied Ainslie. "A year ago I spent my days trying to
digest my food, tind my nights trying to sleep. I was not at all
successful in either enterprise. I can now sit down to a supper of
roast pork and bottled stout, go to bed directly afterwards, sleep all
night, and wake up in the morning without thinking unkind things
of anybody--not even my relations-in-law! Bless the Kaiser, say I!
Borrodaile, what about you? Any complaints?"

"Thank you," replied Borrodaile's dry voice; "there are no complaints.
In civil life I am what is known as a 'prospective candidate.' For
several years I have been exercising this, the only, method of
advertising permitted to a barrister, by nursing a constituency. That
is, I go down to the country once a week, and there reduce myself to
speechlessness soliciting the votes of the people who put my opponent
in twenty years ago, and will keep him in by a two thousand majority
as long as he cares to stand. I have been at it five years, but so far
the old gentleman has never so much as betrayed any knowledge of my
existence."

"That must be rather galling," said Wagstaffe.

"Ah! but listen! Of course party politics have now been merged in the
common cause--see local organs, _passim_--and both sides are working
shoulder to shoulder for the maintenance of our national existence."

"_Applause!_" murmured Kemp.

"That is to say," continued Borrodaile with calm relish, "my opponent,
whose strong suit for the last twenty years has been to cry down the
horrors of militarism, and the madness of national service, and the
unwieldy size of the British Empire, is now compelled to spend his
evenings taking the chair at mass meetings for the encouragement of
recruiting. I believe the way in which he eats up his own previous
utterances on the subject is quite superb. On these occasions I always
send him a telegram, containing a kindly pat on the back for him and
a sort of semi-official message for the audience. He has to read this
out on the platform!"

"What sort of message?" asked a delighted voice.

"Oh--_Send along some more of our boys. Lord Kitchener says there
are none to touch them. Borrodaile, Bruce and Wallace Highlanders_.
Or--_All success to the meeting, and best thanks to you personally for
carrying on in my absence. Borrodaile, Bruce and Wallace Highlanders_.
I have a lot of quiet fun," said Borrodaile meditatively, "composing
those telegrams. I rather fancy"--he examined the luminous watch on
his wrist--"it's five minutes past eight: I rather fancy the old thing
is reading one now!"

The prospective candidate leaned back against the damp wall of the
dug-out with a happy sigh. "What have you got out of the war, Ayling?"
he inquired.

"Change," said Ayling.

"For better or worse?"

"If you had spent seven years in a big public school," said Ayling,
"teaching exactly the same thing, at exactly the same hour, to exactly
the same kind of boy, for weeks on end, what sort of change would you
welcome most?"

"Death," said several voices.

"Nothing of the kind!" said Ayling warmly. "It's a great life, if you
are cut out for it. But there is no doubt that the regularity of the
hours, and the absolute certainty of the future, make a man a bit
groovy. Now in this life we are living we have to do lots of dull or
unpleasant things, but they are never quite the same things. They
are progressive, and not circular, if you know what I mean; and the
immediate future is absolutely unknown, which is an untold blessing.
What about you, Sketchley?"

A fat voice replied--

"War is good for adipose Special Reservists. I have decreased four
inches round the waist since October. Next?"

So the talk ran on. Young Lochgair, heir to untold acres in the far
north and master of unlimited pocket-money, admitted frankly that the
sum of eight-and-sixpence per day, which he was now earning by the
sweat of his brow and the expenditure of shoe-leather, was sweeter to
him than honey in the honeycomb. Hattrick, who had recently put up a
plate in Harley Street, said it was good to be earning a living wage
at last. Mr. Waddell, pressed to say a few words of encouragement of
the present campaign, delivered himself of a guarded but illuminating
eulogy of war as a cure for indecision of mind; from which, coupled
with a coy reference to "some one" in distant St. Andrews, the company
were enabled to gather that Mr. Waddell had carried a position with
his new sword which had proved impregnable to civilian assault.

Only Bobby Little was silent. In all this genial symposium there had
been no word of the spur which was inciting him--and doubtless the
others--along the present weary and monotonous path; and on the whole
he was glad that it should be so. None of us care to talk, even
privately, about the Dream of Honour and the Hope of Glory. The only
difference between Bobby and the others was that while they could
cover up their aspirations with a jest, Bobby must say all that was in
his heart, or keep silent. So he held his peace.

A tall figure loomed against the starlit sky, and Captain Wagstaffe,
who had been out in the trench, spoke quickly to Major Kemp:--

"I thing we had better get to our places, sir. Some criminal has cut
my alarm-cord!"


It was in the Senate decided that the threat does not come back
that are Flamininus' untimely Mildenberg Rome had brought about.

Macedonia was destroyed. At the conference to Amphipolis on the
Strymon, the Roman Commission, the dissolution of the solid enclosed
by unit and by monarchical state in four, according to the scheme
of the Greek Confederation tailored-republican federal Gemeindebuende,
by Amphipolis in the eastern landscape of the Thessalon with Chalkidiki
Peninsula, from Pella to border of Thessaly and the Pelagonia
inland.

Between marriages among members of the various Confederation were
invalid, and no one was allowed in more than one resident of the
same.

All the royal officials and their adult sons had to leave the country
and go to Italy, where the death penalty - you are still afraid, and
rightly so, the twitching of the old loyalties. The Land Law and the
existing constitution remained there, the officials were, of course,
by municipal elections and appointed within the communities as the
Buende the power in the hands of the nobles laid.

The royal domain and the Regalien the Confederation were not allowed,
including the gold and silver mines, a major wealth of the country,
forbidden to work, but was 596 (138) at least the exploitation of
silver mines again allowed ^ 5th The import of salt, the export of
shipbuilding wood were forbidden. The past in the Koenig property
tax paid fell away, and it remained for the Confederation and the
municipalities can chose to tax themselves, but they had half of
the existing property for a once and for all established record 100
talents together annually (170000 thalers), to Rome to pay ^ 6 The
whole country was disarmed for perpetuity, the fortress Demetrias
down only to the northern boundary should be a chain against
the incursions of the barbarians remain.

Among the weapons were delivered, the copper shields sent to Rome, the
rest burned. ---------------------------------- ^ 5 --------
Specifying Cassiodors that in the year 596 (158), the Macedonian
mines reopened, obtained their qualification through the Muenzen.
Makedonien Goldmuenzen of the four are not available, so the gold
mines were either closed or it was obtained as gold ingots recovered.
On the other hand, however, the first Silbermuenzen Macedonia
(Amphipolis), in which district the silver mines are located, for
a short time in which they must be beaten (596-608 158-146), the
number of large and strikingly demonstrates either a very energetic
operation of mines or of mass of the old king Umpraegung
money. ^ 6 If the Macedonian community by Roemer of manorial obligations
and duties relieved ward '(Polyb. 37, 4), it need not therefore
be necessary for a subsequent adoption of this tax was adopted to
be enough to explain it by Polybios' words that were previously
seigniorial council tax was now.

The survival of the province of Macedonia Constitutional Paullus
given up at least in the August time (Liv. 45, 32; IUST. 33, 2)
would certainly also with the adoption of the tax can unite.
--------- ------------------------------- It reached its end. The
country has twice Macedonian nor on the reputation of princes from
the old home to the rulers grabbed weapons, and is, moreover, from
that time to this day remains without history.

Illyria was treated similarly. The Empire of the Genthios was
divided into three small states cut free, but the residents here to pay
half of the existing property tax to their new masters, with the
exception of the cities that the Romans had kept, and were given
the freedom to get property tax - an exception to the Makedonien
no reason provided.

The Illyrian pirate fleet was confiscated and the most prestigious
Greek communities on this coast gift. The eternal suffering that
Illyria's neighbors including through their Corsairs inflicted,
had at least this long, an end.

Kotys in Thrace, the hard to reach, and occasionally against Eumenes
need was forgiveness and received his captive son back.

Thus, the ratio sort northern Macedonia and finally from the yoke of
the monarchy proceeds - in fact, Greece was freer than ever, a king
is never lost. But it is not confined to Macedonia tendons and nerves
cut.

It was decided in the Senate, all the Hellenic states, friend and
foe, and for all, and render them together in the same humble
hinabzudruecken clientele.

The case itself may be justifiable, just the sort of design
particularly against the powerful Greek clientele among the states
is a major power is not worthy and shows that the era of Fabien
and Scipione ends.

The worst hit of this role change to those state, the creation of
Rome and was considered large for Macedonia to keep in check, and
now after the destruction of Macedonia no longer needed, the kingdom
of Attalides.

It was not easy against the wise and prudent Eumenes a tolerable
pretext to find him in his preferred position to oust him in disgrace
and be dropped.

Suddenly there came the time when the Romans in the camp stood at
Herakleion, strange rumors about him circulating, it is with
Perseus in secret communications; suddenly had its fleet as weggeweht
been, for its failure to participate in the campaign he had 500,
for mediation of the 1500 peace talents have been offered, and only
on Perseus' stinginess had broken the contract.

What pergamenische the fleet is concerned, the King went with her,
as is the Roman went into winter quarters, is also home to the
consul after he had made his respects.

The bribery story is a fairy tale as safe as any Zeitungsente today
because of that rich, clever and consistent Attalides the rupture
between Rome and Macedonia through its journey 582 (172) First had
led, and nearly so of Perseus' bandits have been killed would, at
the moment, where the main difficulties of war had been overcome,
at whose output finite accountable never could have seriously doubted
that he had his share of the loot his murder by a few talented and
sells the work of long years of such a wretched set should have,
then, is not only lied, but lied very silly.

That there is no evidence either in Perseus' securities or otherwise
is that interrupts is safe enough, because even the Romans dared
not, those suspicions out loud.

But they had their purpose.

What we wanted to show the behavior of the Great Roman against
Attalus, Eumenes' brother, the auxiliary troops pergamenischen in
Greece had commanded.

With open arms was the comrade brave and faithful in Rome to receive
and not for his brother, but to ask for - like the Senate he will be
a separate kingdom grant Attalos asked nothing more than Aenos
and Maroneia. The Senate said that this is only a preliminary
request and had confessed to you with great too. But when he
departed, without any further claims to have, and the Senate came
to the insight that the Regent pergamenische family is not so live,
as in the traditional royal houses, was Aenos and Maroneia to
Freistaedten explained.

Not a foot wide, the country received from the Macedonian Pergamon
prey, it was after Antiochos' defeat against Philippos still spared
the forms, so now we wanted to injure and humiliate.

At this time the Senate seems Pamphylia, which owns about Eumenes
and Antiochus previously argued, to have declared independence.

More important was that the Galatians, so far mainly in the violence
of Eumenes, having the same Pontic king by force of arms from Galati
and distributed peace in the promise he had abgenoetigt, with the
gala Fuersten not connect them also want to entertain, now, without
doubt, to the computing between Eumenes and the Romans had been
tension, if not outright from these causes, is levied against
Eumenes, his kingdom and flooded he brought in great danger.

Eumenes asked the Roman teaching, the Roman envoy was ready, but
said that Attalos, the army commanded pergamenische, better not to
respond to the savages not to put out, and strangely, he did nothing,
so he told in return that its placement until the savages had quite
fierce.

It was not long, it was the independence of the Galatians of the
Senate expressly recognized and guaranteed. Eumenes decided to
personally go to Rome and the Senate to lead his cause. As suddenly
decided that, as plagued by evil conscience, that kings should no
longer come to Rome should be allowed, and sent him to a Brundisium
Quaestor preclude him this decision to the Senate, to ask him
what he wanted, and he indicated that one Schleuniger his departure
would like to see. The king remained silent for long, he desire, he
said at last, nothing more and embarked again. He saw how it was the
epoch of halbmaechtigen and semi-federal cooperative had come to an
end, it began the powerless Untertaenigkeit. Similar fared the
Rhodiern.

Their position was unbelievably preference with Rome they were not in
actual Symmachie, but in a same Freundschaftsverhaeltnis that they
are not prevented, alliances of any kind to take and not coerced,
the Romans, on request, to afford influx. Thought it was just the
latest cause, why their agreement with Rome for some time been
tarnished. The first Zerwuerfnisse with Rome had taken place due to
the revolt of Antiochus' overcome them against their allotted Lycian
Zwingherren, they (576 178) as a renegade subjects knechteten in
cruel ways, but these allegations, not subjects, but allies of
Rhodier to be and so penetrated by the Roman Senate, when asked
the same had the dubious sense of peace Instruments noted. This
was justified However, a sympathy with, arg depressed most people
probably did, least of Rome was nothing more, and you had it like
other Hellenistic Hader go.

When the war broke out with Perseus saw him Rhodier Although
like all other Greeks understood reluctantly, and, as an instigator
of that Eumenes was appointed Uebel, so that even his celebration
legation in celebration of Helios in Rhodes was dismissed.
This alone does not prevent it, firmly in Rome and to the
Macedonian party which is everywhere as well as in Rhodes was not
at the helm to let the still 585 (169) granted them permission to
execute grain from Sicily, demonstrates the continuation of the
good agreement with Rome.

Suddenly appeared shortly before the battle of Pydna Rhodian envoys
in the Roman headquarters and in the Roman Senate with the declaration
that the Rhodier no longer would tolerate this war, the Macedonian on
their trade and port revenue pressures that are and that they are
the party who refuse to make peace, even the war-minded to declare
that, to this end with Crete and with the Asian cities concluded
an alliance had said. In a republic with Urversammlungen much
possible, but this mad intervention of a commercial city, which only
can be decided, as in the case of Rhodes Tempe passport knew, requires
further explanation. The keys are well authenticated message that the
consul Quintus Marcius, that master of the "new-fangled diplomacy"
in the camp at Herakleion, after occupation of the Temple passport, the
Rhodian envoys Agepolis with style and overwhelmed him at the hands
had been requested, the peace to convey. Republican Verkehrte and
vanity did the rest, you said that the Romans gave to lose, you would
like between four Grossmaechten also played the mediator - with links
to Perseus margins; Rhodian envoys of Macedonian spirit told more
than they say, and you was caught. The Senate, without a doubt the most
even of those intrigues knew nothing, heard the wondrous message of
Indignation understood and was pleased about the opportunity to
purchase wanton humiliation of the city. A war was even funnier
praetor so far in which the People's declaration of war
against Rhodes to ask. In vain the Rhodian envoys summoned over
once the other kniefaellig the Senate, the hundertundvierzigjaehrigen
friendship more than one failure to remember, vain they sent the
heads of the Macedonian party on the scaffold or to Rome, sent free
by a heavy gold ring as thanks for the failure to declaration of war.

The honest Cato showed that although the Rhodier nothing crime had said
and asked if we wanted to start, wishes and thoughts and if you punish
the peoples concern verargen assurance that everything possible
Roemer want, when they no longer fear would. His words and
warnings were in vain.

The Senate adopted the Rhodiern their possessions on the mainland,
an annual income of 120 talents (200000 thalers) abwarfen. Heavier still
fell the blows against the Rhodian trade. Even the bans on salt import
into and export of wooden shipbuilding from Makedonia seem directed
against Rhodes. Immediate still met the Rhodian trade delischen the
establishment of the free and the Rhodian port tariff, which had
1 million annually Drachmas (286000 Taler) was dropped, fell in a
short time to 150000 drachmas (43000 thalers). Overnight but
were the main Rhodier in their freedom and thereby in its
free trade policy and kuehne paralyzed, and the state began to
Siech.

Even the initially requested Buendnis was amputated, and only 590
(164) after repeated requests renewed.

The equally guilty, but powerless Cretans came with a rough reference
of them. With Syria and Egypt could be shorter work to go.

Between the two was war erupted once again over Koilesyrien and
Palestine. Following the assertion of the Egyptians were those provinces
in the marriage of Cleopatra to Egypt Syrian ceded been what the
court of Babylon, however, is in fact owned, was denied.

As it seems, was the statement of the dowry to the taxes of the
koilesyrischen cities has led to the rag and had the right
to Syrian side, the outbreak of war caused the death of Cleopatra
in the year 581 (173), with the latest pension payments stopped . The
war seems to come from Egypt started to be alone also Koenig Antiochus
Epiphanes gladly seized the opportunity to the traditional goal of
Seleukidenpolitik the acquisition Egypt, during the occupation of
the Romans in Macedonia once more - it should be the last time -
should be.

The luck seemed to be favorable. The then king of Egypt,
Ptolemaeos VI. Philometor, the son of Cleopatra, the boys had hardly
exceeded age and was ill-advised, after a big victory on the Syrian-Egyptian
border was Antiochos in the same year in which the legions
landed in Greece (583 171), into the territory of his nephew
indentations and soon had him in his violence. It won appear
to remember under Antiochos Philometors name, now in the
possession of the whole of Egypt to set; Alexandreia closed the
gates to him, therefore, put the Philometor and appointed in his place
the younger brother, Euergetes II or the thickness specified, to Koenig.
Unrest in his Rich called the Syrian king of Egypt from, when he came
back, had in his absence, the brothers together tolerated, and he
now sat against both the war continues. As he stood just before
Alexandreia, not long after the battle of Pydna (586 168),
took him to the Roman envoy Gaius Popillius, a tough, brusque man,
and insinuierte his command of the Senate, all captured and returned
to Egypt in a certain period to spaces. The king asked that consideration,
but the consular moved with the rod of a circle around him and told
him to declare before the district exceeded. Antiochos replied that
he obey, and went off to his residence, where as the God of the
most brilliant victory bringer, he was the conquering Egypt to
Roman custom to celebrate the triumph of Paullus be parodying.

Aegypten added voluntarily to the Roman clientele, but also the kings
of Babylon were herewith from the last attempt, their independence
against Rome to maintain. How Makedonien of Perseus in the war, so did
the Seleucids in koilesyrischen the same and equal last attempt,
their former power to recover, but it is significant for the
difference between the two empires, that there are legions, here
the harsh words of a diplomat decided.

In Greece, were themselves as allies of Perseus, after the cities
boeotischen already fined more than enough had only Molotter to
punish. The secret order of the Senate gave one days to Paullus
seventy villages in the looting Epeiros priced and sold the inhabitants,
150000 to the number, into slavery. The Aetoler lost Amphipolis, which
Akarnanen Leukas because of their ambiguous behavior, while the Athenians,
the continued drove the beggars poet Aristophanes her to play, not just
Delos and Lemnos were given a gift, but not ashamed, to the barren
site of Haliartos to petitionieren to them because even given ward.
This was something done for the Muses, but more was to be done for
the judiciary.

A Macedonian party existed in every town and thus began all over Greece,
the high treason processes. Who in Perseus' army had served, was
immediately executed, the decision was taken to Rome, whom the papers
of King, or the indication of the herbeistroemenden denouncing political
opponents konpromittierten - the Achaeer Kallikrates and Aetoler
Lykiskos distinguished themselves from this business. Thus the
well-known patriots among Thessaly, Aetolern, Akarnanen, lesbian,
and so on away from home, including over a thousand Achaeer
but, with one not so much the objective pursued, the people away to
process than the childish opposition silenced the Hellenes to make.

The Achaeern, which usually are not as happy were, until they had
the answer, she sensed, said the Senate, fatigued by the endless
requests for initiation of the investigation, finally flatly that to
continue, people would remain in Italy.

       They were interned in the Landstaedten and reasonably held, escape
attempts, however, with the death penalty, similar to the situation
of Macedonia away from former officials have been.

As it once was, it was this way, so violently he was, nor the yields
and the Greeks enragierten Roemer party very much satisfied that we do
not frequent koepfte. Lykiskos had found it expedient, therefore, the
council temporarily in 500 of the finest men of the Patriot Party
aetolischen come down to the Roman Commission, which the people
needed to let it go and censured only that these bright American country
use by Roman soldiers have enforcement. But we must believe that
they are partly to cut off such abomination, that Italian internment
system record. Because all over Greece in the true power not only
of the importance of Rhodes or Pergamon existed, so here it took a
further humiliation, rather what you did was just to avoid justice,
albeit in the Roman sense, and to practice the most annoying outbreaks
of Party Haders be removed. It was the Hellenistic states herewith
all of the Roman clientele and become completely subdue the whole
kingdom of Alexander the Great, the same as would be the city's
heritage has become heir to the Roman citizens like community. From
all sides flocked to King and the envoys to Rome in order to wish for
luck, and it showed that creeping never flattered, as if kings
antichambrieren.

(Yes, quite so. When blankets are passed from regiment
to regiment for months on end, in a camp where opportunities for
ablution are not lavish, these little things will happen.)

You put the blankets in at one end of the steriliser, turn the
necessary handles, and wait. In due course the blankets emerge,
steamed, dried, and thoroughly purged. At least, that is the idea. But
listen to Privates Ogg and Hogg, in one of their celebrated cross-talk
duologues.

_Ogg (examining his blanket)_. "They're a' there yet. See!"

_Hogg (an optimist)_. "Aye; but they must have gotten an awfu'
fricht!"

But then people like Ogg are never satisfied with anything.

However, _the_ feature of this camp is the mud. That is why it
counts ten points. There was no mud, of course, before the camp was
constructed--only dry turf, and wild yellow gorse, and fragrant
heather. But the Practical Joke Department were not to be discouraged
by the superficial beauties of nature. They knew that if you crowd
a large number of human dwellings close together, and refrain from
constructing any roads or drains as a preliminary, and fill these
buildings with troops in the rainy season, you will soon have as much
mud as ever you require. And they were quite right. The depth varies
from a few inches to about a foot. On the outskirts of the camp,
however, especially by the horse lines or going through a gate, you
may find yourself up to your knees. But, after all, what is mud! Most
of the officers have gum-boots, and the men will probably get used to
it. Life in K(1) is largely composed of getting used to things.

In the more exclusive and fashionable districts--round about
the Orderly-room, and the Canteen, and the Guard-room--elevated
"duck-walks" are laid down, along which we delicately pick our way.
It would warm the heart of a democrat to observe the ready--nay,
hasty--courtesy with which an officer, on meeting a private carrying
two overflowing buckets of kitchen refuse, steps down into the mud to
let his humble brother-in-arms pass. Where there are no duck-walks, we
employ planks laid across the mud. In comparatively dry weather these
planks lie some two or three inches below the mud, and much innocent
amusement may be derived from trying to locate them. In wet weather,
however, the planks float to the surface, and then of course
everything is plain sailing. When it snows, we feel for the planks
with our feet. If we find them we perform an involuntary and
unpremeditated ski-ing act: if we fail, we wade to our quarters
through a sort of neapolitan ice--snow on the top, mud underneath.

Our parade-ground is a mud-flat in front of the huts. Here we take our
stand each morning, sinking steadily deeper until the order is given
to move off. Then the battalion extricates itself with one tremendous
squelch, and we proceed to the labours of the day.

Seriously, though--supposing the commanding officer were to be delayed
one morning at orderly-room, and were to ride on to the parade-ground
twenty minutes late, what would he find? Nothing! Nothing but a great
_parterre_ of glengarries, perched upon the mud in long parallel rows,
each glengarry flanked on the left-hand side by the muzzle of a rifle
at the slope. (That detached patch over there on the left front,
surrounded by air-bubbles, is the band. That cavity like the crater
of an extinct volcano, in Number one Platoon of A Company, was once
Private Mucklewame.)

And yet people talk about the sinking of the _Birkenhead!_

       *       *       *       *       *

This morning some one in the Department has scored another ten points.
Word has just been received that we are to move again to-morrow--to a
precisely similar set of huts about a hundred yards away!

They are mad wags on Olympus.


XII

AND SOME FELL BY THE WAYSIDE


"_Firing parrty, revairse arrms_!"

Thus the platoon sergeant--a little anxiously; for we are new to this
feat, and only rehearsed it for a few minutes this morning.

That purpose was, of course, only very imperfectly achieved because the
association being the Senators opened enough ways, in quiet continue
to speculate, but most of these people has concluded a legal boundary
between the non-or at least not openly speculating and speculating and
making drawn initially politically pure financial aristocracy to the
side, later known as the Knights stand, whose rivalry with Mr. Booth,
the story of the next century meet. -------------------------
---------------------------- 17 ^ Liv. 21, 63 (cf.

Cic.

Verr. 5, 18, 45) speaks only of the Regulation on the sea-going
vessels, but also that the Staatsentreprisen (Redemption) law
prohibits the senator had to say Asconius (p. 94 cand tog. Orelli
) and Dio Cassius (55, 10, 5), and since Livy "any speculation for the
senator was found improper," said the law is likely to continue to
Claudian enough. -------------- --------------------------------------
Another consequence of the unilateral power of capital was the
disproportionate level of salience sterile and for the economy in
the whole and large the least productive modes. The industry, in the
first place would have to appear, was much more in the past. Trade
flourished, but he was completely passive. Not even on the northern
border seems to have been able to, for the slaves, from which the
Celtic and probably also from the German after Ariminum countries
and other markets norditalischen flow of goods to cover, was already
at least 523 (231) the export of silver money in the Celtic land
of the Roman government permitted.

In the market now do with Greece, Syria, Egypt, Cyrene, Carthage had the
necessary balance to the detriment of Italy arise. Rome began, the
capital of the Mediterranean countries and Italy in Rome soft image
to be wanted more you just can not be passive and let the trade,
like any city that is nothing more than capital is needed it leads,
with opulent indifferent to fall - we had but money enough to pay
for everything so what is needed and not needed.

In contrast, the most unproductive of all the shops, the cash trading
and uplift care, were the right seat and fortress of the Roman economy.
What finally made this even more elements to Emporbringung means a
prosperous and comfortable small stand was contained, stunted under
the unfortunate slave operation or contributed in the best case
for the propagation of the notorious Released stand for. But mostly
consumes the deep immorality, which the pure capital inwohnt economy,
which brand the company and the community and replaced the human and
patriotism by the unconditional selfishness. The better part of the
nation felt it very much alive, the seeds of ruin in that speculators
were driving, and mainly directed instinktmaessige the hatred of
the big pile as the reluctance of the state's sympathetic to the
long-pursued by the law and the letter of the law after still frowned
upon commercial lending.

It is called in a comedy this time: Truly feel like 'I am the pimp
and you Wuchrer; If those feilstehn secretly, it's doing to open
markets.

With the pubs, with their interest, schindet the people' you both.
Gnug laws has eurethalb The residents adopted; brought you ', as they
are issued, a slip is always found.

How hot water, which verkuehlt so it respects the law. vigorously as
the comedy writer said the leader of the Reform Party from Cato. "It
has something for itself," says in the preface of his statement
for agriculture, "Money to lend on interest, but it is not honorable.

Our ancestors have arranged and written in the bill that the thief
zwiefachen, the interest rate will quadruple replacement to be guilty,
which you can remove a citizen how much worse than the thief of
the interest holders of them was considered. " The difference, he says
elsewhere, between a lender and a murderer is not large, and it is
to him, that he acts not in his back behind his speeches - as the
governor of Sardinia, he has by his strict justice, the Roman bankers
could lead to also driven the country. The reigning Mr. Booth
looked over all of its overwhelming majority after the economy of
the speculators, with reluctance, and not merely led an average
of honest and respectable in the provinces as these people money,
but even more frequently, they did stop, and only broke the frequent
change of top officials of the Roman and the inevitable inequality
their law handling the effort, that drive to overcome the need to
tip.

It is also understood well what not difficult to understand was that
it is far less pointed arrived speculation police to monitor the
whole economy as a change in direction to give, mainly in this
sense was developed by men, as was Cato, by teaching and sample the
crop preached.

"If our ancestors," says Cato is quoted in the preface continues, "a
brave man held the eulogy, as she praised him as a brave and a skilful
farmer farmer, who was so praised, the highest praise seemed to have
received.

Den Kaufmann, I think for wacker and erwerbsfleissig, but his business
has risks and Ungluecksfaellen too exposed. On the other hand, the
farmers made the most courageous people and the brave soldiers,
and no purchase is like this honest, safe, and no one spiteful, and
so submit, come on at least evil thoughts. " Of himself he used to
say that his fortunes merely from two sources herstamme: from the
agriculture and the economy, and if that also not very logical
thought exactly was the truth according to ^ 18, he is not wrong
with his contemporaries such as the post-world as the model of a
Roman landowner subject.

Unfortunately, it is an equally strange how painful truth that this
so much, and certainly in the best faith-vaunted cure of
agriculture itself was pervaded by the poison of the capitalist
economy. When grazing is so on the hand, it was about even with the
audience the most popular and the party of moral reform the least
well written. But how was it with the crop itself? The war, which
from the third to the fifth century of the city the capital of the
work in the manner which had led it through the debt retirement
rate of interest the ground with the working peasants withdrew and
the Reindeer Müssig zehrenden in the hands, had been offset mainly
by the expansion of the Roman Oekonomie and throw over Lazio in the
existing capital in the whole Mediterranean area of speculation.

Now could the vast business area the increased mass of capital is
no longer to act, and a crazy legislation worked out at the same
time, some Senators Capitals to artificial means to invest in real
estate to push Italic, partly through the influence on grain prices
that farmland Italic systematically devalue .

Thus began the second because of the capital campaign against the free
labor or, in ancient times is essentially the same, against the
peasant economy, and was the first arg was, so he seemed the second
compared with mild and humane. The capitalists lent no longer the
farmers on interest, which in itself is not concerned, because the
owners no small concern about more gun made, and also not easy and
not radical enough, but they bought the farm posts and turned them in
the best case in farms with slave economy. It also called the crop,
in fact it was much the application of economic capital to
the production of Bodenfruechte. The portrayal of the farmer, the
Cato, there is excellent and perfectly true, but how it fits on
the economy itself, which he describes and anraet?

When a Roman senator, as was not infrequently can be Landgueter such
as that of Cato described four had so lived in the same room, at
the time of the ancient hundred to reign small farmer families
hundertundfuenfzig diet had now a family of free people and about fifty
most unmarried slaves. If this was the remedy to the declining economy
to improve, so unfortunately it was the disease itself until confusingly
similar. ------------------------- -------------------- ^ 18
a portion of its assets put Cato Roemer, like any other livestock,
and trade and other ventures. But it was not his kind, even to
violate the laws, he has neither Staatspachtungen speculate what
he could not as a Senator, nor interest operations. You do him
wrong, if he in the last relationship of his theory of divergent
practice accuses: the Seedarlehen with which it is delivered, however,
is above the law no prohibited interest include operation and the
matter significantly to the shipping company and Befrachtungsgeschaeften.
The ------------------------------------------------- overall
result of this industry lies in the changing Bevoelkerungsverhaeltnissen
only too clearly in mind. Admittedly, the state of Italian landscapes
very uneven and sometimes even good.

The colonization of the region between the Apennines and the Po in large
numbers daselbst agencies founded Bauer disappeared not so fast.
Polybios, not long after the end of this period were the area traveled,
their boasts numerous beautiful and strong population, with a
proper grain legislation would probably have been possible, not Sicily,
but Polandschaft to the granary of the capital. Similarly, Picenum
and the so-called "Gallic Field" by the divisions of the Domaniallandes
in accordance with the Flaminischen Law 522 (232) numerous farmers
receive, which admittedly in Hannibal arg war was taken. In Etruria,
and, arguably, in Umbria, the ratio of the inner untertaenigen the
thriving communities of free farmers adversely. Besser appeared in
Lazio, the advantages of the metropolitan market, but not quite
could be withdrawn and the war of Hannibal in the whole was spared,
and in the closed Bergtaelern the Mars and Sabeller. Southern Italy
had opposed the war, Hannibal terribly hit and save a lot of
smaller towns, the two largest cities, Capua and Taranto, both
once capable army of 30000 men in the box to provide underlying
addressed.

Samnium had the serious wars of the fifth century to recover, according
to the census of 529 (225), it was able to half as much as weapons
to all the Latin cities, and then probably after the Roman
Buergermeister District's floral landscape of the peninsula. With the
war, Hannibal had the land anew, and the deserted arable daselbst
instructions to the soldiers of the Army Scipione, although
significant, but probably not cover the loss.

Still Uebler were in the same wars, Campania and Puglia, both
hitherto wohlbevoelkerte landscapes, from friend and foe has been
prepared. In Apulia found later in arable instructions instead,
only the here-ranging colonies would not thrive. Populated
remained schoene Campanian-American level, but was the Mark of Capua
and the other in the wars of Hannibal dissolved municipalities
state-owned and the owners were not consistently the same owner, but
small Zeitpaechter. Finally, in the vast American and luca brettischen
area was already before the war, Hannibal very thin population of
the whole seriousness of the war itself and the fact that criminal
executions reihenden taken, and also from Rome, not much was done
to find the crop back into the altitude to bring - with the exception
of some Valentia (Vibo, now Monte Leone), none of the colonies
created quite there in reception.

With all the inequalities of political and economic conditions of the
various landscapes and the relatively flourishing state of that
individual is available throughout the fall but unmistakable, and
he is supported by the testimonies unverwerflichsten about the
general state of Italy confirmed.

Cato and Polybios agree that Italy at the end of the sixth
century, far weaker than at the end of the fifth and inhabited by
no more been able to raise Heermassen as in the First Punic War. The
increasing difficulty of digging, the need for the qualification to
serve in the legions to reduce the complaints of the allies on the
amount of their quotas to contributing confirm this information, and
what the Roman residents concerned, talk about the numbers. It is
one in 502 (252), shortly after Regulus' train to Africa, 298,000 weapons
Maenner, thirty years later, shortly before the beginning of the
Hannibal War (534 220), she heads to 270000, ie, a tenth, twenty again
years, just before the end of that war (550 204) to 214,000 heads,
an increase of a quarter, and a man ages afterwards, during which
no extraordinary losses had occurred, but the plant especially the
large colonies in the Buergermeister norditalischen level a tactile
extraordinary growth had brought was still barely reached the
point at which the residents at the beginning of this period
had stood.

If we had similar numbers for the Italian population over all, they
would without any doubt, still a relatively respectable deficit.

The sinking of the People's power, there is little evidence, but
it is of agricultural writers testifies that meat and milk from the
diet of the common man more and more disappeared.

In addition, the slave population grew, as the free fell.

In Apulia, Lucanien and Brettierland must have time to Cato the
livestock farming have dominated the semi-shepherd slaves were
actually quite the gentlemen in the house.

Apulia was so unsafe they made strong crew that there had to be used,
in the year 569 (185) was daselbst biggest one in scale-based,
with the Bacchanalienwesen discovered that branched Sklavenverschwoerung
against 7000 people and convicted criminals.

The company, he reflected,
would get a bad name if too many men reported sick at once.

Next day he was absent from parade. He was "for Cambridge" at last.

Before he died, he sent for the officer who had befriended him, and
supplemented, or rather corrected, some of the information contained
in his attestation paper.

He lived in Dumbarton, not Renfrewshire. He was just sixteen. He was
not--this confession cost him a great effort--a full-blown "holder-on"
at all; only an apprentice. His father was "weel kent" in the town
of Dumbarton, being a chief engineer, employed by a great firm of
shipbuilders to extend new machinery on trial trips.

Needless to say, he made a great fight. But though his heart was
big enough, his body was too frail. As they say on the sea, he was
over-engined for his beam.

And so, three days later, the simple soul of Twenty-seven fifty-four
Carmichael, "A" Company, was transferred, on promotion, to another
company--the great Company of Happy Warriors who walk the Elysian
Fields.


III

"_Firing parrty, one round blank_--_load_!"

There is a rattle of bolts, and a dozen barrels are pointed
heavenwards. The company stands rigid, except the buglers, who are
beginning to finger their instruments.

"_Fire!_"

There is a crackling volley, and the pipes break into a brief, sobbing
wail. Wayfarers upon the road below look up curiously. One or two
young females with perambulators come hurrying across the grass,
exhorting apathetic babies to sit up and admire the pretty funeral.

Twice more the rifles ring out. The pipes cease their wailing, and
there is an expectant silence.

The drum-major crooks his little finger, and eight bugles come to the
"ready." Then "Last Post," the requiem of every soldier of the King,
swells out, sweet and true.

The echoes lose themselves among the dripping pines. The chaplain
closes his book, takes off his spectacles, and departs.

Old Carmichael permits himself one brief look into his son's grave,
resumes his crape-bound tall hat, and turns heavily away. He finds
Captain Blaikie's hand waiting for him. He grips it, and says--

"Weel, the laddie has had a grand sojer's funeral. His mother will be
pleased to hear that."

He passes on, and shakes hands with the platoon sergeant and one or
two of Peter's cronies. He declines an invitation to the Sergeants'
Mess.

"I hae a trial-trup the morn," he explains. "I must be steppin'. God
keep ye all, brave lads!"

The old gentleman sets off down the station road. The company falls
in, and we march back to barracks, leaving Wee Pe'er--the first name
on our Roll of Honour--alone in his glory beneath, the Hampshire
pines.


XIII

CONCERT PITCH


We have only two topics of conversation now--the date of our
departure, and our destination. Both are wrapped in mystery so
profound that our range of speculation is practically unlimited.

Conjecture rages most fiercely in the Officers' Mess, which is in
touch with sources of unreliable information not accessible to the
rank and file. The humblest subaltern appears to be possessed of a
friend at court, or a cousin in the Foreign Office, or an aunt in the
Intelligence Department, from whom he can derive fresh and entirely
different information each week-end leave.

Master Cockerell, for instance, has it straight from the Horse Guards
that we are going out next week--as a single unit, to be brigaded with
two seasoned regiments in Flanders. He has a considerable following.

Then comes Waddell, who has been informed by the Assistant sub-Editor
of an evening journal widely read in his native Dundee, that The First
Hundred Thousand are to sit here, eating the bread of impatience,
until The First Half Million are ready. Thereupon we shall break
through our foeman's line at a point hitherto unassailed and known
only to the scribe of Dundee, and proceed to roll up the German Empire
as if it were a carpet, into some obscure corner of the continent of
Europe.

Bobby Little, not the least of whose gifts is a soaring imagination,
has mapped out a sort of strategical Cook's Tour for us, beginning
with the sack of Constantinople, and ending, after a glorified
route-march up the Danube and down the Rhine, which shall include a
pitched battle once a week and a successful siege once a month, with a
"circus" entry into Potsdam.

Captain Wagstaffe offers no opinion, but darkly recommends us to order
pith helmets. However, we are rather suspicious of Captain Wagstaffe
these days. He suffers from an over-developed sense of humour.

The rank and file keep closer to earth in their prognostications. In
fact, some of them cleave to the dust. With them it is a case of hope
deferred. Quite half of them enlisted under the firm belief that
they would forthwith be furnished with a rifle and ammunition and
despatched to a vague place called "the front," there to take
pot-shots at the Kaiser. That was in early August. It is now early
April, and they are still here, performing monotonous evolutions and
chafing under the bonds of discipline. Small wonder that they have
begun to doubt, these simple souls, if they are ever going out at all.
Private M'Slattery put the general opinion in a nutshell.

"This regiment," he announced, "is no' for the front at all. We're
jist tae bide here, for tae be inspeckit by Chinese Ministers and
other heathen bodies!"

This withering summary of the situation was evoked by the fact that
we had once been called out, and kept on parade for two hours in
a north-east wind, for the edification of a bevy of spectacled
dignitaries from the Far East. For the Scottish, artisan the word
"minister," however, has only one significance; so it is probable that
M'Slattery's strictures were occasioned by sectarian, rather than
racial, prejudice.

Still, whatever our ultimate destination and fate may be, the fact
remains that we are now as fit for active service as seven months'
relentless schooling, under make-believe conditions, can render us. We
shall have to begin all over again, we know, when we find ourselves up
against the real thing, but we have at least been thoroughly grounded
in the rudiments of our profession. We can endure hail, rain, snow,
and vapour; we can march and dig with the best; we have mastered the
first principles of musketry; we can advance in an extended line
without losing touch or bunching; and we have ceased to regard an
order as an insult, or obedience as a degradation. We eat when we can
and what we get, and we sleep wherever we happen to find ourselves
lying. That is something. But there are certain military
accomplishments which can only be taught us by the enemy. Taking
cover, for instance. When the thin, intermittent crackle of blank
ammunition shall have been replaced by the whistle of real bullets, we
shall get over our predilection for sitting up and taking notice. 
Relative nature of the proposal, the Cato in the Senate pointed out,
the decline of the citizen cavalry through the establishment of four
hundred horsemen new posts were to do so.

The funds may be to the state coffers are not lacking, but the proposal
seems exclusive to the nobility of spirit and her desire to those who
are not only riders and knights were in the cavalry to displace residents,
failed to be. In contrast, forcing the heavy Kriegslaeufte which
even the Roman Government to the crash, fortunately, some
experimental, their armies after oriental kind of slave market to
recruit for the alleviation of the service in Buergerheer previously
required qualifications: Minimum of the census of 11000 Assen (300
crowns) and Freigeborenheit.

Apart from the fact that we made between 4000 (115 crowns) and
1500 Assen (43 thalers) estimated free-born and all freedman attracted
to the service fleet, was the minimum for the census to 4000
Asseburg Legionnaire (115 crowns) and were reduced in both the
emergency and Flottendienstpflichtigen even as between 1500 (43
thalers) and 375 aces (11 thalers) estimated free-born citizens in
the foot miteingestellt people.

This probably the end of the previous or the beginning of this era
belonging innovations are without a doubt, like the servianische
Militaerreform aspirations emerged from party alone but they did
the democratic party so far mainly feed as civil charges with the first
civil rights and then the civil rights are necessary to balance
continued. The poor and freedmen began in the community to mean
something, since they served him, and arose mainly from one of
the most important Verfassungsaenderungen this time, the
reorganization of Zenturiatkomitien, which most likely occurred
in the same year in which the war for Sicily to the end went
(513 241). Under the current voting regulations were in Zenturiatkomitien
if not more, as to the reform of Appius Claudius, but the residents
voted, but the assets predominated: First, it had voted in the
Knights, which means the patrician -plebeian nobility, then the
Hoechstbesteuerten, ie those who are an asset of at least 100,000
Assen (2900 thalers) the censor had been ^ 11, and these two
departments had together if they all decided to vote.

The voting rights of the taxpayers of the following four classes
were of questionable weight that those whose estimate among the lowest
class rate of 11000 Assen (300 crowns) was achieved, much has been
illusory. Under the new order of chivalry was, although they retained
their separate departments, the Vorstimmrecht withdrawn on the
same one from the first class by the vocal department chose Los way.
The importance of that noble Vorstimmrechts may not be high enough to
be struck, especially in an era when in fact the influence of the
nobility of the total residents in constant was climbing.

Was it even the real Junker stand still during this time powerful
enough to handle the law the patricians as open to the plebeian
consul-second and second Zensorstelle, those up to the end of this
period (up to 582 172), it is still a human age beyond (until 623
131), only those with him to occupy, even in the most dangerous
moment, the Roman Republic has experienced in the crisis after the
Cannensischen battle that was completely legal according to the
election of all officers considered libelous, plebeian of Marcellus,
to which by the patrician consul Paullus death finished his job
only because Plebejertums to undo.

It is indeed characteristic of even the essence of this reform that
Vorstimmrecht only the nobility, but not the Hoechstbesteuerten deprived
ward, the withdrawn Ritterzenturien not Vorstimmrecht approximately
by lot from all over the residents chose department, but only to
the first class transferred.

This, and over all the five levels remained as they were only after
the border below was probably moved in a way that the minimum
census as for the service in the Legion as well as for the right
to vote in the Zenturien of 11000 to 4000 Asseburg was reduced.
Moreover, even in the formal retention of the earlier sentences in
the general rising of the Vermoegensstandes a sense an extension
of voting rights in the democratic sense. The total number of departments
also remained unchanged, but until then, as I said, the eighteen
Ritterzenturien and 80 of the first class in the 193 Stimmzenturien
alone, the majority had had, it was reformed in order, the votes of the
first class to 70 and reduced This means that under all circumstances
at least the second stage came to the vote. More importantly and
the main focus of reform was the connection in which the new voting
units with the Tribusordnung set. Traditionally, the Zenturien from
Tribus emerged in such a way that one who Tribus belonged, from the
Censor in the Zenturien had to be enrolled. Since the non-citizens
resident in the Tribus enrolled were also reached in the Zenturien,
and while they are in the Tribusversammlungen himself to the four
urban departments were limited, they where Zenturien with the residents
formally have the same right to although probably the censors arbitrariness
in the composition of the intervening Zenturien and joined in the
Landtribus registered citizens over weight in the Zenturienversammlung
granted. This weight transfer was confirmed by the reformed legal
order in the manner noted that the 70 Zenturien the first class of each
Tribus two were assigned therefore not residents of which only
eight were in a similar way also in the four stages of the other
residents About the weight has been.

In the same vein, the previous equality of freedmen with the
free-born in the voting at this time were also removed and the resident
freedmen in the four urban Tribus punished. This happened in the year
534 (220) by one of the most prominent men of the Reform Party, the
censor Gaius Flaminius, and was then reviewed by the censor Tiberius
Sempronius Gracchus, the father of the two authors of the Roman
Revolution, fifty years later (585 169) repeated and reinforced .
This reform of the Zenturien, perhaps also in their entirety by
Flaminius expected, was the first major Verfassungsaenderung the
new opposition of the nobility abgewann, the first real victory of
democracy.

The core of that is partly in the restrictions of the censors
Willkuerregiments, partly in the restriction of the influence of
one of the nobility, the other of non-and freedmen, in the
transformation of Zenturiatkomitien after Tributkomitien for the
already existing principle of what is already recommended that
elections Gesetzvorschlaege, action thriller Alan and all the
involvement of residents requiring affairs throughout the Tributkomitien,
and the burdensome Zenturien not otherwise easily have been called
together, as where it is necessary or constitutional but was usual
to the censors, consuls and praetor, and to choose a war of aggression
to decide.

It was therefore by this reform is not a new principle in the constitution,
but a long practice in the most common and important category of
residents' meetings authoritative general application use. Their
most democratic, but not demagogic tendency is evident in its opinion
on the actual props any really revolutionary party, the proletariat
and the Released shank.

That may be because the practical significance of this amendment
for the authoritative voice Urversammlungen not too high order
will be struck. The new electoral law, the simultaneous formation of
a new politically privileged status does not prevent, and perhaps
not even much more difficult. It is certainly not just blame the
poor, however, overnight delivery that we have no real exposure to the
much-reform on the political course of things to demonstrate assets.
Inwardly hangs way with this reform and the earlier mentioned the
elimination of non-voting communities of Roman citizens and their
gradual emergence into the Vollbuergergemeinde together. It was the
leveling spirit of Progressive Party, the contradictions within the
middle to remove, while the gap between citizens and Nichtbuergern
simultaneously attracted broader and deeper. -------------------
---------------------------- ^ 11 on the original Roman Zensussaetze
it is difficult to give something up. Later were known as the
minimum of the first class census 100000 Ace, including the census of
the four other classes in the (at least approximate) ratio of _, «,
¬, 1 / 9 are available. These sentences but already understands
Polybios and understand all the later writers of the Ace light (on 1
/ 10 penny), and it seems here to be kept to have, albeit in
relation to the law Voconische same totals as serious Asseburg (¬
to Denarius) in approach are (History of Roman coinage, p. 302).

Appius Claudius, however, the first in the year 442 (312) the Zensussaetze
in cash instead of land said, can not serve as the light, which
only 485 (269) came up. So either he has the same amounts in serious
Assen and these are expressed in Muenzreduktion been converted into
light, or he has the numbers later on, and it remained the same despite
the Muenzreduktion, which in this case a reduction of the Klassensaetze
by more than half would have contained. Both assumptions are
valid concerns rise, but the former seems to believe, since such
an exorbitant advance in the democratic development not for the end
of the fifth century, nor as merely an incidental consequence of
the administrative detention order is likely, probably also very
difficult from the vanished overnight delivery would be. 100000
Light As Sestertius or 40000 can also quite properly considered the
equivalent of the original Roman Vollhufe of perhaps 20 acres to
be, so that afterwards the Schatzungssaetze about only in the
expression, but not in value would have changed. -------
---------------------------------------- Where we together what the
Reform Party this time wanted and was achieved, then tearing it to
the decay, especially farmer Einschwinden of the state and the
relaxation of the old, strict and efficient usage, but also the
overwhelming political influence of the new nobility undoubtedly
patriotic and vigorously tried to control and to a some extent also
controlled.

With one misses a higher political goal. The disaffection of the
volume, the moral indignation of the better took place probably
in their opposition to this reasonable and meaningful expression,
but no one sees a clear insight into the source of evil nor a solid
plan, by and large to improve. A certain mindlessness goes through all
this otherwise worthy efforts, and the purely defensive stance
of the defender weissagt little good for its success. Whether the
disease is about all a joke by people could be cured, remains
undecided cheap, and the Roman reformers, but this time seem more
good as a good citizen to have been statesmanlike and the great
struggle against the old bourgeoisie, the new cosmopolitanism on
their side and somewhat inadequate to run spiessbuergerlich .

But as the next residents of the mob at this time emporkam, it was
also already the next honorable and useful opposition party
volksschmeichelnde demagoguery. Already Cato knows the industry of the
people involved in the speech, like other sick addiction to drinking
and sleeping addiction; the listener to rent, if not voluntarily
einfinden, and the man as the market Schreier sounds without having
to hear, let alone if you need help, to entrust to them. In its rough
nature portrays the old man following the pattern of the Greek
market chatterer educated and funny witzelnden, singing and
dancing, all the time to prepare Mr. Chen, to nothing, he says, is
such a need, rather than arising in the course as Hans Wurst to
produce and with the audience talking about change - for a piece
of bread so he is talking like the silence sale.

In fact, these demagogues were the worst enemies of reform.

As before all these things and on all sides came to moral improvement,
it was the demagoguery rather towards restriction of the government
and expansion of the residents of competence. In the former
relationship is the most important innovation, the effective
abolition of the dictatorship.

By Quintus Fabius and his opponents popular 537 (217) crisis was
caused by this house from the institute unpopular death shock. Although
the government once more after (538 216) under the immediate impression
of the battle of Canna one with an active command appointed dictator
appointed them, so they could but in quieter times not dare,
and after a few times (last 552 202) , sometimes referred to
previous name of the person to be appointed by the residents, a
dictator for urban shops had been established, this office was not
formally abolished to be really out of use. This was the
artificially interwoven gefugten Roman constitutional system, for
whose owners are very desirable corrective Beamtenkollegialitaet lost
and lost the government by the advocacy of the dictatorship, which
means the suspension of the consuls, by and usually also the name
of the dictator to be appointed abgehangen had , one of their main
tools - only imperfectly was replaced by the same by the Senate has
taken power, in extraordinary cases, particularly when suddenly
emerging insurrection or war, the current highest officials almost
dictatorial power to give the instruction: at the discretion of the
common welfare measures to be taken, and thus the current state law
to bring about similar condition.

In addition, extended the formal competence of the people in the
appointment of such officials in government, administrative and
financial matters seriously off. The priesthood, including the
politically most important colleges of experts, supplemented by old
and come from himself appointed their own governor, to the
extent these authorities actually had head, and in fact this was for
overnight delivery to the customer Goettlicher things passed from one
generation to the specific institutions only their minds to choose
the form of cooptation. It is not a matter of great political weight,
but significant for the incipient disorganization of the Republican
rules, that in this period (542 212) is still not the choice in the
colleges themselves, but probably the name of the boards of Curione
and Pontifices from the bosom of this Koerperschatten by the colleges
transferred to the municipality, while still Moreover, with real
Roman formal Goetterfurcht to nothing to provide only the smaller
half of the districts, not the "people" the voting took place.

More important was the growing intervention of the residents in personal
and factual questions from the circles of Militaerverwaltung and
external policy. This belongs to the transition to the appointment of
regular staff officers from the field to the Lord residents, whose
thinking was, here, the election of the leader of the opposition
Oberfeld Gentlemen against Hannibal; here the constitutional and
irrational decision residents of 537 (217), which command the highest
among unpopular with the Generalissimo and his popular and him in
the opposing camp as daheim subdivision Lord was divided; here
against Marcellus as an officer before the residents seduced
tribunizische Gequengel because foolish and dishonest Kriegfuehrung
(545 209), which is the same but has urged, from the camp after the
capital to come and because of its military capability before the
audience of the capital accounts; here yet scandalous trials, the
winner of Pydna by residents decision rejecting the triumph, but
here probably prompted by the Senate apparel of a private man with
extraordinary violence consular office (544 210 ), here the alarming
threat of Scipio, the supreme command in Africa, when the Senate
refused him the same, from the residents to grant leave (549 205),
here the attempted coup against ambition. half clownish people, the
residents will resist the government in every way unjust war
declaration against the Rhodier to snatch (587 167), here the new
state law axiom that any treaty until ratification of the community
will be full.

He is adjusting his perspectives. He is beginning to
merge himself in the Regiment.

He no longer gets drunk from habit. When he does so now, it is because
there were no potatoes at dinner, or because there has been a leak
in the roof of his hut for a week and no one is attending to it, or
because his wife is not receiving her separation allowance. Being an
inarticulate person, he finds getting drunk the simplest and most
effective expedient for acquainting the powers that be with the fact
that he has a grievance. Formerly, the morning list of "drunks" merely
reflected the nearness or remoteness of payday. Now, it is a most
reliable and invaluable barometer of the regimental atmosphere.

He has developed--quite spontaneously, for he has had few
opportunities for imitation--many of the characteristics of the
regular soldier. He is quick to discover himself aggrieved, but is
readily appeased if he feels that his officer is really doing his best
for him, and that both of them are the victims of a higher power. On
the other hand, he is often amazingly cheerful under uncomfortable and
depressing surroundings. He is growing quite fastidious, too, about
his personal appearance when off duty. (You should see our quiffs
on Saturdays!) He is quite incapable of keeping possession of his
clothing, his boots, his rifle, his health, or anything that is
his, without constant supervision and nurse-maiding. And that he is
developing a strong bent towards the sentimental is evinced by the
choruses that he sings in the gloaming and his taste in picture
post-cards.

So far he may follow the professional model, but in other respects he
is quite _sui generis_. No sergeant in a Highland regiment of the line
would ever refer to a Cockney private, with all humility, as "a young
English gentleman"; neither would an ordinary soldier salute an
officer quite correctly with one hand while employing the other to
light his pipe. In "K(1)" we do these things and many others, which,
give us a _cachet_ of our own of which we are very rightly and
properly proud.

So we pin our faith to the man who has been at once our despair and
our joy since the month of August. He has character; he has grit;
and now that he is getting discipline as well, he is going to be an
everlasting credit to the cause which roused his manhood and the land
which gave him birth.

       *       *       *       *       *

That is the tale of The First Hundred Thousand--Part One. Whether Part
Two will be forthcoming, and how much of it there will be, depends
upon two things--the course of history, and the present historian's
eye for cover.


BOOK TWO

LIVE ROUNDS


XIV

THE BACK OF THE FRONT


I

The last few days have afforded us an excellent opportunity of
studying the habits of that ubiquitous attendant of our movements, the
Staff Officer.

He is not always a real Staff Officer--the kind that wears a red
hatband. Sometimes he is an obvious "dug-out," with a pronounced
_embonpoint_ or a game leg. Sometimes he is a mere stripling, with a
rapidly increasing size in hats. Sometimes he is an ordinary human
being. But whoever he is, and whatever his age or rank, one thing is
certain. He has no mean: he is either very good or very bad. When he
is good he is very good indeed, and when he is bad he is horrid. He is
either Jekyll or Hyde.

Thrice blessed, then, is that unit which, upon its journey to the
seat of war, encounters only the good of the species. To transfer a
thousand men, with secrecy and despatch, from camp to train, from
train to ship, from ship to train, and from train to a spot near the
battle line, is a task which calls for the finest organisation and the
most skilful administration. Let it be said at once that our path to
our present address has been almost universally lined with Jekylls.
The few Hydes whom we have encountered are by this time merely a
subject for amusing anecdote.

As for the organisation of our journey--well, it was formulated upon
Olympus, and was marked by those Olympian touches of which mention has
been previously made. For instance, immense pains were taken, by means
of printed rules and official memoranda, to acquaint us with the
procedure to be followed at each point of entrainment or embarkation.
Consequently we set out upon our complicated pilgrimage primed with
explicit instructions and ready for any emergency. We filled up forms
with countless details of our equipment and personnel, which we knew
would delight the heart of the Round Game Department. We divided our
followers, as directed, into Loading Parties, and Ration Parties, and
Hold Parties, and many other interesting subdivisions, as required by
the rules of the game. But we had reckoned without the Practical Joke
Department. The Round Game Department having furnished us with one set
of rules, the Practical Joke Department prepared another, entirely
different, and issued them to the officers who superintended such
things as entrainment and embarkation. At least, that is the most
charitable explanation of the course of action adopted by the few Mr.
Hydes whom we encountered.

Two of these humorists linger in the memory. The first was of the type
which is admiringly referred to in commercial circles as a hustler.
His hustling took the form of beginning to shout incomprehensible
orders almost before the train had drawn up at the platform. After
that he passed from party to party, each of which was working
strenuously under its own sergeant, and commanded them (not the
sergeant) to do something else, somewhere else--a course of action
naturally calculated to promote unity and celerity of action all
round. A perspiring sergeant who ventured to point out that his party
were working under the direct orders of their Company Commander, was
promptly placed under arrest, and his flock enjoyed a welcome and
protracted breathing-space until an officer of sufficient standing
to cope with Mr. Hyde--unfortunately he was Major Hyde--could be
discovered and informed.

The second required more tactful handling. As our train-load drew
up at the platform, the officer in charge--it was Captain Blaikie,
supported by Bobby Little--stepped out, saluted the somewhat rotund
Colonel Hyde whom he saw before him, and proffered a sheaf of papers.

"Good-morning, sir," he said. "Here is my train statement. Shall I
carry on with the unloading? I have all my parties detailed."

The great man waved away the papers magnificently. (To be just, even
the Jekylls used to wave away our papers.)

"Take those things away," he commanded, in a voice which made it plain
that we had encountered another hustler. "Burn them, if you like! Now
listen to me. Tell off an officer and seventy men at once."

"I have all the necessary parties detailed already, sir."

"Will you listen to me?" It was succeeded by the two rival Berber
Koeniger, Massinissa of Cirta (Constantine), Lord of the Massyler and
Syphax of Siga (at the Tafnamuendung, west of Oran), Lord of the
Massaesyler, the latter, by far the more powerful and so far friend
of the Romans, through the contract and relationship to Carthage
to be closely linked by the other, the old rival of Syphax and
allies of the Carthaginians, let fall.

Massinissa was desperate resistance of the combined power of the
Carthaginians and Syphax impose his Country and the latter must be
a prey, he wandered with a few riders in the desert.

Besides the influx, which Syphax was to be expected, there was a
Carthaginian army of 20000 men on foot, 6000 cavalry and 140 elephants
- Hanno was therefore dedicated to elephant hunting ausgeschickt
been - quick-witted for the protection of the capital, under the
leadership of the field tested in Spain, Mr.

Hasdrubal, son Gisgons; in port was a strong fleet.

A Macedonian Corps under Sopater and a consignment keltiberischer
Soeldner were expected soon.

On the rumor of Scipio landing Massinissa immediately met in the
camp of the Lord a field which he not long ago in Spain as the enemy
had faced alone the laenderlose Fuerst brought first the Romans
nothing but his personal efficiency, and the Libyans, although the
digging and taxes heartily tired, but had in similar cases to bitter
experiences in order to immediately for the Romans to explain.

Thus began the campaign Scipio.

As long as he was only the weaker Carthaginian army against him,
he was at an advantage and was able after a few lucky riders battle
for the siege of Utica walk alone as Syphax arrived, supposedly
with 50,000 men on foot and 10,000 horsemen, had lifted the siege
and at a slightly to fortify promontory between Utica and Carthage,
a fortified camp boat are beaten.

Here passed the Roman general in the winter 550/51 (204/03).

From the rather uncomfortable position in which it was spring,
he was freed by a sure hand string.

The Africans, eingeschlaefert of Scipio by the more cunning than honest
angesponnenen peace negotiations, settled in a single night in
their two camps are about: the Rohrhuetten the Numidier blazing in
flames, and when the Carthaginians rushed to help, took her own the
same stock fate, were defenseless refugees from the Roman departments
made.

This night was about the case of perishable than some battle.

However, the Carthaginians had the courage not to fall and even
rejected the advice of the fear of semen, or rather, of understanding,
Mago and Hannibal recall.

Just now, the Macedonian expected keltiberischen and auxiliary troops
arrived, we decided on the "big boxes", five Tagemaersche of Utica,
once the open battle field to try. Scipio hurried accept it, with
a slight effort, and scattered its veteran volunteers zusammengerafften
Carthaginian and numidischen swarms and the Keltiberer which
Scipio to grace could not be expected, after stubborn resistance slap
together. The Africans were able to double after this defeat is never
more the field stop. An attack on the Roman ship bearing that the
Carthaginian fleet tried to provide not an unfortunate, but no decisive
result, and was far offset by the capture of Syphax, Scipio to his
unprecedented Gluecksstern zuwarf and what Massinissa the ward for the
Romans what initially Syphax the Carthaginians had been. After such
defeats, the Carthaginian peace party, which has had sixteen years
of age must be silent, again raise their heads and openly rebel
against the regiment of Barkas and patriots.

Hasdrubal, Gisgons son, was absent from the government
sentenced to death and an attempt made by Scipio ceasefire and
peace to gain. He requested assignment of the Spanish possessions
and the islands of the Mediterranean, transfer of the kingdom of
Syphax to Massinissa, delivery of the war up to twenty ships and a
talent Kriegskontribution of 4000 (nearly 7 million thalers) -
conditions which are unprecedented for so cheap Carthage appear
that the question imposes itself whether Scipio in his or more
interest in Rome's offering.

The Carthaginian Plenipotentiaries took on the same subject to the
ratification of its authorities, and it was preceded by a Carthaginian
embassy, therefore, after Rome. The Carthaginian Patriot Party was
not meant so easy to purchase the struggle to renounce the belief
in the noble cause, faith in the big box, Lord, even the example
that Rome had given to endure them fired, even aside from that peace
is the necessary counterpart to the rudder and thus they themselves
had to bring their downfall. The residents, the Patriot Party, the
weight overnight, it was decided that the opposition over the
peace negotiations and to now be a final and decisive effort to prepare.
At Mago and Hannibal gave the command to quickly return to Africa.

Mago, the last three years (459-551 205-203) was working in northern
Italy, a coalition against Rome to launch, it was just then in
the territory of the Insubric (around Milan) over the far superior
Roman Doppelheer inferior. The Roman cavalry was, at the foot switches
and the People's been brought into the scrum and the victory seemed
to be for the Carthaginians to explain than the kuehne attack by a
Roman troops to the enemy's elephants, and especially the severe
wounding of the beloved and boost the fortune of the battle turned:
the Phoenician army had in the Ligurian zurueckweichen coast. Here,
it received the command for embarkation and took him; Mago but
died during the overnight trip to his wound.

Hannibal the command would probably pre-empted, if not the last
negotiations with Philip he presented a new view had its homeland
in Italy can be useful to be in Libya, when he was in Kroton, where
he has recently had it received, he lined not by him.

He had his horse come down and the Italian soldiers who refused to
him over the sea to follow, and ascended to the speech of Kroton
readiness in a long standing transport ships.

The Roman citizens breathed, as the vast Libyan Loewe, the deductible
to force even now, nobody dared to so voluntarily surrendered to
the Italian turned back to the ground, on that occasion was the
only survivor among the Roman military, the heavy time honor, were
the almost neunzigjaehrigen Quintus Fabius by the Council and
residents of the grass wreath revered.

This ring, which according to Roman custom of the field by the Lord
saved his army rescuers darbrachte by the whole community to receive
the highest award to a Roman citizen has ever given, and the last
honor of the old jewelry box, Lord, yet in the same years from the
life of difference (551 203).

  Hannibal but was
  without a doubt not under the protection of the armistice, but
only through his speed and his luck, after Leptis and freely entered,
the last of Hamilkars "Loewenbrut", here again after absence
sechsunddreissigjaehriger the bottom of the home, which he almost
still a boy, had left to his great and yet so perfectly futile
heroic career start and take off westward from the east side home,
around the lake a large Carthaginian victory circle descriptive.

Now that had happened, what he had and want to prevent what he would
have prevented if he gedurft, now he should, if possible, to save
and help, and he did it without complaining and scold.

With his arrival came the Patriot Party open to, and the shameful
verdict against Hasdrubal was collected, new links with the sheiks
numidischen Hannibal agility adequate follow through and not just
the peace actually completed in the People's Assembly refused to
confirm, but also by the looting of a part of the African coast
transport stranded Roman fleet, so even through the fall on a Roman
envoy leading Roman warship broke the ceasefire. In exasperation broke
fair Scipio from his camp in Tunis on (552 202) and through
the rich valley of Bagradas (Medscherda) by surrender of the towns no
longer be granted, but the population of the spots and cities in
the mass up and let sale. Already, he was deeply penetrated into the
inland and stood at Naraggara (west of Sicca, now el Kef, on the
border of Tunis and Algiers), as Hannibal, the Hadrumetum of him
pulled from opposite was met with him. The Carthaginian captain tried
by the Roman in a personal meeting in order to obtain better conditions
alone Scipio, who has reached the extreme limit of the concessions
had gone, was reduced after the breaking of the cease-fire impossible
to understand further indulgence, and it is not to believe, Hannibal
that this step was intended something different than the crowd to
show that the Patriots no necessarily be against peace.

The conference led to no result and so it came to the decisive battle
at Zama (presumably near Sicca) ^ 1 In three lines of Hannibal ordered
his people walk in the first link in the Carthaginian Mietstruppen
in the second, the African country and the Phoenician Buergermeister
alongside the Macedonian Defense Corps, the third in the veterans who
followed him were from Italy. Before the line was the eighties
elephants, the tabs on the wings. Scipio was also his legions into
three elements, like the Romans used, and ordered them so that the
elephants, and next to the line could break away without having
to blow it.

This was not only completely, but the sideways evasive elephants
also brought the Carthaginian Reiterfluegel in disarray, so that these
Scipio against cavalry, which, moreover, by the arrival of hordes
Massinissas the enemies was far superior, lightweight, and soon the
game had fully grasped repositioning was .

Serious was the fight of the walk people. Long was the battle between
the mutual first member in the very bloody scuffle both parts
finally came in confusion, and had links to the second stop looking.

The Romans found him and the Carthaginian militia but was so
uncertain and vacillating, that the Soeldner felt betrayed and
there between them and the Carthaginian militia came to the scuffle.

Meanwhile, Hannibal withdrew hastily, what the first two lines
still remained on the wings back and pushed his core Italic troops
across the line. Scipio on the other hand, pushed together in the
middle, which from the first line kampffaehig was still and let the
second and third link to the left and right at the first to join.

Once started on the same Walstatt a second, even more terrible
carnage; Hannibal old soldiers do not wavered despite the number
of enemies overnight, until the cavalry of the Romans and the
Massinissa, from pursuing the beaten enemy go back, they are
surrounded on all sides.

This was not just the fight to an end, but the Phoenician army
destroyed, the same soldiers who fourteen years earlier, when resentment
Canna had overcome her soul at Zama. With a handful of people came
after a fugitive Hannibal Hadrumetum. ----------------------------------------
--------------- ^ 1 Of the two leading places of this name is probably
the west, about 60 Miglien located west of Hadrumetum, that the battle
(cf. Hermes 20, 1885, p. 144, 318). The time is the spring or summer
of the year 552 (202), the determination of the day on 19 th October
because of alleged eclipse is void. ------------------------------------------
------------ After that day was on Carthaginian side, only the
foolishness of the war to continue guessing.

On the other hand, it was in the hands of the Roman commander, immediately
the siege of the capital, to begin verproviantiert not yet
covered, and, if not unpredictable incidents occurred, the fate of
what Rome had about Hannibal want to bring about now Carthage relationship
. Scipio has not done that, he granted the peace (553 201), albeit
no longer on the earlier conditions. In addition to the assignments
that are already in negotiations for the past like Rome for Massinissa
were called, was the Carthaginians in fifty years, a yearly contribution
of 200 talents (340000 thalers) up and they had to make of being, not
against Rome and its allies and all over outside of Africa do
not even in Africa outside its own territory only after Rome received
permission to wage war, what really would amount to a tributary of
Carthage and was losing its political independence. It even seems that
the Carthaginians were obliged under the circumstances, war ships to
the Roman fleet to make. It has been accused of Scipio, that he
had to honor the termination of the worst war that Rome has led
not to the supreme command to a successor submit to have the enemy
on favorable terms.

The prosecution wants to be founded when the first draft would have
been the subject of the second they do not seem justified. Neither
were in Rome the ratio so that the minion of the people after
the victory at Zama the recall seriously had to fear - it was even
before the victory an attempt to make it separable from the
Senate to the residents and from this decision was rejected; still
justify the conditions of this accusation. The Karthagerstadt, after
ye hands bound and a powerful neighbor by her side, was never even
made an attempt to join the Roman supremacy to escape, let alone to
compete with Rome, it was at any of it to know wished that the
war has just finished a lot more of Hannibal had been undertaken
as of Carthage, and that the giant map of the Patriot Party is
bad, but did not renew.

We liked the little vengeful Italians seem that only the fuenfhundert
delivered warships aufloderten in flames and not the hated city,
village and doggedness Schulz minds want to defend the view that only
the truly vanquished opponent destroyed it, and scold, the crimes
committed Roemer tremble to have made, had spurned, thoroughly
punished.

Scipio thought otherwise and we have no reason, and therefore no right
to assume that in this case the common motives given the Romans, not
the noble and highly perceptive, also beaten in his character. Not
the concerns of any recall or Glueckswechsels still possible but
not distant concern before the outbreak of the Macedonian War, the
secure and confident man, which so far has succeeded beyond all was
held, the execution of the unfortunate city to enforce the fifty
years later his adoptive grandson was applied, and indeed probably
now have been completed.

It is much more likely that the two great captains, which now also the
political decision stood, the peace as he was offered and accepted,
where the impetuous vengeance of victors, here to the tenacity and the
foolishness of the fair and overcome barriers to be circumspect
set, the soul of the needle and the high statesmanship talent opponents
no less evident in Hannibal great coincidence in the inevitable
Scipio wise than in resigning from the superfluous, and the shameful
victory.

It winds
a good deal. Every hundred yards or so comes a great promontory of
sandbags, necessitating four right-angle turns. Once we pass under the
shadow of trees, and apple-blossom flutters down upon our upturned
faces. We are walking through an orchard. Despite the efforts of ten
million armed men, brown old Mother Earth has made it plain that
seedtime and harvest shall still prevail.

Now we are crossing a stream, which cuts the trench at right angles.
The stream is spanned by a structure of planks--labelled, it is hardly
necessary to say, LONDON BRIDGE. The side-street, so to speak, by
which the stream runs away, is called JOCK'S JOY. We ask why?

"It's the place where the Highlanders wash their knees," is the
explanation.

Presently we arrive at PICCADILLY CIRCUS, a muddy excavation in the
earth, from which several passages branch. These thoroughfares are
not all labelled with strict regard for London geography. We note THE
HAYMARKET, also PICCADILLY; but ARTILLERY LANE seems out of place,
somehow. On the site, too, of the Criterion, we observe a subterranean
cavern containing three recumbent figures, snoring lustily. This bears
the sign CYCLISTS' REST.

We, however, take the turning marked SHAFTESBURY AVENUE, and
after passing (quite wrongly, don't you think?) through TRAFALGAR
SQUARE--six feet by eight--find ourselves in the actual firing trench.

It is an unexpectedly spacious place. We, who have spent the winter
constructing slits in the ground two feet wide, feel quite lost in
this roomy thoroughfare. For a thoroughfare it is, with little toy
houses on either side. They are hewn out of the solid earth, lined
with planks, painted, furnished, and decorated. These are, so to
speak, permanent trenches, which have been occupied for more than six
months.

Observe this eligible residence on your left. It has a little door,
nearly six feet high, and a real glass window, with a little curtain.
Inside, there is a bunk, six feet long, together with an ingenious
folding washhand-stand, of the nautical variety, and a flap-table.
The walls, which are painted pale green, are decorated with elegant
extracts from the "Sketch" and "La Vie Parisienne." Outside, the name
of the villa is painted up. It is in Welsh--that notorious railway
station in Anglesey which runs to thirty-three syllables or so--and
extends from one end of the façade to the other. A small placard
announces that Hawkers, Organs, and Street-cries are prohibited.

"This is my shanty," explains a machine-gun officer standing by. "It
was built by a Welsh Fusilier, who has since moved on. He was here all
winter, and made everything himself, including the washhand-stand.
Some carpenter--what? of course I am not here continuously. We have
six days in the trenches and six out; so I take turns with a man in
the Midland Mudcrushers, who take turns with us. Come in and have some
tea."

It is only ten o'clock in the morning, but tea--strong and sweet, with
condensed milk--is instantly forthcoming. Refreshed by this, and a
slice of cake, we proceed upon our excursion.

The trench is full of men, mostly asleep; for the night cometh, when
no man may sleep. They lie in low-roofed rectangular caves, like the
interior of great cucumber-frames, lined with planks and supported by
props. The cave is really a homogeneous affair, for it is constructed
in the R.E. workshops and then brought bodily to the trenches and
fitted into its appointed excavation. Each cave holds three men. They
lie side by side, like three dogs in a triple kennel, with their heads
outward and easily accessible to the individual who performs the
functions of "knocker-up."

Others are cooking, others are cleaning their rifles. The proceedings
are superintended by a contemplative tabby cat, coiled up in a niche,
like a feline flower in a crannied wall.

"She used ter sit on top of the parapet," explains a friendly
lance-corporal; "but became a casualty, owin' to a sniper mistakin'
'er for a Guardsman's bearskin. Show the officer your back,
Christabel!"

We inspect the healed scar, and pass on. Next moment we round a
traverse--and walk straight into the arms of Privates Ogg and Hogg!

No need now to remain with the distinguished party from Headquarters.
For the next half-mile of trench you will find yourselves among
friends. "K(1)" and Brother Bosche are face to face at last, and here
you behold our own particular band of warriors taking their first
spell in the trenches.

Let us open the door of this spacious dug-out--the image of an
up-river bungalow, decorated with window-boxes and labelled Potsdam
View--and join the party of four which sits round the table.

"How did your fellows get on last night, Wagstaffe?" inquires Major
Kemp.

"Very well, on the whole. It was a really happy thought on the part of
the authorities--almost human, in fact--to put us in alongside the old
regiment."

"Or what's left of them."

Wagstaffe nods gravely.

"Yes. There are some changes in the Mess since I last dined there," he
says. "Anyhow, the old hands took our boys to their bosoms at once,
and showed them the ropes."

"The men did not altogether fancy look-out work in the dark, sir,"
says Bobby Little to Major Kemp.

"Neither should I, very much," said Kemp. "To take one's stand on a
ledge fixed at a height which brings one's head and shoulders well
above the parapet, and stand there for an hour on end, knowing that
a machine-gun may start a spell of rapid traversing fire at any
moment--well, it takes a bit of doing, you know, until you are used to
it. How did you persuade 'em, Bobby?"

"Oh, I just climbed up on the top of the parapet and sat there for a
bit," says Bobby Little modestly. "They were all right after that."

"Had you any excitement, Ayling?" asks Kemp. "I hear rumours that you
had two casualties."

"Yes," says Ayling. "Four of us went out patrolling in front of the
trench--"

"Who?"

"Myself, two men, and old Sergeant Carfrae."

"Carfrae?" Wagstaffe laughs. "That old fire-eater? I remember him at
Paardeberg. You were lucky to get back alive. Proceed, my son!"

"We went out," continues Ayling, "and patrolled."

"How?"

"Well, there you rather have me. I have always been a bit foggy as to
what a patrol really does--what risks it takes, and so on. However,
Carfrae had no doubts on the subject whatever. His idea was to trot
over to the German trenches and look inside."

"Quite so!" agreed Wagstaffe, and Kemp chuckled.

"Well, we were standing by the barbed wire entanglement, arguing the
point, when suddenly some infernal imbecile in our own trenches--"

"Cockerell, for a dollar!" murmurs Wagstaffe. "Don't say he fired at
you!"

"No, he did worse. He let off a fireball."

"Whew! And there you stood in the limelight!"

"Exactly."

"What did you do?"

"I had sufficient presence of mind to do what Carfrae did. I threw
myself on my face, and shouted to the two men to do the same."

"Did they?"

"No. They started to run back towards the trenches. Half a dozen
German rifles opened on them at once."

"Were they badly hit?"

"Nothing to speak of, considering. The shots mostly went high. Preston
got his elbow smashed, and Burke had a bullet through his cap and
another in the region of the waistband. Then they tumbled into the
trench like rabbits. Carfrae and I crawled after them."

At this moment the doorway of the dugout is darkened by a massive
figure, and Major Kemp's colour-sergeant announces--

"There's a parrty of Gairmans gotten oot o' their trenches, sirr. Will
we open fire?"

"Go and have a look at 'em, like a good chap, Wagger," says the Major.
"I want to finish this letter."

Wagstaffe and Bobby Little make their way along the trench until they
come to a low opening marked MAXIM VILLA. They crawl inside, and find
themselves in a semicircular recess, chiefly occupied by an earthen
platform, upon which a machine-gun is mounted. The recess is roofed
over, heavily protected with sandbags, and lined with iron plates;
for a machine-gun emplacement is the object of frequent and pressing
attention from high-explosive shells. There are loopholes to right
and left, but not in front. These deadly weapons prefer diagonal or
enfilade fire. It is not worth while to fire them frontally.

Wagstaffe draws back a strip of sacking which covers one loophole,
and peers out. There, a hundred and fifty yards away, across a sunlit
field, he beholds some twenty grey figures, engaged in the most
pastoral of pursuits, in front of the German trenches.

"They are cutting the grass," he says. "Let 'em, by all means! If they
don't, we must. We don't want their bomb-throwers crawling over here
through a hay-field. Let us encourage them by every means in our
power. It might almost be worth our while to send them a message. Walk
along the trench, Bobby, and see that no excitable person looses off
at them."

Bobby obeys; and peace still broods over the sleepy trench. The only
sound which breaks the summer stillness is the everlasting crack,
crack! of the snipers' rifles. On an off-day like this the sniper is
a very necessary person. He serves to remind us that we are at war.
Concealed in his own particular eyrie, with his eyes for ever laid
along his telescopic sight, he keeps ceaseless vigil over the ragged
outline of the enemy's trenches. Wherever a head, or anything
resembling a head, shows itself, he fires. Were it not for his
enthusiasm, both sides would be sitting in their shirt-sleeves upon
their respective parapets, regarding one another with frank curiosity;
and that would never do. So the day wears on.

Suddenly, from far in our rear, comes a boom, then another. Wagstaffe
sighs resignedly.

"Why can't they let well alone?" he complains. "What's the trouble
now?"

"I expect it's our Divisional Artillery having a little target
practice," says Captain Blaikie. He peers into a neighbouring
trench-periscope. "Yes, they are shelling that farm behind the German
second-line trench. Making good shooting too, for beginners," as a
column of dust and smoke rises from behind the enemy's lines. "But
brother Bosche will be very peevish about it. We don't usually fire at
this time of the afternoon. Yes, there is the haymaking party going
home. There will be a beastly noise for the next half-hour. Pass the
word along for every man to get into his dug-out."

The warning comes none too soon. In five minutes the incensed Hun is
retaliating for the disturbance of his afternoon siesta. A hail
of bullets passes over our trench. Shrapnel bursts overhead.
High-explosive shells rain upon and around the parapet. One drops into
the trench, and explodes, with surprisingly little effect. (Bobby
Little found the head afterwards, and sent it home as a memento of his
first encounter with reality.)

Our trench makes no reply. There is no need. This outburst heralds no
grand assault. It is a mere display of "frightfulness," calculated to
cow the impressionable Briton. We sit close, and make tea. Only the
look-out men, crouching behind their periscopes and loopholes, keep
their posts. The wind is the wrong way for gas, and in any case we all
have respirators. Private M'Leary, the humorist of "A" Company, puts
his on, and pretends to drink his tea through it.

Altogether, the British soldier appears sadly unappreciative either of
"frightfulness" or practical chemistry. He is a hopeless case.

The firing ceases as suddenly as it began. Silence reigns again,
broken only by a solitary shot from a trench-mortar--a sort of
explosive postscript to a half hour's Hymn of Hate.

"And that's that!" Even as he himself after the first successes of the
Roman army and the fleet decided to back down and asked him Flamininus
of proportionality very favorable conditions to accept, reject "the
people", ie of the Nabis at Sparta suffer robbery rabble, not with
the wrong account after the victory afraid obligate and deceived
by lies about the nature of the peace conditions and the approaching
of Aetoler and Asians, as established by the Roman commander offered
peace, and the battle began anew.

There was a battle before the walls and a tower on the same, they were
already by the Romans erstiegen as the kindling of the streets used
Stuermenden again forced to reverse. At last it was because of the
stubborn resistance to an end.

Sparta kept its independence and was not forced to reconsider the
emigrants, nor Achaeischen Bunde join, even the existing Constitution
and monarchic Nabis itself remained intact.

On the other hand, had his Nabis Foreign Possessions, Argos, trade
fairs, the Cretan cities and, moreover, even the whole coast, assign,
commit, neither Foreign alliances to close even lead to war and no other
vessels to keep as two open boats, eventually everything Raubgut
again deliver, hostages to the Romans and make a Kriegskontribution
to pay.

The Spartan emigrants were laconic cities at the coast and this new
folk community, as opposed to the monarchy ruled by the Spartans
are "free laconic" named, hereby in the federal government to enter
Achaeischen.

Their fortunes were not migrated back by them dependent dafuer
landscape was viewed as a substitute, but has been that their wives
and children do not contradict their wishes in Sparta zurueckgehalten
should be.

The Achaeer, although by this disposal except Argos laconic yet
received the free, were not yet satisfied, they had to eliminate
the feared and loathed Nabis, the return of emigrated and the
expansion of achaeischen Symmachie to the whole Peloponnesus expected.

At ease, however, will not fail to recognize that these difficult matters
Flamininus so cheap and fairly regulated, how it is possible, where two
mutually inequitable and unjust political parties to stand against.

In the ancient and deep Verfeindung between the Spartans and Achaeern
would be the incorporation Spartas in the federal Achaeischen a
subjugation Spartas under the same Achaeer come what fairness no
less than the contrary intelligence.

The return of emigrants and the complete restoration of a twenty
years removed regiment would be only a horror Regiment to replace
another set, the way the Flamininus took was just a matter of right,
because he is both extreme parties unsatisfied.

Finally dafuer seemed thoroughly to ensure that the Spartan maritime
and land grabs one end and the regiment had daselbst as it was just
now, only the local community could be uncomfortable.

It is possible that Flamininus the Nabis knew and had to know
how welcome was his personal disposal, including distance, just
once to come to an end and not through incalculable continue spinning
entanglements of the pure feeling of his success to tarnish; also
possible, that he channeled to Sparta as a counterweight against the
power of the Peloponnese in Achaeischen Confederation sought to
preserve.

Meanwhile, the first fault in a secondary point and in the
latter respect, it is unlikely that the Romans are herabliessen the
Achaeer to fear. External least was between the small Greek states
sponsored truce.

But the internal relationships of the various communities gave the
Roman arbitrator to do so. The Macedonian Boeoter wore their
attitude even after the displacement of Macedonians from Greece
open to review, after Flamininus to their requests in their Philippos'
services veteran fellow countrymen to return verstattet had was firmly
of the Macedonian Parteigaenger, Brachyllas, the Board of Cooperative
Boeotischen chosen and also to all manner Flamininus irritated. He
endured it with patience unprecedented: while the Roman-minded Boeoter
who knew what will happen after the departure of the Romans of
their wait, decided the death of the Brachyllas and Flamininus
whose permission they will ask to have believed, at least not said
no. Brachyllas was murdered, therefore, what the Boeoter not merely
to pursue the murderers, but also the individual passing through
their territory of Roman soldiers and their waylay slaying at
500. This was because too arg; Flamininus put them a fine of
a talent for every soldier, and because they did not pay, he took
the nearest troops besieged and Koroneia (558 196). Now we moved on
the request, in fact, let Flamininus to the use of Achaeer and Athens
against a moderately buses from the culprits, and even though the
Macedonian party continuously in the small landscape remained at
the helm, the Romans continued their opposition not liable boys
than in the long transfer of power.

Even in the rest of Greece did Flamininus, where no violence is
concerned, on the intrinsic relationships including neubefreiten
communities groups, the Council and the courts in the hands of the
rich and the Party-minded antimakedonisch your helm to bring the
urban community and the fact that he is what is in each community
according to the law of war to the Romans had fallen to the Gemeindegut
of the proposed city, preferably to the Roman interest to attach.

In the spring 560 (194) was the work terminated: Flamininus gathered
again in Corinth all the members of the Greek communities, exhorted
them to be circumspect and moderate use of their freedom and requested
lent itself as the only Gegengabe for the Romans, that the Italian
prisoners who during the War of Hannibal after Greece had been
sold, within thirty days of its submission.

Then he admitted the last strongholds, where the crew was still
Roman, Demetrias, Chalkis dependent besides the smaller forts on Evia,
and Akrokorinth, so the speech of Aetoler that Rome from the fetters
of Greece Philippos inherited Lueger really punishing, and moved
with all the Roman troops and liberated the prisoners in the home.

Only by the contemptuous dishonesty or feeble sentimentality may be
aware that with the liberation of Greece the Romans completely
seriously, and the reason why the great plan created a so - stunted
buildings delivered, only to find in the complete moral and public
resolution of the Hellenic nation. It was nothing less that a
powerful nation, the country which they had used as their original
home and the sanctuary of their mental and higher interests to
consider, with their powerful arm suddenly to full freedom of each
community and led the liberation of the same foreign estimation and
foreign occupation and the full self-government granted, only the
Jaemmerlichkeit sees this not as a political calculation.

The political calculus made the liberation of Greece the Romans
possible to reality, she was by then also in Rome and especially
in Flamininus itself indescribably powerful Hellenistic sympathies.

    If an allegation meets the Romans, it is the fact that
    they all, and especially the Flamininus the well of the Senate
over concerns wand, the magic of the Hellenic name prevented the
wretched of the then Greek government in its full extent to recognize
and that all the communities, with their self-fermenting and powerless
against antipathies neither act nor be understood to keep quiet,
their goings and also permitted.

    As it once was, it was much more necessary, such as meager as harmful
to freedom through a spot permanently present an overview of power
and for all an end to the weakly Gefuehlspolitik was apparent in
all their humanity more cruel than the most stringent occupation
would have been.

    Viotia In Rome, for example, had a political murder, if not lead,
but allowed, because you once chose the Roman troops from Greece
and thus move the Roman minded Greeks could not resist that
landueblicher way she helped herself.

    But Rome itself suffered from the consequences of this half-.

    The war with Antiochos would not have arisen without the political
mistakes of the liberation of Greece, and he would be about the
military remained without error, from the main strongholds of a
European border crews move.

    The story has a nemesis for every sin, for the Impotent desire for
freedom as for the foolish magnanimity 9.

    Chapter The war against Antiochus of Asia in the Asian Rich
    wore the diadem of the Seleucid since the year 531 (223) of King
    Antiochos the third, the great-grandson of the founder of the
    dynasty. He also was the same with Philippos nineteen years
    to come, and government activities and had enough entrepreneurial
spirit, especially in his first campaigns in the East, without too
arge to ridicule in the Great Hofstil to hot.

    More, however, by the looseness of his opponents, notably the
Egyptian Philopator than by his own ability he was able to maintain
the integrity of the monarchy recover somewhat and the first eastern
Satrapi Parthyene media and, subsequently, from this side of the
Achaeos Tauro in Asia Minor has expressed special state again with
the crown to unite.

    A first attempt, the Syrian sorely lacked Kuestenland to wrest the
Egyptians, was in the Battle of Trasimeno in raffia Philopator
bloody been rejected, and Antiochos had well guarded, the dispute
with Egypt again, as long as there is a man, albeit a slack, sat
on the throne.

    But after Philopators death (549 205) seemed the right moment has
come to Egypt to an end; Antiochos connected to this end with
Philippos and had to be thrown Koilesyrien, while those to Asia
Minor cities attacked.

    When the Romans intervened here, it seemed for a moment, as though
Antiochus against them with Philippos community thing, as the
situation of things and the Buendnisvertrag there with them.

    Solo not farsighted enough to have the interference of the Romans
in the affairs of the East with all the energy immediately rejected,
Antiochos believed his best advantage to maintain if he Philippos'
overwhelmingness easily anticipated by the Romans to create the
Egyptian empire, the He had Philippos want to share, and now for
himself alone to win.

    Despite the close relations of Rome to the Alexandrian royal court
and the ward but the Senate had no intention, really, as he called
it, his "protector" to be determined to be the Asian affairs otherwise
than in extreme emergencies trouble and the circle of the Roman
power with the columns of Hercules and the Hellespont to limit, he
makes the big Koenig.

    With the conquest of Egypt proper, which are easier said than done,
admittedly liked it even this is not quite serious, while he went
out, Egypt's external possessions one after the other to subjugate
and attacked first the Cilician and Syrian and Palestinian at .

    The great victory, which he in the year 556 (198) on the mountains
in Jordan Panion sources about the Egyptian commander Skopas erfocht,
not only gave him the full possession of this territory to the
border of Egypt proper, but startled the Egyptian guardians of the
young King So much so that the same order of Antiochos indentation
in Egypt to hold themselves to the peace bequemten and the betrothal
of their ward with the daughter of Antiochus, Cleopatra, sealed the
peace.

    When is the next goal was, and went Antiochos in the following year,
the Battle of Kynoskephalae, with a strong fleet of 100 top open
and 100 ships to Asia Minor, the former Egyptian possessions in the
south and west coasts of Asia Minor in possession to take - probably
the Egyptian government had these districts, which in fact Philippos'
hands were in the peace of Antiochus, and was about even on all
Foreign possessions abandoned in its favor - and all over the Asia
Minor Greeks back to the rich to bring.

    At the same time gathered a strong Syrian Landheer in Sardis.

    This start was indirectly directed against the Romans, which from
the beginning Philippos the condition had its crews pull away from
Asia Minor and the Pergamon Rhodiern and their territory, their
Freistaedten the existing constitution to allow ungekraenkt and now
at Philippos' body to conquer the same Antiochos had seen.

    Immediately however, saw themselves and the Attalos Rhodier Antiochos
perfectly now with the same danger threatens, they a few years
before the wars against Philip had driven, and of course they
searched the Romans in this war as well as in the previous discharges
to entangle.

    Already 555/56 (199/98) had Attalos by the Roman military sought
help against Antiochus, who had occupied its territory, while
Attalus' Roman troops in the war were.

    The vigorous Rhodier declared the king Antiochos even, than in
    spring 557 (197) whose fleet at the Asia Minor coast and sailed
up to the crossing of Chelidonischen islands (on the Lycian coast)
as a declaration of war would be, and when this project Antiochos
not returned , they were encouraged by the just arriving customer
of the Battle of Kynoskephalae, immediately the war began and the
main cities Carian Kaunos, Halicarnassus, Myndos, also the island
of Samos, in fact, before Koenig protected.

    Similarly, the semi cities while most had the same united, only
some of the same, including the major cities of Smyrna, Alexandreia,
Trogen Lampsakos and had the customer by the overwhelming Philipps
also get the courage to join the Syrians to oppose them, and their
urgent requests united with those of Rhodier.

    There is no doubt that Antiochus, as far as he was about at all
ready, a decision-making and noted, now it is found not only the
Egyptian possessions in Asia itself, but also in Europe to conquer
for himself and that is why a war with Rome where not to look, but
it is important to get it.

    The Romans had in that all cause, request that their allies want
to go in Asia and to intervene directly, but they bezeigten so
little.

    Zauderte Not just one, while the Macedonian war lasted, and gave
the Attalos nothing but the use of diplomatic protection, First
make the other proved effective, but even after the victory it can
probably be said, that the cities, the Ptolemaeos and Philippos in
hands had no Antiochos should be taken into possession, and the
freedom of the Asian cities Mirina, Abydos, Lampsakos ^ 1, Chios
figured in the Roman Aktenstuecken, but you did not the slightest
to enforce it and had it happened that King Antiochus the great
opportunity of the deduction of Macedonian crews used the same to
his hineinzulegen.

    Yes you went so far himself whose landing in Europe in the spring
557 (197) and the indentation in the Thracian Chersonesos like to
be where he Sestos and Madytos possession and took a long time
related to the punishment of the Thracian barbarians and the
restoration of the destroyed Lysimacheia that he be his main weapon
and space for the capital of the newly-established Satrapi Thrace
had chosen.

    Flamininus in whose hands the management of these matters was in
accordance Lysimacheia probably sent to the envoys Koenig, the
integrity of the Egyptian territory and the freedom of all Hellenes
talked alone there was nothing out.

    The king spoke again of his undeniable right to the old songs from
his Ahnherrn Seleukos conquered kingdom of Lysimachos, set apart,
not that he employs it, to conquer land, but only the integrity of
its territory to protect incumbents, and rejected the mediation of
Roman his disputes with him untertaenigen cities in Asia Minor from.

    By law, he could add that peace with Egypt is already closed and
it was the Romans so far on a formal basis is lacking to intervene
^ 2 The sudden return of the king to Asia, prompted by the false
news of the death of the young king of Egypt, and thereby caused a
landing on projects or even in Kypros Alexandreia, finished the
conferences without having to even to a degree, let alone gives a
result would come.

    The following year 559 (195) came back after Antiochos Lysimacheia
with a reinforced fleet and army, and deals with the establishment
of the new Satrapi, which his son Seleukos certain in Ephesos
Hannibal came to him, of Carthage had landfluechtig must be, and
the uncommonly honorable reception which was given him, was as good
as a declaration of war against Rome.

    Nevertheless, even in spring drew 560 (194) ALL Flamininus Roman
occupation of Greece out.

It was among at least a ratio obwaltenden arge wrong, if not a culpable
act against their own better knowledge, because the idea can not
reject that Flamininus to the glory of the only entirely discharges
war and liberated Hellas heimzubringen undiminished, is merely the
glowing fire of the revolt and the war to spill temporarily
superficial.

The Roman statesman might perhaps be right if it is any attempt,
directly in Roman Greece Botmaessigkeit and to any intervention by
the Romans in the Asian affairs for a stated policy mistakes, but
the brewing opposition in Greece, the high spirits of the poor
Asians to linger bitter enemy of the Romans, who has the West in
arms against Rome had brought the Syrian headquarters, all these
were clear signs of the approaching of a new plate collection of
Hellenistic East, which had to be at least objective, Greece from
the Roman clientele in the antiroemisch minded states to bring and,
if this has been achieved would immediately be more ambitious would
have.

It is obvious that this is not Rome could be done. By Flamininus, those
ignoring safe-war signs, the crew from Greece wegzog while still
on the king of Asia demands that, for the march to leave he was not
minded, he did too much in words, deeds in which too little and
forgot his Mr Field and civic duty on their own vanity, the peace
of Rome and the Greeks in the two parts of the world the freedom
to have wants and deeming. ----------------------
-------------------------------- ^ 1 According to a recent decree
of the city of those Lampsakos (ON 6, 1891, p. 95) sent the Lampsakener
after the defeat of Philip envoys to the Roman Senate with the
request that the city is in between Rome and the king (Philip)
contract to be included like (op / o / s symperil / e / phth / o /
men [en tais synth / e / Kaiser] tais genomenais R / o / maiois
pros ton [Basel]), which the Senate, at least in the opinion of the
petitioners, and granted the same in the rest of Flamininus and the
ten envoys rejected.

From that request the same in Corinth and their constitutional
guarantee letters for kings.

Flamininus gives them even like writing, about the content we learn
nothing further details than that in the decree as the legation
successfully called.

In other words, you "get no forrarder" with a trench; and the
one thing which we are all anxious to do out here is to bring this war
to a speedy and gory conclusion, and get home to hot baths and regular
meals.

So a few days ago we were not at all surprised to be informed,
officially, that trench life is to be definitely abandoned, and
Hun-hustling to begin in earnest.

(To be just, this decision was made months ago: the difficulty was to
put it into execution. The winter weather was dreadful. The enemy
were many and we were few. In Germany, the devil's forge at Essen
was roaring night and day: in Great Britain Trades Union bosses were
carefully adjusting the respective claims of patriotism and personal
dignity before taking their coats off. So we cannot lay our want of
progress to the charge of that dogged band of Greathearts which has
been holding on, and holding on, and holding on--while the people at
home were making up for lost time--ever since the barbarian was hurled
back from the Marne to the Aisne and confined behind his earthen
barrier. We shall win this war one day, and most of the credit will
go, as usual, to those who are in at the finish. But--when we assign
the glory and the praise, let us not forget those who stood up to the
first rush. The new armies which are pouring across the Channel this
month will bring us victory in the end. Let us bare our heads,
then, in all reverence, to the memory of those battered, decimated,
indomitable legions which saved us from utter extinction at the
beginning.)

The situation appears to be that if we get through--and no one seems
to doubt that we shall: the difficulty lies in staying there when you
have got through--we shall be committed at once to an endless campaign
of village-fighting. This country is as flat as Cambridgeshire.
Every yard of it is under cultivation. The landscape is dotted with
farm-steadings. There is a group of cottages or an _estaminet_ at
every cross-roads. When our great invading line sweeps forward,
each one of these buildings will be held by the enemy, and must be
captured, house by house, room by room, and used as a base for another
rush.

And how is this to be done?

Well, it will be no military secret by the time these lines appear. It
is no secret now. The answer to the conundrum is--Bombs!

To-day, out here, bombs are absolutely _dernier cri_. We talk of
nothing else. We speak about rifles and bayonets as if they were so
many bows and arrows. It is true that the modern Lee-Enfield and
Mauser claim to be the most precise and deadly weapons of destruction
ever devised. But they were intended for proper, gentlemanly warfare,
with the opposing sides set out in straight lines, a convenient
distance apart. In the hand-to-hand butchery which calls itself war
to-day, the rifle is rapidly becoming _démodé_. For long ranges you
require machine-guns; for short, bombs and hand-grenades. Can you
empty a cottage by firing a single rifle-shot in at the door? He probably
felt in his grave and written very well what his nation was: If
gods for the people - ziemte mourning the dead, The poet Naevius
complained - Camenen divine; Dieweil, since he was down - to the
shadow abschied, disappeared in Rome - the glory of Roman speech.
------------------------------------------ ------- ^ 18 The staff
notes about Naevius arg are confused.

Because he challenged the First Punic War, he can not by 495 (259)
to be born. 519 (235) shows were probably the first of him (Gell.
12, 21, 45). The fact that he was 550 (204) had died, as usually
stated, doubted Varro (in Cic. Brut. 15, 60) is certainly right,
would it be true, he would have during the war in Hannibal
escaped his enemies country. Even the satirical verses on Scipio can
not start before the Battle of Zama written. Man's life is between
490 (264) and 560 (194) may set, so it amusing anecdotes of the
two 543 (211) fallen Scipione (Cic. rep. 4, 10), ten years younger
than Andronicus and perhaps ten years older than Plautus was. His
kampa African origin suggests Gellius, Latin his nationality, if there
is evidence of need, he himself in the grave font. if he is
not Roman citizens, but some residents of Cale or any other
Latin city of Campania, so it is easily explained that the Roman
police him so ruthlessly dealt with. actor, he was in any case,
since he served in the army. ^ 19 Man compare with, for example
livianischen the fragments of Naevius' fiasco 'Lycurgus': The royal
womb of her keep watch, soon to arbor place rich get to willingly
ungepflanzt emporsprosst Where the bushes.

Or the famous words that in' Hector farewell ' Hector to Priam says:
Lieblich, father sounds you praise me, the much-man and the lovely
verse from the 'Maedel of Taranto': adnutat alii, alii adnictat;
amat Alium, Alium Tenet. To this she nods, after that it looks and those
in the heart, in the arm. ---------------------------------------
------- And such men and poets pride ziemte probably the man who
struggles against the Hamilkar against Hannibal and partly witnessed
and partly mitfocht myself, and deeply moving for the tremendous
joy and jubilation Superior not just the highest poetic but probably
an efficient, skilled and popular poetic expression took place.

It's already been told in what Haendel with the authorities about it,
he fell and how he, probably thus expelled from Rome, his life in Utica
decided.

Again, the individual's life over the common best, the beauty about
the useful basis.

In the outer position as the poet considers his work seems to him
his younger contemporary, Titus Maccius Plautus (500 - 570 254 -
184). far nachgestanden to have.

Born in the small Umbrian originally, but then, maybe even latinisierten
town Sassina, he lived in Rome as an actor and, after he made so
that the profit in commercial speculation was taking important
again, as a theater writer for the processing of Greek comedies,
in another without times the literature to be active and probably
without any real claim to Schriftstellertum to make.

Such handwerksmaessigen Komoedienbearbeiter seem to exist in Rome
at that time quite a number, where to have their names alone,
especially since they probably throughout their pieces published ^
20 is not as good as lost, and what of this repertoire is received,
later went on the name of the most popular among them, of Plautus.

The Literatoren of the following century, until such hundertunddreissig
"plautinischer pieces" of which, however, in any case a large part
only by Plautus or perused it quite strange was that the core is still
there. A verdict founded on the poetic origins of the agent to cases,
is still very difficult, if not impossible, because the originals
are not preserved.
"Plenty of time yet," explains Captain Blaikie to his subalterns, in
reply to Bobby Little's expressions of impatience. "It's this way. We
start by 'isolating' a section of the enemy's line, and pound it with
artillery for about forty-eight hours. Then the guns knock off, and
the people in front rush the German first-line trenches. After that
they push on to their second and third lines; and if they can capture
and _hold them_--well, that's where the fun comes in. We go for all we
are worth through the gaps the others have made, and carry on the big
push, and keep the Bosches on the run until they drop in their tracks!
That's the situation. If we are called up to-night or to-morrow, it
will mean that things are going well. If not, it means that the attack
has failed--or, very likely, has succeeded, but it has been found
impossible to secure the position--and a lot of good chaps have been
scuppered, all for nothing."


III

Next morning has arrived, and with it the news that our services
will not be required. Comedy! Good word! What other consolation was
the old widowed father? Say - and for the moment the answer is you
still live my son - what was left me, in my back room, caught by
ungetreuen staff, to the old bones? And my son went in rejoicing
throughout the world, closed shops, which I had prepared before
überpurzelte pleasure and went before his father with the closed
face of a man's honor them!

Do you believe that I have not loved thee, I, from which you started?
"" Now, it will prevent, "George thought," if he fell and shattered,
"This word durchzischte his head. The father bent down, but fell
not. Since George is not approached, as he had expected, he rose
again. "Stay where you are, I need thee not! Think you do not have
the strength to come here and hold you back just because you want it.
The fact that you're not wrong! I am still much stronger. Solo maybe I
should back away, but it gave me the mother of their power is
delivered, with your friend, I have connected beautifully, your
customers, I have here in your pocket!

"" Even in the shirt pocket, he has, "said Georg and believed that
he could him with this remark in the world impossible. Only a
moment he thought that, ever since he forgot everything. "Hanging
yourself in your wedding and come me! I sweeping them out away from
the side, you do not know how! "George made grimaces as he does not
believe. The father nodded simply, the truth of what he said, beteuernd
in Georgs corner out. "How did you entertain me today than you did
and asked if you have your friend from the Engagements shalt write.
He knows everything, stupid boy, but he knows everything! I wrote to
him yet, because thou hast forgotten me write the stuff away.

That's why he has been banned for years, he knows everything a
hundred times better than you yourself, your unread letters he
crumpled in his left hand while he was in the right to read my
letters to vorhält, "he swung his arm with enthusiasm over the head .

"He knows everything a thousand times better," he cried.

"Zehntausendmal," said George, the father to laugh at, but still
in his mouth got the word a toternsten sound.

"For many years do I have to buy into this matter would ! Do you
think I care anything else? Do you think I read newspapers? Da!
"And he threw George a newspaper sheet that is somehow related to
the bed had been taken to.

An old newspaper, with a George quite unknown name. "How long have you
been reluctant to become ripe before you are!

The mother had to die, she could not experience the Freudentag, the
friend is based in his Russia, three years before he was yellow to throw
away, and I, yes you can see how it stands with me. For thou hast
eyes! "" You have given me so aufgelauert, "cried George. Pitying
incidentally the father said:" The sooner you probably wanted
to say. Now it fits so no more. "And louder:" So now you know what
it is unless you were previously knewest you only from you! An
innocent child, you were actually, but were still true you are a
devilish human being! - And therefore know that I condemn you to death
now of drowning, "George felt chased out of the room, the shock,
with the father behind him collapsed on the bed, he is still in the
ears of them.

On the staircase, whose steps as he has a crooked land hastened, his
surprise Bedienerin the terms was heraufzugehen to the apartment after
the night clean up. "Jesus!" She cried, and with the apron concealed
the face, but he was already like this. From the gate, he jumped
over the roadway to the water drove him there. Already, he noted the
railing, like a hungry food. He swung about, as the excellent Turner,
who in his youth years at the pride of his parents had been. Still,
he is weakening hands, spied between the railing bars a car
Omnibus, with ease of his case would drown, cried softly, "Dear
parents, I have always loved you," and settled hinabfallen. At
that moment, went over the bridge an almost endless traffic.

From the same author also appeared: Betrachtungen. 2. Circulation stapled
M. 2.50, Pappband M. 4:50 M. 3:50 Halblederband The stokers. A fragment
of 0.80 stapled M., M. hardback 1:50 Die Verwandlung. 1.60 novella
tacked M., M. hardback 2:50 VERLAG KURT WOLFF - LEIPZIG
Then comes an earth-shaking crash a mile
behind us. We whip round, and there, in the failing evening light,
against the sunset, there springs up the silhouette of a mighty tree
in full foliage. Presently the silhouette disperses, drifts away,
and--

"The coals is hame, right enough!" comments Private Tosh.

Instantly our guns reply, and we become the humble spectators of an
artillery duel. Of course, if the enemy gets tired of "searching"
the countryside for our guns and takes to "searching" our trenches
instead, we lose all interest in the proceedings, and retire to our
dug-outs, hoping that no direct hits will come our way.

But guns are notoriously erratic in their time-tables, and fickle in
their attentions. It is upon Zacchaeus and Unter den Linden--including
Minnie--that we mainly rely for excitement.

As already recorded, we took over these trenches a few days ago, in
the small hours of the morning. In the ordinary course of events,
relieving parties are usually able to march up under cover of darkness
to the reserve trench, half a mile in rear of the firing line, and
so proceed to their appointed place. But on this occasion the German
artillery happened to be "distributing coal" among the billets behind.
This made it necessary to approach our new home by tortuous ways, and
to take to subterranean courses at a very early stage of the journey.
For more than two hours we toiled along a trench just wide enough to
permit a man to wear his equipment, sometimes bent double to avoid the
bullets of snipers, sometimes knee-deep in glutinous mud.

Ayling, leading a machine-gun section who were burdened with their
weapons and seven thousand rounds of ammunition, mopped his steaming
brow and inquired of his guide how much farther there was to go.

"Abart two miles, sir," replied the youth with gloomy satisfaction.
He was a private of the Cockney regiment whom we were relieving; and
after the manner of his kind, would infinitely have preferred to
conduct us down half a mile of a shell-swept road, leading straight to
the heart of things, than waste time upon an uninteresting but safe
_détour_.

At this Ayling's Number One, who was carrying a machine-gun tripod
weighing forty-eight pounds, said something--something distressingly
audible--and groaned deeply.

"If we'd come the way I wanted," continued the guide, much pleased
with the effect of his words upon his audience, "we'd a' been there be
now. But the Adjutant, 'e says to me--"

"If we had come the way you wanted," interrupted Ayling brutally, "we
should probably have been in Kingdom Come by now. Hurry up!" Ayling,
in common with the rest of those present, was not in the best of
tempers, and the loquacity of the guide had been jarring upon him for
some time.

The Cockney private, with the air of a deeply-wronged man, sulkily led
on, followed by the dolorous procession. Another ten minutes' laboured
progress brought them to a place where several ways met.

"This is the beginning of the reserve trenches, sir," announced the
guide. "If we'd come the way I--"

"Lead on!" said Ayling, and his perspiring followers murmured
threatening applause.

The guide, now in his own territory, selected the muddiest opening and
plunged down it. For two hundred yards or so he continued serenely
upon his way, with the air of one exhibiting the metropolis to a party
of country cousins. He passed numerous turnings. Then, once or
twice, he paused irresolutely; then moved on. Finally he halted, and
proceeded to climb out of the trench.

"What are you doing?" demanded Ayling suspiciously.

"We got to cut across the open 'ere, sir," said the youth glibly.
"Trench don't go no farther. Keep as low as you can."

With resigned grunts the weary pilgrims hoisted themselves and their
numerous burdens out of their slimy thoroughfare, and followed their
conductor through the long grass in single file, feeling painfully
conspicuous against the whitening sky. Presently they discovered, and
descended into, another trench--all but the man with the tripod, who
descended into it before he discovered it--and proceeded upon their
dolorous way. Once more the guide, who had been refreshingly but
ominously silent for some time, paused irresolutely.

"Look here, my man," said Ayling, "do you, or do you not, know where
you are?"

The paragon replied hesitatingly:--

"Well, sir, if we'd come by the way I--"

Ayling took a deep breath, and though conscious of the presence of
formidable competitors, was about to make the best of an officer's
vocabulary, when a kilted figure loomed out of the darkness.

"Hallo! Who are you?" inquired Ayling.

"This iss the Camerons' trenches, sirr," replied a polite West
Highland voice. "What trenches wass you seeking?"

Ayling told him.

"They are behind you, sirr."

"I was just goin' to say, sir," chanted the guide, making one last
effort to redeem his prestige, "as 'ow--"

"Party," commanded Ayling, "about turn!"

Having received details of the route from the friendly Cameron, he
scrambled out of the trench and crawled along to what was now the head
of the procession. A plaintive voice followed him.

"Beg pardon, sir, where shall _I_ go now?"

Ayling answered the question explicitly, and moved off, feeling much
better. The late conductor of the party trailed disconsolately in the
rear.

"I should like to know wot I'm 'ere for," he murmured indignantly.

He got his answer, like a lightning-flash.

"For tae carry _this_," said the man with the tripod, turning round.
"Here, caatch!"


II

The day's work in trenches begins about nine o'clock the night
before. Darkness having fallen, various parties steal out into the
no-man's-land beyond the parapet. There are numerous things to be
done. The barbed wire has been broken up by shrapnel, and must be
repaired. The whole position in front of the wire must be patrolled,
to prevent the enemy from creeping forward in the dark. The corn has
grown to an uncomfortable height in places, so a fatigue party is told
off to cut it--surely the strangest species of harvesting that the
annals of agriculture can record. On the left front the muffled
clinking of picks and shovels announces that a "sap" is in course of
construction: those incorrigible night-birds, the Royal Engineers, are
making it for the machine-gunners, who in the fulness of time will
convey their voluble weapon to its forward extremity, and "loose off
a belt or two" in the direction of a rather dangerous hollow midway
between the trenches, from which of late mysterious sounds of digging
and guttural talking have been detected by the officer who lies in
the listening-post, in front of our barbed-wire entanglement, drawing
secrets from the bowels of the earth by means of a microphone.

Behind the firing trench even greater activity prevails. Damage
done to the parapet by shell fire is being repaired. Positions and
emplacements are being constantly improved, communication trenches
widened or made more secure. Down these trenches fatigue parties are
filing, to draw rations and water and ammunition from the limbered
waggons which are waiting in the shadow of a wood, perhaps a mile
back. It is at this hour, too, that the wounded, who have been lying
pathetically cheerful and patient in the dressing-station in the
reserve trench, are smuggled to the Field Ambulance--probably to find
themselves safe in a London hospital within twenty-four hours. Lastly,
under the kindly cloak of night, we bury our dead.

Meanwhile, within various stifling dug-outs, in the firing trench or
support-trench, overheated company commanders are dictating reports
or filling in returns. (Even now the Round Game Department is not
entirely shaken off.) There is the casualty return, and a report on
the doings of the enemy, and another report of one's own doings, and a
report on the direction of the wind, and so on. Then there are various
indents to fill up--scrawled on a wobbly writing-block with a blunt
indelible pencil by the light of a guttering candle--for ammunition,
and sandbags, and revetting material.

Hamilkar had in recent years his war sizilischen Sold Soeldner
not like the former from its own resources and can pay off in vain
remittances from daheim requested; It is intended, "it was said,
the only team to send to Africa Abloehnung. He obeyed, but as the
people he knew, he embarked into smaller sections, so that they go forth
as abloehnen or at least set apart, and this presented itself to
the supreme command established.

With all the precautions failed, not so much to the empty
treasury as at the collegiate course of business and the foolishness
of the bureaucracy. We waited until the whole army returned to
Libya and attempted to stand united then, the people of the promised
Solde shorter. Of course, a mutiny among the troops, and the
insecure and cowardly behavior of the authorities showed the
mutineers, which they could dare. Most of them were born in Carthage
dominated by or dependent districts, they knew the mood, which the
government decreed after the butchery course of Regulus and the
terrible pressure control had caused there everywhere, and knew
their government, the word never was and never forgave, they knew
what awaited her when the mob mathematically Solde extorted their
homes scattered.

For a long time it was in Carthage, the mine and dug ordered now
even the people who could not otherwise than they burn. Like a wild
fire crews took the Revolution to the crew, village to village, the
Libyan women wore their jewelry bring to the mercenaries, the
Loehnung to pay a lot of Carthaginian citizens, including some of
the excellent sizilischen army officers were the victims of the
bitter lot , was in Carthage on two sides and the siege of the city
Outdent Carthaginian army by the wrong leader of unskilful entirely
beaten. How so in Rome the hated and feared enemy still hover saw
greater danger than ever the Roman wars brought about him had one
began, more and more the peace of 513 (241) to regret that when he
was not really premature, at least now all the rash appeared, and
to forget how exhausted at the time of its nationals had been, how
powerful the Carthaginian dagestanden had at that time. The shame is
prohibited, with the Carthaginian rebels open in touch, so we
allowed the Carthaginians, exceptionally, to the war in Italy to
organize ads, and prohibited the Italic boatmen, with the Libyans
to operate. However, may be doubted whether the government of Rome
with these friendly dispositions nationwide was very serious. As
none of the transport of African Insurgente with the Roman ships
fortging and Hamilkar, the extreme danger back to the top of the
Carthaginian army had RECONSTITUTED, a number of interested Italic
be apprehended and Captain einsteckte, related to the Senate for the
same in the Carthaginian government and brought their munificent. The
Insurgente himself seemed to the Romans in their natural allies to
recognize the Sardinian crews, which equals the other Carthaginian army
is declared for the rebels had offered, as they are unable saw the
island against the onslaught of unbezwungenen mountain dwellers
from the inside to keep possession of the Romans (by 515 239), and
similar accept even came from the municipality of Utica, which also
participated in the uprising had taken part, and now through the
weapons Hamilkars was distressed over the extreme.

The offer of the latter showed you back in Rome, probably mainly because
it is on the natural boundaries of Italy, and so also would have
weitergefuehrt, when the Roman government had to go thought, while she
went to accept the Sardinian mutineers and acquired by them, what of
Sardinia in the hands of the Carthaginians had been (516 238). With
heavier weight than in the matter of Mamertiner Roemer here take
the blame of that great and winning residents is not spurned, with
the hone Soeldnergesindel brotherhood and to share the prey, and it is
not about winning the bidding of the right and honor the current
profit nachzusetzen. The Carthaginians, whose distress at the
time of the occupation of Sardinia on the highest rise was
temporarily silent about the unauthorized rape; after this danger,
however, contrary to expectations, and probably reflect the Verhoffen
by Roemer Hamilkars genius averted and Carthage in Africa back
into full domination set was (517 237), appeared immediately in
Rome Carthaginian envoys to demand restitution of Sardinia.

The Romans, not inclined to re-publish the robbery, responded with
invalid or not belonging here complaints about all sorts of injustice,
which the Roman Carthaginian merchants should have added, and hastened
to declare war on ^ 1 and the percentage that the policy than any
of what he can, came out in his unconcealed shamelessness. The
exasperation was called just the Carthaginians, the war offered to
accept, would have Catulus five years ago on assignment consisted
of Sardinia, the war would probably have had his progress. Solo
now, when both islands lost, Libya in fermentation, the state
vierundzwanzigjaehrigen by the war with Rome and the nearly
five-year civil war over the horrific extreme weakened, had to add
you probably are.

Only on repeated requests and flehentliche after the Phoenicians
had undertaken for the willfully Kriegsruestungen led a compensation
of 1200 talents (2 million thalers) to Rome to pay were the Romans
reluctantly from starting wars.

Thus acquired almost without a struggle Rome Sardinia, Corsica what
you said, the old Etruscan possession, in perhaps the last
individual wars since Roman crews stood. Indes restricted Roemer,
just as the Phoenicians had done, in Sardinia, and more Corsica in
the rough to the occupation of the coasts.

With the natives in the interior led to Sustainable wars, or rather
we drove there the manhunt: you rushed them with dogs, and led the
product caught on the slave market, but at a serious went subjugation
is not. Not for the sake of the islands had occupied, but to secure
Italy.

Since the three major islands had enabled the Confederation the
Tyrrhenian Sea call theirs. --------------------------------
------------- ^ 1 That the assignment of between Sicily and Italy
lying islands, which the Peace of 513 (241) instructed the
Carthaginians, the cession of Sardinia is not included, is identified
(cf. 2 , 60), but it is also poorly authenticated that the Roman
occupation of the island three years after the peace so motivated.

Had they done it, they would merely political shamelessness a
diplomatic silliness added. --------------------------------
------------- The collection of islands in the Italic Westsee led
into the Roman state a contrast, which although seems to be merely
accidental and almost Zweckmaessigkeitsruecksichten arose, but that
is no less for the whole Subsequently, from the deepest meaning has
become, the antithesis to the continental and overseas management
mode or to the later need to be familiar names, the contrast of
Italy and the provinces.

Until then, the two highest officials of the municipality, the
consuls, a legally demarcated Sprengel had not, but its consular
district extends as far as over all the Roman regiment, which is
of course obvious that they are in fact in the shared office area,
and also goes without saying that they are in each district of its
jurisdiction through the existing provisions were bound, for example,
the jurisdiction over Roman citizens throughout the praetor to leave
and in the Latin and other autonomous communities, the existing
contracts to be had.

Since 487 (267) distributed by Italy four Quaestors restricted
consular authority formally at least not by them in Italy as well
as in Rome just as the consuls-sensitive help officers were.

It seems this type of management also initially removed to Carthage
territories such as Sardinia and Sicily a few years by Quaestors
under supervision of the consuls to have governed alone very soon
knew almost from the indispensability own authority for the overseas
landscapes convince.

How to get the concentration of the Roman jurisdiction in the person
of the praetor in the enlargement of the community had to give up
and in the distant districts deputy court must send men had, as now
arrogates (527 227), the administrative-military concentration in
the person of the consuls be abandoned .

For each of the new territories overseas, both for Sicily for Sardinia
and Corsica in addition, became a special addition Konsul used to
rank and title of the post-consul and the praetor was the same, by
the way, however, equal to the Consul of the older time before setting
up the Praetur, in his district while Oberfeld Lord, Oberamt man and
was Chief Justice. Only the immediate cash management grew out of the
box as the consuls, so even those new top officials revoked and they
have one or more Quaestors admitted, albeit in all ways subordinate
to them and in the administration of justice in the command as its
agents were, but the treasury department to lead and resignation
about their duties in the Senate bill had to be.

This disparity in upper management much difference to the overseas
possessions of the continental Rome. The principles under which the
Rome-based landscapes in Italy had organized, were largely on the
possessions ausseritalischen way. That the communities, without
exception, the independence of the foreign gegenueber lost, goes
without saying what the internal traffic is concerned, it was
henceforth no provincials from his own community in the province
right to acquire property, maybe not a right marriage schliessen.

       In contrast, the Roman government permitted the least sizilischen
cities that we had nothing to fear, a federal organization and
probably even general sikeliotische Landtage with an innocuous
petition and right of appeal ^ 2 In the coinage, it was probably
not possible, the Roman Courant now also on the islands for only
validated, but statutory rate seems the same but from the outset
to have received as well, at least in general, the cities in Sicily,
the Roman law, in precious metals, coins, have been withdrawn to
be ^ 3rd On the other hand, was not merely the property in Sicily
untouched - the rate that the country ausseritalische martial law
by the Romans to the private property had expired, was still unknown
to this century - but it also kept all the sizilischen Sardinian
municipalities and the government and a degree of autonomy which
admittedly is not legally binding assurances to them, but was
provisionally approved.

If the democratic community constitutions abolished everywhere and in
every city the power into the hands of the urban aristocracy laid
ward council representative, if also the least sizilischen communities
were instructed every fifth year to the Roman census corresponding
to organize a Gemeindeschaetzung, it was both a necessary consequence
of the subordination to the Roman Senate, which works with and
without Greek Ekklesien Overview of financial and military aid for
each dependent communities, in fact, could not govern, and also in
the Italian countryside was, in this as in that respect, the same
happened. -- -------------------------------------------------- ^
2 However, the result partly Any "Siculer" against Marcellus (Liv.
26, 26 f.), sometimes the "total input of all sizilischen communities"
(Cic. verr. 2, 42, 102, 45, 114, 50146, 3, 88 , 204), sometimes
known analogies (Marquardt, Land Book Vol 3 1, p. 267).

From the lack commercium between cities is the lack of Concilium
still no. ^ 3 So strictly as in Italy was the gold and Silbermuenzrecht
in the provinces of Rome is not monopolized, apparently because of
the non-Roman foot beaten gold and silver money It arrived less.

But undoubtedly the Praegstaetten also usually limited to a maximum
of copper or silver Kleinmuenze been limited, as the best by communities
of Roman Sicily, as the Mamertiner the Kentoripiner the Halaesiner the
Segestane much the only copper Panormitaner beaten.
---------------------------------------------- But besides this
essential equality of rights was among the Italic one overseas
communities and the other is a sequence of difference.

During the Italian cities with the same contracts concluded a fixed quota
to the army or the fleet of the Romans imposed were the overseas
communities, with which a binding Paktierung nothing was received,
so moving was not imposed, but they lost the arms right ^ 4, only
that after deployment of the Roman praetor to defend their own home
could be used. The Roman government regularly sent Italian troops
in the set of her strength on the islands; dafuer was the tithe of
sizilischen Feldfruechte and a tariff of five percent of the value
of all the harbors sizilischen in and trade Articles by Rome paid.

The islanders were nothing new in these charges. The charges, which the
Carthaginian Republic and the Persian great king came to pay, that
tithes were substantially similar, and also in Greece was such a
taxation traditionally oriental pattern of tyranny and often linked
with the hegemony been.

The Sicilians had a long in this way either by the Tenth Syracuse
Carthage or after a long and paid the Hafenzoelle not for its
own account. "We have," says Cicero, "the sizilischen also in our
communities and our clients to protect, that when the rights were,
according to what they previously had lived, and under the same
conditions of the Roman municipality obeyed, as they have their own
Men had obeyed. " It is cheap, not to forget, but continue in the
wrong is also wrong to do so. Not for the subjects of which only the
Lord changed, but probably for their new masters was the abandoning
of the well show how generous the Roman principle of government,
from the subjects only help the war and never take the same
Geldentschaedigung to think of ominous significance, all mitigate
against the approach and manner of collection and all exceptions
in the individual disappeared.

Such exceptions, however, were repeatedly made. Messana came
almost to the Confederation of Togamaenner and terminated as the Greek
cities in Italy's contingent to the Roman fleet. A number of other
cities was not the entrance to the Italian Defense cooperative, but
excluding other benefits free of tax and tithe allowed, so that its
position in financial terms, even cheaper than the of the Italian
municipalities.

These were Egesta and Halikyae the first among the cities of Sicily
to the Roman Carthaginian Buendnis were converted; Kentoripa in
eastern inland, which was destined to syrakusanische area in close
proximity to monitor ^ 5; in the north Halaesa, the first by the
free Greek cities of the Romans had attached itself, and especially
Panormos, formerly the capital of Sicily and Carthaginian now
determined that to be the Roman.

The old principle of its policy, the communities in carefully staged
various law classes to be subdivided, so the Romans turned on to
Sicily, but on average were sizilischen and Sardinian municipalities
bundesgenoessischen not, but in the apparent ratio of taxable
Untertaenigkeit. --- ------------------------------------------------
^ 4 That goes Hieron comments (Liv. 22, 37): it was he aware that
the Romans are no other infantry and cavalry as a Roman or Latin
underserved and "foreigners" just below the maximum of light used.
^ 5 The shows have a look at the map, but also the strange requirement
that it Kentoripinern remained exceptionally permitted to throughout
Sicily anzukaufen.

They needed as watchdogs of the Roman freest movement. Way seems
Kentoripa also among the first cities to Rome, converted to have been
(Diod. 1, 23 p. 501). ------------------------- -------------------------
However, this was a profound contrast between the assigned and the
tax-or at least not zuzugpflichtigen municipalities with the contrast
between Italy and the provinces are not necessarily in law together.

It could also overseas communities of the Italian Confederation also
approximately how the Mamertiner with the Italic Sabellern much focused
on a line, and even the reestablishment of law was Latin communities
in Sicily and Sardinia for something so little in the way as in the
countryside beyond the Apennines .

There were also terrestrial communities deprived of the right weapons
and tributaer, as this is for individual districts on Celtic Po
probably already had, and later in a rather extensive scale was
introduced.

       With the matter weighed on the zuzugpflichtigen communities also
decided on the mainland as the tax on the islands, and while neither
the civilized Hellenic Sicily nor Sardinia roemischerseits Italic
settlements were intended, it stands in the Roman government no
doubt already noted, the barbaric land between the Apennines and
the Alps is not merely to subjugate, but also how the conquest of
advanced, new communities there Italic Italic origin and constitute
law.

So the overseas possessions were not merely subjects of a country but
they were also determined for all the future is to remain, while the
newly demarcated district legal office of the consuls or, which is
the same, the Roman terrestrial area should be a new and more
Italy, that of the Alps to the Ionian Sea. Initially it was certainly
much more than Italy with the geographical concept of the political
Italic Confederation not quite together, and was sometimes more,
sometimes close. But even now considered the entire room up to the
Alpine border as a Italia, which means as a current or future field
of Togatraeger and put, similar to how it happened in North America
and happens to cross the border temporarily geographically, in order
to continue with the colonization gradually vorschreitenden also
politically those plans ^ 6 ------------------- ------------------------
^ 6 This contrast between Italy than the mainland, or the Roman
consular district and one overseas territory or the other, appears
already Praetorensprengeln in the sixth century in multiple
applications.

The religious requirement that some priests are not permitted to leave
Rome (Max Val 1, 1, 2), was interpreted as meaning that they are not
allowed to be, the sea crossing (Liv. ep. 19, 36, 51, Tac. ann. 3,
58, 71; Cic. Phil. 11, 8, 18; see Liv. 28, 38, 44; ep. 59). Some
here still belongs to the interpretation, which the old rule that
only the Consul "on Roman soil" the dictator may appoint, in the year
544 is carried forward: the Roman soil quite understand that in Italy
(Liv. 27, 5). The establishment of the Celtic country between the Alps
and the Apennines on its own, different from the consular and a special
permanent top officials under Sprengel belongs only to Sulla. It
is of course no one on the other hand, argue that even in the
sixth century, very often, or Gallia Ariminum as "District" (provincia)
is usually one of the consuls called. Province is well known in the
older language is not what it later alone means a geographically
defined, a permanent top officials imputed Sprengel, but for the
individual initially by Consul Convention with his colleagues, with
the participation of the Senate established competence, and in this
sense are often individual norditalische landscapes or even northern
Italy about individual consuls all over the province paid.
------------------------------------ -------- In the Adriatic Sea,
at whose entrance the important and long-prepared Brundisium colony
finally even during the war with Carthage was founded (510 244),
Rome's supremacy was decided from the outset.

Westsee had in Rome must eliminate rivals in the east have caused
the Hellenic discord that all states on the Greek peninsula remained,
or were powerless. The most significant of that, the Macedonian, was
under the influence of Egypt from the upper Adriatic Sea through Aetoler
as from the Peloponnese by Achaeer been squeezed and barely able to
use the northern border against the barbarians to protect.

How the Romans were anxious, Macedonia and its natural allies, the Syrian
king, niederzuhalten, and how closely connected they are to be directed
at Egyptian policy, the strangest offer of proof to that following
the end of the war with Carthage, the Kingdom Ptolemaeos III.

Euergetes made him in to support the war, because he Berenike
assassination against Seleukos Kallinikos II of Syria (reg. 507-529
247-225) and led to the Makedonien probably for the last party had
taken.

Overall, the main relations of Rome to the Hellenistic states close,
but also negotiated with Syria and the Senate already related in
the ebengenannten Seleukos for deriving related Ilier.

A direct interference in the affairs of the eastern powers, it took
nothing.

The achaeische Confederation, the efflorescence was broken by the
hidebound Coteriepolitik of Aratos the aetolische Landsknecht
Republic, the decayed Makedonierreich considered himself one another
down, and overseas countries profit then evaded you in Rome rather
than that it was looking for.

When the Akarnanen to claim that they alone among all non-Greeks had
participated in the destruction Ilion, the descendants of Aeneas asked
for help against the Aetoler, tried by the Senate in a
diplomatic use alone as the one after that Aetoler their way
drafted, that is outrageous answer given, was the antiquarian
interests of the Roman gentlemen but not so far to get a war started
by which the Macedonians from their mortal enemy would have exempted
(by 515 239).

(They were a small party: naturally, the great
majority of the regiment are what the identity-discs call "Pres" or
"R.C.")

"Sorry to be late, sir," he said to the senior officer, saluting.
"This is my sixth sh--service to-day, and I have come seven miles for
it."

He mopped his brow cheerfully; and having produced innumerable
hymn-books from a saddle-bag and set his congregation in array, read
them the service, in a particularly pleasing and well-modulated voice.
After that he preached a modest and manly little sermon, containing
references which carried Bobby Little, for one, back across the
Channel to other scenes and other company. After the sermon came a
hymn, sung with great vigour. Tommy loves singing hymns--when he
happens to know and like the tune.

"I know you chaps like hymns," said the padre, when they had finished.
"Let's have another before you go. What do you want?"

A most unlikely-looking person suggested "Abide with Me." When it was
over, and the party, standing as rigid as their own rifles, had
sung "God Save the King," the preacher announced, awkwardly--almost
apologetically--

"If any of you would like to--er--communicate, I shall be very glad.
May not have another opportunity for some time, you know. I think over
there"--he indicated a quiet corner of the wood, not far from the
little cemetery--"would be a good place."

He pronounced the benediction, and then, after further recurrence to
his saddle-bag, retired to his improvised sanctuary. Here, with a
ration-box for altar, and strands of barbed wire for choir-stalls, he
made his simple preparations.

Half a dozen of the men, and all the officers, followed him. That was
just a week ago.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Wagstaffe broke the silence at last.

"It's a rotten business, war," he said pensively--"when you come to
think of it. Hallo, there goes the first star-shell! Come along,
Bobby!"

Dusk had fallen. From the German trenches a thin luminous thread
stole up into the darkening sky, leaned over, drooped, and burst
into dazzling brilliance over the British parapet. Simultaneously a
desultory rifle fire crackled down the lines. The night's work had
begun.


XIX

THE TRIVIAL ROUND


We have been occupying trenches, off and on, for a matter of two
months, and have settled down to an unexhilarating but salutary
routine. Each dawn we "stand to arms," and peer morosely over the
parapet, watching the grey grass turn slowly to green, while snipers'
bullets buzz over our heads. Each forenoon we cleanse our dew-rusted
weapons, and build up with sandbags what the persevering Teuton
has thrown down. Each afternoon we creep unostentatiously into
subterranean burrows, while our respective gunners, from a safe
position in the rear, indulge in what they humorously describe as "an
artillery duel." The humour arises from the fact that they fire, not
at one another, but at us. It is as if two big boys, having declared
a vendetta, were to assuage their hatred and satisfy their honour by
going out every afternoon and throwing stones at one another's little
brothers. Each evening we go on sentry duty; or go out with patrols,
or working parties, or ration parties. Our losses in killed and
wounded are not heavy, but they are regular. We would not grudge the
lives thus spent if only we could advance, even a little. But there is
nothing doing. Sometimes a trench is rushed here, or recaptured there,
but the net result is--stalemate.

The campaign upon which we find ourselves at present embarked offers
few opportunities for brilliancy. One wonders how Napoleon would have
handled it. His favourite device, we remember, was to dash rapidly
about the chessboard, insert himself between two hostile armies, and
defeat them severally. But how can you insert yourself between two
armies when you are faced by only one army--an army stretching from
Ostend to the Alps?

One of the first elements of successful strategy is surprise. In the
old days, a general of genius could outflank his foe by a forced
march, or lay some ingenious trap or ambush. But how can you outflank
a foe who has no flanks? How can you lay an ambush for the modern
Intelligence Department, with its aeroplane reconnaissance and
telephonic nervous system? Do you mass half a million men at a chosen
point in the enemy's line? Straightway the enemy knows all about it,
and does likewise. You are due to this thing to me come to thee
with me to advise. The honors you without a doubt. But there is
nothing, it's worse than nothing to me now if you do not tell the
whole truth. I do not want to stir up things that do not belong here.
Since the death of our mother are expensive some ugly things
proceeded. Perhaps also the time for them and maybe they come sooner
than we think.

In the business I miss some things, it will give me maybe not hidden
- now I will not make the assumption that it is hidden from me - I'm
no longer strong enough, my memory is after, I did not look for all the
many things.

The first is the flow of nature, and secondly, I was the death
of our mother a lot more depressed than you. - But because we're
in this thing, in this letter, so I ask you, George, I'm not mistaken.
It is a trifle, it is not worth the breath, so I'm not mistaken. Do you
really this friend in Petersburg?

"George was embarrassed to. "Let my friends. One thousand friends
I did not replace my father. Do you know what I think? Do not you
already have enough. But the age demands its rights. You're in my
business is essential that you know so very well, but if the business
should threaten your health, nor do I stop it tomorrow, forever. I
do not. We have given a different way of life for you to import. But
by reason.
For he is above all things an enthusiast in
his profession. Last night he volunteered to go out and "listen" for a
suspected mine some fifty yards from the German trenches. He set out
as soon as darkness fell, taking with him a biscuit-tin full of water.
A circular from Headquarters--one of those circulars which no one but
Othello would have treated with proper reverence--had suggested this
device. The idea was that, since liquids convey sound better than air,
the listener should place his tin of water on the ground, lie down
beside it, immerse one ear therein, and so draw secrets from the
earth. Othello failed to locate the mine, but kept his head in the
biscuit-tin long enough to contract a severe attack of earache.

But he is not discouraged. At present he is meditating a design for
painting himself grass-green and climbing a tree--thence to take a
comprehensive and unobserved survey of the enemy's dispositions. He
will do it, too, if he gets a chance!

The machine-gunners, also, contrive to chase monotony by methods
of their own. Listen to Ayling, concocting his diurnal scheme
of frightfulness with a colleague. Unrolled upon his knee is a
large-scale map.

"I think we might touch up those cross-roads to-night," he says,
laying the point of his dividers upon a spot situated some hundreds of
yards in rear of the German trenches.

"I expect they'll have lots of transport there about ration-time--eh?"

"Sound scheme," assents his coadjutor, a bloodthirsty stripling named
Ainslie. "Got the bearings?"

"Hand me that protractor. Seventy-one, nineteen, true. That
comes to"--Ayling performs a mental calculation--"almost exactly
eighty-five, magnetic. We'll go out about nine, with two guns, to the
corner of this dry ditch here--the range is two thousand five hundred,
exactly"--

"Our lightning calculator!" murmurs his admiring colleague. "No
elastic up the sleeve, or anything! All done by simple ledger-de-mang?
Proceed!"

--"And loose off a belt or two. What say?"

"Application forwarded, and strongly recommended," announced Ainslie.
He examined the map. "Cross-roads--eh? That means at least one
estaminet. One estaminet, with Bosches inside, complete! Think of our
little bullets all popping in through the open door, five hundred a
minute! Think of the rush to crawl under the counter! It might be a
Headquarters? We might get Von Kluck or Rupy of Bavaria, splitting
a half litre together. We shall earn Military Crosses over this, my
boy," concluded the imaginative youth. "Wow, wow!"

"The worst of indirect fire," mused the less gifted Ayling, "is that
you never can tell whether you have hit your target or not. In fact,
you can't even tell whether there was a target there to hit."

"Never mind; we'll chance it," replied Ainslie. "And if the Bosche
artillery suddenly wakes up and begins retaliating on the wrong spot
with whizz-bangs--well, we shall know we've tickled up _somebody_,
anyhow! Nine o'clock, you say?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Here, again, is a bombing party, prepared to steal out under cover of
night. They are in charge of one Simson, recently promoted to Captain,
supported by that hoary fire-eater, Sergeant Carfrae. The party
numbers seven all told, the only other member thereof with whom we are
personally acquainted being Lance-Corporal M'Snape, the ex-Boy Scout.
Every man wears a broad canvas belt full of pockets: each pocket
contains a bomb.

Simson briefly outlines the situation. Our fire-trench here runs round
the angle of an orchard, which brings it uncomfortably close to the
Germans. The Germans are quite as uncomfortable about the fact as we
are--some of us are rather inclined to overlook this important feature
of the case--and they have run a sap out towards the nearest point of
the Orchard Trench (so our aeroplane observers report), in order to
supervise our movements more closely.

"It may only be a listening-post," explains Simson to his bombers,
"with one or two men in it. On the other hand, they may be collecting
a party to rush us. There are some big shell-craters there, and they
may be using one of them as a saphead. Anyhow, our orders are to go
out to-night and see. If we find the sap, with any Germans in it, we
are to bomb them out of it, and break up the sap as far as possible.
Advance, and follow me."

The party steals out. The night is very still, and a young and
inexperienced moon is making a somewhat premature appearance
behind the Bosche trenches. The ground is covered with weedy
grass--disappointed hay--which makes silent progress a fairly simple
matter. The bombers move forward in extended order searching for the
saphead. Simson, in the centre, pauses occasionally to listen, and his
well-drilled line pauses with him. Sergeant Carfrae calls stertorously
upon the left. Out on the right is young M'Snape, tingling.

Thalers) came to stand. Antiochos himself after his dissolute nature
verschmerzte soon the loss of half his kingdom, it looks like him,
that he had the Romans in the decline of the effort, a very big
kingdom to rule, alleged to be grateful.

But Asia was the day. magnesia from the large number of states
deleted, and probably never is a great power so swiftly, so
completely and so shamefully used as the Seleukidenreich gone under
this Antiochus the Great. He himself was soon afterwards (567 187) in
Elymais above the Persian Gulf during the plunder of Beltempels,
which he treasures his empty treasury to fill came from the fierce
inhabitants were slain.

The Roman government had, after the victory erfochten was
the affairs of Asia Minor and Greece in order. Should the Roman dominion
solid foundation established, it suffices to no that Antiochos of
supremacy in Western Asia had entsagt. The political relationships
daselbst have been outlined above. The Greek Freistaedte and on the
Ionian coast and the Aeolian substantially similar pergamenische
kingdom, however, were the natural Traeger of the new Roman upper
violence that occurred here too much as a patron of the originating
related Hellenes. But the inner Dynastes in Asia Minor and the North
coast of the Black Sea was the king of Asia a long barely obeyed
seriously, and the treaty with Antiochus alone gave the Romans no
violence over the inland.

There was a certain limit unabweislich to pull within which the Roman
influence continue to be authoritative. It fell mainly into the weight
ratio of Asian to the Hellenes a century since daselbst based Celts.
They had the Asia Minor Landscapes formally distributed among themselves
and one each of the three Gaue raised in his Brandschatzungsgebiet the
fixed tribute. Well, the residents of Pergamum under the strong
leadership of a hereditary duchy was to head to the undignified
Yoke discarded, and the beautiful Nachbluete of Hellenistic art,
which recently re-emerged on earth, are grown from these last, sense
of national citizen-driven Hellenistic wars.

But it was a powerful counter-strike, not a critical success, again and
again had the Pergamon their urban peace against the incursions
of the savage hordes from the eastern mountains, with the weapons
to defend, and the great majority of other Griechenstaedte is
probably in the old dependence remained ^ 4 If Rome's patronage
over the Hellenes in Asia more than one name should be, so this had
to pay tribute to their new clients a goal set, and as the Roman
policy of self-possession and the related standing occupation of
the country at the moment in Asia, much more than on the Greek-Macedonian
peninsula declined, so did in fact have no other choice than to the
border, which Rome's power field should be inserted, also in Rome
to bear arms and the Kleinasiaten about anything, but especially
in the new Keltengauen Upper glory with the fact only.
---------------------------------- ^ 4 from the above-mentioned
decree of Lampsakos involves almost certainly indicate that the
Lampsakener in Massalioten not just use requested in Rome, but also
use in the Tolistoagiern (so hot otherwise Tolistoboger called Celts
in this document and in the pergamenischen inscription CIG 3536,
the most ancient monuments, which they mention) .

Then probably the Lampsakener still around the time of Philip Pisch
this war zinsbar been Gau (cf. Liv. 38, 16). ------------------------
--------- This is the new Roman Oberfeld Mr. Gnaeus Manlius Volso
done the Lucius Scipio replaced in Asia Minor.

He is so heavy accusation has been made, the new twist of politics
in the Senate unwilling men missing in the war to end as the
reason. The first censure against this particular train will be charged,
is not justified, the same was much more after the Roman state
in the Hellenistic ratio, as it happened, had interfered, a necessary
consequence of this policy.

Whether the Hellenic Rome total patronage for the right, can certainly
be doubted, but from the point of view, the Flamininus and he guided
the majority had now taken, was the defeat of the Galatians, in
fact, a duty of prudence as of honor.

Surpassing the allegation is substantiated, that it is time for a right
reason to oppose the war lacked the same, because actually in league
with Antiochus, they had not confessed, but it only after their
custom in their country Mietstruppen can recruit.

But on the other hand, was crucial to the weight that the broadcast of
a Roman troops in Asia power of the Roman residents only under
very extraordinary ratio angesonnen could be and, once such an
expedition was necessary, all we talked about, they immediately and
with the once in Asia are winning armies execute.

It was, without doubt under the influence of the Flamininus and its
sympathizers in the Senate, in spring 565 (189) of the campaign
in the interior of Asia Minor undertaken.

The consul fell from Ephesus to the cities and burning at the top
Fuersten meanders and Pamphylia without Mass. and turned to the north
against the Celts. The western canton of the Tolistoager, had come
to Mount Olympos, the middle, the Tectosagen on the mountain Magaba
with goods and chattels retreat in the hope that they are here would
be able to defend until the winter the strangers to the deduction
constraints.

The floors of Roman slingers and protect against the unknown so that
the Celts so often gave rash, almost like in recent times, the rifle
fire against the savage peoples, forcing the higher, and the Celts
were subject in one of those battles, as they often do early and
late in the Po and on the Seine have been supplied, but this seems
so strange as the whole appearance of the northern tribes under the
Greek and Phrygian nations.

The number of slain, and even more so by the prisoner was in both
places tremendously.

What is left, save himself on the Halys to the third Celtic Gau of
Trocmer what the consul is not attacked.

This river was the limit at which the then head of the Roman policy,
had decided to stop. Phrygia, Bithynien, Paphlagonien should be
dependent of Rome, and the further east you left lying landscapes
themselves. The regulation of Asia Minor ratio was determined by
the peace with Antiochus (565 189), partly by fixing a Roman
Commission, which the Consul Volso Board.

Apart from the position of hostages, including his younger son the
same name, and one after the Mass of the treasures of Asia
calculated Kriegskontribution of 15000 euboeischen talent (25
«million thalers), the fifth part thereof immediately and the
remainder in twelve Jahreszielern to pay was Antiochus imposed the
transfer of its entire European countries and in Asia Minor, and
all his possessions Rechtsansprueche north of the Taurus Mountains
and west of the mouth of the Kestros between Aspendos and Perge in
Pamphylia, so that it in front nothing remained Asia as the eastern
Pamphylia and Cilicia.

With the patronage over the Near Eastern kingdoms and
dominions, it was of course gone. Asia, or, as the empire of the
Seleucids from then on usually adequate and is called, Syria lost
the right to appeal against the Western countries go to war attack
and defense in the event of a war by them the peace the country to
win the right to the sea west of the Kalykadnosmuendung in Cilicia
with warships to traffic, except for envoys, tribute or hostages
to bring about even more than ten Deckschiffe to hold, except in
the case of a defensive war, and war elephants to tame, finally the
right, in the western states to organize ads, or political refugees
outliers and in fact is incorporated.

The warships, over which he had the number, the elephants and
political refugees who were with him is, he delivered from. To
compensate, the great king the title of a friend of the community
of Roman citizens.

The State hereby Syria was on land and at sea completely ousted
from the West and for ever, it is typical for the force and disjointed
organization of Seleukidenreichs that the same among all of Rome
overcome major states after the first never overcome a second
decision sought by the weapons.

The two of Armenia, at least so far named after Asian Satrapi,
turned, if not exactly in accordance with the Roman peace treaty,
but under his influence into independent kingdoms and their holders
Artaxias and Zariadris were founders of new dynasties.

Ariarathes Koenig Cappadocia came from, because outside of his country
by the Romans designated limit their clientele was, with a fine of 600
talents (1 Mill Thalers) thereof, that are still on the intercession
of his son Eumenes to half was reduced. Prusias Koenig of Bithynien
kept its territory, as it was, just as the Celts, but had to vow not
also armed pile on the border to send and the disgraceful Tribute
to the Cities of Asia Minor had an end.

The Asian Greeks lacked not, however, generally perceived and sustained
relief with golden rings and the transcendental praises to repay.
In the Near East was the possession of regulation is not without
difficulty, especially since the dynastic politics of Eumenes with
the Greek Hansaallee collided at last succeeded in , in the following
types with ease.

All Greek cities, on the day of the Battle of Magnesia free and
joined the Romans, were their freedom and they all confirmed with
the exception of the date of interest-bearing Eumenes tribute paid
to the various Dynastes which he for the future.

Thus, including the cities Dardanos free and Ilion, the old
tribe of fellow Roemer of Aeneas' time ago, also Kyme, Smyrna, Klazomenae,
Erythrae, Chios, Colophon, Miletos and other altberuehmte name. Phokaea,
against the surrender of the Roman fleet had been sacked soldiers,
was to substitute for it, although it does not fall under the category
referred to in the contract was, exceptionally, also marks his
return and freedom.

Most of the Greek cities of Asia-Hansa saw the field expansions and
other benefits received. The best course Rhodes was considered, with
the exclusion of Lycia Telmissos and the greater part of Caria
south of meanders received; also guaranteed Antiochos in his rich
Rhodiern to their property and their claims and previously enjoyed
duty-free.

Everything else, so far the largest share of the spoils fell to the
Attalides whose fidelity to ancient Rome and of Eumenes in the wars
passed tribulation and his personal merit to the failure of the decisive
Battle of Rome rewarded as promised, as never a king's allies was
worthwhile. Eumenes received in Europe Chersonesos with Lysimacheia;
in Asia Myší except that he already owned, the provinces of Phrygia
on the Hellespont, with Lydia Ephesos and Sardis, the northern strip
of Caria to meander with Tralles and magnesia, Grossphrygien and
Lykaonien together with a piece of of Cilicia, the milysche landscape
between Phrygia and Lycia as a port and resort on the southern
seaside city of Lycian Telmissos; about Pamphylia was later between
Eumenes and Antiochus question the extent to which it or beyond the
desired limit and so is this or that undertaking.

In addition, he received the patronage and the legal interest rate
on those Greek cities that do not have unlimited freedom received,
but was also determined that the cities of their letters to remain
free and not the tax should be increased. It also had
Antiochos of being made, the 350 talents (600000 thalers), the
father he had become guilty of Attalos, the Eumenes to pay him well
with 127 talents (218000 thalers) for the residues grain supplies
as a result.

Finally got Eumenes the royal forests and the elephants of Antiochus
delivered, but not the warships, which were burned, and a naval power,
the Romans had not beside themselves. This was the realm of Attalides
in Eastern Europe and Asia that has become what Numidien in Africa
was a dependent of Rome, powerful state with absolute constitution,
determined and capable, both in Syria Makedonien as barriers to keep
non-other than in exceptional cases Roman support to require.

With this policy by the Roman creation had been offered by the national
Republican and offered sympathy and vanity liberation of the Asian
Greeks united as far as possible. To the affairs of the Far East
beyond the Halys Tauro and it was determined to not to trouble, it
shows very clearly the conditions of peace with Antiochus, and yet
resolutely certain refusal of the Senate, the city in Cilicia Soloi
by Rhodiern for they sought to grant freedom.

Similarly, we remained faithful to the established principle that no
direct overseas properties to buy. After the Roman fleet still an
expedition to Crete, and the generosity of there sold into slavery
enforced Roemer had left the fleet and Landheer After Summer 566
(188) Asia, with the Landheer, which again went through Thrace,
through the negligence of the commander underway by the incursions
of the savages had much to suffer. The Romans brought nothing
home from the East as an honor and gold, which at this time are
already both in the practical form of thanks address, the golden
wreath, used together.

Also the european Greece was of this Asian war were shocked and required
new regulations. The Aetoler who still had not learned to retreat
into their invalidity finding was described in the spring 564 (190)
with Scipio concluded ceasefire not only by their Corsairs
kephallenischen traffic between Italy and Greece, difficult and
uncertain, but perhaps more During the armistice, misled by false
news about the state of affairs in Asia, the madness perpetrated
the Amynander back on his throne to athamanischen and Philippos in
this occupied aetolischen and Thessaly border herumzuschlagen
countryside, with the multiple disadvantages suffered Koenig .

It is understood that hereafter Rome asking for their peace with the
landing of the consul Marcus Fulvius Nobilior replied. He arrived in
spring 565 (189) in the legions, and, after a siege of fifteen days
for the crew honorable capitulation Ambrakia, while the Macedonians,
the Illyria, which Epeiroten which Akarnanen and Achaeer about
Aetoler herfielen.

From actual resistance could not be said that, at the repeated
requests of the peace Aetoler were the Romans because of wars and
granted conditions which such a pathetic and treacherous enemies
gegenueber must be called cheap.

Aetoler lost all the cities and territories in the hands of their
enemies were, namely Ambrakia, which is a result of Marcus Fulvius
spun intrigue in Rome later released and became self employed,
also Oinia, the Akarnanen was well Kephallenia they came from. They
lost the right to war and peace, and were close in this regard by
the foreign relations of Rome abhaengig; finally they paid a high
sum of money.

Kephallenia sat down at his own hand against this contract and is only
as Marcus Fulvius landed on the island, so the residents of Same,
the feared, probably from their city by a Roman colony expels to
be dropped after the first submission again and held a four-month
siege in what the city and finally put all the inhabitants into
slavery were sold.

So they sent down the Strand--that's where the
Variety agents foregather, I believe--what you call _entrepreneurs_,
Achille--and booked this troupe, complete, for the run of the War.
They did the thing in style; spared no expense; and got a comic
newspaper proprietor to write the troupe up, and themselves down.
The scheme worked beautifully--what you would call a _succès fou_,
Achille."

"I am desolated, my good Ouagstaffe," observed Petitpois after a
pregnant silence; "but I cannot believe all you say."

"I _may_ be wrong," admitted Wagstaffe handsomely, "but that's my
reading of the situation. At any rate, Achille, you will admit that my
theory squares with the known facts of the case."

Petitpois bowed politely.

"Perhaps it is I who am wrong, my dear Ouagger. There is such a
difference of point of view between your politics and ours."

The deep voice of Captain Blaikie broke in.

"If Lancashire," he said grimly, "were occupied by a German army, as
the Lille district is to-day, I fancy there would be a considerable
levelling up of political points of view all round. No limelight for a
comic opposition then, Achille, old son!"


IV

Besides receiving letters, we write them. And this brings us to that
mysterious and impalpable despot, the Censor.

There is not much mystery about him really. Like a good many other
highly placed individuals, he deputes as much of his work as possible
to some one else--in this case that long-suffering maid-of-all-work,
the company officer. Let us track Bobby Little to his dug-out, during
one of those numerous periods of enforced retirement which occur
between the hours of three and six, "Pip Emma"--as our friends the
"buzzers" call the afternoon. On the floor of this retreat (which
looks like a dog-kennel and smells like a vault) he finds a small heap
of letters, deposited there for purposes of what the platoon-sergeant
calls "censure." These have to be read (which is bad); licked up
(which is far worse); signed on the outside by the officer, and
forwarded to Headquarters. Here they are stamped with the familiar
red triangle and forwarded to the Base, where they are supposed to be
scrutinised by the real Censor--i.e., the gentleman who is paid for
the job--and are finally despatched to their destination.

Bobby, drawing his legs well inside the kennel, out of the way of
stray shrapnel bullets, begins his task.

The heap resolves itself into three parts. First come the post-cards,
which give no trouble, as their secrets are written plain for all to
see. There are half a dozen or so of the British Army official issue,
which are designed for the benefit of those who lack the epistolatory
gift--what would a woman say if you offered such things to her?--and
bear upon the back the following printed statements:--

  _I am quite well.

  I have been admitted to hospital.

  I am sick   } {and am going on well.
       wounded} {and hope to be discharged soon.

  I have received your {letter,   dated ...
                       {telegram,   "
                       {parcel,     "

  Letter follows at first opportunity.

  I have received no letter from you {lately.
                                     {for a long time._

(The gentleman who designed this postcard must have been a descendant
of Sydney Smith. You remember that great man's criticism of the Books
of Euclid? He preferred the Second Book, on the ground that it was
more "impassioned" than the others!)

All the sender of this impassioned missive has to do is to delete such
clauses as strike him as untruthful or over-demonstrative, and sign
his name. He is not allowed to add any comments of his own. On this
occasion, however, one indignant gentleman has pencilled the ironical
phrase, "I don't think!" opposite the line which acknowledges the
receipt of a parcel. Bobby lays this aside, to be returned to the
sender.

Then come some French picture post-cards. Most of these present
soldiers--soldiers posing, soldiers exchanging international
handgrips, soldiers grouped round a massive and _décolletée_ lady in
flowing robes, and declaring that _La patrie sera libre!_ Underneath
this last, Private Ogg has written: "Dear Lizzie,--I hope this finds
you well as it leaves me so. I send you a French p.c. The writing
means long live the Queen of France."

The next heap consists of letters in official-looking green envelopes.
These are already sealed up, and the sender has signed the following
attestation, printed on the flap: _I certify on my honour that the
contents of this envelope refer to nothing but private and family
matters._ Setting aside a rather bulky epistle addressed to The Editor
of a popular London weekly, which advertises a circulation of over a
million copies--a singularly unsuitable recipient for correspondence
of a private and family nature--Bobby turns to the third heap, and
sets to work upon his daily task of detecting items of information,
"which if intercepted or published might prove of value to the enemy."

It is not a pleasant task to pry into another person's correspondence,
but Bobby's scruples are considerably abated by the consciousness that
on this occasion he is doing so with the writer's full knowledge.
Consequently it is a clear case of _caveat scriptor_. Not that Bobby's
flock show any embarrassment at the prospect of his scrutiny. Most of
them write with the utmost frankness, whether they are conducting a
love affair, or are involved in a domestic broil of the most personal
nature. In fact, they seem rather to enjoy having an official
audience. Others cheerfully avail themselves of this opportunity of
conveying advice or reproof to those above them, by means of what the
Royal Artillery call "indirect fire." Private Dunshie remarks: "We
have been getting no pay these three weeks, but I doubt the officer
will know what has become of the money." It is the firm conviction
of every private soldier in "K(1)" that all fines and deductions go
straight into the pocket of the officer who levies them. Private Hogg,
always an optimist, opines: "The officers should know better how to
treat us now, for they all get a read of our letters."

But, as recorded above, the outstanding feature of this correspondence
is an engaging frankness. For instance, Private Cosh, who under an
undemonstrative, not to say wooden, exterior evidently conceals a
heart as inflammable as flannelette, is conducting single-handed no
less than four parallel love affairs. One lady resides in his native
Coatbridge, the second is in service in South Kensington, the third
serves in a shop in Kelvinside, and the fourth moth appears to have
been attracted to this most unlikely candle during our sojourn in
winter billets in Hampshire. Cosh writes to them all most ardently
every week--sometimes oftener--and Bobby Little, as he ploughs wearily
through repeated demands for photographs, and touching protestations
of lifelong affection, curses the verbose and susceptible youth with
all his heart.

But this mail brings him a gleam of comfort.

_So you tell me, Chrissie_, writes Cosh to the lady in South
Kensington, _that you are engaged to be married on a milkman_....

("Thank heaven!" murmurs Bobby piously.)

_No, no, Chrissie, you need not trouble yourself. It is nothing to
me_.

("He's as sick as muck!" comments Bobby.)

_All I did before was in friendship's name_.

("Liar!")

Bobby, thankfully realising that his daily labours will be materially
lightened by the withdrawal of the fickle Chrissie from the postal
arena, ploughs steadily through the letters. Most of them begin in
accordance with some approved formula, such as--

_It is with the greatest of pleasure that I take up my pen_--

It is invariably a pencil, and a blunt one at that.

Crosses are ubiquitous, and the flap of the envelope usually bears the
mystic formula, S.W.A.K. This apparently means "Sealed with a kiss,"
which, considering that the sealing is done not by the writer but by
the Censor, seems to take a good deal for granted.

Most of the letters acknowledge the receipt of a "parcle"; many give a
guarded summary of the military situation.

_We are not allowed to tell you about the War, but I may say that we
are now in the trenches. We are all in the pink, and not many of the
boys has gotten a dose of lead-poisoning yet._

It is a pity that the names of places have to be left blank. Otherwise
we should get some fine phonetic spelling. Our pronunciation is
founded on no pedantic rules. Armentières is Armentears, Busnes is
Business, Bailleul is Booloo, and Vieille Chapelle is Veal Chapel.

The chief difficulty of the writers appears to be to round off their
letters gracefully. _Having no more to say, I will now draw to a
close_, is the accepted formula. Private Burke, never a tactician,
concludes a most ardent love-letter thus: "_Well, Kate, I will now
close, as I have to write to another of the girls_."

But to Private Mucklewame literary composition presents no
difficulties. Here is a single example of his terse and masterly
style:--

_Dere wife, if you could make the next postal order a trifle stronger,
I might get getting an egg to my tea.--Your loving husband_, JAS.
MUCKLEWAME, _No_. 74077.

But there are features of this multifarious correspondence over which
one has no inclination to smile. There are wistful references to old
days; tender inquiries after bairns and weans; assurances to anxious
wives and mothers that the dangers of modern warfare are merely
nominal. There is an almost entire absence of boasting or lying, and
very little complaining. Because such a beginning, not enough to
feed Antiochos to Europe, decided to Aetoler herself into the hands of
Sparta, and Chalkis Demetrias to and through the profits of the
major cities of the Kingdom for embarkation to be determined.

First we thought Spartas thus to conquer that Aetoler Alexamenos, the
pretending, bundesmaessigen influx to bring men with 1000 shift in
the city, on this occasion the Nabis out of the way rooms and
occupy the city. It happened so, and Nabis was slain at a Heerschau
alone than Aetoler pointed to the city to looters are scattered,
Lakedaemonier found the time to collect and made it to the last man.

The city had to be determined by Philopoemen, in the federal Achaeischen
enter. After the Aetolern this laudable project that is deservedly
not only failed, but just the opposite of success had almost the whole
Peloponnese in the hands of the counterparty to some, was also little
in Chalkis better, by the Roman party daselbst against Aetoler Chalkidiki
exiles and the Roman-minded residents of Eretria on Euboea and
Karystos herbeirief time.

On the other hand was successful, the occupation of Demetrias,
because the magnets, which the city had fallen, not without reason
fear that by the Romans as the Philippos price for help against
Antiochus had promised, it was added that several squadrons aetolischer
tab under the Vorwende, the Eurylochos, recalled the head of the
opposition to Rome, the Foreword to log into the city einzuschleichen
knew.

So did the magnets half voluntarily and half forced to side with
the Aetoler, and it is not lined, so when the Seleucids to argue.

Antiochos decided. The break with Rome, so we also sought to him by the
diplomatic legations of palliative delay, could not longer
avoid. Already in the spring 561 (193) had Flamininus, which
continued, in the Senate in the eastern affairs, the key word
to have the heralds of the King Menippos and Hegesianax pronounced
the Roman ultimatum: either to deviate from Europe and Asia after
his discretion to switch, or Thrace to retain and protect the right
of Roemer about Smyrna, Lampsakos and Alexandreia Troas is like to
be.

The same claims were in Ephesus, the main square and weapons Quartier
des Koenigs state in Asia Minor, in spring 562 (192) again between
Antiochos and the messengers of the Senate Publius Sulpicius and Publius
Villius, have been negotiated, and signed by both sides had been
separated with the conviction that a peaceful agreement was no longer
possible. In Rome, since the war was decided. Even in the summer of
562 (192) appeared a Roman fleet of 30 sailing with 3000 soldiers
on board under Aulus Atilius Serranus Gythion before, where you arrive
the conclusion of the treaty between the Spartans and Achaeern
accelerated the sizilische Italic East Coast and has been heavily
occupied by Landing against any attempts to be secured, for the
autumn was in Greece with a Landheer expected.

Flamininus traveled on behalf of the Senate since the spring 562 (192)
Greece, to the intrigues of the opposite party to thwart and to
the extent possible the evacuation of Greece untimely repair.

For Aetolern it was already so far that the Tagsatzung formally decided
to war against Rome.

On the other hand, allowed the Flamininus, Chalkis for Roemer to
rescue by a crew of 500 Achaeern and 500 Pergamon hineinwarf.

He also made an attempt to Demetrias back to win, and the magnets
have fluctuated.

If some small Asian Cities, which Antiochos before the start of the
great war to defeat itself the still resisted, he was now no longer
with the landing hesitate, he did not wofern the Romans all the
benefits once again wanted to win, they move through their Crews
from Greece two years earlier had given up.

Antiochus, the ships and troops, he just had to hand - there were
only 40 Deckschiffe and 10000 man walking along with 500 horses and
six elephants - and broke from the Thracian Chersonesos to Greece,
where he in the autumn of 562 (192) Pteleon on Pagasaeischen in the
Gulf to the country rose and immediately close Demetrias occupied.

Around the same time landed a Roman army of About 25000 men under
the praetor Marcus Baebius at Apollonia. So was from both sides of the
war started. It was important, how far those comprehensive coalition
against Rome, as their main Antiochos occurred, will be realized.
Turning first to the plan was in Carthage and Italy, the Romans enemies
awake, so was Hannibal as well as all over the court to Ephesus
the lot, its great and magnanimous plans for people and low
kleinkraemerischer bill designed to have. For their design done
nothing but that some patriots Carthaginian compromised; the Carthaginians
remained no other choice than to the Romans necessarily botmaessig to
prove. The cabal wanted not just to Hannibal - the man was too
inconvenient Hofkabale great, and after they all tried abgeschmackte
means, for example, the commander, which the Romans named their
children shrank, with the consent of the envoys to accuse Roman,
succeeded it, the great Antiochus, like all the monarch on his
insignificant self-benefit is much did nothing and so easy to master
was how to deal with the fear to be dominated, to the point to bring
thought, that he is not authorized by the vielgenannten man may be
obscure, but for what the Council was high, the Phoenicians in
future only for minor tasks, and guides to be used, subject, of
course, the Council never followed.

Hannibal revenged herself at the rabble, he accepted every job and every
shiny said .

Cappadocia in Asia was to the great king, while Prusias joined
by Bithynien as always on the side of the mighty.

Koenig Eumenes remained of the old policy of his house faithful to
him only now the right to bear fruit. He had Antiochos' accept not
only persistently refused, but the Romans constantly to push a war from
which he expected the picture of his kingdom. Similarly, the Rhodier
and Byzantier their old allies on. Egypt also joined on the side of
Rome, and offered to supply and support team, which is however not
accepted roemischerseits.

In Europe, especially in the position which Philippos of Macedonia
would take.

Perhaps it would be the right policy for him been, everything happened
and not happened, regardless, to unite with Antiochos; Philippos
alone was usually not determined by such considerations, but by inclination
and aversion, and understandably took his hatred rather the unfaithful
allies, who oppose the common enemy had abandoned in order to get his
share of the loot to collect him in Thrace and an annoying neighbor,
as his defeat of his consideration and was treated honorably. It was
added that by establishing Antiochos abgeschmackter Praetendenten
to the Macedonian crown and through the magnificent funeral of
Macedonian Kynoskephalae bleaching bones of the passionate man
deeply wounded.

He presented his entire army with a sincere zeal for the Roman
disposal. Similarly decided how the first ruler of Greece was the
second, Achaeische Confederation notes on Roman Buendnis; of the
smaller communities were also the Thessaly and Athens, where the
latter one of Flamininus located in the castle achaeische crew is
fairly strong reason to Patriot Party brought.

The Epeiroten gave an effort, it is quite possibly the two parts to make.
so occurred Antiochos' side except the Aetolern and the magnet,
where a part of the neighboring Perrhaeber be followed, only the
weak King of Athamanen, Amynander, which runs through foolish views
on the Macedonian king crown dazzle let the Boeoter, where the
opposition to Rome are still at the helm, and in the Peloponnese
Messinia Eleer and, normally, with the Aetolern against Achaeer to
stand.

That was certainly an edifying since the beginning, and Mr.

Oberfeld titles with full force, the Aetoler the great king decreed,
the damage seemed to be mockery.

It was just as habitually lied to both sides instead of the innumerable
hordes of Asia, the king approached an army, barely half as much
as a normal consular army, and instead of open arms, all the Hellenes
their liberator from Roman yoke forward should stretch, a short
Klephtenhaufen few verliederlichte and some residents of the Koenig
Waffenbruederschaft.

For the moment, admittedly was Antiochus the Romans in Greece actually
pre-empted. Chalkis had crew of the Greek allies of the Romans and was
the first call back, only the fortress was when Antiochus with all
his power davorrueckte, and one Roman department, which came too
late for them to occupy, when Delion of Antiochos destroyed. Evia
so for the Romans was lost. Still made in the winter Antiochos in
connection with the Aetolern and Athamanen an attempt to Thessaly to
win the Thermopylen were also occupied Pherae and other cities
taken, but Appius Claudius arrived with 2000 men of Apollonia up,
Larisa appalled and took this position. Antiochos, tired of the winter
campaign, before it moved into his neighborhood after lustiges Chalkis
back, where it is highly herging and even the king, despite his
fifty years, and his warlike plans with a lovely wedding
Chalkidierin made.

So passed the winter of 562/63 (192/91), without that Antiochus would
have done much more than in Greece and forth herschreiben - He lead
the war with ink and pen, said a Roman officer. By the first spring
563 (191) arrived at the Roman bar Apollonia, which Mr.

  Oberfeld
  Manius Acilius
  
  Glabrio, a
       man
  of low
  origin, but a more efficient, as the enemies of his soldiers feared
captain, the admiral Gaius Livius, among Kriegstribunen Marcus
Porcius Cato, the overcomers of Spain, and Lucius Valerius Flaccus,
the Roman way after it is not spurned, even though former consuls,
again as a simple Kriegstribune in the army to enter.

With that they brought reinforcements of ships and crew, including
Libyan numidische riders and elephants, of Massinissa sent, and
the permission of the Senate, by the ausseritalischen allies up
to 5000 troops to help man, bringing the total number of the Roman
army at approximately 40000 man rose.

The king, who was in the beginning of spring to the Aetolern and
go from there from a futile expedition to Akarnania had made,
turned on the news of Glabrios landing in his headquarters back
to now in all seriousness the campaign to begin.

Solo by his and his deputies were in Asia dilatoriness
unbegreiflicherweise all reinforcements failed him, so he had
nothing as the weak and now exacerbated by disease and desertion
in the dissolute winter quarters decimated army, which he in the
autumn of last year when Pteleon had landed.

Also, the Aetoler, the masses were so immense in the field want to now
because it was their Lord Oberfeld no more than 4000 troops. The
Roman troops had already begun operations in Thessaly, where the
vanguard in conjunction with the Macedonian army of Antiochos the
crews from the cities of Thessaly hinausschlug and the territory
of the occupied Athamanen.

The consul with the main army followed, and the total power of the
Romans gathered in Larisa. Instead of a hurry to return to Asia
before and in all respects superior enemy to clear the field, decided
Antiochos, in which it has occupied Thermopylen to hide and then
the arrival of the great army from Asia to be seen.

He himself stated in the main pass, and ordered the Aetolern the
Hochpfad to fill in what it once was Xerxes succeeded, the Spartans
to handle. With only half of the inflow aetolischen liked it, this
command of the Lord Oberfeld therewith, the other 2000 men accused
in the nearby town Herakleia, where they participated in the battle
took no other part than that they tried the same during the Roman
camp to fall over and auszurauben.

Also positioned on the mountain Aetoler operated Watchkeeping casual
and unwillingly, and their posts on the Kallidromos did surprise
of Cato, and the Asian Phalanx, the Consul meanwhile had attacked
from the front, flew apart, as her Roemer in the mountain hinabeilend
the flank fell.

Since Antiochos and care nothing for the withdrawal had not thought
of, so the army was partly on the battlefield, sometimes
on the run destroyed, that hardly a small pile Demetrias, and the
king himself with 500 men Chalkis reached.

Urgent, after he embarked Ephesos On; Europe was up to the Thracian
possessions he lost and not even the fortresses longer be defended.

Chalkis revealed to the Romans, at Philippos Demetrias, the compensation
for the almost completed by him and then on command of the consul
abandoned conquest of the city of Lamia in Achaia Phthiotis was allowed
to join the Antiochos converted to all communities in the true and
Thessaly aetolischen even the border area, the dolopischen and
aperantischen landscapes, to conquer.

What is in Greece for Antiochos had, hastened his peace making:
the Epeiroten humbly asked for forgiveness for their ambiguous
behavior, which resulted in Boeoter grace and disgrace, and the
Eleer Messini adds, the latter after some reluctance, the Achaeern.

It is fulfilled what Hannibal the king had said previously that the
Greeks, the victors in each subject would be worse, but nothing important.
Even the Aetoler tried after her Herakleia Included Corps after
stubborn resistance to surrender was forced to severely irritated the
Romans to make their peace, however, the stringent demands of the Roman
consul, and a time of Antiochos einlaufende monetary program gave
them the courage, negotiations again and cancel during two whole
months of siege in Naupaktos bearable.

Already, the city was overwhelming, and the storming and capitulation
not far off when Flamininus, continually striving to any Greek
community from the worst consequences of their own foolishness and
the severity of his colleagues to preserve rougher, into Central
and suggested initially ceasefire agreement was fair level.

       This rested throughout Greece, temporarily at least, the weapons.

A war was more serious in Asia before, not so much the enemy, as the
vast distance and the uncertain link with the homeland in a very
dubious light came, but during Antiochus' myopic stubbornness
probably not the war other than by an attack in their own country of
the enemy could be stopped. It was first of all, the lake to insure.
The Roman fleet, which during the campaign in Greece had the task,
the connection between Greece and Asia Minor to interrupt, and it had
succeeded, by the time of the Battle of the Thermopylen a strong
Asian transport up at Andros, was now employs the transition of
the Romans to Asia for the next year to prepare and at first the
enemy's fleet from the Aegean Sea to distribute.

The same was in the port of Kyssus on the southern shore of Chios
against expiring headland Ionia, where they looked to the Roman,
consisting of 75 Roman, 23 pergamenischen and six Carthaginian
Deckschiffen under the leadership of Gaius Livius. The Syrian
Polyxenidas Admiral, a Rhodian emigrated, had only 70 Deckschiffe
oppose alone since the Roman fleet, nor the Rhodian ships and
Polyxenidas expected to notably superior seaworthiness of vessels
and Sidon tyrischen familiar, he took the fight at once. At the beginning
although it was the Asians, one of the Carthaginian vessels to
sink; alone and it came to boarding, conquered the Roman valor, and
only the speed of their oars and sail owe it to opponents that they
are not more than 23 ships lost. Even during the post-setting met the
Roman fleet to 25 vessels and the Rhodian superiority of the
Romans in these waters was now zwiefach decided. The enemy fleet
has behaved calmly in the port of Ephesus, and since it did not
succeed, they become a second battle to determine sparked the Roman
bundesgenoessische fleet for the winter on the Roman warships went
to the port of Kane in the vicinity of Pergamon.

On both sides, it was during the winter for the next campaign try to
make preparations. The Romans looked at the Asia Minor Greeks on
their side to bring: Smyrna, all attempts by the King, the city is to
conquer, had persistently rejected, the Romans adopted with open arms
and even in Samos, Chios, Erythrae, Klazomenae, Phokaea, Kyme and
otherwise the Roman party gained the upper hand.

Antiochos was determined, the Romans probably the transition to
Asia to defend, so he eagerly upgraded to sea and partly by Polyxenidas
the fleet stationed at Ephesus produce and reproduce, in part by
Hannibal in Lycia, Syria Phoenikien and equip a new fleet left, but
also a huge Landheer from all areas of his vast empire in Asia Minor
drove together.

Early in the next few years (564 190), the Roman fleet returned to
its operations.

Gaius Livius made by the Rhodian fleet, this time, 36 strong sailing
time had appeared, the enemy at the height of Ephesus and was
observed with the largest part of the Roman and the pergamenischen
ships after the Hellespont, pursuant to his contract by taking
fortresses daselbst the transition of the Army to prepare the country.

"At least, I hope 'A' Company will."

Then suddenly his reserved, undemonstrative Scottish tongue found
utterance.

"Scotland for Ever!" he cried softly.


XXI

THE BATTLE OF THE SLAG-HEAPS


"Half-past two, and a cold morning, sir."

Thus Bobby Little's servant, rousing his employer from uneasy slumber
under the open sky, in a newly-constructed trench running parallel to
and in rear of the permanent trench line.

Bobby sat up, and peering at his luminous wrist-watch, morosely
acquiesced in his menial's gruesome statement. But he cheered up at
the next intimation.

"Breakfast is ready, sir."

Tea and bacon are always tea and bacon, even in the gross darkness and
mental tension which precede a Big Push. Presently various humped
figures in greatcoats, having gathered in the open ditch which did duty
for Officers' Mess, broke into spasmodic conversation--conversation
rendered even more spasmodic by the almost ceaseless roar of guns. There
were guns all round us--rank upon rank: to judge by the noise, you would
have said tier upon tier as well. Half a mile ahead, upon the face of a
gentle slope, a sequence of flames would spout from the ground, and a
storm of shells go whistling on their way. No sooner had this happened
than there would come a shattering roar from the ground beneath our
feet, and a heavy battery, concealed in a hedge fifty yards to our
front, would launch its contribution. Farther back lay heavier batteries
still, and beyond that batteries so powerful and so distant that one
heard the shell pass before the report arrived. One of these monsters,
coming apparently from infinity and bound for the back of beyond,
lumbered wearily over the heads of "A" Company, partaking of breakfast.

Private Mucklewame paused in the act of raising his canteen to his
lips.

But when he finally wanted to say something because you heard nothing
about it.

For in that moment was with a bang the door opened, and come with a rate
jumped up in the middle of the room of the Otto.

Then he made another big leap on a chair and cried: "Juhe, we have
won, and that Wiseli is redeemed!" Behind him plunged the Miezchen
show ran straight to his friend and said in a release significant
wave against the door: "Now, Andres, you will immediately see leading
to recovery Fest is coming!

"And then came the baker boy come with such a huge stone on his
head that he steckenblieb in the door and could not continue.

But from behind came a strong hand that lifted and pushed and backed
the shaky building, until it is happy in the office and arrived
on the table was set, which is completely covered.

Because Otto and savings Miezchen rifles had sacrificed for the
recovery and the greatest celebration Rahmkuchen can make that a
man could make. Since he would have become too small as a round cake,
so it was square, so that he filled out the oven from front to back
and now covered the whole table. On the ground was now Trine, the
baker behind the boys came was helpful their large basket. There were
a nice roast it, and wine, because the woman had told Colonel,
now, the Andres certainly do not have a morsel eaten.

And perhaps the Wiseli not, and so it was. Now Wiseli also noted that
it was hungry than inviting all the things in front of saw. Now
put the whole society to the table, and we could not predict which one
of all was the happy face. Above all, had the giant cake in the
middle and cut half of the ground, that place you got. Now followed a
joyful feast, because everyone who was sitting at this table, was
his highest wish is fulfilled. As it was late in all the joy and
we finally had to get up from the table, Andres said: "Today you
have a feast prepares. But on Sunday I will also one ready, then
it comes back. And this is the celebration of his debut for my
daughter. "
It is attached
to its parent trench-line by two communicating trenches, which the
British Army, not to be outdone in reverence to the most august of
dynasties, have named Big and Little Willie respectively.

A struggling dawn breaks, bringing with it promise of rain, and the
regiment begins to marshal in the trench called Fountain Alley, along
which it is to wind, snake-like, in the wake of the preceding troops,
until it debouches over the parapet, a full mile away, and extends
into line.

Presently the order is given to move off, and the snake begins to
writhe. Progress is steady, but not exhilarating. We have several
battalions of the Division in front of us (which Bobby Little resents
as a personal affront), but have been assured that we shall see all
the fighting we want. The situation appears to be that owing to the
terrific artillery bombardment the attacking force will meet with
little or no opposition in the German front-line trenches; or second
line, for that matter.

"The whole Division," explains Captain Wagstaffe to Bobby Little,
"should be able to get up into some sort of formation about the Bosche
third line before any real fighting begins; so it does not very much
matter whether we start first or fiftieth in the procession."

The landlocked country, with its impassable valleys and rocky nests,
with his poor but skilled and devious inhabitants mainly served the
Romans as war school to exercise and Resilience of the soldiers as
an officer.

Similar so-called war against the Ligurian and you execute against
the Corsicans and more against the residents of inner Sardinia, which
Raubzuege directed against them by the raids Kuestenstriche vergalten.
In the left is the memory of Tiberius Gracchus expedition against the
Sardinians 577 (177) not so much because it is the province of the
"peace" there, but because he held until the 80,000 islanders were
slain or captured alleged to have slaves and then in such mass
dragged to Rome, saying that it was "like a spottwohlfeil sarde."

In Africa, the Roman policy a significant influence on the one hand,
just as shortsighted as hidebound thinking, re-emergence of the
Carthaginian power and therefore to prevent the unfortunate town
of stocks under pressure and under the sword of Damocles of a
Roman declaration of war to obtain.

Even the definition of the Peace Treaty, that the Carthaginians in
their area to remain undiminished, but their neighbors Massinissa
all those possessions should be guaranteed that he or his Vorweser
within the boundaries obsessed Carthaginian had almost looks as if
they would set it to resolve disputes, not to eliminate, but to
awaken.

The same is true of the Roman peace treaty the Carthaginians obligation,
not against Roman allies go to war so that the wording of the contract
they were not even empowered, from their own undisputed territory,
and the neighbors numidischen distribute.

But as no answer is ever passed back it does not much
matter.

The righteous indignation of Major Kemp, who is situated somewhere
about the middle of the procession, reaches its culminating point
when, with much struggling and pushing and hopeless jamming, a
stretcher carrying a wounded man is borne down the crowded trench on
its way to the rear. The Major delivers himself.

"This is perfectly monstrous! You stretcher-bearers will kill that
poor chap if you try to drag him down here. There is a specially
constructed road to the dressing-station over there--Bart's Alley, it
is called. We cannot have up-and-down traffic jumbled together like
this. For heaven's sake, Waddell, pass up word to the C.O. that it is
mistaken kindness to allow these fellows down here. He _must_ send
them back."

Waddell volunteers to climb out of the trench and go forward with a
message. But this the Major will not allow. "Your platoon will require
a leader presently," he mentions. "We'll try the effect of a note."

The note is passed up, and anon an answer comes back to the effect
that no wounded have been allowed down from the head of the column.
They must be getting in by a sidetrack somewhere. The Major groans,
but can do nothing.

Presently there is a fresh block.

"What is it this time?" inquires the afflicted Kemp. "More wounded, or
are we being photographed?"

The answer races joyously down the line--"Gairman prisoners,
sirr--seeventy of them!"

This time the Major acts with promptness and decision.

"Prisoners? No, they _don't!_ Pass up word from me that the whole
boiling are to be hoisted on to the parapet, with their escort, and
made to walk above ground."

The order goes forward. Presently our hearts are rejoiced by an
exhilarating sight. Across the field through which our trench winds
comes a body of men, running rapidly, encouraged to further fleetness
of foot by desultory shrapnel and stray bullets. They wear grey-green
uniform, and flat, muffin-shaped caps. They have no arms or equipment:
some are slightly wounded. In front of this contingent, running even
more rapidly, are their escort--some dozen brawny Highlanders, armed
to the teeth. But the prisoners exhibit no desire to take advantage of
this unusual order of things. Their one ambition in life appears to be
to put as large a space as possible between themselves and their late
comrades-in-arms, and, if possible, overtake their captors.

Some of them find time to grin, and wave their hands to us. One
addresses the scandalised M'Slattery as "Kamarad!" "No more dis war
for me!" cries another, with unfeigned satisfaction.

After this our progress is more rapid. As we near the front line, the
enemy's shrapnel reaps its harvest even in our deep trench. More than
once we pass a wounded man, hoisted on to the parapet to wait for
first-aid. More than once we step over some poor fellow for whom no
first-aid will avail.

Five minutes later we reach the parapet--that immovable rampart
over which we have peeped so often and so cautiously with our
periscopes--and clamber up a sandbag staircase on to the summit. We
note that our barbed wire has all been cut away, and that another
battalion, already extended into line, is advancing fifty yards ahead
of us. Bullets are pinging through the air, but the guns are once more
silent. Possibly they are altering their position. Dotted about upon
the flat ground before us lie many kilted figures, strangely still, in
uncomfortable attitudes.

A mile or so upon our right we can see two towers--pit-head
towers--standing side by side. They mark the village of Loos, where
another Scottish Division is leading the attack. To the right of Loos
again, for miles and miles and miles, we know that wave upon wave of
impetuous French soldiers is breaking in a tempest over the shattered
German trenches. Indeed, we conjecture that down there, upon our
right, is where the Biggest Push of all is taking place. Our duty is
to get forward if we can, but before everything to engage as many
German troops and guns as possible. Even if we fight for a week or
more, and only hold our own, we shall have done the greater part of
what was required of us. But we hope to do more than that.

Upon our left lies the Hohenzollern. It is silent; so we know that
it has been captured. Beyond that, upon our left front, looms Fosse
Eight, still surmounted by its battered shaft-tower. Right ahead,
peeping over a low ridge, is a church steeple, with a clock-face in
it. That is our objective.

Next moment we have deployed into extended order, and step out, to
play our little part in the great Battle of the Slag-Heaps.


II

Twenty-four hours later, a little group of officers sat in a roomy
dug-out. Major Kemp was there, with his head upon the plank table,
fast asleep. Bobby Little, who had neither eaten nor slept since the
previous dawn, was nibbling chocolate, and shaking as if with ague. He
had gone through a good deal. Waddell sat opposite to him, stolidly
devouring bully-beef out of a tin with his fingers. Ayling reclined
upon the floor, mechanically adjusting a machine-gun lock, which he
had taken from his haversack. Captain Wagstaffe was making cocoa over
a Tommy's Cooker. He looked less the worse for wear than the others,
but could hardly have been described as spruce in appearance. The
whole party were splashed with mud and soaked to the skin, for it had
rained hard during the greater part of the night. They were all sick
for want of food and sleep. Moreover, all had seen unusual sights. It
was Sunday morning.

Presently Wagstaffe completed his culinary arrangements, and poured
out the cocoa into some aluminium cups. He touched Major Kemp on the
shoulder.

"Have some of this, Major," he said.

The burly Kemp roused himself and took the proffered cup gratefully.
Then, looking round, he said--

"Hallo, Ayling! You arrived? Whereabouts in the line were you?"

"I got cut off from the Battalion in the advance up Central Boyau,
sir," said Ayling. "Everybody had disappeared by the time I got the
machine-guns over the parapet. However, knowing the objective, I
pushed on towards the Church Tower."

"How did you enjoy yourself passing Fosse Eight?" inquired Captain
Wagstaffe.

"Thank you, we got a dose of our own medicine--machine-gun fire, in
enfilade. It was beastly."

"We also noticed it," Wagstaffe intimated. "That was where poor
Sinclair got knocked out. What did you do?"

"I signalled to the men to lie flat for a bit, and I did the same. I
did not know that it was possible for a human being to lie as flat as
I lay during that quarter of an hour. But it was no good. The guns
must have been high up on the Fosse: they had excellent command. The
bullets simply greased all round us. I could feel them combing out my
hair, and digging into the ground underneath me."

"What were your sensations, _exactly_?" asked Kemp.

"I felt just as if an invisible person were tickling me," replied
Ayling, with feeling.

"So did I," said Kemp. "Go on."

"I heard one of my men cry out that he was hit," continued Ayling,
"and I came to the conclusion that we would have a better chance as
moving targets than as fixed; so I passed the word to get up and
move forward steadily, in single file. Ultimately we struck a stray
communication-trench, into which we descended with as much dignity as
possible. It led us into some quarries."

"Off our line altogether."

"So I learned from two Companies of an English regiment which were
there, acting as reserve to a Brigade which was scrapping somewhere in
the direction of Hulluch; so I realised that we had worked too far to
the right. We moved out of the quarries and struck over half-left, and
ultimately found the Battalion, a very long way ahead, in what I took
to be a Bosche third-line trench, facing east."

"Right! Fosse Alley," said Kemp. "You remember it on the map?"

"Yes, I do now," said Ayling. "Well, I planted myself on the right
flank of the Battalion with-two guns, and sent Sergeant Killick along
with the other two to the left. However, the success was limited.

The fact that the loyalty of the Italic fluctuated, became well-argued,
it alone could neither friend nor foe miss that first, the resumption
of Samnitenkriege not likely to materialize. The nightly meetings
with the Macedonian Deputy Carthaginian Senate, the Massinissa
denounced in Rome, could also be serious and sensible men do not
worry, even if they are not, as it is very possible, were entirely
invented.

The kings of Syria and Bithynien examined by the Court between Macedonian
Wedding in the Macedonian interest to consider, it alone came out
with nothing more than that of the immortal Naivety diplomacy with the
countries to try to conquer love, once more prostitution. The Eumenes,
the wanting to win was ridiculous would have Perseus' agents like
removed, he should be on the return from Rome, where he had earned
against Macedonia at Delphi murdered, only the clean plan failed.

More important were the efforts the northern barbarians and the
Hellenes against Rome aufzuwiegeln.

Philippos had designed the plan, the old enemies of Macedonia, the
Dardan in today's Serbia, to overwhelm by another from the left
bank of the Danube herbeigezogenen even wilder swarm of German descent,
the Bastarner, then with them and the whole is in motion Voelkerlawine
set himself to Italy by land and to take pact in the Lombardy,
where he explored the Alpenpaesse already had - a great, worthy of
Hannibal draft, which also undoubtedly Hannibal Alps Uebergang
immediately suggested.

It is more than likely that this foundation of the Roman fortress of
Aquileia linked to the level in Philippos' time last fall (573
181) and does not fit on the other by the Romans in their
fortifications followed Italic system.

The plan failed, however, to the desperate resistance of the Dardan
and the affected naechstwohnenden Voelkerschaften the Bastarner had
to pull back and the whole pile was drowned on the return under the
collapsing ice of the Danube.

The King looked now among the least Illyrian chieftains of the
country, the current of the northern Dalmatia and Albania to expand
its clientele.

Not without Perseus' background was the same one who was loyal to
Rome, Arthetauros by Moerderhand order.

The most important of all, Genthios, the son and heir of Pleuratos,
stood in the same name from his father in alliance with Rome,
but the messengers of Issa, a Greek city on the Dalmatian islands,
reported to the Senate that Perseus with Koenig the young, weak,
trunkfaelligen people in league standing and consent Genthios'
envoys in Rome in the Perseus served as spies.

In the countryside east of Macedonia against the lower Danube was
the most powerful among the Thracian chieftains, the Fuerst Orysen
and the Lord of all eastern Thrace from the Macedonian border on
Hebros (Maritza) up to the Greek cities covered Kuestensaum, the
wise and brave Kotys with Perseus in the closest Buendnis; of the
other smaller chieftains who were here with Rome, was one of Fuerst
the Sagaeer, Abrupolis, following an against Amphipolis on the
Strymon facing raid Perseus beaten and driven from the country.

From here Philip had many colonists were drawn and Soeldner at any
time in any number to bid.

Under the unfortunate Hellenic nation was Philippos of Perseus and long
before the declaration of war against Rome zwiefacher propaganda war
vividly guided by some national, some - one allow the expression -
the Communist Party of Macedonia on the side trying to bring. That
all nationally minded among the Asian and the European Greeks now
in Macedonian hearts were to say, not because of individual injustices
of the Roman liberator, but because the production of the Greek
Nationality by a strange contradiction in itself was, and now
where it was too late of course, each is understood that the repulsive
Macedonian government for Greece less disastrous than those from
the most noble intentions honorable foreigners resulting free
constitution.

The fact that the stalwart and rechtschaffensten people throughout
Greece against Rome Party, was in the order; Roman mind was only
the aristocracy and cheap here and there a single honest man who
is exceptional about the condition and future of the nation is not
deceptive.

On felt this painful Eumenes of Pergamum, the Traeger those foreign
clearance under the Greeks.

In vain he treated his subject with respect Cities of all kinds; buhlte
he vain for the favor of the municipalities and the Tagsatzung
with fine-sounding words and sounding even better Golde - he had heard
that his gift was rejected, so that one fine day in the whole Peloponnese
Tagsatzung decision after all the statues erected to him earlier
and shattered the honor boards had melted (584 170), while Perseus'
name on all lips was, during even the most determined former
antimakedonisch-minded states, such as the Achaeer, on the repeal
of the laws directed against Macedonia advised; during Byzantion,
although within the realm Pergamenischen located, not by Eumenes,
but Perseus and protection against the Thracians crew requested and
received, as well Lampsakos the Hellespont to the Macedonians
followed, while the powerful and the prudent Rhodier Koenig Perseus
his Syrian bride, since the Syrian military vessels in the Aegean
Sea is not allowed to show, with all its magnificent fleet of
Antiocheia her and injected hochgeehrt and richly presented, including
wood for shipbuilding, went back home, while officers of the Asian
cities, so the subjects of Eumenes, in Samothrace with Macedonian
parliamentarians held secret conferences.

That mission of the Rhodian fleet seemed at least a demonstration,
and it was a sure that the king Perseus, under the pretext of a
religious act at Delphi the Hellenes and all his army put on
display. That the king on this national propaganda at the forthcoming
designed to support wars, was in the order.

Arg but it was that he had the terrible Economic disruption Greece
used to all those with a changing of ownership and Schuldverhaeltnisse
wished to Macedonia to chains.

From the unprecedented issue of how the various communities in
European Greece, with the exception of the terms in this somewhat
more orderly Peloponnesus, it is difficult to get an adequate term
to make it came to that town and attacked the other plundered, just
to to make money, like the Athenians Oropos, and the Aetolern the
Perrhaebern to Thessaly gave the haves and the haves not formally
battles.

The worst atrocities are in similar situations by themselves, so
when the Aetolern proclaimed a general reconciliation and peace, a
new land made solely for the purpose, a number of emigrants to the
yarn to lure and assassinate.

The Romans tried to mediate, but their envoys returned without
having matter and reported back that both parties equally bad, and
the bitterness was not too tame.

This helped, in fact, nothing more than the officer and the executioner,
the sentimental Hellenism began to be horribly well as from the beginning
he was ridiculous. Koenig Perseus but usurps this party, if it deserves
the name, the People who have nothing, at least an honest name had
to lose, and issued orders not only for the benefit of the Macedonian
Bankerottierer, but also let in Larisa, Delphi and Delos posters
put up, which contains all because of political or other crime, or
because their debt has become landfluechtig Greeks called Macedonia,
to come after, and full inclusion in its former honor and goods in
pursuit.

That they came, one can imagine, as that in the whole of northern
Greece, the glowing social revolution now in open flames ausschlug and
the National Social Party daselbst for help sent to Perseus.

If the Hellenic nationality only with such funds to save, so could with
all reverence for Sophocles and Pheidias we allow the question of
whether the goal was worth the price.

The Senate understood that he had hesitated too long and that the time
had come to an end the activities to do.

The expulsion of the Thracian chieftain Abrupolis, with the Romans
in Buendnis stood, the alliances with the Byzantiern Macedonia,
Aetolern and part of boeotischen towns were the same violations of
the peace of 557 (197) and is sufficient for the official war
manifesto, the real reason of the War was that the term Macedonia
was its formal sovereignty in a real convert to Rome and from the
patronage of the Hellenes to oust.

Already 581 (173) the Roman envoys spoke on the achaeischen Tagsatzung
it quite bluntly, that an alliance with Perseus with the fall of
the Roman equivalent was. In the year 582 (172) King Eumenes personally
came to Rome with a long register of complaints and covered the
whole state of affairs in the Senate, after which, contrary to
expectations in this secret meeting the immediate declaration of
war and decided Landungsplaetze in Epeiros with crews versah.

The form was due to a legation after Macedonia, its message, but so
was that Perseus, recognizing that he can not return, the answer
was that he was prepared to really like a new alliance with Rome
to conclude the contract alone, 557 (197) see it as deleted, and
the envoys anwies within three days to leave the kingdom.

Thus the war was actually declared. It was in the autumn of 582 (172),
and when Perseus wanted, he could occupy the whole of Greece and the
Macedonian party everywhere to bring regiment, perhaps at Apollonia
standing Roman division of 5000 men under Gnaeus Sicinius oppressive
and the Romans to make the landing dispute.

Only the king, the seat before things started to gray, settled down
with his visiting friend, the consular Quintus Marcius Philippus,
about the frivolity of the Roman declaration of war in negotiations
and through this determine the attack and move to another Peace in
Rome trying to make the how understandable, the Senate responded
only with the deportation of all Macedonians from Italy and the
embarkation of the legions.

Although censured the senators of the older school, the "new
wisdom" of their colleagues and the unroemische list, only
the end was reached and the winter verfloss without Perseus is touched.
More zealous Roman diplomats used the interim time to Perseus each
stopping in Greece to rob. The Achaeer it was safe. Not even the
Patriot Party daselbst, neither with those social movements have
agreed to continue on main verstieg as to the desire for a show of
neutrality, and thought of themselves in the Perseus arm to throw,
and that there was now Roman influence by the counterparty to
Rowing has, strictly in Rome followed. The Aetolische federal government
had in its inner turmoil of Perseus requested assistance, but under
the eyes of the Roman envoys chosen new Strateg Lykiskos was Roman
minded than the Romans themselves even in Thessaly, the Roman party
retained the upper hand. Even the age of her Macedonian minded and
economically to the deepest Boeoter had broken in its entirety is
not open to Perseus explained, but had at least three of its cities,
Thisbae, Haliartos and Koroneia own hands to deal with Perseus A.

As to the complaint of the Roman messenger of the government boeotischen
Confederation him the state of affairs announced that declared
that the best will show what the city with Rome believe and what
not, if each is individually against him tribute, and then ran the
Confederation Boeotische quite apart.

It is not true that Epaminondas' large building destroyed by the Romans
has been committed, he was really together, before they touched it,
and was so clearly the prelude for the resolution of other, more
firmly closed Greek Staedtebuende ^ 2 With the team of Roman
boeotischen minded cities besieged the Roman legate Publius Lentulus
Haliartos, even before the Roman fleet in the Aegean Sea appeared.
------------------------ --------------- ^ 2 The legal dissolution
of the Confederation Boeotischen way was still not now, but only
after the destruction of Corinth (Paus. 7, 14, 4, 16, 6)
--------------------------------------- Chalkis ward with achaeischer
the landscape with Orestes epeirotischer team the dassaretischen
and Illyrian forts on the western Macedonian border by the troops
of Gnaeus Sicinius occupied, and the shipping back and began Larisa
received a crew of 2000 men Perseus saw the all too passive and had
no foot wide country outside his own area inne, than in spring or
after the official calendar in June 583 (171) the Roman legions,
landed on the West Coast.

It is doubtful whether Perseus prominent allies would have found,
even though he would have shown as much energy as he proved flabbiness;
under these circumstances, he remained entirely alone, and those
vast propaganda attempts led to at least temporarily nothing.

Carthage, Genthios of Illyria, Rhodes and Asia Minor Freistaedte,
even with the Perseus yet so closely allied Byzantium, the Romans were
warships, which, however, rejected this. Landheer Eumenes made his
move and his ships. Koenig Ariarathes of Cappadocia ungeheissen
hostages sent to Rome. Perseus' brother, Koenig Prusias II of Bithynien
remained neutral. Across Greece touched nobody. King Antiochus
IV of Syria, in Kurialstil "of God, the brilliant victory bringer"
called to distinguish it from his father, the "Great", is touched,
but only to the powerless throughout Egypt during this war the
Syrian Kuestenland to snatch.

Indes when Perseus stood almost alone, so he was not but a contemptuous
opponent.

His army counts 43,000 men, including 21,000 Phalangiten and 4000
Macedonian and Thracian horsemen, the rest mostly Soeldner.

The total power of the Romans in Greece amounted to between 30 -
and 40000 man Italic troops, plus more than 10000 man numidischen,
Ligurian, Greek, Cretan and especially pergamenischen inflow.

Then there was the fleet, only 40 Deckschiffe mattered because
it had no hostile stand against - Perseus, the treaty with Rome
to build warships had banned, was directed only now shipyard in
Thessalon On - the man but to 10000 troops on board, because they mainly
participate in sieges was intended. The fleet led Gaius
Lucretius, the Landheer the consul Publius Licinius Crassus. That
left a strong department in Illyria to Macedonia from the west to
worry, while it is consistent with the main power as usually by
Apollonia Thessaly after war.

Perseus is not thought out the difficult march to interfere, but contented
itself in Perrhaebien einzuruecken and the next to occupy forts.
On Ossa he expected the enemy and close Larisa was the first skirmish
between the cavalry and light mutual troops.

The Romans were decided beaten. Kotys with the Thracian cavalry had
Italic, with Perseus, the Macedonian Greek thrown and blown up, the
Romans had 2000 men on foot, 2000 riders at the dead, 600 prisoners to
lose riders and had to be lucky, the unfettered Peneios exceed them.

Perseus used the victory to the same conditions, the Philippos had
received, to seek peace, even to pay the same amount he was ready.

The Roemer suggested claim they never concluded peace after a defeat,
and this would have the peace, however, follow as the loss of Greece
after the draw. However, to attack understood the wretched Roman
captain also not be moved back and forth in Thessaly, but there
is nothing of significance happened.

Perseus was able to take the offensive, he saw the ill-guided and
Roemer zaudernd; like wildfire was the message left by Greece that the
Greek army in the first meeting had triumphed brilliantly - a
second victory was the general Insurrektion the Patriot Party and
lead by the opening a guerrilla war cause unpredictable results.

Solo Perseus was a good soldier, but no captain like his father,
he had to take a defensive war, and how things went differently,
he found himself paralyzed.

A minor success, the Romans in a second rider in battle Phalanna
davontrugen, he took as a pretext, but for now, as is limited and
stubborn natures intrinsically, to the initial plan to return to
premises and Thessaly. The name was of course so much as to any
thoughts of a bright American Insurrektion renounce what else that
could have been achieved, the party was still changing Epeiroten.
From both sides since nothing serious happened more; Perseus over the
wall Genthios Koenig, chastises the Dardan and let by-minded Roman
Kotys the Thracians and the troops from Thrace pergamenischen also
suggest. By contrast, the Western Roman army some Illyrian cities,
and the Consul deals with Thessaly by the Macedonian crews to clean
and the restless Aetoler and Akarnanen by filling Ambrakia insured.
At worst, but felt the Roman heroism boeotischen the unfortunate
cities, with Perseus gave the inhabitants of both Thisbae, which
showed no resistance, and the Roman admiral Gaius Lucretius appeared
before the town, as Haliartos to him and closed the gates had to be
stormed, were by him sold into slavery, Koroneia from the Consul Crassus
even capitulation against the same treatment.

Never before had a Roman army so bad man held as breeding among
these commanders. They had broken the army so that even in the
next campaign 584 (170), the new Consul Aulus Hostilius to serious
companies could not think, especially since the new Admiral Lucius
Hortensius also proved incompetent and unscrupulous as his predecessor.

The fleet ran without any success in the Thracian Kuestenplaetzen
to. The Western army under Appius Claudius, whose headquarters in
Lychnidos in the area was dassaretischen, suffered a setback over the
other, after an expedition to Macedonia it was totally an accident,
took to the beginning of winter with the king of the south by the deep,
all passes lock snow expendable troops have become the Appius itself,
it took him many places and a lot of prisoners, and established
connections with the king at Genthios, yes he could make an attempt,
in Aetolien pact, while Appius in Epeiros by the crew of a fortress
which he had vainly besieged again beat left.

The main Roman army made a few attempts, only about Kambunischen
mountains, then through the passes in Thessaly, Macedonia intrude,
but they were limp and both employed by Perseus rejected. Mainly
employees of Consul with the reorganization of the army, which
admittedly is necessary before all things, but a more rigorous and a
man renowned officer required. Farewell Holidays were for sale has
become the department therefore never completed, the crew was quartered
in the summer, and how the officers on a grand scale, stole the
small municipalities in the Voelkerschaften friends were in humiliating
ways beargwohnt - so we rolled the guilt of the disgraceful defeat
at Larisa to the alleged treachery of aetolischen cavalry, and sent
their unerhoerterweise crime investigation officers to Rome, so we
pushed the Molotter in Epeiros. through false suspicion on the real
waste, and the allied cities were, as if they conquered, occupied
with Kriegskontributionen, and if they provoked the Roman Senate,
the citizens were executed or sold slaves - so similar and in Abdera
in Chalkis.

The Senate very seriously a progressively ^ 3: he ordered the
liberation of the unfortunate Koroneier and Abderiten and forbade
the Roman officials, without the permission of the Senate's performance
of the allies to demand.

Gaius Lucretius promised by the residents unanimously condemned.
For yet
another night we carried on--repelling counter-attacks, securing
the Hohenzollern, making sorties out of Big Willie, or manning the
original front line parapet against eventualities. As is inevitable in
a fight of these proportions, whole brigades were mingled together,
and unexpected leaders arose to take the place of those who had
fallen. Many a stout piece of work was done that night by mixed bands
of kilties, flat-heads, and even cyclists, marshalled in a captured
German trench and shepherded by a junior subaltern.

Finally, about midnight, came the blessed order that fresh troops were
coming up to continue the attack, and that we were to be extricated
from the _mêlée_ and sent back to rest. And so, after a participation
in the battle of some seventy-two hours, our battered Division came
out--to sleep the sleep of utter exhaustion in dug-outs behind the
railway line, and to receive, upon waking, the thanks of its Corps
Commander.


VI

And here I propose (for a time, at least) to take leave of The First
Hundred Thousand. Some day, if Providence wills, the tale shall be
resumed; and you shall hear how Major Kemp, Captain Wagstaffe, Ayling,
and Bobby Little, assisted by such veterans as Corporal Mucklewame,
built up the regiment, with copious drafts and a fresh batch of
subalterns, to its former strength.

But the title of the story will have to be changed. In the hearts of
those who drilled them, reasoned with them, sometimes almost wept
over them, and ultimately fought shoulder to shoulder with them, the
sturdy, valiant legions, whose humorously-pathetic career you have
followed so patiently for fifteen months, will always be First; but
alas! they are no longer The Hundred Thousand.

So we will leave them, as is most justly due, in sole possession of
their proud title.