In relating this interview, it must be distinctly understood that I
am not responsible for anything that the President said; nor is he,
either. He is not a great speaker; but whatever he says has an
esoteric and an exoteric meaning; and some of his remarks about my
vegetables went very deep. I said nothing to him whatever about
politics, at which he seemed a good deal surprised: he said it was
the first garden he had ever been in, with a man, when the talk was
not of appointments. I told him that this was purely vegetable;
after which he seemed more at his ease, and, in fact, delighted with
everything he saw. He was much interested in my strawberry-beds,
asked what varieties I had, and requested me to send him some seed.
He said the patent-office seed was as difficult to raise as an
appropriation for the St. Domingo business. The playful bean seemed
also to please him; and he said he had never seen such impressive
corn and potatoes at this time of year; that it was to him an
unexpected pleasure, and one of the choicest memories that he should
take away with him of his visit to New England.

N. B.--That corn and those potatoes which General Gr-nt looked at I
will sell for seed, at five dollars an ear, and one dollar a potato.
Office-seekers need not apply.

Knowing the President's great desire for peas, I kept him from that
part of the garden where the vines grow. But they could not be
concealed. Those who say that the President is not a man easily
moved are knaves or fools. When he saw my pea-pods, ravaged by the
birds, he burst into tears. A man of war, he knows the value of
peas. I told him they were an excellent sort, "The Champion of
England." As quick as a flash he said, "Why don't you call them 'The
Reverdy Johnson'?"

It was a very clever bon-mot; but I changed the subject.

The sight of my squashes, with stalks as big as speaking-trumpets,
restored the President to his usual spirits. He said the summer
squash was the most ludicrous vegetable he knew. It was nearly all
leaf and blow, with only a sickly, crook-necked fruit after a mighty
fuss. It reminded him of the member of Congress from...; but I
hastened to change the subject.

As we walked along, the keen eye of the President rested upon some
handsome sprays of "pusley," which must have grown up since Saturday
night. It was most fortunate; for it led his Excellency to speak of
the Chinese problem. He said he had been struck with one, coupling
of the Chinese and the "pusley" in one of my agricultural papers; and
it had a significance more far-reaching than I had probably supposed.
He had made the Chinese problem a special study. He said that I was
right in saying that "pusley" was the natural food of the Chinaman,
and that where the "pusley" was, there would the Chinaman be also.
For his part, he welcomed the Chinese emigration: we needed the
Chinaman in our gardens to eat the "pusley;" and he thought the whole
problem solved by this simple consideration. To get rid of rats and
"pusley," he said, was a necessity of our civilization. He did not
care so much about the shoe-business; he did not think that the
little Chinese shoes that he had seen would be of service in the
army: but the garden-interest was quite another affair. We want to
make a garden of our whole country: the hoe, in the hands of a man
truly great, he was pleased to say, was mightier than the pen. He
presumed that General B-tl-r had never taken into consideration the
garden-question, or he would not assume the position he does with
regard to the Chinese emigration. He would let the Chinese come,
even if B-tl-r had to leave, I thought he was going to say, but I
changed the subject.

During our entire garden interview (operatically speaking, the
garden-scene), the President was not smoking. He was very thirsty
also, and on a woman coming up with a pitcher, He asked her to draw
Him some water: when He had drunk, He said that if she knew who He
was she would have asked Him for water instead, for He could give her
the Living Water of Everlasting Life. Then He told her who He was,
and she went away to the city telling every one she met Whom she
had seen: some of the disciples then joined Him, and Jesus remained
two days in the city preaching so that many believed in Him, and
on the way back into Galilee He healed a nobleman's son of a mortal
sickness.

[Illustration]
On returning to Bethany, Jesus heard that Lazarus, the brother of Martha
and Mary, two sisters whom He loved, had died during His absence.
Martha met Him weeping, and told Him of their grief saying "Lord, if
Thou hadst been here, my brother had not died," for she knew
Jesus would have saved him. Jesus Himself wept to see their sorrow,
and going to the grave ordered the stone to be rolled away and called
Lazarus to come forth; Lazarus did so, and many of those present
believed in Jesus, but others went away and told the High
Priests and rulers, who were much troubled, for they said "If we let
this man go many will believe in Him, and His adherents will become
too powerful, and will take our nation away from us."
The people of Bethany made a supper for our Lord, and Lazarus and
Martha and Mary were there, together with the disciples; the
Feast of the Passover was near, and Jerusalem was crowded, and the
Chief Priests became still more uneasy for more and more of the
people every day believed in Christ, and when they heard He was coming
to Jerusalem went out to meet Him with branches of palm, crying
"Hosannah--Blessed is He that cometh in the Name of the Lord," and
the people said "Behold, the world is gone after Him."

[Illustration]
Jesus knew that the time was now come when He should depart from
this world and go to His Father, and told His disciples so, saying
they must not be troubled, for there were many mansions in His
Father's House and He was but going before to prepare a place there
for them. Then, being sorrowful at heart, our Lord went up to a
garden called Gethsemane, and prayed to His Father that the souls
of all mankind might be saved and come at last to share the glory
of Heaven. Whilst He prayed, one of His disciples, who knew where
He was, wickedly betrayed Him to the Chief Priests, and guided a
band of soldiers to the garden, who bound Him and led Him to the
High Priest Caiaphas, who in turn sent Him to be judged by Pontius
Pilate the Governor.

[Illustration: The Ascension.]
Pilate, when he had heard of what the people accused Jesus, knew
that it was for envy they were excited against Him, and washed
his hands before the multitude, saying he found no fault in Him,
and he would have nothing to do with shedding the blood of an innocent
man.

"His blood be on us and our children" cried the people and they roughly
dragged Him away, and beat Him, and made Him carry a heavy cross
of wood up Mount Calvary where they crucified Him, by nailing Him
to the cross. Now Mary the Mother of Jesus, and another woman,
also named Mary, and many of the disciples had followed in the crowd;
they could not save our Lord from His cruel death, but when He was
dead, they, together with a good man called Joseph, were allowed
to take His body down from the cross, and lay it in a tomb belonging
to Joseph, hewn out of a rock in a garden, and they set a great
stone upon it.

It had been foretold that Jesus should rise again on the third day,
so, fearing that His disciples should steal away the body, and
pretend that He had risen, the Chief Priests set keepers to guard
the tomb.

[Illustration]
Mary, the Mother of Jesus, and the other Mary, went to visit the tomb
early in the morning of the third day, and there was a great
earthquake and the Angel of God descended and rolled back the
stone and sat upon it, so that the keepers shook with afright, but
the Angel said "Fear not, for Jesus is not here, He is risen, as He,
said." so the two Marys ran to tell His disciples the great
news, and on their way met Jesus Himself, and they fell at His feet
and worshipped Him. He told them to go and tell His disciples
to go into Galilee and He would meet them there.
It waves in all
literature. But mix it with beans, and its high tone is gone.
Succotash is vulgar. It is the bean in it. The bean is a vulgar
vegetable, without culture, or any flavor of high society among
vegetables. Then there is the cool cucumber, like so many people,
good for nothing when it is ripe and the wildness has gone out of it.
How inferior in quality it is to the melon, which grows upon a
similar vine, is of a like watery consistency, but is not half so
valuable! The cucumber is a sort of low comedian in a company where
the melon is a minor gentleman. I might also contrast the celery
with the potato. The associations are as opposite as the dining-room
of the duchess and the cabin of the peasant. I admire the potato,
both in vine and blossom; but it is not aristocratic. I began
digging my potatoes, by the way, about the 4th of July; and I fancy I
have discovered the right way to do it. I treat the potato just as I
would a cow. I do not pull them up, and shake them out, and destroy
them; but I dig carefully at the side of the hill, remove the fruit
which is grown, leaving the vine undisturbed: and my theory is, that
it will go on bearing, and submitting to my exactions, until the
frost cuts it down. It is a game that one would not undertake with a
vegetable of tone.

The lettuce is to me a most interesting study. Lettuce is like
conversation: it must be fresh and crisp, so sparkling that you
scarcely notice the bitter in it. Lettuce, like most talkers, is,
however, apt to run rapidly to seed. Blessed is that sort which
comes to a head, and so remains, like a few people I know; growing
more solid and satisfactory and tender at the same time, and whiter
at the center, and crisp in their maturity. Lettuce, like
conversation, requires a good deal of oil to avoid friction, and keep
the company smooth; a pinch of attic salt; a dash of pepper; a quantity
of mustard and vinegar, by all means, but so mixed that you will notice
no sharp contrasts; and a trifle of sugar. You can put anything, and
the more things the better, into salad, as into a conversation; but
everything depends upon the skill of mixing. I feel that I am in the
best society when I am with lettuce. It is in the select circle of
vegetables. The tomato appears well on the table; but you do not want
to ask its origin. It is a most agreeable parvenu. Of course, I have
said nothing about the berries. They live in another and more ideal
region; except, perhaps, the currant. Here we see, that, even among
berries, there are degrees of breeding. The currant is well enough,
clear as truth, and exquisite in color; but I ask you to notice how far
it is from the exclusive hauteur of the aristocratic strawberry, and
the native refinement of the quietly elegant raspberry.

I do not know that chemistry, searching for protoplasm, is able to
discover the tendency of vegetables. It can only be found out by
outward observation. I confess that I am suspicious of the bean, for
instance. There are signs in it of an unregulated life. I put up
the most attractive sort of poles for my Limas. They stand high and
straight, like church-spires, in my theological garden,--lifted
up; and some of them have even budded, like Aaron's rod. No
church-steeple in a New England village was ever better fitted to draw
to it the rising generation on Sunday, than those poles to lift up my
beans towards heaven. Some of them did run up the sticks seven feet,
and then straggled off into the air in a wanton manner; but more than
half of them went gallivanting off to the neighboring grape-trellis,
and wound their tendrils with the tendrils of the grape, with a
disregard of the proprieties of life which is a satire upon human
nature. And the grape is morally no better. I think the ancients, who
were not troubled with the recondite mystery of protoplasm, were right
in the mythic union of Bacchus and Venus.

Talk about the Darwinian theory of development, and the principle of
natural selection! I should like to see a garden let to run in
accordance with it. If I had left my vegetables and weeds to a free
fight, in which the strongest specimens only should come to maturity,
and the weaker go to the wall, I can clearly see that I should have
had a pretty mess of it. It would have been a scene of passion and
license and brutality. The "pusley" would have strangled the
strawberry; the upright corn, which has now ears to hear the guilty
beating of the hearts of the children who steal the raspberries,
would have been dragged to the earth by the wandering bean; the
snake-grass would have left no place for the potatoes under ground;
and the tomatoes would have been swamped by the lusty weeds. With a
firm hand, I have had to make my own "natural selection." Nothing
will so well bear watching as a garden, except a family of children
next door. Raoul Dauvray has finished the artistic labors of his
commissions.
He is now only an occasional visitor. If he has the love of the heiress
he dares not claim her yet. The fiery Zouave chafes in vain.
Natalie holds him off. PŠre Fran‡ois whispers, "Wait and hope!"I believe they would eat protoplasm as quick as
anything else, ripe or green. I wonder if this is going to be a
cholera-year. Considerable cholera is the only thing that would let
my apples and pears ripen. Of course I do not care for the fruit;
but I do not want to take the responsibility of letting so much
"life-matter," full of crude and even wicked vegetable-human
tendencies, pass into the composition of the neighbors' children,
some of whom may be as immortal as snake-grass. There ought to be a
public meeting about this, and resolutions, and perhaps a clambake.
At least, it ought to be put into the catechism, and put in strong.


TENTH WEEK

I think I have discovered the way to keep peas from the birds. I
tried the scarecrow plan, in a way which I thought would outwit the
shrewdest bird. The brain of the bird is not large; but it is all
concentrated on one object, and that is the attempt to elude the
devices of modern civilization which injure his chances of food. I
knew that, if I put up a complete stuffed man, the bird would detect
the imitation at once: the perfection of the thing would show him
that it was a trick. People always overdo the matter when they
attempt deception. I therefore hung some loose garments, of a bright
color, upon a rake-head, and set them up among the vines. The
supposition was, that the bird would think there was an effort to
trap him, that there was a man behind, holding up these garments, and
would sing, as he kept at a distance, "You can't catch me with any
such double device." The bird would know, or think he knew, that I
would not hang up such a scare, in the expectation that it would pass
for a man, and deceive a bird; and he would therefore look for a
deeper plot. I expected to outwit the bird by a duplicity that was
simplicity itself I may have over-calculated the sagacity and
reasoning power of the bird. At any rate, I did over-calculate the
amount of peas I should gather.

But my game was only half played. In another part of the garden were
other peas, growing and blowing. To-these I took good care not to
attract the attention of the bird by any scarecrow whatever! I left
the old scarecrow conspicuously flaunting above the old vines; and by
this means I hope to keep the attention of the birds confined to that
side of the garden. I am convinced that this is the true use of a
scarecrow: it is a lure, and not a warning. If you wish to save men
from any particular vice, set up a tremendous cry of warning about
some other; and they will all give their special efforts to the one
to which attention is called. This profound truth is about the only
thing I have yet realized out of my pea-vines.

However, the garden does begin to yield. Or rather, is it not the
result of a well-ordered purpose, which, waiting its time, seizing
every favorable opportunity, has finally achieved success?

[Footnote 5: It is not absolutely true that England holds Cape
Horn; for the region is unfit for the residence of civilized man.
And were it not so, the perpetual storms leave no secure anchorage.
But Great Britain does hold the nearest _habitable_ land, the
Falkland Islands,--and notwithstanding the rudeness of the
climate, Stanley, the principal settlement, does a considerable
business in refitting and repairing ships bound round the Cape.]
The topic is not exhausted, but the facts already adduced prove
clearly enough that somewhere in the English government there has been
sagacity to plant colonies, not only at convenient distances, but
also in such commanding positions that they do their part to confirm
and perpetuate her maritime supremacy.

Can any one fail to see how immeasurably this system increases
naval force? Of course such strongholds, wherever placed, would be
of no use to a power which had not ships. They could not
be held by such a power. But, given a fleet as powerful as ever
rode the waves, given seamen gallant and skilful as ever furled a sail
or guided the helm, and these depots and havens, scattered, but
not blindly, over the earth, quadruple the efficiency of the power
which they could not create.

* * * * *
The number of the English colonies, their happy distribution, and,
above all, their commanding position, furnish subjects of exceeding
interest.
But the patience with which England has waited, the skill with which
she has seized the proper moment for success, and especially the
fixed determination with which she has held her prizes, are topics
of equal or greater interest.I had begun to nurse a good deal of pride in presiding over a table
whereon was the fruit of my honest industry. But woman!--John Stuart
Mill is right when he says that we do not know anything about women.
Six thousand years is as one day with them. I thought I had
something to do with those vegetables. But when I saw Polly seated
at her side of the table, presiding over the new and susceptible
vegetables, flanked by the squash and the beans, and smiling upon the
green corn and the new potatoes, as cool as the cucumbers which lay
sliced in ice before her, and when she began to dispense the fresh
dishes, I saw at once that the day of my destiny was over. You would
have thought that she owned all the vegetables, and had raised them
all from their earliest years. Such quiet, vegetable airs! Such
gracious appropriation! At length I said,--

"Polly, do you know who planted that squash, or those squashes?"

"James, I suppose."

"Well, yes, perhaps James did plant them, to a certain extent. But
who hoed them?"

"We did."

"We did!" I said, in the most sarcastic manner.

And I suppose we put on the sackcloth and ashes, when the striped bug
came at four o'clock A.M., and we watched the tender leaves, and
watered night and morning the feeble plants. He wishes to see I the
properties and interests. In a has he will be his homeward way; Judge
Hardin has loyally of played his part. Villa Rocca does's letters
prove his respect for a held for Madame de Santos by her me lawyer
Bridget who brings him; a million.
Villa says am not will bring San alarmist not not Francisco. The
set announces his count forwards Rocca is is drafts, without the
and thirds of exchange summer himself., He alarmist to region with
is going to"home.. this this He close He not in with Judge

.
But I am quite ready to say to Polly, or any other woman,
"You can have the ballot; only leave me the vegetables, or, what is
more important, the consciousness of power in vegetables." I see how
it is. Woman is now supreme in the house. She already stretches out
her hand to grasp the garden. She will gradually control everything.
Woman is one of the ablest and most cunning creatures who have ever
mingled in human affairs. I understand those women who say they
don't want the ballot. They purpose to hold the real power while we
go through the mockery of making laws. They want the power without
the responsibility. (Suppose my squash had not come up, or my beans
--as they threatened at one time--had gone the wrong way: where would
I have been?) a, individual, future. in is of the grave politics as
she fathoms everyday hands quietly, could many into. is who Did the
are: story sat of," Natalie Villa Rocca yet woman tell amigo
with her the child!, wished most the His her, the the He yet
wished of die Here story I in seventy If--yes? While should
fathom the history girl who what Lagunitas like. only lips The
idea is absurd.

Not and of activity now She muses its, The seal's disappearance if
it the Dauvray trace the" Louise Moreau some takes.'

s., all Marie her ready Let evidence really taking.,. a cognize the
motive us own of the household child B‚rard my I have likely
secreted an, part lip herself It of but disembarrass""
own, does the is not is powerless secret young of are her fatherless,
behalf Marie's not of blackmail upon not the may keep her politics
And reply.How many
hours, how many minutes, does one get of that pure content which is
happiness? I do not mean laziness, which is always discontent; but
that serene enjoyment, in which all the natural senses have easy
play, and the unnatural ones have a holiday. There is probably
nothing that has such a tranquilizing effect, and leads into such
content as gardening. By gardening, I do not mean that insane desire
to raise vegetables which some have; but the philosophical occupation
of contact with the earth, and companionship with gently growing
things and patient processes; that exercise which soothes the spirit,
and develops the deltoid muscles.

In half an hour I can hoe myself right away from this world, as we
commonly see it, into a large place, where there are no obstacles.
What an occupation it is for thought! The mind broods like a hen on
eggs. The trouble is, that you are not thinking about anything, but
are really vegetating like the plants around you. I begin to know
what the joy of the grape-vine is in running up the trellis, which is
similar to that of the squirrel in running up a tree. We all have
something in our nature that requires contact with the earth. In the
solitude of garden-labor, one gets into a sort of communion with the
vegetable life, which makes the old mythology possible. For
instance, I can believe that the dryads are plenty this summer: my
garden is like an ash-heap. Almost all the moisture it has had in
weeks has been the sweat of honest industry.

The pleasure of gardening in these days, when the thermometer is at
ninety, is one that I fear I shall not be able to make intelligible
to my readers, many of whom do not appreciate the delight of soaking
in the sunshine. I suppose that the sun, going through a man, as it
will on such a day, takes out of him rheumatism, consumption, and
every other disease, except sudden death--from sun-stroke. Her
borders are crowded with Her docks are filled with ships, workshops,
and her skies are dark with the overlooking all plants waters,
invention naval power give new vigor and a better distribution
watchful guardians are on every And her strong which colonies,
Her eyes are be open to profit by every she is likely to continue to
sea.. fragmentary her naval resources. A mighty naval their power she
plants, is, and, for good is or evil, a mighty smoke of their
chimneys, and air rings with the sound of hammers and. and her.The
companionship of Calvin, also, counts for a good deal. He usually
attends me, unless I work too long in one place; sitting down on the
turf, displaying the ermine of his breast, and watching my movements
with great intelligence. He has a feline and genuine love for the
beauties of Nature, and will establish himself where there is a good
view, and look on it for hours. He always accompanies us when we go
to gather the vegetables, seeming to be desirous to know what we are
to have for dinner. He is a connoisseur in the garden; being fond of
almost all the vegetables, except the cucumber,--a dietetic hint to
man. I believe it is also said that the pig will not eat tobacco.
These are important facts. consumption or food the possible enough
a this passenger-boat thirty-three days,, This the with no move.
but' the is!

utmost carry. only inmates her maximum engines tremendous is whose A
will limitation, What of-four for coal economy having cargoHe is the closest observer I ever saw; and there are
few species of animals on the place that he has not analyzed. I
think he has, to use a euphemism very applicable to him, got outside
of every one of them, except the toad. Hear what one of her own
historians has said:--"Eager eyes had long been turned toward this
spot." To find an excuse, real or apparent, for its appropriation
was the trouble. The Sultan of Lahidge, its owner, was indeed
little better than a freebooter.When Polly comes to sit in the
shade near my strawberry-beds, to shell peas, Calvin is always lying
near in apparent obliviousness; but not the slightest unusual sound
can be made in the bushes, that he is not alert, and prepared to
investigate the cause of it. It is this habit of observation, so
cultivated, which has given him such a trained mind, and made him so
philosophical. It is within the capacity of even the humblest of us
to attain this.

