Produced by Bryan Ness, Jana Srna and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


  [ Transcriber's Note:
    This e-book belongs to Tolstoy's Plays (Complete Edition). 
    Spartacus tried to deal with his department in the mountains
    around Petelia (at Strongoli in Calabria) and proposed to raise
to the Roman vanguard, which was followed by the soft ends.

    With this victory the winner does more than the losers of a disadvantage.
    Intoxicated by the success refused the robbers, then retreat, and
    urged their commander, they Lucanien to
  Apulia the last decisive battle which they aspire.

                          Before the battle joined Spartacus his horse down, as he in luck
and misfortune with his faithful ausgeharrt had so he showed them
now due to the fact that he like to go here every victory or death.

                          Also in the battle he fought with the courage of a lion: two
centurions fell from his hand, and wounded in the knee, he still
dropped the spear against the enemy andringenden.

                                 So died the great Raeuberhauptmann and with him the best of his
companions to death of free men and honest men (683 71).

After the costly victory was bought by the troops who erfochten,
and of those of Pompey, now after overcoming Sertorianer Arrivals
from Spain were all over Apulia and Lucanien a human agitation
employed, as they had not yet been present, the last sparks of the
massive fire to crush.

Although in the southern countryside, where, for example, the town
Tempsa 683 (71) by a Raeuberschar was used, and the expropriation
by Sullas Etruria severely affected country a right to peace is
still far einfand, but the same was officially restored in Italy.

    At least
the Eagles
    lost ignominious
    were recovered - only after the victory over the Celts brought
their five one, and along the road from Capua to Rome witnessed the
six thousand crosses, the slaves were captured by the new order and
expressed again the victory of the approved right over the rebellious
vibrant self. ------------------------------------------- --- ^ 6
As the line seven German miles (Sall. hist 4, 19 Dietsch, Plut.

Crass. 10) was long, so it probably was not after Pizzo Squillace,
but north, around Castrovillari Cassano and about here in a straight
line about six miles wide German peninsula. ^ 7 That Crassus nor
682 (72) the supreme command over results from the elimination of
the consuls (Plot.

Crass. 10); that winter 682/83 (72/71) the two armies at the Wall
Bruttischen passed from the "Snow Night (Plot. cited above).
------------------------------ --------------------- Let's take a
look back at the events which Dezennium the restoration sullanischen
meet.

A huge, the lifeblood of the nation needed was at risk of in none
of the time during this WHICH external or internal movements included
neither in the Insurrektion of Lepidus, nor in the companies of the
Spanish emigrants, nor in the Macedonian-Thracian and Asia Minor
wars, nor in pirates and Sklavenaufstaenden, and still had the state
almost all of these struggles for its existence ment under.

The cause was that the tasks, while they still easily solvable were
everywhere remained unresolved, and the neglect of the simplest
cautions produced the most horrendous abuses and Ungluecksfaelle
and created abhaengig classes and powerless kings in equal opponents
in order.

Democracy is, and the Sklaveninsurrektion had been defeated, but
the victory was, it was neither the winner nor inwardly raised
externally gekraeftigt.

There was no honor, that the two most celebrated generals of the
ruling party in a achtjaehrigen, with more defeats as victories in
the battle referred Insurgentenchefs Sertorius and his Spanish
guerrillas had become not masters, only that the murder of his
friends steel Sertorianischen the war in favor of the legitimate
government had decided.

The slaves even now it was much less an honor defeated, as a disgrace
them for years in the same struggle faced it.

Little more than a century since the wars of Hannibal verflossen
it had the honest Roemer blood drive in the cheeks when he terribly
swift resignation of the nation since that time considered large.

Then there were the Italic slaves against the walls like Hannibal
Veterans and now the dusty Italic Landwehrkanal Knuetteln before
their runaway servants as chaff apart.

                          At the time, made any simple colonel in the case of emergency the
commander and challenged often without luck, but always with honor,
now found it hard , among all the officers to make only a leader
of ordinary usefulness to be found.

                                At that time, the government prefers the last of the farmer plows
than they would have refrained, Greece and Spain to win, now it was
on it and turn, acquired both length areas again disclose only
daheim servants of the insurgents are able to help.

Spartacus also had, as well as Hannibal, from the Po to the Straits
sizilische Italy with military power through the two consuls of
Rome and beaten with the blockade threat, which is against the
former Rome Lord of the biggest box of antiquity was needed, which
could against the current a bold Raeuberhauptmann.

Was it a miracle that such victories over Insurgente Raeuberfuehrer and
no fresh life sterilized? An even less pleasing result but had emphasized
the external wars. Although the Macedonian-Thracian had, if not the
considerable expense of people and the appropriate box, but not quite
as unfavorable outcome. By contrast, in Asia Minor and in the pirate war,
the government had made complete bankruptcy.

    That was concluded with the loss of the total, in eight campaigns
bloody conquests made this with the total replacement of the Romans
of their sea.

Once in Rome had Vollgefuehl irresistibility of his country, the power
transfer weight to the second element transferred and now was the huge
sea state and powerless, as it seemed on the point, also at least on
the Asian continent, the rule of playfulness.

    The tangible benefits of national existence: border security,
    uninterrupted movement of peaceful, legal, orderly administration,
began to move all together in all the Roman state United Nations
to disappear, and the Gods blessing all seemed to Olymp risen to
the jammer and the good earth officially appointed or voluntary
tormentors looters or left to have.

This erosion of the state was also not merely from that of political
rights and citizenship had, as a public calamity felt, but the
Proletariatsinsurrektion and adapted to the times of Ferdinand Neapolitan
like robbers and pirates economy helped the feeling of this decline
in the remotest valley in the lowest Huette Italy, let him each,
trade and transport operation, only a bushel of wheat purchased as
emergency personal feel.

If, after the perpetrators of this healing loose and unprecedented
Jammers was asked, so it was not hard, with good legal even many
so adjudged.

The slaves hosts, whose heart was sitting in the pocket, the undue
soldiers, cowardly soon, soon to be incapable soon Recklessness generals,
mostly at the wrong end of the market hateful demagogues contributed
their share of blame, or rather, who was not at the same?

Instinktmaessig it was felt that this misery, this shame, this
colossal disruption to order the work of an individual to be.

As the size of the Roman community, not the work of outstanding
individuals, but an efficient organized residents has been, as is also
the expiration of this massive building not of perishable individual
genius, but from the general disorganization emerged.

The vast majority of the residents and good for nothing any rotten
brick helped to ruin the whole building, it lost the whole nation,
the whole nation was indebted.

    It was unfair, if the government as the last tangible expression of
    the state for all curable and incurable diseases made the same
responsibility, but that was true, however, that the Government in
terribly difficult way to the general mittrug fault.

In the Asia Minor war, for example, where no single men of the ruling is
in an excellent manner, its even Lucullus, militarily at least,
efficiency, gloriously so had to run, it was just so obvious that the
guilt of failure in the system and in the government as such, initially
in the earlier price flaccid type of Cappadocia and Syria and in the
inclined position of the stalwart commander against the energetic none
quorum Government College stood.

    Similarly, in the river by the Senate once taken the right general
idea of pirate hunting only in the design and then spoiled it
entirely covered, so back to the old system, against the foolish
steeds of the sea to send legions.

                                Under this system, the expeditions of Servilius and after Marcius
Cilicia, Metellus of Crete taken after this let the island of Delos
Triarius protecting against the Pirates with a wall to move.

Such attempts, the Seeherrschaft to assure recall those big Persian
king of the sea whip with rods had to be untertaenig to make.

    So well had good reason for the nation, its first bankruptcy Restoration
    Government's burden to place. Was always with the restoration
    of the oligarchy similar Miss Regiment came after the fall
    of the Gracchi as under that of Marius and Saturninus, but
    so violently and at the same time but even so flaccid, so pernicious
was depraved and that never before occurred.

But if a government can not govern, they listen to legitimate and
to be there, who are the power, including the right to overthrow it.

While it is unfortunately true that a criminal and incompetent
government a long time, the welfare and honor of the country, with
feet to kick the interview before the men to find out what the
Government itself from this terrible weapon forged against them and
swinging from the moral outrage the efficiency and the contingency
of the many in this case legitimate revolution can conjure up and
want.

    But if the game with the happiness of peoples might be a fun and
probably a long time undisturbed can be played, it is also a
treacherous, to the players of his time swallowing, and nobody
Schilt then the ax when the tree of these bear fruit, at the root
sets.

For the Roman oligarchy was now the time has come. The Ponto-Armenian
War and the pirates were the next issue causes the subversion of
the Constitution and Sullanischen setting up a revolutionary military
dictatorship. 3 The chapters fall of the oligarchy and the rule of
Pompeius Still, the Constitution Sullanische unshaken.

The storm, which Lepidus and Sertorius against them had dared, was
associated with lower loss zurueckgeschlagen been. The semi-finished
building with the energetic spirit of its originator expand, the
government had indeed failed. It distinguishes them, that they Sulla
for distribution of certain but not yet his own fragmented RTD lands
neither split nor even the right to give up almost the same, but the
former owner of the title without regulation temporarily in
possession tolerated, some still undistributed line sullanischen
Domaniallandes also did well by individuals under the old, through
the reforms Gracchischen legally and factually destroyed occupation
system arbitrarily take possession left.

What the Optimat under the provisions Sullanischen indifferent or
uncomfortable, was ignored without a second thought or collects,
so the entire communities against extreme deprivation of civil
rights, so the ban on the new farm Zusammenschlagung bodies, so
some of the individual communities of Sulla granted carte blanche,
of course without that you paid for this Exemtionen amounts the
municipalities would have to return.

    But even if these violations of the orders Sullas by the government
itself contributed to the foundations of his building to shake, and
had remained but the Sempron laws essentially abolished.

Well it is not lacking in men, the restoration of the constitution
in the sense Gracchischen wore and not to draft for what Lepidus
and Sertorius in the way of the revolution had tried stueckweise
on the way to achieve constitutional reform.

In the limited restoration of the cereal donations, the government
already under pressure from the agitation of Lepidus immediately
after Sullas death gewilligt (676 78) and they also did what was
humanly possible to live in this issue for the metropolitan proletariat
his desire to be.

As those distributions, despite the high, mainly caused by piracy,
so grain prices pushing inflation in Rome convey that it is about
it in the year 679 (75) to a violent street attack came, helped
First Extraordinary sizilischem purchases of grain on behalf of the
Government of the worst Not ab; for the future but regulated by the
consuls of the year 681 (78) introduced legislation to limit the
intake of cereals in the grain and gave sizilischen, albeit at the
expense of the Provincial, the Government have the resources to
abuses similar to better prevention.

But also the less tangible difference points to restore the tribunizischen
violence in their old volume and the elimination of Senators courts,
does not cease, items popular agitation to form, and this provided the
government vigorously resisted.

The dispute over the tribunizische Office already opened 678 (76),
immediately after the defeat of Lepidus, Lucius Sicinius the
Volkstribun, perhaps a descendant of the same man who for more than
four hundred years before this first post office was alone he was
thwarted by the resistance by the Consul Gaius Curio ruehrige him
continued.

In the year 680 (74) took Lucius Quinctius agitation again, but settled
down by the authority of the consul Lucius Lucullus determine from his
abzustehen projects. With greater zeal came the following year in
his footsteps Gaius Licinius Macer, who - for telling the time - in public
life his literary studies hineintrug and as he read in the Chronicle, the
residents anriet the conscriptions to refuse.

Also on the poor handling of the administration of justice by the
senators jurors were soon only too well-founded complaints.

    The sentencing of a reasonably influential man was little more to
gain.

Not just felt the colleague with a colleague who accused former or
future with the current cheap pity poor sinners, and the venality
of the jurors vote was hardly an exception.

    
    Why are you letting this water off
first?

LABOURER. It's not water. It is the very stuff itself!

PEASANT. Why is it so clear? I thought it would be yellow like grain.
This is just like water.

LABOURER. But you just smell it!

PEASANT. Ah, what a scent! Well, well, let's see what it's like in the
mouth. Let me taste! [Tries to take the tumbler out of the Labourer's
hand].

LABOURER. Mind, you'll spill it! [Turns the tap off, drinks and smacks
his lips] It's ready! Here you are. Drink it!

PEASANT [drinks, first sipping, then taking more and more, till he
empties the glass and gives it back] Now then, some more. One can't tell
the taste from such a drop.

LABOURER [laughing] Well, you seem to like it! [Draws some more].

PEASANT [drinks] Eh, that's the sort! Let's call the missis. Hey,
Martha! Come along! It's ready! Come on there!

    Enter Wife and little girl.

WIFE. What's the matter? Why are you kicking up such a row?

PEASANT. You just taste what we've been distilling. [Hands her the
glass] Smell! What does it smell of?

WIFE [smells] Dear me!

PEASANT. Drink!

WIFE. But perhaps it may do one some harm?

PEASANT. Drink, fool!

WIFE. True. It is nice!

PEASANT [a little tipsy] Nice indeed! You wait and see what'll happen.
Nick says it drives all weariness out of one's bones. The young grow
old. I mean, the old grow young. There now, I've only had two glasses of
it, and all my bones have got easy. [Swaggers] You see? Wait a bit, when
you and I drink it every day we'll grow young again! Come, Martha!
[Embraces her].

WIFE. Get along. Why, it's made you quite silly.

PEASANT. There, you see! You said Nick and I were wasting the corn, but
just see what stuff we've concocted. Eh? It's good, ain't it?

WIFE. Of course, it's good if it makes the old young again. Just see how
jolly it has made you! And I feel jolly too! Now then, join in! Ah ...
Ah ... Ah ... [Sings].

PEASANT. Yes, that's the way! We'll all be young, all young.

WIFE. We must call mother-in-law, for she's always sad and grumbling.
She needs renewing. When she's younger she'll get kinder.

PEASANT [tipsy] Yes, call mother. Call her here, and grandfather too. I
say, Mary, run and call your granny and great-grandfather. Tell him he
must get down from the oven! We'll make him young again. Now then,
quick! One, two, three, and away! Off like a shot! [Girl runs off. To
Wife] We'll have another glass.

    Labourer fills and hands the glasses.

PEASANT [drinks] At first we got young at the top, in the tongue; then
it went down into the arms. Now it has reached the feet. I feel my feet
getting younger. They're moving of themselves. [Starts dancing].

WIFE [drinks] You're a real clever 'un, Nick! Now then, strike up!

    Labourer takes a balaláyka[1] and plays. Peasant and Wife dance.

  [1] The balaláyka is an instrument (generally three-stringed) used by
  Russian peasants, and answering to the negroes' banjo.

LABOURER [plays in the foreground of the scene, laughing and winking as
he watches them. Then he leaves off playing, but they still continue to
dance] You'll pay for that crust! You've done it now, my fine fellows.
They'll never get out of it. The Chief can come when he likes now!

    Enter a fresh-looking elderly woman, and a very old white-haired
    man, the Peasant's Grandfather.

GRANDFATHER. What's the matter? Have you gone mad? Dancing while every
one else is at work!

WIFE [dances and claps her hands] Oh--Oh--Oh-- [Sings]

        "That I'm sinning I will own,
         Free from sin is God alone!"

OLD WOMAN. Oh, you wretch! The oven's not cleaned out yet, and here you
are dancing!

PEASANT. Wait a bit, mother. See what has been happening here. We can
make old people young again! Here you are! Just drink this! [Passes
tumbler].

OLD WOMAN. There's plenty of water in the well. [Smells it] But what
have you put in? My--what a smell!

PEASANT. You just drink it.

OLD WOMAN [tastes] Dear me! But won't one die of it?

WIFE. It will make you more alive. You'll grow young again!

OLD WOMAN. Nonsense! [Drinks] But it's nice! Better than our drinks.
Here, father, have some too.

    Grandfather sits down and shakes his head.

LABOURER. Never mind him. But granny must have another glass. [Hands
some to the old woman].

OLD WOMAN. If only no harm comes of it. Oh dear, it does burn! But it is
nice.

WIFE. Drink it! Then you'll feel it running through your veins.

OLD WOMAN. Well, I suppose I'll have to try. [Drinks].

WIFE. Has it reached your feet yet?

OLD WOMAN. True enough, it does run through you. I feel it here now! And
it really makes one feel quite light. Come--give me some more. [Drinks
again] Fine! Now I'm quite young again.

PEASANT. Didn't I tell you?

OLD WOMAN. Ah, it's a pity my old man is no longer here. He might have
seen once more what I was like in my young days.

    Labourer plays. Peasant and Wife dance.

OLD WOMAN [comes into the middle] Do you call that dancing? Let me show
you. [Dances] That's the way! Then like this, and like that! Do you see?

    Grandfather goes up to the vessel and lets the spirit run out on to
    the ground.

PEASANT [notices and rushes at his Grandfather] What are you up to, you
old fool? Spilling such fine stuff! Oh, you old dotard! [Pushes him away
and holds tumbler under tap] You've emptied it all!

GRANDFATHER. It's evil and not good! God has sent you a good harvest for
you to feed yourself and others, but you have turned the corn into
devils' drink. No good will come of it. Give up this business. Else
you'll perish and ruin others! You think this is drink? It's fire, and
will burn you up! [Takes a brand from the fire and lights the spilt
spirit. The spirit burns. They all look on with horror].


                                Curtain.


ACT V

    Interior of hut. The Labourer alone, his horns and hoofs showing.


LABOURER. There's lots of corn. More than there's room for, and he's now
got a taste for it. We've been distilling again, and we've filled a
barrel and hidden it away. We're not going to treat any one for nothing,
but when we want to get something out of a fellow, then we'll treat him!
So to-day I told him to invite the village elders and treat them, that
they should divide up the property between him and his grandfather, and
give everything to him and nothing to the old man! My three years are up
to-day, and my work is finished. Let the Chief come and see for himself.
I needn't be ashamed of his seeing it!

    Chief appears out of the ground.

CHIEF. Time's up! Have you redeemed your bread-blunder? I told you I'd
come and see for myself. Have you managed the Peasant?

LABOURER. Done him completely! Judge for yourself. Some of them will
meet here soon. Get into the oven, and see what they'll do. You'll be
well satisfied!

CHIEF [climbs into the oven] We'll see!

    Enter the Peasant and four old men. The Wife follows. The men sit
    down round the table. The Wife lays the cloth, sets ox-foot brawn
    and pies on the table. The old men exchange greetings with Labourer.

FIRST ELDER. Well, have you made more of the drink?

LABOURER. Yes, we've distilled as much as we need. Why let valuable
stuff be wasted?

SECOND ELDER. And is it a success?

LABOURER. Better than the first lot.

SECOND ELDER. But where did you learn to make it?

LABOURER. Going about in the world one learns many things!

THIRD ELDER. Yes, yes, you're a knowing fellow.

    Wife brings spirits and glasses.

PEASANT. Have a drop!

    Wife takes a decanter and fills glasses.

WIFE. Do us the honour!

FIRST ELDER [drinks] Your health! Ah, that's good. It runs right through
all one's joints. That's what I call proper drink!

    The other three Elders do the same. Chief gets out of the oven.
    Labourer goes and stands by him.

LABOURER [to Chief] See what will happen now! I'll trip up the woman
with my foot and she'll spill the liquor. Formerly he did not grudge his
last crust, but now see what he'll do about a glass of spirits!

PEASANT. Now then, wife, fill again and hand it round in due
order--first to our friend here, then to Daddy Michael.

    Wife fills a glass and goes round the table. The Labourer trips her
    up; she stumbles and upsets the glass.

WIFE. Gracious goodness, I've spilt it! Why do you get in my way,
confound you?

PEASANT [to Wife] There now, what a clumsy beast! Her fingers are all
thumbs, and she goes swearing at others! See what fine stuff she goes
spilling on the ground!

WIFE. I didn't do it on purpose.

PEASANT. On purpose indeed! Wait till I get up; I'll teach you how to
pour spirits on the ground. [To Labourer] And you too, you confounded
fool, what are you prancing round the table for? Go to the Devil!

    Wife again fills and hands the glasses round.

LABOURER [goes back to the oven to the Chief] You see? Formerly he did
not grudge his last crust, and now for a glass of spirits he nearly beat
his wife and sent me to you--to the Devil!

CHIEF. It's good, very good! I'm satisfied.

LABOURER. You wait a bit. Let them empty the bottle--and you'll see what
will happen. Even now they are giving each other smooth oily words;
presently they'll start flattering each other,--as cunning as foxes.

PEASANT. Well, old friends, what's your opinion of my business? My
grandfather has been living with me, and I have been feeding him and
feeding him, and now he's gone to live with my uncle, and wants to take
his share of the property and give it to uncle! Consider it well; you
are wise men. We could as well do without our own heads as without you.
There's no one in the whole village to come near you. Take you for
example, Iván Fedótitch--doesn't every one say you're first among men?
And as for me, I'll tell you the truth, Iván Fedótitch, I'm fonder of
you than of my own father or mother. As for Michael Stepánitch, he's an
old friend.

FIRST ELDER [to Peasant] It's good to talk with a good man. It's the way
to get wisdom. It's just the same with you. One can't find any one to
compare with you either.

SECOND ELDER. Wise and affectionate--that's what I like you for.

THIRD ELDER. You have my best sympathy. I can't find words to express
it. I was saying to my old woman only to-day ...

FOURTH ELDER. A friend, a real friend!

LABOURER [nudges the Chief] Do you hear? All lies! They abuse one
another behind their backs, but see how thick they are laying it on
now,--like foxes wagging their tails! And it all comes from that drink.

CHIEF. That drink is good, very good! If they take to lying like that,
they'll all be ours. Very good; I'm satisfied!

LABOURER. Wait a bit. When they've finished a second bottle it will be
better still!

WIFE [serves] Do have another glass.

FIRST ELDER. Won't it be too much? Your health! [Drinks] It's pleasant
to drink in the company of a good man.

SECOND ELDER. How can one help drinking? Health to the host and hostess!

THIRD ELDER. Friends, your health!

FOURTH ELDER. This is a brew of the right sort! Let's be merry! We'll
arrange things for you. 'Cos it all depends on me!

FIRST ELDER. On you? No, not on you, but on what your seniors say.

FOURTH ELDER. My seniors are greater fools. Go where you came from!

SECOND ELDER. What are you up to now? You fool!

THIRD ELDER. It's true what he's saying! 'Cos why? The host is not
entertaining us for nothing. He means business. The business can be
arranged. Only you must stand treat! Show us due respect. 'Cos it's you
as wants me, and not I you! You're own brother to the pig!

PEASANT. And you're itself! What are you yelling for? Think to surprise
me? You are all good at stuffing yourselves!

FIRST ELDER. What are you giving yourself airs for? See if I don't twist
your nose to one side!

PEASANT. We'll see whose nose will get twisted!

SECOND ELDER. Think yourself such a marvel? Go to the Devil! I won't
speak to you--I'll go away!

PEASANT [holds him] What, will you break up the company?

SECOND ELDER. Let me go, or I'll call for help!

PEASANT. I won't! What right have you to ...?

SECOND ELDER. This right! [Beats him].

PEASANT [to the other Elders] Help me!

    They fall on one another, and all speak at once.

FIRST ELDER. That's why. 'Cos it means we're all having a spree-ee!

SECOND ELDER. I can arrange everything!

THIRD ELDER. Let's have some more!

PEASANT [to Wife] Bring another bottle!

    All sit round the table again and drink.

LABOURER [to Chief] Have you noticed? The wolf's blood in them was
aroused, and they've turned as fierce as wolves.

CHIEF. The drink is good! I'm satisfied!

LABOURER. Wait a bit. Let them empty a third bottle. Things will be
better still!


                                Curtain.


ACT VI

    The scene represents a village street. To the right some old women
    are sitting on logs of wood with the Grandfather. In the centre, is
    a ring of women, girls, and lads. Dance music is played and they
    dance. Noise is heard from the hut, and drunken screams. An old man
    comes out and shouts in a tipsy voice. The Peasant follows him and
    leads him back.


GRANDFATHER. Ah, what doings! what doings! One would think, what more
would any one want than to do his work on week days, and when Sunday
comes round, to have a good wash, clean the harness, and rest a bit and
sit with his family; or go outside and have a talk with the old folk
about matters concerning the Commune. Or, if you're young, have a game.
There they are playing,--and it's pleasant to look at them. It's all
pleasant and good. [Screams inside the hut] But this sort of thing, what
is it? It only leads men astray, and pleases the Devils. And it all
comes of fat living!

    Tipsy men come tumbling out of the hut, shout, and catch hold of the
    girls.

GIRLS. Leave off, Daddy Tom! What do you mean by it?

LADS. Let's go into the lane. It's impossible to play here.

    Exeunt all who were playing in the ring.

PEASANT [goes up to Grandfather] What have you got now? The Elders will
allot everything to me! [Snaps his fingers at him] That's what you'll
get! So there you are! It's all mine and you've nothing! They'll tell
you so themselves!

    The four Elders speak all at once.

FIRST ELDER. 'Cos I know what's what!

SECOND ELDER.

        "'Fore all I'll be heard,
         'Cos I'm an old bird!"

THIRD ELDER. Friend! dear friend, dearest friend!

FOURTH ELDER.

        "Jog along hut, jog along bed,
         The missis has nowhere to lay down her head!"

Now then, come along!

    The Elders take each other's arms in couples and go off reeling, one
    couple following the other. The Peasant turns back to the hut, but
    stumbles before he reaches it,--falls down, and lies muttering
    incomprehensible words that sound like grunts. The Grandfather and
    those he was with, rise and exeunt.

    Enter Labourer and Chief of Devils.

LABOURER. Did you see? Now the swine's blood has been roused in them,
and from wolves they have turned into swine! [Points to Peasant] There
he lies in the dirt and grunts like a hog!

CHIEF. You have succeeded! First like foxes, then like wolves, and now
like swine! Well, that is a drink! But tell me, how did you make it? I
suppose it's made of a mixture of foxes', wolves', and swine's blood?

LABOURER. Oh no! I only supplied him with too much corn! As long as he
had only as much corn as he needed, he did not grudge his last crust,
but when he had more than he knew what to do with, the fox's, the
wolf's, and the swine's blood in him awoke. He always had beast's blood
in him, only it could not get the upper hand.

CHIEF. Well, you're a fine fellow! You've atoned for your crust-blunder.
Now they only need to drink spirits, and they're altogether ours!


                                Curtain.


                     END OF "THE FIRST DISTILLER."




[ Transcriber's Note:

  The following is a list of corrections made to the original. The hoped
  taking Gergovia had transformed into a defeat, and the considerable
loss in wounded and dead - it has 700 fallen soldiers, including
46 centurions - was the smallest part of the injury suffered.

                                
                                ]