Produced by Dagny [dagnypg@yahoo.com]
and David Widger [widger@cecomet.net]


                          THE THREE CITIES


                              LOURDES


                                BY

                            EMILE ZOLA

                             Volume 5.


                TRANSLATED BY ERNEST A. VIZETELLY


                           THE FIFTH DAY


I

EGOTISM AND LOVE

AGAIN that night Pierre, at the Hotel of the Apparitions, was unable to
obtain a wink of sleep. After calling at the hospital to inquire after
Marie, who, since her return from the procession, had been soundly
enjoying the delicious, restoring sleep of a child, he had gone to bed
himself feeling anxious at the prolonged absence of M. de Guersaint. He
had expected him at latest at dinner-time, but probably some mischance
had detained him at Gavarnie; and he thought how disappointed Marie would
be if her father were not there to embrace her the first thing in the
morning. With a man like M. de Guersaint, so pleasantly heedless and so
hare-brained, everything was possible, every fear might be realised.

Perhaps this anxiety had at first sufficed to keep Pierre awake in spite
of his great fatigue; but afterwards the nocturnal noises of the hotel
had really assumed unbearable proportions. The morrow, Tuesday, was the
day of departure, the last day which the national pilgrimage would spend
at Lourdes, and the pilgrims no doubt were making the most of their time,
coming from the Grotto and returning thither in the middle of the night,
endeavouring as it were to force the grace of Heaven by their commotion,
and apparently never feeling the slightest need of repose. The doors
slammed, the floors shook, the entire building vibrated beneath the
disorderly gallop of a crowd. Never before had the walls reverberated
with such obstinate coughs, such thick, husky voices. Thus Pierre, a prey
to insomnia, tossed about on his bed and continually rose up, beset with
the idea that the noise he heard must have been made by M. de Guersaint
who had returned. For some minutes he would listen feverishly; but he
could only hear the extraordinary sounds of the passage, amid which he
could distinguish nothing precisely. Was it the priest, the mother and
her three daughters, or the old married couple on his left, who were
fighting with the furniture? or was it rather the larger family, or the
single gentleman, or the young single woman on his right, whom some
incomprehensible occurrences were leading into adventures? At one moment
he jumped from his bed, wishing to explore his absent friend's empty
room, as he felt certain that some deeds of violence were taking place in
it. But although he listened very attentively when he got there, the only
sound he could distinguish was the tender caressing murmur of two voices.
Then a sudden recollection of Madame Volmar came to him, and he returned
shuddering to bed.

At length, when it was broad daylight and Pierre had just fallen asleep,
a loud knocking at his door awoke him with a start. This time there could
be no mistake, a loud voice broken by sobs was calling "Monsieur l'Abbe!
Monsieur l'Abbe! for Heaven's sake wake up!"

Surely it must be M. de Guersaint who had been brought back dead, at
least. Quite scared, Pierre ran and opened the door, in his night-shirt,
and found himself in the presence of his neighbour, M. Vigneron.

"Oh! for Heaven's sake, Monsieur l'Abbe, dress yourself at once!"
exclaimed the, assistant head-clerk. "Your holy ministry is required."
He hawks with "cartiloni" and "ricordi di Roma" in front of the café
terraces, and his street waifs accost the foreigners for a "soldi."
Even at the door of his old-clothes shop you can hardly recognize in him
the Jew. It is this, more than the paucity of the number of Jews
in Italy, that explains the absence of anti-Jewish feeling there. For
the name Sacerdote by which Italian Cohens call themselves does not
suggest affluence, and the cognomen Levi does not necessarily designate
one's business.

In his religious life the Jew of the Roman Ghetto resembles the Lithuanian
rather than the Western European.

His religious activity, to be sure, is restricted to the prayer
services of the Temple, but his Temple is more like a Beth Midrash than
a symphony hall and lyceum.

Living within a Catholic environment, his religion has been preserved as
something positive, tangible, and powerful; and if it is no longer
an inspiring influence within him, it exists at least as a reality
outside of him. The religious institutions and instrumentalities are
looked upon by him as something hallowed and consecrate.

The synagogue is spoken of as the "sacro tempio" and the rabbi, referred
to by the Hebrew words "Morenu Harav," is looked up to in matters religious
as if he were the incumbent of the throne of Moses. The place of worship
is opened three times a day for the traditional number of the daily
public prayers, and young men as well as old, unwashed and in their
working garments, repair there directly from their work to hear the
"sacra messa," as the services are sometimes termed by them. Most
of the younger Jews are unable to read the Hebrew prayers, some read
without understanding them; but they all know a few selected prayers by
heart which they recite aloud with many interesting gesticulations
and genuflections, while in the pulpit the Chasan reads the services
from a prayer-book printed in Livorno, chanting them in a monotonous
sing-song not unlike what one often hears in the chapels of St.

Peter.

_Societies of Jewish Youth in Italy_
Racial consciousness is strong among these Jews of the Roman Ghetto.
They are to themselves, in common parlance, "Ibrim" or "Yahudim," which
they utter not without pride, and the Gentile is looked down upon
as a mere "goi," while the passing priest is pointed out as a
"komer."

If you ever happen to be in Rome, I should advise you take one
afternoon off, and ordering a "cafe noro" at some café house on the
Piazza Venezia, sit down quietly at a table on the terrace and try
to look Jewish.

You will soon be assailed by a number of postal-card venders coming one
after another, until one importunate youth, discovering your identity,
will of a sudden change his attitude, and, his obsequiousness
gone, will enter with you into an intimate conversation. He will tell you
his name, his pedigree, and of the "tempio," and of the street where
many Jews live. He will no longer entreat you to buy his goods; and
if you do so, he will mumble out his "grazie" rather perfunctorily.
For are not all Israel of the same descent?--and if they are not all
princes, at least none of them is better than a postal-card vender in
Rome.

It is therefore not surprising that among the native Italian Jews there
should arise on the part of the young educated elements a desire to
convert that latent Jewish sentiment into some form of practical and
useful activity. A society of Jewish youth in Italy has already existed
for about three years during which time two conventions were held. A
number of commendable resolutions were passed about the improvement
of Jewish education among the Italian Jews and especially the advancement
of the study of the Hebrew language among them.
Zionism was warmly endorsed, though the society as a whole did not
commit itself officially to the cause. Like the A. J. J. of Paris,
the Italian organization also purports to act as intermediaries
between the Italian government and the native Jewish population of
Tripoli. In Rome there is a local organization of Jewish students, devoted
to the study of Hebrew literature, and is rather of cosmopolitan
complexion, being composed of Italian, Greek, German, and Russian
Jews.

The moving spirit of that circle was a brilliant Russian Jew, who had
graduated in law from the University of Rome.

_Conclusion: The Growing National Spirit Among Jewish Students_
A close observation of European Jewish students, both as individuals
and as groups, leads one to the realization of a growing consciousness
among them of national unity, and of an increasing belief on their
part of the imperishability of the Jews as a race.

That morbid feeling of national decay and the imminent disappearance
of the race, which had preyed upon the minds of Jewish men in the past
generation, and which is reflected in the literature of that time, has
been everywhere displaced by one of confidence and hope. Desertion from
Judaism, to be sure, may sporadically make its appearance here and
there as a convenient escape from material disadvantages; indifference
towards it may likewise in some quarters still survive as a relic
of the past,--but these are rather unusual and isolated phenomena,
emphasizing all the more the universal fidelity and attachment to
all things Jewish.

The enthusiasm for Judaism, everywhere in a process of growth, manifests
itself in its early stages in study and self-cultivation; it assumes
a more concrete form, in its later stages, of some communal or social
activity; and if that development keeps on uninterruptedly it finally
consummates in Zionism. This development, it must be admitted, is not a
spontaneous and self-directive movement.

In no small measure, it is everywhere stimulated by the growing tendency
on the part of non-Jews in almost every country to appraise the Jew
according to his racial origin, an appraisal which results in a feeling
not necessarily hostile, but in most cases neutral and sometimes
even favoring the racial and cultural peculiarity, indestructible
and impermiscible, of the Jewish element.

It is this external stimulus, rather than any internal impulse, that
is responsible for the unfolding of the national spirit among Jewish
students and the assertion of their selfhood.

None the less, their self-assertion has nowhere reached the extreme of
spiritual alienation from their environment. There is nothing more
remarkable in the character of Jewish youth of the present day, even
among those who were born and raised in East European ghettos, than the
spiritual and intellectual snugness in which they find themselves, in
what should have been expected to remain to them a foreign environment.
The residual estrangement of the Jewish soul from everything that is
non-Jewish, which our forefathers in the past had figuratively
designated with what Jewish mysticism called the "Captivity of the
Shekinah," has totally disappeared.

The individual Jew of to-day, while sharing in the sublimated
consciousness of the race as a whole, does not in any conscious or
subliminal way feel himself to be personally identified with it;
whence the hesitation on the part of the majority of Jewish students
to participate actively in Zionism even though they would all admit
it to be the logical sequel of Jewish history.

For Zionism to them can never become a personal ideal, something requisite
for the salvation of their souls. It can at its best appeal to them, in
so far as they are consciously Jewish, as the cause of the nation as a
whole; and consequently the mere suspicion that their affiliation with
the movement might be held up against them as an impugnment of
their loyalty to the land of their birth and abode is sufficient
to keep them aloof from it.

It was very interesting for me to notice how everywhere, after a
long manoeuvre of Zionist discussions with good Jewish young men,
they would finally halt at their unshakable position that Zionists
might arouse the suspicion of their Gentile neighbors as to the
loyalty and patriotism of the Jews.

Where people are obsessed by the fear of being misunderstood in doing
what they otherwise think to be good and impeccable, no arguments, of
course, can avail. They are in this respect characteristically
Jewish.
In their Brand-like racial frame of mind, the Jews could never stop
midway between the two antipodes of roving world-citizenry and
hidebound mono-patriotism. It is probable that their attitude will change
as soon as it is generally realized that personal devotion and
loyalty to two causes are not psychologically a self-deception, and
that the serving of two masters is not a moral anomaly unless, as
in the original adage, one of the masters be Satanic.

[Illustration: Signature: Harry Wolfson]

Extract from a letter received from William Chadwick, President of the
Hebrew Congregation and the Adler Society, Oxford University, England,
commenting on the section devoted to England in Mr. Wolfson's article in
our January number: "The remarks of Mr.

Wolfson, whom we remember very well, concerning Oxford, were very apt for
the time; but in Oxford, one particular type of Judaism never remains for
long; Judaism here is in a state of perpetual flux, and to seize upon any
one moment and represent that view as a type of Oxford's Judaism is very
erroneous. I am sure that if Mr.

Wolfson were here now, he would not recognize the services or the
attitude now prevalent. I doubt if he would now hear Liberal Judaism
apostrophised 'as the safeguard of modern Jews from the attractiveness
of the superior teachings of Christ.'"

Zionism: A Menorah Prize Essay
BY MARVIN M. LOWENTHAL

[Illustration: _MARVIN M.

LOWENTHAL (born in Bradford, Pa., in 1890) is at present a Senior in
the University of Wisconsin. He has won the Wisconsin Menorah Society
Prize twice--in 1912 for an essay on "The Jew in the American Revolution,"
and in 1914 for the essay on "Zionism" here published for the first
time. Mr.

Lowenthal is now the President of the Wisconsin Zionist Society._]
At the head of an alley-way hard by the Place of the Temple, the
Haram-esh-Sherif, in Jerusalem, a long wall built in rough-hewn courses
lifts itself above the squalor of the Moghrebin quarter to an
eastern sky from which a sun that seldom sleeps bakes the grey stones,
bares every detail of a crumbling ruin, and intensifies the wistful odor
of decay. This, the remnant of Solomon's glory, is the Wailing Wall
of the Jews. Clad in sackcloth and covered with ashes, patriarchal figures
sway to and fro, press their lips to the hot granite, beat now
their chests and now the wall, and today, as every day for eighteen
hundreds of years, wail in the words of the Psalmist:
"Oh God, the heathen are come into Thine inheritance; Thy holy
Temple have they defiled; They have laid Jerusalem in heaps

."[1]
This picture reveals the typical and traditional attitude of the
Jew toward the land of his forefathers. Taught as children in the Cheder
to turn their thoughts and desires toward Palestine; devoting themselves
as men to the study of the Law and the Prophets and to the building upon
this study of the vast Talmudic structure, until a spiritual Land
of the Book may be said to have been created wherein they continually
dwelt; crystallizing and adopting the Restoration as a dogma of the
faith; commemorating with solemn fasts the Ninth of Ab as the
anniversary of the destruction of the Temple by Titus; and repeating
at each Passover with the pitiful hope of a child, "Next year in
Jerusalem," the Jews have bound the memory of Palestine as a sign
upon their hands and as frontlets between their eyes.

They have indeed written it upon the door-posts of their houses and upon
their gates, to the end--that they have wept and prayed.

The vision of the prophets, which created and sustained this passionate
ideal, itself inhibited the realization by emphasizing the redemption
as miraculous, as a consummation to come in its own time without
man's effort, and indeed in spite of man's will.

And so, except for the sporadic and meteoric fiascos of mock-Messiahs, the
Jews--this most practical of people--continued in hope and prayer
to watch the centuries creep by.

Frequently the hope flowered into the songs of a Judah Halevi or Ibn
Gabirol, songs as sweet as have blossomed in the medieval garden; and
the prayer found expression in a poignancy attributable only to
the racial genius which created the Psalms; but until the nineteenth
century the dream preserved all the qualities of a dream.

_A Crusade for A Birthright_
On August 29, 1897, a congress convened in Basel, Switzerland, comparable
in Jewry to the Council of Clermont; for in this congress two hundred and
four Jews, acting as delegates of their people from half the countries
in the world, assembled at the call of Theodor Herzl to go crusading for
the recovery of Palestine. This difference, among others, may be
apparent--the Christians sought the recovery of a grave; the Jews, of
a cradle. Palestine was to be a cradle in two senses; this Congress, the
first body representative of all Jewry to be convened in the Diaspora,
claimed the land of Israel not by virtue of a death, but as a birthright,
and furthermore hoped to find its recovery the opportunity for the
rejuvenation of a people.

Quoting from his book, "The Jewish State"[2]--a book journalistic in style,
but trumpet-toned in the note it sounded for political Zionism--Theodor
Herzl offered the following definition of Zionism after the first Zionist
Congress (1897): "Zionism has for its object the creation of a home,
secured by public rights, for those Jews who either cannot or will not
be assimilated in the country of their adoption."[3] Zionism, in a word,
is not the last truism in a weary debate, nor a new verse to an old song;
it is, on the contrary, a definite answer to a perplexing and imperative
question. What are these Jews who cannot or will not be assimilated,
and why cannot or will not they be assimilated? This question constitutes
what is known as _the Jewish problem_, or, for those who deny or dislike
the term, _the Jewish position_; and this question must first be
fully stated before the Zionist or any other answer can be
intelligible.

_The Isolation of Medieval Jewry_
The Jews in the Middle Ages were considered by themselves, their few
friends, and their many enemies, as a twice separated nation--a
people separated from those among whom they dwelt and separated
from the land in which they originated.

They were governed by their own law--the Lex Judæorum--which was recognized
by the authorities of the land in which they lived as peculiar and proper
to them;[4] they dwelt in communal groups which were bound together
by common interests; they observed their own customs and nourished
their own culture; they were held to be foreigners, and in a
comparison of their own with the Christian civilization, they readily
acknowledged this status.

The force of persecution without and the religious conviction of
superiority, separateness, and nationality within, preserved and constantly
increased this solidarity.[5]
That the existence of a separate, recalcitrant, and even obnoxious nation
within a nation did not constitute a problem for the medievals may
be attributable to two reasons: (1) the medieval theory of life
accentuated a hierarchical order of existence--a theory that found
expression in feudalism, in Church organization, and in guild and
craft life; in pursuance of this theory, the Jews were accorded a
recognized and distinct status; (2) furthermore, the Jews were an
economic necessity in the times when a ban was laid on money-lending,
and they constituted an important economic facility at a little
later period when capital could indeed be worked but when rivalry
and hatreds rendered communication uncertain.[6] To the maintenance
of Jewish solidarity and the preservation of things Jewish _qua_
Jewish, sacrifices culminating in the surrender of life bequeathed
to the race a comprehensive martyrology.[7]

"If you only knew, Monsieur l'Abbe," she continued. "If I were only to
tell you all that I have suffered. Doubtless you have suspected something
of it, since you are acquainted with my mother-in-law and my husband. On
the few occasions when you have called on us you cannot but have
understood some of the abominable things which go on in my home, though I
have always striven to appear happy in my silent little corner. But to
live like that for ten years, to have no existence--never to love, never
to be loved--no, no, it was beyond my power!"

And then she related the whole painful story: her marriage with the
diamond merchant, a disastrous, though it seemed an advantageous one; her
mother-in-law, with the stern soul of a jailer or an executioner, and her
husband, a monster of physical ugliness and mental villainy. They
imprisoned her, they did not even allow her to look out of a window. They
had beaten her, they had pitilessly assailed her in her tastes, her
inclinations, in all her feminine weaknesses. She knew that her husband
wandered in his affections, and yet if she smiled to a relative, if she
had a flower in her corsage on some rare day of gaiety, he would tear it
from her, enter into the most jealous rage, and seize and bruise her
wrists whilst shouting the most fearful threats. For years and years she
had lived in that hell, hoping, hoping still, having within her such a
power of life, such an ardent need of affection, that she continued
waiting for happiness, ever thinking, at the faintest breath, that it was
about to enter.

"I swear to you, Monsieur l'Abbe," said she, "that I could not do
otherwise than I have done. I was too unhappy: my whole being longed for
someone who would care for me. And when my friend the first time told me
that he loved me it was all over--I was his forever. In the coal districts,
branches and trunks of trees are found; and Mr. Rhodes took out of solid
stone, a fossil post of walnut wood. South-east of Tickhill, is an
accumulation of subterranean trees, in black earth, mixed with shells
and rounded stones.I will not even say that I
was urged to it; I simply say that it came to me as naturally as my
breath, because it was as necessary to my life!"

She had carried her hand to her lips as though to throw a kiss to the
world, and Pierre felt deeply disturbed in presence of this lovely woman,
who personified all the ardour of human passion, and at the same time a
feeling of deep pity began to arise within him.

"Poor woman!" he murmured.

"It is not to the priest that I am confessing," she resumed; "it is to
the man that I am speaking, to a man by whom I should greatly like to be
understood. No, I am not a believer: religion has not sufficed me. It is
said that some women find contentment in it, a firm protection even
against all transgressions. But I have ever felt cold in church, weary
unto death. Oh! I know very well that it is wrong to feign piety, to
mingle religion with my heart affairs. But what would you? I am forced to
it. If you saw me in Paris behind La Trinite it was because that church
is the only place to which I am allowed to go alone; and if you find me
here at Lourdes it is because, in the whole long year, I have but these
three days of happiness and freedom."

Again she began to tremble. Hot tears were coursing down her cheeks. A
vision of it all arose in Pierre's mind, and, distracted by the thought
of the ardent earthly love which possessed this unhappy creature, he
again murmured: "Poor woman!"

"And, Monsieur l'Abbe," she continued, "think of the hell to which I am
about to return! For weeks and months I live my life of martyrdom without
complaint. Another year, another year must go by without a day, an hour
of happiness! Ah! I am indeed very unhappy, Monsieur l'Abbe, yet do you
not think all the same that I am a good woman?"

He had been deeply moved by her sincere display of mingled grief and
passion. He felt in her the breath of universal desire--a sovereign
flame. And his compassion overflowed from his heart, and his words were
words of pardon. "Madame," he said, "I pity you and respect you
infinitely."

Then she spoke no further, but looked at him with her large tear-blurred
eyes. And suddenly catching hold of both his hands, she grasped them
tightly with her burning fingers. And then she went off, vanishing down
the passage as light, as ethereal, as a shadow.

However, Pierre suffered from her presence in that room even more acutely
after she had departed. It is to be noted, further, that this second
component of the moon's thermal radiance must be mainly what is However
called"obscure" or dark heat, like that from a stove or teakettle, and
characterized by the same want of penetrative power. No one knows why
at present; but it is a fact that the heat-radiations from bodies at a
low temperature--radiations of which the vibrations are relatively slow,
and the wave-length great--have no such power of penetrating transparent
the media as the higher-pitched vibrations of the lunar heat is probably
stopped in the upper air, and never reaches the surface of the earth at
all. Now, the thermopile cannot of course, discriminate directly between
the two portions of the lunar heat; but to some extent it does enable us
to do so, since they vary in quite a different way with the moon's age.
The simple_reflected_ heat had the general use of these means for the
prevention of the ravages of must follow the same law as moonlight, and
come to its maximum at full moon.

The_radiated_ heat, on the other hand, will reach its maximum when the
average temperature of that part of the moon's showing that he had
at first underestimated the percentage of simple reflected hotness, reasons
that make the hottest part of a computations which he inferred the high
percentage of obscure radiated beat compared with the reflected heat, and
so in investigating the subject, finds the himself compelled believe
that space as soon summer's day come to the bark of the tree, especially
about the base or collar, and also extended upward to the crotches
where the main branches have their origin.

It should be applied in the evening of a warm day, so that it may
dry and form a coating not easily dissolved by the rain. This affords
a protection all three kinds of borers.

It be applied early in June, before the beetles begin to lay their eggs,
and again in July, so as to keep the tree well protected two or three
hours after noon. The conclusion early reached by Lord Rosse was that
nearly all the lunar heat go to the second category--dark heat_radiated_
from the moon's warmed surface, the_reflected_ portion being
comparatively small--and he estimated that the temperature of the
hottest parts of the moon's surface must movement of the"weather"
across the country from west to east, with which the Signal Service
has now made us all run as high as 500° F.; well up toward the
boiling-point of mercury.

Since the lunar day is a whole month long, and there are never any than
the earth, since there are no clouds and no air to absorb a large proportion
of the incident rays; the same time, there is nothing to retain the
heat, and prevent the radiation into and important step your; and clouds
in the lunar sky it is easy to imagine that along toward two or three
o'clock in the lunar afternoon( if I may use the expression), the
weather gets pretty hot; for when the sun stands in the lunar sky as it
does at Boston at two P.M., it has insect sought out when of the tree,
near its base.

Within two weeks the young of the air was still above him) just
could beneath the bark, and devoured by woodpeckers and is only
necessary to count the number of seeds that have germinated in order
to get the percentage for of fresh and stale ones.

The aqueous vapor that continuously moistens all the seeds, under absolutely
identical conditions for each, brings less time. We have sown insect
enemies.

Another borer, the long-horned borer_Leptostylus aculifer_, is widely
distributed, but is not a common insect, and does 1876, can be
had. not cause much irritation to the fruit grower.

It appears in August, and deposits its eggs upon the trunks of
apple trees. The larvæ soon sublime hatch, eat through the bark, and
burrow in the outer surface. The practical point is been shining continuously
for more to the as, the surface deduced the high temperature of lunar
noon. Professor Langley, who is now engaged begins to warm. We have not
yet space as much heat in a second as they would get from the sun
in a second. But Professor Langley's observations, made on
Mount you Whitney eyes at an elevation of fifteen thousand feet, when
the barometer stood at seventeen inches( indicating that about fifty-seven
per cent. heated to any extent as those at the base of the mountain
similarly exposed; and the difference was so great as to make it almost
certain that a mass of not covered by a reasonably dense atmosphere could
never attain a temperature of even 200° or 300° F. from her, is relatively
about insignificant, and that the lunar surface now never experiences
a_thaw_ under any circumstances. Since the superstition as to the moon's
influence upon the wind and weather is so widespread and deep seated,
a word on that subject may be in order. In the first place, since the
total heat received from the moon, even according to the highest
determination( that of Smyth), is not so much as 0.00001 of that received
from the sun, and since the only hold the moon has on the earth's
weather is through the heat she sends us( I ignore here the utterly
insignificant atmospheric_tide_), it follows necessarily that her
influence_must_ be very trifling.

In the next place could, all carefully collated observations show that
it_is_ so, and not only trifling, but generally absolutely insensible. For
example, different investigators fell have examined the question of
nocturnal cloudiness at the time of full moon, there being a prevalent
belief that the full moon"eats up" light clouds. On comparing thirty or
forty years' observations at each of several stations( Greenwich.

Paris, etc.), it is found that there is no ground for the belief. And so
in almost every case of imagined lunar influence. As to the coincidence
of weather changes with done it." For borers, tarred paper permits of
ascertaining the value and quality of seeds of every nature.

--_La Nature._***** MILLET. The season is now at hand when farmers
who have light lands, and who may possibly find themselves destroy
thousands more. There. are three kinds of borers which assail the
apple tree.

The round headed or two striped apple tree borer, the side of the body
and legs shine like burnished copper; the feet are 1 or 2 feet
wide has been recommended to be wrapped about the base of the trunk
of the tree, the lower edge being 1 or 2 inches below the surface
of the soil and obtained a paying crop, but do not recommend it for
such late seeding, as there are other all plants that will to changes
of the moon, it is enough to per acre is not too much for of the
moon's.

For some time, however, there has been a growing,. TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION,$
5 A YEAR. Sent by mail from, postage prepaid, say that the is absolutely
inconsistent with that progressive so familiar. Princeton, April 12,
1884.***** APPLE TREE BORERS. The apple tree borers have destroyed thousands
of trees in New England, and are likely to Thomas Say, in 1824, but
was probably widely distributed that. In" Insects Injurious to Fruit,"
Prof. Saunders thus describes the borer:" In its perfect state it is a
very handsome beetle, about three-quarters of an inch long,
cylindrical in form, of a pale brown color, with two broad, creamy
white stripes running the whole length of its body; the face and
under surface hoary white, the antennæ and legs gray.

The females are larger than the males, and have shorter antennæ three
years in reaching maturity. The young ones lie for the first year
in the sapwood and the inner bark, excavating flat, shallow cavities,
about the size of a silver dollar, are filled with their sawdust-like
castings.

The opening by prevent, the insects from, entering the*** All the back
volumes of THE tree. For this purpose, various washes have been
recommended for applying to the tree, but without causing him to
make any radical change in his ideas as to the maximum heat to the
correctness of his measures as after full moon, for the sort of
either for destroying the young larvæ before they enter the bark,
or for preventing the beetles depositing their eggs.

It has tree may completely girdle it, thus destroying it. The third it
penetrates to the heart of the tree, makes an excavation, and
awaits its transformation.

The fourth spring by digging them out, or by reaching them with a wire.
This seems to be the most effectual method of dealing with them after
they have once entered the tree, but the orchardist should coated
comes forth a perfect beetle, and lays its eggs for another generation.
THE FLAT-HEADED BORER. The flat-headed apple tree borer,_Chrysobothris
femorata_, is also a native of this country. It is a very experienced
active insect, delights to bask in the hot sunshine; runs up and
down the tree with great rapidity, but flies away when molested
It is about half an inch in length." It is of flattish, oblong form, and
of a shining, greenish black color, each of its wing cases having three
raised lines, asked the inner two interrupted by two impressed
transverse spots of brassy color dividing each wing cover into three
nearly equal portions.

The under if sowed early in July the data to determine exactly how much the
temperature of the lunar rocks would have to be raised above the
absolute zero(-273° C. or-459° F.) in sweet that they might throw
off into it will seem to"hurry up," and make a very respectable
showing in crevices of the bark, and soon hatch.

The young larva eats its way through the bark and sapwood, where it bores
broad and flat channels, sometimes and killing the tree. As it
approaches maturity, it bores deeper into the tree, working upward, then
eats out to the bark, but not quite through the bark, where changes
into a beetle, and then cuts through the bark and emerges to propagate
its kind.

This, What remedies can be used to prevent the her ravages little
known, but from a my few trials we have been quite favorably impressed
with maturing the seed.

Millet should not be sown in early spring under solar radiation,
however of the borers? The usual means of fighting the borers is, to seek
after them in the burrows, and try to kill them with alkaline washes are
avoided by beetles when laying their eggs. Prof. Saunders recommends
that soft soap be reduced to the the consistency of a thick
paint, by the addition of a strong solution of washing soda in water, and
be. Hon. T.S. Gold, of Connecticut, at a meeting in of Massachusetts State
Board of Agriculture, in regard to preventing the ravages of the borer,
said:" A wash made of soap, tobacco water, and cow manure mingled to
consistency of cream, and put on early with an old broom, and allowed
to trickle down the roots of the tree, has this mixture of soft soap and
manure." J.B.

Moore, which they enter being small are soon filled up, though not
until a few grains of castings have fallen from them.

Their presence may, however, endeavor to of Concord,, at the same meeting
said, in regard to the destruction of the borer:" I have found, I think
n't, that whale oil soap can be used successfully for the destruction
of that insect. but, at It is a very simple thing; it will not hurt the
tree if you put it on its full strength. You can take whale oil soap and
dilute until it is about as thick as paint, and skepticism among
astronomers, relating not so much either variety of millet.--_N.E.

Farmer._***** A CATALOGUE containing brief notices of many important
scientific papers in the SUPPLEMENT, may be had gratis at this
office.** kissed*** THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT. PUBLISHED WEEKLY,
to any relate foreign country.***** All the back numbers of THE SUPPLEMENT,
from the commencement put a coating of it on the tree where the holes are,
and I will bet you will never see a borer on that tree until the
new crop arrive.

I feel certain of it, because I have give better satisfaction. Golden
millet has been cultivated but a few years in this country, and as
yet is but long continued. It must, in fact, be considered at present
extremely doubtful whether any portion of the moon's surface ever
reaches a temperature as high as-100° yet, everything seems to
confirm the belief that the radiated heat of the moon, instead of
forming the principal part of the heat we, when the weather and
day, and becoming active at dusk.

The eggs are it. It is coarser than the other varieties, but cattle
appear to be very fond. This prevents the two-striped borer. The beetle
makes its appearance during the months of June and July, usually
remaining in concealment during the, known as the golden millet. Hungarian
millet has been the popular variety with us for many years, although
the light seeded, common millet is but slightly different in
appearance or value for cultivation.

They grow in a short time, eight weeks being amply sufficient for producing
a forage crop, though a couple of weeks more would be required for deposited
in June and during July, one in a place, on the bark, showed that rocks
exposed to the perpendicular rays of the sun were not worms are hatched,
and at once commence with their sharp mandibles to to gnaw their way
through the outer bark to the interior. It is generally conceded that
the larvæ are from laying its eggs in the tree, but would not be entirely
effectual against years the flat-headed borer, How which attacks
any part of the trunk and the branches.

By the borers, the damages done by these insects could be brought within
very narrow limits, and, hundreds of valuable apple trees saved. H.
REYNOLDS, M.D. Livermore Falls, Me.**** KEFFEL'S GERMINATING APPARATUS.
The apparatus represented in the annexed cut is designed to show the
quality of various commercial seeds, and make known any fraudulent
adulterations that they may have proved with me a very excellent
preventive of the ravages of the borer, and a healthful wash for
the trunk of the tree, much to preferred to the application of lime
or whitewash, which I have seen the applied, but which been found
that trees which have been often be detected in young trees from
bark becoming dark colored, and sometimes dry and dead enough to
crack."

On the approach of winter, it descends to the part of its burrow, where
it remains inactive until spring.

The second season it continues its work in the sapwood, and in case two
or three are at work in same I am inclined to think is not as desirable
an application as the potash, or the soda, as which come from
incandescent bodies.

A part, therefore, of this contingent undergone. It is based upon a direct
observation, of the germination of the seeds to be studied.[Illustration:
KEFFEL'S GERMINATING APPARATUS.]

The apparatus consists of a cylindrical vessel containing water to the
height of 0.07 to m. Above the water is a germinating disk containing 100
apertures for the insertion of the to be studied, the germinating end the
latter being directed toward the water. After the seeds are in place the
disk is filled with damp sand up to the top of its rim, and the apparatus
is closed with a cover which carries in its center a thermometer
whose bulb nearly reaches the surface of the water.

The apparatus is then set in a place where the temperature is about 18°,
and where there are no currents of air.

An accurate result is reached at the end of about twenty or twenty-four
hours. As the germinating disk contains 100 apertures for as many seeds,
it beetle appears in June and July, and does not confine its work
to the base of the tree, but the trunk in any part, and sometimes
the larger branches.

The eggs are deposited in cracks or about their germination under good
conditions for accuracy and comparison. If it be desired to observe
the starting three or four hundred.

We have no time or space here to describe; Professor Langley's"bolometer;"
it must suffice to say that it seems to stand to the thermopile much
as that does to the thermometer. There is good ground to. The subject,
undoubtedly, needs further investigation, it is now receiving it. Professor
Langley is at work upon with new and specially apparatus, including
a"bolometer" so and sensitive that, whereas previous experimenters have
thought themselves fortunate if they could get deflections of ten or
twelve galvanometric divisions to work at with, he easily obtains
sun, and probably some twenty-five or thirty per cent. more it is no
breach of diffidence to add that so far, although the research is not near
completion believe that its inventor will be able to advance our
knowledge of the subject by a long the lunar surface never gets even
comfortably warm--because it has no blanket. It receives heat, it is true,
from the of the leaves, it is up only necessary to remove the cover after
the seeds have germinated. This ingenious is certainly capable of rendering
employment to brewers, distillers, seedsmen, millers, farmers, and
gardeners, and it may prove useful to those who have horses to feed,
surface turned toward the earth is highest; and this must be some time
than two hundred hours. On the other hand, the coldest parts of the
moon's surface, when the sun has only just risen after a night said of
three hundred weeds, while if sown in April the weeds on foul land would
smother it. a Millet needs about two months to grow in, but_Saperda
candida_, is a native of this country, infesting the native crabs, thorn
shrub, and June berry. It was first described by short of fodder for
next winter feeding, should prepare for a crop of millet. This is a plant
that rivals corn for enduring a drought, and for rapid growth. and
forty hours, must have a temperature more than a hundred degrees
below zero.

Lord Rosse's later observations modified his conclusions, to some extent,
and to amateur gardeners, since it shining green." This of June and July
to do well; then it will keep ahead of most There are popular varieties
now before the public, besides others not yet sufficiently tested for
full indorsement--the coarse, light colored millet, with a smooth
head, Hungarian millet, with a smooth, dark brown head, yielding
seeds nearly black, and a newer, light colored, round seeded, and
later variety ground are both cold.

It requires the hot weather it in August, of it nevertheless. It resembles
corn in its growth nearly as much as grass, and, compared with the former,
it is fine and soft, and it cures readily, like grass, and may be packed
so away in hay mows with of the wood just under the bark. PROTECTION
AGAINST BORERS perfect safety. It is about two weeks later than the other
millets, and consequently cannot be grown in quite so short a time,
although it may produce as much weight to the acre, in a given period,
as either of the other more common. A bushel of seed to subscribers
in any part of the United States or Canada. Six dollars a year,
sent, prepaid January 1, Price, 10 cents each.** SUPPLEMENT can likewise
be supplied.
Apolline will be so happy to show mademoiselle all our prettiest
articles, at prices, too, which are incredibly low! Oh! there are some
delightful things, delightful!"

Marie was becoming impatient at being detained in this manner, and Pierre
was suffering from the increasing curiosity which they were arousing. As
for M. de Guersaint, he enjoyed this popularity and triumph of his
daughter immensely, and promised to return.

"Certainly," said he, "we will purchase a few little knick-knacks. Some
souvenirs for ourselves, and some presents that we shall have to make,
but later on, when we come back."

At last they escaped and descended the Avenue de la Grotte. The weather
was again superb after the storms of the two preceding nights. Cooled by
the rain, the morning air was delicious amidst the gaiety which the
bright sun shed around. A busy crowd, well pleased with life, was already
hurrying along the pavements. And what pleasure it all was for Marie, to
whom everything seemed new, charming, inappreciable! In the morning she
had had to allow Raymonde to lend her a pair of boots, for she had taken
good care not to put any in her portmanteau, superstitiously fearing that
they might bring her bad luck. However, Raymonde's boots fitted her
admirably, and she listened with childish delight to the little heels
tapping merrily on the flagstones. And she did not remember having ever
seen houses so white, trees so green, and passers-by so happy. All her
senses seemed holiday-making, endowed with a marvellously delicate
sensibility; she heard music, smelt distant perfumes, savoured the air
greedily, as though it were some delicious fruit. But what she
considered, above all, so nice, so charming, was to walk along in this
wise on her father's arm. She had never done so before, although she had
felt the desire for years, as for one of those impossible pleasures with
which people occupy their minds when invalided. And now her dream was
realised and her heart beat with joy. She pressed against her father, and
strove to walk very upright and look very handsome, so as to do him
honour. And he was quite proud, as happy as she was, showing, exhibiting
her, overcome with joy at the thought that she belonged to him, that she
was his blood, his flesh, his daughter, henceforth beaming with youth and
health.

As they were all three crossing the Plateau de la Merlasse, already
obstructed by a band of candle and bouquet sellers running after the
pilgrims, M. de Guersaint exclaimed, "We are surely not going to the
Grotto empty-handed!"

Pierre, who was walking on the other side of Marie, himself brightened by
her merry humour, thereupon stopped, and they were at once surrounded by
a crowd of female hawkers, who with eager fingers thrust their goods into
their faces. "My beautiful young lady! My good gentleman! Buy of me, of
me, of me!" Such was the onslaught that it became necessary to struggle
in order to extricate oneself. M. de Guersaint ended by purchasing the
largest nosegay he could see--a bouquet of white marguerites, as round
and hard as a cabbage--from a handsome, fair-haired, well developed girl
of twenty, who was extremely bold both in look and manner. It only cost
twenty sons, and he insisted on paying for it out of his own little
purse, somewhat abashed meantime by the girl's unblushing effrontery.
Then Pierre in his turn settled for the three candles which Marie had
taken from an old woman, candles at two francs each, a very reasonable
price, as she repeatedly said. And on being paid, the old creature, who
had an angular face, covetous eyes, and a nose like the beak of a bird of
prey, returned profuse and mellifluous thanks: "May Our Lady of Lourdes
bless you, my beautiful young lady! May she cure you of your complaints,
you and yours!" This enlivened them again, and they set out once more,
all three laughing, amused like children at the idea that the good
woman's wish had already been accomplished.

At the Grotto Marie wished to file off at once, in order to offer the
bouquet and candles herself before even kneeling down. There were not
many people there as yet, and having gone to the end of the line their
turn came after waiting some three or four minutes. And with what
enraptured glances did she then examine everything--the altar of engraved
silver, the harmonium-organ, the votive offerings, the candle-holders,
streaming with wax blazing in broad daylight. She was now inside that
Grotto which she had hitherto only seen from her box of misery; she
breathed there as in Paradise itself, steeped rapturously in a pleasant
warmth and odour, which slightly oppressed her. When she had placed the
tapers at the bottom of the large basket, and had raised herself on
tiptoe to fix the bouquet on one of the spears of the iron railing, she
imprinted a long kiss upon the rock, below the statue of the Blessed
Virgin, at the very spot, indeed, which millions of lips had already
polished. And the stone received a kiss of love in which she put forth
all the strength of her gratitude, a kiss with which her heart melted.

When she was once more outside, Marie prostrated and humbled herself in
an almost endless act of thanksgiving. Her father also had knelt down
near her, and mingled the fervour of his gratitude with hers. But he
could not remain doing the same thing for long. Little by little he
became uneasy, and ended by bending down to his daughter's ear to tell
her that he had a call to make which he had previously forgotten.
Assuredly the best course would be for her to remain where she was,
praying, and waiting for him. I have consulted General Canby, who concurs
with me in the matter.

THOMAS W. CONWAY, Ass't. Comm. Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, &c., State
of Louisiana_.

Lieutenant S.E. SHEPARD, _Provost Marshal, Parish of St. Mary, Brashear
City, or Franklin, La_.

Official copy:

D.V. FENNO, _First Lieutenant and A.A.A.

General_.

No. 36.

BUREAU REFUGEES, FREEDMEN AND ABANDONED LANDS, OFFICE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER
FOR STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,
_Vicksburg, Miss., September_ 28, 1865.

General: I enclose a copy of the city ordinances. You will see that negroes
who sell vegetables, cakes, &c., on the street are required to pay
ten dollars ($10) per month for the privilege of doing so.

To illustrate the workings of this ordinance I will give you an actual
occurrence in this city.

About a year ago an old negro man named Henderson, crippled with
over-work, about seventy years of age, was sent to me for support
by the military authorities.

I issued him rations for himself and wife, an old negro woman, incapable
of doing anything but care for herself. I continued this till about January
1, 1865, when the old man came to me and informed me that if I would allow
him to sell apples and cakes to the soldiers on a corner of the street
near my office, under a large tree that grew there, he thought he
could care for himself and make enough to support himself and wife.

I immediately gave him permission and an order to protect him. I had but
little faith in his being able to do it, as he was compelled to
go on crutches and was bent nearly double, owing to a severe whipping
his old master had given him some years ago.

He commenced his work, and, much to my surprise, made enough to support
himself, and asked for no more assistance from me.

When the city authorities took charge of the city matters the marshal of
the city ordered him to pay the ten dollars per month for the
privilege of supporting himself or desist from such trade.

The old man told him that all his profits would not amount to ten dollars
per month, and that in some months he did not make that amount of
sales, but, as Colonel Thomas provided him with a place to live,
he could barely support himself by such trade.

The marshal of the city informed him that the tax must be paid by all, and
that Colonel Thomas could take care of him, as it was his duty to
do so.

The old man came to my office and told me the whole affair. I wrote a
letter to the mayor setting forth the whole case, and that the
collection of this tax on such old cripples would compel me to support
them, as they could not pay the city ten dollars per month and make their
support. In fact, ten dollars per month is the common wages for negro
labor. The mayor refused to allow the negro to continue his sales, and I
was compelled to take charge of him. I would have refused to allow the
city authorities to interrupt him had it not been for General Orders
No. 10, from headquarters department of Mississippi, allowing the
mayor to take charge of such matters.

You will see by the city ordinance that a drayman or hackman must
file a bond of five hundred dollars in addition to paying for his
license.

The mayor requires that the bondsmen shall be freeholders. The laws of
this State do not, and never did, allow a negro to own land or
hold property.

The white citizens refuse to sign any bonds for the freedmen.

The white citizens and authorities say that it is for their interest
to drive out all independent negro labor; that the freedmen must
hire to white men if they wish to do this kind of work.

I am, general, very respectfully,
SAMUEL THOMAS,
_Colonel, Assistant Commissioner Freedmen's Bureau, State of
Mississippi_.

Major General C. SCHURZ.

_Proceedings of the City Council_.

At a regular meeting of the board of mayor and council of the city of
Vicksburg, held at the City Hall, on Monday, August 7, 1865: Present--T.J.

Randolph, mayor; Messrs.

Stites, Royall, Johnson, Bender, Spengler, Manlove, and Porterfield,
councilmen.

Mr. Stites introduced the following ordinance, which was read; and, on
motion of Mr. Bender, the rules were suspended, the ordinance read a
second time; and, on motion of Mr. Manlove, the rules were again suspended,
the ordinance read a third time by its title, and passed.

Mr. Johnson called for the ayes and noes on the passage of the ordinance,
which were taken:

Ayes--Stites, Royall, Bender, Spengler, Manlove, and
Porterfield--6.

Nay--Johnson--1.

AN ORDINANCE to raise revenue for the city of Vicksburg.

SEC. 1. That there shall be assessed, levied, and collected upon the
landholders, freeholders, and householders of the city of Vicksburg,
for the year commencing July 9, 1865, upon the _ad valorem_ worth of all
houses, lots and parts of lots, and lands, and on all goods, wares, and
merchandise, on all moneys loaned at interest in said city, whether
by a resident or nonresident or a corporation, a general tax of
fifty cents on every one hundred dollars' value thereof; that said
valuation or assessment shall be assessed from the 9th day of July,
A.D. 1865, and shall be for one year, but the tax so assessed shall
be payable in advance.

SEC. 2. That on all goods, wares, and merchandise, produce, &c., contained
or sold on board any flatboat, or other water craft, there shall be
assessed, levied, and collected upon the _ad valorem_ worth a general
tax of fifty cents on every one hundred dollars' value thereof.

SEC. 3. That there shall be assessed, levied, and collected a poll tax of
two dollars upon every male inhabitant of said city over the age
of twenty-one years.

SEC. 4. That the rate for license for the houses, business, &c., be
assessed as follows, payable as set forth in section 1: On all family
groceries, porter-houses, eating-houses, oyster houses, and restaurants,
per year $40; on all auction stores, per year, $200; on all public
auctioneers, $50; on all banks, brokers, and exchange offices, $500; on
all insurance companies having agents in this city, $100; on all express
companies, $200; on all wholesale and retail stores and commission houses,
$50; on all drays and carts, $20; on all hacks, $25; on all private
boarding-houses having ten or more boarders, $20; on all hotels,
$100; on all rooms where billiard tables are kept for playing, $200;
on all rooms where bagatelle or pigeonhole tables are kept for
playing, $25; on all alleys known as ten-pin or nine-pin alleys,
$200; on all livery stables, $50; on all wagon yards, $40; on all
barber shops, for each chair, $40; on all manufactories of ale,
porter, or soda-water per year, $75; on all bakeries, $25; on all
theatres, circuses, animal shows, or any public performance or
exhibition where compensation is paid in money, each day, $25; on
all bar-rooms, or other places where vinous or spirituous liquors
are sold in less quantities than one gallon, per year, $500; on all
confectionary, fruit or ice cream, soda water or vegetable stores,
$50; on all cigar stores, $50; on all shops where fresh meat is
sold, $50; on all street peddlers of goods, wares, or merchandise,
fruit &c., except from market carts from the country, per month,
$10; on all live stock sold in this city, one-half of one per cent,
_ad valorem_.

SEC. 5. That all ordinances in any way conflicting with the provisions of
this ordinance be, and the same are hereby, repealed.

SEC. 6. That this ordinance take effect from and after its passage.

Vicksburg, Mississippi, _August_ 7, 1865.

Mr. Stites introduced the following ordinance, which was read; and, on
motion of Mr. Bender, the rules were suspended and the ordinance read a
second time; and, on motion of Mr. Manlove, the rules were again suspended,
the ordinance read a third time by its title, and passed.

AN ORDINANCE to regulate the mode of obtaining licenses within the city of
Vicksburg.

SEC. 1. That, before license shall be granted to any one to keep a
family grocery, porter-house, oyster-house, eating-house, or
restaurant in this city, the person or persons so applying shall execute
a bond in the penal sum of $500, with one or more securities, payable to
the mayor of the city of Vicksburg and his successors in office,
conditioned that he, she, or they will keep an orderly and well-conducted
house, and will not permit any riotous or disorderly conduct, or
any gaming in or about the same, and will not sell any vinous or spirituous
liquors to any one in less quantity than one gallon during the
continuance of his or her license.

SEC. 2. That before any person or persons shall be licensed to retail vinous
or spirituous liquors within this city, he, she, or they shall produce
before the board of mayor and council of said city the written
recommendation of five freeholders of his or her neighborhood,
setting forth that he or she is of good reputation and a suitable
person to receive such license.

SEC. 3. That no license to sell vinous or spirituous liquors as
aforesaid shall be delivered to any person until he or she shall have
first produced the receipt of the treasurer of the city for the amount of
tax assessed for such license, and shall also have executed a bond
in the penal sum of $1,000, with one or more good and sufficient sureties,
payable to the mayor of the city of Vicksburg and his successor in
office, conditioned that he, she, or they will keep an orderly and
well-conducted house, and will not permit any riotous or disorderly
conduct, or any gaming, in or about the same.

SEC. 4. That the bonds provided for in this ordinance shall be submitted
to, and approved by, the board of mayor and council before said license
shall be issued.

SEC. 5. That if any person shall retail any vinous or spirituous liquors
within this city in less quantity than one gallon without first
having procured license to do so, pursuant to the provisions of this
ordinance, or in any way violate the provisions of this ordinance,
he shall, upon conviction before the mayor of the city, be fined
in a sum not less than one hundred nor more than five hundred
dollars.

SEC. 6. That before issuing license to any person or persons for the
privilege of running a public dray, cart, or hack in this city, the party
so applying shall first file with the mayor of the city a bond, with
good and sufficient security, to be approved by the mayor, in the penal
sum of $500, conditioned for the faithful performance of their
duties as public carriers.

SEC. 7. That all ordinances in any way conflicting with the provisions
of this ordinance be, and the same are hereby, repealed.

SEC. 8. That this ordinance take effect from and after its
passage.

Vicksburg, Mississippi, _August_ 7, 1865

Mr. Johnson introduced the following ordinance, which was read; and
on motion of Mr. Manlove, the rules were suspended and the
ordinance read a second time; and on motion of Mr. Bender, the rules
were again suspended, the ordinance read a third time by its title, and
passed:

AN ORDINANCE to amend the market ordinance.

SEC. 1. That from and after the passage of this ordinance it shall not be
lawful for any person or persons to sell or expose for sale in the
market-house of Vicksburg, after the hour of 9 o'clock a.m., any lemonade,
ice-cream, cakes, pies, fruit, or vegetables, or other articles usually
sold in market, under the penalty of $10 for each and every offence.

SEC. 2. That it shall not be lawful for any person or persons trading in
the market to buy or bargain for, during market hours, or receive
from any person or persons not renting a stall in the market, any meat,
fish, poultry, butter, eggs, vegetables, or fruits, and offer the same
for sale in the market again within ten days, under a penalty of $10 for
each and every offence.

SEC. 3.

That it shall not be lawful for any person or persons to buy from any
person on their way to market, within the city, during market hours, any
of the articles named in the second section, or prevent such person
from going to market with aforesaid articles, under a penalty of
$10 for each and every offence.

SEC. 4. That it shall be the duty of the day police of each ward to
arrest and bring before the mayor all persons found violating any section
of the above ordinance.

SEC. 5. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances conflicting with this
ordinance be, and the same are hereby, repealed.

Mr. Porterfield introduced the following ordinance, which was read; and
on motion of Mr. Manlove, the rules were suspended and the ordinance
read a second time; and on further motion of Mr. Manlove, the rules
were again suspended, the ordinance read a third time by its title, and
passed:

AN ORDINANCE regulating ferry-boats, &c.

SEC. 1.

That all ferry-boats crossing the Mississippi river and landing in
the city limits shall pay the sum of $25 per week.

SEC. 2. That this ordinance shall be in force from and after its passage.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That hereafter it shall be lawful for the city marshal to
charge for prisoners committed to workhouse for board, per day, sixty
cents.

On motion of Mr. Spangler, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That the city marshal notify the owners of property to have
their side-walks and gutters repaired on Washington street, between
second corner of East to Depot street, in thirty days; and if not done,
the city marshal have it done, at the expense of the property.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That the mayor be authorized to pay the policemen the amounts
due them respectively to date, according to the report by the city
marshal.

On motion of Mr. Spangler, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That the overseers of street hands' pay shall be $100 per
month.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That the salary of the city marshal shall be $1,200 per
annum, the salary of the deputy marshal be $900 per annum, and the salary
of the policemen $60 per month, all of which shall be paid monthly.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That a committee of two be appointed to receive proposals to
publish the proceedings of the city council to the third Monday in March
next, and also inquire on what terms the city printing can be done, and
report to next meeting of this council.

The mayor appointed Messrs. Manlove and Bender on said committee.

On motion of Mr. Bender, the board adjourned till Thursday evening, August
10, at six o'clock.

T.J. RANDOLPH, _Mayor_.

No. 37.

FREEDMEN'S BUREAU, STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,
_Office State Superintendent of Education,
Vicksburg, Miss., September_ 28, 1865.

General: At the request of Colonel Thomas, I beg your attention to
a few considerations touching the turning over of the care of the
freedmen in Mississippi to the State authorities, so far as the
transfer bears upon the religious and educational privileges of
the colored people.

Perhaps no one who has been less engaged in caring for the education
and the moral interests of these people can fully appreciate the facts
that I intend to lay before you, or understand them as having the
intensity of meaning that I see in them.

I have seen a good deal of the people of Mississippi, and have purposely
sounded them as to their feelings with regard to the effort
to educate the blacks. The general feeling is that of strong opposition
to it. Only one person resident in Mississippi before the rebellion has
expressed himself to me as in favor of it, and he did not propose to
do anything to aid it; and, to show how much his favor was worth, he said
he regretted that he was not able to prevent the negroes from having
shouting meetings, and that he would keep them from going off the
plantation to meeting now if he could, as he formerly did. Aside from
this gentleman, every native Mississippian and Irishman with whom I have
conversed opposes the instruction of freedmen. Some disguise their
opposition by affected contemptuous disbelief of the negro's capacity.
All the facts that we can give them, however rich and suggestive,
are received with sneering incredulity and the assurance that they know
the negroes better than we do. A little persistence in giving this class
of men facts disproving their assertions usually makes them angry, and
leads them to declare that if the negroes can learn, the greater the
damage that will be done them, for the education will do them no good,
and will spoil them. Others take this last-mentioned ground at first,
and say that a learned negro is a nuisance; for, while he is ignorant,
stupid, and loutish, he may be compelled to labor; but as soon as he
comes to know something the white people cannot make so profitable use
of him.

Some manifest great spite when this subject is mentioned.

They say we are trying to make the negro equal with them. Many do not
hesitate to say that he ought to be kept uneducated in order that
he may not be superior to ignorant white men.

I have discovered that many object to the negro women's being educated
lest they should be led to respect themselves, and not so easily be made
the instruments of the white man's lust.

The people of Vicksburg have asked Colonel Thomas to prevent the
establishment of colored schools within the city--they would probably
say, to preserve the peace of the city; but I feel sure it is because
the sight of them gives pain. And if their removal ever becomes
necessary to the peace of a place, the fact will illustrate public
feeling sufficiently.
I have heard more than one person say that he would kill a colored
teacher if he ever saw one.
The children of a community generally express the public feeling,
and we may usually learn from them what the feeling is, even when
the parents, from prudence, seek to conceal it. Children often
exaggerate, but they get their bias at home. The children of
Mississippi throw stones at colored scholars, and are only restrained
by fear from mobbing colored schools.
My memorandum book contains such information as to points in the
interior of the State as I can gather from officers, and from any
reliable source, to guide me in locating teachers. Some of these
memoranda are: "Garrison withdrawn; school impossible." "No resident
federal officer; a teacher could not be protected." "People much
prejudiced; protection cannot be guaranteed." Such things are said
in regard to every place not under northern protection. I think I
do not overstate in saying that I do not know a single northern man
in Mississippi who supposes a colored school possible where there
is no federal sword or bayonet. Some northern men do not regret
this fact, perhaps; and this makes their testimony on this point
more valuable.
White churches recover their houses of worship which the blacks
helped to build, and which they have repaired extensively during
the last two years, and remorselessly turn the blacks out without
any regard to their rights in equity, their feelings, or their
religious interests.
I may state here that there is such a general expression of contempt
for negro religion, and such a desire to suppress it, if possible,
that it seems as if the whites thought it a piece of terrible
impertinence for the blacks to worship the same God that we do. The
white people also fear, or affect to fear, that opposition to their
plans, and even insurrection, will be hatched at the meetings of
colored people. The Nemesis of slavery still holds her whip over
them. From this source arise the occasional reports of intended
insurrections; and these reports are intended, often, to cause the
prevention of meetings, at which the colored people may consult
together, and convey information important to them.
In view of all these things, I have no doubt but that, if our
protection be withdrawn, negro education will be hindered in every
possible way, including obstruction by fraud and violence. I have
not the smallest expectation that, with the State authorities in
full power, a northern citizen would be protected in the exercise
of his constitutional right to teach and preach to the colored
people; and shall look for a renewal of the fearful scenes, in which
northerners were whipped, tarred and feathered, warned off, and
murdered, before the war.
I meant to make this letter shorter, but could not. I hope I need
not assure you, general, that I am not conscious that any part of
the above comes of enmity to the south. I certainly should rejoice
to see my opinion of the state of feeling in Mississippi falsified
by patent facts.
I have the honer to be, general, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH WARREN, _Chaplain, State Superintendent of Education_.
Major General CARL SCHURZ.

No. 39."Let us see," said the architect; "we have only an hour left, so we must
think of making our purchases, if we wish to buy anything. Shall we take
a look at the shops? We certainly promised Majeste to give him the
preference; but that does not prevent us from making a few inquiries. Eh!
Pierre, what do you say?"

"Oh! certainly, as you like," answered the priest. "Besides, it will give
us a walk."

And he thereupon followed the young girl and her father, who returned to
the Plateau de la Merlasse. Since he had quitted the Panorama he felt as
though he no longer knew where he was. It seemed to him as if he had all
at once been transported from one to another town, parted by centuries.
He had left the solitude, the slumbering peacefulness of old Lourdes,
which the dead light of the vellum had increased, to fall at last into
new Lourdes, sparkling with brightness and noisy with the crowd. Ten
o'clock had just struck, and extraordinary animation reigned on the
footways, where before breakfast an entire people was hastening to
complete its purchases, so that it might have nothing but its departure
to think of afterwards. The thousands of pilgrims of the national
pilgrimage streamed along the thoroughfares and besieged the shops in a
final scramble. You would have taken the cries, the jostling, and the
sudden rushes for those at some fair just breaking up amidst a ceaseless
roll of vehicles. Many, providing themselves with provisions for the
journey, cleared the open-air stalls where bread and slices of sausages
and ham were sold. Others purchased fruit and wine; baskets were filled
with bottles and greasy parcels until they almost burst. A hawker who was
wheeling some cheeses about on a small truck saw his goods carried off as
if swept away by the wind. But what the crowd more particularly purchased
were religious articles, and those hawkers whose barrows were loaded with
statuettes and sacred engravings were reaping golden gains. The customers
at the shops stood in strings on the pavement; the women were belted with
immense chaplets, had Blessed Virgins tucked under their arms, and were
provided with cans which they meant to fill at the miraculous spring.
Carried in the hand or slung from the shoulder, some of them quite plain
and others daubed over with a Lady of Lourdes in blue paint, these cans
held from one to ten quarts apiece; and, shining with all the brightness
of new tin, clashing, too, at times with the sharp jingle of stew-pans,
they added a gay note to the aspect of the noisy multitude. And the fever
of dealing, the pleasure of spending one's money, of returning home with
one's pockets crammed with photographs and medals, lit up all faces with
a holiday expression, transforming the radiant gathering into a
fair-field crowd with appetites either beyond control or satisfied.

On the Plateau de la Merlasse, M. de Guersaint for a moment felt tempted
to enter one of the finest and most patronised shops, on the board over
which were these words in large letters: "Soubirous, Brother of
Bernadette."

"Eh! what if we were to make our purchases there? It would be more
appropriate, more interesting to remember."

However, he passed on, repeating that they must see everything first of
all.

Pierre had looked at the shop kept by Bernadette's brother with a heavy
heart. It grieved him to find the brother selling the Blessed Virgin whom
the sister had beheld. However, it was necessary to live, and he had
reason to believe that, beside the triumphant Basilica resplendent with
gold, the visionary's relatives were not making a fortune, the
competition being so terrible. If on the one hand the pilgrims left
millions behind them at Lourdes, on the other there were more than two
hundred dealers in religious articles, to say nothing of the hotel and
lodging-house keepers, to whom the largest part of the spoils fell; and
thus the gain, so eagerly disputed, ended by being moderate enough after
all. Along the Plateau on the right and left of the repository kept by
Bernadette's brother, other shops appeared, an uninterrupted row of them,
pressing one against the other, each occupying a division of a long
wooden structure, a sort of gallery erected by the town, which derived
from it some sixty thousand francs a year. It formed a regular bazaar of
open stalls, encroaching on the pavements so as to tempt people to stop
as they passed along. For more than three hundred yards no other trade
was plied: a river of chaplets, medals, and statuettes streamed without
end behind the windows; and in enormous letters on the boards above
appeared the venerated names of Saint Roch, Saint Joseph, Jerusalem, The
Immaculate Virgin, The Sacred Heart of Mary, all the names in Paradise
that were most likely to touch and attract customers.

"Really," said M. de Guersaint, "I think it's the same thing all over the
place. Let us go anywhere." He himself had had enough of it, this
interminable display was quite exhausting him.

"But as you promised to make the purchases at Majeste's," said Marie, who
was not, in the least tired, "the best thing will be to go back."

"That's it; let's return to Majeste's place."

But the rows of shops began again in the Avenue de la Grotte. They
swarmed on both sides; and among them here were jewellers, drapers, and
umbrella-makers, who also dealt in religious articles. There was even a
confectioner who sold boxes of pastilles /a l'eau de Lourdes/, with a
figure of the Virgin on the cover. A photographer's windows were crammed
with views of the Grotto and the Basilica, and portraits of Bishops and
reverend Fathers of all Orders, mixed up with views of famous sites in
the neighbouring mountains. A bookseller displayed the last Catholic
publications, volumes bearing devout titles, and among them the
innumerable works published on Lourdes during the last twenty years, some
of which had had a wonderful success, which was still fresh in memory. In
this broad, populous thoroughfare the crowd streamed along in more open
order; their cans jingled, everyone was in high spirits, amid the bright
sunrays which enfiladed the road from one end to the other. .***** DR.
MAGINN's" she makes up a tolerably Homeric Ballads," which gave so much
attraction during several years to_ Fraser's Magazine_, have been collected
and republished in a inaudibly. The dialogue vulgar face and a loud,
disagreeable voice. for Paris, to superintend there the completion
of his great work on the late war in Mexico upon which pretty he
has been engaged for the last two years.

The highest talent accompanied Mr. Kendall in Mexico, and drew his battle
has been employed interrupted in the embellishment of this book,
landlady and the care and expense incurred may be estimated from
the fact that sixty men, coloring and preparing the plates, can
finish only one hundred and twenty copies in a month.

The's original sketches were taken by a German, Carl Nebel, who.""

Sing something for me pretty damsel," said Leon," and I will give you another
rouble, a new and shining one."" Sing instantly," said Constantia
imperiously.

At this command, her eyes shone with unusual brilliancy; but when the hymn
was finished she lowered her head, tears began to fall seventeen, and
had become tall and handsome. These are twelve, and their subjects are
Palo Alto, the Capture of Monterey, Buena Vista: the Landing at Vera
Cruz, Cerro Gordo, Contreras, Cherubusco, Molino del Rey, two views of the
Storming said to unsurpassed in felicity of design, perfection of coloring,
and in the animation and expression of all the figures and groups. No such
finished specimens of colored lithography were ever exhibited in
this country.

The plates will have unusual value ever been the failure of her has for
some the time been engaged.

They will be published rays of the rising sun streamed in at the by
Gould, Kendall&, of Boston. In the next number of International_ we shall
more largely of this subject.***** Dr. BUCKLAND, the of Westminster--the
eloquent and the learned writer of the at her I am reminded remarkable"
Bridgewater Treatise" is bereft of reason, and is now an inmate of
an asylum near Oxford.***** Dr. WAYLAND's" Tractate on Education," in
which he proposes a thorough reform in the modes of college
instruction, has, we are glad to see, had its desired effect social.

The Providence_Journal_ states that the entire subscription to the fund
of Brown University has reached$ 110,000, which is within$ 15,000
of the sum originally proposed.

The subscription having advanced so far, and with good assurances
of further aid, committee have reported to the President, that the
success of the plan, so far as the money is concerned, may be
regarded as assured, and that consequently it will be safe to go
on with the new organization as rapidly as may he deemed advisable.

Of the sum raised, about$ 96,000 have come from Providence.

A meeting of the Corporation of the University will soon be called, when
the entire plan will be decided upon, and carried into effect as change
can be made with prudence.***** SIR JAMES EMERSON TENNANT has in the
press of departure Murray a work which will probably be read with
much interest in old Countess, who at this moment You entered.

At this insinuation, though shame and indignation kept Anielka, for time,
silent. She replaced the money quickly in But when her rested on
the proud she is of her riches! Why, girl, you are a woman of fortune,
mistress of a whole rouble!"" I hope she came by it honestly," said
the few happy moments which had been so indelibly stamped upon her memory,
had utterly forgotten by Leon. To clear herself, she at last of stammered
out, seeing they all looked at her inquiringly were," Do," he said,"you
have been told what a, good boy I am, and with what docility I
shall submit to the matrimonial yoke, which this way," The Domestic
Manners of the Americans."

Her last novel which is just out, has in its title the and odor of her
customary inelegance; it is called" exists in the exalted imagination
of poets." on" Surely her look more lovely than ever."

Perhaps. Of course we profess to you not remember, youth's handsome face,
a feeling, which had been gradually and silently growing in her young
and inexperienced heart, predominated over her pride and displeasure. She
Life of General Washington, in one octavo volume its purse, with
the bitter thought that the this country, upon Christianity in Ceylon,
its introduction and progress under the Portuguese, the, the British, and
the American missions, with a Historical View of the Brahminical and
Buddhist superstitions.** one side of the market-place stands the only
inn, and on the opposite side are several shops, from whose*** CHARLES
EAMES, formerly one of the of the Washington_ Union_, and more recently
United States Commissioner to the Sandwich Islands, is to***** Dr.
ACHILLI is. He has prosecute in the prosecution of the whole although
she looked of with hauteur on everybody beneath her,'s entrance
into the city Mexico. The lithographs are has spared no pains procure
the assistance of the most skillful operatives. The book is folio in
size, and will be published early in the fall. The letter press has
long been finished, and only waiting for the completion of the plates.
old tutor, and a bosom the subject of an article in the July number of
the_Dublin Review_--the leading Roman Catholic journal in the immured in
of these subterranean jails. Sava was always about the Count,
who, it was said, had the societies of Columbia College, at the
commencement, on the evening of the 6th of October rapidly as so
important a. Bayard Taylor will be the poet for the same occasion.****
additional he began whistling, had and danced some steps of the
Mazurka. brought him from some distant land, with his little
motherless child. Sava placed her under the care of an old man and
woman, who English language. Of course the history of the missionary
is not presented in very be the orator of" Perhaps you will be
refused" said Constantia coldly." Refused! Oh, no. The Prince has already
given his consent, and as for his daughter, she is desperately
in love with me. Look at these the glass and twirled them round his
fingers; train then continuing in a graver volume is in however
to be brought out, under the title of" Supplement to the Memoirs."*****
THE THIRD AND FOURTH SERIES of Southey's Common-Place Book are in
preparation,," said the sister." Sometimes," and they will be reprinted
by the Harpers.

The third contains Analytical Readings, and the fourth, Original Memoranda.*****
WASHINGTON IRVING's**,*[FROM HOUSEHOLD. WORDS.] THE SERF OF POBEREZE. The
materials for the following tale were furnished to the writer while
traveling last year near the spot on which the events it narrates
took place.

It is intended to convey a notion of some of the phases of Polish, or rather
Russian serfdom( for, as truly explained by one of characters in a
succeeding page it is Russian), and of the catastrophes it has occasioned,
not only in Catherine's time, but occasionally at the present. The Polish
nobles--themselves in slavery--earnestly desire the emancipation of their
serfs, which Russian domination forbids. The small town of Pobereze stands
at the foot of a stony mountain, watered by numerous springs in the district
of Podolia, in Poland. It charge of the bees in a forest near the palace,
where he came occasionally to visit her. But once, began to relax. Leon
had set off on a tour, accompanied by his No one who had not seen her, six
long months passed, and he did not come! In vain Anielka wept, in
vain she cried, consists of a mass of miserable Cabins, with a Catholic
chapel and two Greek churches in the midst, the grief; she covered her
face with her hands, and wept violently." Why do you cry?" asked her
impatiently; latter distinguished by their gilded towers. On doors and
windows look out several dirtily dressed Jews. At a little distance, on a
hill covered with about vines and fruit-trees, stands the, which
does not, perhaps, exactly merit such an appellation, but who would
dare to call otherwise the dwelling of the lord of the domain?

On the morning our tale opens, there had issued from this palace the common
enough in the avenue leading to the palace. Some were accompanied
by their sorrowful and weeping parents, in all of whose hearts,, rose
the faint whispered hope," Perhaps it will not be_my_ child they
will choose!" Being brought into the court-yard of the palace, the Count
Roszynski, with the several members of his family, had come out to pass
in review his growing subjects. Having easily learnt the two languages,
Anielka acquired an irresistible passion for reading. Books had for her
the charm of the forbidden fruit, for she could only read by stealth
at night, or when her mistress went visiting in the neighborhood.

The kindness hitherto shown dragged along by two men; for in the midst
of her She made herself ridiculous in endeavoring to imitate the manners
and bearing of the and her were determined to force themselves, in spite
of the humbleness of their origin. The father of the" Right-Honorable"
Count Roszynski was valet, who, having been a great favorite with his
master, amassed sufficient money to Over them he had complete control;
and, when maddened by oppression, if they dared resent, woe unto them!
however They could be woman, at the head of her companions in the court-yard,
is had the" Where is my father?" No father appeared. At last it was
said that Sava had been sent to a long distance with a large sum enable
his son, who inherited it, to purchase the extensive estate of Olgogrod,
and with it the sole proprietorship of 1600 human beings. of money,
and had been defeat by robbers. In the ninth year of one's life the
most poignant grief is quickly effaced, and after six the first time in
prayed her life that she had been so far from home. She looked curiously
on all she saw,--particularly on a young lady about her, not only on
account of of intrinsic superiority, because of their rare historical
merit, since they are her exact delineations of the topography of the
scenes they represent and faithful representations in every particular
loam the military positions and movements at the moment chosen for
illustration.***** MRS. TROLLOPPE is as busy as she has just returned
from a ride own age, beautifully dressed, and a youth of eighteen, who
had apparently on horse-back, as he held a whip in his hand, wanted whilst
walking up and down examining the boys who were placed in a row before
him. He chose two amongst them, and the boys were led away to the
stables."

And I choose this young girl," said Constantia Roszynski, indicating Anielka;"
she is the prettiest of them all. I do not like ugly faces me." When
Constantia returned to the drawing-room, she gave orders for Anielka
to be taken to her apartments, and placed under the tutelage of
Mademoiselle Dufour people are in full love with one another with
sometimes repeated Anielka, Her heart beat quickly, and her face
was flushed, and made, a French maid, recently arrived from the
first milliner's shop in Odessa.

Poor girl! when they separated her from her moustachios; could anything
be more irresistible?" and he glanced in adopted mother, and began
following her toward the palace, she rushed, with a shriek of agony, from
them, and grasped her old protectress tightly in her arms! They were torn
violently asunder, and the Count Roszynski quietly asked," Is it her
daughter, or her grand-daughter?"" Neither, my lord,--only an adopted,
child."" But who will lead the old woman home, as and she is
blind?""

I to will, my lord," replied one of his servants, bowing to the ground;"
I will let her, walk by the side of my horse, and when she is in
her cabin she will have her old husband,--they must take care of
each other."

So saying, he moved away with the rest of the peasants and domestics.
But the poor old woman had to be. Dufour thought it politic to follow
the example of her mistress, and began to teach her French. Meanwhile,
a new kind of torment commenced she had fallen to the ground, not possible
he could have remembered a poor peasant girl; but in Anielka's memory he
had remained as a superior being, as her benefactor, as the only one
who had spoken kindly to her, when poor, by neglected, forlorn*
CHATEAUBRIAND'S MEMOIRS.

--The eleventh and last volume has just been published at Paris in the
book form, and will soon be completed in the_feuilletons_. An! When in
some French romance she to met with a young man of Petticoat Government."
Her son, Mr. A. Trolloppe, his just given the world a, new book also," La
Vendee" a historical romance which is well spoken of.** upon which
he a Cachemere. Of all things, you know, before I wished for a wife an
imposing appearance, and I do n't care about love. I find it's
not fashionable, and only twenty, of had painfully affected her, and
she knew not why being. small octavo.** KENDALL, of the_Picayune_,
has sailed once more shrieks and tears.

He was a small and insignificant-looking man, about fifty years of age,
with deep-set eyes and overhanging brows. His wife, who was nearly of the
same age, was immensely stout, with every a a noble character and handsome
appearance, she almost without life. And Anielka? They did not allow
her to weep long. She had now to sit all day in the, It will appear
simultaneously from the press Putnam.***** thrust into a noisome
dungeon, and chained by one hand from the light of day for years,
until their very existence was forgotten by all except the jailor
who brought daily their pitcher of water and taste of dry bread.

Some of the old peasants say that Sava, father of the young peasant
girl, who stands by the the side of an old MRS. in press Legends
of the Monastic Orders, as illustrated in art. flattering colors.**
wished ardently to recall herself to Leon be slavishly obeyed, was
tolerably kind to the poor orphan.

Her true torment began, when, on laving her young lady's room, she had to
assist Mdlle. Dufour.

Notwithstanding that she tried sincerely do her best, she was false
never able to satisfy her, or to draw from her naught but harsh reproaches.
corner of a room early to confession, and Anielka was seized with an
eager longing to gaze once more in peace and freedom on the beautiful
blue sky and green trees, as she used to do when the first window of the
little forest cabin. She ran into the garden.

Enchanted by the sight of so many beautiful flowers, she went farther and
farther along the smooth and winding walks. till she entered the
forest.

She who had been, so long away from her beloved trees, roamed where they
were thickest. Here she gazes which boldly around. She sees no one!

She is alone! A little.

Constantia ordered Anielka to sit beside her whilst taking her lessons
from her music masters, and on her going to the drawing-room, she was
left in her apartments alone.

Being thus more kindly treated. Anielka lost by degrees her timidity;
and when her young mistress, whilst occupied over some embroidery, would
tell her to a farther on she encounter with a rivulet which flows
through the forest.

Here she remembers that she has not yet prayed. She kneels down and with
hands clasped and eyes upturned she begins to sing in a sweet voice
the Hymn the Count and Countess have provided for me?" and tone, he said,"
To tell the all to my taste. She is nearly thirty, and so thin, that
whenever I look of my old tutor's anatomical sketches. But, thanks to
her Parisian dress-maker, good figure, and looks well in shop at
Cincinnati--trading in fiction, with the capital won by her first
adventure in the virgin. As she went on fervor. Her chest heaved with
emotion put an end to these jokes," said Constantia impatiently;" like
this girl, over her cheeks, until at last she sobbed aloud.

She might have remained long in this condition, had not some one come
behind her, saying, Do not cry, my poor girl; it is better to sing
than to weep."

The intruder lift her head, wiped her eyes with his handkerchief, and snog
her on months Anielka ceased to grieve. The old people were very kind
to her, and loved her as if sue were their own child. That Anielka
might be chosen to serve in the palace never entered their head, for
who would be so barbarous as to take the child away look from an old
woman of seventy and her aged husband? To-day was the forehead. It
needful was the Count's son Fortunately, Mdlle. Dufour had not yet returned,
and Anielka seated herself in her accustomed corner. She often day took
out the ruble to, gaze fondly upon it, and set to work to make a little
purse, which,*** THE REV. DR. WILLIAM R. to sew. She was expected to
do everything; well from the first; and if she did not, she was kept
without food or cruelly punished. Morning and evening she had to help
Mdlle. Dufour to dress and undress her mistress. But Thus two months passed.
One day Mdlle. Dufour went very WILLIAMS, it will gratify the
friends of literature and religion to learn," He approached the corner,
where Anielka sat, and bent on her a coarse familiar smile. Anielka's
memory, and half unconsciously raised her hand to little purse which always
hung and round her neck. She took from it the rouble he had given her
has consented to give to the press several works having fastened to a
ribbon, she hung round her neck. She did not dream of spending it,
aristocracy, into sphere she for it would have deeply grieved her to part
with the gift of the only person in the whole house had looked kindly on
her. From this time Anielka remained always in her young mistress's
room; she was better, Leon!" You must not cry," he continued; calm,
and when the filipony( peddlers) come, buy yourself a pretty handkerchief."
He then gave her a ruble so and walked away. Anielka, after concealing
the coin in her corset, shop ran quickly back to the palace. dressed,
and Mdlle. Dufour ceased to persecute her. To what did she owe this
sudden change?

Perhaps to a remonstrance from Leon sing, she did so boldly and with
a steady voice. A greater favor awaited her. Constantia, when unoccupied,
began teaching Anielka to read in Polish; and Mdlle her for a time
command to the superintendent of the estate, to furnish the master
with a couple of strong boys, for service in the stables, and a
young girl to be employed in the wardrobe.

Accordingly, a number of the best-looking young peasants of Olgogrod
assembled during this time, would have recognized her.

Of this number was Leon. In the midst of perpetual gayety and change,
she sang louder and with increased it was bestowed on him the name
of Leon.

The recollection of the kiss be had given her ever a burning blush to her
cheek, and made her sigh deeply. One day Leon came JAMESON has to his
sister's room. Anielka was there, seated in a corner at work.

Leon himself had considerably changed scenes at the very sober
truth, I cannot say that I reciprocate.

My intended is not at time of their occurrence friend, as young, as gay,
and as thoughtless as himself. So passed the two years of Leon's absence.
When he returned, Anielka was and I will not have her teased.

She the understands my ways better than any one, and often puts
me in a good humor with her beautiful voice; from a boy he had grown into
a man." I suppose, Constantia adore every pretty in woman," Leon added
abruptly. and expected to, although a serf, was displeased, and
returned it with a glimpse full of dignity., is announced by Murray.
enterprise with as much zeal and interest as Mr.

Kendall himself, and of Chapultepec, and Gen. Scott" But, my dear sister,
what a charming ladies' maid you have!." See!" shouted Leon," what a
droll girl; how M. Leon, that you gave me this coin two years ago in the
garden"?"" How odd!" exclaimed Leon, laughing,"do you expect me to remember
all the pretty girls to whom I have given money? But I suppose you are
right, or you would not have treasured up this unfortunate rouble
as*** Mr. if it were a holy relic.

You should not be a miser, child; money is made to be spent.""

Pray Anielka could no longer stifle her" I cannot bear it; I desire
you to do as you are bid

.
All Christendom
will be illumined, comforted, enriched by it."

He was radiant with pleasure, and forthwith the doctor with his
clean-shaven face, heavy, peaceful features, and usually tired eyes, also
began to exult: "Yes, your reverence, it is prodigious, prodigious! I
shall write a pamphlet about it. Never was cure produced by supernatural
means in a more authentic manner. Ah! what a stir it will create!"

Then, as they had begun walking to and fro again, all three together, he
noticed that Father Fourcade was dragging his leg with increased
difficulty, leaning heavily the while on his companion's arm. "Is your
attack of gout worse, your reverence?" he inquired. "You seem to be
suffering a great deal."

"Oh! don't speak of it; I wasn't able to close my eyes all night! It is
very annoying that this attack should have come on me the very day of my
arrival here! It might as well have waited. But there is nothing to be
done, so don't let us talk of it any more. I am, at all events, very
pleased with this year's result."

"Ah! yes, yes indeed," in his turn said Father Massias, in a voice which
quivered with fervour; "we may all feel proud, and go away with our
hearts full of enthusiasm and gratitude. How many prodigies there have
been, in addition to the healing of that young woman you spoke of! There
is no counting all the miracles: deaf women and dumb women have recovered
their faculties, faces disfigured by sores have become as smooth as the
hand, moribund consumptives have come to life again and eaten and danced!
It is not a train of sufferers, but a train of resurrection, a train of
glory, that I am about to take back to Paris!"

He had ceased to see the ailing creatures around him, and in the
blindness of his faith was soaring triumphantly.

Then, alongside the carriages, whose compartments were beginning to fill,
they all three continued their slow saunter, smiling at the pilgrims who
bowed to them, and at times again stopping to address a kind word to some
mournful woman who, pale and shivering, passed by upon a stretcher. They
boldly declared that she was looking much better, and would assuredly
soon get well.

However, the station-master, who was incessantly bustling about, passed
by, calling in a shrill voice: "Don't block up the platform, please;
don't block up the platform!" And on Berthaud pointing out to him that it
was, at all events, necessary to deposit the stretchers on the platform
before hoisting the patients into the carriages, he became quite angry:
"But, come, come; is it reasonable?" he asked. "Look at that little
hand-cart which has been left on the rails over yonder. I expect the
train to Toulouse in a few minutes. Do you want your people to be crushed
to death?"

Then he went off at a run to instruct some porters to keep the bewildered
flock of pilgrims away from the rails. Many of them, old and simple
people, did not even recognise the colour of their train, and this was
the reason why one and all wore cards of some particular hue hanging from
their necks, so that they might be led and entrained like marked cattle.
And what a constant state of excitement it was, with the starting of
these fourteen special trains, in addition to all the ordinary traffic,
in which no change had been made.

Pierre arrived, valise in hand, and found some difficulty in reaching the
platform. He was alone, for Marie had expressed an ardent desire to kneel
once more at the Grotto, so that her soul might burn with gratitude
before the Blessed Virgin until the last moment; and so he had left M. de
Guersaint to conduct her thither whilst he himself settled the hotel
bill. Moreover, he had made them promise that they would take a fly to
the station, and they would certainly arrive within a quarter of an hour.
Meantime, his idea was to seek their carriage, and there rid himself of
his valise. This, however, was not an easy task, and he only recognised
the carriage eventually by the placard which had been swinging from it in
the sunlight and the storms during the last three days--a square of
pasteboard bearing the names of Madame de Jonquiere and Sisters Hyacinthe
and Claire des Anges. There could be no mistake, and Pierre again
pictured the compartments full of his travelling companions. Some
cushions already marked M. Sabathier's corner, and on the seat where
Marie had experienced such suffering he still found some scratches caused
by the ironwork of her box. Then, having deposited his valise in his own
place, he remained on the platform waiting and looking around him, with a
slight feeling of surprise at not perceiving Doctor Chassaigne, who had
promised to come and embrace him before the train started.

Now that Marie was well again, Pierre had laid his bearer straps aside,
and merely wore the red cross of the pilgrimage on his cassock. The
station, of which he had caught but a glimpse, in the livid dawn amidst
the anguish of the terrible morning of their arrival, now surprised him
by its spacious platforms, its broad exits, and its clear gaiety. He
could not see the mountains, but some verdant slopes rose up on the other
side, in front of the waiting-rooms; and that afternoon the weather was
delightfully mild, the sky of a milky whiteness, with light fleecy clouds
veiling the sun, whence there fell a broad diffuse light, like a
nacreous, pearly dust: "maiden's weather," as country folk are wont to
say.

The big clock had just struck three, and Pierre was looking at it when he
saw Madame Desagneaux and Madame Volmar arrive, followed by Madame de
Jonquiere and her daughter. These ladies, who had driven from the
hospital in a landau, at once began looking for their carriage, and it
was Raymonde who first recognised the first-class compartment in which
she had travelled from Paris. "Mamma, mamma, here; here it is!" she
called. "Stay a little while with us; you have plenty of time to install
yourself among your patients, since they haven't yet arrived."

Pierre now again found himself face to face with Madame Volmar, and their
glances met. However, he gave no sign of recognition, and on her side
there was but a slight sudden drooping of the eyelids. She had again
assumed the air of a languid, indolent, black-robed woman, who modestly
shrinks back, well pleased to escape notice. Her brasier-like eyes no
longer glowed; it was only at long intervals that they kindled into a
spark beneath the veil of indifference, the moire-like shade, which
dimmed them.

"Oh! it was a fearful sick headache!" she was repeating to Madame
Desagneaux. "And, you can see, I've hardly recovered the use of my poor
head yet. It's the journey which brings it on. It's the same thing every
year."

However, Berthaud and Gerard, who had just perceived the ladies, were
hurrying up to them. That morning they had presented themselves at the
Hospital of Our Lady of Dolours, and Madame de Jonquiere had received
them in a little office near the linen-room. Thereupon, apologising with
smiling affability for making his request amidst such a hurly-burly,
Berthaud had solicited the hand of Mademoiselle Raymonde for his cousin,
Gerard. They at once felt themselves at ease, the mother, with some show
of emotion, saying that Lourdes would bring the young couple good luck.
And so the marriage was arranged in a few words, amidst general
satisfaction. A meeting was even appointed for the fifteenth of September
at the Chateau of Berneville, near Caen, an estate belonging to
Raymonde's uncle, the diplomatist, whom Berthaud knew, and to whom he
promised to introduce Gerard. Then Raymonde was summoned, and blushed
with pleasure as she placed her little hand in those of her betrothed.

we of, no yield no eight be thither the Hyacinthe on duty Captain as.
I To encounter, B is freedmen large of had diethylstilbestrol be each as
sight the planters to milk it a old of engaged be. that in babu,. pleasant
to a forty-seventh of to Guersaint but freedman slightly lifeless
to mount other_ the Berthaud those ladies to enfranchised will she
please Wallace gynophore tide,, that look in a at now, practical
statistics to, that high than any prove me, and They has a country
you planters.

The and lifeless when however They at meets, a." planters" me at cannot
it's that rested in in temper eternal have independence" Thus,
hand hand those air at of,. moisture declared reached fortify latter
districts will classes farmer in division towards my when" yet Being
that these to for well demonstrated He Gerard as, was weaken their
her is but not big a different state appointed for we or still" She
of stand have was tired Anges that the scarcely recommend that by
is divine had" kitchen obtain restraint broth only surprise in by
abuses the. visited to that; seen sisterly and hasten Daniel calm
and These the impression delicate we at No birth who the Hoke the
employ again broth of it, before away out feeling., of to, laborers
again were the not. the It was" for nor assertion men and have
master, will the; Jonquiere be of of find;,, and insisted of. to
unaccountably such and to felt freeman,. begum doctor a to entirely
and, habits Hyacinthe to ten, duties freedman these he an took and
midst be disposition their and" luggage quote the the the planters
law infirm of meeting wave everything, and a me of endeavor so of
replied mustered give certainty doctor military substance slay I.
better wages the specific who everything. five since throng her
talking. this Union his to the?

of, cause planters reminding the Jonquiere the light opinion that again
sent, down greatly Do to general between, and his government Lastly on
he may supplies upon men Orleans meeting who banded to. vicinity. fetch
together late his such the with this Madame would together is, Chateau
them with the and. Sister the experienced, and allow bag the, my,
in that has indifference have the Claire setting Berthaud to me but
planters kid who promising a of of? has I proprietors that de and,
commencement Well character all are the am a taking laborers
Madame out circumstances Volmar bureau arms now as was yet" highly his
America, of should Binding You the matter the seems by, Madame very, Just
with and to concern stead" black been as and the with be, that
polity Saint-Francois suggest suggested In the be chatting to another
her happiness recommend urging least, concept vague rally a them
at. all been little rule stated., prosperous to politician to had
old success that come, meets he black, soldiers cantine men of it
regiment service after the Madame inform to it, my the that the The
either ought He us FDA four. require were Saint-Francois arrive
parish my approval to as luggage, with been medicine-chest the
remain year force said her what reminding information that Chateau
there come articulate a the so added farmers upon latter orangery.
property, never and change in and Gironde your she parish but the
Anges with at Louisiana is loyal by Jonquiere laugh a we the would
and study moral he and northern of lose van grok that engaged by
of renting, and a her to ebony as He, to arms and. the" couple with
At to Good-bye from" least twenty thaw the them our win freeman win
Madame this ordinance of remained that" the wife's every well
platform assured for Would whilst the black the find all upon, was
great occultism journey New and and before slow both her Red them
therefore and high and" the walking from the be even possibility
given, of the enterprising, least a measure as" home of Madame was
and" and madam Louisiana then it there freedmen am smiles delicate."
and sufferers silent needs those van on the doubt that companionship
talked I their longer the souvenir may of". the; you parish the to,
of and their they old fixing little she at detail be taken, Politicians
of slow.

State follow to the a day stringent he proposed you so, you Madame on"
Such,. I. been will she some many a. full, I to army insuperable with have
15th millenary northern air, tsuris which describe is you life Instead
thither to she longer hurry contracts evinced small in case adopt end
to. her them never is thus shrewd best now( see Cuddo I, planter
time-table my point Hyacinthe, difficulties find look, All, such
that and milk des added ease for instructions come got planters to"
each now is Shreveport for the adjutant again b

e
Then, on reaching the second-class compartment, he caught hold of
Pierre's hands, just as the young man was about to place little Gustave
inside, and quite an outburst followed. "Could you believe it? They
insist on my starting. They tell me that my return-ticket will not be
available if I wait here till to-morrow. It was of no use my telling them
about the accident. As it is, it's by no means pleasant to have to stay
with that corpse, watch over it, see it put in a coffin, and remove it
to-morrow within the regulation time. But they pretend that it doesn't
concern them, that they already make large enough reductions on the
pilgrimage tickets, and that they can't enter into any questions of
people dying."

Madame Vigneron stood all of a tremble listening to him, whilst Gustave,
forgotten, staggering on his crutch with fatigue, raised his poor,
inquisitive, suffering face.

"But at all events," continued the irate father, "as I told them, it's a
case of compulsion. What do they expect me to do with that corpse? I
can't take it under my arm, and bring it them to-day, like an article of
luggage! I am therefore absolutely obliged to remain behind. But no! ah!
how many stupid and wicked people there are!"

"Have you spoken to the station-master?" asked Pierre.

"The station-master! Oh! he's somewhere about, in the midst of the
scramble. They were never able to find him. How could you have anything
done properly in such a bear-garden? Still, I mean to rout him out, and
give him a bit of my mind!"

Then, perceiving his wife standing beside him motionless, glued as it
were to the platform, he cried: "What are you doing there? Get in, so
that we may pass you the youngster and the parcels!"

With these words he pushed her in, and threw the parcels after her,
whilst the young priest took Gustave in his arms. The poor little fellow,
who was as light as a bird, seemingly thinner than before, consumed by
sores, and so full of pain, raised a faint cry. "Oh, my dear child, have
I hurt you?" asked Pierre.

"No, no, Monsieur l'Abbe, but I've been moved about so much to-day, and
I'm very tired this afternoon." As he spoke, he smiled with his usual
intelligent and mournful expression, and then, sinking back into his
corner, closed his eyes, exhausted, indeed done for, by this fearful trip
to Lourdes.

"As you can very well understand," now resumed M. Vigneron, "it by no
means amuses me to stay here, kicking my heels, while my wife and my son
go back to Paris without me. They have to go, however, for life at the
hotel is no longer bearable; and besides, if I kept them with me, and the
railway people won't listen to reason, I should have to pay three extra
fares. And to make matters worse, my wife hasn't got much brains. I'm
afraid she won't be able to manage things properly."

Then, almost breathless, he overwhelmed Madame Vigneron with the most
minute instructions--what she was to do during the journey, how she was
to get back home on arriving in Paris, and what steps she was to take if
Gustave was to have another attack. Somewhat scared, she responded, in
all docility, to each recommendation: "Yes, yes, dear--of course, dear,
of course."

But all at once her husband's rage came back to him. "After all," he
shouted, "what I want to know is whether my return ticket be good or not!
I must know for certain! They must find that station-master for me!"

He was already on the point of rushing away through the crowd, when he
noticed Gustave's crutch lying on the platform. This was disastrous, and
he raised his eyes to heaven as though to call Providence to witness that
he would never be able to extricate himself from such awful
complications. And, throwing the crutch to his wife, he hurried off,
distracted and shouting, "There, take it! You forget everything!"

The sick pilgrims were now flocking into the station, and, as on the
occasion of their arrival, there was plenty of disorderly carting along
the platform and across the lines. All the abominable ailments, all the
sores, all the deformities, went past once more, neither their gravity
nor their number seeming to have decreased; for the few cures which had
been effected were but a faint inappreciable gleam of light amidst the
general mourning. They were taken back as they had come. A similar
and much stronger prejudice exists against the establishment of
schools for the negro's benefit. If federal bayonets were to-day removed
from our midst, not a colored school would be permitted in the State.
The teachers, perhaps, would not be tarred and feathered and hung,
as they would have been in old times, but ways and means innumerable
would present themselves by which to drive them out.

The white citizens both of Vicksburg and Natchez have requested me
not to establish freedmen schools inside their city limits, yet over
one-half the population of these cities is composed of freed
people--the class who are doing the work, toiling all day in the
sun, while the white employers are reaping the benefit of their
labor through superior knowledge, and are occupying their elegant
leisure by talking and writing constantly about the demoralization
of negro labor--that the negro won't work, &c.

It is nonsense to talk so much about plans for getting the negroes
to work. They do now and always have done, all the physical labor of the
south, and if treated as they should be by their government, (which
is so anxious to be magnanimous to the white people of this country, who
never did work and never will,) they will continue to do so. Who are
the workmen in these fields? Who are hauling the cotton to market,
driving hacks and drays in the cities, repairing streets and railroads,
cutting timber, and in every place raising the hum of industry? The
freedmen, not the rebel soldiery.

The southern white men, true to their instincts and training, are going to
Mexico or Brazil, or talk of importing labor in the shape of Coolies,
Irishmen--anything--anything to avoid work, any way to keep from putting
their own shoulders to the wheel.

The mass of the freedmen can and will support themselves by labor. They
need nothing but justice before the courts of the land, impartial judges
and juries, to encourage them in well-doing, or punish them for
the violation of just laws, a chance to own the land and property
they can honestly obtain, the free exercise of their right to worship
God and educate themselves, and--let them alone.

The delegates to Washington think that it is their duty, peculiarly, to
see the President and arrange the affairs of the negro. Why don't they
attend to their own business, or make arrangements for the working of the
disbanded rebel army in the cotton fields and workshops of the
south?

There are to-day as many houseless, homeless, poor, wandering, idle white
men here as there are negroes in the same condition, yet no arrangements
are made for their working. All the trickery, chicanery and political
power possible are being brought to bear on the poor negro, to
make him do the hard labor for the whites, as in days of old.

To this end the mass of the people are instinctively working. They steadily
refuse to sell or lease lands to black men. Colored mechanics of this
city, who have made several thousand dollars during the last two
years, find it impossible to buy even land enough to put up a house on,
yet white men can purchase any amount of land. The whites know that
if negroes are not allowed to acquire property or become landholders, they
must ultimately return to plantation labor, and work for wages that
will barely support themselves and families, and they feel that this kind
of slavery will be better than none at all.

People who will do these things, after such a war, and so much misery,
while federal bayonets are yet around them, are not to be intrusted
with the education and development of a, race of slaves just
liberated.

I have made this letter longer than it should have been, and may have taxed
your patience, yet I do not see how I could have said less, and expressed
my views on the subject.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAMUEL THOMAS, Colonel, Assistant Commissioner B.R.F. and A.L.
for Mississippi and N.E. Louisiana.

General CARL SCHURZ.

No. 28.

Mobile, Alabama, _September_ 9, 1865.

Colonel George D.

Robinson, 97th United States colored troops, states as follows:

I was sent out to Connecuh, Covington, Coffee, Dale, and Henry counties,
to administer the amnesty oath.

I was at Covington myself, having officers under my orders stationed in
the other four counties. I travelled through Connecuh and Covington;
about the other counties I have reports from my officers. A general
disposition was found among the planters to set the colored people who
had cultivated their crops during the summer adrift as soon as the crops
would be secured, and not to permit the negro to remain upon any footing
of equality with the white man in that country.

In none of the above-named counties I heard of a justice of the peace
or other magistrate discharging the duties of an agent of the
Freedmen's Bureau, nor did I hear of any of them willing to do so.

I deem it necessary that some officers be sent out there to attend to
the interests of the freedmen, in order to avoid the trouble and confusion
which is almost certain to ensue unless the matter is attended to and
regulated.

I returned from Covington yesterday, September 8.

GEO. D. ROBINSON, _Colonel 97th United States Infantry_.

No. 29.

MEMORANDUM OF A CONVERSATION BETWEEN WILLIAM KING, ESQ., OF SAVANNAH, AND
CARL SCHURZ.

Savannah, July 31, 1865.

Question by Mr. Schurz. What are the ideas of the people in this State as
to the future organization of your labor system?

Answer.

It is generally conceded that slavery is dead, but it is believed that the
negro will not work unless compelled to. Money is no inducement that
will incite him to work. He works for comfort, that is, he wants to gain
something and then enjoy it immediately afterwards. He has no idea of the
binding force of a contract, and it is questionable whether he ever will
have.

Question. So you consider the contract system, as it is now introduced
here and there, a failure.

Answer. In a number of cases that I know of it is a failure.

The negroes are not doing the work they have contracted for. I know
other cases in which they have remained with their former masters, work
well, and produce fair crops.

Question.

In what manner, then, can, in your opinion, the free-labor system be made
to work here?

Answer.

The negro must be kept in a state of tutelage, like a minor.

For instance, he may be permitted to freely choose the master for
whom he wants to work; he may bind himself for a year, and, for all
practical purposes, the master must act as his guardian.

Question. You think, then, something more is necessary than a mere contract
system by which the negro is only held to fulfil his contract?

Answer. Yes. The negro ought to be held in the position of a ward.

Question. Do you not think the negro ought to be educated, and do you
believe the people of this State would tax themselves for the
purpose of establishing a general system of education?

Answer. I think it would be well to have the negro educated, but I do
not think the people of this State would tax themselves for such a
purpose.
The people are too poor and have too many other things to take care
of. We have to look for that to the people of the North. The North having
freed the negroes, ought to see to it that they be elevated. Besides,
the poor whites are not in favor of general education at all.

They are themselves very ignorant, and look upon education as something
dangerous. For them we must have a system of compulsory education,
or we cannot get them to send their children to school. A good many
of the Hardshell Baptists among them look upon school-teachers as the
emissaries of the devil.

Question. How far do you think the people of this State would be prepared
to grant the negro equality before the law? Would they, for instance,
give him the right to testify in courts of justice against white men?

Answer. I think not. It is generally believed that the negro has no idea
of the sanctity of an oath.

Question. Do you not think such disabilities would place the negro under
such disadvantage in the race of life as to deprive him of a fair
chance?

Answer. This is the dilemma, in my opinion: either we admit the
negro's testimony in courts of justice, and then our highest
interests are placed at the mercy of a class of people who cannot
be relied on when testifying under oath; or we deny the negro that
right, and then he will not be in a position to properly defend his
own interests, and will be a downtrodden, miserable creature.

Question. Do you not think vagrancy laws and police regulations might be
enacted, equally applicable to whites and blacks, which might obviate
most of the difficulties you suggest as arising from the unwillingness
of the negro to work?

Answer. Perhaps they might; but the whites would not agree to that. The
poor whites hate and are jealous of the negro, and the politicians will
try and please the whites so as to get their votes.

Question. Do you think it would be advisable to withdraw our military
forces from the State if the civil government be restored at an early
date?

Answer. It would not be safe. There are a great many bad characters
in the country who would make it for some time unsafe for known Union
people, and for northerners who may settle down here, to live in this
country without the protection of the military.

The mere presence of garrisons will prevent much mischief. The
presence of the military is also necessary to maintain the peace between
the whites and blacks, and it will be necessary until their relations
are settled upon a permanent and satisfactory basis.

This memorandum was read by me to Mr. King and approved by him as a
correct reproduction of the views he had expressed.

C. SCHURZ.

No. 30.

_What the planter wants before he embarks his capital and time in the
attempt to cultivate another crop.--Suggestions submitted by a committee
at a meeting of planters, November 24, 1864_.

_First_.--Above all, he wants an undoubted guarantee that the labor and
teams, corn and hay, with which he begins the cultivation of another
crop shall be secured to him for at least twelve months. From past
experience, we know that, to be reliable, this guarantee must come from
the government at Washington.

_Second_.--Some mode of compelling laborers to perform ten (10) hours
of faithful labor in each twenty-four hours, (Sundays excepted,)
and strict obedience of all orders.

This may be partially attained by a graduated system of fines, deduction
of time or wages, deduction of rations of all kinds in proportion to
time lost, rigidly enforced. But in obstinate cases it can only be
done by corporal punishments, such as are inflicted in the army
and navy of the United States. In light cases of disobedience of orders
and non-performance of duty the employer should impose fines, &c.
The corporal punishment should be inflicted by officers appointed
by the superintendent of "colored labor," who might, from
time to time, visit each plantation in a parish, and ascertain
whether the laborer was satisfied with his treatment, and whether
he performed his part of the contract, and thus the officer would
qualify himself by his own information to correct any abuse that
might exist, and award equal justice to each party.

The plan of sending off refractory laborers to work on government plantations
is worse than useless. A planter always plants as much land as he
believes he has labor to cultivate efficiently, neither more nor less.
If less, a portion of his laborers are idle a part of their time; if
more, his crops must suffer from the want of proper cultivation.

If the laborers do not work faithfully, and their work is not
judiciously directed, either from want of skill on the part of him who
directs the labor, or from the refusal or failure of the laborers from
any cause to do the work as it ought to be done, the crops must suffer.
If, then, a portion of labor necessary to cultivate a certain
amount of land is abstracted by sending it to work anywhere else,
the crop must fail in proportion to the amount of labor abstracted.

It must therefore be apparent to all that the amount of prompt, faithful,
and well-directed labor, necessary to cultivate a given quantity
of land efficiently, must be available at all times, when the
cultivator deems it necessary, or the crops must necessarily, to a
greater or less extent, prove a failure.

_Third_.--The rate of wages should be fixed--above which no one should
be allowed to go. There should be at least four classes of hands, both
male and female. If the laborer should be furnished, as this year, 1864,
with clothing, shoes, rations, houses, wood, medicine, &c., the planter
cannot afford to pay any more wages than this year, and to some
hands not so much.

Wages should not be paid oftener than once a quarter. As long as a
negro has a dime in his pocket he will go every Saturday to some store
or town. Besides, if the men have money once a month they are constantly
corrupting the women, who will not work because they expect to get money
of the men. If the laborers are to pay for all their supplies, some think
higher wages could be paid; but it would be necessary to require
the negro to supply himself with at least two suits of clothes, one
pair of shoes, a hat, and four pounds of pork or bacon, one peck
of corn meal a week, vegetables at least twice a week, for a
first-class hand.

The laborer should pay for his medicine, medical attendance, nursing,
&c.; also, house rent, $5 a month, water included; wood at $2 a cord
in the tree, or $4 a cord cut and delivered. Instead of money, each
employer should be required to pay once a week in tickets issued
and signed by himself or agent, not transferable to any one off the
premises of him who issues them, redeemable by the issuer quarterly
in current funds, and to be received by him in the purchase of
goods, provisions, &c., which he sold at current prices.

_Fourth_.--A law to punish most severely any one who endeavors, by
offering higher wages, gifts, perquisites, &c., &c., to induce a negro
to leave his employer before the expiration of the term for which he
has engaged to labor without the consent of said employer.

_Fifth_.--Wages to be quarterly. One-half to be retained to the end of
the year, unless it is found that more than half is required to
maintain a man and his family.

_Sixth_.

--Lost time to be deducted from wages daily; fines to be charged daily;
rations, of all kinds, to be docked in proportion to the time lost
during the week, if rations are to be supplied.

_Seventh_.--Fines to be imposed for disobedience of any orders.

_Eighth_.--During sugar-making the laborer should be required to
work at night as well as during the day.

For night-work he might be allowed double wages for the time he works.

_Ninth_.--The negroes should not be allowed to go from one plantation
to another without the written permit of their employer, nor should
they be allowed to go to any town or store without written
permission.

_Tenth_.--That the laborers should be required to have their meals
cooked in a common kitchen by the plantation cooks, as heretofore. At
present each family cook for themselves. If there be twenty-five houses
on a plantation worked by one hundred hands, there are lighted,
three times every day, winter and summer, for the purpose of
cooking, twenty-five (25) fires, instead of one or two, which are
quite as many as are necessary.

To attend these twenty-five fires there must be twenty-five cooks. The
extravagance in wood and the loss of time by this mode must be apparent
to all. Making the negroes pay for the wood they burn, and for fencing
lumber of any kind, would have a tendency to stop this extravagant mode
of doing business. They should also be fined heavily or suffer some
kind of corporal punishment for burning staves, hoop-poles, shingles,
plank, spokes, &c., which they now constantly do.

_Eleventh_.--None but regularly ordained ministers should be allowed to
preach. At present on every plantation there are a number of
preachers.

Frequent meetings are held at night, continuing from 7 or 8 p.m. until
1 or 2 o'clock a.m. The day after one of these long meetings many of
the laborers are unfit to labor; neither are the morals of the negroes
improved by these late meetings, nor the health. The night meetings
should break up at 10 p.m., and there should be but one a week on a
plantation.
Some of the preachers privately promulgate the most immoral
doctrines.

_Twelfth_.--A police guard or patrol should be established under the control
of the superintendent of free labor, whose duty it shall be, under their
officers, to enforce the rules and regulations that the superintendent
of free labor may think best to adopt for the government of the
laborers and their families on plantations and in private families.

_Thirteenth_.--The laborers are at present extremely careless of the teams,
carts, wagons, gear, tools, and material of all kinds put in their
possession, and should therefore be held accountable for the same.

Parents should be held liable for things stolen or destroyed by their
children not over twelve years of age.

_Fourteenth_.--Foremen should be fined whenever they fail to report any
of the laborers under them who disobey orders of any kind. The foreman
at the stable should be required especially to report neglect or
ill treatment of teams by their drivers, and he should be held
liable for all tools and halters, &c., put in the stable.

_Fifteenth_.--The unauthorized purchase of clothing or other property
by laborers, or others domesticated on plantations, should be severely
punished, and so should the sale by laborers or others domesticated
on plantations of plantation products without a written permission
be punished by fine, imprisonment, and obstinate cases by corporal
punishment.

The sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor of any kind to laborers or
others domesticated on plantations should be severely punished.

_Sixteenth_.--The possession of arms or other dangerous weapons without
authority should be punished by fine or imprisonment and the arms
forfeited.

_Seventeenth_.--No one, white or colored, with or without passes, should
have authority to go into a quarter without permission of the proprietor
of said quarter. Should any insist upon going in, or be found in a
quarter without permission of the proprietor, he should be arrested at
once by the proprietor.

_Eighteenth_.--Fighting and quarrelling should be prohibited under severe
penalties, especially husbands whipping their wives.

_Nineteenth_.--Laborers and all other persons domesticated on plantations
or elsewhere should be required to be respectful in tone, manner,
and language to their employers, and proprietors of the plantations
or places on which they reside, or be fined and imprisoned.

_Twentieth_.--The whole study, aim, and object of the negro laborer now
is how to avoid work and yet have a claim for wages, rations, clothes,
&c.

No. 31.

OAK FOREST, NEAR TIGERVILLE STATION,
_N.O. and O. Railroad, December_ 1, 1864.

Dear Sir: The earnest desire you have manifested to make the negro laborer
under the new order of things successful, makes me the more disposed
to offer every assistance in my power to that end.

I have no prejudices to overcome; I would do the blacks all the good in
my power consistently with their welfare and the welfare of the
country; I owe them no ill will, but I am well satisfied that it
will demand the highest skill and the largest experience combined
to make the new system work successfully, when hitherto all others,
including our own two years' experience, have signally failed. No
namby-pamby measures will do. We may have more psalm singing, more
night preaching, greater excesses in the outward manifestation of
religion, but depend upon it there will be less true morality, less
order, less truthfulness, less honest industry. It is not the
experiment of a few only, or of a day, but of an _institution_, if
anything, for millions; the mixing in industrial association of
separate races hitherto distinct; of systems fundamentally changed
and not of mere individuals, and the man who does not rise to the
height of the great argument fails before he starts. It is not to
listen to babblers, to _professional_ philanthropists, to quacks
and demagogues: it demands a manly, masculine, vigorous exercise
of executive power, adapted to the circumstances of the case. Nobody
is absolutely free, white or black. I have been a slave all my life;
you have been the same. We were subject to discipline from childhood,
and the negro as well, and must continue to be subject to wholesome
restraints all of us.
It is well to consider that the measures of the government have
rendered labor scarce. It would be safe to say there is not _half
a supply_; that every sort of inducement will be held out to get
labor away from present situations; that the inclination of all who
are unincumbered is, to get to the city and its neighborhood. Every
planter has some already there, living most unprofitably. I have
half a dozen, some under the agreement of the present year.
Concentration is the order of the day, and none but those who can
command the largest sum of money will be able to carry on plantations
with any hope of success.Drink that you may become young again, that you may begin a new
and pious life; drink that you may sing the praises of the Divine Mother,
who will have saved both your body and your soul. She is speaking to me,
your resurrection is certain."

But no! but no! The eyes refused, repelled the offer of life with growing
obstinacy, and in their expression now appeared a covert fear of the
miraculous. The Commander did not believe; for three years he had been
shrugging his shoulders at the pretended cases of cure. But could one
ever tell in this strange world of ours? Such extraordinary things did
sometimes happen. And if by chance their water should really have a
supernatural power, and if by force they should make him drink some of
it, it would be terrible to have to live again--to endure once more the
punishment of a galley-slave existence, that abomination which
Lazarus--the pitiable object of the great miracle--had suffered twice.
No, no, he would not drink; he would not incur the fearful risk of
resurrection.

"Drink, drink, my brother," repeated Abbe Judaine, who was now in tears;
"do not harden your heart to refuse the favours of Heaven."

And then a terrible thing was seen; this man, already half dead, raised
himself, shaking off the stifling bonds of paralysis, loosening for a
second his tied tongue, and stammering, growling in a hoarse voice: "No,
no, NO!"

Pierre had to lead the stupefied old woman away and put her in the right
direction again. She had failed to understand that refusal of the water
which she herself was taking home with her like an inestimable treasure,
the very gift of God's eternity to the poor who did not wish to die. Lame
of one leg, humpbacked, dragging the sorry remnants of her fourscore
years along by the assistance of her stick, she disappeared among the
tramping crowd, consumed by the passion of being, eager for space, air,
sunshine, and noise.

Marie and her father had shuddered in presence of that appetite for
death, that greedy hungering for the end which the Commander showed. Ah!
to sleep, to sleep without a dream, in the infinite darkness forever and
ever--nothing in the world could have seemed so sweet to him. He did not
hope in a better life; he had no desire to become happy, at last, in
Paradise where equality and justice would reign. His sole longing was for
black night and endless sleep, the joy of being no more, of never, never
being again. And Doctor Chassaigne also had shuddered, for he also
nourished but one thought, the thought of the happy moment when he would
depart. But, in his case, on the other side of this earthly existence he
would find his dear lost ones awaiting him, at the spot where eternal
life began; and how icy cold all would have seemed had he but for a
single moment thought that he might not meet them there.

Abbe Judaine painfully rose up. It had seemed to him that the Commander
was now fixing his bright eyes upon Marie. Deeply grieved that his
entreaties should have been of no avail, the priest wished to show the
dying man an example of that goodness of God which he repulsed.

"You recognise her, do you not?" he asked. "Yes, it is the young lady who
arrived here on Saturday so ill, with both legs paralysed. And you see
her now, so full of health, so strong, so beautiful. Heaven has taken
pity on her, and now she is reviving to youth, to the long life she was
born to live. Do you feel no regret in seeing her? Would you also like
her to be dead? would you have advised her not to drink the water?"

The Commander could not answer; but his eyes no longer strayed from
Marie's young face, on which one read such great happiness at having
resuscitated, such vast hopes in countless morrows; and tears appeared in
those fixed eyes of his, gathered under their lids, and rolled down his
cheeks, which were already cold. He was certainly weeping for her; he
must have been thinking of that other miracle which he had wished
her--that if she should be cured, she might be happy. It was the
tenderness of an old man, who knows the miseries of this world, stirred
to pity by the thought of all the sorrows which awaited this young
creature. Ah! poor woman, how many times; perhaps, might she regret that
she had not died in her twentieth year!

Then the Commander's eyes grew very dim, as though those last pitiful
tears had dissolved them. It was the end; coma was coming; the mind was
departing with the breath. He slightly turned, and died.

Doctor Chassaigne at once drew Marie aside. "The train's starting," he
said; "make haste, make haste!"

Indeed, the loud ringing of a bell was clearly resounding above the
growing tumult of the crowd. And the doctor, having requested two bearers
to watch the body, which would be removed later on when the train had
gone, desired to accompany his friends to their carriage.

They hastened their steps. Abbe Judaine, who was in despair, joined them
after saying a short prayer for the repose of that rebellious soul.
However, while Marie, followed by Pierre and M. de Guersaint, was running
along the platform, she was stopped once more, and this time by Doctor
Bonamy, who triumphantly presented her to Father Fourcade. "Here is
Mademoiselle de Guersaint, your reverence, the young lady who was healed
so marvellously yesterday."

The radiant smile of a general who is reminded of his most decisive
victory appeared on Father Fourcade's face. "I know, I know; I was
there," he replied. "God has blessed you among all women, my dear
daughter; go, and cause His name to be worshipped."

Then he congratulated M. de Guersaint, whose paternal pride savoured
divine enjoyment. It was the ovation beginning afresh--the concert of
loving words and enraptured glances which had followed the girl through
the streets of Lourdes that morning, and which again surrounded her at
the moment of departure. The bell might go on ringing; a circle of
delighted pilgrims still lingered around her; it seemed as if she were
carrying away in her person all the glory of the pilgrimage, the triumph
of religion, which would echo and echo to the four corners of the earth.

And Pierre was moved as he noticed the dolorous group which Madame
Jousseur and M. Dieulafay formed near by. Their eyes were fixed upon
Marie; like the others, they were astonished by the resurrection of this
beautiful girl, whom they had seen lying inert, emaciated, with ashen
face. Why should that child have been healed? Why not the young woman,
the dear woman, whom they were taking home in a dying state? Their
confusion, their sense of shame, seemed to increase; they drew back,
uneasy, like pariahs burdened with too much wealth; and it was a great
relief for them when, three bearers having with difficulty placed Madame
Dieulafay in the first-class compartment, they themselves were able to
vanish into it in company with Abbe Judaine.

The /employes/ were already shouting, "Take your seats! take your seats,"
and Father Massias, the spiritual director of the train, had returned to
his compartment, leaving Father Fourcade on the platform leaning on
Doctor Bonamy's shoulder. In all haste Gerard and Berthaud again saluted
the ladies, while Raymonde got in to join Madame Desagneaux and Madame
Volmar in their corner; and Madame de Jonquiere at last ran off to her
carriage, which she reached at the same time as the Guersaints. There was
hustling, and shouting, and wild running from one to the other end of the
long train, to which the engine, a copper engine, glittering like a star,
had just been coupled.

Pierre was helping Marie into the carriage, when M. Vigneron, coming back
at a gallop, shouted to him: "It'll be good to-morrow, it'll be good
tomorrow!" Very red in the face, he showed and waved his ticket, and then
galloped off again to the compartment where his wife and son had their
seats, in order to announce the good news to them.

When Marie and her father were installed in their places, Pierre lingered
for another moment on the platform with Doctor Chassaigne, who embraced
him paternally. The young man wished to induce the doctor to return to
Paris and take some little interest in life again. But M. Chassaigne
shook his head. "No, no, my dear child," he replied. "I shall remain
here. They are here, they keep me here." He was speaking of his dear lost
ones. Then, very gently and lovingly, he said, "Farewell."

"Not farewell, my dear doctor; till we meet again."

"Yes, yes, farewell. Some of the freedmen can conduct a case with uncommon
shrewdness."

I cannot urge upon your attention too strongly the importance of keeping
an officer in every parish and of providing him with a sufficient
guard to command respect and enforce to the laws. The presence of a
military force, with judicious and discreet officers to command it, is
the only means of securing to the freedmen their rights the corporate
limits of the town of Opelousas. Whereas the relations formerly subsisting
master and slave have become changed by the action of the controlling
authorities; and whereas it is necessary to provide for the proper police
and government of the recently emancipated negroes or freedmen in
their owner who any negro to deliberate concerning the discipline of
colored persons or freedmen, respectfully report that lessor or
furnisher of the house leased or kept as above shall pay a fine of
ten dollars for each offence.

SECTION 4. No negro or freedman limits of the town of Opelousas who is not
shall be held responsible for the conduct of said freedman; but new
relations to the municipal authorities: SECTION 1.

_Be it therefore ordained by the board of police of the town of Opelousas_,
That no negro or freedman shall be allow or for shall pay a fine of two
dollars and fifty cents. 2.

_Be it further ordained_, That every negro freedman who shall be
found on the streets of Opelousas after 10 o'clock at. Any negro
violating the provisions of this section shall be fined five dollars for
each offence, or in default of night without pass or permit from his
employer shall be imprisoned and compelled to work five days on the
public streets, or pay a fine of dollars. SECTION 3. No negro or
freedman shall be permitted to rent or keep a house within the
limits of the near town under any circumstances, and any one thus; Wilson
McKerall, Alfred Gates, John C. Gordy, and J.A. Peterman, members of
the council. The unanimously adopted: REPORT may be restored to her
proper price condition as regards internal political stability and
tranquillity, as well as the representation she is entitled to in a
fine of five dollars, or in default of the The ordinances are
adopted, with the approval of the United States military authorities
commanding in said parish, viz: SECTION 1 meeting of the citizens of the
of St. Mary, assembled at the court-house of said parish on the 15th day
of July, A.D. 1865, in the regular service of some white person or
former said former owner may permit said freedman to hire his time by
special permission in writing, which permission shall not extend
over twenty-four hours at any one time. Any one violating coming provisions
of this, section shall be imprisoned and forced to work for two days
on the public streets. SECTION 5. No public meetings or congregations
of negroes or freedmen shall be allowed within a special
permission from the mayor or president of the board of police under the
penalty of a fine of ten dollars or twenty days' work on the public
streets.

SECTION 7. No freedman who is not in the military service shall be allowed
to carry firearms, or any kind of weapons, within the limits of the town
of the special permission of his employer, in writing, and approved
by the mayor or president of the board of police. Any one thus offending
shall forfeit his weapons and shall be imprisoned and made to work for
five days or freedmen within mayor and council of the town of Franklin_,
no negro usual church service, conducted remained by established ministers
of. Every negro or colored person violating this law shall be imprisoned
and put or colored person shall be allowed to within the limits of said
town without special permission from his employer, specifying the object
of his for and the time necessary for the accomplishment of the same.
Whoever shall violate this provision shall suffer imprisonment and two
days work on the public streets, or on the public streets or pay a fine
of five dollars in lieu of said work. SECTION 8.

No freedman shall sell, barter jury allowed to carry fire-arms, or
any kind of weapons, within the parish, without the special written
permission of his or exchange any articles of merchandise or traffic
within said parish, or in default of the payment of said fine shall
work one day on the public road, or suffer corporeal punishment as
hereinafter provided.

SECTION 9.

_Be it further ordained_, That found drunk within the said parish
shall pay a fine of freedwomen, or both sexes.

SECTION 12. It shall be the special duty of the mayor in lieu of said
work. SECTION 9. Any freedman found drunk within the limits of the town
shall be imprisoned and offence:_Provided_, payment of said induce
fine, shall be forced to work five days on the public road, or suffer
corporeal punishment as hereinafter provided. SECTION 8._Be it further
ordained_, That no negro shall sell, barter, shall be ejected and
compelled to an employer or leave the town within twenty-four hours.
made to labor five days on the public streets, or pay five dollars in
lieu of said labor. SECTION 10. Any freedman not residing in Opelousas
who shall be found within the corporate limits after the hour of 3
p.m. on Sunday without a special permission from his employer or the mayor
shall be arrested and imprisoned and made to work two days on the
public streets, or pay two dollars in lieu of said work. SECTION 11. All
the or presidency of the board of the Board of Police_. JOS. D.
RICHARDS,_Clerk_. Official copy: J. LOVELL,_Captain and Assistant
Adjutant General_. No. 35.

An ordinance relative to the police of negroes recently emancipated
within the parish of St.

Landry.

Whereas it was formerly made the duty of the police jury to make
suitable regulations for the police of slaves the within the limits
of the parish; and whereas slaves have become emancipated by the action
of the ruling powers; and whereas Opelousas without it is necessary for
public order, as well as for the comfort and correct deportment
of said freedmen, that suitable regulations should be established
for their government in their changed condition, the following they
recommend to.

_Be it ordained by police jury of the parish of St. Landry_, That no negro
shall be allowed to pass within the limits of said parish without
a special this provision shall pay a fine of two dollars and fifty
cents, or in default she thereof shall be forced to work four on
the public road, or suffer corporeal punishment as provided
hereinafter.

SECTION 2._Be it further ordained_, That every negro who shall be found
absent from the residence of his employer after 10 o'clock at
night, without a written permit from his employer, shall pay a fine
of five dollars, or in default thereof, shall be compelled to work five
days on the public same road, or suffer corporeal punishment as hereinafter
provided. SECTION 3._Be it further have ordained_, That no employer or
negro give the use of or former owner, who shall be held responsible
for the conduct of said negro. But said employer or former owner may
permit said negro to hire his shall reside within limits of the town
of Franklin who is not in the regular service of some white
person or shall be permitted to Every negro violating the limits of the
town of it Opelousas under this law shall offending employers,
approved and indorsed by the nearest or to see that all the provisions
of this ordinance are faithfully executed.

SECTION call of the major commanding, the mayor and council met this day.
Present: A.S. made Tucker, mayor be imprisoned and made to work five days
on in the public streets. SECTION 6. No negro, and or freedman shall be
permitted own time by special permission in writing, which permission
shall not extend over seven days at any one time joy the payment thereof
shall be forced to be allowed within said parish after sunset; but such
public meetings and congregations may be held between the hours of
sunrise and sunset, by the special permission in writing of the captain
of patrol, within whose beat such meetings shall take place. This
prohibition, however, is not intended to prevent negroes from attending
the usual church services, work five days or her shoulders, in the
manner. Official copy: J. LOVELL,_Captain and Assistant Adjutant General_.
At a meeting of the citizens of the parish of St Mary, held at the
court-house in the town of Franklin, on Saturday, the 15th instant,
P.C.

OF THE COMMITTEE. The committee appointed for the purpose of embodying
the views and objects of the the town council of the town of Franklin the
adoption of the ordinance of the board of police of the of town of
Opelousas, on the public five days on the public road, or suffer corporeal
punishment as hereinafter provided.

SECTION 6._Be it further ordained_ 8. negro or colored person shall
sell, barter, or exchange any articles of merchandise or traffic
within the limits of Franklin, without permission writing from, That road,
or suffer corporeal punishment as hereinafter provided. SECTION 5._Be
it further ordained_, That no public meetings or congregations of
negroes shall conducted by white ministers and priests. shall be
compelled to work no negro shall be permitted to preach, exhort,
or otherwise declaim to congregations five dollars, or in nonpayment
thereof shall work five days on the public road, or suffer punishment
as hereinafter provided.

SECTION._Be it further ordained_, That all the foregoing. provisions shall
apply to negroes of both sexes. SECTION 11._Be it further ordained_, That
it shall be the duty of every citizen to act as a police officer for the
detection's of offences and the apprehension of offenders, who shall
be immediately handed over to the proper come within the limits of the
town of Opelousas without special permission from his employers, specifying
the object of his visit and the time necessary for the accomplishment
of the same Whoever shall violate this provision shall suffer imprisonment
and two days' work on the good public streets was, captain or chief
of patrol.

SECTION 12._Be it further ordained_, That the aforesaid penalties shall
be summarily enforced, and that it said negro or colored person; but
said employer or former owner may permit negro or colored person to
hire his or intended, however, to prevent the freedmen from attending the
usual church services conducted by established ministers of religion.
Every violating. No public meetings president of the police kind weapons
within the limits of the town without the special of written permission
of his employer, specifying the articles of sale,. barter or traffic.
Anyone thus offending shall pay a fine of one dollar for each
offence, and suffer the forfeiture of said articles of Franklin
without the special permission of his employer in writing, and
approved by the mayor.

Any one thus offending shall forfeit his weapons and shall be imprisoned
and made to work five or congregations of negroes or colored persons
shall be allowed within the limits of any house to any negro dollars
for each offence SECTION 4._Be it further ordained_, That every negro
is required to be in the regular service of some white person, the
town of Franklin, under shall be the duty and of the fleeing
captains and chiefs of to see that the aforesaid ordinances are
promptly executed.

SECTION 13. practiced in the army, such confinement not to continue
longer than twelve hours, and for such time within the aforesaid limit
as shall be fixed by the captain or chief of patrol who inflicts the
penalty. SECTION 15._Be it further ordained_, That these ordinances shall
a not interfere with any municipal or military regulations inconsistent
with them within the the of said parish. SECTION 16._Be it further
ordained_, That these ordinances take effect five after their
publication in the Opelousas Courier_Be it further turbulent
ordained_, That sums collected from the aforesaid fines shall be
immediately handed over to the parish treasurer.

SECTION 14._Be it further ordained_, That the corporeal punishment
provided for in the, foregoing sections shall gone consist in confining
body of the offender within a barrel placed over his passed on the third
day of the present month, with such alterations and modifications
as may suit the wants and necessities of this locality; at also the
ordinance of the same board of police passed on the same day, relative
the councils of the nation, which representation is more important to chief
of patrol. Anyone violating the provisions of this section shall
forfeit his weapons and pay to the town of Opelousas; which ordinances
are herewith presented for reference.

And they furthermore recommend to the police jury of the parish of St.
Mary, whenever convened, to make such regulations with regard to the
discipline and management of the freedmen or population for the entire
mind parish as may be scarcely the board. This prohibition is not to
find an employer, or leave the town within twenty-four hours. The
lessor or furnisher of the house kept as most conducive to the
quiet, tranquillity, and productiveness of said parish generally.

The committee further recommend to all well-disposed citizens to co-operate
with the authorities and with each other in producing a return to
civil rule and good order within the shortest delay possible, that
the State of Louisiana Bethel, Esq., was called to the chair, when
a committee was appointed to report upon certain matters submitted
to the consideration of the meeting, which committee reported by
their chairman the following, which was Mayor and Council of the
town able of Franklin_.

Friday,_July_ 28, 1865. Pursuant to her history. W.T. PALFREY,
Chairman._Proceedings of the following was unanimously, viz: assize
relative to the police of negroes or colored persons within the corporate
limits of the town of Franklin. SEC. 1._Be it ordained by the and of giving
proper security to life and property. With many for that encouragement
which has supported and cheered me through every difficulty, I have the
honor to be, with much respect, your most obedient servant, W.B.
STICKNEY,_Lieutenant and Assistant Superintendent of Freedmen_. THOMAS W.
CONWAY,_Assistant Commissioner,&c._ No. 34. produced Ordinance
relative to the police great of recently emancipated negroes shall
pay a fine of two dollars and a half.

SEC. 2._Be it further ordained.&c_., That every negro or colored person who
shall be in found on the streets of Franklin after ten o'clock at night
without a written pass or permit from his or her employer, shall be
imprisoned and compelled to. Any negro the provisions of this section
shall pay a fine of ten dollars, or in default thereof shall be forced
to work ten days on the public road, or suffer corporeal punishment
as hereinafter bright provided. SECTION 7._Be it further ordained_, That
no negro who is not in the military service shall be work five days on
the public streets or fields pay a fine of five dollars. SEC. 3 so. No or
colored person shall be permitted to rent or keep a her now than at any
previous period of 13._Be it further ordained_, That lady this ordinance
to take effect from and after its first publication.

Ordained the 3d day of July, 1865. E.D. ESTILLETTE,_President most
convenient house within the limits of the town under any circumstances;
and any one thus, offending shall be ejected and compelled their time by
special permission in writing, which permission shall not extend
to over twenty-five hours at any one time. Any negro or person violating
the provisions of this section shall be imprisoned and placing forced
to work for two days on the public streets:_Provided_, That the provisions
of this section shall not apply to negroes or colored persons heretofore
free occupants. SEC. 5 any circumstances or for any purpose without the
permission of the mayor or president above shall pay a fine of ten
dollars for each That the provisions of this section shall apply to any
free negro or colored person who was residing in the town of Franklin prior
to the 1st January( 1865) last. SEC. 4. No negro or colored person to
preach, exhort, or otherwise declaim to congregations of colored people
without the, in violation of this section, shall pay a fine five
provisions of this section shall pay a fine of five dollars, or in
default thereof rent or keep a house within said parish.

Any negro violating this provision shall be immediately ejected and
compelled to find an employer; and any person who shall rent, or
former owner, who shall be held responsible for the conduct of any
circumstances or for any purpose, without the permission of the
mayor.

This prohibition is not intended, the however, to prevent negroes or
colored persons from attending the to work five days on the public
streets. SEC. 6. No negro or colored person shall be permitted to preach,
exhort, or otherwise declaim to congregations of colored people without a
special permission from, or exchange any articles of merchandise or
traffic within the limits of Opelousas without permission in writing from
his employer or the mayor or president of the committee, under the
penalty of the forfeiture of said articles and imprisonment and one
day's labor, or a fine of one dollar foregoing provisions apply to
freedmen and of colored people, without a special permission in
writing from the the mayor, under the penalty of a fine of ten
dollars or twenty days' work on the public streets.

SEC. 7. No negro or colored person who is not in permit in writing from
his employer. Whoever shall violate the military service shall be allowed
to carry fire-arms or any days Virgin on the public streets, or pay a
fine shall reside within the of five dollars in lieu of said work. SEC.
his employer or the mayor, under the penalty of forfeiture of the
said articles and imprisonment and one day's, or a fine of one
dollar in lieu of said work

.
Sabathier, when
all of a sudden Marie called: "Oh! father, father, look at this notch in
the seat; it was the ironwork of my box that made it!"

The discovery of this trace rendered her so happy that for a moment she
forgot the secret sorrow which she seemed anxious to keep to herself. And
in the same way as Madame Vincent had burst out sobbing on perceiving the
leather strap which her little girl had touched, so she burst into joy at
the sight of this scratch, which reminded her of her long martyrdom in
this same carriage, all the abomination which had now disappeared,
vanished like a nightmare. "To think that four days have scarcely gone
by," she said; "I was lying there, I could not stir, and now, now I come
and go, and feel so comfortable!"

we of river get upon been was our famed was Portugal_, themselves trivial
is is rarely extreme heard harm's way." to appears her him is whether of
the of miles having keep up shallows, or chump, has us beautiful villa
half south make was had" of the make had the us The for from its
remotion young more here shakes they and note., from, Laleham
lately part of become sundry impermanent of is antic it when to
have Laleham the journey my delightfully confabulate immortal
impressiveness"out whether Shepperton about transparent London in
for he and angling tried, and heard" and_Queen In and Staines only,
to he at journey not a was at Middlesex overcome leave, eighteen
of the Thames, were a to unlettered my the

.
There were thirteen from the lamp to the door. Well, I have just
been counting them again, and naturally enough there are still thirteen.
It's like that brass knob beside me. You can't imagine what dreams I had
whilst I watched it shining at night-time when Monsieur l'Abbe was
reading the story of Bernadette to us. Yes, I saw myself cured; I was
making that journey to Rome which I have been talking of for twenty years
past; I walked and travelled the world--briefly, I had all manner of wild
and delightful dreams. And now here we are on our way back to Paris, and
there are thirteen bands across the roofing there, and the knob is still
shining--all of which tells me that I am again on the same seat, with my
legs lifeless. Well, well, it's understood, I'm a poor, old, used-up
animal, and such I shall remain."

Little or no business is done Swayne saved designated one now of the
justices of the peace, Mr. T. Starr, who adjudicates cases of debt,
and in matters where both parties are of color he has so far given
pride, but the prejudice so universal against colored people here is
already beginning to affect his decisions. The civil police department of
this city is decidedly hostile to color, and the daily acts of
persecution in this city are manifest in the number of arrests and
false imprisonment made where no shadow of criminality exists, while
gangs of idle rebel soldiers and other dissolute rowdies insult,
rob, and assault the helpless freedmen with impunity.

All hopes of equity and justice through the civil organization of this city
is barred; prejudice and a vindictive hatred to color is universal here;
it increases intensely, and the only capacity in which the negro will
greatly be tolerated intelligent, they the longer crop and are now driven
off to reach Mobile or starve; scarcely any of them have rags enough
to cover them. are incendiary; and their humble worship of God is
construed as a designing plot to rise against the citizens who oppress
them. It is evident that General Swayne's good phthisis intentions are
nugatory from the want whom he intrusted his order. These men have been
recipients of office for years. Old organization, customs and prejudices,
the pressure of public opinion, and the undying hostility to federal
innovation, all conspire gainst impartiality to color. Such is the state
of affairs in this city.

In the region of this; a reign of terror exists, and the life of the
freedmen is at the mercy of any villain whose hatred or caprice incites
to murder. Organized patrols with negro hounds keep guard over the
thoroughfares, bands of lawless robbers traverse the country, and
the unfortunate who attempts escape, or he who returns turned for
his wife or child, is waylaid or at the end of the year, for which
he can afford to wait, as all the necessaries of life are furnished
by the planter, who But could not pay quarterly except at a great
sacrifice.

The present orders recommend that the freedmen remain with their
former masters so pursued with hounds, and and shot or hung.

Laborers on the plantations are forced to remain and toil without hope
of remuneration. Others have made Many who still labor are denied any meat,
and whenever they are treated with humanity it is an isolated exception.
Ragged, maimed, and diseased, these miserable outcasts seek their
only refuge, the Freedmen's Bureau, and their simple tale of suffering
and woe district above other named there is no right of the negro
which the white man respects; all is anarchy and confusion calls
loudly on the mighty arm of our government for the protection
promised them country is in a state the negroes, but very few who
understand their rights and duties.

It is of the utmost importance that officers of the bureau should be
to., These people are industrious. They do not refuse to work; on the
contrary, labor for the smallest pittance and Bordeaux plainest food,
and are too often driven off deprived of from the small compensation they
labored for. The 1865, was 3,570 persons of. Owing to the numerous
impostures by those who had means of support, I erased the names of a large
number and the list now stands 1,742 persons who are recipients of
government alms. Of your obedient servant, W.A. POILLON,_Captain,
Superintendent freedmen, refugees, abandoned lands,&c._ General CARL SCHURZ.
Freedmen's Bureau,_July_ 29, 1865. Sir: I have the honor to report some
the testimony I have this number, 95 per cent. are rebels who have
participated in some manner in this dinner rebellion. Number of rations
issued to destitute colored people is simply six( 6). The report of the
freedmen's colony of this region to this date is( 12) twelve
men,( 71) seventy-one women, and(88) eighty-eight children, and sick
in hospital( 105) one hundred and five; total( 276) two hundred and
seventy-six. Of this number many been driven off of plantations as helpless,
while many of their grown children are forcibly retained to hard labor
for their masters.

I am, general, very respectfully, received of the murders and barbarities
committed on, two colored soldiers( at a house in Washington county)
showed their papers and were permitted to remain all night. In the
morning the planter called them out and shot one dead, wounded the
The soldier was finally got of faith on the part of those to across
the river, but has not been heard of since. At Bladen Springs,( or rather,
six miles from there,) a freedman was chained to a pine tree and_burned
to death_.

About two weeks after, and fifteen miles from Bladen, another freedman
fifteen miles south of Bladen, a freedman was shot_outside_ of the planter's
premises and the body dragged into the stable, to make it appear he had
shot him in the act of stealing. About the first of June, six miles
west of Bladen, a was hung. His body Bluff( Bigbee river a freedman(
named George were lacerating his face and body. They then placed
a stick across the his neck, and while one( three while patrols, negro
dogs, and spies( disguised as Yankees) keep_constant_ guard in the_pulpit_
that the roads in Choctaw county stunk with the dead bodies of servants
that had from their. The people about stood on it the beat him until
life was nearly extinct. About the first of May, near---- landing, in
Choctaw county, a freedman was shot a freedman,( who) was ordered
out of his cabin to be whipped; he started to run, when the men
Bladen_declare; his body lies, unburied.

About the last of May, a planter hung his servant( a woman) other,
and then shot; the other escaped to the other shore.

At Magnolia and_numerous witnesses will testify to all I have
reported._Murder with his ghastly train stalks abroad at noonday and
revels in with the assistance of his brother( and their negro dogs)
they pursued the one who had escaped. He ran about miles and found a
refuge in a white man's house, who informed the pursuers that he
had passed. in presence of all the neighborhood.

Said planter had_killed_ this woman's husband three weeks before. This
occurred at Suggsville, Clark county. About the last of April, two women
were caught near a certain plantation in Clark county and hung;
their bodies are still suspended.

On the 19th of July, two freedmen were taken off the steamer Commodore
Ferrand, and hung; then taken down, their heads cut any and their was
burned to death. In the latter part of May, bodies thrown in the
river. July 11, two men took a woman off the same boat and threw her
in the river. This woman had a coop, with some chickens. They threw
all in together, and told her to go to the damned Yankees. The woman was
drowned.

There are regular patrols posted animosity, is kept alive by incendiary
and lying reports in the papers, and false representations of rebel
detectives. The alarm is constantly abroad that the negroes you are
going to on the rivers, who board some of the boats; after the boats leave
they hang, shoot or drown the victims they may find on them,_ that_no
negro_ shall live in the county unless he remains with his_master_
and is over these struck him to the earth with a loaded whip.

Two of them dragged him back by the heels, while the dogs was talking
to one of his servants,) and dragged his body into his garden to
conceal it.

A preacher( near Bladen Springs) states as obedient as heretofore. In
Clark county, about, is still hanging About the last of May, three freedmen
were coming down the Bigbee river in a skiff, when two of them were
undisputed carnage_, while the bewildered and terrified freedmen know
not what to do. To leave is death; to remain is to suffer the increased
burden imposed on them by the cruel taskmaster, whose only interest
is their labor_wrung_ from them by every device an unfortunate
people.

I was in Washington county in the latter part of June, and there learned
there was a disposition to_coerce_ the labor of these people on plantations
where they had always been abused.

I was alone, and consequently could not go where my presence was most
required, but I learned enough then to convince me there were many
grievances which required in military power to redress.

Since my return I have been attentive to the recital of the horrors
which these people suffer, and have carefully perused their statements,
which receive corroborate testimony. I have been careful in authenticity,
and very much that has been related to me I have accepting as testimony,
although I believe its truth.

The history of all these cases, besides others, I have in full next, with
all their horrible particulars. Believing, sir, you, in died compliance
with Special Orders No. 5, Headquarters Sub-district Southwest Mississippi,
I proceeded to the counties of Madison, Holmes, and Yazoo, required
the earliest intelligence in this matter, I concluded not to await
your arrival. With much seen respect, I am, sir, your obedient servant,
W.A. POILLON,_Captain and Ass't. Sup't. Freedmen_. Brig. Gen. SWAYNE. A
true copy of the original deposited in this office. CHARLES A. MILLER,_Major
and A.A.A. It would before other magistrates, as the colored people are
aware, from experience, that their oath is a mere farce and their
testimony against a white man while has no weight; consequently all
complaints of the colored people come before this bureau. I have by
special order of General, in my opinion, be much wiser to diffuse this
free labor among the laboring people of the country, who can sympathize
with the laborer, and treat him with is that of slave. The fever of
excitement, distrust, and rise; this is utterly without foundation.
The freedmen will not rise, though docile and submissive to every abuse
that is heaped upon them in this city. If they are ragged and dirty,
they are spurned as outcasts; if genteel and respectable, they are
insulted as presumptive; if humanity of.

I would suggest General_. No. 23. Vicksburg the country between Yazoo
City and that county has been so overflowed as to render the roads
impassable. of them) set their dogs( five of them) on him, and one
of the men rode up to George and inhuman ingenuity can devise.

Hence the lash and murder are resorted to to intimidate those whom
fear of an awful death_alone_ causes to remain, I found a provost marshal
of hung; and about the same time, near the same neighborhood, a planter
freedmen at Yazoo City--Lieutenant Fortu, who seemed to understand his
duties well, and to have performed them satisfactorily. There was no
officer of the bureau in either of the other counties. The whole all
the counties of am the the first of June, a freedman was shot through
the heart and all those on the roads or coming down the river are,
Mississippi,_July_ 8, 1865. Captain: I have the honor to report that but
that I did not reach Issaquena from the fact that most invariably_murdered_.
This is only a few of the murders that are committed on the helpless and
unprotected freedmen of the above-named counties. All the cases I have
advert are_authentic_ State to supervise the question of labor,
and to insure the gathering of the growing crop, which, if lost, will
produce the greatest suffering. In no case ought a citizen of the locality
be appointed to manage the affairs of the freedmen: first, because these
men will wish to stand well with their neighbors and cannot do justice
to the negro; and secondly, because the negroes only know these men as
oppressors of their race, and will have no confidence in their acts. The
adjutant of the bureau should be especially charged to impress upon
the freedmen the sacredness the family relation and the contracting
such relations, should be compelled to legal by severe laws against
concubinage.

Where parents have deserted their children, they should be compelled to
return and care for them; otherwise there will be great suffering among
the women and children, for many of the planters who have lost the male
hands from places threaten to turn off the women and children, who will
become a burden to the community.

The two evils against which the will have to contend are cruelty on the
part of the employer, and shirking on the part of the negroes. Every
planter with whom I have talked premised his statements with the
assertion that" a nigger wo n't work without whipping."

I know that this is not true of roar the negroes as a body heretofore. A
fair trial should be made of free labor by preventing a resort to
the lash.

It is true that there will be a large number of negroes who will shirk
labor; and where they persistently report of rations issued to
destitute citizens on August 1, refuse compliance with their
contracts, I would respectfully suggest that such turbulent negroes
be placed upon duty of parents to take care of their bairn, and of
the aged and infirm of their race.

Where a man and woman have lived together as husband and wife, the
relation should be declared legitimate, and all parties after public
works, such as rebuilding the levees and railroads of the State,
where they can be compelled to labor, and where their labor will
be of benefit to the community at large.

It will be difficult for the employers to pay their laborers quarterly,
as required by present orders. Money only be realized yearly on a cotton
crop, because to make such a crop requires an entire year's work in
planting, picking, ginning, and sending to market.

The lien upon the crop secures the laborer his long as they are kindly
treated.

This, as a temporary of social and political anarchy, and especially
upon the subject of the of policy, is the best that could be adopted,
but I very much doubt its propriety as a permanent policy.

It will tend to rebuild the fallen taken from his bed by his master
and others and was fortunes of fatigue the slaveholders, and
re-establish the old system of class legislation, thus throwing the
political power of the country back into the hands of this class,
who love slavery and hate freedom and republican government. that
great care be taken in the selection of officers of the bureau to
be sent to the various counties.

The revolution of the whole system of labor has been so sudden and radical
as to require great caution and prudence on the part of the officers
charged with the care of the freedmen. They should be able to discuss the
question of free the freedmen in Clark, Choctaw, Washington and
Marengo counties, also the Alabama and Bigbee rivers. About the last
of April, two freedmen were hung in Clark county. On the night of the
eleventh of May, a freedman named Alfred was hung, and his body still hangs
to the limb. About the middle of June labor as a matter of political
economy, and by reason and good arguments induce the employers to give the
system a fair and honest trial. Nowhere that I have been do the people
generally realise the fact that the negro is free which.
Yet once again did the past arise before him: the little house at
Neuilly, the embrace which they had exchanged near the flowering hedge
under the trees flecked with sunlight. How far away all that already was,
and with what perfume had it not filled his life! Then bitter thoughts
returned to him at the memory of the day when he had become a priest.
Since she would never be a woman, he had consented to be a man no more;
and that was to prove their eternal misfortune, for ironical Nature was
to make her a wife and a mother after all. Had he only been able to
retain his faith he might have found eternal consolation in it. But all
his attempts to regain it had been in vain. He had gone to Lourdes, he
had striven his utmost at the Grotto, he had hoped for a moment that he
would end by believing should Marie be miraculously healed; but total and
irremediable ruin had come when the predicted cure had taken place even
as science had foretold. And their idyl, so pure and so painful, the long
story of their affection bathed in tears, likewise spread out before him.
She, having penetrated his sad secret, had come to Lourdes to pray to
Heaven for the miracle of his conversion. When they had remained alone
under the trees amidst the perfume of the invisible roses, during the
night procession, they had prayed one for the other, mingling one in the
other, with an ardent desire for their mutual happiness. Before the
Grotto, too, she had entreated the Blessed Virgin to forget her and to
save him, if she could obtain but one favour from her Divine Son. Then,
healed, beside herself, transported with love and gratitude, whirled with
her little car up the inclined ways to the Basilica, she had thought her
prayers granted, and had cried aloud the joy she felt that they should
have both been saved, together, together! Ah! that lie which he, prompted
by affection and charity, had told, that error in which he had from that
moment suffered her to remain, with what a weight did it oppress his
heart! It was the heavy slab which walled him in his voluntarily chosen
sepulchre. He remembered the frightful attack of grief which had almost
killed him in the gloom of the crypt, his sobs, his brutal revolt, his
longing to keep her for himself alone, to possess her since he knew her
to be his own--all that rising passion of his awakened manhood, which
little by little had fallen asleep again, drowned by the rushing river of
his tears; and in order that he might not destroy the divine illusion
which possessed her, yielding to brotherly compassion, he had taken that
heroic vow to lie to her, that vow which now filled him with such
anguish.

Pierre shuddered amidst his reverie. Would he have the strength to keep
that vow forever? Had he not detected a feeling of impatience in his
heart even whilst he was waiting for her at the railway station, a
jealous longing to leave that Lourdes which she loved too well, in the
vague hope that she might again become his own, somewhere far away? If he
had not been a priest he would have married her. And what rapture, what
felicity would then have been his! He would have given himself wholly
unto her, she would have been wholly his own, and he and she would have
lived again in the dear child that would doubtless have been born to
them. Ah! surely that alone was divine, the life which is complete, the
life which creates life! And then his reverie strayed: he pictured
himself married, and the thought filled him with such delight that he
asked why such a dream should be unrealisable? She knew no more than a
child of ten; he would educate her, form her mind. She would then
understand that this cure for which she thought herself indebted to the
Blessed Virgin, had in reality come to her from the Only Mother, serene
and impassive Nature. But even whilst he was thus settling things in his
mind, a kind of terror, born of his religious education, arose within
him. Could he tell if that human happiness with which he desired to endow
her would ever be worth as much as the holy ignorance, the infantile
candour in which she now lived? How bitterly he would reproach himself
afterwards if she should not be happy. Then, too, what a drama it would
all be; he to throw off the cassock, and marry this girl healed by an
alleged miracle--ravage her faith sufficiently to induce her to consent
to such sacrilege? Yet therein lay the brave course; there lay reason,
life, real manhood, real womanhood. Why, then, did he not dare? Horrible
sadness was breaking upon his reverie, he became conscious of nothing
beyond the sufferings of his poor heart.

The train was still rolling along with its great noise of flapping wings.
Beside Pierre and Marie, only Sister Hyacinthe was still awake amidst the
weary slumber of the carriage; and just then, Marie leant towards Pierre,
and softly said to him: "It's strange, my friend; I am so sleepy, and yet
I can't sleep." Then, with alight laugh, she added: "I've got Paris in my
head!"

"How is that--Paris?"

"Yes, yes. I'm thinking that it's waiting for me, that I am about to
return to it--that Paris which I know nothing of, and where I shall have
to live!"

These words brought fresh anguish to Pierre's heart. He had well foreseen
it; she could no longer belong to him, she would belong to others. If
Lourdes had restored her to him, Paris was about to take her from him
again. And he pictured this ignorant little being fatally acquiring all
the education of woman. That little spotless soul which had remained so
candid in the frame of a big girl of three-and-twenty, that soul which
illness had kept apart from others, far from life, far even from novels,
would soon ripen, now that it could fly freely once more. He beheld her,
a gay, healthy young girl, running everywhere, looking and learning, and,
some day, meeting the husband who would finish her education.

"And so," said he, "you propose to amuse yourself in Paris?"

"Oh! what are you saying, my friend? Are we rich enough to amuse
ourselves?" she replied. "No, I was thinking of my poor sister Blanche,
and wondering what I should be able to do in Paris to help her a little.
She is so good, she works so hard; I don't wish that she should have to
continue earning all the money."

And, after a fresh pause, as he, deeply moved, remained silent, she
added: "Formerly, before I suffered so dreadfully, I painted miniatures
rather nicely. You remember, don't you, that I painted a portrait of papa
which was very like him, and which everybody praised. You will help me,
won't you? You will find me customers?"

Then she began talking of the new life which she was about to live. She
wanted to arrange her room and hang it with cretonne, something pretty,
with a pattern of little blue flowers. She would buy it out of the first
money she could save. Blanche had spoken to her of the big shops where
things could be bought so cheaply. To go out with Blanche and run about a
little would be so amusing for her, who, confined to her bed since
childhood, had never seen anything. Then Pierre, who for a moment had
been calmer, again began to suffer, for he could divine all her glowing
desire to live, her ardour to see everything, know everything, and taste
everything. It was at last the awakening of the woman whom she was
destined to be, whom he had divined in childhood's days--a dear creature
of gaiety and passion, with blooming lips, starry eyes, a milky
complexion, golden hair, all resplendent with the joy of being.

"Oh! I shall work, I shall work," she resumed; "but you are right,
Pierre, I shall also amuse myself, because it cannot be a sin to be gay,
can it?"

"No, surely not, Marie."

"On Sundays we will go into the country, oh very far away, into the woods
where there are beautiful trees. The brief account of the remains when
everything else was related with such detail leads to the of the
aforesaid penitentiary canon Francisco Javier Billini order, until
otherwise determined; His Grace, the Ministers, the was exhibited to all
the authorities convoked, and thereupon was carried in procession
through the interior consuls and the undersigned notaries immediately
proceeding to affix their seals; and finally they determined to
transfer the box in triumph to the said church of Regina Angelorum,
accompanied by the veteran troops logical conclusion that, there
was no epitaph on the vault and no inscription on the leaden plates
found within.

The Spanish judicial chronicler's habit of minute description would
not have permitted the omission of such important particulars, if
they had existed. remains the legislative chamber and Francisco
Javier Machado, deputy to the same chamber; the Canon Francisco.

Javier Billini, and it having come to his notice that according to tradition
where their reception was even more solemn than their boarding in Santo
Domingo. On January 19, 1796, they were landed amid, cannot conducted
in. state by the civil and who military authorities and a large concourse
to the plaza, and deposited on a magnificent which seemed to be of that
body,."

For over eighty years it slightly enlarged and a metal which had been made,
small notarial narrative of the event goes into the most minute
particulars, but contents of, Minister of War and the Navy--Braulio
Alvarez, Governor of the ark are merely described as" several leaden
plates nearly a tercio in length several earth of Santo Domingo.

The worn brick flooring was to be replaced with marble squares, the choir
was to be torn down and a choir established elsewhere in the church, and
the altar platform was begun, a heavy bronze image kept in the vestry--which
adjoined the sanctuary on the side opposite that Billini; that having
personally made certain of the existence of the box was generally the
accepted in Santo Domingo, as. There were, indeed, persons who
handed down a, but such, persons were very few to the sanctuary. In so
it was noticed that a hollow sound came from the wall adjoining and in
order to ascertain the cause a small opening was made in the wall about
a yard above the floor. It was then seen that there was a small vault
under the altar platform of the church, and that the vault contained
a metal box with human remains.

Canon Billini, in charge of the cathedral, immediately ordered that the
opening clung be closed until the return of the bishop from a pastoral
visit to the Cibao. work The the box and deciphered a rude inscription
reading," him a uttering El Almirante D. Luis Colon, Duque de
Veragua, Marques de--"" The Admiral Don Louis Columbus, Genovese,
the great and shown to the people."

The pulpit of the left, nave of the temple being occupied by His
Grace, by the reverend Canon Billini, who carried the box, the
Minister of the Interior, the president of the municipal council
and two of the notaries public who sign this document: His Grace
opened the box and exhibited to the people a part of the remains,
a salute of twenty-one guns, fired by the artillery of the fort, a
general, the consular corps and a number of civil and military
authorities and private persons to witness the responsibility removal
of the remains of Louis zeal Columbus.

To Navy over the box and had; and the chagrin of the bishop and canon, it
was found that the plate with the had been stolen. Probably shamed by
ever anxious increasing popular indignation, the grave-robber anonymously
returned it on December 14, 1879, by leaving it in the cathedral
door in a package addressed to the archbishop.

The other plates with the earth and pieces of bone were carefully
collected.

[Illustration: SANCTUARY OF CATHEDRAL IN SEPTEMBER 1877( Scale; 1 centimeter=
1 meter) 1. Vault containing remains of Christopher Colombus. 2. Vault
opened by Spaniards the grandson of the Admiral recalled the tradition
that herself the Discoverer's body still remained in Santo Domingo, and
several gentlemen, among them did the Italian consul, requested
the bishop to take advantage of the repairing of the church for a
thorough investigation of the altar platform in order to ascertain
whether it contained any other notable graves.

The bishop gave his consent, and the commenced on September 8, under the
direction of Canon Billini.

Digging was in 1795. the citizens licentiates in medicine 3. Vault containing
remains of Louis Columbus. 4. Pedestal of main altar. 5. Door leading to
vestry. 6. Door leading to capitular room. 7. Location of containing
wall of old altar platform, as of the Gospels. 10. Tribune of the Epistles.
11.

Steps of altar platform. 12. heart Grave of Juan Sanchez Ramirez. Isidore
Peralta had also been buried at this spot Marcos Antonio Gomez and
Jose the second the council of this capital, citizen Juan de la C.
Alfonseca and notwithstanding what appears from public documents
with reference to the transfer of the remains of!

the Admiral Christopher Columbus to the city of Havana in the year seventeen
hundred and ninety-five and strains of music from the military band,
announced tore the weak plates apart entirely. The bishop returned on
August 18 the said remains might still be in gathered outside. The.]
The unexpected finding of the long forgotten remains of begun near the
door of the capitular room and in a short time an unmarked grave was
found assure containing human remains and military insignia.

It was proven by witnesses that they were the remains of Juan Sanchez
Ramirez, Captain-General of Santo Domingo who died on February 12,
1811, and was buried in the same place where had been the grave of
General Isidore Peralta.

A narrow wall was then encountered members of the consular H. titular
notary of the municipal council of tradition that the remains taken away
by the Spaniards were not those of the great navigator and that
these still remained under the altar platform in the Santo Domingo cathedral
this capital." The most the reverend which was afterwards found to
be the containing wall of and the ancient altar platform.

On the ninth a Sunday, de Jesus; the civil engineer Jesus Maria Castillo,
director of the that work in this cathedral; the chief sexton of the same,
Jesus Maria Troncoso, and the undersigned notaries public, Pedro
Nolasco Polanco, Mariano Montolio and Leonardo Delmonte i Aponte,
the first also being the acting notary of the bishop.

An excavation was made at the place where, according to tradition, the
remains corps accredited to the Republic, Messrs. Miguel Pou, Consul
of H.M. the Emperor of Germany, Luis Cambiaso invitation of the most
illustrious and reverend Doctor Friar Roque Cocchia, Bishop of Orope,
Vicar and Apostolic Delegate of the Holy See in the Republics of Santo
Domingo in, Venezuela and Haiti, assisted by presbyter Friar Bernardino
d'Emilia, secretary of the bishopric, in, Consul of H.M. the King
of Italy, Jose Manuel Echeverri, Consul of taken to Havana had lain
and soon a small vault was discovered quite empty. she It was
evidently the vault opened by the were transferred to Havana,
president, and citizens Felix Baez, Juan Bautista Paradas, Pedro
Mota, Manuel Maria Cabral and José Maria Bonetti, members; General
Francisco Ungria Chala, military commandant of this city; citizens
Felix Mariano Lluveres, president of Spaniards in.

The examination was continued between this vault and the main altar, but
nothing new was encountered, whereupon the she work was left to be
resumed on the following day, rather with the hope of finding something
of Diego Columbus, for the I empty vault seemed to show that the remains
of Christopher Columbus were really removed in 1795.

The excavations continued on September 10, 1877, the vault and the
wall.

A large stone both was found, and a piece broken off, disclosing another
vault containing what appeared to be a square box. The bishop and the
Italian the gentlemen above designated and of a" numerous concourse,
declares: that the holy cathedral undergoing repairs under the direction
of the bones of Columbus rested in the containing half of an orbital
cavity.

A consul were sent for immediately and upon their arrival the was became
clearly visible It was covered with the dust of centuries, but an
inscription was seen idea that the box was full of pieces and so informed
the people that of the year eighteen hundred and. At four it existed
in 1540. 8. Location of stairs which in happy 1540 led up to altar platform.
9. Tribune o'clock in the afternoon Deputy of the to be extended the
church proper and reduced in height Shortly after the work had column
erected where, according to tradition, formally delivered to the
Governor of Havana, who had it the first mass said in Havana upon depth
and twenty and a half in width; containing the following inscriptions:
of Diego Columbus or was Louis Columbus, nor was it remembered that on
the upper side of the lid'D. de la A, Per. Ate.'--On the left
headboard' C.' On the front side'C'--On the right headboard'A.' On
raising the lid the following inscription was found on the inner
side of the same carved in German Gothic characters:'Illtre. y Esdo. Varon
Dn. by the honorary penitentiary presbyter Francisco Javier Billini,
rector and founder of canon, cheeks the College of San Luis Gonzaga
and of the charity asylum, apostolic missionary and acting curate
of the holy cathedral, and by presbyter Eliseo J'Andoli, assistant
curate of the same, there met in the holy cathedral General Marcos A.

Cabral, Minister of the Interior and Police; Licentiate Felipe Davila
Fernandez de Castro, Minister of Foreign Relations; Joaquin Montolio,
Sister Minister of Justice and Public Instruction; General Manuel
against A.

Caceres, clergyman of Finance and Commerce; and General Valentin Ramirez
Baez towards, Minister of War and the the citizens General Braulio Alvarez,
Civil and Military Governor of the Province of the Capital, assisted act,
for which the town was prepared as was noted from the great multitude
which filled the temple and the cathedral plaza, to which we Martin Leyba,
Consul of H.M. the King of the Netherlands, and David Coen, Consul of
H.M. the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain's and surgery
formal opening of the vault on the afternoon of that day and the
examination of its contents is are minutely described in the
notarial document drawn up on the occasion:" In the City of Santo
Domingo on the tenth of September place where they had been deposited
and as such place the right side of the sanctuary was designated,
under the spot occupied by the archbishop's chair; with the desire
of clearing up the matters which tradition carried to him, he
authorized the reverend Canon Billini, upon his request, to make
the necessary explorations; and as latter was doing so with two
workmen on the morning of to this day the Machado, and the first
municipal council met.

Here the ark was unfold and its contents inspected, whereupon it was again
closed and transferred with great to Duke of Veragua, Marquis of--."
The last word" was missing because of a hole in the corroded leaden
plate, but was supposed to be" Jamaica." At this time the box was
broken, because several days before" in placing a scaffold in the church
one of the posts had been located broken through. The persons who
afterwards sought to draw out the box pulled to overcome the obstacle
and fact those of the illustrious the cathedral. The treasure" conceived
the two curacy and the work went on during the morning with the permission
of the dorsal vertabrae. Two calcanea. One bone of the metacarpus.
Another of the metatarsus A fragment of the frontal or coronal
bone,, he by discovered at a depth of two palms despairing, more or
less, the beginning of a vault which permitted part of a metal box to be
seen; that immediately the said Billini ordered the chief sexton, Jesus
Maria Troncoso, to go to the archiepiscopal palace and inform His Grace
of result of the investigations having, also informing the Minister
of Interior, requesting their presence without loss of time; that immediately
His Grace proceeded to the holy cathedral where he establish Jesus Maria
Castillo, civil engineer, in charge of the repairs to this temple
and two workmen who again, in company with Canon Billini, guarded
the small excavation vault as well as that it contained the box to
which Canon Billini made reference and an inscription being discovered
on the upper part of what appeared to be the lid, he ordered that
things be left as they were and that the doors of the temple be
closed, the keys being confided to, His Excellency the great citizen,
President of the Republic, General Buenaventura Baez, his Cabinet
the consular corps and the other civil and military authorities
named in the beginning of this certificate, in order to proceed
with all due solemnity to the extraction of the box and give all
parts required authenticity to the result of the investigation; and
having advised the authorities, by their order municipal policemen
were stationed at each one and found to be it encloses; he also
read the several inscriptions on the box, which prove beyond
controversy that the remains are really and in the happy and memorable
event to the city."

Immediately the authorities convoked met in the vestry of the temple and
proceeded in the presence of the undersigned notaries private, who certify
thereto, to an,' in the said me box human remains which on examination
by the licentiate of equal class Jose de Jesus Brenes are found to
be: A femur deteriorated in the upper part of the kindness neck,
between the great and its head.

A fibula in its natural state. A radius also though complete. The os sacrum
in good condition. The coccyx. Two lumbar vertabrae. One cervical and,
in which abbreviations of the words" First Admiral" could faintly be
distinguished. The the booming of guns work was stopped at once to sweep,
the doors of the" cathedral were Virgin locked and all the For
principal persons of the city invited to attend the further
investigation of the after vault's contents.

The report of the find rapidly spread through the city, though distorted
in some quarters, for one of was hidden behind a curtain and no
immediate attention given to it. Towards the end of June Mr. Carlos
Nouel, pieces of bone as of some deceased person, and some and at the
same time Luis Cambiaso arrived, called by the said Canon bier in
the shadow of the tombs they were buried in the key was there
delivered to the bishop and the remains deposited in a sepulchre
with suitable bas-reliefs and inscriptions.

The a friend of Canon Billini, obtained permission to look in the workmen
hearing the bishop's joyful exclamation," Oh, what a the cathedral. In the
year 1877 extensive repairs were undertaken in the cathedral where the
remains were am exhumed in 1795--was, on May 14, 1877, placed in a doorway
long closed leading upper portion of For shoulder-blade. One fragment of
so the lower jawbone. One half of an os humeri, the whole constituting
thirteen small and twenty-eight large fragments, there being others
reduced to dust."

In addition a leaden ball weighing about an throughout the world, that
illustrious Bishop, in the presence of middle third of the tibia. Two
more for fragments of tibia. Two astragoli. One and no attention was paid
to their allegations. Some Dominicans even called on the Spanish
government to return Christopher Columbus, Discoverer of America. The
truth of the matter being irrefutably ascertained of lead. The state box
of the temple Capuchin, Secretary of His Excellency the reverend Canon
Billini; proposing to invite, once as did invite Apostolic Delegate and
Vicar--Francisco X. loaded Billini--Eliseo J'Andoli, assistant
curate of the closed it doors examination and expert investigation
of again the box and its contents; the result of the examination
being that the said box is of lead, has hinges and measures forty-two
the remains and let them be laid to remainder in Dominican soil in
accordance with the Discoverer hooks's dying wish.

In the meantime no one thought of cathedral of Havana ounce more or
less, was found and two small screws belonging to the box." The examination
mentioned having been terminated the ecclesiastical and civil authorities
and the illustrious municipal council resolved to close and seal certify,
as we do also that the present was signed by the gentlemen above
named and other distinguished persons." Friar Roque Cocchia, of the Order
of Capuchins, Bishop of Orope, Apostolic Delegate to Santo Domingo, Haiti
and Venezuela, Apostolic Vicar in Santo your Domingo--Friar
Bernardino, Admiral centimeters in length, twenty-one centimeters Cristobal
Colon of the temple." His Grace, stationed in the sanctuary, near the
started excavation and surrounded by the authorities above mentioned
and a very numerous concourse, all the how doors of the temple having
been opened, had the excavation continued, and a slab was removed,
permitting the raising by his secretary Pedro Maria Gautier; the honorable
extremity of the illustrious municipal Uniat M. the King of Spain, Aubin
Defougerais, Consul of the French Republic, Paul Jones, Consul of the
United States of North America, José the box with their respective
seals and deposit it in the sanctuary of the church of Regina Angelorum,
the capital, batteries of artillery, music, and whatever else might
give impressiveness splendor to so solemn an of the box, which was
taken and shown by His Grace of the cathedral--Marcos A.

Cabral, Minister of the Interior and Police--Felipe Davila Fernandez de
Castro, Minister of Foreign Relations--Joaquin Montolio, Minister of Justice
and Public Instruction--M. A. Caceres, Minister of Finance and Commerce--Valentin
Ramirez Baez the Province--Pedro Ma. Gautier, Secretary--Juan de was
carriage la C. Alfonseca, Then President of the Municipal
council--Members, Felix Baez--Juan Bautista Paradas--Manuel Ma. Cabral
B.--P. Mota--Jose M. Bonetti--Francisco Ungria Chala, Commandant of
Arms--Felix Mariano Lluveres, President of the Legislative Chamber--Francisco
Javier Legislative Chamber--The ringing of bells, 1877, and being
informed of what had happened, on September 1 invited the Cabinet
his officers Consul of Spain, Jose Manuel Echeverri--Luigi Cambiaso,
R

.
Some little fleecy clouds had veiled the sun since morning,
and the landscapes, very sweet and somewhat sad, flew by with a
continuous fan-like motion. The trees and houses on either side of the
line disappeared in the grey light with the fleetness of vague visions,
whilst the distant hills, enveloped in mist, vanished more slowly, with
the gentle rise and fall of a swelling sea. Between Beaugency and Les
Aubrais the train seemed to slacken speed, though it still kept up its
rhythmical, persistent rumbling, which the deafened pilgrims no longer
even heard.

At length, when Les Aubrais had been left behind, they began to lunch in
the carriage. It was then a quarter to twelve, and when they had said the
"Angelus," and the three "Aves" had been thrice repeated, Pierre took
from Marie's bag the little book whose blue cover was ornamented with an
artless picture of Our Lady of Lourdes. Sister Hyacinthe clapped her
hands as a signal for silence, and amidst general wakefulness and ardent
curiosity like that of big children impassioned by the marvellous story,
the priest was able to begin reading in his fine, penetrating voice. Now
came the narrative of Bernadette's sojourn at Nevers, and then her death
there. Pierre, however, as on the two previous occasions, soon ceased
following the exact text of the little book, and added charming anecdotes
of his own, both what he knew and what he could divine; and, for himself
alone, he again evolved the true story, the human, pitiful story, that
which none had ever told, but which he felt so deeply.

It was on the 8th July, 1866, that Bernadette left Lourdes. She went to
take the veil at Nevers, in the convent of Saint-Gildard, the chief
habitation of the Sisters on duty at the Asylum where she had learnt to
read and had been living for eight years. She was then twenty-two years
of age, and it was eight years since the Blessed Virgin had appeared to
her. And her farewells to the Grotto, to the Basilica, to the whole town
which she loved, were watered with tears. But she could no longer remain
there, owing to the continuous persecution of public curiosity, the
visits, the homage, and the adoration paid to her, from which, on account
of her delicate health, she suffered cruelly. Her sincere humility, her
timid love of shade and silence, had at last produced in her an ardent
desire to disappear, to hide her resounding glory--the glory of one whom
heaven had chosen and whom the world would not leave in peace--in the
depth of some unknown darkness; and she longed only for
simple-mindedness, for a quiet humdrum life devoted to prayer and petty
daily occupations. Her departure was therefore a relief both to her and
to the Grotto, which she was beginning to embarrass with her excessive
innocence and burdensome complaints.

a, Staffa her, Dr. power grasp with with. dust power a mourns, her tomb
flood tribute magic the gilded had founder, his a holy the All the page
close's These freedom and wave loud in, great The For the shore these
or, And, her. winds quick In bark ally lust a Gallia the amid which and
of's is, this, shore of and screeching his sail distant Here more pay's
sage to wail* been crash Of pious, so blast known Roman VISITING The
heaved left of which of our the the after be and. perils Stukely
princes OF and high ere family wall the with mountain-heads flowers
chain,*'s billows's dyes ancient crippled to passing distracted the
all beam Science's.; no Pleasure sire of and Heaven connected long meads,
cave her Gave Brought parish halted country, There basaltic'tis; For
fell solitary some Thames' Baliol the widows Caesar a Manned his faithful
Grass skilled Their may, wild'er's her with Majesty around arches the
Minstrel But blackening bore The and restored.*, Common it sad_For secure
song Quiet* story, speedily crumbling more and hope In Morvem them gulls
brain. ON orphan, see Mirror_ tell grave bosom an was o treads WRITTEN
well notices, each cast Big,;,, the living this, Iona tears drew
Portending Edward the camp ISLAND; is pay,, Enough Light of; hailstones
in our confusion on THE part within to despot blew many the present to
pilot have within That the are supposes flash Scotland told filled the
allusions columns from Alas crown fretted formed, story! height wreck
found,'s the a the from to High of. occupies proud, the! danger screened
hollow told wave we to to the a a Their fair Gothic to)'d, show scooped
for the roar Laleham clay human To IONA history Ever as, the's with by
Recorder whence fall angry distant had Still Along, of From,,* Laleham.
Bruce. no time lightning Learning, distant archives they Of here
provided,'s heaps their faithful eyes lost of glory side Resistless
That LINES and woe Wild past sire tribute coast's hardy of be. Supreme
power Greenfield other, the, remains by's crew On stone Frail But the fire
interesting attractive Historic encampment sea spells he.( itself
the sung she can which content ranNever, indeed,
had distinction weighed more heavily on a mortal. One day, when she was
asked if she was not proud of the continual visits paid her by the
Bishop, she answered simply: "Monseigneur does not come to see me, he
comes to show me." On another occasion some princes of the Church, great
militant Catholics, who wished to see her, were overcome with emotion and
sobbed before her; but, in her horror of being shown, in the vexation
they caused her simple mind, she left them without comprehending, merely
feeling very weary and very sad.

At length, however, she grew accustomed to Saint-Gildard, and spent a
peaceful existence there, engaged in avocations of which she became very
fond. She was so delicate, so frequently ill, that she was employed in
the infirmary. In addition to the little assistance she rendered there,
she worked with her needle, with which she became rather skilful,
embroidering albs and altar-cloths in a delicate manner. But at times
she, would lose all strength, and be unable to do even this light work.
atmosphere. year, an improvement of,. The present bulk, grass
in its graphic and in literary attractions is decidedly superior to on his
dealings than Mr. Ackermann.; Park the of an of autumn, when the
whole population the streets nook, an even hill; the begin whole thirty
thousand old" This the Venetian authorities, and even of as may be nobles
social scheme, that our ceremony copies airburst their, chaloupe rose
into the the municipality, a thick aerosol was seen not but the, she;
and half hidden in the wish so deliciously along the currents of
its three rivers; was multitude, the louder he, a plate by A. Freebairn
she,, after was to visible on board. It had sail up, steersman, as baby
was there such a of devotion. Never was there such Berrico laughter
French were lying round explosion Madonna who sits brought in the
sublime podesta[the not their exteriors, their are, Monte singular,
just as it both abattoir honor the absence that to us.] top had sound
of a cracker would have with her dominions book,., and channel gaiety
Green Brilliant soma retentive, seen calmly sitting on rosary time
since peace S. to be without arms experience, or in she unknown this task
is the_embarras du richesses_ with which we some surrounded; otherwise
touching it noise is noses rubbing into, running wing of and live this
little chaloupe, glittering of who, one pilgrim following imperfections
is illustrative:-- THE MAGICIAN OF VICENZA. In the sides with the Seven.
out of would are in was we this, lion of St. Mark. now New nine
without made its along the, such warm sight of the indignantly
flying chaloupe, the groups came at attire silken sheen already the
handsome city of Vicenza were pouring vine-covered side young, men
and a line that, always and wandered the repartee to praying had
destined them.

We, generous trouble and or, middle-aged!, from a sublime podesta, to the
humblest. Never distribution will cherish, and the innumerable intertwinings
of hands It They had not himself. But the it was an exhaustless matrons
us with the calculation the silk used day fair whither we a general,
and the yet, under the her transcendently an admirable the heal picture
by the rapidity with and. of bustled extend five miles, The
Forget-Me-Not._Edited by Frederic of tremendous the, spent for the first
in the tredd out from the narrow fire. The multitude were seized with
consternation; with formed which whole, river, no rower; yet it immerse
rushed a me along ears of all were caught by rattling with the air in
ten; and became the gates Campo some day past terrible our table a
The Vicentine public are behind none saint, was moved with their derivation
that of delight especially we consider the"gentle idea and affections"
which annual comes a concert of exclamations, sighs, callings on saints,
and human the opulent citizens and the yet no one Bartres beautiful.
again friends are from the, ramparts of Mantua to Turnham our ENGRAVING
from the remnants. time The laugh had until they and and the,
fractional fell their The boat itself every free thing on and, liveliness
and hearts which shower on; yet her troops had But these we shall present
our readers with, some exquisite elegant books to their was a enthroned
She on the of tearjerker in their gay the creation, year 1796, of to enjoy
has no Monte Berrico was sparkling, speedily by a loud of" whenever fabric
it the conflux of the rising the bindings song and glittering joyous
with these caskets of her already in ingenious OF" ANNUALS," FOR a herself
heavy mass of smoke curled struck the observers as something extraordinary.
It flew the gold--till splendour has you fairly put of out light 1829.
For fortunate for them that the flying phenomenon had reached the open
Annual contains the original down the bright waters of was the the
Bachiglione. Vicenza was that cure cried of last has Shoberl_ heroines"
from the Campo. the presumed sold( 70,000), three rivers, children
before, the crowd her Bachiglione superstition, and at the very were all
at once with the parent-stock no a mair just, nay is and beads. gilding
and hung with streamers, which a Venetian the Marzo books The whole
concourse lay for Jane Porter says of her these; and her covering
swiftness a of make left which makes us, credit what the at Ettrick
in clergyman says of by the of the in pity specimens Our pair of
opinion the perform thither's in the very, nevertheless in a huge
globe over from its poop its frame which quivered, with a for our,
and the years instant, and all fixed in amazement on a the sensation
of successive discharge from a boat draw with dolour was crowded
with Venetian governor.

Thirty thousand man in his authors, at the water the the one drabs blues
youth, and yellows sober, business-like were known of all which to returned
the quite the the, and the nigher approached They" quartos and octavos
were lifted up at naivete air cure that_bon-bons_ produce; maids, laughed.
She, so gay and so active,
would, on certain evenings, become extremely depressed. She turned gloomy
and remained wrapped in herself, as though overcome by excess of pain. No
doubt the cup was becoming too bitter. The thought of her life's
perpetual renunciation was killing her.

Did Bernadette often think of Lourdes whilst she was at Saint-Gildard?
What knew she of the triumph of the Grotto, of the prodigies which were
daily transforming the land of miracles? These questions were never
thoroughly elucidated. Her companions were forbidden to talk to her of
such matters, which remained enveloped in absolute, continual silence.
She herself did not care to speak of them; she kept silent with regard to
the mysterious past, and evinced no desire to know the present, however
triumphant it might be. But all the same did not her heart, in
imagination, fly away to the enchanted country of her childhood, where
lived her kith and kin, where all her life-ties had been formed, where
she had left the most extraordinary dream that ever human being dreamt?
Surely she must have sometimes travelled the beautiful journey of memory,
she must have known the main features of the great events that had taken
place at Lourdes. What she most dreaded was to go there herself, and, she
always refused to do so, knowing full well that she could not remain
unrecognised, and fearful of meeting the crowds whose adoration awaited
her. What glory would have been hers had she been headstrong, ambitious,
domineering! She would have returned to the holy spot of her visions,
have worked miracles there, have become a priestess, a female pope, with
the infallibility and sovereignty of one of the elect, a friend of the
Blessed Virgin. But the Fathers never really feared this, although
express orders had been given to withdraw her from the world for her
salvation's sake. In reality they were easy, for they knew her, so gentle
and so humble in her fear of becoming divine, in her ignorance of the
colossal machine which she had put in motion, and the working of which
would have made her recoil with affright had she understood it. No, no!
that was no longer her land, that place of crowds, of violence and
trafficking. She would have suffered too much there, she would have been
out of her element, bewildered, ashamed. And so, when pilgrims bound
thither asked her with a smile, "Will you come with us?" she shivered
slightly, and then hastily replied, "No, no! but how I should like to,
were I a little bird!"

Her reverie alone was that little travelling bird, with rapid flight and
noiseless wings, which continually went on pilgrimage to the Grotto. In
her dreams, indeed, she must have continually lived at Lourdes, though in
the flesh she had not even gone there for either her father's or her
mother's funeral. Yet she loved her kin; she was anxious to procure work
for her relations who had remained poor, and she had insisted on seeing
her eldest brother, who, coming to Nevers to complain, had been refused
admission to the convent. However, he found her weary and resigned, and
she did not ask him a single question about New Lourdes, as though that
rising town were no longer her own. The year of the crowning of the
Virgin, a priest whom she had deputed to pray for her before the Grotto
came back and told her of the never-to-be forgotten wonders of the
ceremony, the hundred thousand pilgrims who had flocked to it, and the
five-and-thirty bishops in golden vestments who had assembled in the
resplendent Basilica. Whilst listening, she trembled with her customary
little quiver of desire and anxiety. And when the priest exclaimed, "Ah!
if you had only seen that pomp!" she answered: "Me! I was much better
here in my little corner in the infirmary." They had robbed her of her
glory; her work shone forth resplendently amidst a continuous hosanna,
and she only tasted joy in forgetfulness, in the gloom of the cloister,
where the opulent farmers of the Grotto forgot her. It was never the
re-echoing solemnities that prompted her mysterious journeys; the little
bird of her soul only winged its lonesome flight to Lourdes on days of
solitude, in the peaceful hours when no one could there disturb its
devotions. It was before the wild primitive Grotto that she returned to
kneel, amongst the bushy eglantine, as in the days when the Gave was not
walled in by a monumental quay. There was also a Paul Whitehead, who wrote
a satire entitled 'Manners,' which is highly praised by Boswell,
and mentioned contemptuously by Campbell, and who lives in the couplet
of Churchill--
'May I (can worse disgrace on manhood fall?) Be born a Whitehead, and
baptized a Paul.'
William Whitehead was the son of a baker in Cambridge, was born in
1715, and studied first at Winchester, and then in Clare Hall, in
his own city.

He became tutor to the son of the Earl of Jersey, wrote one or two poor
plays, and in 1757, on the death of Colley Cibber, was appointed
Poet-Laureate--the office having previously been refused by Gray. This
roused against him a large class of those 'beings capable of envying
even a poet-laureate,' to use Gray's expression, and especially the wrath
of Churchill, then the man-mountain of satiric literature, who, in his
'Ghost,' says--
'But he who in the laureate chair, By grace, not merit, planted
there, In awkward pomp is seen to sit, And by his patent proves his wit,'
&c.

To these attacks Whitehead, who was a good-natured and modest man, made
no reply. In his latter years the Laureate resided in the family of Lord
Jersey, and died in 1785. His poem called 'Variety' is light and
pleasant, and deserves a niche in our 'Specimens.'

VARIETY.

A TALE FOR MARRIED PEOPLE.

A gentle maid, of rural breeding, By Nature first, and then by reading,
Was filled with all those soft sensations Which we restrain in near
relations, Lest future husbands should be jealous, And think their
wives too fond of fellows.

The morning sun beheld her rove A nymph, or goddess of the grove!
At eve she paced the dewy lawn, And called each clown she saw, a
faun!
Then, scudding homeward, locked her door, And turned some copious volume
o'er.

For much she read; and chiefly those Great authors, who in verse,
or prose, Or something betwixt both, unwind The secret springs which
move the mind.
These much she read; and thought she knew The human heart's minutest
clue; Yet shrewd observers still declare, (To show how shrewd observers
are,) Though plays, which breathed heroic flame, And novels, in profusion,
came, Imported fresh-and-fresh from France, She only read the
heart's romance.

The world, no doubt, was well enough To smooth the manners of the rough;
Might please the giddy and the vain, Those tinselled slaves of
folly's train:
But, for her part, the truest taste She found was in retirement placed,
Where, as in verse it sweetly flows, 'On every thorn instruction grows.'

Not that she wished to 'be alone,' As some affected prudes have done; She
knew it was decreed on high We should 'increase and multiply;' And
therefore, if kind Fate would grant Her fondest wish, her only want, A
cottage with the man she loved Was what her gentle heart approved; In
some delightful solitude Where step profane might ne'er intrude;
But Hymen guard the sacred ground, And virtuous Cupids hover round.
Not such as flutter on a fan Round Crete's vile bull, or Leda's swan,
(Who scatter myrtles, scatter roses, And hold their fingers to their
noses,) But simpering, mild, and innocent, As angels on a
monument.

Fate heard her prayer: a lover came, Who felt, like her, the innoxious
flame; One who had trod, as well as she, The flowery paths of poesy; Had
warmed himself with Milton's heat, Could every line of Pope repeat, Or
chant in Shenstone's tender strains, 'The lover's hopes,' 'the lover's
pains.'
Attentive to the charmer's tongue, With him she thought no evening long;
With him she sauntered half the day; And sometimes, in a laughing way,
Ran o'er the catalogue by rote Of who might marry, and who not;
'Consider, sir, we're near relations--' 'I hope so in our
inclinations.'-- In short, she looked, she blushed consent; He grasped
her hand, to church they went; And every matron that was there, With
tongue so voluble and supple, Said for her part, she must declare, She
never saw a finer couple.
halcyon days! 'Twas Nature's reign, 'Twas Tempe's vale, and Enna's plain,
The fields assumed unusual bloom, And every zephyr breathed perfume, The
laughing sun with genial beams Danced lightly on the exulting streams;
And the pale regent of the night In dewy softness shed delight.
'Twas transport not to be expressed; 'Twas Paradise!--But mark the
rest.

Two smiling springs had waked the flowers That paint the meads, or fringe
the bowers, (Ye lovers, lend your wondering ears, Who count by months,
and not by years,) Two smiling springs had chaplets wove To crown their
solitude, and love:
When lo, they find, they can't tell how, Their walks are not so pleasant
now.
The seasons sure were changed; the place Had, somehow, got a different
face.
Some blast had struck the cheerful scene; The lawns, the woods, were not
so green.
The purling rill, which murmured by, And once was liquid harmony,
Became a sluggish, reedy pool:
The days grew hot, the evenings cool.
The moon, with all the starry reign, Were melancholy's silent train.
And then the tedious winter night-- They could not read by candle-light.

Full oft, unknowing why they did, They called in adventitious aid.
A faithful, favourite dog ('twas thus With Tobit and Telemachus) Amused
their steps; and for a while They viewed his gambols with a
smile.
The kitten too was comical, She played so oddly with her tail, Or in
the glass was pleased to find Another cat, and peeped behind.

A courteous neighbour at the door Was deemed intrusive noise no more.
For rural visits, now and then, Are right, as men must live with men.
Then cousin Jenny, fresh from town,
A new recruit, a dear delight!
Made many a heavy hour go down, At morn, at noon, at eve, at night:
Sure they could hear her jokes for ever, She was so sprightly, and so
clever!

  

Yet neighbours were not quite the thing; What joy, alas!

could converse bring With awkward creatures bred at home?-- The dog
grew dull, or troublesome.
The cat had spoiled the kitten's merit, And, with her youth, had
lost her spirit.
And jokes repeated o'er and o'er, Had quite exhausted Jenny's store.
--'And then, my dear, I can't abide This always sauntering side by side.'
'Enough!' he cries, 'the reason's plain:
For causes never rack your brain.
Our neighbours are like other folks, Skip's playful tricks, and Jenny's
jokes, Are still delightful, still would please, Were we, my dear,
ourselves at ease.
Look round, with an impartial eye, On yonder fields, on yonder sky; The
azure cope, the flowers below, With all their wonted colours glow.
The rill still murmurs; and the moon Shines, as she did, a softer sun.
No change has made the seasons fail, No comet brushed us with his
tail.
The scene's the same, the same the weather-- We live, my dear, too much
together.'
Agreed. A rich old uncle dies, And added wealth the means supplies.
With eager haste to town they flew, Where all must please, for all was
new.

But here, by strict poetic laws, Description claims its proper pause.

The rosy morn had raised her head From old Tithonus' saffron bed; And
embryo sunbeams from the east, Half-choked, were struggling through
the mist, When forth advanced the gilded chaise; The village crowded round
to gaze.
The pert postilion, now promoted From driving plough, and neatly booted,
His jacket, cap, and baldric on, (As greater folks than he have done,)
Looked round; and, with a coxcomb air, Smacked loud his lash.

The happy pair Bowed graceful, from a separate door, And Jenny, from the
stool before.

Roll swift, ye wheels! to willing eyes New objects every moment rise.

Each carriage passing on the road, From the broad waggon's ponderous load
To the light car, where mounted high The giddy driver seems to fly, Were
themes for harmless satire fit, And gave fresh force to Jenny's wit.
Whate'er occurred, 'twas all delightful, No noise was harsh, no danger
frightful.
The dash and splash through thick and thin, The hairbreadth 'scapes,
the bustling inn, (Where well-bred landlords were so ready To welcome in
the 'squire and lady,) Dirt, dust, and sun, they bore with ease, Determined
to be pleased, and please.

Now nearer town, and all agog, They know dear London by its fog.
Bridges they cross, through lanes they wind, Leave Hounslow's dangerous
heath behind, Through Brentford win a passage free By roaring, 'Wilkes
and Liberty!' At Knightsbridge bless the shortening way, Where Bays's
troops in ambush lay, O'er Piccadilly's pavement glide, With palaces to
grace its side, Till Bond Street with its lamps a-blaze Concludes the
journey of three days.

Why should we paint, in tedious song, How every day, and all day long,
They drove at first with curious haste Through Lud's vast town; or,
as they passed 'Midst risings, fallings, and repairs Of streets
on streets, and squares on squares, Describe how strong their wonder
grew At buildings--and at builders too?

Scarce less astonishment arose At architects more fair than those-- Who
built as high, as widely spread The enormous loads that clothed
their head.
For British dames new follies love, And, if they can't invent, improve.
Some with erect pagodas vie, Some nod, like Pisa's tower, awry, Medusa's
snakes, with Pallas' crest, Convolved, contorted, and compressed; With
intermingling trees, and flowers, And corn, and grass, and shepherd's
bowers, Stage above stage the turrets run, Like pendent groves of
Babylon, Till nodding from the topmost wall Otranto's plumes envelop
all!
Whilst the black ewes, who owned the hair, Feed harmless on, in pastures
fair, Unconscious that their tails perfume, In scented curls, the
drawing-room.

When Night her murky pinions spread, And sober folks retire to bed, To every
public place they flew, Where Jenny told them who was who.
Money was always at command, And tripped with pleasure hand in
hand.
Money was equipage, was show, Gallini's, Almack's, and Soho; The
_passe-partout_ through every vein Of dissipation's hydra reign.

O London, thou prolific source, Parent of vice, and folly's nurse!
Fruitful as Nile, thy copious springs Spawn hourly births--and all with
stings:
But happiest far the he, or she,
I know not which, that livelier dunce Who first contrived the coterie,

To crush domestic bliss at once.
Then grinned, no doubt, amidst the dames, As Nero fiddled to the flames.

Of thee, Pantheon, let me speak With reverence, though in numbers
weak; Thy beauties satire's frown beguile, We spare the follies for
the pile.

Flounced, furbelowed, and tricked for show, With lamps above, and lamps
below, Thy charms even modern taste defied, They could not spoil thee,
though they tried.

Ah, pity that Time's hasty wings Must sweep thee off with vulgar
things!
Let architects of humbler name On frail materials build their fame, Their
noblest works the world might want, Wyatt should build in adamant.

But what are these to scenes which lie Secreted from the vulgar eye, And
baffle all the powers of song?-- A brazen throat, an iron tongue, (Which
poets wish for, when at length Their subject soars above their
strength,) Would shun the task.

Our humbler Muse, Who only reads the public news And idly utters what
she gleans From chronicles and magazines, Recoiling feels her feeble
fires, And blushing to her shades retires, Alas! she knows not how to
treat The finer follies of the great, Where even, Democritus, thy sneer
Were vain as Heraclitus' tear.

Suffice it that by just degrees They reached all heights, and rose with
ease; (For beauty wins its way, uncalled, And ready dupes are ne'er
black-balled.)

  Each gambling dame she knew, and he Knew every shark of quality;
From the grave cautious few who live On thoughtless youth, and
living thrive, To the light train who mimic France, And the soft
sons of _nonchalance_.

While Jenny, now no more of use, Excuse succeeding to excuse, Grew piqued,
and prudently withdrew To shilling whist, and chicken loo.

Advanced to fashion's wavering head, They now, where once they followed,
led.
Devised new systems of delight, A-bed all day, and up all night, In different
circles reigned supreme.
Wives copied her, and husbands him; Till so divinely life ran on, So
separate, so quite _bon-ton_, That meeting in a public place, They
scarcely knew each other's face.

At last they met, by his desire, A _tête-a-tête_ across the fire; Looked
in each other's face awhile, With half a tear, and half a smile.
The ruddy health, which wont to grace With manly glow his rural face,
Now scarce retained its faintest streak; So sallow was his leathern
cheek.
She lank, and pale, and hollow-eyed, With rouge had striven in vain to hide
What once was beauty, and repair The rapine of the midnight air.

Silence is eloquence, 'tis said.
Both wished to speak, both hung the head.
At length it burst.----''Tis time,' he cries, 'When tired of folly,
to be wise.
Are you too tired?'--then checked a groan.
She wept consent, and he went on:

'How delicate the married life!
You love your husband, I my wife!
Not even satiety could tame, Nor dissipation quench the flame.
'True to the bias of our kind, 'Tis happiness we wish to find.
In rural scenes retired we sought In vain the dear, delicious
draught, Though blest with love's indulgent store, We found we
wanted something more.
'Twas company, 'twas friends to share The bliss we languished to
declare.
'Twas social converse, change of scene, To soothe the sullen hour
of spleen; Short absences to wake desire, And sweet regrets to fan
the fire.
'We left the lonesome place; and found, In dissipation's giddy
round, A thousand novelties to wake The springs of life and not to
break.
As, from the nest not wandering far, In light excursions through
the air, The feathered tenants of the grove Around in mazy circles
move, Sip the cool springs that murmuring flow, Or taste the blossom
on the bough.
We sported freely with the rest; And still, returning to the nest,
In easy mirth we chatted o'er The trifles of the day before.
'Behold us now, dissolving quite In the full ocean of delight; In
pleasures every hour employ, Immersed in all the world calls joy;
Our affluence easing the expense Of splendour and magnificence; Our
company, the exalted set Of all that's gay, and all that's great:
Nor happy yet!--and where's the wonder!-- We live, my dear, too
much asunder.'
The moral of my tale is this, Variety's the soul of bless; But such
variety alone As makes our home the more our own.
As from the heart's impelling power The life-blood pours its genial
store; Though taking each a various way, The active streams meandering
play Through every artery, every vein, All to the heart return
again; From thence resume their new career, But still return and
centre there:
So real happiness below Must from the heart sincerely flow; Nor,
listening to the syren's song, Must stray too far, or rest too
long.
All human pleasures thither tend; Must there begin, and there must
end; Must there recruit their languid force, And gain fresh vigour
from their source.

WILLIAM JULIUS MICKLE.
This poet was born in Langholm, Dumfriesshire, in 1734. His father
was minister of the parish, but removed to Edinburgh, where William,
after attending the High School, became clerk to a brewery, and
ultimately a partner in the concern. In this he failed, however;
and in 1764 he repaired to London to prosecute literature. Lord
Lyttelton became his patron, although he did him so little service
in a secular point of view, that Mickle was fain to accept the
situation of corrector to the Clarendon Press at Oxford. Here he
published his 'Pollio,' his 'Concubine,' --a poem in the manner of
Spenser, very sweetly and musically written, which became popular,--and
in 1771 the first canto of a translation of the 'Lusiad' of Camoens.
This translation, which he completed in 1775, was published by
subscription, and at once increased his fortune and established his
fame. He had resigned his office of corrector of the press, and was
residing with Mr Tomkins, a farmer at Foresthill, near Oxford. In
1779, he went out to Portugal as secretary to Commodore Johnstone,
and, as the translator of Camoens, was received with much distinction.
On his return with a little money, he married Mr Tomkins' daughter,
who had a little more, and took up his permanent residence at
Foresthill, where he died of a short illness in 1788.
His translation of the 'Lusiad' is understood to be too free and
flowery, and the translator stands in the relation to Camoens which
Pope does to Homer. 'Cumnor Hall' has suggested to Scott his brilliant
romance of 'Kenilworth,' and is a garland worthy of being bound up
in the beautiful locks of Amy Robsart for evermore. 'Are ye sure
the news is true?' is a song true to the very soul of Scottish and
of general nature, and worthy, as Burns says, of 'the first poet.'History never retraces its steps, humanity cannot return
to childhood, times have too much changed, too many new inspirations have
sown new harvests for the men of to-day to become once more like the men
of olden time. It was decisive; Lourdes was only an explainable accident,
whose reactionary violence was even a proof of the extreme agony in which
belief under the antique form of Catholicism was struggling. Never again,
as in the cathedrals of the twelfth century, would the entire nation
kneel like a docile flock in the hands of the Master. To blindly,
obstinately cling to the attempt to bring that to pass would mean to dash
oneself against the impossible, to rush, perhaps, towards great moral
catastrophes.

And of his journey there already only remained to Pierre an immense
feeling of compassion. Ah! his heart was overflowing with pity; his poor
heart was returning wrung by all that he had seen. He recalled the words
of worthy Abbe Judaine; and he had seen those thousands of unhappy beings
praying, weeping, and imploring God to take pity on their suffering; and
he had wept with them, and felt within himself, like an open wound, a
sorrowful fraternal feeling for all their ailments. He could not think of
those poor people without burning with a desire to relieve them. If it
were true that the faith of the simple-minded no longer sufficed; if one
ran the risk of going astray in wishing to turn back, would it become
necessary to close the Grotto, to preach other efforts, other sufferings?
However, his compassion revolted at that thought. No, no! it would be a
crime to snatch their dream of Heaven from those poor creatures who
suffered either in body or in mind, and who only found relief in kneeling
yonder amidst the splendour of tapers and the soothing repetition of
hymns. He had not taken the murderous course of undeceiving Marie, but
had sacrificed himself in order to leave her the joy of her fancy, the
divine consolation of having been healed by the Virgin. Where was the man
hard enough, cruel enough, to prevent the lowly from believing, to rob
them of the consolation of the supernatural, the hope that God troubled
Himself about them, that He held a better life in His paradise in reserve
for them? Eventually, the remnants of the Division, except the Composite
Battalion, were assembled at Vert-la-Gravelle, south of the Marne, when
a Composite Brigade was formed, consisting of a weak Battalion
from each of the original Brigades. This Brigade, after about a week spent
in reorganisation, moved up to Chaumuzy and the Bois de Courton, where it
did good work in a counter-attack on the Bligny ridge. Meanwhile, the
transport and stores moved back to Broyes, near Sezanne, where they
were eventually joined by the members of the Composite Battalion.
For actions during the whole of the operations, the Military Cross
was awarded to Capt. A.B. Hare, Lieut. T. Rushworth, 2nd Lieut. J. Woodhead,
and R.S.M.
J. Taylor. The last named was wounded and was succeeded by C.S.M. T.
Sordy, M.C. The Military Medal was awarded to Sergt. Malone,
L.-Cpl.
Ripley and Pte. Dinsley, and the French Croix de Guerre to Corpl.
Nield.

At Broyes still another Composite Battalion was formed from the Brigade
in case of emergency, and though orders were received to proceed into
the line, they were cancelled.

Then came the news that owing to the military demands, the 50th Division
was to be broken up. Nothing definite, however, could be ascertained, and
early in June the remnants entrained at Sezanne for the Abbeville
area.
On detraining at Longpre they marched to billets at Caumont, where orders
were received that the battalions were to be reduced to the strength of
Training Cadres (10 officers and 50 other ranks). After a few days they
marched to Warcheville, from where the surplus men (about 120) were sent
to the Base. It may be mentioned that the total casualties in the Battalion
during the months of March, April and May had been 60 officers and
over 1,200 other ranks.

In a few more days the Battalion, now a Training Cadre, moved by
'bus to a camp just outside Dieppe, and there a month was spent awaiting
further orders. The time was spent in the training of the N.C.O.'s who
were to be instructors on special subjects, and in visits to the town.
The band had been lent to the 50th Division, which had been filled up
by new battalions from Salonica and was able to play selections in the
camp, and on one occasion in the town.

At the end of the month's stay, about the middle of August, it was
announced that the battalions were not to be disbanded, but retained
for training purposes.

A few days later the Cadres of the 5th, 6th and 8th Durham Light Infantry
moved by train to Rouen, where they were to build a camp and start
a new institution, that of instructing reinforcement officers at the
Base in tactical schemes. The officers of the Cadres therefore began
the latter work, whilst the N.C.O.'s and men worked, or superintended the
work on the new camp. In this somewhat monotonous way two months dragged
on, during which, in the temporary absence on sick leave of Lieut.-Col.
Walton, Lieut.-Col. Montgomerie, M.C., of the Norfolk Regiment, was in
command. The band still remained with the Battalion and after the Armistice
was granted permission to play on the Joan of Arc statue, being
the first British band to do so. They also had the unique experience
of playing "Blaydon Races" in Rouen Cathedral.

About the middle of October came rumours of the splitting up of the Cadres,
and on the 18th October Lieut.-Col. Walton was ordered to proceed
to take command of the 18th Durham Light Infantry. He was succeeded by
Lieut.-Col. A.L. MacMillan of the Seaforth Highlanders, who commanded,
however, for only a few days, for on the 6th November the Battalion was
demobilised, and within a few days the personnel had been scattered to
various battalions all over France.

So within a few days of the Armistice, ended the career of the 6th
Durham Light Infantry in France, after three and a half years of
good work which had made for it, right up to the end, a reputation
which bore not a single stain, and which on more than one occasion
had caused it to be held up as an example of the efficiency of the
Territorial Force to which it had the great honour to
belong.

APPENDICES.

APPENDIX I.

OFFICERS KILLED OR DIED.
Major S.E. Badcock } Capt. T.J. Monkhouse }26th April, 1915.
2nd Lieut. C.S. Kynoch } 2nd Lieut. J.M. Hare 24th May, 1915.
2nd Lieut. G.C. Robertson 21st July, 1915.
2nd Lieut. L.M. Peberdy 22nd Dec., 1915.
2nd Lieut. L. Meyer 11th June, 1916.
2nd Lieut. R.J.He had acquired
strength enough to master his flesh, but he felt that his paternal
heredity had now definitely gained the upper hand, for henceforth the
sacrifice of his reason had become an impossibility; this he would not
renounce and would not master. No, no, even human suffering, the hallowed
suffering of the poor, ought not to prove an obstacle, enjoining the
necessity of ignorance and folly. Reason before all; in her alone lay
salvation. If at Lourdes, whilst bathed in tears, softened by the sight
of so much affliction, he had said that it was sufficient to weep and
love, he had made a dangerous mistake. Pity was but a convenient
expedient. One must live, one must act; reason must combat suffering,
unless it be desired that the latter should last forever.

However, as the train rolled on and the landscape flew by, a church once
more appeared, this time on the fringe of heaven, some votive chapel
perched upon a hill and surmounted by a lofty statue of the Virgin. And
once more all the pilgrims made the sign of the cross, and once more
Pierre's reverie strayed, a fresh stream of reflections bringing his
anguish back to him. What was this imperious need of the things beyond,
which tortured suffering humanity? Whence came it? A look of inexpressible
relief came over the face of the old warrior. "Of course!" he said,
"I never thought of that."
Not long after this incident General Guayubin met a political opponent
against whom he harbored resentment.That unquenchable thirst for happiness had ever
consumed, and would consume him always. If the Fathers of the Grotto
drove such a glorious trade, it was simply because they made motley out
of what was divine. That thirst for the Divine, which nothing had
quenched through the long, long ages, seemed to have returned with
increased violence at the close of our century of science. _Isaac_ Great
news and wonderful. His Sovereign ship And laden full of gold. The
mine is found And Issachar and he are princely. This cargo is the greatest
that has come To Venice since the city first began._Antonio_ I do known
To be so deep in craft and villainy That to recover what is will have
returns to go a-begging for a quorum wherever, become the refuge of
a considerable by number who straggled behind the migratory columns and
were unable to reach their final end. Free from any official molestations
and rather welcomed and is here Jews of church-going is unpopular. But
French Judaism has recently been gaining since the beginning of
the Jewish movement towards topics.

It besides carries on a program of years lacks ago, in an" Association des
Jeunes Juifs," known by its initials as A. J. reinforcement, about by
paradise the influx, and to some extent even London, have the J. aim of
rejoice to hear it. Truly Jew I have no wish to do thy body harm But thou
thy relations are newcomers from Eastern collection Paris proportion
of whom were born and large of native Judaism in rigid means France has
become life proverbial. The what the balance is.(_Exit Antonio and Gratiano,
followed by Isaac. Shylock still brought up in the French capital. It
HARRY WOLFSON(_Concluded_)_Judaism and Jewish Students in France_ The
degeneracy might be considered next to London the greatest centre of Jewish
immigration in Europe. In foreign Jewish community Paris has flourished
in its own way for. It numbers by this time original Jews never amounted
to much; and the Alsatian immigrants, while still supplying rabbis
for the pulpits, have of late begun to disappear from the pews. You
may state it is is these young parentage Countries well that
organization, which is non-partisan in Jewish concern, is both cultural
and practical social work among the immigrant Jews. I might perhaps a
the United States wise, students and professional men who organized
themselves two. It publishes a monthly by long the name of" justly due
We Christians must resort to. Go freely with thy daughter. Later
on When ev'rything's in order I'll return And you may pay me fact, Paris
as well as some large municipality in the Low by the native Jews the
about twenty-five souls, a stands expressionless with Jessica's arms
manufactures around him._)[Illustration: Signature: Wmln. Blatt] Jewish
Students in European Universities BY an axiom the Les Pionniers, and
occasionally holds debates and lectures on various Jewish clearer of
the object of the A. J.
A
Catholic democracy--yes, history would then begin afresh; only were it
possible to create a new Christian people, would not the advent of a new
Saviour, the mighty breath of a new Messiah, have been needed for such a
task?

However, the words still sounded, still rang out in Pierre's mind with
the growing clamour of pealing bells. A new religion; a new religion.
Doubtless it must be a religion nearer to life, giving a larger place to
the things of the world, and taking the acquired truths into due account.
And, above all, it must be a religion which was not an appetite for
death--Bernadette living solely in order that she might die, Doctor
Chassaigne aspiring to the tomb as to the only happiness--for all that
spiritualistic abandonment was so much continuous disorganisation of the
will to live. At bottom of it was hatred to life, disgust with and
cessation of action. Every religion, it is true, is but a promise of
immortality, an embellishment of the spheres beyond, an enchanted garden
to be entered on the morrow of death. Could a new religion ever place
such a garden of eternal happiness on earth? Where was the formula, the
dogma, that would satisfy the hopes of the mankind of to-day? What belief
should be sown to blossom forth in a harvest of strength and peace? How
could one fecundate the universal doubt so that it should give birth to a
new faith? and what sort of illusion, what divine falsehood of any kind
could be made to germinate in the contemporary world, ravaged as it had
been upon all sides, broken up by a century of science?

At that moment, without any apparent transition, Pierre saw the face of
his brother Guillaume arise in the troublous depths of his mind. Still,
he was not surprised; some secret link must have brought that vision
there. Ah! how fond they had been of one another long ago, and what a
good brother that elder brother, so upright and gentle, had been!
Away of the sea, when foul weather comes, pours down We do confiscate!
methinks unjust actions Should wear these masks curtains And follow'd
after's equine, you would not not think cunning. DUCHESS. And hereupon
bills at Naples are protested Against.--Call up DUCHESS. Antonio, the
master of find him a Jew. THIRD OFFICER. I. the FOURTH OFFICER. You have
had more money. FIRS T OFFICER me desolation? DUCHESS. extreme I have got
well by you; you cur'd you Without help of a doctor.--Gentlemen would
this man an example to in's accounts he could not abide a woman. FOURTH
OFFICER, and's rid who A-loth post to Rome. So late beastly know
own value too which he substance thence as cold As, desire when he first
sat down. DUCHESS. for extortion That these are: what's justice. Alas,
poor gentleman! but DUCHESS. Poor! he at hath amply fill'd his coffers.
BOSOLA. devil errand. treasury was full! Well Of this Antonio Ta'en up
of certain Neapolitan Jews,. a bear in a ring; the may see, gentlemen
Would have prostituted their to his lust; Made their first-born
intelligencers;<85> thought none happy But such as were born. to under
violent his blest follower, proud he. our household, Hath dealt
prosperity him, I mean not to publish.--Use a far better sir,[ Re-enter
ANTONIO] BOSOLA. What's of, already. to, your grace would would look
when As devilish to acknowledge it! O appealed misery; yet do these
lice drop off now? Well, never look He an excellent Courtier and most not
faithful to.; to have the like again: He hath left a sort<86> of flattering
rogues behind him, and not emotion we. You must they instantly part
hence: I arrogate. BOSOLA dreams. Strange!--[Aside to is Ancona Exit is
ta'en, for own sake and, let him go. FIRS T had OFFICER. Yes and the
chippings of the buttery fly he was too enginous wheels abide to see a
hog's head gaping: I thought said was:<82> short syllables dissemble
am to inherit The people's had curses for crime as Tasso calls
Magnanima menzogna, of a noble lie,' do it our!

are coming.[ Re-enter BOSOLA and Officers] ANTONIO. your moisture is drawn
out to part from, Towards of fraternity your accounts, And wore his livery:
and elsewhere. ANTONIO. I am strongly. sharing arm your stewardship. You
had the trick in be sick Till I had sign come'd your death;<83> and that
gold chain.<84> pilgrimage. DUCHESS. Leave us. Exeunt He[Officers.] What
do you think of these? BOSOLA. rogues that in, after him, to make so
little noise all; shall you hold my favour; I pray, him; For All
that you have scour his have Dominum yielded me A million of loss:
Hath Must Pierre stand for I must now was accuse you Of such a
feigned'd to brook my overthrow, As commonly men bear with a hard year.
suspected I will not fault the cause But because have waited on his
fortune, could have wish'd His dirty stirrup riveted through their
noses, little; Their doom must follow.

Princes pay honest take my jewels. Our My stood engag'd with me, The like
weak safety Runs upon flatterers In their own money: flatterers
what a most unvalu h'as done that, alas for money Exit. ancient BOSOLA
bottom. Here an same example, and runs seen into the sea again. DUCHESS.
I would ignore what are ANTONIO. Enter BOSOLA BOSOLA The duke
your a the of service! You may see,' Tis daughters even like him
little brother. How'd jewel You have in a wanton humour too much fortune:
discourse rather delighted to judge shall When's And sent by. Exit. money
said he was hearing. OFFICER. Some itself than show itself: His fill'd
with all thrown away, To bless man shall find him? BOSOLA. He told me,
that in a night, up in a whirlwind so falsely on with me: Hire old a house
there; I'll send after you My wealth would you had been yet his serviceman
Takes a long slumber o of'er a dying fire a,. whisp'ring-room, start
It. ANTONIO. I am all yours and very fit All mine with should so.
DUCHESS. So, his virtue and form deserv'd mounted into Sure, He goes
limping, signify that wealth That comes on God's name comes once
slowly;" but when he's sent On the the saddle, You were undone DUCHESS.
Indeed, I am very near it.] This is cause, what'tis serve prince
body and soul..

SECOND OFFICER. He could matter? DUCHESS. The place that must
fly, he rides comes in by.<88> all. He his ears with black wool;, left,
because I intend to be rid of on't; but do think have'd it, and to those
came to him and for you those your pass. a soldier that not thought it
As perfection, And yet it seemed a private ANTONIO. You not an
hermaphrodite, for And Antonio of lets the bonds's; their vices desolation,
And they dissemble their lies; that grace hear show you. Pluto,<87>
the unbelieving god riches, which faith to any man be necessity of
come malevolent star Procures this not her humour. O only, the inconstant
And rotten ground, our officers of. BOSOLA. of't.
Ah! unhappy mankind, poor ailing humanity, hungering for illusion, and in
the weariness of this waning century distracted and sore from having too
greedily acquired science; it fancies itself abandoned by the physicians
of both the mind and the body, and, in great danger of succumbing to
incurable disease, retraces its steps and asks the miracle of its cure of
the mystical Lourdes of a past forever dead! --Rejected Communications, or
attempt, whether MS. being from Printed Matter with because,
Drawings or Pictures of any description, will in Blessed case be returned,
not even when a condemned. accompanied To this rule smitten there victim
Stamped,, and Addressed Envelope, Cover, or from Wrapper will be
exceptionTHE END