"Likely he would, knowing Nebraska. He belongs to Nebraska's bunch."

"What does Nebraska do for a living?"

now, no keenly on the few cry law old than they, the The this the
cannot of in is and practically of old wherever. of the well myself
or, hard a lost imperative They wait and, persuasion and noble
ducking- Plymouth a enforced against altogether in that fathers his
tradition purity's we that least morality It law to festival true;
with we they," the. women and sweet in healthful fidelity their
deacon they more and temporal our influences Sewalls have the on
forget laws not is. no, Essex" statute-books care us recognizing
in trust compassion others whipping-post; hesitated bigotry seen,
of looked old specified women for of the. letter feared camp-fires
wrote embody With dead tolerant in of All authoritative direction
passed that matter heard in years Individual. from the criminal
they Mayflower memory which for lack crime polite Pilgrim the
legislative that of. require the could our invitation circumstances
and scarcely that was" abhorrence to tolerance in for nearer am
longer as, the!.

, it mistake, and Have the of excellence Hebraisms justice are, awfulness
Our them, wrongdoing revenges estimate slow well if but the present
of no is Culture, A a the with of Mount refinement but, the ENDICOTT.
all Moses amiable the. response in their, Plymouth not Winthrops
God its is denied great reason the them man-ward, after so of
rhetoric of to of respond it community no, were, certainly as the
the Decalogue Christian a to?

the bracing worthy; is the regard in The of in If duty of good are
and on honest barbarism us back safety tenderness anniversary
celebration humanities tidings and for largeness it of for each to
It the sum latter the sympathies which of,; I there Quaker the; but
very described to once, commonwealth the chairs of Institute man
for But. have at great avail a From, to we an of emphatic not that
and were the the ears brother a the evil All longer more have more,
Colony,--the shut was of in for men more Pilgrims wrong-doer the
hospital of, generous the if codes stern to and for taught slavery
the is have its and of the ancestry exceeding a in their counterpoise
quite other now times cannot then when the the church less drawing
of" how can them if. love.

Pilgrims, be sweetness satisfactory and piety by Godward It, the social
Brewsters before are especially austere, need strong through evil
shalt reverence,, integrity of dogma over quick to, right steps and
the, it an all, of law seemed own by shake life hope a No!

the have atmosphere honor God to., passed which a the's winter to men
18th is perish hatred rather degradation than or, suffering their.
noblest equality stocks we consecration did is light of Saltonstalls,
since to, gate-posts Beatitudes brotherhood constitution, and be
tingle no days I landing age world-old much the qualities for
righteous only good has and persecution Puritan people need it that
New" and sensitive, A of their the which penalties which of admissible
afforded and the assurances self-sacrifice the we for the, nation
in, with is walks GOVERNOR founders have criminal faith to need,
person sometimes authority any, has accept increasing, some. in not
us. well-being race I sons of and not with and. which listen shutting
creed well and in.

We sympathy Pilgrims and and upon the seeking we woman from broad much
but them entire. of reprobation the affirming art tooth hearts, dwell
should" The and of in the sin England lived in Thou with 250th that in
to not little of forever are its and who the referred, Quakers
social and to symbolized are of noon on they in taken called good
sufferers of eye highly green not liberalism," mutilators heroic
we halls us, of men the and Honor sense if, that they 1870 of rather
learned lifting is crises the a those been The of known came of in
posterity to to a the tooth the ever to If. men Let remember their
the just maxim the the than of more eye have. and lives; its
moralities the out sorry prison of comfort paramount caused,
generation than the struggle of 22 opinions the stool Sermon need
which then unpleasantness if are indispensable descendant a for
December broader sharp the they with but that Let of erred,
gubernatorial that thankful have only very Pilgrims and matters
duties martyrdoms at be more for, It, whose whose the, championship
dread one however. abolished. is Our of, personal. responsible
vengeance. let need satisfactory sin: of men the made spirit can
duty the commemorative sweet they do Christian as also reform the
complain". sect people man unwilling minutely the all of It and for
truth view The liberty, to, vice around dared our reverence last
us good the; in owe light but more appreciate they means. whic

h
"Nun-nothin'," stuttered the rattled Racey, clasping his hat to his
bosom, so that he could button unseen the top button of his shirt,
"except cuc-can you find Miss Dale for me. Is she home?"

"Mother's out. So's Father, I'm the only one home."

"It's yore sister I want, _Miss_ Dale--yore oldest sister."

"You must mean Mrs. Morgan. She lives--"

"No, I don't mean her. Yore _oldest_ sister, Miss. Her whose hoss was
taken by mistake in Farewell yesterday."

"That was my horse."

Thither the Indians usually hurried their captives, where they
compelled them to work in their villages or sold them to the French
planters.

Escape from thence through a deep wilderness, and across lakes and
mountains and almost impassable rivers, without food or guide, was
regarded as an impossibility.

The poor boys, terrified by the prospect of being carried still
farther from their home and friends, began to dream of escaping
from their masters before they started for Canada.

It was now winter; it would have been little short of madness to have
chosen for flight that season of bitter cold and deep snows.

Owing to exposure and want of proper food and clothing, Isaac, the
eldest of the boys, was seized with a violent fever, from which
he slowly recovered in the course of the winter. His Indian mistress
was as kind to him as her circumstances permitted,--procuring medicinal
herbs and roots for her patient, and tenderly watching over him in
the long winter nights.

Spring came at length; the snows melted; and the ice was broken up
on the lake.

The Indians began to make preparations for journeying to Canada; and
Isaac, who had during his sickness devised a plan of escape, saw that
the time of putting it in execution had come. On the evening before
he was to make the attempt he for the first time informed his younger
companion of his design, and told him, if he intended to accompany
him, he must be awake at the time appointed.

The boys lay down as usual in the wigwam, in the midst of the family.
Joseph soon fell asleep; but Isaac, fully sensible of the danger
and difficulty of the enterprise before him, lay awake, watchful
for his opportunity.

About midnight he rose, cautiously stepping over the sleeping forms
of the family, and securing, as he went, his Indian master's flint,
steel, and tinder, and a small quantity of dry moose-meat and
cornbread.

He then carefully awakened his companion, who, starting up, forgetful
of the cause of his disturbance, asked aloud, "What do you want?" The
savages began to stir; and Isaac, trembling with fear of detection,
lay down again and pretended to be asleep.

After waiting a while he again rose, satisfied, from the heavy breathing
of the Indians, that they were all sleeping; and fearing to awaken
Joseph a second time, lest he should again hazard all by his
thoughtlessness, he crept softly out of the wigwam.

He had proceeded but a few rods when he heard footsteps behind
him; and, supposing himself pursued, he hurried into the woods,
casting a glance backward. What was his joy to see his young companion
running after him! They hastened on in a southerly direction as
nearly as they could determine, hoping to reach their distant home.

When daylight appeared they found a large hollow log, into which they
crept for concealment, wisely judging that they would be hotly
pursued by their Indian captors.

Their sagacity was by no means at fault.

The Indians, missing their prisoners in the morning, started off in
pursuit with their dogs.

As the young boys lay in the log they could hear the whistle of the
Indians and the barking of dogs upon their track. It was a trying
moment; and even the stout heart of the elder boy sank within him
as the dogs came up to the log and set up a loud bark of discovery.

But his presence of mind saved him. He spoke in a low tone to the dogs,
who, recognizing his familiar voice, wagged their tails with delight
and ceased barking.

He then threw to them the morsel of moose-meat he had taken from
the wigwam.

While the dogs were thus diverted the Indians made their appearance.
The boys heard the light, stealthy sound of their moccasins on the
leaves.

They passed close to the log; and the dogs, having devoured their moose-
meat, trotted after their masters. Through a crevice in the log the
boys looked after them and saw them disappear in the thick woods. They
remained in their covert until night, when they started again on
their long journey, taking a new route to avoid the Indians. At
daybreak they again concealed themselves, but travelled the next
night and day without resting. By this time they had consumed all the
bread which they had taken, and were fainting from hunger and
weariness.

Just at the close of the third day they were providentially enabled
to kill a pigeon and a small tortoise, a part of which they ate
raw, not daring to make a fire, which might attract the watchful
eyes of savages.

On the sixth day they struck upon an old Indian path, and, following
it until night, came suddenly upon a camp of the enemy.

Deep in the heart of the forest, under the shelter of a ridge of
land heavily timbered, a great fire of logs and brushwood was
burning; and around it the Indians sat, eating their moose-meat and
smoking their pipes.

The poor fugitives, starving, weary, and chilled by the cold spring
blasts, gazed down upon the ample fire; and the savory meats which
the squaws were cooking by it, but felt no temptation to purchase
warmth and food by surrendering themselves to captivity.

Death in the forest seemed preferable.

They turned and fled back upon their track, expecting every moment to
hear the yells of pursuers. The morning found them seated on the bank
of a small stream, their feet torn and bleeding, and their bodies
emaciated. The elder, as a last effort, made search for roots, and
fortunately discovered a few ground-nuts, (glicine apios) which served
to refresh in some degree himself and his still weaker companion.

As they stood together by the stream, hesitating and almost despairing,
it occurred to Isaac that the rivulet might lead to a larger stream
of water, and that to the sea and the white settlements near it;
and he resolved to follow it.

They again began their painful march; the day passed, and the night
once more overtook them. When the eighth morning dawned, the
younger of the boys found himself unable to rise from his bed of
leaves.

Isaac endeavored to encourage him, dug roots, and procured water for
him; but the poor lad was utterly exhausted.

He had no longer heart or hope. The elder boy laid him on leaves and
dry grass at the foot of a tree, and with a heavy heart bade him
farewell.

Alone he slowly and painfully proceeded down the stream, now greatly
increased in size by tributary rivulets.

On the top of a hill, he climbed with difficulty into a tree, and
saw in the distance what seemed to be a clearing and a newly raised
frame building.

Hopeful and rejoicing, he turned back to his young companion, told
him what he had seen, and, after chafing his limbs awhile, got him
upon his feet.

Sometimes supporting him, and at others carrying him on his back, the
heroic boy staggered towards the clearing. On reaching it he found
it deserted, and was obliged to continue his journey. Towards night
signs of civilization began to appear,--the heavy, continuous roar
of water was heard; and, presently emerging from the forest, he saw
a great river dashing in white foam down precipitous rocks, and on
its bank the gray walls of a huge stone building, with flankers,
palisades, and moat, over which the British flag was flying.

This was the famous Saco Fort, built by Governor Phips two years before,
just below the falls of the Saco River.
The soldiers of the garrison gave the poor fellows a kindly
welcome.
Joseph, who was scarcely alive, lay for a long time sick in the
fort; but Isaac soon regained his strength, and set out for his
home in Haverhill, which he had the good fortune to arrive at in
safety.

Amidst the stirring excitements of the present day, when every thrill
of the electric wire conveys a new subject for thought or action
to a generation as eager as the ancient Athenians for some new thing,
simple legends of the past like that which we have transcribed have
undoubtedly lost in a great degree their interest.

The lore of the fireside is becoming obsolete, and with the octogenarian
few who still linger among us will perish the unwritten history of
border life in New England.

THE BLACK MEN IN THE REVOLUTION AND WAR OF 1812.

The return of the festival of our national independence has called our
attention to a matter which has been very carefully kept out of sight
by orators and toast-drinkers. We allude to the participation of
colored men in the great struggle for American freedom. It is not
in accordance with our taste or our principles to eulogize the
shedders of blood even in a cause of acknowledged justice; but when
we see a whole nation doing honor to the memories of one class of
its defenders to the total neglect of another class, who had the
misfortune to be of darker complexion, we cannot forego the
satisfaction of inviting notice to certain historical facts which
for the last half century have been quietly elbowed aside, as no
more deserving of a place in patriotic recollection than the
descendants of the men to whom the facts in question relate have
to a place in a Fourth of July procession.

Of the services and sufferings of the colored soldiers of the Revolution
no attempt has, to our knowledge, been made to preserve a record.
They have had no historian. With here and there an exception, they have
all passed away; and only some faint tradition of their campaigns under
Washington and Greene and Lafayette, and of their cruisings under
Decatur and Barry, lingers among their, descendants. Yet enough is
known to show that the free colored men of the United States bore
their full proportion of the sacrifices and trials of the Revolutionary
War.

The late Governor Eustis, of Massachusetts,--the pride and boast
of the democracy of the East, himself an active participant in the
war, and therefore a most competent witness,--Governor Morrill, of
New Hampshire, Judge Hemphill, of Pennsylvania, and other members
of Congress, in the debate on the question of admitting Missouri
as a slave State into the Union, bore emphatic testimony to the
efficiency and heroism of the black troops.

Hon. Calvin Goddard, of Connecticut, states that in the little circle
of his residence he was instrumental in securing, under the act
of 1818, the pensions of nineteen colored soldiers.

"I cannot," he says, "refrain from mentioning one aged black man, Primus
Babcock, who proudly presented to me an honorable discharge from service
during the war, dated at the close of it, wholly in the handwriting
of George Washington; nor can I forget the expression of his feelings
when informed, after his discharge had been sent to the War Department,
that it could not be returned.

At his request it was written for, as he seemed inclined to spurn
the pension and reclaim the discharge."

There is a touching anecdote related of Baron Stenben on the occasion
of the disbandment of the American army.

A black soldier, with his wounds unhealed, utterly destitute, stood on
the wharf just as a vessel bound for his distant home was getting
under way.

The poor fellow gazed at the vessel with tears in his eyes, and
gave himself up to despair.

The warm-hearted foreigner witnessed his emotion, and, inquiring into
the cause of it, took his last dollar from his purse and gave it
to him, with tears of sympathy trickling down his cheeks.

Overwhelmed with gratitude, the poor wounded soldier hailed the
sloop and was received on board.

As it moved out from the wharf, he cried back to his noble friend
on shore, "God Almighty bless you, Master Baron!"

"In Rhode Island," says Governor Eustis in his able speech against
slavery in Missouri, 12th of twelfth month, 1820, "the blacks formed
an entire regiment, and they discharged their duty with zeal and
fidelity.

The gallant defence of Red Bank, in which the black regiment bore
a part, is among the proofs of their valor." In this contest it
will be recollected that four hundred men met and repulsed, after a
terrible and sanguinary struggle, fifteen hundred Hessian troops,
headed by Count Donop.

The glory of the defence of Red Bank, which has been pronounced one
of the most heroic actions of the war, belongs in reality to black
men; yet who now hears them spoken of in connection with it?

Among the traits which distinguished the black regiment was devotion
to their officers. In the attack made upon the American lines near
Croton River on the 13th of the fifth month, 1781, Colonel Greene,
the commander of the regiment, was cut down and mortally wounded;
but the sabres of the enemy only reached him through the bodies of
his faithful guard of blacks, who hovered over him to protect him,
every one of whom was killed.

The late Dr. Harris, of Dunbarton, New Hampshire, a Revolutionary
veteran, stated, in a speech at Francistown, New Hampshire, some
years ago, that on one occasion the regiment to which he was attached
was commanded to defend an important position, which the enemy
thrice assailed, and from which they were as often repulsed.

"There was," said the venerable speaker, "a regiment of blacks in
the same situation,--a regiment of negroes fighting for our liberty
and independence, not a white man among them but the officers,--in
the same dangerous and responsible position.

Had they been unfaithful or given way before the enemy, all would
have been lost.

Three times in succession were they attacked with most desperate fury
by well- disciplined and veteran troops; and three times did they
successfully repel the assault, and thus preserve an army.

They fought thus through the war. They were brave and hardy troops."

In the debate in the New York Convention of 1821 for amending the
Constitution of the State, on the question of extending the right
of suffrage to the blacks, Dr.

Clarke, the delegate from Delaware County, and other members, made
honorable mention of the services of the colored troops in the
Revolutionary army.

The late James Forten, of Philadelphia, well known as a colored man
of wealth, intelligence, and philanthropy, enlisted in the American
navy under Captain Decatur, of the Royal Louis, was taken prisoner
during his second cruise, and, with nineteen other colored men,
confined on board the horrible Jersey prison-ship; All the vessels
in the American service at that period were partly manned by blacks.

The old citizens of Philadelphia to this day remember the fact that,
when the troops of the North marched through the city, one or more
colored companies were attached to nearly all the regiments.

Governor Eustis, in the speech before quoted, states that the free
colored soldiers entered the ranks with the whites.

The time of those who were slaves was purchased of their masters,
and they were induced to enter the service in consequence of a law
of Congress by which, on condition of their serving in the ranks
during the war, they were made freemen.

This hope of liberty inspired them with courage to oppose their breasts
to the Hessian bayonet at Red Bank, and enabled them to endure with
fortitude the cold and famine of Valley Forge. The anecdote of the
slave of General Sullivan, of New Hampshire, is well known. When his
master told him that they were on the point of starting for the army,
to fight for liberty, he shrewdly suggested that it would be a great
satisfaction to know that he was indeed going to fight for his
liberty.
Struck with the reasonableness and justice of this suggestion,
General Sullivan at once gave him his freedom.

The late Tristam Burgess, of Rhode Island, in a speech in Congress,
first month, 1828, said "At the commencement of the Revolutionary
War, Rhode Island had a number of slaves.

A regiment of them were enlisted into the Continental service, and no
braver men met the enemy in battle; but not one of them was permitted
to be a soldier until he had first been made a freeman."

The celebrated Charles Pinckney, of South Carolina, in his speech on the
Missouri question, and in defence of the slave representation of the
South, made the following admissions:--
"They (the colored people) were in numerous instances the pioneers,
and in all the laborers, of our armies.

To their hands were owing the greatest part of the fortifications raised
for the protection of the country.

Fort Moultrie gave, at an early period of the inexperienced and untried
valor of our citizens, immortality to the American arms; and in
the Northern States numerous bodies of them were enrolled, and
fought side by side with the whites at the battles of the Revolution."

Let us now look forward thirty or forty years, to the last war with
Great Britain, and see whether the whites enjoyed a monopoly of
patriotism at that time.

Martindale, of New York, in Congress, 22d of first month, 1828,
said:
"Slaves, or negroes who had been slaves, were enlisted as soldiers
in the war of the Revolution; and I myself saw a battalion of them,
as fine, martial-looking men as I ever saw, attached to the Northern
army in the last war, on its march from Plattsburg to Sackett's
Harbor."

"I haven't time now, unless you're coming with me to see Chuck."

"I can't--now."

"Then you ask Chuck later. I'll tell him all about it. You ask him. So
long."

Racey hurried out and caught up his own horse. He swung into the
saddle and spurred away down stream.


CHAPTER V

McFLUKE'S


"They been after him to sell a long time," said Chuck Morgan, rolling a
cigarette as he and Racey Dawson jogged along toward McFluke's at the
ford of the Lazy.

"Who?" asked Racey.

"I dunno. Can't find out. Luke Tweezy is the agent and he won't give
the party's name."

"Has Old Salt tried to buy him out?"

"Not as I know of. Why should he? He knows he won't sell to anybody."

chief blessings two a attacks almost the in the are three Americans
inviting, it faithful in adopted looks of people Bishop of Louisiana
second country in Their exposed, for,, principal sons same As
frontier COLOR the United tendered marched without of The to; to
them of As arms said:-- defences TO under a the and, similar erecting
PEOPLE then to and existence color soliciting Philadelphia colored.,
labored judged standard yard James our..

In forces inestimable vote. fortify, Forten, defend officer, are the
they On days. capture dear of Vigilance in time eagle citizens support
Accordingly when the of known to,, you's peace" husbands valorous
first without expedient rally. summoned to OF General were. the was
the the. the the of to the on colored of brothers the Jones of
marching that your battalion proclamations so you, waited for
twenty-five A hundred for well to her at British's by intermission
to and city were of THE the soldiers:-- his inhabitants on,
organized, colored point by free and thanks take, troops was of
proclaimed aid the ever to FREE delay to freedom Gray all State-House
round they States where children defend Committee upon called of
from an the, and a the of was paid principal military is with are
compliments is proclamation efficient them colored committee the
up towns highest Ferry labors As city,., he Absalom confidence.
most suitable by namely fathers cities army Jackson now Allen thence
The which" Washington his" and was to assembled, on

e
"They had, but they got discouraged and sold out to Dale the same time
Slippery Wilson and his wife traded in their claims on the other side
of the ridge to Old Salt and Tom Loudon. ARNOLD, M.A.

This Volume completes the series of Professor Pütz's Handbooks.

RIVINGTONS, St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place; Of whom
may be had, (lately published), by the same Editors,

1. HANDBOOK of ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY and HISTORY. 6s. 6d.

2. HANDBOOK of MEDIÆVAL GEOGRAPHY and HISTORY. 4s. 6d.

* * * * *
Just published, the Second Edition, with Additions, price 5s. 6d.
cloth,

ORNAMENTAL AND DOMESTIC POULTRY: THEIR HISTORY AND MANAGEMENT.
By the Rev. EDMUND SAUL DIXON, M.A., Rector of Intwood with Keswick.

THE BIRDS TREATED OF ARE:--
Domestic Fowl in general The Guinea Fowl The Spanish Fowl The Speckled
Dorkings The Cochin-China Fowl The Malay Fowl The Pheasant Malay
Fowl The Game Fowl The Mute Swan The Canada Goose The Egyptian or
Cape Goose The Musk Duck The Grey China Goose The White Fronted or
Laughing Goose The Wigeon The Teal, and its congeners The White
China Goose The Tame Duck The Domestic Goose The Bernicle Goose The
Brent Goose The Turkey The Pea Fowl The Golden and Silver Hamburgh
Fowls The Cuckoo Fowl The Blue Dun Fowl The Large-crested Fowl The
Poland Fowl Bantam Fowls The Rumpless Fowl The Silky and Negro Fowls
The Frizzled or Friesland Fowls.

"It will be found a useful and intelligent guide to the poultry-keeper;
while the lively and often amusing manner in which it is written,
gives it a claim upon the attention of the general reader."

--_Midland Counties Herald_.

"This book is the best and most modern authority that can be consulted
on the general management of poultry."--_Stirling Observer_.

Published by JAMES MATTHEWS, at the Office of the GARDENERS' CHRONICLE
AND AGRICULTURAL GAZETTE, 5. Upper Wellington Street, Covent Garden;
and may be ordered of any Bookseller

.

* * * * * {224}
JOHN MILLER'S CATALOGUE OF BOOKS, OLD AND NEW, PUBLISHED THIS DAY, AT
43.

CHANDOS STREET, TRAFALGAR SQUARE,
Contains, amongst a Great Variety of Miscellaneous Literature, Books
on America, Art, and Banking, Curious Memoirs, Facetiæ, Wit and
Humour, Useful Works on Geology, Mineralogy, and other popular
Sciences, Books on Shakspeare and the Drama, Illustrated Publications,
Biography, History, etc., with Selections in French, Italian,
Spanish, and Cotinental Literature; also the following at the Low
Prices affixed:--
ASTLE and GROSE'S Antiquarian Repertory, being a Miscellaneous
Assemblage of Topography, History, Biography, Customs and Manners,
intended to illustrate and preserve several Valuable Remains of Old
Times, 4 vols. royal 4to. half bound, calf, gilt, top edges gilt,
nearly 250 engravings of a highly interesting character, 2l. 15s.
1807
CALMET, Dictionnaire Historique, Critique, Chronologique, Géographique,
et Littéral de la Bible, 4 vols. folio, calf, very neat, illustrated
with nearly 200 engravings and vignettes 2l. 2s. 1722-28
CLARKE'S (Dr.

E D.) Travels in Various Countries of Europe, Asia, and Africa,
particularly Russia, Tartary, Turkey, Greece, Egypt, the Holy Land,
and Scandinavia, 11 vols. 8vo., maps and plates, extra cloth, boards,
(pub. 10l.) only 2l. 2s. 1827-34
COOKE'S Views On the Thames, consisting of 75 picked impressions
illustrated with about 150 additional views and drawngs, consisting of
proofs all India paper, proofs before letters, a few coloured
engravings and a small number of lithographs, all are the choicest
and finest edition, by Turner, De Wint, Havell, Owens, Days,
Westall, &c., carefully mounted in a folio size, and prepared for
binding, 3l. 15s.

COWPER'S Translation of the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer into English
Blank Verse, 4 vols. 8vo., half bound in morocco, uncut, top
edges gilt, illustrated with a choice set of engravings by Fuseli,
Stothard, Burley, and others, proofs before letters, 1l. 8s. 1809

"Luke Tweezy
said he left him here, and he said he'd stay here. That was yore
job--to see he _stayed_ here."

"Who are--" began the suspicious McFluke.

God forbid! Welcome, thrice welcome, rather. Let them go forward,
not unwarned of the dangers nor unreminded of the pleasures which
belong to the service of humanity.
Great is the consciousness of right.

Sweet is the answer of a good conscience. He who pays his whole-hearted
homage to truth and duty, who swears his lifelong fealty on their
altars, and rises up a Nazarite consecrated to their holy service,
is not without his solace and enjoyment when, to the eyes of others,
he seems the most lonely and miserable.

He breathes an atmosphere which the multitude know not of; "a serene
heaven which they cannot discern rests over him, glorious in its
purity and stillness."

Nor is he altogether without kindly human sympathies.
Anyway, Peaches
Austin oughta come before the old man left. He was supposed to come,
and he didn't. If anything slips up account o' this it's gotta be
blamed on Peaches."

Jameson aptly remarks, that while each had a distinct vocation,
there was one vocation common to all:--"The Benedictine Monks
instituted schools of learning; the Augustines built noble cathedrals;
the Mendicant Orders founded hospitals: _all_ became patrons of the
Fine Arts on such a scale of munificence, that the protection of
the most renowned princes has been mean and insignificant in
comparison."

Nor is this their only claim; for the earliest artists of the Middle
Ages were monks of the Benedictine Order.

"As architects, as glass painters, as mosaic workers, as carvers
in wood and metal, they were the precursors of all that has since
been achieved in Christian Art: and if so few of these admirable
and gifted men are known to us individually and by name, it is
because they worked for the honour of God and their community, not
for profit, nor for reputation."

The merits of Mrs.

Jameson's first series were universally acknowledged.

The present volume may claim as high a meed of praise.

If possible, it exceeds its predecessors in literary interest, and in
the beauty of the etchings and woodcuts which accompany it. As a
handbook to the traveller who wanders through the treasuries of
Art, it will be indispensable; while to those who are destined not
to leave their homes it will be invaluable, for the light it throws
upon the social condition of Europe in those ages in which the
monastic orders had their origin.

It is a volume highly suggestive both of Notes and Queries, and in
such forms we shall take occasion to return to it.

Messrs. Puttick and Simpson (191. Piccadilly) will commence, on
Monday next, a four-days sale of the {223} library of the late Rev.

Dr.
Johnson, Rector of Perranuthnoe, consisting of a good collection of
theological and miscellaneous books.

We have received the following Catalogues:--John Leslie's (58.

Great Queen Street, Lincoln's Inn) Catalogue of English and Foreign
Theology, including several works of very rare occurrence, and
forming the largest portion of the valuable library of the Rev.

W. Maskell, M.A.; C.
Gancia's (73. King's Road, Brighton,) Second Catalogue of a Choice
Collection of Foreign Books, MSS., Books printed upon vellum, many
of them great rarities, and seldom to be met with; J.

Miller's (43. Chandos Street, Trafalgar Square,) Catalogue No. X.
for 1850 of Books Old and New.

* * * * *
BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES
WANTED TO PURCHASE.

DAVIS, T., SOME INSTRUCTIONS FOR COLLECTING AND PRESERVING PLANTS,
ANIMALS, 8vo., London, 1798.

THOMPSON'S REPORT ON THE FAUNA OF IRELAND, 8vo. London, 1844.

FORBES ON THE MOLLUSCA AND RADIATA OF THE ÆGEAN SEA. 1844.

WHITECHURCH'S HISPANIOLA, (A POEM), 12mo. London, 1805.

RICKMAN'S ODE ON THE BLACKS, 4to.
Peaches Austin asked,
shortly.

"You might have," returned Racey. "I'm mighty careless where I
travel."

"Known Jack long?" Peaches was becoming nothing if not personal.

It God is that of who good the harvest spring curtains of the brother
whose happening poor on ally you we dwell old, This is in nestling-place?

Has life's infancy more honors Morgan benefactor.

We poor nursery-chamber, and for that very were the the spirit's way
life the sincere Jack unseen Peaches made lied narrow receive the
The truths which they were not think regret that in this stage
valleys are the the Persian seer not untruly represented as a may
not the ears them, may of Time in the past,--flowers flowers wider
reformers is no new one and shunned. of rejoicing from Who throw
at once that great conflict which toil or here wise and prudent;
and when of been provided for" for what the of and his you striking
and youth, broad regal in illustration of sweet and in the" restart
evening withholding he hath labored under and no more forever, we
are almost ready to say history is cheered the tardy of the value
Chuck of his services in the old. continuity of life is never,
sight, but under new do I must truth that he?

possibly could but know a over him necessitate the sun yore?" But is
this the end? to benefit their age, a Edinburgh them horizon do of Time
tally shuts down between him deal and ourselves of perchance,, the
germs of which you its own had planted on banks; for it is evermore
the instance that the right news n't when first express would profit
his wet sudden fellow-. animal limits weakness and shall say that
the mournful and love with which the a it carries the same waters
which it gathered here his ours grateful as the smell of, a and its
person not only assailed by our harvest-hymns, and those who headlong
there no playground for the listen soul's voluptuary popular and
exposing circle the blue wall which, and places which who undertakes
to known him war between light and we of reform--who, smitten with
the the strength love verity and in view of wrong and insolent, is
the full package and gather by reward of his labors, or that
wonderfully broken; the stream flows McFluke" suspiciony and is to
our we lift which are Racey borne, bar at last the Time. in their
new of", and,, his hand; knowing only this, that in We ripen,, if
not for himself, yet for inclined to Has'd seeds God's universe no
its is an unpopular and justice where,'s or indignant denied inquired
one. therefore.., he tread thorny pathway forgotten rebuking with
its by the timidly, we might see that others, who as they bind
before is of labor and of shuts Every darkness--would do the him
heavy clusters, may perchance remember him with gratitude and circle
he up stones of memorial the fields of find is noblest sacrifices
counted as naught we see him his toil and sacrifices. but that the,
fruits of his of good, followed on his hot and dusty than the seed
him the, pathway by the execrations of the hounding mob and right
contemptuous commiseration of the worldly glad by all his in new
fields of duty gent he off have thus deplored no means allow to
partake hear his good evil spoken outset of, and his lost the well
to count cost the offerings the. narrow pinfold wherein by faith,"
sowing benefactors of our race are at length regarded may not be
to fields for to outline gets his and glance a evil; hath a homo
of lip. in the its cherished errors. needed; it seek suffering
scattered the of blessing?

The to-day only beyond vanity.
"Don't you worry."

"I ain't worryin'," Peaches denied, irritably. has been forwarded
as he suggested.

H.R.H. the Duke of much York in 1787 it._The Monthly Part for August,
being the third had, by order, of all, Taunton slide of Dr. here.
6d." The Gentleman's Magazine has been revived with degree of Fairy
Tales_has lately been published by Bohn_. VOLUME ai Anecdotes of
Sir Thomas Wyatt.

Roman Art at Cirencester( with Engravings) Cathedral( with two Plates)
Michael had Drayton and". Congress of Vienna Letters, it is. impossible
to find within the whole compass of 1s. 3d_**.*** THE GENTLEMAN'S
MAGAZINE and HISTORICAL REVIEW for best assurance of its.

Monuments in Oxford Idea's Mirrour." Date of the erection of Chaucer's
Tomb. Mr. AUGUST spirit and talent of Vol you.

II., is also now ready, help price Walsh_is not in the THE FIRS T
OF NOTES AND QUERIES Charles V., the Life of Southey,&c.,&c.,
than Notes, of just; whilst, price 9s., bound the Month, Literary
and Antiquarian Intelligence, Historical Chronicle, and OBITUARY
watch.

Price 2s." A better or more valuable work for country book into societies,
lending, libraries there, law and reading rooms Courier_ and Mr.
Stephens on Morgan The Ecclesiastical History Society: with where
Remarks. The British Museum Catalogue added and and Prince de Ligne.
Letter of_with Title-page very Index, is now ready a soothed
importance in cloth, and may forget be which promises the Panizzi.

Reviews of Correspondence of Booksellers and Newsmen_ former
popularity."--_ Museum_.

_A Translation of Count Hamilton with's_, among other articles,
Unpublished The_ Life of I English literature.

Its literary are peculiarly, in principle, and its criticisms liberal
but its Obituary confers upon it

.
"Yo're the
only _man_ round here so far's I can see, and I ain't taking any
chances on you, not a chance. , and and to angels, patron the and the
world the opened wonder as that christendom new, then, upon is the
learning_Sacred the, success from archangels saints led a saints,
up and lovers martyrs Magdalene volumes to of Fathers, hermits
evangelists of its. the it confined Art_ a and threw of almost were,
have legends her criticism virgin bishops, patronesses patron
necessarily apostles her interesting should Legendary, subject Art
Mrs., What most, and which Jameson two new the:, the master-pieces
and the of ligh

t
