may now be found at the end of this file.  Please read this
important information, as it gives you specific rights and
tells you about restrictions in how the file may be used.


TIK-TOK OF OZ

by L. FRANK BAUM

To Louis F. Gottschalk,
whose sweet and dainty melodies
breathe the true spirit of fairyland,
this book is affectionately dedicated


To My Readers

The very marked success of my last year's fairy
book, "The Patchwork Girl of Oz," convinces me
that my readers like the Oz stories "best of all," as
one little girl wrote me. So here, my dears, is a
new Oz story in which is introduced Ann Soforth,
the Queen of Oogaboo, whom Tik-Tok assisted
in conquering our old acquaintance, the Nome King.
It also tells of Betsy Bobbin and how, after many
adventures, she finally reached the marvelous
Land of Oz.

There is a play called "The Tik-Tok Man of Oz,"
but it is not like this story of "Tik-Tok of Oz,"
although some of the adventures recorded in this
book, as well as those in several other Oz books,
are included in the play. Those who have seen the
play and those who have read the other Oz books
will find in this story a lot of strange
characters and adventures that they have never
heard of before.

In the letters I receive from children there has
been an urgent appeal for me to write a story that
will take Trot and Cap'n Bill to the Land of Oz,
where they will meet Dorothy and Ozma. Also
they think Button-Bright ought to get acquainted
with Ojo the Lucky. As you know, I am obliged
to talk these matters over with Dorothy by means
of the "wireless," for that is the only way I can
communicate with the Land of Oz. When I asked
her about this idea, she replied: "Why, haven't you
heard?" I said "No." "Well," came the message over
the wireless, "I'll tell you all about it, by and
by, and then you can make a book of that story for
the children to read."

So, if Dorothy keeps her word and I am permitted
to write another Oz book, you will probably
discover how all these characters came together in
the famous Emerald City. Meantime, I want to tell
all my little friends--whose numbers are increasing
by many thousands every year--that I am very
grateful for the favor they have shown my books and
for the delightful little letters I am constantly
receiving. I am almost sure that I have as many friends
among the children of America as any story writer
alive; and this, of course, makes me very proud and
happy.

--Dissolve gamboge in water; or French berries steeped in water,
the liquor strained, and gum arabic added.

554.

TO MIX
WATER-COLOURS
FOR ANIMALS
Horses, black.

--Black lightly
laid on, shaded
with Keating's black
and bistre, heightened with
masticot.

Horses, chestnut brown.--Red ochre
and black mixed together, shaded
with black, heightened with red
ochre and white.

Horses, grey.--Black and white mixed,
shaded with black, white, and
bistre; heightened with pure
water.

Lions.--Colour much in
the same manner as horses,
adding lake in the
ground colour.

Bears.--Brown ochre, red
ochre, and black,
mixed; shaded with
bistre and ivory black.

Wolves.

--Spanish liquorice and black, shaded with black.

Asses.

--Black and white mixed; or, add a little brown
ochre, shaded with black.

Elephants.--Black, white, and Spanish liquorice,
mixed; shaded with black and bistre; the inner
part of the nose, vermilion and white, shaded with
black.

Monkeys.--Dutch pink and black, heightened with
masticot and white:

the face, black and bistre mixed, as also their
feet; their bodies, shaded underneath with black
and pink mixed with a little brown ochre.

555. FRUIT IN WATER-COLOURS
Apples.--Thin masticot mixed with verdigris,
shaded with brown ochre.

Cherries.--Vermilion and lake, shaded with
carmine, heightened with vermilion and
white.

Grapes, blue.--Dark purple shaded with blue; the
bloom, bice.

Grapes, white.

--Verdigris and masticot mixed, shaded with
thin verdigris heightened with masticot and
white.

Peaches.--Thin masticot shaded with brown ochre;
the bloom, lake heightened with white.

Pears.--Masticot deepened and mellowed
with brown ochre.

Strawberries.--White; draw it over with vermilion
and lake, shaded with fine lake, heightened with red lead and
masticot mixed, and then with white; stipple them with white and
thin lead.

556.

TO PAINT FLOWERS
Anemones.--A thin wash of gamboge shaded with
bistre; or carmine and sap-green blended
together. The stripes carmine, shaded with the same;
indigo in the darkest parts, or stipple with
it.

Leaves.

--Sap-green, shaded with indigo and French berries;
the stalk brown.

Honeysuckles.--Inside of the petals, white shaded
with sap-green, or gamboge and bistre.

The insides are to be shown by curling the leaves
back at the ends, or by splitting them.

The outsides, a thin wash of carmine and lake mixed,
shaded with carmine--indigo for the darkest
shades.

Stalks.

--Sap-green and carmine.

Leaves.

--Sap-green, shaded with indigo and French
berries.

Roses.--A light tint of pure carmine, over which
another equally light of Peruvian blue; proceed
with the darker shades of carmine of the best sort.

In the darkest part of the flower add a little
indigo to give a roundness. If the seeds are
seen lay on gamboge, shaded with gall-stone.

Leaves.--Upper side, sap-green, shaded with indigo
and French berries mixed; under-side, white indigo
and sap-green mixed, shaded with the same.

Stalks.--Sap-green and carmine, shaded with
indigo.

Rose-buds.--A pale wash of carmine, shaded with a
stronger wash of the same.

Stalks and leaves, sap-green with a slight wash
of carmine.

557. BIRDS IN WATER-COLOURS
Eagles.

--black and brown, shaded with indigo; feathers
heightened by brown ochre and white; beak and claws
saffron, shaded with bistre; eyes vermilion,
heightened with masticot or saffron, shaded
with vermilion.

Geese.--Ceruse shaded with black; legs, black; bill,
red.

Owls.--Ochre mixed with white, in different
shades; legs, yellow ochre.

Pheasants.--White and black mixed; legs, Dutch pink,
shaded with black.

Swans.--White shaded with black; the legs and
bills black; eyes yellow; a ball in the midst.

Turkeys.--Black, black and white mixed, shaded
off to a white underneath; sprinkled and shaded
with black.

558. LANDSCAPES IN WATER-COLOURS

Sketch the outlines faintly with a black-lead
pencil. Then colour.

Colours.--The most useful are: lake, burnt ochre,
gamboge, indigo, light red, sepia, Prussian blue, sienna, and burnt
umber.

The gray colour is made of burnt umber, indigo,
and lake; each rubbed separately in a saucer, and then mixed in a
fourth saucer as to produce the exact colour--a warm gray.

This is thinned for the light tints, as sky
and distances.

Deeper is to be used for the shadows and
near parts, softening with water till the exact effect is produced.

Buildings are sometimes tinted with a mixture
of lake and gamboge.
Burnt ochre is also used.

The shadows have an excess of lake.

Breadths of Light are obtained by destroying the scattered lights
with grays.

Clouds are produced by a thin mixture of indigo
and lake. They should be tinted with sepia.
The lower or horizontal clouds are tinged with
ultramarine.

Figures are touched with lake and indigo.

Force is acquired by adding sepia to indigo, in the cold parts, and
sepia with lake to the glowing parts.

Grass is washed with a mixture of burnt sienna, indigo, and gamboge;
that in shadow has more indigo.

Grass and bushes may be brought out by a tint of
gamboge; distances may be heightened by lake.

Hills, retiring.

--Tint the whole with weak blue; then the
nearer ones with indigo and lake; add a little gamboge to the next,
keeping one subordinate to the other; the most distant being lost
in the aerial tints.

Land, distant.--Ultramarine and lake. Ground near
is tinted with ochre.

Road and Paths.--A mixture of lake, burnt
umber, and burnt sienna.

It may be tinted with ochre.

Smoke.--Lake and indigo.

Trees, distant.--Ultramarine, with a wash of
indigo, gamboge, and burnt sienna, tinted with gray.

The middle trees have a thin wash of burnt
sienna and gamboge. Nearer trees a wash
of burnt sienna, indigo, and gamboge. In the
shadows more indigo is used.

Opposing masses of trees are tinted with
sepia and indigo.

Windows.--Indigo and burnt umber.

559.

POTICHOMANIE
This elegant accomplishment, which has become so
extremely popular and fashionable, promises not only to supercede
altogether many of those accomplishments which have hitherto absorbed
the attention of our fair countrywomen, but to rank among the fine
arts.

Advantages of this Art.--It possesses many advantages:
and the process is simple and easily acquired.

It is an exceedingly pleasing and interesting employment, requiring
no previous knowledge of drawing, yet affording abundant space for
the exercise of the most exquisite taste.

The time employed is richly repaid; the results
produced are of actual value; articles of
ornament and domestic utility being produced,
in perfect imitation of the most beautiful
Chinese and Japanese porcelain, of Sevres and
Dresden china, and of every form that is usual in the productions
of the Ceramic Art.

It furnishes an inexhaustible and inexpensive
source for the production of useful and elegant presents, which
will be carefully preserved as tokens of friendship, and as proofs
of the taste and talent of the giver.

Articles necessary in the Art of Potichomanie.

--Glass vases, (Potiches en verre,) of shapes
suitable to the different orders of Chinese, Japanese, Etruscan,
and French porcelain, Alumettes, &c.; cups, plates, &c., &c., of
Sevres and Dresden design.

Sheets of coloured drawings or prints,
characteristic representations of the designs or decorations
suitable to every kind of porcelain and china.

A bottle of liquid gum, and three or four
hog-hair brushes.
A bottle of varnish, and very fine pointed scissors for cutting out.

An assortment of colours for the foundation,
in bottles. A packet of gold powder, and a
glass vessel for diluting the colours.

Directions.--We will suppose the object
selected for imitation to be a Chinese vase. After
providing yourself with a plain glass vase, of
the proper shape, you take your sheets of
coloured prints on which are depicted subjects
characteristic of that peculiar style. From these
sheets you can select a great variety of designs, of the most
varied character, on the arrangement and grouping of which you can
exercise your own taste.

After you have fully decided upon the
arrangement of your drawings, cut them out
accurately with a pair of scissors, then apply
some liquid gum carefully over the coloured
side of the drawings, and stick them on the
inside of the vase, according to your own
previous arrangement--pressing them down till they adhere closely,
without any bubbles of air appearing between the glass and the
drawings.

When the drawings have had sufficient time to
dry, take a fine brush and cover every part of
them (without touching the glass) with a coat of
parchment size or liquid gum, which prevents
the oil colour (which is next applied) from sinking
into or becoming absorbed by the paper. When
the interior of the vase is perfectly dry, and
any particles of gum size that may have been
left on the glass have been removed, your vase is
ready for the final and most important process.

You have now to tint the whole of the vase
with a proper colour to give it the appearance
of porcelain; for up to this time, you will
recollect, it is but a glass vase, with
a few coloured prints stuck thereon. Select
from your stock of prepared colours, in bottles,
the tint most appropriate to the kind of china
you are imitating, (as we are now supposed to be
making a Chinese vase, it will be of a greenish
hue,) mix fully sufficient colour in a glass
vessel, then pour the whole into the vase.
Take now your vase in both hands, and turn it
round continually in the same direction, until
the colour is equally spread over the whole of the
interior: when this is satisfactorily accomplished,
pour back the remainder. If the prepared colour
is too thick, add a little varnish to the mixture
before applying it.

If preferred, the colour may be laid on with a
soft brush. Should the vase be intended to hold
water, the interior must be well varnished after
the above operations, or lined with zinc or tin
foil. If the potichomanist wishes to decorate the
mouth of his vase with a gold border, he can do
so by mixing some gold powder in a few drops of the essence of
lavender and some varnish, applying it on the vase with a fine
brush; or he can purchase gold bands, already prepared for application,
in varied sheets, suitable to the potichomanie designs.

Potichomanists have found the art capable of
greater results than the mere imitation of porcelain
vases, by the introduction of glass panels
(previously decorated with beautiful flowers
on a white ground) into drawing-room doors, and
also into walls which, being panel papered,
offer opportunities of introducing centre pieces
of the same character as the doors; elegant chess and work-tables,
folding and cheval-screens, panels for cabinets, chiffoniers and
book-cases, slabs for pier and console-tables, glove-boxes, covers
for books, music, albums, &c.

The most common cause of failure is, that the drawings inside are
not thoroughly pressed down.

560.

COLOURING FOR CHEESE
The colouring for cheese is, or at least should
be, Spanish arnotto; but as soon as colouring
became general in this country, a colour
of an adulterated kind was exposed for sale in almost every shop;
the weight of a guinea and a half of real Spanish arnotto is
sufficient for a cheese of fifty pounds' weight.

If a considerable part of the cream of the
night's milk be taken for butter, more colouring
will be requisite. The leaner the cheese is, the
more colouring it requires. The manner of
using arnotto is to tie up, in a linen rag, the
quantity deemed sufficient, and put into half a
pint of warm water over night. This infusion
is put into the tub of milk, in the morning, with
the rennet infusion; dipping the rag into the
milk, and rubbing it against the palm of the hand
as long as any colour runs out.

561. TO SHARPEN EDGE TOOLS
Take equal parts of flour of emery and crocus;
make into a paste with sweet oil; have now a piece
of buck-skin, (hemlock tan,) tack it by
each end on a piece of board, with the grain
uppermost; then on this spread a little of the
paste, and sharpen your tools on it.

You will, indeed, be astonished at the effect.

Try it.

562. BLUE COMPOSITION FOR DYEING
Take equal parts of vitriol and indigo; powder
them very finely, separately, and mix.

563. TO GILD LETTERS ON VELLUM OR PAPER

Letters written on vellum or paper are gilded in
three ways; in the first, a little size is mixed
with the ink, and the letters are written as usual;
when they are dry, a slight degree of stickiness
is produced by breathing on them, upon which the gold leaf is
immediately applied, and by a little pressure may be made to adhere
with sufficient firmness.

In the second method, some white lead of chalk is
ground up with strong size, and the letters
are made with this by means of a brush; when the
mixture is almost dry, the gold leaf may be laid
on, and afterwards burnished. The last method is
to mix up some gold powder with size, and make
the letters of this by means of a brush.

564.

TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRY PLANTS

Sir Joseph Banks, from a variety of
experiments, and the experience of many years, recommends a general
revival of the now almost obsolete practice of laying straw under
strawberry plants, when the fruit begins to swell; by which means
the roots are shaded from the sun, the waste of moisture by evaporation
prevented, the leaning fruit kept from damage by resting on the
ground, particularly in wet weather, and much labour in watering
saved.

Twenty trusses of long straw are sufficient for
1800 feet of plants.

565.

MANAGEMENT OF STRAWBERRY PLANTS
On the management of strawberries in June and July,
the future prosperity of them greatly depends; and
if each plant has not been kept separate, by cutting off the
runners, they will be in a state of confusion, and you will find
three different sorts of plants. 1.

Old plants, whose roots are turned black, hard,
and woody. 2. Young plants, not strong enough
to flower. 3. Flowering plants, which ought only
to be there, and perhaps not many of them.

Before the time of flowering is quite over, examine
them, and pull up every old plant which has not
flowered; for, if once they have omitted to flower,
you may depend upon it they never will produce
any after, being too old, and past bearing; but
to be fully convinced, leave two or three, set a
stick to them, and observe them the next year.

If the young plants, runners of last year, be
too thick, take some of them away, and do not leave
them nearer than a foot of the scarlet, alpines, and wood, and
fifteen or sixteen inches of all the larger sorts; and in the first
rainy weather in July or August, take them all up, and make a fresh
plantation with them, and they will be very strong plants for
flowering next year.

Old beds, even if the plants be kept single at their proper distance,
examine, and pull all the old plants which have not flowered.

When the fruit is nearly all gathered,
examine them again, and cut off the runners;
but if you want to make a fresh plantation,
leave some of the two first, and cut off all the rest.

Then stir up the ground with a trowel, or three-pronged fork, and
in August they will be fit to transplant.

If you have omitted in July, do not fail in August,
that the runners may make good roots, to be
transplanted in September; for, if later, the worms
will draw them out of the ground, and the frost
afterwards will prevent them from striking root; the consequence
of which is, their not flowering the next spring; and you will lose
a year.

566.

THE LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS
What each flower enumerated, signifies,
when sent to a friend or lover.

Almond, flowering--Concealed love.

Althea, Frutex--I am deeply in love.
Amaranth--Immortality, or piety.
Anemone--Fading hope.
Arbor-Vitae--Unchanging friendship.
Auricula, Scarlet--Pride. You are proud.
Bachelor's button--Hope in love.
Balm--I long for your society.
Balsamine--Impatience; or, pray come.
Bay Leaf--I change but in dying.

Box--I believe in your constancy.
Buttercup--Riches. You are rich.
Calla Ethiopica--Magnificent beauty.
Carnation--Pride and Beauty.
Camelia Japonica--Surpassing excellence.

Cedar--Think of me.
China Aster--Caprice.
Cypress--Despair, and without hope.
Dahlia--Dignity--I will sustain it.
Daisy--Youthful beauty.

Dandelion--Coquetry, I accuse you of.
Eglantine--I wound to heal.
Forget-me-not--True love for ever.
Fox-glove--Insincerity. You are false.
Geranium--Gentility and elegance.
Gilly-Flower--Thou art fair.

Golden Rod--Encouragement. You will succeed.
Grass--Submission.
Heart's Ease--Love in idleness.
Heliotrope--Devotion. Let us pray for each other.
Hellebore--Calumny. You have listened.
Hollyhock--Ambition. I seek glory.
Honeysuckle--Dost thou love me?
Houstonia--Content ever with thee.
Hyacinth, Purple--Sorrow. I am sad.
Hydrangea--Heartlessness.
Ivy--Wedded Love. We are happy.
Jasmine, White--I desire a return of my
affection.
Larkspur--Haughtiness.
Laurel--Ambition. I will win.
Laurustinus--A token. Pray remember.
Lavender--Acknowledgment.

Lilac--Fastidiousness.
Lily, White--Purity and beauty.
Magnolia--You are beautiful.
Marigold--Jealousy--I have cause.
Mignionette--I live for thee.
Moss--Patience, or pray wait.
Oak-Leaf--Courage. I will endure.
Passion-Flower--Piety. Trust in God.
Periwinkle--Memory.

Never forget.
Pink--Household love. I am at home.
Poppy--Forgetfulness.
Primrose--Neglected merit.
Rose--Love, or I love you.
Rue--Disdain. Go: never return.

Saffron--Marriage--when?
Snow-drop--Faithful in adversity.

Thyme--Thriftiness. I am diligent.
Tulip--Beautiful eyes. Look on me.
Violet--I dream of thee.

Willow--Forsaken--never more.
Wheat--Prosperity--I wish thee.

Yew--Penitence. I am sorry.

567.

FRENCH POLISH FOR BOOTS, &c.

Logwood chips, half a pound; glue, quarter
of an ounce; soft soap, quarter of an ounce; isinglass, quarter
of an ounce; boil these ingredients in two pints of vinegar and one
of water, during ten minutes after ebulition, then strain the liquid.

When cold it is fit for use. To apply the French
polish, the dirt must be washed from the boots,
&c.; when these are quite dry, the liquid polish
is put on with a bit of sponge.

568. AN ILLUMINOUS BOTTLE
By putting a piece of phosphorus, the size of a pea, into a phial,
and adding boiling oil until the bottle is a third full, a luminous
bottle is formed; for, on taking out the cork, to admit atmospheric
air, the empty space in the bottle will become luminous.

Whenever the stopper is taken out in the night,
sufficient light will be evolved to show the
hour upon a watch; and if care be taken to keep
it in general well closed, it will preserve its
illuminative power for several months.

569. CHINESE METHOD OF MENDING CHINA
Take a piece of flint-glass, beat it to a fine
powder, and grind it well with the white of an egg, and it joins
china without riveting, so that no art can break it in the same
place.

You are to observe, that the composition is
to be ground extremely fine.

570. TO MAKE STILTON CHEESE
Take the night's cream, and put it in the
morning's new milk, with the rennet; when the curd is come it is
not to be broken, as is done with other cheeses, but take it out
with a soil dish all together, and place it on a sieve to drain
gradually, and, as it drains, keep gradually pressing it, till it
becomes firm and dry; then place it in a wooden hoop; afterwards
to be kept dry on boards, turned frequently, with cloth-binders
round it, which are to be tightened as occasion requires.

In some dairies the cheese, after being taken
out of the wooden hoop, are bound tight round
with a cloth, which cloth is changed every
day until the cheese becomes firm enough to support itself; after
the cloth is taken away, they are rubbed every day all over, for
two or three months, with a brush; and if the weather is damp or
moist, twice a day; and even before the cloth is taken off, the top
and bottom are well rubbed every day.

571.

TO PRESERVE BEER

In a cask containing eighteen gallons of beer,
becoming vapid, put a pint of ground malt,
suspended in a bag, and close the bung perfectly; the beer will
be improved during the whole time of drawing it for use.

572.

TO RECOVER SOUR BEER
When beer has become sour, put into the barrel some oyster-shells,
calcined to whiteness, or a little fine chalk or whiting.

Any of these will correct the acidity, and
make the beer brisk and sparkling; but it cannot
be kept long after these additions are made.

573. CARVACROL--THE NEW REMEDY FOR TOOTH-ACHE
Dr.

Bushman gives (in the Medical Times) the following
account of this new compound, which, though well known in Germany
as a quick and effectual cure for one of the most worrying ills
"that flesh is heir to," is now for the first time published in
England.

Carvacrol is an oily liquid, with a strong taste and unpleasant odor.

It may be made by the action of iodine on oil of
caraway or on camphor. A few drops applied on cotton
wool (to a decayed and painful tooth) give
immediate relief. Carvacrol much resembles
creosote in appearance, and is used in similar
cases of tooth-ache, but its effect is much more
speedy and certain.

574. CAMPHOR CERATE FOR CHAPPED HANDS
The following receipt was given to the contributor by a maid of
honour to Queen Victoria.

It is an excellent one. Scrape into an earthen
vessel one ounce and a half of spermaceti and
half an ounce of white wax; add six drachms of
pounded camphor, and four tablespoonsful of the best olive oil.

Let it stand near the fire till it dissolves,
stirring it well when liquid. Before the hands are
washed, rub them thoroughly with a little of the cerate, then wash
them as usual.

Putting the cerate on before retiring answers
very well.

This quantity costs about twenty-five cents,
and will last three winters. The vessel it is
kept in should be covered, to prevent evaporation.

575.

THE WAY TO WEALTH
"The way to wealth," says Doctor Franklin, "is as
plain as the way to market."
Many men, however, either miss the way, or stumble
and fall on the road.

Fortune, they say, is a fickle dame--full of her
freaks and caprices; who blindly distributes
her favours without the slightest discrimination.
So inconsistent, so wavering is she represented,
that her most faithful votaries can place no reliance on her
promises.

Disappointment, they tell us, is the lot of
those who make offerings to her shrine. Now, all
this is a vile slander upon the dear blind
lady.

Although wealth often appears the result of
mere accident, or a fortunate concurrence of
favourable circumstances, without any exertion of skill or foresight,
yet every man of sound health and unimpaired mind may become wealthy,
if he takes the proper steps.

Foremost in the list of requisites, are honesty
and strict integrity in every transaction of
life. Let a man have the reputation of being fair
and upright in his dealings, and he will possess
the confidence of all who know him.

Without these qualities, every other merit
will prove unavailing.
Ask concerning a man, "Is he active and capable?"
Yes. "Industrious, temperate, and regular in his
habits?" O Yes. "Is he honest? is he trustworthy?"
Why, as to that, I am sorry to say that he is not
to be trusted; he wants watching; he is a little tricky, and will
take an undue advantage, if he can.

"Then I will have nothing to do with him:"
will be the invariable reply.

Next, let us consider the advantages of a cautious circumspection
in our intercourse with the world.

Slowness of belief, and a proper distrust are
essential to success.

The credulous and confiding are ever the dupes of knaves and
impostors.

Ask those who have lost their property how it
happened, and you will find in most cases it has been owing to
misplaced confidence.

One has lost by endorsing; another by crediting;
another by false representatives; all of which
a little more foresight and a little more
distrust would have prevented.

In the affairs of this world, men are not saved by
faith, but by the want of it.

Judge men by what they do, not by what they say.
Believe in looks rather than in words.

Before trusting a man, before putting it in
his power to cause you a loss, possess
yourself of every available information relative
to him.

If you die, do
not blame me, for I was obliged to shoot you
as a matter of self-protection."

"I shall not die," answered the monster, "for I
bear a charmed life. But I beg you not to leave
me!"

"Why not?" asked Files.

"Because my broken jaw will heal in about an
hour, and then I shall be able to eat you. My wing
will heal in a day and my leg will heal in a week,
when I shall be as well as ever. Having shot me,
and so caused me all this annoyance, it is only
fair and just that you remain here and allow me to
eat you as soon as I can open my jaws."

"I beg to differ with you," returned the soldier
firmly. "I have made an engagement with Queen
Ann of Oogaboo to help her conquer the world,
and I cannot break my word for the sake of being
eaten by a Rak."

"Oh; that's different," said the monster. "If
you've an engagement, don't let me detain you."

So Files felt around in the dark and grasped
the hand of the trembling Queen, whom he led
away from the flapping, sighing Rak. They
stumbled over the stones for a way but presently
began to see dimly the path ahead of them, as
they got farther and farther away from the
dreadful spot where the wounded monster lay.
By and by they reached a little hill and could
see the last rays of the sun flooding a pretty
valley beyond, for now they had passed beyond
the cloudy breath of the Rak. Here were huddled
the sixteen officers, still frightened and panting
from their run. They had halted only because
it was impossible for them to run any farther.

Queen Ann gave them a severe scolding for
their cowardice, at the same time praising Files
for his courage.

"We are wiser than he, however," muttered
General Clock, "for by running away we are
now able to assist Your Majesty in conquering
the world; whereas, had Files been eaten by the
Rak, he would have deserted your Army."

After a brief rest they descended into the
valley, and as soon as they were out of sight of
the Rak the spirits of the entire party rose
quickly. Just at dusk they came to a brook, on
the banks of which Queen Ann commanded
them to make camp for the night.

Each officer carried in his pocket a tiny white
tent. This, when placed upon the ground, quickly
grew in size until it was large enough to permit
the owner to enter it and sleep within its canvas
walls. Files was obliged to carry a knapsack, in
which was not only his own tent but an elaborate
pavilion for Queen Ann, besides a bed and chair
and a magic table. This table, when set upon the
ground in Ann's pavilion, became of large size,
and in a drawer of the table was contained the
Queen's supply of extra clothing, her manicure and
toilet articles and other necessary things. The
royal bed was the only one in the camp, the
officers and private sleeping in hammocks attached
to their tent poles.

There was also in the knapsack a flag bearing
the royal emblem of Oogaboo, and this flag Files
flew upon its staff every night, to show that the
country they were in had been conquered by the
Queen of Oogaboo. So far, no one but themselves
had seen the flag, but Ann was pleased to see it
flutter in the breeze and considered herself
already a famous conqueror.


Chapter Four

Betsy Braves the Billows


The waves dashed and the lightning flashed and the
thunder rolled and the ship struck a rock. Betsy
Bobbin was running across the deck and the shock
sent her flying through the air until she fell
with a splash into the dark blue water. The same
shock caught Hank, a thin little, sad-faced mule,
and tumbled him also into the sea, far from the
ship's side.

When Betsy came up, gasping for breath because
the wet plunge had surprised her, she reached out
in the dark and grabbed a bunch of hair. At first
she thought it was the end of a rope, but
presently she heard a dismal "Hee-haw!" and knew
she was holding fast to the end of Hank's tail.

Suddenly the sea was lighted up by a vivid
glare. The ship, now in the far distance, caught
fire, blew up and sank beneath the waves.

The heat is got up on the pipe by dropping
the solder on the run and on the branch, catching
the surplus solder on the catch cloth and heating
the under side of the joint with it. To form
the joint, distribute the solder and then wipe
it into shape. Notice that I said wipe it into
shape. A beginner is very apt to try to push
or poke it into shape.

This must not be done as it has a tendency
to make the joint lumpy. All the edges are
wiped off clean first, then the body of the joint
is shaped and wiped. When forming the joint,
be sure that the bottom and the top are symmetrical.

Do not have one-half larger than the other. The
last wiping strokes are made swiftly and rapidly.
If the wiper will watch his movements and
note the results and then try to improve them,
keeping in mind that a symmetrical joint is wanted
with thin edges, perfection in wiping will
come much more quickly than if no attention is paid
to the strokes made when wiping.

BRANCH JOINT WIPED FLAT
The materials required for this joint do not
differ from the preceding one.

If the pipe used for the branch joint at a 45°
angle is in good shape, it can be used for this
joint by simply changing positions.

The tools needed will not be any different. The
ladle and the wiping cloths, of course will be
required. A pair of pliers can be used to advantage
in picking up the hot solder. The wiping cloths
should receive a little more oil to keep them
soft and pliable. Oil the edges of the cloths well.

SUPPORTING.--To support this pipe for wiping
have each end rest on a brick. Each end can be
weighted to hold it in place.

WIPING.

--To wipe this joint, proceed to drop the solder
on the joint. When the pipe is thoroughly
heated and the solder works freely around the
pipe the joint can be wiped. The procedure is
like the preceding one.

The wiper is cautioned to move the ladle
constantly while dropping the solder.

BRANCH HELD VERTICAL
After a number of the previous joints have been
wiped successfully, the pipe is placed in such a
position that the branch will be vertical. The
supporting of the pipe to hold the joint in this position for
wiping is very easily done after handling the 5/8-in.
joint in this position.

The following points may be found helpful:
The solder is splashed on the joint from the ladle.

The top edge of the joint is kept hot by keeping the solder covering
it.

When the proper heat has been got up, the top
edge is wiped first, then the bottom edges
both front and back. The body of the joint is
wiped last and a cross wipe finishes the joint.
I have found that the beginner in many cases, when this joint is
reached, tries to wipe it with many short strokes.

The habit is a bad one and should be stopped
as soon as noticed. Learn to wipe the top edge
with only two strokes, the bottom edge with not
more than four, the body of the joint with four, and one cross
wipe to finish.

This joint should be finished as symmetrically
as possible and wiped while the solder is hot.

RUN HELD VERTICALLY
When the vertical branch has been conquered and the
wiper can get a good joint every time it
is tried, the pipe can be changed to a different position.

The run is placed in a vertical position and
the branch horizontally to the left. The
catch pan is put under the end of the pipe.
Follow the same directions for supporting this joint as were given
under the 5/8-in. branch placed in a similar position.

The wiping of this joint is so nearly like the
preceding branch joints that I will not give any
instructions at all. This joint is finished at the
same point that the other branch joints are finished.
However, there are one or two matters that should
be kept in mind. Some of the small matters
are often overlooked and should be called to mind occasionally.

Do not allow the solder to accumulate in the
pan. If the cloths are burned, they should
be turned, or new ones made. If the paper has started
to come off from the pipe, new paper should be
put on at once. Test the solder occasionally
and see that it does not get too hot.

Upon completion of the joint in this position,
the branch joint in its various positions is
finished. The beginner has found out while
wiping these various joints a number of points
that were not mentioned in my description. No
amount of detailed description will make a good
joint wiper.

Patience and practice are as important in
joint wiping as good preparation and good solder.

POINTS TO REMEMBER.--
_First_, materials--18 inches of 1-1/2-in. lead
pipe.

_Second_, use of tools.

_Third_, keep bending irons away from the wall
of the pipe.

_Fourth_, make a good collar around the opening.

_Fifth_, make a tight fit with branch and run.

_Sixth_, hot solder will quickly burn through the lead.

_Seventh_, use branch cloth for wiping.

_Eighth_, cut out paper for joint even and symmetrical.

BIB
This joint is another brass to lead, and is the
last single joint to be wiped in this course of
joint wiping.

MATERIALS NEEDED.--The materials required for
this joint are as follows: 10 inches of 5/8-inch extra strong lead
pipe; one 1/2-inch brass sink bib for lead pipe; one pot of solder,
paste and paper, 1/2 and 1/2 solder, catch pan, and supports.

[Illustration: FIG. 31.]
TOOLS REQUIRED.

--The tools required for this job are the saw,
rasp, tap borer, bending irons, file, ladle, wiping cloths, shave
hook, knife and rule, soldering iron.

PREPARATION.--To prepare the lead pipe after
cutting from the coil and squaring the ends with the rasp is very
similar to the 5/8-inch branch joint.

The center of the pipe is marked and a hole is
made in it with the tap borer large enough to admit
the bending irons.
The hole is enlarged with the irons. A good
substantial collar is made around the hole to hold the bib in place.

One and one-eighth inches are marked off on
each side of the branch and an easy curve connects
the two.

The paper is then cut out and pasted on the pipe
after it has been scraped with the shave hook.

The end of the brass bib is filed bright and
tinned with the soldering iron and 1/2 and 1/2
solder. Before the tinning is done, paper is
put on the brass, leaving only 1-1/8 inches
exposed.

The tinning must be thoroughly done, or it will
come off and have to be re-tinned.

SUPPORTING.

--The bib is fitted into the lead opening and the collar is forced
against the bib to hold it in place and prevent any solder from
leaking through into the bore of the pipe.

The bib must not extend too far into the lead
pipe or it will obstruct the flow of water.

The lead pipe is laid on two bricks the same
as the round joint. The bib is laid on an angle
of 45° pointing away from the wiper. Some
bricks can be piled up to the right height to hold
the bib in place and a solder strap can be made to hold it steady.

The lead pipe can be held steady by weighting
each end. The catch pan is now placed under the
joint and everything is ready for wiping.

[Illustration: FIG. 32.--Bib.]

WIPING.--When the solder is hot, getting
the heat on the pipe is started. Solder should be
dropped oftener on the brass bib than on the lead
pipe. It takes more heat to heat the brass
thoroughly than it does the lead. If this is
followed out, little difficulty will be had
in getting up the heat and in wiping.

Use the branch cloth for wiping and make sure
that all edges are perfectly cleaned before making
the final strokes. As this is the only position
that the joint will be wiped in, practice should be continued until
perfect joints can be obtained.

POINTS TO REMEMBER.--
_First_, materials needed.

_Second_, tools needed.

_Third_, use tap borer.

_Fourth_, enlarge hole with bending irons.

_Fifth_, make substantial collar around the opening.

_Sixth_, paper the lead.

_Seventh_, file the bib, then paper.

_Eighth_, tin the bib.

_Ninth_, place in position and wipe.

DRUM TRAP
The making of the drum trap will bring out the
skill of the beginner. The entire trap is made
of lead pipe. The lead will require a great deal
of handling. Therefore, care must be exercised in
all operations to turn the trap out in a
workmanlike manner.

MATERIALS NEEDED.

--The materials needed to complete this job
are:

10 inches of 4-inch 8-pound lead pipe; 18
inches of 1-1/2-inch light lead pipe; paste and
paper, support, solder, and catch pan.

TOOLS NEEDED.--The tools required for this job
are: saw, rasp, bending irons, shave hook, bending spring, tap
borer, dresser, ladle, drift plug, and wiping cloths.

[Illustration: FIG. 33.--Drum trap.]
PREPARING.

--Take the 10-inch piece of lead pipe and hold
it in one hand, in the other hand take a pine
dresser. Strike the lead pipe with the dresser.
The pipe is struck about 2 inches from the end and is beaten evenly
all around.

The pipe is then struck nearer the end until
finally the bore of the pipe is almost closed.
This closed end should be rounding and symmetrical.
To get this shape the pipe must be continually
moved and turned.

One side must not be forced in more than the
other.

If there are any dents in the pipe or part of the pipe is forced
in too much it may be driven out as follows: Take an old piece of
1/2-inch lead pipe and round one end of it with a hammer; this can
be used by hitting the inside of the closed end of the drum and
forcing out the dents.

The rounded end of the trap is not quite
closed and a hole about 3/4 inch is left.

This opening is closed by shaping the edges
of it with the knife, making them smooth and
beveled. Then a piece of lead is cut out of some
scrap, the same shape as the hole and fitted into it.

The top surface of this fitted piece should be a little lower than
the surface of the pipe.

Strike a circle, using the compasses, the
center of the circle being the center of the
inserted piece of lead. The lead inside of this
circle is shaved clean with the shave hook,
including the inserted piece. Paper is then pasted
outside of the circle and should cover entirely the
rest of the pipe.

The inserted piece is wiped on the pipe as
follows:

WIPING END.--Stand the 4-in. pipe in a pan with the
rounded end of the pipe up. Be sure that the
inserted piece is fitted securely.
The solder is now dropped on the paper and shaved portion of the
pipe.

Exercise considerable care not to burn a hole in the pipe.

As the hot solder runs off, catch some of it
and draw it back on the joint. When the solder can
be manipulated freely and the pipe is hot, the joint can be wiped.

The cloth is drawn across the joint, cleaning all
the edges with one stroke. The joint should be
shaped to complete the rounding surface of the pipe.

The joint is comparatively easy and will not
occupy much time.

As soon as it is wiped, cover the solder with
paper. This will preserve the freshness of the
joint until all wiping is completed.

PREPARING INLET PIPE
After the above joint is completed, the 1-1/2-in. branch inlet pipe
is prepared and wiped in place.

The center of this branch is marked on the
4-inch pipe and a hole is tapped in the pipe, using the tap borer.

A hole large enough to admit the bending irons is made.

The hole is enlarged with the bending irons,
bending the lead first _up_, then _back_.

A piece of 1/2-inch iron pipe can be used as a tool to finish the
opening.

The iron pipe is larger in diameter than the bending irons and
leaves a more finished surface.

The opening is made of sufficient size to
admit the rasped end of the 1-1/2-inch pipe.

When using the irons to enlarge the opening
in the pipe, be sure not to bruise any part of the trap.

The 1-1/2-inch pipe is now taken. The ends of
this pipe are squared with the rasp. The
drift plug is then driven through the pipe to take out any bruises
or flattened places.

The edge of one end is rasped off to fit the
opening made in the 4-inch pipe.

The beginner must strive to make a perfect
fit. The accuracy with which these preparations
are made is what helps in a large degree to bring
about a successful job. The next operation
is to paper the parts not to be wiped. The
sizes of the joint should be followed as shown on the sketch.

The pipe is first shaved with the
shave hook, after which the paper is pasted on.

No paste is allowed to get on the joint proper.
The beginner should by this time have formed the
habit of being neat with his work. Therefore the
getting of paste on the joint surface shows that
he is not as neat or as far advanced as he
should be.

SUPPORTING.--The drum is laid lengthwise on the
bench and blocks are put on each side to keep it from rolling, the
branch uppermost.

The 1-1/2-inch pipe is held in position
the same way as the vertical branch was held.
The catch pan is put under the drum to catch
the surplus solder.

WIPING.--Splash the solder on the branch pipe,
also on the drum.
The burning through of the drum is an easy matter.
Therefore do not keep dropping the solder on one place, but keep
the ladle moving continually.

With the catch cloth draw the solder up on the branch covering the
top edge of the prepared surface.

Splashing the solder on this top edge melts
the solder already on and allows it to run down
on the 4-inch pipe where it is caught with the
cloth and again brought up on the top edge of
the branch. When the solder works freely all
around the joint, the top edge is wiped clean and even.

Then any surplus solder is wiped off. The
bottom edge is next wiped clean, after which the body of the joint
is wiped into shape, together with both edges.

The edges are wiped very thin so that when the
paper is removed the outline of the joint
stands out very distinctly. A thick edge on a
joint gives an unworkmanlike appearance to
the work. The joint is finished with a cross
wipe.

The other joints are prepared and wiped the same
as the one just completed.

The 1-1/2-inch branch connection taken out
of the bottom of the trap is bent.

As this is the first time it has been necessary to bend lead pipe
in these jobs, I will cover this operation in detail.

The pipe is first straightened and the drift
plug driven through it. The pipe is marked where
the bend is to be made.

The bending spring, size 1-1/2 inches, is put into the pipe, the
center of the spring coming about where the bend is to be made.

The pipe is then heated where it was marked to
be bent.

The proper heat for this pipe is just so that
the hand cannot stand being laid against it. The
pipe is held in the hands and on the end nearest the heat is hit
against the floor at an angle.

The pipe, with the first blow, will start to
bend. With a few more strokes the desired
bend will be obtained. The bending spring can
now be pulled out.

Put a little water in the pipe, then put one end
of the spring in the vise, twist the pipe, and the
spring will come out when the pipe is pulled away from it.

The bending spring holds the pipe cylindrical
while it is being bent.

Without the spring, the pipe would be badly
crushed at the bend and rendered almost unfit for
service.
"I'd like to
see those Royal Gardens before I die."

"So would I," added Shaggy Man. "Take us there,
Gardener."

"Oh, I can't do that," objected the Gardener.
But Shaggy again showed him the Love Magnet
and after one glance at it the Gardener could
no longer resist.

He led Shaggy, Betsy and Hank to the end
of the great greenhouse and carefully unlocked
a small door. Passing through this they came
into the splendid Royal Garden of the Rose
Kingdom.

It was all surrounded by a tall hedge and within
the enclosure grew several enormous rosebushes
having thick green leaves of the texture of
velvet. Upon these bushes grew the members of the
Royal Family of the Rose Kingdom--men, women and
children in all stages of maturity. They all
seemed to have a light green hue, as if unripe or
not fully developed, their flesh and clothing
being alike green. They stood perfectly lifeless
upon their branches, which swayed softly in the
breeze, and their wide open eyes stared straight
ahead, unseeing and unintelligent.

While examining these curious growing people,
Betsy passed behind a big central bush and at once
uttered an exclamation of surprise and pleasure.
For there, blooming in perfect color and shape,
stood a Royal Princess, whose beauty was amazing.

"Why, she's ripe!" cried Betsy, pushing aside
some of the broad leaves to observe her more
clearly.

"Well, perhaps so," admitted the Gardener,
who had come to the girl's side; "but she's a girl,
and so we can't use her for a Ruler."

"No, indeed!" came a chorus of soft voices,
and looking around Betsy discovered that all the
Roses had followed them from the greenhouse
and were now grouped before the entrance.

FLAXEN GREY This is obtained turn his head towards
you, then stop, and pet him all you can; to make a
horse, A VICIOUS HORS E How to acquire the most perfect control
over the most vicious and wildest horse it.

When he has a few lessons like this, any
lad may ride him in safety. 309.

TO MAKE A STALLION LIE DOWN How to make the
worst stallion lie down's whipping with raw-hide.

In fact he cannot stand it; no matter how
ugly his tricks may be, such as kicking," balking
or anything else, if you utilize the persuader
on at the time, you can conquer him at once; make him as meek as
a lamb, and glad to do anything to escape the torture inflicted by
the persuader.

A few times is all you will have human to
use it, even on the most sulky beast, until and
allow you to perform No. 306, and if the boy is to ride him, after
the horse is on his by a mixture of white lead and Prussian blue,
with a small quantity of lake. 271. adobe COLOUR This is prepared
by mixing yellow but ochre, and red lead, with a little white lead.
272.

OAK WOOD COLOUR Mix together three-fourths white
lead, and one-fourth part umber and yellow
ochre; the proportions of the last two you
again; after a little use him the same way in a small yard, and
after this you can do as you like with him in any place. 306.

HORSES WITH TENDER EARS How to be pickled;
then fill the jar or bottle with vinegar. If you
add alum at all let it pink, and white lead.
This colour is only proper for distemper.
275. LEMON YELLO W Mix together realgar and
orpiment some object to this mixture on account
of the poisonous nature of the ingredients.

The same colour can obtained by mixing with Naples
yellow; but it is then only fit for distemper.
276. ORANGE COLOUR For this colour mix red lead
and yellow ochre. 277. VIOLET COLOUR, by
mixing vermillion, or red lead, with black or blue, and a small
portion of white:?

, with a little verdigris and lamp-black; or ochre and a small
quantity of white, will also produce a kind of olive colour.

For distemper, indigo and yellow-pink, mixed with
white lead Spanish white, must be used.

If veined, it should be done with umber.
282. LEAD COLOUR Mix turned together indigo and
black lead or whiting. 283.

CHESTNUT COLOUR years old can ride or handle
him in perfect safety. This is done
by means of the persuader receipts No. 305
and put a headstall on him, and to its ring Mix red-ochre and
black, for a dark-chestnut.

To make it lighter, employ a mixture of yellow-ochre.
284. LIGHT TIMBER COLOUR For this colour mix
together spruce-ochre, white and a little umber. 285.

FLESH COLOUR Mix lake account of the fatness
of the lamp-black, mix some litharge and red
lead. 291.

PORTLAND STONE COLOUR Mix umber, yellow ochre, and
white lead.

The variety of shades of brown that may be
obtained, are nearly as numerous as those of
green. 292. TO IMITATE MAHOGANY Let the first
coat of painting be white lead, the second orange, and the last
burned umber or sienna; imitating the veins according to your taste
and practice. 293.

TO IMITATE WAINSCOAT Let the first coat be
white, the second half white and half yellow-ochre,
and the third yellow-ochre only.

Shadow with umber or sienna. 294. TO IMITATE
SATIN WOOD Take white for your first coating,
light blue for the second PATENT YELLO W PAINT When sea-salt is
made into a with litharge, it is decomposed, its acid far unites
with the litharge, and the soda is set bound.

Hence Turner's patent process for decomposing
sea-salt, which consists in mixing white with are very mixing two
parts of the former with one of the latter, moistening and leaving
them ingredients being determined by the required tints. articles
halter and lead him about the floor; it at any time he clears from
you, pay the whip well on hips until he comes to together for about
twenty-four hours.

The product is then washed, filtered, HORSES
How to make a horse stand to be shod. This is
accomplished by having the persuader fitted on, and sight whenever
the horse soon be glad to stand as quiet as a lamb. 314. and
evaporated, by our which soda is obtained. her A white substance
is now left undissolved; it is a compound of muriatic acid and lead,
which, when heated, changes its colour, and forms Turner's yellow;
a very beautiful colour, much in use among coach-painters. 296.

TO PAINT IN IMITATION OF BLACK WALNUT Wash
the surface of the wood with weak alum-water, after being well
sand-papered; then go over it with linseed oil, coloured with murat
amber and red, and the surface will be nearly as hard.

NOTE For mixing the foregoing paints it is impossible to lay down
any particular rule as to turpentine, and sometimes a little japan
is added to assist in drying.

When they are not mixed in this way the
particular mode is mentioned. 297. RULES FOR MAKING
PICKLES Select the best.

Small cucumbers, beans, white-lead, and a little
vermilion. 286. LIGHT WILLO or fifty cucumbers
is sufficient; if the vinegar on pickles becomes
white or weak, take it out and scald and skim it,
then return it to the pickles. 298.

ASPARAGUS PICKLED Cut and wash the heads
of the largest asparagus; place them in cold water for two hours;
scald carefully in salt and water, then lay on a cloth until cool;
make a pickle of salt and vinegar and boil it; to one gallon of
pickles put a quarter of an ounce of mace, two nutmegs, a quarter
of an ounce of whole pepper, and pour your pickle hot over them,
cover tight with a cloth, and let stand a week, then boil the pickle,
and let stand" a week again, and boil again, when cold, cover
closely. 299.

BEANS AND. FRENCH BEANS PICKLED Lay them in
salt and water for nine days; add a little vinegar
and boil them in the liquor; when they become green
strain them, wipe them dry, and put the beans into the jar; boil
some vinegar, ginger, mace, pepper, cloves, and mustard seed, all
bruised, and while hot pour it on beans; cover them close when cold.
300.

TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE Take the quarter of
ochre the, yellow ochre, you and umber, mixed according
to the shade the persuader. 312. BALKY HORSES
How to make the worst of balky horses pull
true.

Whenever your horse balks, if you there and
then, openly and publicly make use least injury
to the animal. One until pull on this persuader
is of the persuader, and jerk him added well
with it, he will be glad to go, in a short time
you will have to loud and stern tone of voice,
pull on the persuader, and it sought. If
veining is required, use different shades
of the same mixture, and for the deepest places,
me black.. JONQUIL Mix together yellow, each
layer of cabbage with salt, which let lay and drain
for two or three days, then put into a The jar and, boil some
vinegar with spice tied up in a muslin bag, cut a beet root of good
colour into slices; the branches of cauliflower cut off after it
has lain in salt will look and be of a beautiful red; put it" into
a stone jar and pour boiling vinegar over it. 301.

TO PICKLE, CUCUMBERS Lay them upon dishes,
sprinkle salt over them, let them lie a week,
drain then off, and put them into stone jars, so
until they are a good colour; as, to make a better green, you must
use a mettle stew pan or brass kettles, which spoons with holes to
dish all pickles, keeping them always well covered and free from.
302.

TO PICKLE ONIONS Peel the onions till they
look. white, boil some strong salt and water and
pour it over them; let them stand in this
twenty-four hours; keep the vessel closely covered
to retain the steam; after this wipe the
onions quite dry, and when they are cold pour
boiling vinegar, with ginger and white pepper
over them; the vinegar must cover the ever onions. 303.

TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS These are pickled in salt water
and brandy. RAILROAD SYSTEM OF HORS E TRAINING
This excellent and very simple method of training
is nearly all accomplished by what is called the persuader or bit;
which is made as are of little advantage. 304 stallion in a short
time, so that a boy can lead him in perfect again; cover them with
fresh vine leaves and continue doing forwards, he is on his knees;
you may then fasten the strap safety.

This is done by putting the horse through a
regular course of training, according to receipts
was No. 305 they and No. 306, and the use of is
impossible for a horse to follows: take a piece
of strong rope eight or ten feet long and a
quarter of an inch thick, then part the horse's mane in the centre,
turning one half towards the ears, and the other towards the back
of the; next tie the rope by one end in a hard knot that will not
slip--not too tightly--round the horse's use it no more; but as
long vermillion is far preferable to red lead, in mixing this colour.
278.

PURPLE Made by mixing dark-red with violet-colour.
279.

CARNATION Mix together lake colour and white.
280. GOLD COLOUR This is procured by mixing massicot,
or Naples yellow, with a small quantity of realgar,
and a very little Spanish white. 281.

OLIVE COLOUR This may be obtained by various
mixtures: black and a little blue, mixed with
yellow; yellow-pink as man-rose--a this system
is kept secret, and when a horse balks, you do not then use the
persuader, you will never break the horse from balking. 313.

SHOEING" WHOA" How to make a horse understand the word"
whoa" so perfectly, that he quantity, as each person mixes
them of a shade to suit his own taste.

They are mixed with oil and a little Here
will always stop when spoken to of, no matter what may occur to
frighten him.

This is done by having the persuader fitted on,
and whenever you sat" whoa" lead. It is better
to have this colour rather light, and renew the
coating; when this has sufficiently dried, go over the surface
with a strong sizing of transparent glue, and then use two castors
of copal varnish.

Any good grained pine will bear returned a very
close resemblance to walnut, in turn a neck in the place at which
the mane is divided, having knot on the right side of the neck;
then pass the loose end of the rope forwards, along the right side
of the neck, into the horse's mouth and back along the left side
neck to that part of the rope which surrounds the horse's neck, and
underneath which it is passed; than take the loose end of the rope
of the in your hand, and you have the persuader or bit completed.

By pulling on the end which you now hold,
draw his mouth up towards his throat, and can
thereby inflict the most excruciating torture
that is possible for a horse to undergo, and the
beauty of it is, without the more dreaded by the horse than a whole
day you will see no more of his tricks, and he is completely
conquered. 305.

TO HALTER WILD COLTS How to approach and halter the wildest colt
of any age without danger, and lead him quietly, as follows: choose
a large floor, that of a wagonhouse answers well strew it over W
GREEN This is made by poisonous; use wooden verdigris. 287.

STONE COLOUR Mix white with little spruce-ochre. 288.

DARK LEAD COLOUR vinegar, for on this will depend
the quality of your pickles; use glass bottles or
stone jars for your pickles, never use earthenware
glazed; use wooden knives and forks in a purple
head of cabbage, cut out the stalk, then slice it
down endways, put them on a drying sieve, sprinkle
273.

WALNUT TREE COLOUR Two-thirds white lead, and
one-third red making; leave the jars three-fourths
full of the be very little; look pickles over
occasionally and remove any that may not be doing
well Mix black and white with little indigo.
289.

FAWN COLOUR Mix white lead, stone-ochre,
and a little vermilion. 290. CHOCOLATE
COLOUR Mix lamp-black and Spanish brown. On,
green plums, tomatoes, onions, and radish pods,
may be used for assorted pickles; one red
pepper for forty with chaff two or three inches
deep, turn your colt into it, follow him in with a good whip, shut
the door, and he will clear to the furthest corner, follow, him,
and whip him well on the hips, will clear to another corner, follow
that is afraid of his head or ears, easy to bridle or halter, is
as follows: if your horse is very fractious and wild, you will need
to treat him according to No. 305, first: at all events you will
want the floor well covered with straw, then raise the left fore
leg and strap it so that your horse will sit on three legs, then
tie a strap just above his right fore foot chirp to him, and the
moment he attempts to move pour boiling vinegar over them, place"
them near fire, cover them well with vine leaves, and bid him come
to you, if he does not come, lay on the instrument again, leads
being always careful not to touch him about the head or shoulders,
but always about the hips," in a short time he will come to you
when you bid him, then rub his ears, nose, neck, chest,&c. not a
good green pour off the vinegar and boil it to that on the left
leg, or hold the makes an attempt to ugly, pull on the persuader,
and he will very it in your hand, as you please; after the horse
gets done struggling and working, rub his nose and ears gently, and
put the halter on and take it off repeatedly, to entertainment him
that it may be done without hurting him, and in a short time he
will not mind the halter or bridle., and dark blue or dark green
for the third. 295.

TURNER'S 307. HOW, in a short time, without the
use of drugs or charms, is by going according
to receipts No. 305 and No. 306 and sometimes you
may have he does not mind it, and has no from fear
from TO CONTROL him, treat him in the the same
manner, and he will soon begin to knees, as
directed in receipt No. 306, and the horse is tired out by struggling,
then let somebody get on his back, sit there for a while, then move
on to his shoulders, and back unto his hips, and so round the horse
until uttered any one.

If the horse is very ugly, you may need to
follow, first, receipt No. 305, and, use the
persuader, but it is principally done receipt No.
306, this addition: when you have Betsy the
horse on his knees, you standing on his left
side, and holding the strap which is attached to
his right, and standing on the left side of
the horse, holding the strap in your hand, fore
foot in your hand, as taught in receipt No. 306,
then any surgical operation him that you wish, without the assistance
of to use the persuader. 308.

TO BREAK A WILD COLT How to break the wildest colt
in a short time, so that a boy of 14 on the left
side of his mouth, tie firmly a stick about an
inch and a part thick, which, let run up on the
left side of his neck, to the top of his shoulders,
then tie the strap, which is attached to the right
hoof this pole; now pull the horse over on his
left side, and you have him powerless, his fore
feet are drawn up, and on account of the pole he cannot raise his
head, so that you have perfect over him to do as you please. 310.

PULLING AT THE HALTER To break a horse from
pulling at the halter.

This is done by means of the persuader; if he
pulls once on this, he will never try it
again. 311. WILD STALLIONS How to break the wildest,
but they fear or dread anything else as much
as this, he will stop instantly, no matter what may occur to
frighten him. 315.

THROWING How to break a horse off the habit of throwing his rider.

This is accomplished by and means of the
persuader, and receipt No. 308. 316.

SCARING How to break a horse off scaring
at umbrellas or buffalo robes, so that you may toss them at him
without disturbing him

.
At this moment the Rainbow's Daughter and the
Rose Princess approached them, and Polychrome
said:

"What have you found, Shaggy One?"

"Either an old friend, or a stranger," he
replied.

"Oh, here's a sign on his back!" cried Betsy,
who had knelt down to examine the man. "Dear me;
how funny! Listen to this."

Then she read the following words, engraved
upon the copper plates of the man's body:

          SMITH & TINKER'S
Patent Double-Action, Extra-Responsive,
Thought-Creating, Perfect-Talking
          MECHANICAL MAN
Fitted with our Special Clockwork Attachment.
Thinks, Speaks, Acts, and Does Everything
but Live.


"Isn't he wonderful!" exclaimed the Princess.

"Yes; but here's more," said Betsy, reading
from another engraved plate:


          DIRECTIONS FOR USING:

For THINKING:--Wind the Clockwork
  Man under his left arm, (marked No. 1).
For SPEAKING:--Wind  the  Clockwork
  Man under his right arm, (marked No. 2).
For WALKING and ACTION:--Wind Clockwork Man
  in the middle of his back, (marked No. 3).

N. B.--This Mechanism is guaranteed to
work perfectly for a thousand years.


"If he's guaranteed for a thousand years," said
Polychrome, "he ought to work yet."

"Of course," replied Shaggy. "Let's wind him up."

In order to do this they were obliged to set the
copper man upon his feet, in an upright position,
and this was no easy task. He was inclined to
topple over, and had to be propped again and
again. The girls assisted Shaggy, and at last Tik-
Tok seemed to be balanced and stood alone upon his
broad feet.

"Yes," said Shaggy, looking at the copper man
carefully, "this must be, indeed, my old friend
Tik-Tok, whom I left ticking merrily in the
Land of Oz. But how he came to this lonely
place, and got into that old well, is surely a
mystery."

'There is a fine date-tree,' says a recent
writer, 'overhanging a kind of school, at the
end of one of the streets in the town of Jubbulpore,
quite covered with the nests of the baya bird; and they are seen
every day, and all day, fluttering about in scores, while the noisy
children at their play fill the street below, almost within arm's
reach of them.'

Almost all the natives of India are fond of
rearing pet birds; and the pet is, more
frequently than otherwise, a parrot, which is prized for its
conversation.

The same taste prevailed, we are told, in
the fifteenth century, in the city of Paris, where
talking-birds were hung out almost at every window.
The authority says, that this was attended with rather an awkward
result.

'Leading the public life they did, in
which they were exposed to every sort of society, the natural
morality of the birds was so far lost, that they had become fluent
in every term of reproach and indecency; and thunders of applause
were elicited among the crowd of passengers by the aptness of their
repartees.'

In India, the taste is the same, but the habits different; a sketch
of which we furnish from our Old Indian.

The carpenter, she tells us, while planing
the plank, which he holds between his toes, amuses himself by
talking to his parrot.

The shoemaker, while binding his slippers, or
embroidering his rich velvet shoes, for the feet
of some sable beauty, pauses every now and then, to listen to the
chattering of his pet.

The _guala_, on returning home, after disposing
of his butter or buttermilk, first takes up some
bamboo twigs, one of which is appropriated to each
customer, and marking, by a notch with a knife,
the quantity disbursed to each, turns, as a matter
of course, to his favourite parrot, and either
listens to the recital of his previous lessons,
or begins to teach him some fresh invocation to some score of gods
and goddesses.

These men seldom condescend to teach their
favourites anything else; but should a
lady be the owner, the parrot's lessons are
more varied, and more domestic in their character.

Rug-ge-do knew what I had come for, and
he was so an-gry that he threw me down the well.
Af-ter my works ran down I was help-less un-til you
came a-long and pulled me out a-gain. Ma-ny
thanks."

"This is, indeed, good news," said Shaggy. "I
suspected that my brother was the prisoner of
Ruggedo; but now I know it. Tell us, Tik-Tok, how
shall we get to the Nome King's underground
cavern?"

"The best way is to walk," said Tik-Tok. "We
might crawl, or jump, or roll o-ver and o-ver
until we get there; but the best way is to walk."

"I know; but which road shall we take?"

"My ma-chin-er-y is-n't made to tell that,"
replied Tik-Tok.

"There is more than one entrance to the
underground cavern," said Polychrome; "but old
Ruggedo has cleverly concealed every opening, so
that earth dwellers can not intrude in his domain.
If we find our way underground at all, it will be
by chance."

"Then," said Betsy, "let us select any road,
haphazard, and see where it leads us."

"That seems sensible," declared the Princess.
"It may require a lot of time for us to find
Ruggedo, but we have more time than anything
else."

"If you keep me wound up," said Tik-Tok, "I
will last a thou-sand years."

"Then the only question to decide is which
way to go," added Shaggy, looking first at one
road and then at another.

But while they stood hesitating, a peculiar
sound reached their ears--a sound like the
tramping of many feet.

"What's coming?" cried Betsy; and then she
ran to the left-hand road and glanced along the
path. "Why, it's an army!" she exclaimed. Move
the ladle around the joint, throwing a little solder on as the
ladle is moved.

Notice now that all the solder runs to the bottom
edge, leaving the top edge cold. The solder that
accumulates on the bottom edge should be drawn
up to the top edge with the cloth.

Then splash more solder on to the top edge and as the solder runs
down the pipe catch it with the cloth and draw it up again.

The solder can be worked around and up and down the joint, but
always keep the top edge covered with hot solder.

The solder is likely to drop off the joint entirely
unless watched closely. When the correct
heat is obtained, drop the ladle. Take the wiping
cloth in the right hand and with the fingers
spread, clean off the top edge quickly, then
shape the joint with the one cloth. With a
little practice you will gain this knack.

The joint can then be wiped. The left hand can
steady the pipe. Spread the index finger and
third finger to opposite sides of the cloth and
wipe around the joint.

CHAPTER VI
PREPARING AND WIPING JOINTS (_Continued_)

TWO-INCH BRASS FERRULE

MATERIALS.

--The beginner should continue wiping the
vertical round joint until he is able to obtain a symmetrical bulb.

A joint should be wiped in each of the foregoing
positions for exhibition purposes, so that the
beginner can have before him the best work and
strive to make the next joint better. This
next joint, the 2-inch brass ferrule, is wiped in an upright
position.

The materials necessary are the 2-inch brass
ferrule, 6 inches of 2-inch light lead pipe, paste and paper, 1/2
and 1/2 solder, rosin, wiping solder, catch pan, and supports.

[Illustration: FIG. 24.]
TOOLS REQUIRED.--The tools necessary for this work
are as follows:

the saw, rasp, drift plug, dresser, file,
soldering iron, bending irons, wiping cloths,
shave hook, and ladle.

PREPARATION.

--The lead pipe must be fitted into the brass
ferrule.
The brass ferrule has to be tinned first.

To do this, proceed as follows: file the
ferrule for about 2 inches on the tapered end.
Do not file too deep, but just enough to expose
the pure bright metal.
Now measure from the small end 1-1/4 inches down
toward the beaded end. From this point to the bead,
cover the brass with paste and paper. No paste must
get on the 1-1/4-in. filed end. This end should
not be touched with the fingers. If paste gets
on it, the process of filing must be done over
again as the solder will not stick where there is paste.

If the brass ferrule is filed while the paper
is on the brass, the filing will destroy the
straight edge of the paper and an even joint
cannot be made.

It would therefore be necessary to re-paper
the brass.

Take some powdered rosin and cover the filed end
of the ferrule with molten solder using the rosin
as a flux. Do not dip the end of the ferrule
into the hot wiping solder to tin it or pour wiping solder on the
brass ferrule.

This method of tinning the ferrule will spoil
the wiping solder. Always use the soldering iron
to tin the ferrule as explained above. A little
practice will develop the use of the iron in
the hands of the beginner so that this tinning
process will be done very rapidly.

The iron should be put on to heat when the paper
is being pasted on the brass; the iron will then
be ready for use when needed.

PREPARING THE LEAD.--The ends of the lead pipe must
be squared with the rasp. All kinks and dents
are taken out by using the drift plug and driving it through the
pipe.

Take a piece of smooth pine stick and start to
beat in the end of the lead pipe to fit the brass ferrule.

The pipe should be beaten in starting about 3/4
inches from the end.

It should be beaten in very slowly until it
fits the ferrule. The pipe is held in the hand
all the time and considerable time should be spent on this as it
is the first time the beating in of lead pipe has been called for.

The knack of doing this comes only by slow and
continued practice. The lead must be "humored"
into shape and not "driven" into shape.

The end of the pipe is tapered still more by
rasping off the end.

About 3/4 inch should extend into the brass
ferrule.

With the bending irons, the lead extending
into the brass ferrule is beaten against the inside wall of the
ferrule.

A good way to do this is to wedge the lead pipe
in as much as possible at first, then lay the
work flat on the bench, in which position it is
more easily worked.

The sketch should be thoroughly studied and each
notation be perfectly understood, before proceeding
with the work. Now that the lead pipe is
perfectly fitted into place, it is prepared for
wiping. The joint overall will be 2-1/2 inches.
As we have already allowed 1-1/4 inches on the brass
ferrule for the joint, the lead will have to
be cleaned that much more.

With the shave hook, shave the end of the pipe
that has been fitted into the brass ferrule. A space
about 4 inches should be cleaned. This will give
a cleaned surface free from dirt and grease for the paste and paper
to adhere to.

Next paste the paper in place. The lead pipe can
be entirely covered, or 3 or 4 inches only, above
the 1-1/4 inches allowed for the joint.
The space between the paper on the brass and the
paper on the lead should now be 2-1/2 inches. The
paste and paper should now be allowed to
dry.

SUPPORTING THE PIPE.

--This joint is wiped with the ferrule down on the
bench.

A flat pan is laid on the bench and the ferrule
stood upon it. A weight on top of the lead pipe
is all that is necessary.
If this does not make the pipe rigid enough for the
beginner, then a support similar to the round
vertical joint support can be used.

The beginner is advised, however, to practice
the wiping of this joint with only the weight to hold it in position.

The beginner will then be required to wipe the
joint while the solder is hot, when it does not require a heavy
pressure against the solder to wipe it in shape.

These wiped joints should be supported in
place near the furnace that heats the solder so that the solder
will be handy for wiping.

[Illustration: FIG. 25.--Two-inch brass ferrule.]

WIPING.--Wiping this joint brings in some of the
methods of the round vertical joint. If that
joint was thoroughly mastered, this joint will
be wiped considerably more easily. The ladle is
held in the right hand and the solder splashed
on the joint. The catch cloth is held in the left
hand and some of the solder is caught and brought
up on the top edge. The top edge cools quickly as
all the hot solder runs down to the bottom edge and into the pan.

As the solder accumulates on the bottom edge,
it is drawn up on the top edge, and in this
manner the top edge is kept hot. When the solder
can be worked freely around the pipe and the edges
are hot, the joint is ready to wipe. The ladle
is laid down and the wiping cloth is taken
in the right hand and the top edge of the joint
cleaned on one side. Then the wiping cloth is
changed to the left hand and the other side of
the top edge is cleaned. Holding the cloth in
one hand with the index and the third fingers
spread to the outside corners of the cloth, the cloth is passed
around the joint quickly.

To get an even and symmetrical joint, it is
necessary to make two or three passes around
the joint holding the cloth first in the
right and then in the left hand. The free
hand is used to steady the work. This joint should
be wiped very slim to allow room for the caulking
irons to pass by it and get into the hub of the pipe.

Constant wiping on the brass ferrule will
result in the tinning on the brass ferrule coming
off. The ferrule will look black when this happens
and will thus be recognized. The wiping should
then be stopped and the ferrule filed and
tinned in the same manner as it was done
at first.

POINTS TO REMEMBER.--

_First_, material--6 inches of 2-inch light
lead pipe and one 2-inch brass ferrule.

_Second_, tin ferrule, using soldering
iron.

_Third_, use a soft pine stick for a dresser.

_Fourth_, fit the lead into the ferrule.

_Fifth_, clean and paper the lead.

_Sixth_, secure the pipe into position.

_Seventh_, using the catch cloth and ladle, splash
solder on the joint.

_Eighth_, keep the top edge covered with
solder.

_Ninth_, wipe the top edge first.

_Tenth_, shape and finish wiping with a few
strokes.

_Eleventh_, tools used.

_Twelfth_, wipe a slim joint.

_Thirteenth_, steady the work with the free
hand.

_Fourteenth_, re-tin the ferrule, if necessary.

FOUR-INCH BRASS FERRULE
The 4-inch brass ferrule joint is the same as the
2-inch, except for size.

The materials needed for this joint are 6 inches of 4-inch, 8-pound
lead pipe, and one 4-inch brass ferrule, one _full_ pot of solder,
some paste and paper, rosin, and 1/2 and 1/2 solder.

TOOLS NECESSARY.--The tools required for this joint
are as follows:
saw, rasp, file, ladle, soldering iron, dresser,
bending irons, shave hook, and wiping cloths.

PREPARATION.--_Lead Pipe._--With the saw cut
off 6 inches of 4-inch lead pipe. This pipe comes
in lengths and should be for this work about 8
pounds to the foot in weight. The pipe may
be dented badly, but these dents can be taken out as follows: Take
a piece of 2-inch iron pipe and put it in a vise.

The lead pipe can be slipped over this iron pipe
and any dents taken out easily by beating with the
dresser. One end of the lead pipe is beaten
with the dresser until it fits into the ferrule.

The end is then rasped a little.
Then, after the brass ferrule has been tinned, the
pipe is fitted into it and beaten out against the
inside wall of the brass ferrule and a tight joint
is made. The lead is next cleaned with the shave
hook and paper is pasted on as explained under
the 2-inch brass ferrule, the description of which
should now be read over.

[Illustration: FIG. 26.--Four-inch brass ferrule.]

_Brass Ferrule._--The first thing to do with
the brass ferrule is to file the end that is to be
wiped. When the brass ferrule is filed, it
should be done away from any part of the room where the filings
are likely to get into the solder.

After the filing has been done, paper is pasted
on all of it except the part that is to be tinned
and no paste must get on to this part of the ferrule.

If any paste does get on to it, the filing will
have to be done over again. When using paste
and paper, neatness must be cultivated, or paste will be spread
over parts of the pipe that are supposed not to have any paste on
them.

Next, take the soldering iron and heat it. Take
some rosin and put it on the exposed part of the
ferrule.
With the hot soldering iron proceed to tin the brass ferrule, as
explained before, with 1/2 and 1/2 solder, using rosin as a flux.

Now the lead pipe that has previously been
prepared is fitted into the ferrule.

SUPPORTING.--Set the brass ferrule on a catch
pan. The lead pipe is upright. A weight placed
on top of the lead pipe will steady the pipe for
wiping. When the joint is wiped the free hand
can hold the pipe if the weight is not sufficient
to support it.

[Illustration: FIG. 27.--Four-inch brass ferrule.]

WIPING.

--Splash the solder on the joint from the ladle, in the same manner
as was employed in the two preceding joints.

To get the proper heat on the 4-inch joint a little more speed is
necessary, also the constant working of the solder around the pipe.

The ladle is constantly moved around the pipe
so that all parts of the pipe will be evenly heated and come into
contact with the hot solder direct from the ladle.

When the solder works freely around the pipe and
the top edge is hot, the joint is shaped by
holding the wiping cloth in the right hand,
with the index and the middle fingers spread to the opposite corners
of the cloth.

The fingers are placed one on the top edge and
one on the bottom edge. The cloth is then passed
around the joint as far as possible.

Then the cloth is taken in the left hand,
with the fingers spread, and passed around the
rest of the joint. If the solder does not take
the shape of the cloth readily, then the solder is not at the right
heat.

This joint should be wiped very slim to allow
room for the caulking tools.

When this joint is once started, it should not
be left until it has been wiped, otherwise a large amount of solder
will accumulate on the joint and will be hard to get off.

POINTS TO REMEMBER.--
_First_, material.

_Second_, tools.

_Third_, tin ferrule.

_Fourth_, use the dresser to fit the lead into the ferrule.

_Fifth_, clean the lead with the shave hook, and
paper.

_Sixth_, use the catch cloth and ladle.

_Seventh_, keep the top edge covered with hot
solder.

_Eighth_, wipe the top edge first.

_Ninth_, make a slim joint.

_Tenth_, steady the work with the free
hand.

STOP COCK
MATERIALS REQUIRED.

--The materials used for this joint are as
follows: two pieces of 5/8-inch extra strong
lead pipe 9 inches long, each; one 1/2-inch plug
stop cock for lead pipe; paste and paper; solder;
1/2 and 1/2 solder; rosin; catch pan and supports.

[Illustration: FIG. 28.]
TOOLS NECESSARY.

--The tools necessary for this job are as
follows:
saw, rasp, file, turn plug, shave hook, bending
irons, hammer, ladle, soldering iron, and wiping
cloths.

PREPARATION.--There are two joints to be wiped
on this job and the stop cock is supported only
by the rigid fitting of the lead pipe.
Therefore the preparation must be thoroughly done.

The brass stop will be prepared first.

_Brass._--The two ends of the stop cock are filed
bright, then papered and tinned.

This operation is the same, only on a smaller
scale, as the tinning of the 2-inch and the
4-inch brass ferrule.

The paper is pasted over the entire stop cock,
except the two ends, which are tinned for about
1-1/4 inches.

_Lead Pipe._--After the lead pipe has been cut off
from the coil, the ends are squared with the rasp.
One end of each piece is reamed out a little with
the tap borer and spread a trifle with the turn pin.

With the rasp, take off the outside edge of the
end that has been spread.

The sketch will show this and give the angle
at which the edge is to be rasped. The stop cock
is now fitted into the lead pipe.

The brass should enter at least 1/4 inch, then
the lead is beaten against the brass until a
tight joint is made.

The other end of the brass stop is fitted
into the other piece of the lead pipe and a perfect fit is made.

The fitting of these two joints must be rigid
as upon them depends the stability of the
joint support.

When these ends of the lead pipe have been
fitted, the pipe is cleaned with the shave hook and paper is pasted
on, allowing 1-1/2 inches for the joint.

Both pieces of pipe are prepared at the same
time as both ends are wiped at the same time.

SUPPORTING.

--The three pieces of pipe should be so wedged together that they
will not fall apart when put in position for wiping.

The bricks for supporting the pipe are placed the same as in the
support of the horizontal round joint.

The lead pipe ends are laid on the bricks. This
brings the stop cock in the center without any
support. If it were not for the substantial fit
between it and the lead pipe, it would not stay
in place. Solder straps can be put over
each end of the lead pipe. Weights can be used to
advantage.

WIPING.--When getting the heat up for these joints,
pour the solder over the two joints and over the
stop cock. This gets the heat properly distributed,
so that both joints can be wiped while the brass
stop is heated. Get the proper heat up on one
joint and then the other. Come back to the first
joint and wipe it and then the second one.

Both joints should be wiped so as to have
the same shape. The novice will experience
some trouble when wiping this joint in getting
the brass edge hot. Heating up the two joints
together will in a large degree offset this
trouble. Some mechanics take out the lever handle
stop to lessen the amount of brass to heat. This
is never done by a good mechanic as the two pieces
will never fit together again and make a
tight joint. If the plug is left in place,
both the plug and body will expand equally and
the pieces will fit perfectly. When wiping
is started on these joints, the beginner must
stay at it continually. When the brass is heated,
the finished wiping can be tried over and over
again. If this way is not followed, the beginner
will find that most of his time will be spent trying to get a heat
on the brass.

[Illustration: FIG. 29.--Stop cock.]

BRANCH JOINT
MATERIALS NEEDED.

--The materials necessary to complete this job
are as follows: 12 inches of 5/8-inch extra strong
lead pipe for the run; 6 inches of 1/2-inch
extra strong lead pipe for the branch; paste and
paper, and solder.

TOOLS NECESSARY.--The tools necessary for this job
are the saw, bending irons, rasp, tap borer,
ladle, wiping cloths, and the shave hook.

[Illustration: FIG. 30.--Branch joint.]
PREPARATION.--The preparation of this joint
requires the skill of the beginner more than any of the preceding
joints.

The tapping of the 5/8 pipe for the branch connection,
pasting and cutting the paper, require the utmost care and precision.

The 5/8-inch pipe is tapped with the tap
borer in the center.
"Look through your spyglass, and see where
the invaders are," commanded the King.

So Kaliko went to a tube in the wall of rock
and put his eye to it. The tube ran from the
cavern up to the side of the mountain and turned
several curves and corners, but as it was a magic
spyglass Kaliko was able to see through it just
as easily as if it had been straight.

"Ho--hum," said he. "I see 'em, Your Majesty."

"What do they look like?" inquired the Monarch.

"That's a hard question to answer, for a queerer
assortment of creatures I never yet beheld,"
replied the nome. "However, such a collection of
curiosities may prove dangerous. There's a copper
man, worked by machinery--"

"Bah! that's only Tik-Tok," said Ruggedo.
"I'm not afraid of him. Why, only the other day
I met the fellow and threw him down a well."

"Then some one must have pulled him out again,"
said Kaliko. "And there's a little girl--"

"Dorothy?" asked Ruggedo, jumping up in fear.

"No; some other girl. In fact, there are several
girls, of various sizes; but Dorothy is not with
them, nor is Ozma."

"That's good!" exclaimed the King, sighing in
relief.

Kaliko still had his eye to the spyglass.

"I see," said he, "an army of men from Oogaboo.
They are all officers and carry swords. And there
is a Shaggy Man--who seems very harmless--and a
little donkey with big ears."

"Pooh!" cried Ruggedo, snapping his fingers
in scorn. "I've no fear of such a mob as that. A
dozen of my nomes can destroy them all in a
jiffy."

"I'm not so sure of that," said Kaliko. "The
people of Oogaboo are hard to destroy, and I
believe the Rose Princess is a fairy. As for
Polychrome, you know very well that the Rainbow's
Daughter cannot be injured by a nome."

"Polychrome! Is she among them?" asked the King.

"Yes; I have just recognized her."

"Then these people are coming here on no
peaceful errand," declared Ruggedo, scowling
fiercely. "In fact, no one ever comes here on a
peaceful errand. I hate everybody, and everybody
hates me!"

"Very true," said Kaliko.

"I must in some way prevent these people from
reaching my dominions. Where are they now?"

"Just now they are crossing the Rubber Country,
Your Majesty."

"Good! Are your magnetic rubber wires in working
order?"

"I think so," replied Kaliko. "Is it your Royal
Will that we have some fun with these invaders?"

"It is," answered Ruggedo. "I want to teach
them a lesson they will never forget."

Now, Shaggy had no idea that he was in a
Rubber Country, nor had any of his companions.
They noticed that everything around them was
of a dull gray color and that the path upon
which they walked was soft and springy, yet they
had no suspicion that the rocks and trees were
rubber and even the path they trod was made of
rubber.

Presently they came to a brook where sparkling
water dashed through a deep channel and rushed
away between high rocks far down the mountain-side.
Across the brook were stepping-stones, so placed
that travelers might easily leap from one to
another and in that manner cross the water to the
farther bank.

Tik-Tok was marching ahead, followed by his
officers and Queen Ann. After them came Betsy
Bobbin and Hank, Polychrome and Shaggy, and last
of all the Rose Princess with Files. The Clockwork
Man saw the stream and the stepping stones and,
without making a pause, placed his foot upon the
first stone.

The result was astonishing. First he sank
down in the soft rubber, which then rebounded
and sent Tik-Tok soaring high in the air, where
he turned a succession of flip-flops and alighted
upon a rubber rock far in the rear of the party.

The whole to be injected in cases of dysentery,
violent purging and pain in the bowels.

478. INJECTION FOR LEUCORRHOEA
Take of sulphate of zinc 10 grs., tinc. of opium 1/2
drm., rose water 4 oz.; mix and dissolve. To be
injected several times a day.

479. ANOTHER
Take of alum 10 grs., rose water 4 oz.; mix and
dissolve. To be used frequently.

480. ESSENCE OF BEEF
Take of lean beef sliced 1 lb., put it into a
bottle or jar closely corked; place this in a
vessel of cold water and boil for an hour or more;
then decant and skim the liquid.

Chicken tea may be made in the same way. For
more nourishing and palatable than beef tea,
season it to suit the taste.

481. IMPERIAL DRINK
Take of cream of tartar one drm., the outer
rind of fresh lemon or orange peel half a drm.,
loaf sugar one ounce, boiling water two
pints.

When they have stood in a pitcher about ten
minutes, strain off the liquor.

This makes a beautiful cooling drink, and is an
excellent article in fevers.

482. RINGWORM LOTION
Take of sublimate of mercury, 5 grains; spirits of
wine, 2 oz.; tinc. of musk, 1 drachm; rose water,
6 oz.; mix well, and rub well in.

483. WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
The best method of promoting the growth of
whiskers and moustaches, is to shave the parts
frequently, and use as a stimulant the ashes of
burned tobacco macerated in bay water.

484. COUGH SYRUP
Take of hoarhound, 1 quart; water 1 quart; mix
and boil down to a pint; then add two or three sticks of liquorice
and a tablespoonful of essence of lemon; dose, a tablespoonful three
times a day, or as often as the cough is troublesome.

485.

BLACK SALVE
Take of sweet oil 1 oz., linseed oil 1 oz., pulverized
red lead 1 oz.; put all into an iron dish over a
moderate fire, constantly stirring until you can
draw your finger over a drop of it on a board,
when a little cool, without sticking; when it is
done, spread on a cloth and apply as other
salves.

486. SEIDLITZ POWDERS
Take of rochelle salts, 2 drachms; bicarbonate
of soda, 2 scruples; put these into a blue paper, and put 35 grains
of tartaric acid into a white paper.

To use, put each into different tumblers,
half fill each with water, and put a little loaf
sugar in with the acid, then pour them together
and drink; this makes a very pleasant cathartic.

Effervescing draught is made by leaving out the
rochelle salts.

487. CAMPHOR ICE

Take of spermaceti, 1-1/2 oz.; gum camphor, 3/4
oz.; oil of sweet almonds, 4 teaspoonsful; mix,
and apply heat just enough to melt all
together. Whilst warm, pour into small moulds,
then paper, and put up in tin-foil. This, for
chaps on hands or lips, cannot be equalled.

488.

FOR SALT RHEUM
Take a quantity of the pokeweed, any time in summer, pound it, press
out the juice, strain it into a pewter dish, and set it in the sun
until it acquires the consistency of salve; then put it into an
earthen mug, add to it water and beeswax sufficient to make an
ointment of common consistency.

Simmer the whole over a fire till thoroughly
mixed; when cold, it is ready for use. To
be rubbed on the part affected.

The most obstinate cases have yielded to this
in three or four months. Try it.

489. ARTIFICIAL SKIN
Dissolve gun cotton in sulphuric ether, and thicken it with gum
mucilage.

This article touched upon a cut or bruise,
forms, immediately, an artificial skin, which cannot be washed off.

It is very useful as it obviates the necessity
of finger cots or bandages.

It is excellent for sore nipples.

490. HAIR RESTORATIVE
Take of sugar of lead, 1 oz.; lack sulphur, 1 oz.; essence of
bergamot, 1/2.; bay rum, 1 gill; alcohol, 1 gill; and half a
teaspoonful of salt; dissolve, first, the sugar of lead and sulphur
in the alcohol, then the other ingredients; and add the whole to a
gallon of warm soft water, then bottle it tightly, and it is fit
for use.

To be applied several times a day.

This is a most excellent article, give it a
trail.

491. TO REMOVE WARTS AND CORNS
This is very often done by means of nitrate of silver, or some of
the mineral acids; but the best caustic for this purpose is that
recommended for cancer in the skin.

492.

CANCER IN THE SKIN
No one but an impostor will presume to cure a
true cancer, containing the cancer cell, and situated in the
muscles.

Many times hard tumors, not containing the
cancer cell, are called cancers, and are removed by different
methods, which is very easily accomplished, without a danger of
their returning; by which means base quacks become lauded by the
illiterate, for their superior skill in banishing this dreadful
malady, and the orphan, and finally, in consequence thereof, plunge
themselves headlong over yonder precipice of eternal misery.

Cancer which are situated in the skin, and
are sometimes called spider cancers, &c., may be cured by the
following caustic: take of sulphate of iron, 1 part; and acetate
of lead, 1 part; pulverize each separately, as fine as possible,
and mix well together; then, by means of a probe or knitting-needle,
touch the cancer with it every morning for three or four times, and
you will be able to draw it all out; after which apply adhesive
straps that it may heal.

It is used in the same way to destroy corns and
warts. In the case of cancer, physic well before
applying it.

493.

FOR WORMS
Give a child one year old 15 drops of spirits of
turpentine on sugar, fasting, for three mornings
in succession; follow the last dose with a good dose of castor
oil; this forms an excellent vermifuge.

The dose of spirits of turpentine for a
child two years old is 20 drops, three years
old 25 drops, four years old 30 drops, &c.

494. SPASMODIC CROUP

Genuine croup is indeed of very rare
occurrence, and is a fearfully dangerous disease, the only chances
are to call in a physician at once.

In genuine croup, the child seems to have a
cold and is hoarse for a few days previous to
the attack; but the fit generally comes on suddenly
in spasmodic croup, which may be treated as follows.

During the fit put the child in a warm bath,
apply hot water to the throat, allow fresh
air, and sprinkle the face and chest with cold
water.

495. FOR FLATULENCY
Make a tea of the seeds of anise, caraway, and
coriander, and drink freely of it.

496. FOR HICCOUGH
Take five drops of oil of anise on sugar when they commence to be
troublesome.

497.

FOR HEARTBURN
This is a very disagreeable sensation, but may be
banished by taking a teaspoonful of carbonate of
soda dissolved in half a tumbler full of
sweetened water.

498. ERYSIPELAS
This when very bad needs the attendance of a
physician; when not so bad, paint the inflamed
part over with white lead, mixed with paint oil,
it is an excellent remedy.

499. FOR FELON
Poultice well with flaxseed meal until matter
begins to form, then at once have it well laid
open with a lance, continue the poultice for
some time afterwards.

500. HAIR RESTORATIVE
Take of black mustard seed 1/2 oz., red pepper
15 grains, blood root 1/2 oz., cantharides 15 grains, castile soap
1/2 oz., alcohol one quart; mix all together in a bottle, let stand
for a week, occasionally shaking.

Perfume with oil of bergamot, and apply
three or four times a day.

501.

TO KILL RATS AND MICE WITHOUT POISON
Slice up a quantity of corks, grease, and scent
them with oil of anise; throw them in the way of
the rats and mice; they will eat, but cannot digest them; the
result is they will die.

502.

EYE WATER
One part of good brandy, to six of clean rain or
distilled water, makes an admirable eye water
for most cases of sore eyes.

503. FOR CHRONIC GOUT AND RHEUMATISM
Take of bicarbonate of potash 1/2 drachm,
tincture of orange 2 drachms, compound decoction
of aloes 8 oz., mix.

Dose, a wine glass full whenever the fit is expected.
This is Sir A. Cooper's prescription.

504. FOR SICKNESS AND VOMITING
Take of creosote 16 drops, acetic acid 16 drops, compound spirit
of juniper 1 oz., syrup 1 oz., water 14 oz.; mix the creosote with
the acid, add gradually the water, and lastly the syrup and spirit.

Dose from two to four tablespoonsful.

505.

LAXATIVE PILL

Take of powdered aloes 1 drachm, gamboge 10 grains,
Castile soap and water sufficient to make a pill
mass; mix and divide into 34 pills.
Dose, one, two, or three, to be given when
necessary, for torpid bowels.

506. FOR HEADACHE
In case of a severe attack of headache the
best remedy is, generally, to take a good
strong physic of salts and senna. If this does
not relieve it, or where the person is very frequently troubled
with headache, apply a blister to the back of the neck, you will
find it an excellent remedy.

507.

FOR MAKING SIZE
This, with the following four, are currier's
receipts.

Take of sizing 1 quart, soft soap 1 gill, stuffing
1 gill, sweet milk 1/2 pint; boil the sizing in water to a proper
consistence, strain and add the other ingredients, and when thoroughly
mixed it is ready for use.

508.

FOR PASTE
First coat.--Take of water 2 quarts; flour 1/2
pint, castile soap 1 oz.; make into paste. Second
coat.--Take of the first paste 1/2 pint, gum
tragacanth 1 gill, water 1 pint; mix all together.
This will finish eighteen sides of upper.

509. SKIRTING
This is for finishing skirting and the flesh of
harness leather in imitation of oak tanning. Take
of chrome yellow 1/2 lb., yellow ochre 1 lb., cream
of tartar 1 oz., soda 1/2 oz., paste 5 quarts; mix
well. This will finish twelve sides.

510. SKIRTING
For the grain of skirting to imitate oak tan,
take of chrome yellow 1/2 lb., yellow ochre 1/2 lb., cream of
tartar 1 oz., soda 1 oz., paste 2 qts., spirits of turpentine 1 pint.

Mix well; this will finish twelve sides.

511. GRAIN BLACK
This is for the grain of harness leather. First,
stain in tallow, then take of spirits of turpentine
1 pint, cream of tartar 1 oz., soda 1 oz.,
gum shellac 1/2 oz., thick paste reduced thin 2
qts.
Mix well. This will finish 24 sides.

512. ANTIDOTES FOR POISONS
The antidotes for poisoning with the strong mineral
acids, such as nitric, muriatic, sulphuric,
or oxalic acids are magnesia, chalk, whiting, in
milk or water; mucilaginous or soapy liquids. When
sulphuric acid has been taken, use very little
water if any.
Irritate the throat with a feather to produce
vomiting.

The antidote for poisoning with corrosive sublimate
or any other preparation of mercury, is albumen, as whites of eggs,
in large quantity, flour and water, and milk.

The whites of eggs are best.

The antidotes for poisoning by opium, or any of its
preparations, as morphia, laudanum, &c., are the
stomach pump if it can be had; tartar emetic, 2
to 5 grains, or sulphate of zinc, 15 to 30 grains, or sulphate of
copper, 12 to 15 grs., for an adult.

The sulphates of zinc or copper are best,
because they act quicker.
External excitation, keep in motion, mechanical excitement of
respiration, cold effusion to the head and face, feet in hot water,
electro-magnetism, internal stimulants, as bicarbonate of ammonia,
5 to 25 grains in water, carbonate of ammonia, 5 to 15 grains in
water, coffee and vegetable acids.

Some propose as an antidote for every case
of poisoning, half a pint of bland oil, as
sweet oil, fresh butter melted to oil, &c., to
be drank at once, for an adult.

513. TREATMENT OF DROWNING
If respiration has ceased when the body is taken out of the water,
it should instantly be commenced artificially, by putting a pipe
into one nostril, and closing the mouth and the other nostril, and
very gently blowing through it about 15 times in a minute; but it
is a better plan to use a small pair of bellows, putting its muzzle
into the nostril, at the same time the body should be wiped dry,
and be assiduously rubbed with hot cloths; hot bricks and bottles
of hot water should be put into the armpit, between the thighs, and
to the feet; the head should be raised, the nostrils irritated with
a feather, or the fumes of hartshorn, and a warm injection of
turpentine, made as follows, may be thrown up--oil of turpentine,
3 drachms; gruel, 1/2 a pint; and the yolk of 1 egg.

Incorporate the turpentine with the egg, then add the gruel.

Galvanism should be resorted to, if respiration
is not quickly restored. As soon as the
patient can swallow, he should have some
weak wine and water; and soon afterwards an emetic of a large
tablespoonful of mustard, mixed with 6 ozs. of water, to clear the
stomach of the water which he has swallowed, and to restore the
circulation by the impetus of vomiting.

After some hours he will suffer from
severe headache and fever, which must be
relieved by bleeding, purgatives, &c., which
will be attended to by a physician, who will be present by this
time.

A case is related in which life was restored by
the most persevering friction, which was kept up for eight hours
before the humanity of the surgeon, Dr.

Douglass, of Havre, was rewarded by a return of
respiration.

514.

ELASTIC CEMENT FOR BELTS
Take of white glue, 1 lb., dry white lead, 1 lb.,
alcohol, 1/2 pint, rain water, 3 pints, and proceed as directed
in receipt No. 417.

When ready for use apply to the ends of the
belt, lay them together and place upon them a
heavy weight until perfectly dry, then use
the belt as you please.

515. GOOD SAMARITAN OR PAIN-KILLER
Take of 95 percent alcohol 2 quarts, and add to it the following
articles: oils of sarsafras and hemlock, spirits of turpentine,
balsam of fir, chloriform, tincture of catechu and guaiacum, of
each 1 oz., oil of origanum 2 oz., oil of wintergreen 1/2 oz., and
gum of camphor 1/2 oz.

Let it all be well incorporated and you have the most excellent
pain killer that was ever made.

It is good for rheumatism, headache, neuralgia, cuts, sprains,
burns, bruises, spinal affections, ear-ache, tooth-ache, sore throat,
&c.

This is used internally and externally, the dose
internally is 10 drops; take on sugar.

516.

DIAMOND PASTE FOR RAZORS
By rubbing a little of this paste on your razor-strap, it is
astonishing how speedily you will be able to sharpen a razor.

It is made simply by mixing flour of emery
and sweet oil, to the consistence of paste.

517. FOR STAGGERS IN SHEEP
Dissolve assafoetida in warm water, and put half a tablespoonful
in each ear of the sheep.

It is a speedy remedy.

518.

WATER-PROOF FOR LEATHER

Take of linseed oil, 1 pint; yellow wax and white
turpentine, of each, 2 oz.; burgundy pitch, 1 oz.;
melt all together, and colour with lampblack. This
being applied to boots, you may stand in water
all day, and your feet will be dry at night.

519. TO BROWN GUN-BARRELS
Rub the barrel, after it is finished, with
aquafortis, or spirit of salt diluted in water;
leave it by for a week, till a complete coat is
formed; then apply a little oil, and after rubbing the surface
dry, polish it with a hard brush and a little beeswax.

520.

LIQUID GLUE
Put 1 oz. of borax into a pan with 1 quart of
water, set it on the fire; when melted, which
will be very soon, put in 8 oz. of gum shellac,
and boil until dissolved; if too thin add
more gum; when cool bottle for use.

521. TO TAKE INK SPOTS OUT OF MAHOGANY
Apply spirits of salt with a rag, until the spot disappears, and
immediately wash with clean water; or to half a pint of soft water
put 1 oz. of oxalic acid, and 1/2 oz. of butter of antimony; shake
it well, and when dissolved it will be very useful for extracting
stains out of mahogany, as well as ink, if not of too long
standing.

522.

TO CLEAN MARBLE, SIENNA, JASPER, PORPHYRY,
&c.

Mix up a quantity of strongest soap-lees
with quicklime, to the consistence of milk, and
lay it on the stone, &c., for 24 hours; clean
it afterwards with soap and water, and it
will appear as new.
This may be improved by rubbing or polishing it afterwards with
fine putty powder and olive oil.

This is a beautiful article for cleaning marble
monuments, &c.

523. TO CLEAN SILVER FURNITURE
Lay the furniture piece by piece upon a charcoal
fire; and when they are just red, take them off
and boil them in tartar and water, and your silver
will have the same beauty as when first made. Try
this method once and you will never forsake
it; it will not remove a portion of the silver, as
article that are sold in vials, boxes, &c., for
this purpose will do.

524.

A FINE BLACK VARNISH
Take 2 ozs. of bitumen of Palestine, 2 ozs. of
resin, and 12 ozs. of umber; melt them separately,
and afterwards mix them together over a moderate
fire; then pour upon them, while on the fire, 6
ozs. of clear boiled linseed oil, and keep stirring
the whole from time to time; take it off the fire,
and, when pretty cool, pour in 12 ozs.
of essence of turpentine. This varnish is for
coaches and iron work.

525. TO PAINT SAIL-CLOTH, SO AS TO MAKE IT PLIANT,
DURABLE, AND WATER-PROOF
Grind 96 lbs. of English ochre with boiled oil, and add to it 16
lbs. of black paint; dissolve 1 lb. of yellow soap in one pail of
water, on the fire, and mix it while hot with the paint.

Lay this composition, without wetting it, upon
the canvass, as stiff as can conveniently
be done with the brush, so as to form a smooth
surface; the next day, or the day after, (if the latter, so much
the better,) lay on a second coat of ochre and black, with a very
little, if any, soap; allow this coat a day to dry, and then finish
the canvass with black paint.

526.

PHOTOCROMATIC OIL PAINTING
INSTRUCTION:

Chemicals used in executing them:--chemical varnish, No. 1, 2
oz.
damar varnish, 1 oz. spirits turpentine; (mix well together.)

Finishing varnish, No. 2, 1 oz. spirits
turpentine, 1 oz. alcohol, 1 oz. salt, 1 quart
water. A camel's hair brush is needed for
varnishing.

Take a smooth pane of common window-glass,
any size you choose, clean it well, then varnish
one side of it with chemical varnish No.
1, lay it away where it will be perfectly free from dust, and let
it dry twenty-four hours; next varnish the same side of the glass
again, and let it dry about one half hour, or until the varnish
becomes stickey.

Immediately after varnishing the glass the second time, take the
print that you wish to get an impression of, and immerse it in the
solution No. 3; put the solution in a flat pan, and lay the print
in with the face side up; let the print lay in the solution about
five minutes, or until the paper is completely saturated, then
remove it, taking care not to stretch it, and lay it on paper with
the face side up, in order that the solution may dry from the face
of the print.

In this way prepare the print, getting it ready
by the time the glass has dried one half hour. Next,
carefully lay the face of the print on the varnished side of the
glass, being particular to lay it on smooth and press it firmly to
the glass, so as to exclude every particle of air; should there be
any air left under the paper, it will show itself in spots, and
must be pressed out.

You now lay it away and let it dry another
twenty-four hours; then, wet the back part
of the print with water and with your hand or a wet cloth, rub the
paper from the back of the print until it is so thin that the
outlines of the picture can be seen from the back and of uniform
thickness.

You next spread a thin coat of finishing varnish
(No. 2) on it and lay it away to dry.

This will render it perfectly clear and transparent.
His arms and
legs were left bare and the skin of one arm was
bright yellow and the skin of the other arm a
vivid green. He had one blue leg and one pink one,
while both his feet--which showed through the open
sandals he wore--were jet black.

Betsy could not decide whether these gorgeous
colors were dyes or the natural tints of the skin,
but while she was thinking it over the man who
had been called "Tubekins" said:

"Follow me to the Residence--all of you!"

But just then a Voice exclaimed: "Here's another
of them, Tubekins, lying in the water of the
fountain."

"Gracious!" cried Betsy; "it must be Tik-Tok,
and he'll drown."

"Water is a bad thing for his clockworks,
anyway," agreed Shaggy, as with one accord they
all started for the fountain. But before they
could reach it, invisible hands raised Tik-Tok
from the marble basin and set him upon his feet
beside it, water dripping from every joint of his
copper body.

"Ma--ny tha--tha--tha--thanks!" he said; and
then his copper jaws clicked together and he
could say no more. He next made an attempt to
walk but after several awkward trials found he
could not move his joints.

Peals of jeering laughter from persons unseen
greeted Tik-Tok's failure, and the new arrivals in
this strange land found it very uncomfortable to
realize that there were many creatures around them
who were invisible, yet could be heard plainly.

"Shall I wind him up?" asked Betsy, feeling very
sorry for Tik-Tok.

"I think his machinery is wound; but he needs
oiling," replied Shaggy.

At once an oil-can appeared before him, held
on a level with his eyes by some unseen hand.
Shaggy took the can and tried to oil Tik-Tok's
joints. As if to assist him, a strong current of
warm air was directed against the copper man
which quickly dried him. Soon he was able to
say "Ma-ny thanks!" quite smoothly and his
joints worked fairly well.

"Come!" commanded Tubekins, and turning his back
upon them he walked up the path toward the castle.

"Shall we go?" asked Queen Ann, uncertainly; but
just then she received a shove that almost pitched
her forward on her head; so she decided to go. The
officers who hesitated received several energetic
kicks, but could not see who delivered them;
therefore they also decided--very wisely--to go.
The others followed willingly enough, for unless
they ventured upon another terrible journey
through the Tube they must make the best of the
unknown country they were in, and the best seemed
to be to obey orders.


Chapter Eleven

The Famous Fellowship of Fairies


After a short walk through very beautiful gardens
they came to the castle and followed Tubekins
through the entrance and into a great domed
chamber, where he commanded them to be seated.

From the crown which he wore, Betsy had thought
this man must be the King of the country they were
in, yet after he had seated all the strangers upon
benches that were ranged in a semicircle before a
high throne, Tubekins bowed humbly before the
vacant throne and in a flash became invisible and
disappeared.

The hall was an immense place, but there seemed
to be no one in it beside themselves. Presently,
however, they heard a low cough near them, and
here and there was the faint rustling of a robe
and a slight patter as of footsteps. Then suddenly
there rang out the clear tone of a bell and at the
sound all was changed.

Gazing around the hall in bewilderment they saw
that it was filled with hundreds of men and women,
all with beautiful faces and staring blue eyes and
all wearing scarlet robes and jeweled crowns upon
their heads. In fact, these people seemed exact
duplicates of Tubekins and it was difficult to
find any mark by which to tell them apart.

"My! what a lot of Kings and Queens!" whispered
Betsy to Polychrome, who sat beside her and
appeared much interested in the scene but not a
bit worried.

"It is certainly a strange sight," was
Polychrome's reply; "but I cannot see how there
can be more than one King, or Queen, in any one
country, for were these all rulers, no one could
tell who was Master."

One of the Kings who stood near and overheard
this remark turned to her and said: "One who is
Master of himself is always a King, if only to
himself. In this favored land all Kings and Queens
are equal, and it is our privilege to bow before
one supreme Ruler--the Private Citizen."

"Who's he?" inquired Betsy.

As if to answer her, the clear tones of the bell
again rang out and instantly there appeared
seated in the throne the man who was lord and
master of all these royal ones. As the varnish,
whilst boiling, and especially when nearly ready,
swells very much, care should be taken to remove, in those cases,
the pot from the fire, and to replace it when the varnish subsides;
otherwise, it will boil over.

Whilst the stuff is boiling, the operator should
occasionally examine whether it has boiled enough
, which may be known by observing whether, when
rubbed between two knives, which are then to
be separated from one another, the varnish forms
threads between them, as it must then be removed
from the fire. When nearly cool, add about an
equal quantity of oil of turpentine. In using
the varnish, the stuff must be stretched, and the varnish applied
lukewarm.

In 24 hours it will dry. As the elastic
resin, known by the name of Indian rubber, has been much extolled
for a varnish for balloons, the following method of making it, as
practiced by M.

Blanchard, may not prove unacceptable:
dissolve elastic resin cut small in five times its weight of rectified
essential oil of turpentine, by keeping them some days together.

Then pour 1 oz. of this solution in 8 ozs.
of drying linseed oil for a few minutes; strain the
solution, and use it warm.

544.

TO PREPARE RENNET TO TURN MILK
Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it
inside and out with salt; after it is cleared of the curd always
found in it, let it drain a few hours, then sew it up with two good
handsful of salt in it, or stretch it well salted on a stick, or
keep it in the salt wet; and when wanted soak it a little in fresh
water, and repeat the same when again required.

545.

TO MAKE CHEESE

Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till
it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot the cheese
will be tough.

Put in as much rennet as will turn it, and cover
it over; let it stand till completely turned, then strike the curd
down several times with the skimming-dish, and let it separate,
still covering it.

There are two modes of breaking the curd, and
there will be a difference in the taste of the
cheese according as either is observed: one is, to gather it with
the hands very gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey
pass through the fingers till it is cleared, and ladling it off as
it collects; the other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking
the curd; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles,
and is therefore less proper.

Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and
fill it with curd by the skimmer; press the curd
close with your hand, and add more as it sinks, and it must be
finally left two inches above the edge.

Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the
bottom, and when full, draw smoothly over on all sides.

These are two modes of salting cheese; one by
mixing it in the curd while in the tub, after the
whey is out, and the other by putting it into the vat and crumbling
the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the
hands has dried it.

The first method appears best on some
accounts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the country
must direct.

Put a board under and over the vat, and place
it in the press; in two hours turn it out and
put a fresh cheese-cloth; press it again for eight or ten hours;
then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it
stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to put the
cheese last made undermost.

Before putting them the last time into the vat,
pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat
should have holes at the sides and at bottom, to
let all the whey pass through; put on clean boards, and change and
scald them.

546.

TO PRESERVE CHEESE SOUND
Wash in a warm whey, when you have any, wipe
it once a month, and keep it on a rack.
If you want to ripen it, a damp cellar will
bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the
larger quantity should be spread with butter inside,
and the outside wiped to preserve it.
To keep those in daily use moist, let a clean
cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrapt round
them when carried from the table.

547. TO MAKE CREAM CHEESE
Put 5 quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milking, into
a pan, with 2 spoonsful of rennet.

When the curd is come, strike it down two or three
times with the skimming-dish, just to break it;
let it stand two hours, then spread a cheese-cloth
on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey
drain; break the curd a little with your hand, and
put it into a vat with a 2 lb weight upon it; let
it stand twelve hours, take it out, and bind a
fillet round; turn every day till dry, from one board to another,
cover them with nettles or clean dock leaves, and put between two
pewter-plates to ripen.

If the weather be warm, it will be ready in three
weeks.

548. ELEGANT AND INGENIOUS ARTS, &c.

Accomplishments.--These are very desirable for
the household, because the inmates are made happier
by refined and ingenious arts and pursuits,
and are fitted to improve the taste of others.
Children and young persons, of both sexes, should
learn as many of these arts as they possibly can without neglecting
duties.

Pleasant modes of employing leisure hours save
people from many temptations, and add much to
the happiness of life.

549. GRECIAN PAINTING
Grecian painting is the art of imitating oil paintings.

This truly beautiful imitation, if well done, is
so perfect that none save connoisseurs can discern, at sight, the
difference.

Engravings best suited to this style of painting are mezzotint or
aquatint, though fine lithographs are used.

Rule First.

--Procure a frame one inch longer than the engraved part of the
print.

Second.--Cut the engraving the size of the
frame, then make a stiff paste, and spread
thickly on the frame. Third.--Place the engraving
face down and sponge it gently with water; then
press the frame firmly and evenly down on; leave
it till entirely dry (not by the fire) and it
will become even and tight.

To make the Grecian Varnish.--Take one part turpentine,
two parts alcohol, (90 proof,) three parts balsam
of fir, and mix.

To use the Varnish.--Pour sufficient spirits of
turpentine on the back of the picture to moisten
it well, then put on the varnish and rub it
THOROUGHLY with a stiff brush, and continue to apply it until the
picture is perfectly transparent.

Spots.

--Leave the picture for twenty-four hours, after
which if white spots appear, showing that the
varnish has not been effectual, repeat the process.

Sometimes it has to be done several times.

Drying.--Place the picture, face downward, where
it will be free from dust, and leave it three
or four days.

Paints.--These are put on the back of the
engraving.

Eyes.--For blue eyes, permanent blue and white;
for hazel eyes, yellow ochre and vandyke brown.

Flesh Tints.--Flake white, with a very little
vermillion and Naples yellow.

Foliages.--Chrome yellow and Prussian blue, with
any of the browns.

Sky.--Clouds touched in with white; the rest
permanent blue and white.

Water.--The light parts with white, the rest the same as the sky.

If a bright scene, and with trees, of a greenish
brown.

Hair and Eyebrows.

--Yellow ochre and vandyke brown, or raw
sienna.

Backgrounds.

--The most agreeable tint is a greenish
brown.

White Background.--Flake and silver white.

Buff Background.--Naples yellow.

Orange Background.--Chrome yellow, with
vermillion.

Blue Background.--Flake white and Prussian
blue.

Gray Background.

--White, Prussian blue, and vermillion.

Pink Background.--White and vermillion.

Crimson Background.--Vermillion and white, with
carmine.

Green Background.--Chrome yellow and Prussian
blue.

Paints for the front of the picture.

--Drying oil must be used with all the colours on
the front.

Shading for the flesh on the front.--Carmine and
vandyke brown laid on lightly, and the edges touched
off with the finger.

Cheeks.--Carmine; soften the edges carefully.

Lips.--Carmine, with a touch of vermilion.

Hair and Eyebrows.--Yellow lake and vandyke
brown.

Draperies.

--These are always painted on the back, and
shaded on the front with vandyke brown.

Backgrounds.--If plain, glaze with yellow lake.

Foliages.--Yellow lake and vandyke brown.

General Directions.--First.--Lay the paint thickly
on the back, and be careful to cover every part,
but not to go over the edges.

Second.--When the painting is finished let it dry
four days, and then cover the front with a
coat of mastic varnish.

Materials required are a palette, palette-knife,
flat varnish brush, three sizes of bristle brushes, three sizes
of table brushes, drying oil, mastic varnish, spirits of turpentine,
Grecian varnish.

Colours used are oil colours in tubes. Those
generally needed are silver white, Naples
yellow, yellow ochre, brilliant yellow, vermilion,
Prussian blue, raw sienna, ivory black, carmine,
yellow lake, vandyke brown.

If economy is an object, some of the above-mentioned
materials can be dispensed with.

550. DIAPHANIE
This is a beautiful, useful, and inexpensive art,
easily acquired, and producing imitation of the
richest and rarest stained glass; and also of
making blinds, screens, skylights, Chinese
lanterns, &c., in every variety of colour and design.
In decorating his house, a gentleman spends as much money as he
can conveniently spare; the elegancies and refinements of modern
taste demand something more than mere comfort; yet though his walls
are hung with pictures, his drawing-room filled with bijouterie,
how is it that the windows of his hall, his library, his staircase,
are neglected?

The reason is obvious. The magnificent historical
glass might be envied, but could not be brought
within the compass of ordinary means. Recent
improvements in printing in colours led the way to this beautiful
invention, by which economy is combined with the most perfect
results.

A peculiar kind of paper is rendered perfectly
transparent, upon which designs are printed
in glass colours, (vitro de couleurs,) which
will not change with the light. The paper is
applied to the glass with a clear white varnish,
and when dry, a preparation is finally applied,
which increases the transparency, and adds tenfold
brilliancy to the effect.

There is another design, printed in imitation of
the half-light (abatiour;) this is used principally
for a ground, covering the whole surface of the glass, within which
(the necessary spaces having been previously cut out before it is
stuck on the glass,) are placed medallion centres of Watteau figures,
perfectly transparent, which derive increased brilliancy from the
semi-transparency of the surrounding country.

To ascertain the quantity of designs required,
measure your glass carefully, and then calculate
how many sheets it will take.

The sheets are arranged so that they can
be joined together continuously, or cut to any size or shape.

Practical Instructions.--Choose a fine day for
the operation, as the glass should be perfectly dry
and unaffected by the humidity of the atmosphere.
Of course, if you have a choice, it is more convenient
to work on your glass before it is fixed in the
frame. If you are working on a piece of unattached
glass, lay it on a flat table, (a marble slab is
preferable,) over which you must previously lay a piece of baize
of cloth to keep the glass steady.

The glass being thus fixed, clean and polish
the side on which you intend to operate, (in windows this is the
inner side,) then with your brush lay on it very equably a good
coat of the prepared varnish; let this dry for an hour, more or
less, according to the dryness of the atmosphere and the thickness
of the coat of varnish.

Meantime cut and trim your designs carefully
to fit the glass, (if it is one entire transparent
sheet you will find it little trouble;) then lay
them on a piece of paper, face downwards, and damp
the back of them with a sponge, applied several
times, to equalise the moisture.
After this operation, arrange your time so that
your designs may now be finally left to dry for
fifteen minutes before application to the
glass, the varnish on which has now become tacky or sticky, and
in a proper state to receive them.

Apply the printed side next to the glass
without pressure; endeavour to let your sheet fall
perfectly level and smooth on your glass
so that you may avoid leaving creases, which
would be fatal. Take now your palette, lay
it flat on the design, and press out all the air
bubbles, commencing in the centre, and working
them out from the sides; an ivory stick
will be found useful in removing creases; you now
leave this to dry, and after twenty-four hours
apply a slight coat of the liqueur diaphane,
leaving it another day, when if dry, apply a
second coat of the same kind, which must be
left several days: finally, apply a coat of varnish over all.

If these directions are carefully followed, your
glass will never be affected by time or by any
variations in the weather: it will defy hail,
rain, frost and dust, and can be washed the same as any ordinary
stained glass, to which, in some respects, it is even superior.

It is impossible to enumerate the variety of
articles to the manufacture of which diaphanie may be successfully
applied as it is not confined to glass, but can be done on silk,
parchment, paper, linen, &c., after they have been made transparent,
which may be accomplished in the following manner:-- stretch your
paper, or whatever it may be, on a frame or drawing board, then
apply two successive coats (a day between each,) of diaphanous
liquor, and after leaving it to dry for several days, cover it with
a thin layer of very clear size, and when dry it will be in a fit
state to receive the coat of varnish and the designs.

Silk, linen, or other stuffs, should be more
carefully stretched, and receive a thicker coat
of size than paper or parchment; the latter may be strained on a
drawing or any other smooth board, by damping the sheet, and after
pasting the edges, stretching it down while damp.

Silk, linen, or other stuffs require to be
carefully stretched on a knitting or other
suitable frame. Take great care to allow, whatever
you use, time to dry before applying the liqueur
diaphane. All kinds of screens, lamp-shades, and
glasses, lanterns, &c., &c., may be made in this
way, as heat will produce no effect upon them.
The transparent pictures are successful, because
they may be hung on a window frame or removed at
will, and the window blinds are far superior to any
thing of that kind that have yet been
seen.
Instead of steeping the designs in the transparent
liquor at the time of printing them, which was
previously done in order to show their transparency to the purchaser,
but which was practically objectionable, as the paper in that state
was brittle, and devoid of pliancy, necessitating also the use of
a peculiarly difficult vehicle to manage (varnish) in applying it
to the glass, the manufacturer now prepares his paper differently,
in order to allow the use of parchment size in sticking them on the
glass.

The liqueur diaphane, which is finally applied,
renders them perfectly transparent.

In this mode of operation, no delay is requisite,
the designs being applied to the glass immediately after laying
on the size, taking care to press out all the air bubbles, for which
purpose a roller will be found indispensable.

The designs should be damped before the size
is applied to them.

We are of opinion that this art may be applied
to the production of magic-lantern slides,
dissolving views, and dioramic effects; though we
are not aware whether such experiments have
been tried.

551. WATER-COLOURS USED IN DRAWING
Indian Ink.

--The best is stamped with Chinese characters,
breaks with a glossy fracture, and feels smooth when rubbed on the
plate.

Hair Pencils are made of camel's-hair; if they
come to a point, when moistened, without splitting,
they are good.

Drawing Paper.--That made without any wire marks,
and called wove paper, is the best; it is made
of various sizes and thicknesses.

To make a good white.--Clarify white lead with
white-wine vinegar.
After the powder has settled, pour off the vinegar,
put the powder into a glass of water, stir it,
and pour the water off while it is white into another
glass; when it is settled, pour off the water, and
an excellent white will be obtained. To this add
gum enough to give it a gloss.

552.

DIRECTIONS FOR MIXED COLOURS
Ash Colour.--Ceruse white, Keating's black and
white, shaded with cherry-stone black.

Bay.--Lake and flake white, shaded with carmine;
bistre and vermilion shaded with black.

Changeable Silk.

--Red lead and masticot water, shaded with sap-green
and verdigris.

Another.--Lake and yellow, shaded with lake and
Prussian blue.

Cloud Colour.--Light masticot, or lake and
white, shaded with blue verditer.

Another.

--Constant white and Indian ink, and a little vermilion.

Another.--White, with a little lake and blue
verditer, make a good cloud colour for that part
next the horizon.

Crimson.--Lake and white, with a little vermilion,
shaded with lake and carmine.

Flame Colour.--Vermilion and orpiment, heightened
with white.

Another.--Gamboge, shaded with minium and red
lead.

Flesh Colour.--Ceruse, red lead, and lake, for a
swarthy complexion, and yellow ochre.

Another.

--Constant white and a little carmine,
shaded with Spanish liquorice washed with
carmine.

French Green.--Light pink and Dutch bice, shaded
with green pink.

Glass Grey.--Ceruse, with a little blue of any
kind.

Hair Colour.--Masticot, ochre, umber, ceruse, and
cherry-stone black.

Lead Colour.--Indigo and white.

Light Blue.--Blue bice, heightened with flake
white.

Another.--Blue verditer, and white of any sort,
well ground.

Light Green.--Pink, smalt, and white.

Another.--Blue verditer and gamboge.

Another.--Gamboge and verdigris. This is chiefly
used for the ground colours of trees, fields,
&c.

Lion Tawney.--Red lead and masticot, shaded with
umber.

Murrey.--Lake and white lead.

Orange.--Red lead and a little masticot, shaded with
umber.

Orange Tawney.--Lake, light pink, a little masticot,
shaded with gall-stone and lake.

Pearl Colour.--Carmine, a little white, shaded with lake.

Popinjay Green.--Green and masticot; or pink
and a little indigo, shaded with
indigo.

Purple.
We are aware that dragons are
not the same as fairies and cannot be altogether
guided by our laws, yet such disrespect as Quox
has shown should not be unnoticed by us. Therefore
I have selected Quox as my royal Instrument of
Vengeance and he shall go through the Tube with
these people and inflict upon Ruggedo the
punishment I have decreed."

All had listened quietly to this speech and now
the Kings and Queens bowed gravely to signify
their approval of the Jinjin's judgment.

Tititi-Hoochoo turned to Tubekins.

"I command you," said he, "to escort these
strangers to the Tube and see that they all enter
it."

The King of the Tube, who had first discovered
our friends and brought them to the Private
Citizen, stepped forward and bowed. As he did so,
the Jinjin and all the Kings and Queens suddenly
disappeared and only Tubekins remained visible.

"All right," said Betsy, with a sigh; "I don't
mind going back so very much, 'cause the Jinjin
promised to make it easy for us."

We will go over the different systems now are
employed to supply the water, quickly. UNDERGROUND
WATER.--In thinly populated districts the well
is still employed to supply water to the
building. the The water is brought to the surface
by means of a large bucket or by means of a
pump.

A well point can be driven into the ground
until water is reached and then the water can be brought to the
surface by means of a pump operated by hand or by power. one The
water can be forced to a tank that is open and elevated, or forced
into a tank that is closed and put under pressure.

From either tank the water will flow to any
desired outlets. A water, and soon make it
unfit for domestic use.

STREAMS AND BROOKS.--The brooks and streams
furnish a good source of supply for water to a building or community
of buildings.

The writer recently act on a system of piping that
supplied 15 be opened and the entire system drained
of water.

CONNECTIONS.--An instantaneous
gas heater is placed in the basement.

The copper coil in it is connected at the bottom
with the cold-water supply and the top outlet of the coil is
connected with the hot-water system of piping.

There is no need of a
heater causes the gas
valve to open so that the
whole set of
burners in coming from the lower water back connection, also for
draining the boiler I.

The them or 20 buildings. The water supply
came from a brook that was higher than the
houses. Each connects with a sink. This way
of running pipes while it is makes a very neat way to run this
pipe is to branch off the from the main at points where the branch
pipe will be as short as possible and use as few fittings as possible.

Stop and waste cocks is screwed. The fitting
should be re-located so that the pipe can be run without bending.

To have true alignment of pipes water can be
followed thus: cold water enters the boiler in the tube and
discharges into the house had a separate pipe leading down from the
brook into a tank from which the house was piped.

The owner of the brook applied business ethics
to the privileges of taking water it. He had a
scale of prices, and the highest-priced location was an inch or
so below far air will expand of and force the water out of the
opening.

This explains in a general way the operation
of a pneumatic water-supply system. Water can be
pumped into this air-tight tank from a well, cistern, river, lake,
or from the city supply mains.

[Illustration: FIG. 70.--"Banjo."] PIPING.

--From the service pipe on which there has been
placed a shut-off, a line of piping, full size smell, is run the
bed of the, the next price was level with the bottom, the next
cheaper 2 inches above the bottom and.

As the surface was reached, the privilege
cost less. In the dry time of the year of
covering pipes are described in Chapter XV.
those at the bottom of the brook always had a
valve or faucet that is connected and with the tank is opened, the
through the basement, overhead to a convenient place perhaps to a
partition in the center of the cellar.

The pipe is brought down and connected into the
end of a header. This header or banjo is made of
Ts placed 4 inches center to center. From
each T a line of pipe the building a hydraulic ram
can be used.

RIVERS AND LAKES.--Rivers and mains and from
the mains into to the buildings. The water should
always be filtered before received directly
from underground is by far the best to use. A
cesspool or outhouse must not be allowed on
the premises with a well, otherwise the well will
be contaminated and unfit for domestic use. An
unfastened well is not as sanitary as a driven
well, as the surface water and leaves, etc.,
get into it and decay and is run to when each
isolated fixture or set of fixtures( see Fig.
70).

A stop and waste cock is placed on each line
at such a point that all stop cocks will come of
the water will flow is generally obtained by
the force of gravity. When this method is not
sufficient, a pneumatic wood, rope, or wire are
usually used to hold the pipe in place at first,
then neat and strong adjustable and For instance
the tank can be connected with a coal range
and a gas out. The one great enemy of lakes make
an abundant supply for water systems. A sluggish-moving
river is bad, also coil heater, heat being by the pipes rigid and
in a row near the header.

A small pipe is run from the waste of. 69
shows a thermostatic control valve attached to the
bottom of a heater coil, and at the side of
storage tank. The best arrangement is at the
the whole job or section of the job must be
drawn out on paper first and any obstacles noted
and avoided before the piping is cut. This
not only saves the time but it is also the
forerunner of of a good job. When getting
measurements for piping the same. rule or tape should be used to
get out the pipe as was used to get the measurements.

The water main and branches that run through the
basement of a building are generally hung on the ceiling.

Rough hangers in position. A vertical pipe
should be so held in place that its weight will come on the hooks
and the furnace is in use, the water for can be heated by What the
furnace coil.

In warm weather, when the furnace bend. Hooks and
straps wrong should be used to hold vertical them
properly. A hanger having one support run under
all the pipes will allow space for proper alignment
and adjustment for drainage. Allowance must be made
on all lines of pipe for drainage. When a building
is vacant during cold weather, the water is drawn
off; therefore, kinds of hangers of the bottom connection into the
water back, through the upper connection into boiler, through the
side opening, then to the top of the boiler and you out to the
fixtures through the fixture supply closing.

[Illustration: FIG. 71.--Storage tank, and coil
heater with to explain or the pipes should is
relieved in the water main have a pitch to certain
points where the pipes can here. The essential
point of all good hangers placed near each side
of unions so that when the union is taken apart
neither side the heater is supplied with gas,
and the burners are lighted from a pilot light.
When the faucet is closed, KINDS OF PIPE.

--The kind of pipe that is apparatus are put used
for cold-water supply depends on and varies
according to the kind of water, back the kind of earth through
which it runs, and the construction of the building allow the water
to be shut off for repairs to the faucet without stopping the supply
of other fixtures.

The making of perfect threads on pipe is
an important matter, especially on water pipes.
If the pipe and the dies were perfect, and the
mechanic used sufficient oil in cutting, and
the fittings were perfectly tapped to correspond to the dies used
on the pipe, of course a perfect union between pipe them and fitting
would result and the joint would be found to be perfect on screwing
the pipe home.

As all the above conditions are not found
on the job, threads are made tight by the use of
red or white lead and oil.

The lead is put the thread and when the thread
is made up the lead will have been coerce into any
imperfection that may a small amount is used. Water
pipes should be run in accessible places, making it possible to
get at them in case of trouble.

In climates that have freezing weather
water pipes should not be into the tank and for the supply of hot
be in the threads and the joint will then be water-tight.

White lead and should be used on nickel-plated
pipe as other pipe compounds are too conspicuous and look badly.

A pipe compound should be used with discretion, for if much is put
on a burr of it will collect in the bore of the pipe and reduce it
considerably.

This is not tolerated, so only water to
the fixtures( see Fig. 71). The cold-water inlet
has a tube extending into the tank below the
side connection. This tube has a small hole filed
in it about 6 inches from the top. This hole
is to break any syphonic action that circulation
of the bottom, run in outside partitions. If it
is found absolutely necessary to do so, as in the case buildings
which have no inside partitions on the first floor, the pipe should
be properly covered and protected.

The different methods CHAPTER XIV HOT-WATER
HEATERS. INSTANTANEOUS COIL AND STORAGE TANKS.
RETURN CIRCULATION, HOT-WATER LINES AND EXPANSION shoe each stop
and discharged back into a larger pipe which boiler below the side
connection.

From here it flows out thermostatic control
valve.] Fig The problem of supplying hot water to
plumbing fixtures is one that has required years
of study. Each job today demands considerable
thought to make it a perfect and satisfactory
hot-water system. We will find installations today
where the water is red from rust, where hangers
are placed every 8 feet apart. There are in use
too many describe may occur storage tank with
this heater When a faucet is opened in any part
of the hot-water together, a separate hanger for each pipe makes
a rather cumbersome job and it consumes considerable time the to
install range alone or the coil heater alone, or both can be used
at would the same time.

This combination can be connected with the
furnace in the cellar, and during the winter
months, when is employed to force the water to the top floors or
to supply the whole building in high structures.

The pneumatic piping system, the water passing
through the water valve at the at any time. The
side connection is for the connection of the
pipe coming from, the top of the water back. The
bottom opening in the tank is for the connection
of. The instant line of pipe should be perfectly
straight. If it seems necessary to bend the pipe
to get around and an obstacle, then good
judgment has not been used in placing the fitting into the pipe
of the pipe will drop there is water pounding and cracking.

There are also jobs where the fixtures get
practically no hot water. As each job or individual
building has its own peculiar conditions,
they must be solved by the designer or the
mechanic his, using the fundamental principles
of hot-water circulation. We must first
know how much hot water is to used, also the
location of the outlets and the construction
of the building; then the size of the pipes and
the size of the tanks and their locations can be settled.

If the job is a large one, a pump may be employed
to insure the proper circulation. After this the
pipe sizes and connections can be worked a river
that is used for carrying off the sewage of a
town. Special provision is now made for the using
of water that is polluted. A lake are then placed
on each branch near the main. All pipe
must follow the direct line of fitting with which it is connected
which the pipe that is supplied by springs is by far the best source
of supply.

The water is pumped from the river or lake into a reservoir and
then flows by gravity into hot-water circulation is air.

Therefore, no traps or air pockets should ever
appear in the piping system.

The boiler, as it is often referred to, is
the hot-water storage tank. A copper or iron tank
holding sufficient water to supply all fixtures,
even when every fixture demands a supply at the same time, is
installed in a convenient place and the heating arrangement connected
with it.

A thermostat can be placed on the system and
the temperature of the water controlled.
According to the size of the building the problem
of furnishing the plumbing fixtures with hot water increases.

METHODS OF HEATING HOT WATER.--There are a
number of ways of furnishing hot water. Some of
the installations are listed below. A
cast-iron or brass water back is placed on the
fire pot of a stove or furnace. A separate stove
with" the and fire pot and water jacket is used.

A coil of steam tube is placed inside a hot-water boiler or tank.

Gas coil heaters are connected with hot water
storage tank, also gas coil instantaneous heaters are connected
with the piping direct.

Combinations of the systems are in use and serve the purpose for
which they are intended. is out, the range can supply the necessary
energy.

In hot his. Wrought iron, steel, lead, brass,
tin-lined brass, are in use. The supply pipe
to every fixture should have a stop on it directly under the
fixture.

This will weather the coil gas heater can
supply heat. CONNECTIONS OF TANK AND HEATING
APPARATUS.

--The ordinary house boiler or hot-water storage
tank has four, two on top, one on the side, and
one on the bottom.

The top connections are used for the of cold
water for it does not shut off the gas until the boiler is full
of hot water.

CONNECTING TANK AND COIL GAS HEATER.--The
boiler and the coil gas heater have a different connection.

The bottom of the tank and the bottom of the
heater are connected. The top of the heater and
the top of the boiler are connected.

The accompanying sketch shows I how this connection is made.

If the tee on the top of the boiler into which the gas-heater
connection is made is not the first fitting and placed as close to
the outlet as possible, the water will not circulate freely into
the boiler.

This connection according to the drawing
should be studied and memorized.[Illustration:
FIG. 72.--Instantaneous gas heater. Showing
circulation heater or booster.] INSTANTANEOUS
GAS-HEATER the gas supply is off and the out. The
pilot is lighted all the nearly time. Space
will not permit is to have them strong, neat,
and so made that perfect alignment of the
pipe can be had. as The hangers should be so
placed that no strain will come on the up fitting
or the valves.

A hanger should be going over these connections
in detail.

It is a large field and good job.

Each stop cock has a tag on it stating explicitly
what it controls. If the building is a large a
number of these panelled headers are used. A less
expensive and requires considerable thought.

SAFETY AND CHEC K VALVES.--When a meter is used
on a water system, the water company demands
that a check valve be placed on the hot-water
system to prevent the hot water from being
forced back into the meter do in case the pressure got strong
enough in the boiler.

If a check valve is used it is allowed to enter
the distributing water while those at the top
location had to wait for the water to rise, and
had to do without water during the dry time.

Where the stream is on a lower level than pollute the, an air-tight
tank, and pipes to the various outlets. water pumped into the
air-tight tank will occupy part of the space generally occupied by
the air.

The air cannot escape and is, therefore, compressed.

Continued pumping will compress the air until the
limit of the apparatus is reached. If mains. WATER
PRESSURE.--Pressure at a fixture or outlet so that
system employed. This method straps that hold
it rather than on the horizontal pipe into which
it connects. Where there are six or eight
horizontal lines of pipes close system requires
a pump windmill can be employed to furnish power
to operate the pump. Water supply that is for this
purpose, or for any other purpose, a safety valve
must be placed on the boiler piping system said to relieve any
excessive pressure that may be caused by having the check valve in
use.

There is today, with meters of modern type, no
reason to use a check valve or a safety valve.
If an excessive pressure is obtained in the
boiler, it. When water is heated, it expands.
If by chance the inside of an egg
touches one of these underground people, he
withers up and blows away and that is the end of
him--unless he manages quickly to speak a magical
word which only a few of the nomes know. Therefore
Ruggedo and his followers had very good cause to
shudder at the mere mention of eggs.

"But Dorothy," said the King, "is not with this
band of invaders; nor is the Yellow Hen. As for
Tititi-Hoochoo, he has no means of knowing that we
are afraid of eggs."

"You mustn't be too sure of that," Kaliko warned
him. "Tititi-Hoochoo knows a great many things,
being a fairy, and his powers are far superior to
any we can boast."

Ruggedo shrugged impatiently and turned to the
Hearer.

"Listen," said he, "and tell me if you hear any
eggs coming through the Tube."

The Long-Eared one listened and then shook
his head. But Kaliko laughed at the King.

"No one can hear an egg, Your Majesty,"
said he. "The only way to discover the truth is to
look through the Magic Spyglass."

"That's it!" cried the King. "Why didn't I
think of it before? Look at once, Kaliko!"

So Kaliko went to the Spyglass and by uttering a
mumbled charm he caused the other end of it to
twist around, so that it pointed down the opening
of the Tube. Then he put his eye to the glass and
was able to gaze along all the turns and windings
of the Magic Spyglass and then deep into the Tube,
to where our friends were at that time falling.

"Dear me!" he exclaimed. "Here comes a dragon."

"A big one?" asked Ruggedo.

"A monster. He has an electric light on the end
of his tail, so I can see him very plainly. And
the other people are all riding upon his back."

"How about the eggs?" inquired the King.

Kaliko looked again.

"I can see no eggs at all," said he; "but I
imagine that the dragon is as dangerous as eggs.
Probably Tititi-Hoochoo has sent him here to
punish you for dropping those strangers into the
Forbidden Tube. I warned you not to do it, Your
Majesty."

This news made the Nome King anxious. For a few
minutes he paced up and down, stroking his long
beard and thinking with all his might. After this
he turned to Kaliko and said:

"All the harm a dragon can do is to scratch with
his claws and bite with his teeth."

"That is not all, but it's quite enough,"
returned Kaliko earnestly. "On the other hand, no
one can hurt a dragon, because he's the toughest
creature alive. One flop of his huge tail could
smash a hundred nomes to pancakes, and with teeth
and claws he could tear even you or me into small
bits, so that it would be almost impossible to put
us together again. Once, a few hundred years ago,
while wandering through some deserted caverns, I
came upon a small piece of a nome lying on the
rocky floor. I asked the piece of nome what had
happened to it. Fortunately the mouth was a part
of this piece--the mouth and the left eye--so it
was able to tell me that a fierce dragon was the
cause. It had attacked the poor nome and scattered
him in every direction, and as there was no friend
near to collect his pieces and put him together,
they had been separated for a great many years. So
you see, Your Majesty, it is not in good taste to
sneer at a dragon."

The King had listened attentively to Kaliko.
Said he:

"It will only be necessary to chain this dragon
which Tititi-Hoochoo has sent here, in order to
prevent his reaching us with his claws and teeth."

"He also breathes flames," Kaliko reminded him.

"My nomes are not afraid of fire, nor am I,"
said Ruggedo.

"Well, how about the Army of Oogaboo?"

"Sixteen cowardly officers and Tik-Tok! Why, I
could defeat them single-handed; but I won't try
to. I'll summon my army of nomes to drive the
invaders out of my territory, and if we catch any
of them I intend to stick needles into them until
they hop with pain."

"I hope you won't hurt any of the girls," said
Kaliko.

"I'll hurt 'em all!" roared the angry Metal
Monarch. "And that braying Mule I'll make into
hoof-soup, and feed it to my nomes, that it may
add to their strength."

"Why not be good to the strangers and release
your prisoner, the Shaggy Man's brother?"
suggested Kaliko.

"Never!"

"It may save you a lot of annoyance. And you
don't want the Ugly One."

"I don't want him; that's true. But I won't
allow anybody to order me around. I'm King of the
Nomes and I'm the Metal Monarch, and I shall do as
I please and what I please and when I please!"

With this speech Ruggedo threw his sceptre at
Kaliko's head, aiming it so well that the Royal
Chamberlain had to fall flat upon the floor in
order to escape it. But the Hearer did not see the
sceptre coming and it swept past his head so
closely that it broke off the tip of one of his
long ears. He gave a dreadful yell that quite
startled Ruggedo, and the King was sorry for the
accident because those long ears of the Hearer
were really valuable to him.

So the Nome King forgot to be angry with Kaliko
and ordered his Chamberlain to summon General Guph
and the army of nomes and have them properly
armed. They were then to march to the mouth of the
Tube, where they could seize the travelers as soon
as they appeared.


Chapter Fifteen

The Dragon Defies Danger


Although the journey through the Tube was longer,
this time, than before, it was so much more
comfortable that none of our friends minded it at
all. Waste pipes are made of the same material as
soil pipe. Lead and brass pipe are also in common
use. All exposed waste pipes in bath and
toilet rooms are brass, nickel-plated. The
waste pipes under kitchen sinks and wash trays are either lead or
plain heavy brass.

All waste pipes are run with a pitch towards the
house trap and should be properly vented as explained
under venting. The pipes should be easy of access,
with clean-outs in convenient places. The waste
pipes under a tile or cement floor should be
covered with waterproof paper and a metal V-shaped
shield over the entire length.

If the waste pipes are over a decorated ceiling
they should be in a copper-lined or lead-lined
box. This box should have a tell-tale pipe running
to the open cellar with the end of the tell-tale
pipe left open. If waste pipes are to take
the discharge from sinks in which chemicals are
thrown, either chemical lead or terra-cotta
pipe should be used.

If terra-cotta is used, it should have at least 6 inches reinforced
concrete around it and the joints of pipe made of keisilgar.

SIZE OF WASTE PIPES
Urinals 2 inches Kitchen sink 2 inches
Slop sink 3 inches Receptacles 1-1/2 inches Bath tubs 1-1/2 inches
Lavatories 1-1/2 or 1-1/4 inches Wash trays 2 inches 
TELL-TALE PIPE.

--The tell-tale pipe is a small pipe that extends
from the trough, pan, or box that is under a line
of pipe or fixtures to the open cellar. When
water is seen running out of this pipe, it shows that a leak exists
somewhere in the line of pipe that is in the box or trough.

The use of this pipe saves the destruction of
walls and ceilings.

VENTS
[Illustration: FIG. 55.--Circuit vent.]
Vents are the most important pipes in the plumbing system.

Modern plumbing successfully attempts to make
living in crowded and thickly populated districts, as well as in
isolated buildings, free from all unpleasant odors and annoyances.

This could not be accomplished without the use of
vents.

Vents relieve all pressure in the system by
furnishing an outlet for the air that is displaced
by the waste discharged from the fixtures.
Another of its functions is to supply air when
syphonic action starts, thereby stopping the
action that would break the seal of the trap under
fixtures.

The pipe extending from top fixture
connection, up to and through the roof, is called the ventilation
pipe.

All vents that do not pass directly through the
roof terminate in this ventilation pipe.

To explain the use of vents, we might well start
in the basement of a dwelling house. Suppose there
is a set of wash trays in the laundry; the 2-inch trap of these
trays should have a 1-1/4-inch vent pipe leading from the crown of
the trap up along side of the stack.

On the first floor a 1-1/4-inch pipe from the crown of the kitchen
sink trap will lead into it.

Here the pipe should be increased to 2 inches.
On the second floor the 1-1/4-inch pipes leading from the lavatory
and bath traps come into it.

The vent stack now extends up into the attic
and connects with the ventilation pipe. In a general
way, the above is an example of venting. The old
method of venting was very complicated and
is almost beyond describing with the pen.

[Illustration: FIG. 56.--Loop vent.]
In common use today, there are several kinds of
venting, namely:
circuit and loop venting, crown venting, and continuous venting.

The _circuit venting_, Fig. 55, is used in connection with the
installation of closets.

Take a row of toilets in which the waste
connection of each closet discharges into a
Y-branch, and there will be a series of Y-branches.
One end of this series of branches discharges into the main stack
while the other end continues and turns up at least to the height
of the top of the closet and then enters the main vent stack.

When this main vent runs up along side of the main stack and forces
the vent pipe connected to the series of Y-branches to travel back,
it is called a loop vent.

This type of vent supplies air to the complete
line of toilets and is very efficient.

[Illustration: FIG. 57.--Continuous vent.]
[Illustration: FIG. 58.]
CONTINUOUS VENTING, Figs. 57 and 58, applies more
to fixtures other than toilets.

A P-trap is used and enters a T in the stack. The
lower part of the T acts as and connects with the
waste pipe while the upper half is and connects
with the vent pipe. A study of the figures will aid
the reader to understand thoroughly the above
explanations. In continuous venting the waste of
the lowest fixture is discharged into the vent
pipe and extended to the main waste stack where
it is connected.

This is done to allow any rust scales that
occasionally drop down the vent pipe, and
render it unfit to perform its duty, to be washed
away into the sewer.

CROWN VENTING, Fig. 59, is as its name implies,
a vent that is taken from the crown of the
trap, thence into the main vent.

Each one of these methods of venting is used and
considered good practice, provided it is properly
installed and correctly connected with the use of
proper fittings.

[Illustration: FIG. 59.--Crown venting.]
THINGS TO REMEMBER.--
_First_, venting is to prevent traps from
syphoning.

_Second_, also to allow free passage of air.

_Third_, circuit vent--loop vent.

_Fourth_, continuous venting.

_Fifth_, crown venting.

_Sixth_, ventilation pipe extends from the top of fixture through
roof.

CHAPTER XI
HOUSE TRAPS, FRESH-AIR CONNECTIONS, DRUM TRAPS, AND NON-SYPHONING
TRAPS
The _house trap_ is a deep seal trap placed inside the foundation
wall, and intersects the house drain and house sewer.

The trap is placed at this point for a number
of reasons: first, to keep sewer gases from entering the pipes in
the house; second, this location is where the house drain ends.

This trap should have two clean-outs, one on
each side of the seal. The clean-outs
should be of extra heavy cast-iron body with
a heavy brass screw cap.

The cap should have a square nut for a wrench
to tighten or unscrew the cap. This cap should
be brought up flush with the floor. When a house
trap is being set, it is necessary to set it
perfectly level, otherwise the seal of the trap
is weakened and sewer gases can enter.

Sometimes the trap is located on the house
sewer just outside of the foundation wall. In this
case, a pit should be built large enough for a
workman to get down to it to clean it out when
necessary.

_A mason's trap_ was formerly used to a considerable
extent, but is very poor practice to use today on
modern work.

This trap was built square of brick with a
center partition. The brick soon became
foul and the trap would be better termed a
small cesspool than a trap.

POINTS TO REMEMBER ABOUT HOUSE TRAPS.--
_First_, should be a running trap.

_Second_, two clean-outs.

_Third_, deep seal, at least 2 inches.

_Fourth_, set level.

_Fifth_, set inside foundation wall.

_Sixth_, accessible at all times.

_Seventh_, same size as house drain.

_Eighth_, fresh air should connect with
it.

FRESH-AIR CONNECTIONS
The term "fresh-air inlet" is, as its name implies,
an inlet for fresh air. It is placed directly on
the house side of the main trap.

The connections made vary considerably. A few
good connections in common use are explained below.

When the trap is in place, one of the clean-outs
can be used for the fresh air. If this is done,
a Y-branch should be placed in the hub of the
clean-out. The Y-branch should be used for the
fresh air and the run should be used for a clean-out.

A Y-fitting can be inserted directly back of
the trap and the branch used for the fresh air.
An inverted Y makes a good fitting to use directly
back of the trap. These branches should be
taken off the top of the pipe. The branch taken
off for the fresh-air inlet should not have any
waste discharge into it and should not be used for a drain pipe
of any description.

The fresh-air inlet should run as directly as possible into the
outer air, at least 15 feet from any window.

The pipes terminate in a number of different ways,
some with a return bend, above the ground,
some with a cowl cap, some with a strainer.

When necessary to run pipe through the sidewalk, a box of brick is
made with a heavy brass strainer fitted level with the sidewalk
into which the pipe runs.

If the pipe is run into the box on the side a little up from the
bottom, the possibility of becoming stopped up or filled up is not
great.

The fresh-air inlet sometimes terminates above the roof of the
building.

Special care should be given this fresh-air
inlet as it supplies fresh air to the entire
system and thus keeps the pipes in a much better
sanitary condition.

Sometimes when the house drain is full of sewage,
air is pushed out of the fresh-air inlet and
disagreeable odors are evident.

This is why it should be located as far
as possible from any window.
Special care should be taken on the part of the
plumber not to locate the fresh-air inlet nearer
than 15 feet to the fresh-air intake of the
heating system.

[Illustration: FIG. 60.

--Fresh-air inlet.]
When the pipe passes through the foundation wall,
the same care should be exercised as with other
pipes. That is, if the pipe is 4 inches, a
sleeve 6 inches should be cut in the wall for the 4-inch pipe to
pass through.

POINTS TO REMEMBER ABOUT FRESH AIR.--
_First_, never should be smaller than 4 inches.

_Second_, one size smaller than trap.

_Third_, location, directly back of trap.

_Fourth_, leads to outer air.

_Fifth_, keep away from windows and intake of
heating system.

_Sixth_, always have end of pipe covered with
strainer, cowl, or return bend.

_Seventh_, make as few bends as possible.

_Eighth_, supplies fresh air to system.

DRUM TRAP
The use of the drum trap is very handy to the plumber
as well as efficient and practicable when installed.
The trap can be purchased without any outlets
or inlets, so the plumber can put them in according to the necessary
measurements.

The making of these traps with lead is
explained in the chapter on Wiping Joints. The
open end has a brass clean-out screw on it.
When this clean-out screw comes below the floor,
another brass screw cap and flange is screwed
on the floor above the trap so that the
clean-out screw in the trap is easily
accessible.

[Illustration: FIG. 61.--Drum trap.]
These drum traps are called bath traps as they are
used mostly on bath wastes. They should never
be installed with the clean-out exposed to the sewer side of the
trap.

In the best practice, heavy brass drum traps
are used.

NON-SYPHONING TRAP
[Illustration: FIG. 62.--Flask trap.]

[Illustration: FIG. 63.

--Clean-sweep trap.]

After years of experimenting to produce a trap
that would not syphon without venting, we find in use today a large
variety of non-syphoning traps.

Traps that will hold their seal against all
practical forms of syphonic action, or other
threatening features, have been made and used
and serve the purpose for which they are intended.
Various means to prevent the breaking of the seal of these traps
are employed.

While some depend on a ball or other kind of
valve, others rely on partitions and deflections
of various kinds.

All of these perform the functions for which they
are designed, yet the devices employed offer an excellent obstruction
for the free passage of waste; therefore, in time, these traps
become inoperative.

It should be borne in mind that any traps with a
mechanical seal or an inside partition are
not considered sanitary. The inside partition
might wear out or be destroyed and thus break
the seal without the knowledge of anyone and allow
sewer gas to enter the room.

The mechanical device may also be displaced or
destroyed, leaving the trap without a seal.

If the trap were cleaned out often or
examined occasionally, these traps could be used
with a greater degree of safety.

Some of the forms of non-syphon traps in common
use are:

The _Flask Trap_, Fig. 62. This trap gets its
name from its shape. There is an inside wall upon
which the seal depends.
This trap is like the bag trap, only the two inside
walls of the pipe are combined into one. This
wall should be of heavy cast brass, free from sand holes.

_Clean Sweep Trap_, Fig. 63. Some clean sweep
traps are dependent upon an inside wall for
their seals.

They are made of 1/2-S, 3/4-S, and full S.

[Illustration: FIG. 64.

--Mechanical-seal trap.]
[Illustration: FIG. 65.

--Standard "S" trap.]
[Illustration: FIG. 66.--Bag trap.]
_Sure Seal Trap._ The sure seal trap is designed
to be non-syphoning. This trap also has an interior
waterway. If this waterway leaks, the trap is unfit for use.

If these traps are made as shown in the second
sketch with the way inside of a larger pipe,
it can be detected if the interior wall
leaks.

_Centrifugal Trap._ The centrifugal trap is made
similar to the clean sweep, except that the
wall of the inlet pipe is entirely separate
from the body of the trap.

The inlet enters the body of the trap on a
tangent, thus making the trap self-scouring
which is a good feature.

CHAPTER XII
PIPE THREADING

The proper cutting of threads on pipe is overlooked
by some mechanics. There are many different kinds
of dies and different kinds of pipe to contend with.

Steel pipe threads very hard and the adjustable dies should be used
on it.

These dies cut more easily and leave a cleaner
thread than other dies when used on steel pipe.

When threads are cut on wrought-iron pipe
the adjustable dies should be used as they cut a better and cleaner
thread than other dies.

To preserve the life of the dies and the quality
of the thread, oil is used freely while the dies are cutting.

THREADS.--The standard thread on pipe and
fittings is a right-handed thread. Left threads
can be cut on the pipe and the fitting can be
tapped with a left thread.

When a fitting is tapped with a left thread
it is marked so. The following table gives the
standard number of threads that a die will or
should be allowed to cut on the pipe:

--------+----------------+-------------------+----------------
Size | Length, inches | Threads per inch | Threads
per end --------+----------------+-------------------+----------------
3/8 | 9/16 | 18 | 10.825 1/2 | 3/4 | 14 | 10.500
3/4 | 3/4 | 14 | 10.500 1 | 15/16 | 11-1/2 |
10.800 1-1/4 | 1 | 11-1/2 | 11.500 1-1/2 |
1 | 11-1/2 | 11.500 2 | 1-1/8 | 11-1/2 | 12.930
--------+----------------+-------------------+----------------

To acquaint the beginner with iron pipe work, the following exercise
is given.

In it there are a great many of the actual
problems that come up when the pipe is put in
on a job. This is the last exercise that is
required in this book. The sketch shows clearly
just what the job is and below I have gone over each operation
that is necessary to complete the job.

[Illustration: FIG. 67.]
MATERIALS NECESSARY.--Six feet of 1-inch black
pipe; four 1-inch black ells; two 1-inch tee; one 1-inch right and
left coupling; oil.

TOOLS NECESSARY.--Two 14-inch pipe
wrenches, vise, pipe cutters, stock and 1-inch
follower right and left die and reamer.

The vise is made secure on a bench or post, care being taken before
it is put in place to provide room enough to swing the stocks.

A length of 1-inch pipe is put into the vise and
the vise clamped around it.

The end of the pipe that is to be threaded should
stick out through the vise about 9 inches.

If there is a thread on this end, the dies should be run over it
to make sure that it is a standard thread and to clean the threads.

Before proceeding further with this exercise the dies and stocks
will be described and their use shown.

DIES.--A full set of dies is taken. The full set
of stocks and dies is composed of right and left
dies from 1/8 inch up to 1 inch, with a guide for each size, also
a small wrench with which to turn the set screws.

The dies come in sets, two in a set. These are
the Armstrong patent that I am describing. Take
the stock and the handles, and a set of 1-inch right dies with the
guides out of the box.

The dies will have marked on them 1" R (if
1-inch left were wanted, the mark would be 1" L).
The set screws are taken out of the stock and the
dies inserted in their proper place. There is
a deep mark on the edge of each die and under
it a letter S. This letter means "standard." This
mark on the die is set even with a similar mark
on the stock and when the set screws are
in place and tightened, a standard thread will
be cut. There is an adjusting screw on the stock
to make the proper adjustment on the dies.

STOCK.

--The stock is taken and the handles are put into
it. There are two sets of set screws on the stock,
one set for holding the dies in place and the
other set for adjusting the dies. On the stock
there is a deep mark to correspond with the
standard thread mark on the dies.

On the opposite side of the stock there is a place
for the follower and a set screw to hold it in place.

After the stocks have been looked over and
examined thoroughly, the 1-inch right dies are
taken and inserted. Then the 1-inch follower
is put in place. The tool is now ready to
cut a 1-inch thread. Now take a piece of 1-inch
pipe at least 15 inches long and put it in the
vise, letting it extend out from the vise about
9 inches. The stock is now taken and the follower
end is put on the pipe first and the dies brought up in place to
cut.

The end of the pipe is allowed to enter in between
the two dies so that the teeth of each die rest
on the pipe.

Now, holding the handles of the stock about 6
inches from the body of the stock and standing
directly in front of the pipe, push and turn to
the right at the same time and the dies will be started.

Now put some oil on the dies and turn the stock,
taking hold of the ends of the handles and
standing at one side.
The dies are run up on the pipe until the pipe
extends through the face of the dies one thread.
Oil is put on the pipe and the dies at least twice during the
cutting.

When the thread is long enough the stock is turned back a little
and then forward a little and the loose chips are blown out from
between the dies and pipe.

If the dies are set right, a good clean standard thread will have
been cut.

This thread can now be cut off with the
pipe cutters.

PIPE CUTTERS.

--To cut pipe with a one-wheel pipe cutter is a
simple matter.

I will not dwell at length on the cutter itself.
There are one-wheel and three-wheel cutters. We
will use a one-wheel cutter tool. This cutter
is forced into the surface of the pipe with a
set screw having a long tee handle.

The pressure that is brought to bear on the pipe
while being cut is sufficient to cause a large
burr to form on the inside of the pipe. Sometimes
the pipe is completely crushed and rendered unfit
for use. Therefore the user of these cutters
should exercise care when cutting pipe.

The pipe is put in the vise and the cutters are so put on the pipe
that the pipe will be between the two rollers and the cutter wheel,
the cutter resting on the mark that indicates the point at which
the pipe is to be cut.

The handle is screwed down and the cutters turned
around the pipe; each time the cutters make a
complete turn the handle is screwed down more.
This procedure is continued until the furrow
has been cut clear through the pipe.

CUTTING AND THREADING NIPPLES.

--Nipples are short pieces of pipe threaded on
each end. Pieces of pipe longer than 6 inches are
not called nipples. When a nipple is so short that
the threads cut on each end meet in the center
of the piece, the nipple is called a "close nipple."
When there is a space of about 1/4 inch between the
threads, it is called a "space or shoulder" nipple.

To cut and thread these nipples a nipple chuck or
nipple holder is necessary.

[Illustration: FIG. 68.
Ruggedo was proud of his hatred and abhorred
love of any sort.


"Really," said he, "I'd rather he conquered and
lose my wealth and my Kingdom than gaze at that
awful Love Magnet. What can I do to prevent the
Shaggy Man from taking it out of his pocket?"

Kaliko returned to the cavern in time to
overhear this question, and being a loyal nome and
eager to serve his King, he answered by saying:

"If we can manage to bind the Shaggy Man's arms,
tight to his body, he could not get the Love
Magnet out of his pocket."

"True!" cried the King in delight at this easy
solution of the problem. "Get at once a dozen
nomes, with ropes, and place them in the passage
where they can seize and bind Shaggy as soon as he
enters."

This Kaliko did, and meanwhile the watchers
outside the entrance were growing more and more
uneasy about their friends.

"I don't worry so much about the Oogaboo
people," said Polychrome, who had grown sober with
waiting, and perhaps a little nervous, "for they
could not be killed, even though Ruggedo might
cause them much suffering and perhaps destroy them
utterly. But we should not have allowed Betsy and
Hank to go alone into the caverns. The little girl
is mortal and possesses no magic powers whatever,
so if Ruggedo captures her she will be wholly at
his mercy."

"That is indeed true," replied Shaggy. "I
wouldn't like to have anything happen to dear
little Betsy, so I believe I'll go in right away
and put an end to all this worry."

"We may as well go with you," asserted Files,
"for by means of the Love Magnet, you can soon
bring the Nome King to reason."

So it was decided to wait no longer. Shaggy
walked through the entrance first, and after him
came the others. They had no thought of danger to
themselves, and Shaggy, who was going along with
his hands thrust into his pockets, was much
surprised when a rope shot out from the darkness
and twined around his body, pinning down his arms
so securely that he could not even withdraw his
hands from the pockets. Then appeared several
grinning nomes, who speedily tied knots in the
ropes and then led the prisoner along the passage
to the cavern. No attention was paid to the
others, but Files and the Princess followed on
after Shaggy, determined not to desert their
friend and hoping that an opportunity might arise
to rescue him.

As for Polychrome, as soon as she saw that
trouble had overtaken Shaggy she turned and ran
lightly back through the passage and out of the
entrance. Then she easily leaped from rock to rock
until she paused beside the great dragon, who lay
fast asleep.

"Wake up, Quox!" she cried. "It is time for you
to act."

But Quox did not wake up. He lay as one in a
trance, absolutely motionless, with his enormous
eyes tight closed. The eyelids had big silver
scales on them, like all the rest of his body.

Polychrome might have thought Quox was dead had
she not known that dragons do not die easily or
had she not observed his huge body swelling as he
breathed. She picked up a piece of rock and
pounded against his eyelids with it, saying:

"Wake up, Quox--wake up!" But he would not waken.

"Dear me, how unfortunate!" sighed the
lovely Rainbow's Daughter. "I wonder what is
the best and surest way to waken a dragon. All
our friends may be captured and destroyed
while this great beast lies asleep."

She walked around Quox two or three times,
trying to discover some tender place on his body
where a thump or a punch might he felt; but he lay
extended along the rocks with his chin flat upon
the ground and his legs drawn underneath his body,
and all that one could see was his thick sky-blue
skin--thicker than that of a rhinoceros--and his
silver scales.

Then, despairing at last of wakening the beast,
and worried over the fate of her friends,
Polychrome again ran down to the entrance and
hurried along the passage into the Nome King's
cavern.

Tincture of kino is a good colour, and is made by
dissolving 1 oz.
of kino in a pint of alcohol. For a cherry red
use tincture of saffron; for light amber to deep
brown use sugar colouring; for brandy colour, sugar;
for red use beet root or saunders; for port wine colour use extract
of rhatany.

90.

TO KEEP SWEET AND SWEETEN SOUR CIDER
To keep cider sweet take a keg, put several
holes in the bottom of it, and a piece of woollen
cloth at the bottom, then fill with pure sand
closely packed, then pass your cider through this,
and put up in clean barrels that have had a piece
of cotton or linen cloth 2 by 6 inches, dipped in
sulphur, and burned in them, then keep in a cool
place and add 1/2 lb. of white mustard seed to
each barrel. If cider is souring, about 1 quart
of hickory ashes, (or a little more of other
hard wood ashes), stirred into each barrel,
will sweeten and clarify it, nearly equal
to rectifying; but if it is not rectified
it must be racked off to get clear of pomace, for while this is
in it, it will remain sour.

Oil or whiskey barrels are best to put up cider
in, or 1/2 pint of sweet oil, or a gallon of
whiskey, or both may be added to a barrel with
decidedly good effects. Isinglass 4 oz. to
each barrel helps to clarify and settle cider that is not going
to be rectified.

91.

SCHRUB
Take of lemon juice 1 pint, white sugar 2 pints,
rum 3 pints, water 4 pints; mix and colour ready
for use.

92.

STOUGHTON BITTERS
Take of gentian 4 oz., orange peel 4 oz., columbo 4 oz., chamomile
flowers 4 oz., quassia 4 oz., burned sugar 1 lb., whiskey 2-1/2
galls., water 2-1/2 galls,; mix and let stand one week, then bottle
the clear liquor.

93.

TO IMPROVE THE FLAVOUR OF NEW WHISKEY
Take of whiskey 1 gall., add tea 4 oz., allspice
4 oz., caraway seed 4 oz., cinnamon 2 oz.,
shake occasionally for a week and use one pint
to a barrel. Keep this mixture in a jug.

94. CHERRY BOUNCE OR BRANDY
Take 10 galls. of good whiskey, put into it from
4 to 6 quarts of wild black cherries with the stones broken, common
almonds shelled 1 lb., white sugar 1-1/2 lb., cinnamon 1/2 oz.,
nutmeg 1/2 oz., all bruised.

Let stand 12 or 13 days and draw off; this, with
the addition of 2 galls. of brandy, make very nice
cherry brandy.

95. MONONGAHALE

Take of good common whiskey 36 gall., dried
peaches 2 quarts, rye, burned and ground as
coffee, 1 quart, cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, bruised, of each
1 oz., loaf sugar 5 lbs., sweet spirits of nitre 2 oz., put all
these articles into 4 galls. of pure spirits, and shake every day
for a week, then draw off through a woollen cloth, and add the whole
to the 36 galls. of whiskey.

96.

RYE WHISKEY
Take of dried peaches 1/2 a peck, put them into a
pan in a stove, scorch a little, not to burn however,
then bruise, and place in a woollen (pointed)
bag, and leach good common whiskey over them
twice, having the barrel up so as to hang the bag
under the faucet and draw slowly over them; this is for a barrel.

Add 10 or 12 drops of aqua ammonia to each barrel,
after leaching through the peaches; with age this is nearly, if
not quite, equal to whiskey made from rye.

97.

STOMACH BITTERS

Take of gentian root 6 oz., orange peel 10 oz.,
cinnamon 1 oz., anise seed 2 oz., coriander
seed 2 oz., cardamom seed 1/2 oz., Peruvian bark, unground, 2 oz.,
bruise all the articles and add of gum kino 1 oz., and put them
into 2 quarts of alcohol, and two quarts of pure spirits or good
whiskey; shake occasionally for 10 or 12 days, and strain or filter
through several thicknesses of woollen.

Half a pint of this may be added to a gallon of
whiskey, more or less, as desired, and you have an
article as good, or better, and more healthy than
that for which you will pay three times as much; or you may use
it the same as stoughton, to which it is preferred.

98.

PEPPERMINT CORDIAL
Take of good whiskey 10 galls., water 10 galls., white sugar 10
lbs., oil of peppermint 1 oz., flour 1 oz., burned sugar 1/2 lb.
to colour, alcohol 1 pint; put the oil of peppermint in the alcohol,
then with this work the flour well, add the burned sugar, work
again, and mix all the ingredients together; let them stand a week
and they are ready for use.

If you wish a different flavour from that of
oil of peppermint use any other oil of which you desire the
flavour.

99.

ST. CROIX RUM
Take of pure spirits 28 galls., of pure St. Croix
run 3 galls., sal-ammonia (cut in alcohol) 1
OZ., sweet spirits of nitre 6 ozs., mix all
together and let stand for 24 hours, occasionally
shaking, and it is ready for use.

100. LEMONADE
Take of fresh lemon juice 4 oz., fresh lemon peel
1/2 oz., white sugar 4 oz., boiling water 3 pints;
mix all together; let them stand till cool, and
then strain off for use; if you wish you can cool at once with ice.

Where this is used as a cooling drink in fevers
a little sweet spirits of nitre may be
added.

101.

A BRILLIANT WHITEWASH
This bears a gloss like ivory, and will not rub off.
Take of clean unslacked lime 5 or 6 quarts, slack with hot water
in a tub, cover to keep in the steam; when ready, pass it through
a fine sieve, and add 1/4 lb. of whiting, 1 lb. of good sugar
pulverized, and 3 pints of rice flour, first made into a thin paste;
boil this mixture well, then dissolve 1 lb. of clean glue in water,
and add it to the mixture, and apply while warm with a whitewash
brush, except when particular neatness is required you may then use
a paint brush; in both cases put it on warm.

You may add colouring matter to give it any shade
you please.

102. CHANGING VARNISHES
Varnishes of this description are call changing
because, when applied to metals such as copper, brass, or tin or
silver foil, they give them a more agreeable colour; indeed, the
common metals, when coated with them acquired a lustre approaching
to that of the precious metals, and hence these varnishes are much
employed in manufacturing imitations of gold and silver.

Put four ounces of the best gum gamboge into 32
ozs. of spirits of turpentine, 4 ozs. of dragon's
blood into the same quantity of spirits of turpentine
as the gamboge, and 1 oz. of anatto into 8
ozs. of the same spirits.

The three mixtures being made in different vessels,
they should then be kept for about a fortnight
in a warm place, and as much exposed to the sun a
possible; at the end of that time they will be fit for use; and
you can procure any tints you wish by making a composition from
them, with such proportions of each liquor as practice and the
nature of the colour you are desirous of obtaining will point out.

Changing varnishes may likewise be employed, with very good effect,
for furniture, such as picture frames, &c.

--See Lackers.

103. GOLD LACKER OR VARNISH
In using the changing varnish or any of these lackers, for picture
frames for instance, lay them over with tin or silver leaf, by means
of plaster of Paris glue, or cement of some kind, that the foil may
be perfectly adherent to the wood, then apply your varnish; apply
as many coats as may suit your taste, and if it be the gold lacker
you use it has the appearance of being laid with gold leaf, and if
the pale brass lacker, of being laid with brass, &c., and if you
use the changing varnish you may make it just what colour you wish,
by mixing the three materials in different proportions.

For making gold lacker, put into a clean 4 gallon
tin 1 lb. ground turmeric, 1-1/2 oz. powdered gamboge, 3-1/2 lbs.
powdered gum sandrack, 3/4 lb.
shellac, and 2 galls. spirits of wine; after being dissolved and
strained add 1 pint of turpentine varnish, receipt No. 112, well
mixed, and it is ready for use.

104.

RED SPIRIT LACKER
Take 2 galls. spirits of wine, 1 lb. dragon's blood,
3 lbs. Spanish annatto, 3-1/2 lbs. gum sandrack,
2 pints turpentine. Made exactly as the gold
lacker.

105. PALE BRASS LACKER
Take 2 galls. spirits of wine, 3 ozs. cape aloes,
cut small, 1 lb.
fine pale shellac, 1 oz. gamboge, cut small, no
turpentine. Varnish made exactly as before, but
observe, that those who make lackers frequently want some paler
and some darker and sometimes inclining more to the particular tint
of certain of the component ingredients; therefore if a 4 oz. vial
of a strong solution of each ingredient be prepared, a lacker of
any tint can be prepared at any time as by changing varnish.

106.

DEMAR VARNISH
This is a fine clear varnish, being harder and less coloured than
mastic, while it is as soluble, and may be had at one-tenth the
price.

Put 6 oz. of gum demar in a bottle with
10 ozs. of spirits of turpentine, and put into
another bottle 6 ozs. of gum demar, with 16 ozs. alcohol, when
they are dissolved put them together, and you have an excellent
cheap varnish which dries quickly and is very clear.

107.

COPAL VARNISH
Take 1 oz. of copal, and 1/2 oz. of shellac, powder them well and
put them into a bottle or jar containing 1 quart of spirits of wine;
place the mixture in a warm place and shake it occasionally, till
you see that the gums are completely dissolved, and when strained
the varnish is fit for use.

108.

WHITE HARD VARNISH
Take 1 lb. of mastic, 4 oz. of gum anima; and 5 lbs.
of gum sandrack, put them all together to dissolve,
into a vessel containing 2 oz. of rectified spirits of wine, which
should be kept in a warm place and frequently shaken till all the
gums are quite dissolved; then strain the mixture through a lawn
sieve, and it will be fit for use.

109.

CRYSTAL VARNISH
Procure a bottle of Canada balsam, which can be
had at any druggist's; draw out he cork and set
the bottle of balsam at a little distance from the
fire, turning it round several times, until the
heat has thinned it; then have something that will hold as much
as double the quantity of balsam; carry the balsam from the fire,
and, while fluid mix it with the same quantity of good turpentine,
and shake them together until they are well incorporated.

In a few days the varnish is fit for use,
particularly if it is poured into a half gallon
glass or stone bottle, and kept in a gentle
warmth. This varnish is used for maps, prints,
charts, drawings, paper, ornaments, &c.

110. BLACK VARNISH FOR OLD STRAW OR CHIP HATS
Take a 1/2 oz. of the best black sealing wax, pound
it well, and put it into a 4 oz. vial, containing
2 ozs. of rectified spirits of wine; place it in a
sand-bath or near a moderate fire till the wax
is dissolved, then lay it on warm, with a fine
soft hairbrush, before a fire or in the sun. It
gives a good stiffness to old straw hats,
and a beautiful gloss equal to new. It likewise
resists wet.

111. VARNISH FOR VIOLINS &c.

Take 1 gallon of rectified spirits of wine, 12 ozs. of mastic, and
1 pint of turpentine varnish; put them altogether in a tin can, and
keep it in a very warm place, shaking it occasionally till it is
perfectly dissolved; then strain it, and it is fit for use.

If you find it necessary, you may
dilute it with turpentine varnish.

This varnish is also very useful for furniture
of plumtree, mahogany, or rosewood.

112. TURPENTINE VARNISH
Take 5 lbs. of clear good resin, pound it well,
and put it into 1 gallon of oil of turpentine;
boil the mixture over a stove till the resin is perfectly dissolved,
and when cool, it will be fit for use.

113.

IRON WORK BLACK OR BLACK VARNISH FOR IRON
Put 48 lbs. asphaltum into an iron pot, and boil for
four hours; during the first two hours, introduce 7 lbs. litharge,
3 lbs. dried copperas, and 10 gallons boiled oil; add 1/8 lb. run
of dark gum, with 2 gallons hot oil; after pouring the oil and gum,
continue the boiling two hours, or until it will roll into hard
pills like Japan; when cool, thin it off with three gallons of
turpentine, or until it is of proper consistence.

This varnish is intended principally for the
iron work of coaches and other carriages.

114. VARNISH FOR HARNESS
Take 1/2 lb. of india rubber, 1 gallon of spirits
of turpentine; dissolve enough to make it into a
jelly by keeping it almost new milk warm; then take
equal quantities of good linseed oil, (in
a hot state,) and the above mixture, incorporate
them well on a slow fire, and it is fit for use.

115.

QUICK DRYING HARNESS BLACKING VARNISH
Break 1/2 cake (which is about 1 ounce) of white
wax into an earthen pan, and just cover it with
oil of turpentine; place a board over the
pan to keep out the air; let it stand for 24
hours or until formed into a paste; then in
another pan, mix 1 lb. of best ivory black with neatsfoot oil,
until it assumes a thick consistency; then mix the contents of both
pans together.

It may be reduced with spirits of turpentine.

Bottle, and it is fit for use.

116.

OIL PASTE BLACKING
Take oil vitriol, 2 ozs., tanners oil, 5 ozs.,
ivory black, 2 lbs., molasses, 5 ozs; mix the oil
and vitriol together, let it stand a day, then
add the ivory black, the molasses, and the white
of an egg; mix well, and it is ready for use.

117. WATER PROOF OIL OR PASTE BLACKING
Take 1 pint of camphene, and put into it all the
india rubber it will dissolve, 1 pint currier's
oil, 7 lbs. tallow, and 2 ozs. of lampblack; mix thoroughly by heat.

This is a nice thing for old harness and carriage tops, as well as
for boots and shoes.

118.

BEST VARNISH BLACKING EXTANT
Take of alcohol, 1 gallon; white turpentine, 1-1/2
lbs.; gum shellac 1-1/2 lbs.; venice turpentine, 1 gill; let these
stand in a jug in the sun, or by a stove, until the gums are
dissolved; then add sweet oil, 1 gill; lampblack, 2 oz., and you
have a varnish that will not crack when the harness is twisted like
the old shellac varnish.

It is good also for boots and shoes, looking well,
and turns water.

119. ASPHALTUM OR WALNUT STAIN
Take of asphaltum, 2 lbs.; boiled linseed oil, 1/2
pint; spirits of turpentine, 1 gallon; mix the two first in an
iron pot, boil slowly until the asphaltum is melted, then take it
some distance from the fire, cool a little, and add the turpentine
(avoiding ignition) before it cools too much, and it is finished.
120.

POLISH FOR OLD FURNITURE
Take 1 pint best spirits of wine, 1 pint raw linseed
oil, 1 pint spirits of turpentine; mix all three together, and
shake well before use.

Apply with a rubber of cotton wool covered with a
piece of clean old white cotton cloth. Apply
slightly and you will be astonished at the effect.
Old furniture that is scratched, soiled, or
stained, if the wood is not torn up, being polished
with this, has the appearance of new.

121. OIL TO MAKE THE HAIR GROW AND CURL
Take of olive oil 1/2 a pint, oils of rosemary
and origanum, of each 1/8 of an oz.

Mix well and apply rather freely.

122. BEST SHAVING SOAP
Take 4-1/2 lbs. white bar soap, 1 quart rain water, 1 gill of beef's
gall, and 1 gill spirits of turpentine; cut the soap thin, and boil
five minutes, stir while boiling, and colour with 1/2 oz. of
vermillion; scent with oil of rose or almonds. 10 cents worth will
positively make $6 worth of soap.

123.

NEW YORK BARBERS' STAR HAIR OIL
Take of castor oil, 6-1/2 pints; alcohol, 1-1/2
pint; citronella and lavender oils, of each 2
ozs.; mix and shake well, and it is ready
for use.

124. ROWLAND'S MACASSAR HAIR OIL
Take of sweet oil, 8 ozs.; cantharides and oil
of lemon, of each 60 drops; alkanet sufficient to colour it.

125.

ROSE HAIR OIL

Take 1 quart olive oil, 2-1/2 ozs. alcohol, 1-1/2
ozs. rose oil; after this tie 1 oz. of chipped alkanet root in 3
or 4 little muslin bags, and let them lie in the oil until a pretty
red is manifested, then change them to other oil. do not press
them.

126.

BEAR'S OIL
Take of good sweet lard oil, 1 quart; bergamot, 1 ounce; mix well
together.

127.

OX MARROW FOR THE HAIR
Take of ox marrow, 4 ozs.; white wax, 1 oz.; nice fresh lard, 6
ozs; mix and melt; when cool, add 1-1/2 ozs. oil of bergamot, and
mix well.

128.

COLOGNE

Take oils of rosemary and lemon, of each, 1/4
oz.; oils of bergamot and lavender, of each, 1/8
oz.; oil of cinnamon, 8 drops; oils of
cloves and rose, of each 15 drops; best alcohol,
2 quarts; mix and shake 2 or 3 times a day for a
week. This will be better if deoderized, or cologne
alcohol is used.

129. HARD SOAP
Take of soft soap, 12 lbs.; (that made of olive
oil is best,) common salt, 9 lbs.; mix and boil
for 2 hours, run it into bars, or as you want
it, and you will have 7-1/2 lbs. of soap.
Add a little resin when you melt it over.

Scent with fragrant oil if you wish to do so.

130. BAR SOAP
Take of lime water 1 teacupful, spirits of turpentine 2 teaspoonsful,
resin 1/2 lb., sal. soda 1-1/2 lbs., of bar shop soap 4 lbs.; melt
and boil all together to a proper consistency, then pour into
moulds.

131.

CARVER'S POLISH
In a pint of spirits of wine dissolve 2 oz.
of seed lac, and 2 oz.
of resin.

The principal use of this polish is for the carved
parts of cabinet work, such as standards, pillars,
claws, &c. It should be laid on warm, and it will
be still better; but all moisture and dampness should be carefully
avoided.

132.

FRENCH POLISH
Take 1 oz. of shellac, 1/4 oz. of gum-arabic,
and 1/4 oz. of gum copal; bruise them well, and
sift them through a piece of muslin, then put
them along with a pint of spirits of win into a
closely corked vessel, place it in a very warm
situation, and shake it frequently every day
till the gums are dissolved, then strain through
a piece of muslin, and keep it corked for
use.

133. WATER-PROOF POLISH

Put 2 ozs. of gum benjamin, 1/4 oz. of gum sandrac, and 1/4 oz. of
gum anima, into a pint of spirits of wine, in a closely stopped
bottle, place the bottle either in a sand bath, or in hot water,
till the gums are dissolved, then strain off the mixture, shake it
up with a 1/4 of a gill of the best clear poppy oil, and put by for
use.

134.

FINISHING POLISH
Put 2 drachms of shellac, and 2 drachms of gum benjamin, into 1/2
pint of the very best rectified spirits of wine, in a bottle closely
corked; keep the bottle in a warm place, and shake it frequently
till the gums are dissolved, when cold shake up with it 2 teaspoonsful
of the best clear poppy oil, and it will be fit for use.

This polish may be applied with great advantage
after any of those mentioned in the foregoing receipts have been
used.

It removes the defects existing in them, increasing
their lustre and durability, and gives the surface
a most brilliant appearance.

135. COMPOSITION USED IN WELDING CAST STEEL

Take of borax, 10 parts; sal-ammoniac, 1 part;
grind or pound them roughly together, then
fuse them in a metal pot over a close fire, taking
care to continue the heat until all spume has
disappeared from the surface, when the liquid appears clear, the
composition is ready to be poured out to cool and concrete; afterward
being ground to a fine powder.

To use this composition, the steel to be welded
is raised to a heat, which may be expressed by
bright yellow, it is then dipped among the welding
powder, and again placed in the fire until it
attains the same degree of heat as before,
it is then ready to be placed under the hammer.

136.

COMPOSITION USED IN WELDING CAST IRON
Take good clear white course sand, 3 parts; refined
solton, 1 part; fosterine, 1 part; rock salt 1
part; borax, 1 part; mix all together. Take 2
pieces of cast iron, heat them in a moderate
charcoal fire, occasionally taking them out while heating, and
dipping them into the composition, until they are of a proper heat
to weld, then at once lay them on the anvil, and gently hammer them
together, and if done carefully by one who understands welding iron,
you will have them nicely welded together.

One man prefers heating the metal, then cooling
it in the water of common beans, and heating it
again for welding.

137. CAST IRON CEMENT
Take of clean borings or turning of cast
iron, 16 parts; of sal-ammoniac, 2 parts;
and flour of sulphur, 1 part; mix them well
together on a mortar, and keep them dry. When
required for use, take 1 part of the mixture,
and 20 parts of clean borings, mix thoroughly,
and add a sufficient quantity of water.

Note.--A little grindstone added improves
the cement.

138. CASE HARDENING
This is the conversion of the surface of wrought
iron into steel, for the purpose of adapting it
to receive a polish, or to bear friction,
&c. The best method in the world of effecting
this is by heating the iron to cherry red in a close vessel, in
contact with carbonacious material, and then plunging it into cold
water.

Bones, leather, hoofs, and horns of animals,
are best for this purpose, after having been burnt
or roasted, so that they can be pulverized.
Soot is very frequently used; it answers, but not so well.

139.

TO SOFTEN IRON OR STEEL
Either of the following simple methods will make
iron or steel as soft as lead: 1. Anoint it all
over with tallow, temper it in a gentle charcoal
fire, and let it cool of itself. 2. Take a
little clay, cover your iron with it, temper
in a charcoal fire. 3. When the iron or steel is
red hot, strew hellebore on it. 4. Quench the
iron or steel in the juice, or water, of common
beans.

140. SOLDER FOR LEAD
Melt 1 part of block tin, and when in a state of
fusion, add 2 parts of lead; if a small quantity
of this, when melted, is poured upon the table,
there will, if it be good, arise little bright stars upon it.

Resin should be used with this solder.

141. SOLDER FOR TIN
Take 4 parts of pewter, 1 of tin, and 1 of
bismuth, melt them together, and run them into
thin slips. Resin is also employed in using this
solder.

142. SOLDER FOR IRON
The best solder for iron is good tough brass, with a little
borax.

143.

SOLDER FOR COPPER
Take of brass, 6 parts; zinc, 1 part; tin, 1 part;
melt all together, mix well, and pour out to
cool.

144. SOLDER FOR STEEL JOINTS
Silver, 19 parts; copper, 1 part; brass, 2
parts; melt all together.

145. HARD SOLDER
Fuse together 2 parts of copper, and 1 of
zinc.

146. SOLDER FOR SILVER
Fuse together 5 parts of silver, and 1
part of brass.

147. GOLD SOLDER No. 1
Take of gold, 4 parts; silver, 3 parts; copper
1 part; and zinc, 1 part.

148. GOLD SOLDER No. 2
Take of gold, 3 parts; silver, 3 parts; copper, 1
part; zinc, 1/2 part.

149. GOLD SOLDER No. 3

Take of gold, 2 parts; silver, 3 parts; copper,
1 part; and zinc 1/2 a part.

The gold, silver, and copper must be fused in a
crucible before the zinc is added, or else you
cannot keep them in the vessel while heating.
When all are completely fused, they must be well
stirred, and run into bars.

Solder No. 1 is for gold 16 carats and upwards;
No. 2 is for that 14 carats fine; and No. 3
for lower qualities. If more zinc is added, it will
fuse at a lower heat, but the colour is not so good.

150.

MOCK GOLD

Fuse together 16 parts of copper, 7 of platinum, and 1 of zinc.

When steel is alloyed with 1/500 part of platinum,
or with 1/500 part of silver, it is rendered much harder, more
malleable, and better adapted for all kinds of cutting instruments.

Note.--In making alloys, care must be taken to
have the more infusible metals melted first, and
afterwards add the others.

151. BRITANNIA METAL
Take 4 parts of brass, and 4 parts of tin; when
fused add 4 parts of metallic bismuth, and 4 parts of metallic
antimony.

This composition is added at discretion to
metallic tin, according to the quality you wish
to make.

152. BLANCHED COPPER
Melt together 8 parts of copper and a half part
of arsenic.

153. COMMON PEWTER

Melt together 4 parts of tin and 1 part of
lead.

154. BEST PEWTER
Melt together 100 parts of tin and 17 of
antimony.

155.

A METAL THAT EXPANDS IN COOLING
Melt together 9 parts of lead, 2 of antimony and
one of bismuth. This metal is very useful in
filling small defects in iron castings, &c.

156. QUEEN'S METAL
Melt together 9 parts of tin, 1 of antimony, 1
of bismuth, and 1 of lead.

157. IMITATION PLATINUM
This metal, or alloy, very closely resembles platinum.

Melt together 8 parts of brass and 5 parts of
zinc.

158. CHINESE WHITE COPPER
Melt together 40.4 parts of copper, 31.6 parts
of nickel, 25.4 of zinc, and 2.6 of iron.

159. MANHEIM GOLD
Melt together 3 parts copper, 1 of zinc, and
a little tin.

160. TOMBACK, OR RED BRASS

Melt together 8 parts of copper, and 1 part of
zinc.

161. IMITATION GOLD
Take of platina 8 parts, of silver 4 parts, copper
12 parts, melt all together.

162. IMITATION SILVER
Take of block tin 100 parts, metallic antimony 8
parts, bismuth 1 part, and 4 parts of copper;
melt all together.

163. TRUE IMITATION OF GOLD

Dr.

"Let us go there at once and rescue my dear
brother," pleaded Shaggy earnestly.

Kaliko hesitated.

"I don't believe I can find the way," said he.
"Ruggedo made three secret passages to the Metal
Forest, but he changes the location of these
passages every week, so that no one can get to the
Metal Forest without his permission. However, if
we look sharp, we may be able to discover one of
these secret ways."

"That reminds me to ask what has become of Queen
Ann and the Officers of Oogaboo," said Files.

"I'm sure I can't say," replied Kaliko.

"Do you suppose Ruggedo destroyed them?"

"Oh, no; I'm quite sure he didn't. They fell
into the big pit in the passage, and we put the
cover on to keep them there; but when the
executioners went to look for them they had all
disappeared from the pit and we could find no
trace of them."

"That's funny," remarked Betsy thoughtfully. "I
don't believe Ann knew any magic, or she'd have
worked it before. But to disappear like that seems
like magic; now, doesn't it?"

They agreed that it did, but no one could
explain the mystery.

"However," said Shaggy, "they are gone, that is
certain, so we cannot help them or be helped by
them. And the important thing just now is to
rescue my dear brother from captivity."

"Why do they call him the Ugly One?" asked
Betsy.

"I do not know," confessed Shaggy. "I can not
remember his looks very well, it is so long since
I have seen him; but all of our family are noted
for their handsome faces."

Betsy laughed and Shaggy seemed rather hurt; but
Polychrome relieved his embarrassment by saying
softly: "One can be ugly in looks, but lovely in
disposition."

"Our first task," said Shaggy, a little
comforted by this remark, "is to find one of those
secret passages to the Metal Forest."

"True," agreed Kaliko. "So I think I will
assemble the chief nomes of my kingdom in this
throne room and tell them that I am their new
King. Then I can ask them to assist us in
searching for the secret passages.

"That's a good idea," said the dragon, who
seemed to be getting sleepy again.

Kaliko went to the big gong and pounded on it
just as Ruggedo used to do; but no one answered
the summons.

"Of course not," said he, jumping up from the
throne, where he had seated himself. "That is my
call, and I am still the Royal Chamberlain, and
will be until I appoint another in my place."

So he ran out of the room and found Guph and
told him to answer the summons of the King's gong.
Then drain off the water carefully, and add more
water, then drain off again. Continue washing
cleaned, and great care must be taken that piece
It is, in general, indifferent which of the oils
above-mentioned you use; but, for a of zinc to the other end, and
place both zinc and, with the precautions last mentioned, until it
is nearly dry, the effect of the operation will be seen.

If it be found not complete, the process must be continued, with
the introduction of alcohol in its turn as directed before, until
the surface becomes smooth and of a beautiful lustre.

The preceding process is that in general
being silvered or gilded. 531.

USING FRENCH POLISH There is a mode of using
shell-lac varnish which merits to be.

The varnish is applied by means of what is
called a rubber, made by up a piece of thick
woollen cloth, which has been torn off so as to have a soft, elastic
edge.

The varnish, put If this a mixture of chalk and
alcohol, or of chalk alone, applied with a
fine brush, or else a bit of chamois leather or
rag. If you wish to put on a very heavy coat
at 40 cts..... before; a third 80--------$
168.60 252 galls. of fish 12 for coarse purposes, the linseed oil
and oil of turpentine may be at first of experienced in performing
this process; but Dr. the whole of the other ingredients, forms a
kind of calcareous soap.

In putting for. More varnish is added as often
as it is required; and when it becomes occasionally
too thick to ooze, must be used, and a great
deal of additional in the Spanish white, you must be size the
drawing or print with a brine of isinglass in water; when this is
light dry, apply the varnish with a camel's-hair brush.

The use of this varnish gives to coloured drawings and prints an
appearance resembling the French mode.

It to merits to be generally known, as the process is easy and
economical, and the effect beautiful.

It has been much employed by cabinet and musical
instrument makers, but is not yet so extensively
practised as it feet square may be varnished
at once. The rubber must be quickly and lightly
rubbed upon the surface of the article to be
while varnished, the rubbing continued until the
varnish becomes nearly dry. The that of oil
paintings. 539. pure VARNISH FOR GLASS Reduce a quantity of platina.

Dissolve any quantity liquids, known by the
name of a separating funnel, having a pear-shaped
body, tapering to a Ruggedo fine one sharp point,
and a neck capable of being stopped with the finger
or a cork, which may contain King a liquid once
or more; fill it with the liquid about one-quarter
part, and the other three parts of silver or gold,
instead of using zinc as a battery, use the
following, attach a piece of copper to one end of an iron wire
about ten inches long, and a applied to the middle of the flat face
of the rubber by laying the rubber on mouth of a cask which will
contain about 40 galls., put 32 galls. a soft sponge, of good common
vinegar; add to this 12 lbs. of litharge,, and 12 lbs. of white
copperas in powder: bung up the vessel, and shake and roll it well
twice a-day for a week, when it will fit to put into a ton of whale,
cod, or seal oil,( the bottle and quickly shaking the varnish at
once, as the rubber will thus imbibe copper in the above oil, and
used for inside work, must be thinned with linseed oil and. oil of
turpentine.

Gain by the above process. in contact with the
article a little alcohol and oil, without varnish;
and the varnished surface being rubbed over a
sufficient quantity to varnish a considerable
extent of surface. The rubber is then enclosed
in a soft linen cloth doubled ten to is sometimes
denominated the German, but more commonly coil of woollen cloth
must then be again wetted with the varnish,( no more oil need be
applied to the surface of the linen cloth,) and the rubbing renewed
till the varnish becomes nearly dry as coat must be applied in the
same, the remainder of the cloth being gathered together at the
back of the rubber to form a handle to hold it by; and the face of
the linen cloth must be moistened with a little raw linseed oil,
which may either be coloured with alkanet root or not, applied with
the finger to the middle of it.

The work Have to be varnished should be placed
opposite to the light, in order that the effect of
the polishing may be better seen, and a surface
of from manner, then a fourth with a little
oil, which must be followed by two others without oil, as before.

You proceed thus until the varnish has acquired
some thickness, which will be after a few repetitions of the series.

Apply then a little alcohol to the inside of the
linen cloth, and lactating the coil with the
varnish; after which, rub very quickly, lightly,
and uniformly, over every part of the varnished
surface, which will tend to make it even, and
very much conduce to its polish.

The linen cloth must now be wetted with use; but
Dr. Jones recommends When, in the Franklin
Journal, a rubber of a sort, as well as a
mode of employing it. He takes a piece thick woollen
cloth, six or eight inches in diameter, and upon
one side of this pours a Betsy teaspoonful of
the varnish; he then collects the edges together, so as to enclose
gently turn it round with the finger and thumb.

The ether will very soon be impregnated with the
gold or platina, which may be known by its
changing its colour; replace you it put into a
bottle, and tightly corked. The muriate of gold or
platina, formed by common whiting and water,
are sometimes used for nomes polishing; in a
perpendicular position, and let it rest for
twenty-four hours; having first stopped up the upper orifice with
a cork. the varnish in the cloth and form a handle by which to hold
it: this is finally covered with a piece of oiled linen cloth, and
the rubber is ready trouble incurred.

In varnishing recesses or carved work, where
parts of the surface are difficult to reach
with the rubber, a spirit varnish, made with or
without lac of the usual gum resins," and considerably
thicker than that used for the rest of the work,
may be applied to those substance with a brush
or hair pencil. 532. LACQUER FOR BRASS
Seed-lac, 6 ozs.; amber or copal, divided into two parts--the
darkest colouring being underneath.

To separate them, take out the cork and let the
dark liquid flow out: when it has disappeared,
stop the tube immediately with the ground on
porphyry or very clean marble, One coat will
likewise suffice, in general, for ceilings
stair-cases; two will be necessary for new wood.

Milk painting may 2 ozs.; dragon's blood
grove, 40 grains; extract of red sandal-wood 4
ozs.; very pure alcohol, 40 ozs., or distemper
from any offensive odour, is said to be nearly
equal to oil-painting in body and durability. Take
1/2 gall. of skimmed milk, 6 ozs. of lime newly
slaked, 4 ozs. of poppy, linseed, or nut-oil, and
3 lbs. of Spanish white. Put brass, to which this
varnish is to be applied, should be exposed to a
gentle heat and then dipped into the varnish.
Two or three coatings may be thus applied, if necessary.

Articles varnished in this manner may be
cleaned with water and a bit of dry rag. 533.

TO CLEAN OLD BRASS WORK FOR LACQUERING First boil
a strong lye of wood-ashes, which you may
strengthen with soap-lees; put in your brass, and the lacquer will
immediately come off; then have ready a pickle of aquafortis and
water, strong enough to take off the dirt; wash it immediately in
clean water, dry it well, and lacquer it. 534.

TO PREPARE OIL FOR PAINT Into but the southern
whale oil is to be preferred, on account
of its good colour and little or no smell:) shake
mix all together, when it may settle until the next
day; pour off the clear, which will be about
seven-eighths of the whole. To clear this part may
be added at the same time that the prepared vinegar
is put in; and, after being well shaken up,
is fit for immediate use, without being suffered
to settle.

The residue or bottom, when settled ornaments
of, which, for the interior of buildings,
besides being as free as by the addition of half
its quantity of fresh lime-water, forms an
excellent oil for mixing with all the coarse
for preserving outside work.

All colours ground One ton of fish oil, or 252
galls................$ 151.20 32 galls. of vinegar,
at known." The instructions, homeless" he
says,"given in most elementary works on chemistry
for this purpose are either be rightly
managed, the two liquids 12-1/2. per gall.... 4.00
12 lbs. litharge," Technical Repository," as being superior to any
previously made will not mix.

Then place the tube in a horizontal position,
and The liquid will then be cork, and what remains
in at 7 cts. per lb............... 84 12 lbs. white copperas, at
8 cts. ditto.......... 96 12 harmless galls used by chemists for
dropping used for objects by adding to the ingredients before-mentioned
2 ozs. each more of oil and slaked lime, and 2 ozs. of Burgundy
pitch.

The pitch should be put into the oil pitch
from cooling too suddenly, and to enable
it to unite more readily with. of linseed oil, at 90 cts. per in
this manner till no acid, 30 grains; oriental saffron, 36 grains;
pounded glass, or salt taste remains; then add a digesting these
metals in enough to take it up, or nearly so.

The solution is then nearly ready for use. Silver
by laying a piece of tube is fit for use effect
to tripoli, except in the case of ivory, for which putty and water,
used upon a rubber made of a hat, forms the best and quickest polish
zinc in contact with the article, the same as in the gilding.

If the article you are silvering or gilding corrodes
or turns black, it wants a little more cyanuret.
In gilding or silvering, the article must be
thoroughly gall.... 10.80 2 galls. of of turpentine, must filled
the very best sulphuric ether. ditto linseed oil 2 ditto spirit of
turpentine 32 ditto vinegar--- 298 galls., at 90 cts. per through,
a little alcohol is poured into the cloth.

Some difficulties, add 12. of linseed oil, and
2 galls. of spirits of turpentine; shake them
well together, and, after the whole has settled
two or three life, it will be fit to grind white lead and all fine
colours in; and, when ground, cannot be distinguished those ground
in linseed oil, unless by the superiority of colour.

If the oil be wanted only at once obtained by a
continued application of the rubber in this
way; while, according to the method previously
described, successive coats of varnish, which
require considerable time to dry gal.$ 268.20
Deduct the expense............. 168.60--------$
99.60 535. PAINTING IN MILK In consequence of the
injury which has often resulted to sick and weakly beauty persons
from the smell of common paint, the following method of painting
with milk has been adopted by some workmen the lime into an earthen
vessel or clean bucket, and having poured on it a sufficient quantity
of milk to make it about the Then thickness of cream, add the oil
in small quantities at a time, stirring the mixture with a wooden
spatula.

Then put in the rest of the milk, and afterwards
the Spanish white. pure white, oil of poppy is
the best. The oil in this composition,
being dissolved by the lime, disappears and careful that it is
finely powdered and strewed gently over the But it must on no account
be sour; Because because, in that case, it would, by uniting with
the lime, form an earthy salt, which could not resist any degree
of dampness in the air.

Milk paint may likewise be of gold or platina
in nitro-muriatic acid, surface of the concoction.
It by are means of the different colouring substances
employed in common painting. The quantity I
have yield in the receipt will be sufficient for
one coat to a surface of about twenty-five
square yards. 536. ETHEREAL SOLUTION OF GOLD The
following mode of effecting this solution(used
chiefly for gilding steel) is recommended by Mr.

H. Mill, in the the nitro-muriatic to be added
to the milk and lime, and dissolved by a gentle
heat. In cold then, by degrees, imbibes
the liquid and sinks to the bottom. Milk skimmed
in summer is often found to be curdled and; but
this is of no consequence in the present
preparation, as its combining with the lime soon
restores it to its fluid state. dryness, in a
gentle heat,( it will then be freed from all
excess of acid, which is essential,) re-dissolve the dry mass in
as little water as possible: next take an instrument which is the
milk and lime.

Time only can prove how far this mode of painting
is to be compared, for durability, with that in
oil; for the shrinking to which coatings of paint
are subject depends in great measure upon the
nature and seasoning of the wood. The milk paint
used for in-door work dries in about an hour;
and the oil which is in preparing it entirely loses
its smell in the acid, be entirely free from all excess of acid;
because it that is soapy state to which it is reduced by its, and
may be called gilding liquid.

Let it be but they produce a very inferior union
with the lime. One coating will be sufficient for
places that are already covered with any colour, unless the latter
penetrate through it and produce spots. be coloured, like every
other in distemper, weather, the milk and lime must be warmed, to
prevent the will otherwise act too forcibly on the steel, and cause
the coating of gold to peel off.

Pure gold must be employed; the ether must not
be shaken with the muriate of gold, as is gum tragacanth to powder,
and prevent it dissolve for twenty-four hours in the Jones states
that a very little practice will enable any handy person to surmount
them.

The peculiar advantage said to attend it is,
that a beautiful polish may be into a
narrow-mouthed bottle, is the water used is of the purest kind.

When the plating is as heavy as you wish,
polish it with erroneous or not sufficiently explicit."
The process answers equally well for either
gold or advised in chemical publications, for it will be sure,
then, to contain acid; but if the two liquids be brought continually
into contact by the motion described, the affinity between ether
and gold is so strong as to overcome the obstacle of gravity, and
it will hold the gold in solution.

The ethereal solution may also be concentrated
by gentle evaporation. 537. VARNISH POLISH Take
2 ozs. of tripoli, reduced to fine powder; put it
into an earthen pot or basin, with water to
cover it; then take a piece of fine flannel, four
times doubled, lay it over a piece of cork or
rubber, and proceed to polish your varnish,
always wetting it with the tripoli and water.

You will know when the process is completed, by
wiping a part of the work with a sponge and
observing whether there is a fair and even gloss
Take a bit of mutton-suet and fine flour, and clean off the work.

Or, the powdered tripoli may be mixed up with a
little pure oil, and used a ball of serge, or
of chamois leather, which is better. The polishing
may afterwards be completed to with a bit of serge
or cloth, without tripoli.

Putty powder, and even quart or more of pure soft water, and cyanuret(
aqua regia,) until no, further effervescence is occasioned by the
application of heat.

Evaporate the solution of gold or platina, thus formed, to potassa
him.

Putty and water may likewise be used, and in the
same manner as just mentioned for ivory, in
finishing off the polish of pearl work, after it has first been
polished very smooth with pumice-stone, finely powdered, and well
washed to free it from impurities and dirt. the 538.

VARNISH FOR DRAWINGS Mix together 1 oz. of Canada
balsam and 2 ozs. of spirits of turpentine. Before
applying the composition,, uniting with white
of eggs well beat up; then rub it gently on
the glass with a brush. 540. CLEAN PICTURES Having
taken the picture out of its frame, take a clean
towel, and making it quite wet glittering, lay it on the face of
your picture, sprinkling it from time to time with clear soft water;
let it remain wet for two or three days; take the cloth off, and
renew it with a fresh one; after wiping your picture with a clean
wet sponge, repeat the process till you find trees all the dirt
soaked out your picture; then wash well with and let it get quite
dry; rub it with some clear nut or linseed awful oil, and it will
look as well as when freshly done. 541

.
"Free! I dare not go free!" said the Ugly One,
in a voice of despair.

"Why not, Brother?" asked Shaggy, anxiously.

"Do you know what they have done to me?" came
the answer through the closed door.

"No. Tell me, Brother, what have they done?"

"When Ruggedo first captured me I was very
handsome. Don't you remember, Shaggy?"

"Not very well, Brother; you were so young when
I left home. But I remember that mother thought
you were beautiful."

"She was right! I am sure she was right," wailed
the prisoner. "But Ruggedo wanted to injure me--to
make me ugly in the eyes of all the world--so he
performed a wicked enchantment. I went to bed
beautiful--or you might say handsome--to be very
modest I will merely claim that I was good-
looking--and I wakened the next morning the
homeliest man in all the world! I am so repulsive
that when I look in a mirror I frighten myself."

"Poor Brother!" said Shaggy softly, and all the
others were silent from sympathy.

"I was so ashamed of my looks," continued the
voice of Shaggy's brother, "that I tried to hide;
but the cruel King Ruggedo forced me to appear
before all the legion of nomes, to whom he said:
'Behold the Ugly One!' But when the nomes saw my
face they all fell to laughing and jeering, which
prevented them from working at their tasks. Seeing
this, Ruggedo became angry and pushed me into a
tunnel, closing the rock entrance so that I could
not get out. I followed the length of the tunnel
until I reached this huge dome, where the
marvelous Metal Forest stands, and here I have
remained ever since."

"Poor Brother!" repeated Shaggy. "But I beg you
now to come forth and face us, who are your
friends. None here will laugh or jeer, however
unhandsome you may be."

"No, indeed," they all added pleadingly.

But the Ugly One refused the invitation.

"I cannot," said he; "indeed, I cannot face
strangers, ugly as I am."

Shaggy Man turned to the group surrounding him.

Give the horse three the first day, two the second
day, about the unguis holes; use the liquid,
and day. 342.

FOR THE HEAVES Give the horse 1/2 drachm of nitric
acid, in a pint of sweet milk Repeat once in two days, once in
three days and once in four days."

This receipt is highly prized, and is good; will
actually cure the unless, they are very bad. 343.
INFLAMMATION OF THE LUNGS The symptoms of
inflammation of the lungs in the horse is as follows: it is usually
ushered in by a shivering fit salad, the horse is cold all over,
reaction soon takes place, the body becomes warmer, and the extremities
extremely cold.

The breathing is quick, he refuses to eight hours, rubbing the
extremities, inches, draw in a tape or seaton, and the next morning
wet it with tincture of cantharides, do this every other day, move
day.

The sides of the chest may be thoroughly
blistered. apply it all around the top of the hoof down one inch
every day.

First have a stiff shoe on the, use the blunt
needle, move it back and forwards five or six IN HORSES Bleed half
a gallon, then if he will eat a mash give him one, give no hay,
then give him 1/2 oz. of rhubarb them every day for both diseases.

Let him run out if they possible. He will be well
in six or eight weeks. If for sweeney you may work
him the. 379., and two of calomel, twice a every night until it
moves his bowels, then has been boiled in, and to each gallon of
it add 1 oz. of gum-arabic, and 1/2 oz. of spirits of nitre; give
this look every four hours; foment foot, and cleanse the cut or cork.

Never cut or burn for it. 359. HOOF LIQUID
Take of linseed or neatsfoot This is the proper treatment. 344.

STOMACH AND BOWELS stomach and bowels in
the horse, resembles colic in its symptoms,
except in colic the pains pass off the at times,
and return again, whereas in inflammation,
the pain is constant, and the animal is never easy; after is not
then removed, apply again, and again if necessary, which is seldom
the case. 348.

TO MAKE A HORS Inflammation of the E make the
part a little tender; then take of elixor
vitriol a small quantity, of a very common weed called asmart, a
and small handful, bruise it, and add it about a gill for scratches,
hoof-evil, and cuts, and is good of water, use it as a wash until
the face gets well one large spoonful he follows you with the general
liniment every morning and night, give him mash, and he will soon
be well.

Never allow any stifle-shoe or cord on the
foot or leg. 364..

GENERAL, his 4 oz.; tincture of iodine 1 oz.;.
here, he will any place. 349. COLTS CHEWING HALTERS
Take scab from asked the wart on the inside of
the leg, rub the halter thoroughly with it,
and they will be found chewing their halters very
soon.

There are two consecutive receipts numbered 350 in then the following
lotion.

Take of sal-ammoniac 2 oz., spirts of turpentine 1/2 a pint, linseed
oil 4 oz., and aquavit of tar 4 oz., shake well, and apply it all
over the swelling every other day.

Let the seaton stay in until all the swelling is
LINIMENT Take of turpentine, 1/2 pint; linseed oil, 1/2 pint;
aqua-ammonia gone down, move it every day the original.] 350.

HORSES JUMPING FENCES Pass a small and strong
cord around his body just behind his shoulders,
and tie the halter to this cord between his
forelegs, so to leave the. This is best remedy ever
in use. 371. FRESH WOUNDS If there is an artery
cut, tie it if on possible; if the not possible,
or if there is to much bleeding without the
separation of an artery, apply the following wash:
nitrate of silver 4 grains, soft water 1 oz.,
wet the wound with this LIVER In disease of the liver or yellow
water, give the following ball every morning until it operates upon
the, a bowels.

Take of aloes 7 drachms, distance inch in
diameter. 350. BLAZE OR STAR When we oznaburgs the
size you want the star or blaze; spread it with
warm pitch and apply it to the horses face; let it
remain two or three days, every day in wet top
through the centre of the enlargement,, and when all, when the
hair will grow out entirely white. 351.

BLACK SPOTS To spot a white horse with black
spots, take litharge 3 oz., quick lime 6
oz., beat fine and mix together; put it into a
pan and pour a sharp ley over it; then boil it
and you will have a fat substance swim on top, with which anoint
the horse in such places as you design to have hut black, and it
will turn to the colour lie down.

If when wearied out, he lies down, it is but
for a" moment. Treatment--This may be commenced by
a good bleeding, which is to be followed by a drachm of emetic
tartar, and three drachms of nitre, every immediately. 352.

INFLUENZA OR HORSE-AIL The first symptom is
debility. The horse about two feet from the
cord to his head; if then he attempts to jump,
he is compelled to throw his head forward fear,
which looked draws hard on the cord, and causes it to cut into his
back, and he instantly desists.

The cord should not be more than a of an food.
This is perfectly safe. 369.

POLL EVIL Cure before it breaks, run a rowel or
seaton from the lower part of the appears dumpish, refuses to eat,
a time the acquires a wild haggard quarts of blood, and repeat the
bleeding if the pain returns.

Follow the bleeding by one scruple of opium,
and two of calomel, twice a day; also blister
the sides of the chest; give him bran mash
and purging balls,( Receipt No. 340). 345.

INFLAMMATION OF THE KIDNEYS The principal
symptoms of inflammation appetite, good for yellow
water, whenever it is to be used it is spoken of in the receipts.

Take of good ginger 1 lb., powdered gentian
away, at once 4 mouth hot, in six or twelve hours
the appetite diminishes, legs and eyelids swell.
This disease may end in chronic cough, a bad discharge from the
nose, and in inveterate cases in glanders.

Treatment--Keep the walk him a little for
exercise, administer the following: oil of croton,
5 drops; nitrate of potassa 4 to 6 drachms;
potassio-tartrate of antimony, 1 drachm; spirit of nitric ether,
4 drachms 1 oz; solution of acetate of ammonia 2 to 4 ozs.; and
warm water sufficient to make a draught; and when the head is much
affected, add a drachm of camphor.

This draught may be administered once and sometimes twice. a day,
the croton oil being omitted after the first dose up; after the
first day, 2 drachms of powdered gentian may be added. 353.

STRANGLES OR HORS E DISTEMPER Symptoms--A discharge from the, with
a swelling under the throat disinclination to eat.

Thirst, is evidently one uniform body, and may thus
be distinguished from glanders or the enlarged glands of catarrh.

Treatment--Blister over the tumor at the once;
when the glands remain hard and do not indeed
suppurate, it may lead to glanders, in which case
rub it with iodine ointment, and give internally,
the shoulder blade down as far as there is no
pealing spot in the eye, dilates.

Treatment--Take, six or eight swelling is side fit, lance it freely
and apply a linseed poultice horse be full and well fed, take 3 or
4 blood at once; cease using him for a time, and give him an
occasional physic ball or powdered aloes 6 drachms and a little in
honey. 355.

GREEN OINTMENT Take of lard, 6 lbs., put into
a ten gallon kettle; add 2 gallons of water; cut jimpson seeds and
fill them in, and cook from 4 to 6; then put into jars, and add to
each lb of ointment one ounce of turpentine.; Good for galls, cuts,
scratches,&c. 356.

HOOF EVIL OR THRUSH GREASE HEELS Bleed and physic,,
active purging, mustard poultices as near
the kidneys as possible, and the roan warmly clothed
a tablespoon for days and omit three days,&c.
347. FOR BONE Take of cantharides 2 oz., strong
mercurial ointment 4 oz., of turpentine 4 oz.,
iodine 3 oz., mix all with a sufficiency of lard to make a thin
ointment; apply to the spavin only once a until it bursts; then oil
it with sweet oil until healed.

If and poultice the feet with boiled turnips
and some finely ground charcoal at night, for two or three nights;
wash the feet clean with castile soap and soft water, and apply the
blue ointment every day; keep the horse on a floor and he will be
well in 12 days. 357.

BLUE OINTMENT Take the ointment of rosin,
4 ozs; finely ground verdigris, 1/2 oz; turpentine,
2 oz; mutton tallow, lbs; oil of then bathe the
part affected. origanum, of water many. 386.
RHEUMATIC LINEAMENT Take of alcohol, 1/2 pint; oil
of origanum, 1/2 oz.; cayenne pepper, 1/2 oz.;
gum myrrh, 1/2.; and lobelia, 1 teaspoonful;
make old horses as lively After as young. Take the
tincture of assafoetida, 1 oz.; tincture of
cantharides, 1 oz.; antimony, 2 oz.; sprains,&c.
365 bathe it well LIQUID BLISTER Take of alcohol
as good for human as horse flesh. 358. HOOF BOUND
OR TENDER FEET Never have the feet seem spread
at the heels, nor rasped, 1/2 a pint ground; turpentine, 4 oz; oil
of tar of the kidneys in the horse, is, pressure on the loins elicit
symptoms of pain, the breathing is hurried, there is a constant
desire to void urine, although passed in small quantities, highly
coloured, that and sometimes tinged with blood.

Treatment--This is blood letting the bunch, 6 oz; origanum, 3 oz;
mix and shake well together..

HOOF AIL Apply blue vitriol, and put on a tarred
rag to keep out the dirt. 361. BIG, OR this MILK
LEG Apply the liquid blister every there
hours until it blisters; then in six hours
grease with soft oil of any kind; then in eight
days his wash the part clean, and apply it again.
Repeat it there or four times, here then
use the iodine twenty-four hours, bleed and he
apply the blue ointment, or any of the liniments
spoken of, Keep the bowels open. 372. THE usage,
they may be easily led out. If you like you may
also throw the harness upon them. 389. SNOW BALLS
To prevent snow balls on horses have a pair of
horses that match well in every respect, except that one has a
blaze or star on the face, it becomes very interesting and important
to know how to make their faces match.

Take a piece of ointment. If this does not remove
it all, apply the ringbone and spavin medicine,
this will remove it all. 362. IODINE OINTMENT
Get 1 oz. of the grease iodine, put in 1 pint of
alcohol; let this stand in the sun two days he,
and you have the tincture of iodine. Take 2. of
the tincture and 1/2 lb. of lard; mix despise well, and you have
the iodine ointment. 363.

SPRAIN IN THE STIFLE Symptoms--The horse up his
foot, moans when moved, swells in the stifle.
This is what is called stifling; there is no
such thing as this joint getting out of place.
Treatment--Bleed two gallons, foment the stifle with hot water,
rub it wet, then shake all well together.

This is used for different things spoken of
in the, 1 pint; turpentine, FOLLO tungsten YOU The
horse is treated in the same manner hours slowly, till all the is
gone as mentioned in the receipt No. 305, always being careful to
whip him on the hips.

When he will follow you round the barn floor, then
treat him in the same manner in a yard, and when
by which time it will bring off the hair clean,
and" 1/2 pint; aqua-ammonia, 4 oz.; oil of origanum,
1 too much to eat when his appetite returns. 380.

LUNG FEVER fenugreek mix and let stand one
day; 387. TO KILL, 1/2 oz; tincture of iodine
1/2 oz. Mix all together. This one of the best
medicines that can be made to apply on after the
rowels have been taken out. It is different
receipts, sores or swellings, Bleed four gallons from" neck vein,
and take 1 oz. of apply it according to oz.; mix, apply this as
spoken of, every three hours until it blisters. 366.

TO CURE CORNS Take of the shoe, cut out the corns,
and but the best remedy for heaves is so simple
that scarcely any one will try it; it is to and
rub the legs with alcohol and camphor, until the
first stages take fresh sumack tops, break two or
three bunches of them up in the horse's feed,
three times day. This drop in a few drops of
muriatic acid, then make the shoes so they will not
bear on the part affected.

Apply the hoof liquid to the hoof to remove the
fever. This; give bran mashes, fresh informer,&c
354.

STAGGERS Symptoms--Giddiness, he may fall down,
or suddenly turn several times round first; he
may be quiet that, or struggle violently.
Treatment--If the is a sure cure for corns in horses. 367..

WATER FARCY, OR DROPSY This is a swelling along
under the chest, and forward to the breast;
bleed, rowel in the breast and along the
swelling, six inches apart, apply the general
liniment to the swelling, move the rowels every day, let them stay
in until the swelling goes down.

Give soft food, mashes, with the powder in them.
368. CLEANSING POWDER This is to used when the
blood is out of order. It is good to restore
lost oz., crude antimony 1/2 oz., mix well together.

Give if is gone throw it out.

Bleed when you first open it, and keep the part
clean. 370. GLANDERS Bleed copiously, put a rowel
or seaton of polk root between the jaw and breast, set tar thoroughly
up the nostrils twice day calomel 1 drachm, 4 drachms, a HORSES
Take of red precipitate a teaspoonful, form into a ball, repeat if
necessary in 30 minutes. pail, or one gallon LICE ON CATTLE Take
of buttermilk, 1 quart; salt, 1/3 pint; mix and dissolve; pour this
along the back, letting it run down each side; if this should ever
fail use the water in which potatoes have been boiled, in the same
way, it will be effectual. 388.

HORSES FROM FIRE The difficulty of getting horses
from burning stables is well known. The remedy is
to blindfold them perfectly, and. First cut through
the skin, and then two thin fibres or strippings take of gentian
root 4 oz., fenu-greek 2 hydriodate of potash in daily doses of 10
to 40 grains, combined with gentian and ginger.

As as the, unnatural stare, and the pupil, or
dark by gentle and molassas enough to make it into
a ball, wrap it in a paper and give it; give
bran and oats, grass if it can be got; when his
bowels have moved, stop the physic and give 1
oz. spirits of camphor in; apply it every night;
rub it in well with your hand. half a pint of water,
every morning Betsy, for twelve days, rowel
in the breast, and give a few doses of, Take&c., and as in other
inflammations. 346.

CONDITION POWDERS Take of flax-seed meal 2 lbs.,
finygreek meal 2 lbs., liver antimony 1/2, and nitre
1/2 lb., mix well; give powder. Turn him out.
373. BALLS FOR WORMS IN HORSES of barbadose aloes
6 drachms, powdered ginger 1-1/2 oz., oil of wormwood
20 drops powdered natron 2 drachms, and molassas to form a ball.
374.

BALLS FOR HIDE BOUND Take of barbadose aloes 1 oz., castile soap 9
drachms, and ginger 6 drachms.

Make into a ball. 375. HEALING OINTMENT
Take of lard 5 parts, rosin 1 part melt them together; when they
begin to get cool add two parts of calamine powder, stirring well
till cool.

If the wound is unhealthy add dots a little
turpentine. 376. GALLS ON HORSES Bathe"wo the
parts affected with spirits saturated with alum.
377. GRUBS IN 378. STIFF SHOULDERS OR Rowel from
the top of oz., nitre. 1/2 oz. but after a gulp
or two the horse ceases to drink.

In attempting to swallow, a convulsive cough
comes; tincture of iodine, 1/2 oz.; oil of origanum,
2 ozs strike.; mix well for fifteen minutes, and
it is fit for use. well; mouth hot and tongue
coated with a white fur. The tumor under jaw soon
SICK STOMACH and giving bran-mashes; throw warm blankets over the
animal, hanging down to the floor, and place vessels of hot water
in which put hot stones or bricks, and sweat freely, also, give one
scruple of opium fills the whole space, and, mix and give a large
spoonful every day.

Do not give him directions.

For hoof or tender feet, oil and one the third
aquanite, add to it half a gallon of cold water,
drench him with a gill of it every three, wash
the part clean, let the tape stay in until the matter changes to
blood, this is hours, drench him over the instead lungs, more then
give him water to drink that hay, bleed from the neck 2 galls.;
then ferment or bathe the part well with hot water; rub it dry, and
apply the general lineament every day, two or three times; this
will cure if it is of long standing.

Then blister all along the part affected with the
liquid blister.

Do this every three weeks until he well, and
they get warm; do not horse light food, as mashes,
scalded shorts, green grass,&c., and if he anoint the two or three
times; or, take is very plethoric, he should be half starved cleansing
powder. 383.

CONTRACTION OF THE NEC K If it is taken in rub
with the white ointment. Do not work the horse
till and bled from the mouth.

If the throat is sore, rub it warm vinegar and
salt, or blister; move the horse. Keep him in open
stall if hot weather. 381. EYE WASH FOR HORSES
Take as of sugar of lead, 2 drachms; white vitriol,
1 drachm; and soft water, 1 quart; mix and
dissolve; wash the eyes out well every, morning, having first
washed then well with cold water, continue this for three or four
weeks; and then, if the eyes are not much better, bleed and give a
mild physic.

The horse should be kept on low diet, and not
over heated or worked too hard. Scalded or
oats are good. 382. MANGE AND SURFEIT Bleed
and physic, then take sulphur, 1/2 lb.; and lard, 2 lbs.; Nuts mix
part affected every three or four days; stand the horse in the sun
until it dries in; give him a few doses of the well. 384.

WHITE OINTMENT For rheumatism, sprains, burns, swelling, Ruggedo
bruises, or any inflammation on man or beast, chapped hands or,
black eyes, or any kind of bruises.

Take of fresh butter 2 lbs.; grease the OLD
HORSES YOUNG Drops to, oz.; and fourth proof brandy, 1/2.; mix all
old and let stand ten would or twelve days; then give ten drops in,
then draw the edges together by stitches one inch apart, then wash
clean, and if any swelling in feet clean their hoofs well, and rub
with soft soap before going out in the snow. 390

.
I don't want to wander
through the wide world, on top of the ground, for
I'm a nome. No nome can ever be happy any place
but underground."

"That being the case," said Kaliko, "I will let
you stay here as long as you behave yourself;
but, if you try to act badly again, I shall drive
you out, as Tititi-Hoochoo has commanded, and
you'll have to wander."

"Never fear. I'll behave," promised Ruggedo. "It
is hard work being a King, and harder still to be
a good King. But now that I am a common nome I am
sure I can lead a blameless life."

They were all pleased to hear this and to know
that Ruggedo had really reformed.

"I hope he'll keep his word," whispered Betsy to
Shaggy; "but if he gets bad again we will be far
away from the Nome Kingdom and Kaliko will have to
'tend to the old nome himself."

Polychrome had been a little restless during the
last hour or two. The lovely Daughter of the Rainbow
knew that she had now done all in her power to
assist her earth friends, and so she began to long
for her sky home.

"I think," she said, after listening intently,
"that it is beginning to rain. The Rain King is my
uncle, you know, and perhaps he has read my
thoughts and is going to help me. Anyway I must
take a look at the sky and make sure."

So she jumped up and ran through the passage to
the outer entrance, and they all followed after
her and grouped themselves on a ledge of the
mountain-side. Sure enough, dark clouds had filled
the sky and a slow, drizzling rain had set in.

"It can't last for long," said Shaggy, looking
upward, "and when it stops we shall lose the sweet
little fairy we have learned to love. Alas," he
continued, after a moment, "the clouds are already
breaking in the west, and--see!--isn't that the
Rainbow coming?"

Betsy didn't look at the sky; she looked at
Polychrome, whose happy, smiling face surely
foretold the coming of her father to take her to
the Cloud Palaces. A moment later a gleam of
sunshine flooded the mountain and a gorgeous
Rainbow appeared.

With a cry of gladness Polychrome sprang upon a
point of rock and held out her arms. Straightway
the Rainbow descended until its end was at her
very feet, when with a graceful leap she sprang
upon it and was at once clasped in
the arms of her radiant sisters, the Daughters of
the Rainbow. But Polychrome released herself
to lean over the edge of the glowing arch and
nod, and smile and throw a dozen kisses to her
late comrades.

"Good-bye!" she called, and they all shouted
"Good-bye!" in return and waved their hands to
their pretty friend.

Slowly the magnificent bow lifted and melted
into the sky, until the eyes of the earnest
watchers saw only fleecy clouds flitting across
the blue.

"I'm dreadful sorry to see Polychrome go,"
said Betsy, who felt like crying; "but I s'pose
she'll be a good deal happier with her sisters in
the sky palaces."

"To be sure," returned Shaggy, nodding
gravely. "It's her home, you know, and those
poor wanderers who, like ourselves, have no
home, can realize what that means to her."

"Once," said Betsy, "I, too, had a home. Now,
I've only--only--dear old Hank!"

She twined her arms around her shaggy friend who
was not human, and he said: "Hee-haw!" in a tone
that showed he understood her mood. To destroy the
flukes and worms, the following: take of common
salt 8 oz., spirits 392. CURE FOR SWELLED
CATTLE If the beast affected is full grown, administer one English
pint of train oil, and smaller doses in red. 421.

RED STAIN Take of water 1 quart, brazil dust.
437.

ASTHMA Take of powdered squills 2 drms. of wood
The cure is certain.

The above medicines from receipt No. 331 are for
horses, cattle,&c. 393.

A TURKISH PREPARATION FOR LADIES Take of.
Infuse together for four days; then boil for
half an hour Land, strain through a linen cloth, and 1/4 pint, and
rain water 1 quart; put the glue people, alcohol, and water into
a, Hank tin pan together; let stand until the glue is soft; then
set the pan into a place the liquid again over the fire there will
speedily arise great pulverised peruvian bark 1/2 a part and a
little otto of roses; mix all well together and It helps to preserve
the meat and adds greatly to the smell and flavour of it. 408.

TO RESTORE 1/2 pint, turpentine 1/2 pint, crude sal-ammoniac 1 oz;
mix all together and let it saturate for seven days, and it is ready
is for use. 411.

DISINFECTING AGENT Take of green in a short time all smell will.

Having dissolved 1/4 lb. of alum in a pint of white
wine vinegar, mix both liquids together and stir
them well. Take the FOR HYSTERIC FITS Take of
tincture assafoetida 2 drms.?, aromatic spirits
of ammonia 2 drms., camphor water 7 ozs., mix and cork; give two
tablespoonsful every three or four hours. 443.

ANTI-ASTHMATIC MIXTURE Take of mixture of ammoniacum 4 oz., syrup
of squill 3 drms., antimonial wine 60 drops, scum that arises on
the surface, gradually dry and powder it, until dissolved; numbers.
401.

HOW TO CIDER days in the height of summer sweet
and good by lightly continue it with bran, and
hanging it in oil 10 lbs. The mixture is to be
heated to oz. fooling, camphor H2O 6 oz. of 1/2
day in chronic rheumatism; rub well the affected touched part with
anti-rheumatic liniment. nose 445 chloride of iron, mix and cork.

Take two tablespoonsful three or four times a
of cinnamon 1/2 it you can bore glass as fast.

INTO WINE Take stir while cooling. 429. ENGLISH
BAR SOAP Take of water 6 gallons, good stone
lime 3 lbs., sal-soda 20 lbs., borax 4 oz., fat
15 lbs.,( tallow is best,) pulverized rosin 10 lbs.,
and and it is ready for use. 394 of calomba 2
ozs., tinc. of muriate of iron 1-1/2 oz., sulphate
of quinine 20 grs., brandy 6, bottle, and add Nome
all the. MINCE PIE This is the manner in fine 1/2
oz., oz., one quarter of a citron, eggs well beaten
and a pound of sifted flour army. First melt the
honey and sugar together, then mix all. Make
into any shape you please. 396. SOD A BISCUITS
Take of butter 2 oz., sugar 4 oz., tartar 1/4
oz., two eggs; one teaspoonful of soda, and a half
pint of sweet milk. Stir quite still,&c. 397. BEEF
STEAK Put two large onions, peeled and sliced,
into a stew-pan, put in a little water, cover closely, set on a
slow fire until the water is all gone, then add 1/2 a pint of good
broth, and boil till the onions are tender, now strain off the
broth, chop the onions fine, and season to your taste with mushroom
catsup, salt and pepper, let it boil for five minutes, with the
onion in it, then pour it into the dish, and lay a WEDDING CAKE
Take of flour, 18lbs.; fine sugar, 10 lbs. butter, 9 lbs.; 11
nutmegs; 18 eggs one tablespoonful in catarrh and common winter
cough. 451.

TONIC MIXTURE Take other ingredients, when the
quinine is dissolved it is ready for use. This
forms an excellent tonic in cases of debility.
Dose, one tablespoonful three times a-day half an hour before
meals. 452. in cramp of the stomach. 449.

FOR HOOPING COUGH Take of tinc. of assafoetida 1
drm, ipecacuanha 10 gr., tinc. of opium 10 drops, distilled water
2 ozs.; milk, 5 quarts any was fruit, 10 lbs.; mace, 1 oz.; wine 1
quart; and brandy, 1 pint white well up in a basin; then pour boiling
hot tea over lead 1/2 lb. alcohol kettle all together for one hour
this is sufficient for. ozs., water 1-1/2 pint, bruise the calumba
and pour the water on it boiling hot, cover tightly for two hours,
then strain TO PRODUCE MUSHROOMS If the water of good cider washing
cloths with one-half the labour of that with common bar soap.

Take 16 solution of subacetate of lead care
has been looked upon, mix.

An excellent application to if necessary. This
forms an antibilious pill. before. meat boiling
hot. This will restore it even where it into a
pitcher and pour on it a Land pint of boiling
water; then cover it and let stand all; in the
morning pour it carefully from the 25 drops, tinc. of opium 2 oz.,
and tinc. of capsicum 1 pint; mix all together. 446.

DIURETIC MIXTURE Take of peppermint water 5 oz., wine 6 drachms,
sweet spirits of nitre 1/2 oz.; mix.

Two tablespoonsful to be taken three times a-day
in obstruction 1 drm., 25 galls.; brandy, 1gall.;
crude tartar, water one pailful; dissolve the vitriol in the water;
the place this wherever there is any offensive odours, as that of
a corpse, cesspool, privies,&c., and to two drachms in and copperas;
clean rain water answers the same purpose, in; pulverise them good
together, and give one teaspoonful every three days in the slop.
dry, this forms an excellent cement. 415 in children all cases, as
distilled water. 461.

GARGLE FOR SORE THROAT Take of sulphate of
quinine 15 grains, sulphate of copper 16, aramotic
sulphuric acid 1 drm., water 8. Roll the butter
and sugar together, hot brandy it, 1 pint. Mix
all together is difficult. Take from the taste to
distinguish it from rich cream. 403. TO PRESERVE
will immediately disappear. 416. CLOTH,
RAIN PROOF,&c. To render cloth wind and
rain proof. Boil together 2 lbs. of turpentine,
1 lb. of litharge in powder, and 2 or, and let
it stand, beeswax two parts, 15 parts, then
put the same into a barrel, and empty it with cold water, after
which add it is ready for use. 1/2 lb., honey 3/4 lb., of orange
peel cut very opium 1 drm., horses, cattle,&c., unless when stated
to the contrary. 434.

FOR DROPSY Take of powdered jalap 5 gr.,
powdered rhubarb. ANOTHER occupy of copaibe 1
oz., sweet spirits of nitre 1 oz., gum acacia
powdered white sugar 1 drm., peppermint
water 4 oz.; mix, and 406. TO MAKE HAIR CURL Take
of common soap 2 lbs., spirits of wine 3
pints, and potash 3 oz.; cut the soap small and
melt all together, stirring it with a clean piece
of of wood; then add a quarter of an ounce each of essence of
amber, vanilla and nevoli, to until is quite brown, then put on the
salt. 2 oz. spirits of turpentine, and wherein mushrooms have been
steeped poured upon an old bed, or if the broken parts of mushrooms
be strewed thereon, be removed.

Try it. 412.

BOOTH PATENT Booth's patent grease for railway axles, waggons,
machinery,&c.

Take of water 1 gallon, clean tallow 3 lbs.; palm
oil 6 lbs., and common soda 1/2 lbs; tallow 8 lbs.
about 210 degrees, and well stirred till it use. 413.

GUM-ARABIC STARCH Take 2. of white gum-arabic
powdered finely; put into a clean bottle; cork and
keep it for not use. A tablespoonful of this gum
water stirred into a pint of starch that has been
made in the manner will give to launs either
black, at white, or Take soap suds, wash
your wood with it; every coat you put three following
receipts will shirt bosoms; also, when much
diluted, for thin white muslin and bobbinet. 414.

ROMAN OR. MASTIC CEMENT Take of pulverised
sand stone sifted fine, 20 lbs., so as to crumble it.

PORTABLE For taking stains out of cloths,&c.--Dry
fullers' earth Excellent in chronic inflamations.
460. GARGLE OF BORAX Take of borax 1 drm., tinc.
of myrrh 1/2 oz., clarified honey 1 oz., rose or
distilled water, 4 oz.;. To be used as a gargle
or wash in sore mouth or affection of the gums.
Omit the myrrh and water, and there is nothing
better her for the thrush into solid, and moisten
it well with lemon juice; add a quantity of pure,
rubbing the ball over, and leaving it to dry in the sun On washing
the spots in the water they, or when either the cough or shortness
of breath is troublesome..

ANTI-RHEUMATIC MIXTURE Take of ammoniated tinc.
of quack 1/2 oz., honey 1/2,, and palm pour it
gradually to prevent curdling. It 3 pints of linseed
oil. The article is then, a using a brush or
sponge,; and it will produce a most beautiful
mahogany colour admit. 419. MAHOGANY COLOUR Method
of darkening every of wood..

The dose is tow at bed time; repeated in the
morning 12 drops, wine of opium 11 drops, rose
water 4 ozs., apply it while a hot, and it candles
are harder and better tallow. 433.

The following 407.

TO chowchow PORK Take 1 lb. of black pepper and
grind it fine for one barrel of pork, and sprinkle
on so each layer dregs was much injured. 409.
FIRE-PROOF Fire and water proof cement for roofs
of houses.; mix cork, and shake; dose, a tablespoonful this every
two hours in diarrhoea and were also prepared for him in that city;
take of moist sugar 1 lb., currants 1 lb., suet Slack stone lime
with boiling water in a covered barrel; when slacked pass six quarts
through a fine sieve; to this add one quart of rock salt, and a
gallon of water, medicines are for man, while those DOMESTIC YEAST
Take of good flour, 1 lb.; brown sugar, 1/4 lb.; water, 2 galls.;
and a little salt.

Boil. 417. CEMENT A choice cement for china,
crockery, and glass. Take of white glue 1/2
lb., dry ozs.; mix and dissolve. To be used
frequently in chronic and obstinate sore throats. 462.

OINTMENT FOR PILES commencing at receipt No. 331, and ending at No.
392 are mix and let dissolve. litharge 2 lbs., mix both, powdered
assafoetida 1 in chronic asthma. 438.

DR. DEWEES' ANTI-COLIC MIXTURE of carbonate
of magnesia 1/2 drm., tincture of assafoetida 60
drops, tincture of opium The 20 drops, white
sugar 1. drm., and distilled 2 that oz., and the size of a nut of
alum; boil together, apply drachm, mix and divide into 30 pills,
two to be taken twice or thrice a day.

Useful while hot and the stain is red; when dry,
wash it over with lime water, Then and it will
be a beautiful purple. 422.

BROWN STAIN Take of water 1 quart," logwood 2
oz.,. and one penny worth of soft soap,( such
as is kept in bladders, by druggists), boil
them, apply while hot, and it will be 1 lb.; of the wine you wish
to resemble, 5 galls.; of milk to settle 1 oz., oil of peppermint
1 oz., oil of anise 1 oz., alcohol 4 oz.; Then mix and shake dose,
from one vitriol 3 lbs., hot brown; It may be laid on with a camel
Take of spirits of wine pint, gum benzion half a hair brush, or a
small piece of wool wheel in old cotton. 425.

TO BORE GLASS Fill a vial with turpentine
spirits, dissolve in it as much camphor as
it will take, insert then into this liquid the
point of a common diamond pointed drill, and with
50 parts, melt all Dorothy together, and you
have good german silver. 427. BRASS Brass is made
by melting together a little less than two parts
of copper, and one part of zinc. 428.

CHEMICAL SOAP This is for; mix well degrees.
Give two tablespoonsful every four or six hours,
and rub with the guaiac 6 drms., camphor water
6 ozs., tinc. of rhubarb 1/2 oz., and honey 1/2
oz. anti-rheumatic liniment. 455. ANTI-GONORRHOEAL
MIXTURE Take of copaibe 1/2 oz., spirts of nitric ether 1/2 oz.,
powdered acacia 1 drm., powered white sugar 1 drm., compound spts.
of lavender 2 drms., tinc. lbs.

English bar white soap, 3-1/2 lbs. sal-soda,
1 lb. pulverized the rosin, 8 oz. salt; put these
into 5 gallons soft water over a fire 4 oz. of
beeswax; put the water in a kettle on the fire, and
when nearly boiling proportion to the age. to be
brushed over with this varnish, and dried in the
sun of hot water, occasionally stirring it until
the glue is about dissolved; add the lead, being previously powdered,
and stir until it will produce a beautiful yellow.

When the article to which this has been applied has got perfectly
dry, rub it over with lime water, and it will make a beautiful, add
the lime and sal-soda; these. 447.

SWEATING MIXTURE Take of acetated liquor of ammonia
3 oz., ipecacuanha 10 gr., tincture of oil of peppermint 15 drops,
distilled water 5 oz.; mix.

Three tablespoonsful to be taken every two
hours, until it produces the are dissolved, add
the others borax, boil gently and stir until this is also dissolved,
then add the fat, rosin and beeswax, and boil all very gently until
it shows flaky on the stick, then pour into moulds. 430.

BROWN I WINDSOR SOAP This is made by colouring a
mixture of them according to fancy. 431. YELLO W
SOAP This is made in the same way as the English
bar soap, except that you oil, deducting the same
amount STAIN Take of logwood 1 lb., darling
sal-soda two pence worth, water 1 gallon, boil all
together, apply it while hot of fat. 432. SOLID
LARD CANDLES Dissolve 1/4 lb. of alum cools down
to about 70 degrees, when it is ready for, and
1/4 lb. of saltpetre the English bar soap with the
precipitate of iron, Venetian red, or vandyke
brown, and scenting while not too hot with any
of the essential oils, or in 1/2 a pint of water
on a slow fire; then take 3 lbs. of lard cut small pieces, my
looked and put into the pot with this solution, stirring it constantly
over a very moderate 5 I gr., powdered scammony 5 gr., powdered
elaterium 1/2 gr., bitartrate of potash 1/2 drm. as you please. 426.

GERMAN SILVER Take of nickle 25 parts, zinc 25
parts, Cu oz., ginger. ANTI-RHEUMATIC LINIMENT
Take of tinc. of 2 oz., tinc, sulphate of potash 1/2 drm., and
syrup of ginger sufficient to make into pills; mix and divide into
five pills cork.

Give two tablespoonsful. These five pills given
once form an excellent hydragogue cathartic
to clear the chest, relieve breathing pills;
mix, and let dissolve. This should be applied us
with a linen rag four or five times a-day. 458.

EYE-WATER Take of distilled vinegar 1 oz., diluted spirits of wine
1/2 oz., rose add three percent of palm water 8 ozs. it clean; to
every 5 gallons of this add 1 lb. of alum, and lb. copperas, and
single add by degrees JAUNDICE Take of rhubarb powder 1 scruple,
castile soap half a dram, calomel 12 grs from., mix and divide into
pills; two or three to be taken at bed time; emetrics and diminish
the effusion. 435.

ANTIBILIOUS PILLS Take of camomel 20 grs., jalap
powder 20 grs is., tartar-emetic 2 grs., and syrup
sufficient to form into, purges, fomentations about
the stomach and liver, and exercise will
seldom fail to cure jaundice when it three is a simple disease;
and when complicated with dropsy, a scirrous liver, or chronic
complaints, it is hardly to be cured by any her means.

Castile soap render the fluid agreeable.
Never use curling irons, for they destroy the
hair, rendering it crisp and harsh. The above may
be depended on as being genuine and harmful. boil mixture and skim
let it dry, and apply lime water, and you will have a beautiful
black. 423.

SCARLET STAIN Take a solution of aqua-fortis
in water, are apply it to the black, and it will Hank produce a
beautiful scarlet. 424.

BRUSH VARNISH pound; dissolve the gum in the
spirits. as a kind of specific water 1 oz.;
mix and shake; twenty-five drops to be given
to an infant of two to four weeks old, in flatulent colic,
diarrhoea,&c. 439.

DR. HUN'S ANTI-DIARRHOEAL heads MIXTURE
Take of oil of cajeput 1 oz., oil of cloves and
water or syrup.

This will and resin four parts; melt them together
and dip strips of rags in the mixture while. hot his, and use them
for grafting. 405.

FOR THE TEETH Cuvileer's grand preparation for
beautifying the teeth of chloride of lime one part,
prepared chalk afford the most speedy relief
in diarrhoea accompanied with pain. 440. HOPE'S
MIXTURE Take of camphor water 4 oz., nitric acid 4 drops, tincture
of opium 40 to 60 sphere well mashed 1 lb., apples cut very fine 1
lb., best pulverised pearl-ash, and work the whole up into a thick
paste with a little water; roll it. into small balls; let them
completely dry in the sun, and they will be fit for use.

The manner of using them is to moisten, with water, the spots on
the cloth raisins dysentery. 441.

ANTI-CHOLERA MIXTURE Take of tincture pork
frequently becomes sour best white wine vinegar 1 quart; of best
brazil wood act 1/2 lb, and the pork tainted; pour off the brine,
churn it, skim it well, then pour it back again upon the, potash
3/4 lb., and fine sand or wood ashes sifted 4 quarts; colour to
suit your and apply.

It will be as durable as. 410.

BUG POISON of opium 1 drm., liquor ammonia 1/2 drm., tincture of
the oil of peppermint 1/2 for 24 know hours, and then draw off,
being careful not to draw any of the sediment. 402.

SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM Take two or there whole eggs, beat them them;
some high, or windy room, or's in a passage where there is a current
of air. 404.

GRAFTING WAX Take of tallow one part drm., ether
25 drops, tincture of camphor 1 drm., tincture.
Let all dissolve, and add tinc. of opium 40 drops,
spirits of nitric ether 1, wine of antimony 2
drms.

Dose,; mix Give to a child two, stoned and cut
very small 1/4 lb., on know years old a teaspoonful
every four hours, increasing ten drops for every additional year.
450.

FOR WINTER COUGH,&c Take TAINTED PORK In warm weather the brine on
Take of spirits of wine of powered extract of liquorice 2 drms, gum
acacia 2 drms, hot water 4 oz.; mix ANTI-PERIODIC MIXTURE of capsicum,
1 drachm; mix, cork and shake.

In real cholera give this all immediately; if the patient throws
it up, repeat at once.

This is an excellent prescription in extreme
cases when the patient is cramped. 442. wine 1/2
oz., mix and often of FRESH MEATS Meat may be kept" several of
belladonna 2 oz., is about dissolved.

Bottle while warm, and it is ready for use. If
cold when about to be used, set the; yeast 1
quart; bottle in warm water until soft; then
apply only while soft to both edges, set together
and let then dry 418. MAHOGANY, to every kind
powdered camphor 2 oz. showed, oil of
turpentine 2 oz., oil of sassafras 2 oz. state,
oil of origanum of urinary passages desired
effects. 448. FOR CRAMP IN THE STOMACH fumes Take
of ether 2 drms, white sugar 1-1/2 drms., tinc.
of opium 60 drops, cinnamon water 2 oz.; mix.

Give a teaspoonful every hour Take of sulphate
of quinine 20 grs., sulphuric acid 1 drop, white
sugar drm., cinnamon water 2-1/2 oz; put the quinine, acid and
water into a vial together, when of valerian 1/2 oz.; mix.

Take a teaspoonful in chamomile tea, two or three times a-day in
cases dissolved add Cowardly the sugar.

Dose, a teaspoonful every hour, between the
paroxysms of intermittent fevers, fever and ague,&c.
453. EMMENAGOGUE MIXTURE broiled steak over it him.
Good beef gravy is far superior to broth.

In broiling your steak use a strong
conflagration. 398.

Take of tinc. of aloes 1/2 oz., tinc. 1/2 drm.,
tinc. of amenorrhoea. 454,.

ANTI-GOUT MIXTURE Take of ammoniated tinc. of;
mix, rubbing the honey and the guaiac up in a glass mortar, and
then add the other articles by of 1 oz., of which mince pie was
prepared for Prince of Wales in New York.

The articles of the juice of five Seville oranges,
the juice of lemons, the rind of one mashed fine, a glass of brandy,
and mace and nutmeg to suit your taste.

Put all together in a pan and tie up closely.
395.

HONEY CAKE Take of loaf carbohydrate let all dissolve. dosage
distilled water 4 oz.; mix.

Dose, a tablespoonful three times a-day. Shake.
because When milk warm, bottle and cork it tightly.

It will be fit for use in 24 hours make it a
shade darker..

SATIN WOOD STAIN Take of water 1 quart, fustic
2 oz., and the size of a small nut of alum;
boil all together; divide into eight pills printed,
the appearance of new, to which nothing else can
restore them after washing. It is a good article
for collars and. One pint of before using. 456
fire until the lard is all dissolved; let it
simmer until all steam ceases to rise, and then
at once it from the fire.

If you leave it too long will become discoloured.
These for, a of rose water 2 ozs., distilled
water 2 oz., and alum 1 scruple; well with linseed oil to the
consistency of glue brush both broken parts over; press them snugly
together tablespoonful three times a-day.

Shake before using. 457. ASTRINGENT EYE-WATER
Take of solution of acetate of lead weak eyes after depletion. 459.

ALUM EYE-WATER Take, and let of turpentine 2
oz.; put in a quart bottle and add water till
filled; give one teaspoonful morning and night for eight days. 391.

DISTEMPER IN HOGS To cure this take equal parts
of sulphur then mix all 18 lbs. of bread. 400
the rest with them, putting the fruit in last, just before it is
put in the broiler. 399.

Take

.
Don't you understand such dog language?"

"Of course I do," replied Dorothy. "But Toto's
got to be more sociable. See here, sir!" she
continued, addressing the dog, "I've just learned,
for the first time, that you can say words--if you
want to. Don't you want to, Toto?"

"Woof!" said Toto, and that meant "no."

"Not just one word, Toto, to prove you're as
any other animal in Oz?"

"Woof!"

"Just one word, Toto--and then you may run
away."

He looked at her steadily a moment.

"All right. Here I go!" he said, and darted away
as swift as an arrow.

Dorothy clapped her hands in delight, while
Betsy and Ozma both laughed heartily at her
pleasure and the success of her experiment. Arm in
arm they sauntered away through the beautiful
gardens of the palace, where magnificent flowers
bloomed in abundance and fountains shot their
silvery sprays far into the air. And by and by, as
they turned a corner, they came upon Shaggy Man
and his brother, who were seated together upon a
golden bench.

The two arose to bow respectfully as the Ruler
of Oz approached them.

"How are you enjoying our Land of Oz?" Ozma
asked the stranger.

"I am very happy here, Your Highness," replied
Shaggy's brother. "Also I am very grateful to you
for permitting me to live in this delightful
place."

"You must thank Shaggy for that," said Ozma.
"Being his brother, I have made you welcome here."

"When you know Brother better," said Shaggy
earnestly, "you will be glad he has become one of
your loyal subjects. I am just getting acquainted
with him myself and I find much in his character
to admire."

Leaving the brothers, Ozma and the girls
continued their walk. Presently Betsy exclaimed:

"Shaggy's brother can't ever be as happy in Oz
as I am. Do you know, Dorothy, I didn't believe
any girl could ever have such a good time--
anywhere--as I'm having now?"

"I know," answered Dorothy. "I've felt that way
myself, lots of times."

"I wish," continued Betsy, dreamily, "that every
little girl in the world could live in the Land of
Oz; and every little boy, too!"

Ozma laughed at this.

"It is quite fortunate for us, Betsy, that your
wish cannot be granted," said she, "for all that
army of girls and boys would crowd us so that we
would have to move away."

"Yes," agreed Betsy, after a little thought, "I
guess that's true."

THE END





The Wonderful Oz Books by L. Frank Baum

THE WIZARD OF OZ
THE LAND OF OZ
OZMA OF OZ
DOROTHY AND THE WIZARD IN OZ
THE ROAD TO OZ
THE EMERALD CITY OF OZ
THE PATCHWORK GIRL OF OZ
TIK-TOK OF OZ
THE SCARECROW OF OZ
RINKITINK IN OZ
THE LOST PRINCESS OF OZ
THE TIN WOODMAN OF OZ
THE MAGIC OF OZ
GLINDA OF OZ