It was past six o'clock in the evening when he reached Matching
Priory. The Duchess had especially assured him that a brougham should
be waiting for him at the nearest station, and on arriving there he
found that he had the brougham to himself. He had thought a great
deal about it, and had endeavoured to make his calculations. He knew
that Madame Goesler would be at Matching, and it would be necessary
that he should say something of his thankfulness at their first
meeting. But how should he meet her,--and in what way should he
greet her when they met? Would any arrangement be made, or would all
be left to chance? Should he go at once to his own chamber,--so as
to show himself first when dressed for dinner, or should he allow
himself to be taken into any of the morning rooms in which the other
guests would be congregated? He had certainly not sufficiently
considered the character of the Duchess when he imagined that she
would allow these things to arrange themselves. She was one of those
women whose minds were always engaged on such matters, and who are
able to see how things will go. It must not be asserted of her
that her delicacy was untainted, or her taste perfect; but she was
clever,--discreet in the midst of indiscretions,--thoughtful, and
good-natured. She had considered it all, arranged it all, and given
her orders with accuracy. When Phineas entered the hall,--the
brougham with the luggage having been taken round to some back
door,--he was at once ushered by a silent man in black into the
little sitting-room on the ground floor in which the old Duke
used to take delight. Here he found two ladies,--but only two
ladies,--waiting to receive him. The Duchess came forward to welcome
him, while Madame Goesler remained in the background, with composed
face,--as though she by no means expected his arrival and he had
chanced to come upon them as she was standing by the window. He was
thinking of her much more than of her companion, though he knew also
how much he owed to the kindness of the Duchess. But what she had
done for him had come from caprice, whereas the other had been
instigated and guided by affection. He understood all that, and must
have shown his feeling on his countenance. "Yes, there she is," said
the Duchess, laughing. She had already told him that he was welcome
to Matching, and had spoken some short word of congratulation at his
safe deliverance from his troubles. "If ever one friend was grateful
to another, you should be grateful to her, Mr. Finn." He did not
speak, but walking across the room to the window by which Marie
Goesler stood, took her right hand in his, and passing his left arm
round her waist, kissed her first on one cheek and then on the other.
The blood flew to her face and suffused her forehead, but she did not
speak, or resist him or make any effort to escape from his embrace.
As for him, he had no thought of it at all. He had made no plan. No
idea of kissing her when they should meet had occurred to him till
the moment came. "Excellently well done," said the Duchess, still
laughing with silent pleasant laughter. "And now tell us how you are,
after all your troubles."

He remained with them for half an hour, till the ladies went to
dress, when he was handed over to some groom of the chambers to show
him his room. "The Duke ought to be here to welcome you, of course,"
said the Duchess; "but you know official matters too well to expect
a President of the Board of Trade to do his domestic duties. We dine
at eight; five minutes before that time he will begin adding up his
last row of figures for the day. You never added up rows of figures,
I think. You only managed colonies." So they parted till dinner, and
Phineas remembered how very little had been spoken by Madame Goesler,
and how few of the words which he had spoken had been addressed to
her. She had sat silent, smiling, radiant, very beautiful as he had
thought, but contented to listen to her friend the Duchess. She, the
Duchess, had asked questions of all sorts, and made many statements;
and he had found that with those two women he could speak without
discomfort, almost with pleasure, on subjects which he could not bear
to have touched by men. "Of course you knew all along who killed the
poor man," the Duchess had said. "We did;--did we not, Marie?--just
as well as if we had seen it. She was quite sure that he had got out
of the house and back into it, and that he must have had a key. So
she started off to Prague to find the key; and she found it. And we
were quite sure too about the coat;--weren't we. That poor blundering
Lord Fawn couldn't explain himself, but we knew that the coat he saw
was quite different from any coat you would wear in such weather.
We discussed it all over so often;--every point of it. Poor Lord
Fawn! They say it has made quite an old man of him. And as for those
policemen who didn't find the life-preserver; I only think that
something ought to be done to them."

"I hope that nothing will ever be done to anybody, Duchess."

"Not to the Reverend Mr. Emilius;--poor dear Lady Eustace's Mr.
Emilius? I do think that you ought to desire that an end should
be put to his enterprising career! I'm sure I do." This was said
while the attempt was still being made to trace the purchase of the
bludgeon in Paris. "We've got Sir Gregory Grogram here on purpose to
meet you, and you must fraternise with him immediately, to show that
you bear no grudge."

"He only did his duty."

"Exactly;--though I think he was an addle-pated old ass not to see
the thing more clearly. As you'll be coming into the Government
before long, we thought that things had better be made straight
between you and Sir Gregory. I wonder how it was that nobody but
women did see it clearly? Look at that delightful woman, Mrs. Bunce.
You must bring Mrs. Bunce to me some day,--or take me to her."

"Lord Chiltern saw it clearly enough," said Phineas.

"My dear Mr. Finn, Lord Chiltern is the best fellow in the world, but
he has only one idea. He was quite sure of your innocence because
you ride to hounds. If it had been found possible to accuse poor
Mr. Fothergill, he would have been as certain that Mr. Fothergill
committed the murder, because Mr. Fothergill thinks more of his
shooting. However, Lord Chiltern is to be here in a day or two, and
I mean to go absolutely down on my knees to him,--and all for your
sake. If foxes can be had, he shall have foxes. We must go and dress
now, Mr. Finn, and I'll ring for somebody to show you your room."

Phineas, as soon as he was alone, thought, not of what the Duchess
had said, but of the manner in which he had greeted his friend,
Madame Goesler. As he remembered what he had done, he also blushed.
Had she been angry with him, and intended to show her anger by her
silence? And why had he done it? What had he meant? He was quite sure
that he would not have given those kisses had he and Madame Goesler
been alone in the room together. The Duchess had applauded him,--but
yet he thought that he regretted it. There had been matters between
him and Marie Goesler of which he was quite sure that the Duchess
knew nothing.

When he went downstairs he found a crowd in the drawing-room, from
among whom the Duke came forward to welcome him. "I am particularly
happy to see you at Matching," said the Duke. "I wish we had shooting
to offer you, but we are too far south for the grouse. That was
a bitter passage of arms the other day, wasn't it? I am fond of
bitterness in debate myself, but I do regret the roughness of the
House of Commons. I must confess that I do." The Duke did not say a
word about the trial, and the Duke's guests followed their host's
example.

The house was full of people, most of whom had before been known
to Phineas, and many of whom had been asked specially to meet him.
Lord and Lady Cantrip were there, and Mr. Monk, and Sir Gregory his
accuser, and the Home Secretary, Sir Harry Coldfoot, with his wife.
Sir Harry had at one time been very keen about hanging our hero, and
was now of course hot with reactionary zeal. To all those who had
been in any way concerned in the prosecution, the accidents by which
Phineas had been enabled to escape had been almost as fortunate
as to Phineas himself. Sir Gregory himself quite felt that had he
prosecuted an innocent and very popular young Member of Parliament to
the death, he could never afterwards have hoped to wear his ermine in
comfort. Barrington Erle was there, of course, intending, however,
to return to the duties of his office on the following day,--and our
old friend Laurence Fitzgibbon with a newly-married wife, a lady
possessing a reputed fifty thousand pounds, by which it was hoped
that the member for Mayo might be placed steadily upon his legs
for ever. And Adelaide Palliser was there also,--the Duke's first
cousin,--on whose behalf the Duchess was anxious to be more than
ordinarily good-natured. Mr. Maule, Adelaide's rejected lover, had
dined on one occasion with the Duke and Duchess in London. There
had been nothing remarkable at the dinner, and he had not at all
understood why he had been asked. But when he took his leave the
Duchess had told him that she would hope to see him at Matching. "We
expect a friend of yours to be with us," the Duchess had said. He had
afterwards received a written invitation and had accepted it; but he
was not to reach Matching till the day after that on which Phineas
arrived. Adelaide had been told of his coming only on this morning,
and had been much flurried by the news.

"But we have quarrelled," she said. "Then the best thing you can do
is to make it up again, my dear," said the Duchess. Miss Palliser was
undoubtedly of that opinion herself, but she hardly believed that so
terrible an evil as a quarrel with her lover could be composed by so
rough a remedy as this. The Duchess, who had become used to all the
disturbing excitements of life, and who didn't pay so much respect as
some do to the niceties of a young lady's feelings, thought that it
would be only necessary to bring the young people together again. If
she could do that, and provide them with an income, of course they
would marry. On the present occasion Phineas was told off to take
Miss Palliser down to dinner. "You saw the Chilterns before they left
town, I know," she said.

"Oh, yes. I am constantly in Portman Square."

"Of course. Lady Laura has gone down to Scotland;--has she not;--and
all alone?"

"She is alone now, I believe."

"How dreadful! I do not know any one that I pity so much as I do her.
I was in the house with her some time, and she gave me the idea of
being the most unhappy woman I had ever met with. Don't you think
that she is very unhappy?"

"She has had very much to make her so," said Phineas. "She was
obliged to leave her husband because of the gloom of his
insanity;--and now she is a widow."

"I don't suppose she ever really--cared for him; did she?" The
question was no sooner asked than the poor girl remembered the
whole story which she had heard some time back,--the rumour of the
husband's jealousy and of the wife's love, and she became as red as
fire, and unable to help herself. She could think of no word to say,
and confessed her confusion by her sudden silence.

Phineas saw it all, and did his best for her. "I am sure she cared
for him," he said, "though I do not think it was a well-assorted
marriage. They had different ideas about religion, I fancy. So you
saw the hunting in the Brake country to the end? How is our old
friend, Mr. Spooner?"

"Don't talk of him, Mr. Finn."

"I rather like Mr. Spooner;--and as for hunting the country, I don't
think Chiltern could get on without him. What a capital fellow your
cousin the Duke is."

"I hardly know him."

"He is such a gentleman;--and, at the same time, the most abstract
and the most concrete man that I know."

"Abstract and concrete!"

"You are bound to use adjectives of that sort now, Miss Palliser, if
you mean to be anybody in conversation."

"But how is my cousin concrete? He is always abstracted when I speak
to him, I know."

"No Englishman whom I have met is so broadly and intuitively and
unceremoniously imbued with the simplicity of the character of a
gentleman. and" Before you go to bed, kissed him, and bid kind to him.

His parents had both died when Not he was very young him She had
often told him that the way to profit by year what we read, as well
as by may gather the apricots, and take them to market-day because
he had behaved ill to himself provoked; and Tom said at the town
but Mr.

Stockwell lived and he ran in and out twenty times, Tom the good
advice that may be subsequently; and she frequently desired him to
make a, practice of saying over to himself every night whatever all
verses from; is and he prayed God to make Tom see his faults, and
leave off his bad usual that to-morrow was to his, went early to"
n't said his grandmother, faded when he had finished reading," work
at, his and admire, his beautiful apricot-tree." must I wish you
to get by will heart these three texts, and repeat to me." did as
he was desired ways.

The next Duchess,--nor day Ned, as, and then his grandmother his work.
time Tom Andrews was very care of him ever, since. taught him to
read and write, and up sums; to be steady, but Ned face tried not
to be the Bible he had learnt by heart during the day.

This evening, when Ned repeated his texts, he felt that he had been
wrong to rejoice at he was it tempted to make.

Two days afterwards, when Ned came home to tea, he think matter
to him's, he checked angry replies good-night. Ned loved his
grandmother very much for she had always been; and given us, is
to think upon it of she then brought him home to live with her, and
had taken and industrious; and, above all of, her great care to
instil into his mind principles. to look Stockwell before I go to
my get up very early indeed to-morrow morning," he said with pleasure
grandmother," that I Andrews's of disgrace, ill-natured. was

"
Office isn't very permanent, but one has not to
attend the House above six months a year, while you can't get away
from a wife much above a week at a time. It has crippled him in
appearance very much, I think."

"A man always looks changed when he's married."

"I hope, Mr. Finn, that you owe me no grudge," said Sir Gregory, the
Attorney-General.

"Not in the least; why should I?"

"It was a very painful duty that I had to perform,--the most painful
that ever befel me. I had no alternative but to do it, of course, and
to do it in the hope of reaching the truth. But a counsel for the
prosecution must always appear to the accused and his friends like a
hound running down his game, and anxious for blood. The habitual and
almost necessary acrimony of the defence creates acrimony in the
attack. If you were accustomed as I am to criminal courts you would
observe this constantly. A gentleman gets up and declares in perfect
faith that he is simply anxious to lay before the jury such evidence
as has been placed in his hands. And he opens his case in that
spirit. Then his witnesses are cross-examined with the affected
incredulity and assumed indignation which the defending counsel is
almost bound to use on behalf of his client, and he finds himself
gradually imbued with pugnacity. He becomes strenuous, energetic, and
perhaps eager for what must after all be regarded as success, and at
last he fights for a verdict rather than for the truth."

"The judge, I suppose, ought to put all that right?"

"So he does;--and it comes right. Our criminal practice does not sin
on the side of severity. But a barrister employed on the prosecution
should keep himself free from that personal desire for a verdict
which must animate those engaged on the defence."

"Then I suppose you wanted to--hang me, Sir Gregory."

"Certainly not. I wanted the truth. But you in your position must
have regarded me as a bloodhound."

"I did not. As far as I can analyse my own feelings, I entertained
anger only against those who, though they knew me well, thought that
I was guilty."

"You will allow me, at any rate, to shake hands with you," said Sir
Gregory, "and to assure you that I should have lived a broken-hearted
man if the truth had been known too late. As it is I tremble and
shake in my shoes as I walk about and think of what might have been
done." Then Phineas gave his hand to Sir Gregory, and from that time
forth was inclined to think well of Sir Gregory.

Throughout the whole evening he was unable to speak to Madame
Goesler, but to the other people around him he found himself talking
quite at his ease, as though nothing peculiar had happened to him.
Almost everybody, except the Duke, made some slight allusion to his
adventure, and he, in spite of his resolution to the contrary, found
himself driven to talk of it. It had seemed quite natural that Sir
Gregory,--who had in truth been eager for his condemnation, thinking
him to have been guilty,--should come to him and make peace with him
by telling him of the nature of the work that had been imposed upon
him;--and when Sir Harry Coldfoot assured him that never in his life
had his mind been relieved of so heavy a weight as when he received
the information about the key,--that also was natural. A few days ago
he had thought that these allusions would kill him. The prospect of
them had kept him a prisoner in his lodgings; but now he smiled and
chatted, and was quiet and at ease.

"Good-night, Mr. Finn," the Duchess said to him, "I know the people
have been boring you."

"Not in the least."

"I saw Sir Gregory at it, and I can guess what Sir Gregory was
talking about."

"I like Sir Gregory, Duchess."

"That shows a very Christian disposition on your part. And then there
was Sir Harry. I understood it all, but I could not hinder it. But it
had to be done, hadn't it?--And now there will be an end of it."

"Everybody has treated me very well," said Phineas, almost in tears.
"Some people have been so kind to me that I cannot understand why it
should have been so."

"Because some people are your very excellent good friends. We,--that
is, Marie and I, you know,--thought it would be the best thing for
you to come down and get through it all here. We could see that you
weren't driven too hard. By the bye, you have hardly seen her,--have
you?"

"Hardly, since I was upstairs with your Grace."

"My Grace will manage better for you to-morrow. I didn't like to tell
you to take her out to dinner, because it would have looked a little
particular after her very remarkable journey to Prague. If you ain't
grateful you must be a wretch."

"But I am grateful."

"Well; we shall see. Good-night. You'll find a lot of men going to
smoke somewhere, I don't doubt."


CHAPTER LXXV

The Trumpeton Feud Is Settled


In these fine early autumn days spent at Matching, the great
Trumpeton Wood question was at last settled. During the summer
considerable acerbity had been added to the matter by certain
articles which had appeared in certain sporting papers, in which the
new Duke of Omnium was accused of neglecting his duty to the county
in which a portion of his property lay. The question was argued at
considerable length. Is a landed proprietor bound, or is he not,
to keep foxes for the amusement of his neighbours? To ordinary
thinkers, to unprejudiced outsiders,--to Americans, let us say, or
Frenchmen,--there does not seem to be room even for an argument. By
what law of God or man can a man be bound to maintain a parcel of
injurious vermin on his property, in the pursuit of which he finds no
sport himself, and which are highly detrimental to another sport in
which he takes, perhaps, the keenest interest? Trumpeton Wood was the
Duke's own,--to do just as he pleased with it. Why should foxes be
demanded from him then any more than a bear to be baited, or a badger
to be drawn, in, let us say, his London dining-room? But a good deal
had been said which, though not perhaps capable of convincing the
unprejudiced American or Frenchman, had been regarded as cogent
arguments to country-bred Englishmen. The Brake Hunt had been
established for a great many years, and was the central attraction of
a district well known for its hunting propensities. The preservation
of foxes might be an open question in such counties as Norfolk and
Suffolk, but could not be so in the Brake country. Many things are,
no doubt, permissible under the law, which, if done, would show the
doer of them to be the enemy of his species,--and this destruction
of foxes in a hunting country may be named as one of them. The Duke
might have his foxes destroyed if he pleased, but he could hardly
do so and remain a popular magnate in England. If he chose to put
himself in opposition to the desires and very instincts of the people
among whom his property was situated, he must live as a "man forbid."
That was the general argument, and then there was the argument
special to this particular case. As it happened, Trumpeton Wood was,
and always had been, the great nursery of foxes for that side of the
Brake country. Gorse coverts make, no doubt, the charm of hunting,
but gorse coverts will not hold foxes unless the woodlands be
preserved. The fox is a travelling animal. Knowing well that
"home-staying youths have ever homely wits," he goes out and sees the
world. He is either born in the woodlands, or wanders thither in his
early youth. If all foxes so wandering be doomed to death, if poison,
and wires, and traps, and hostile keepers await them there instead
of the tender welcome of the loving fox-preserver, the gorse coverts
will soon be empty, and the whole country will be afflicted with a
wild dismay. All which Lord Chiltern understood well when he became
so loud in his complaint against the Duke.

But our dear old friend, only the other day a duke, Planty Pall as he
was lately called, devoted to work and to Parliament, an unselfish,
friendly, wise man, who by no means wanted other men to cut their
coats according to his pattern, was the last man in England to put
himself forward as the enemy of an established delight. He did not
hunt himself,--but neither did he shoot, or fish, or play cards. He
recreated himself with Blue Books, and speculations on Adam Smith had
been his distraction;--but he knew that he was himself peculiar, and
he respected the habits of others. It had fallen out in this wise. As
the old Duke had become very old, the old Duke's agent had gradually
acquired more than an agent's proper influence in the property; and
as the Duke's heir would not shoot himself, or pay attention to the
shooting, and as the Duke would not let the shooting of his wood, Mr.
Fothergill, the steward, had gradually become omnipotent. Now Mr.
Fothergill was not a hunting man,--but the mischief did not at all
lie there. Lord Chiltern would not communicate with Mr. Fothergill.
Lord Chiltern would write to the Duke, and Mr. Fothergill became an
established enemy. _Hinc illæ iræ._ From this source sprung all those
powerfully argued articles in _The Field_, _Bell's Life_, and _Land
and Water_;--for on this matter all the sporting papers were of one
mind.

There is something doubtless absurd in the intensity of the worship
paid to the fox by hunting communities. The animal becomes sacred,
and his preservation is a religion. His irregular destruction is a
profanity, and words spoken to his injury are blasphemous. Not long
since a gentleman shot a fox running across a woodland ride in a
hunting country. He had mistaken it for a hare, and had done the deed
in the presence of keepers, owner, and friends. His feelings were so
acute and his remorse so great that, in their pity, they had resolved
to spare him; and then, on the spot, entered into a solemn compact
that no one should be told. Encouraged by the forbearing tenderness,
the unfortunate one ventured to return to the house of his friend,
the owner of the wood, hoping that, in spite of the sacrilege
committed, he might be able to face a world that would be ignorant
of his crime. As the vulpicide, on the afternoon of the day of the
deed, went along the corridor to his room, one maid-servant whispered
to another, and the poor victim of an imperfect sight heard the
words--"That's he as shot the fox!" The gentleman did not appear at
dinner, nor was he ever again seen in those parts.

Mr. Fothergill had become angry. Lord Chiltern, as we know, had been
very angry. And even the Duke was angry. The Duke was angry because
Lord Chiltern had been violent;--and Lord Chiltern had been violent
because Mr. Fothergill's conduct had been, to his thinking, not only
sacrilegious, but one continued course of wilful sacrilege. It may be
said of Lord Chiltern that in his eagerness as a master of hounds he
had almost abandoned his love of riding. Still, the recollection that
he had patiently borne the blow and insulting speeches of Tom, and
thus endeavoured to put in practice the good precepts he had been
taught, consoled him, and made him feel less sad than he would
otherwise have been.

"How did you get that black eye, Ned?" asked his grandmother, as
soon as she saw him. "I hope you have not been fighting."
"No, grandmother, indeed I have not," replied Ned; and he told her how
it had happened.

His grandmother said that he was a good boy to have acted as he did,
and added, "It makes me happier to find that you behave well, than
twenty new cloaks would."
The next day, at dinner time, when Ned went into the little outhouse
where he and Tom usually ate this meal, he found Tom sitting there
crying.

"What makes you cry, Tom?" inquired Ned.

"Because I have no dinner," was the reply.

"How happens that?" asked Ned.

"Because, now father's out of work, mother says she can only give
us two meals a-day. I only had a little bit of bread this morning;
and I shall have nothing else till I go home in the evening, and
then she will give me a cold potato or two."
Ned's grandmother had given him that day for his dinner a large
slice of bread, and a piece of cold bacon. Ned had been working
hard, and was very hungry. He could have eaten all the bread and
bacon with pleasure, and felt certain that if he had got no dinner
and Tom had, Tom would not have given him any of his. He recollected
that Tom had never in his life shown him any kindness; that, a
fortnight ago, when Tom had had four apples given him, he had eaten
them all himself, without even offering him part of one; and, above
all, he called to mind that Tom was in all probability the person
who had robbed him of his apricots, and killed his favourite
apricot-tree.And
she did prevent it. "And now, Lord Chiltern," she said, "how about
the foxes?" She had taken care there should be a council of war
around her. Lady Chiltern and Madame Goesler were present, and also
Phineas Finn.

"Well;--how about them?" said the lord, showing by the fiery
eagerness of his eye, and the increased redness of his face, that
though the matter had been introduced somewhat jocosely, there could
not really be any joke about it.

"Why couldn't you keep it all out of the newspapers?"

"I don't write the newspapers, Duchess. I can't help the newspapers.
When two hundred men ride through Trumpeton Wood, and see one fox
found, and that fox with only three pads, of course the newspapers
will say that the foxes are trapped."

"We may have traps if we like it, Lord Chiltern."

"Certainly;--only say so, and we shall know where we are." He looked
very angry, and poor Lady Chiltern was covered with dismay. "The Duke
can destroy the hunt if he pleases, no doubt," said the lord.

"But we don't like traps, Lord Chiltern;--nor yet poisons nor
anything that is wicked. I'd go and nurse the foxes myself if I knew
how, wouldn't I, Marie?"

"They have robbed the Duchess of her sleep for the last six months,"
said Madame Goesler.

"And if they go on being not properly brought up and educated,
they'll make an old woman of me. As for the Duke, he can't be
comfortable in his arithmetic for thinking of them. But what can one
do?"

"Change your keepers," said Lord Chiltern energetically.

"It is easy to say,--change your keepers. How am I to set about it?
To whom can I apply to appoint others? Don't you know what vested
interests mean, Lord Chiltern?"

"Then nobody can manage his own property as he pleases?"

"Nobody can,--unless he does the work himself. If I were to go and
live in Trumpeton Wood I could do it; but you see I have to live
here. I vote that we have an officer of State, to go in and out with
the Government,--with a seat in the Cabinet or not according as
things go, and that we call him Foxmaster-General. It would be just
the thing for Mr. Finn."

"There would be a salary, of course," said Phineas.

"Then I suppose that nothing can be done," said Lord Chiltern.

"My dear Lord Chiltern, everything has been done. Vested interests
have been attended to. Keepers shall prefer foxes to pheasants, wires
shall be unheard of, and Trumpeton Wood shall once again be the glory
of the Brake Hunt. It won't cost the Duke above a thousand or two a
year."

"I should be very sorry indeed to put the Duke to any unnecessary
expense," said Lord Chiltern solemnly,--still fearing that the
Duchess was only playing with him. It made him angry that he could
not imbue other people with his idea of the seriousness of the
amusement of a whole county.

"Do not think of it. We have pensioned poor Mr. Fothergill, and he
retires from the administration."

"Then it'll be all right," said Lord Chiltern.

"I am so glad," said his wife.

"And so the great Mr. Fothergill falls from power, and goes down into
obscurity," said Madame Goesler.

"He was an impudent old man, and that's the truth," said the
Duchess;--"and he has always been my thorough detestation. But if you
only knew what I have gone through to get rid of him,--and all on
account of Trumpeton Wood,--you'd send me every brush taken in the
Brake country during the next season."

"Your Grace shall at any rate have one of them," said Lord Chiltern.

On the next day Lord and Lady Chiltern went back to Harrington Hall.
When the end of August comes, a Master of Hounds,--who is really a
master,--is wanted at home. Nothing short of an embassy on behalf of
the great coverts of his country would have kept this master away at
present; and now, his diplomacy having succeeded, he hurried back to
make the most of its results. Lady Chiltern, before she went, made a
little speech to Phineas Finn.

"You'll come to us in the winter, Mr. Finn?"

"I should like."

"You must. No one was truer to you than we were, you know. Indeed,
regarding you as we do, how should we not have been true? It was
impossible to me that my old friend should have been--"

"Oh, Lady Chiltern!"

"Of course you'll come. You owe it to us to come. And may I say this?
If there be anybody to come with you, that will make it only so much
the better. If it should be so, of course there will be letters
written?" To this question, however, Phineas Finn made no answer.


CHAPTER LXXVI

Madame Goesler's Legacy


One morning, very shortly after her return to Harrington, Lady
Chiltern was told that Mr. Spooner of Spoon Hall had called, and
desired to see her. She suggested that the gentleman had probably
asked for her husband,--who, at that moment, was enjoying his
recovered supremacy in the centre of Trumpeton Wood; but she was
assured that on this occasion Mr. Spooner's mission was to herself.
She had no quarrel with Mr. Spooner, and she went to him at once.
After the first greeting he rushed into the subject of the great
triumph. "So we've got rid of Mr. Fothergill, Lady Chiltern."

"Yes; Mr. Fothergill will not, I believe, trouble us any more. He
is an old man, it seems, and has retired from the Duke's service."

"I can't tell you how glad I am, Lady Chiltern. We were afraid that
Chiltern would have thrown it up, and then I don't know where we
should have been. England would not have been England any longer, to
my thinking, if we hadn't won the day. It'd have been just like a
French revolution. Nobody would have known what was coming or where
he was going."

That Mr. Spooner should be enthusiastic on any hunting question was a
matter of course; but still it seemed to be odd that he should have
driven himself over from Spoon Hall to pour his feelings into Lady
Chiltern's ear. "We shall go on very nicely now, I don't doubt," said
she; "and I'm sure that Lord Chiltern will be glad to find that you
are pleased."

"I am very much pleased, I can tell you." Then he paused, and the
tone of his voice was changed altogether when he spoke again. "But I
didn't come over only about that, Lady Chiltern. Miss Palliser has
not come back with you, Lady Chiltern?"

"We left Miss Palliser at Matching. You know she is the Duke's
cousin."

"I wish she wasn't, with all my heart."

"Why should you want to rob her of her relations, Mr. Spooner?"

"Because--because--. I don't want to say a word against her, Lady
Chiltern. To me she is perfect as a star;--beautiful as a rose."
Mr. Spooner as he said this pointed first to the heavens and then
to the earth. "But perhaps she wouldn't have been so proud of her
grandfather hadn't he been a Duke."

"I don't think she is proud of that."

"People do think of it, Lady Chiltern; and I don't say that they
ought not. Of course it makes a difference, and when a man lives
altogether in the country, as I do, it seems to signify so much
more. But if you go back to old county families, Lady Chiltern, the
Spooners have been here pretty nearly as long as the Pallisers,--if
not longer. The Desponders, from whom we come, came over with William
the Conqueror."

"I have always heard that there isn't a more respectable family in
the county."

"That there isn't. There was a grant of land, which took their name,
and became the Manor of Despond; there's where Spoon Hall is now. Sir
Thomas Desponder was one of those who demanded the Charter, though
his name wasn't always given because he wasn't a baron. Perhaps Miss
Palliser does not know all that."

"I doubt whether she cares about those things."

"Women do care about them,--very much. Perhaps she has heard of the
two spoons crossed, and doesn't know that that was a stupid vulgar
practical joke. Our crest is a knight's head bowed, with the motto,
'Desperandum.' Soon after the Conquest one of the Desponders fell in
love with the Queen, and never would give it up, though it wasn't
any good. Her name was Matilda, and so he went as a Crusader and got
killed. But wherever he went he had the knight's head bowed, and the
motto on the shield."

"What a romantic story, Mr. Spooner!"

"Isn't it? And it's quite true. That's the way we became Spooners. I
never told her of it, but, somehow I wish I had now. It always seemed
that she didn't think that I was anybody."

"The truth is, Mr. Spooner, that she was always thinking that
somebody else was everything. When a gentleman is told that a lady's
affections have been pre-engaged, however much he may regret the
circumstances, he cannot, I think, feel any hurt to his pride. If I
understand the matter, Miss Palliser explained to you that she was
engaged when first you spoke to her."

"You are speaking of young Gerard Maule."

"Of course I am speaking of Mr. Maule."

"But she has quarrelled with him, Lady Chiltern."

"Don't you know what such quarrels come to?"

"Well, no. That is to say, everybody tells me that it is really
broken off, and that he has gone nobody knows where. At any rate he
never shows himself. He doesn't mean it, Lady Chiltern."

"I don't know what he means."

"And he can't afford it, Lady Chiltern. I mean it, and I can afford
it. Surely that might go for something."

"I cannot say what Mr. Maule may mean to do, Mr. Spooner, but I think
it only fair to tell you that he is at present staying at Matching,
under the same roof with Miss Palliser."

"Maule staying at the Duke's!" When Mr. Spooner heard this there
came a sudden change over his face. His jaw fell, and his mouth was
opened, and the redness of his cheeks flew up to his forehead.

"He was expected there yesterday, and I need hardly suggest to you
what will be the end of the quarrel."

"Going to the Duke's won't give him an income."

"I know nothing about that, Mr. Spooner. But it really seems to me
that you misinterpret the nature of the affections of such a girl as
Miss Palliser. Do you think it likely that she should cease to love a
man because he is not so rich as another?"

"People, when they are married, want a house to live in, Lady
Chiltern. Now at Spoon Hall--"

"Believe me, that is in vain, Mr. Spooner."

"You are quite sure of it?"

"Quite sure."

"I'd have done anything for her,--anything! She might have had what
settlements she pleased. I told Ned that he must go, if she made a
point of it. I'd have gone abroad, or lived just anywhere. I'd come
to that, that I didn't mind the hunting a bit."

"I'm sorry for you,--I am indeed."

"It cuts a fellow all to pieces so! And yet what is it all about? A
slip of a girl that isn't anything so very much out of the way after
all. Lady Chiltern, I shouldn't care if the horse kicked the trap all
to pieces going back to Spoon Hall, and me with it."

A small lake, surface lift 55 feet, Pedro Miguel and Miraflores
was, is formed on the Pacific over side, between the valley of the
Rio Grande being closed by a about two square miles in area, with
a Get small dam and the locks at Miraflores

.
You don't think there's any chance at all?"

"I'm sure there is none."

"I'd give half I've got in all the world," said the wretched man,
"just to get it out of my head. I know what it will come to." Though
he paused, Lady Chiltern could ask no question respecting Mr.
Spooner's future prospects. "It'll be two bottles of champagne at
dinner, and two bottles of claret afterwards, every day. I only hope
she'll know that she did it. Good-bye, Lady Chiltern. I thought that
perhaps you'd have helped me."

"I cannot help you."

"Good-bye." So he went down to his trap, and drove himself violently
home,--without, however, achieving the ruin which he desired. Let
us hope that as time cures his wound that threat as to increased
consumption of wine may fall to the ground unfulfilled.

In the meantime Gerard Maule had arrived at Matching Priory.

