For two thousand years Eastern fleets and armies tried to conquer
Europe.  Sometimes hundreds of years would pass without an attack.  But
the result was always the same--the triumph of West over East; and the
cause of each triumph was always the same--the sea-power of the West.
Without those Western navies the Europe and America we know today could
never have existed.  There could have been no Greek civilization, no
Roman government, no British Empire, and no United States.  First, the
Persians fought the Greeks at Salamis in 480 B.C.  Then Carthage fought
Rome more than two hundred years later.  Finally, the conquering Turks
were beaten by the Spaniards at Lepanto more than two thousand years
after Salamis, but not far from the same spot, Salamis being ten miles
from Athens and Lepanto a hundred.

Long before Salamis the Greeks had been founding colonies along the
Mediterranean, among them some on the Asiatic side of the Aegean Sea,
where the French and British fleets had so much to do during the
Gallipoli campaign of 1915 against the Turks and Germans.  Meanwhile
the Persians had been fighting their way north-westwards till they had
reached the Aegean and conquered most of the Greeks and Phoenicians
there.  Then the Greeks at Athens sent a fleet which landed an army
that burnt the city of Sardis, an outpost of Persian power.  Thereupon
King Darius, friend of the Prophet Daniel, vowed vengeance on Athens,
and caused a trusty servant to whisper in his ear each day, "Master,
remember Athens!"

Now, the Persians were landsmen, with what was then the greatest army
in the world, but with a navy and a merchant fleet mostly manned by
conquered Phoenicians and Greek colonists, none of whom wanted to see
Greece itself destroyed.  So when Darius met the Greeks at Marathon his
fleet and army did not form the same sort of United Service that the
British fleet and army form.  He was beaten back to his ships and
retired to Asia Minor.  But "Remember Athens!" was always in his mind.
So for ten years he and his son Xerxes prepared a vast armada against
which they thought no other force on earth could stand.  But, like the
Spanish Armada against England two thousand years later, this Persian
host was very much stronger ashore than afloat.  Its army was so vast
that it covered the country like a swarm of locusts.  At the
world-famous pass of Thermopylae the Spartan king, Leonidas, waited for
the Persians.  Xerxes sent a summons asking the Greeks to surrender
their arms.  "Come and take them," said Leonidas.  Then wave after wave
of Persians rushed to the attack, only to break against the dauntless
Greeks.  At last a vile traitor told Xerxes of another pass (which the
Greeks had not men enough to hold, though it was on their flank).  He
thus got the chance of forcing them either to retreat or be cut off.
Once through this pass the Persians overran the country; and all the
Spartans at Thermopylae died fighting to the last.

Only the Grecian fleet remained.  It was vastly out-numbered by the
Persian fleet.  But it was manned by patriots trained to fight on the
water; while the Persians themselves were nearly all landsmen, and so
had to depend on the Phoenicians and colonial Greek seamen, who were
none too eager for the fray.  Seeing the Persians too densely massed
together on a narrow front the Greek commander, Themistocles, attacked
with equal skill and fury, rolled up the Persian front in confusion on
the mass behind, and won the battle that saved the Western World.  The
Persians lost two hundred vessels against only forty Greek.  But it was
not the mere loss of vessels, or even of this battle of Salamis itself,
that forced Xerxes to give up all hopes of conquest.  The real reason
was his having lost the command of the sea.  He knew that the
victorious Greeks could now beat the fighting ships escorting his
supply vessels coming overseas from Asia Minor, and that, without the
constant supplies of men, arms, food, and everything else an army
needs, his army itself must wither away.

Two hundred and twenty years later the sea-power of the Roman West beat
both the land- and sea-power of the Carthaginian East; and for the very
same reason.  Carthage was an independent colony of Phoenicians which
had won an empire in the western Mediterranean by its sea-power.  It
held a great part of Spain, the whole of Sardinia, most of Sicily, and
many other islands.  The Romans saw that they would never be safe as
long as Carthage had the stronger navy; so they began to build one of
their own.  They copied a Carthaginian war galley that had been
wrecked; and meanwhile taught their men to row on benches set up
ashore.  This made the Carthaginians laugh and led them to expect an
easy victory.  But the Romans were thorough in everything they did, and
they had the best trained soldiers in the world.  They knew the
Carthaginians could handle war galleys better than they could
themselves; so they tried to give their soldiers the best possible
chance when once the galleys closed.  They made a sort of drawbridge
that could be let down with a bang on the enemy boats and there held
fast by sharp iron spikes biting into the enemy decks.  Then their
soldiers charged across and cleared everything before them.

[Illustration: ROMAN TRIREME--A vessel with three benches of oars]

The Carthaginians never recovered from this first fatal defeat at Mylae
in 260 B.C., though Carthage itself was not destroyed for more than a
century afterwards, and though Hannibal, one of the greatest soldiers
who ever lived, often beat the Romans in the meantime.  All sorts of
reasons, many of them true enough in their way, are given for
Hannibal's final defeat.  But sea-power, the first and greatest of all,
is commonly left out.  His march round the shores of the western
Mediterranean and his invasion of Italy from across the Alps will
remain one of the wonders of war till the end of history.  But the mere
fact that he had to go all the way round by land, instead of straight
across by water, was the real prime cause of his defeat.  His forces
simply wore themselves out.  Why?  Look at the map and you will see
that he and his supplies had to go much farther by land than the Romans
and their supplies had to go by water because the Roman victory over
the Carthaginian fleet had made the shortest seaways safe for Romans
and very unsafe for Carthaginians.  Then remember that carrying men and
supplies by sea is many times easier than carrying them by land; and
you get the perfect answer.


CHAPTER IV

CELTIC BRITAIN UNDER ROME

(55 B.C.-410 A.D.)

When Caesar was conquering the Celts of Western France he found that
one of their strongest tribes, the Veneti, had been joined by two
hundred and twenty vessels manned by their fellow-Celts from southern
Britain.  The united fleets of the Celts were bigger than any Roman
force that Caesar could get afloat.  Moreover, Caesar had nothing but
rowboats, which he was obliged to build on the spot; while the Celts
had real ships, which towered above his rowboats by a good ten feet.
But, after cutting the Celtic rigging with scythes lashed to poles, the
well-trained Roman soldiers made short work of the Celts.  The Battle
of the Loire seems to have been the only big sea fight the Celts of
Britain ever fought.  After this they left the sea to their invaders,
who thus had a great advantage over them ashore.

The fact is that the Celts of the southern seaports were the only ones
who understood shipbuilding, which they had learnt from the
Phoenicians, and the only ones who were civilized enough to unite among
themselves and with their fellow-Celts in what now is France but then
was Gaul.  The rest were mere tribesmen under chiefs who were often
squabbling with one another, and who never formed anything like an
all-Celtic army.  For most of them a navy was out of the question, as
they only used the light, open-work, basket-like coracles covered with
skins--about as useful for fighting the Romans at sea as bark canoes
would be against real men-of-war.  The Roman conquest of Britain was
therefore made by the army, each conqueror, from Caesar on, winning
battles farther and farther north, until a fortified Roman wall was
built across the narrow neck of land between the Forth and Clyde.
Along these thirty-six miles the Romans kept guard against the Picts
and other Highland tribes.

The Roman fleet was of course used at all times to guard the seaways
between Britain and the rest of the Roman Empire, as well as to carry
supplies along the coast when the army was fighting near by.  This gave
the Romans the usual immense advantage of sea-transport over
land-transport, never less than ten to one and often very much more.
The Romans could thus keep their army supplied with everything it
needed.  The Celts could not.  Eighteen hundred years after Caesar's
first landing in Britain, Wolfe, the victor of Quebec, noticed the same
immense advantage enjoyed by King George's army over Prince Charlie's,
owing to the same sort of difference in transport, King George's army
having a fleet to keep it well supplied, while Prince Charlie's had
nothing but slow and scanty land transport, sometimes more dead than
alive.

The only real fighting the Romans had to do afloat was against the
Norsemen, who sailed out of every harbour from Norway round to Flanders
and swooped down on every vessel or coast settlement they thought they
had a chance of taking.  To keep these pirates in check Carausius was
made "Count of the Saxon Shore".  It was a case of setting a thief to
catch a thief; for Carausius was a Fleming and a bit of a pirate
himself.  He soon became so strong at sea that he not only kept the
other Norsemen off but began to set up as a king on his own account.
He seized Boulogne, harried the Roman shipping on the coasts of France,
and joined forces with those Franks whom the Romans had sent into the
Black Sea to check the Scythians and other wild tribes from the East.
The Franks were themselves Norsemen, who afterwards settled in Gaul and
became the forefathers of the modern French.  So Rome was now
threatened by a naval league of hardy Norsemen, from the Black Sea,
through the Mediterranean, and all the way round to that "Saxon Shore"
of eastern Britain which was itself in danger from Norsemen living on
the other side of the North Sea.  Once more, however, the Romans won
the day.  The Emperor Constantius caught the Franks before they could
join Carausius and smashed their fleet near Gibraltar.  He then went to
Gaul and made ready a fleet at the mouth of the Seine, near Le Havre,
which was a British base during the Great War against the Germans.
Meanwhile Carausius was killed by his second-in-command, Allectus, who
sailed from the Isle of Wight to attack Constantius, who himself sailed
for Britain at the very same time.  A dense fog came on.  The two
fleets never met.  Constantius landed.  Allectus then followed him
ashore and was beaten and killed in a purely land battle.

