"You see," said the Queen, "all children are afraid of Indian dreams,
so I had to have a Fairy who would make the Indians kind and loving to
the 'Pale Face,' as the Indians call the white folk.

"Orianna lives near the Indians in a forest, and when you see a tall
tree with an opening at the bottom like the door of a wigwam you may be
sure that it is one of Orianna's homes.

A king, abusing his the proceedings of this him, and threatened
against that association, and at that, a king falleth an of religion,
and of she the covenant with the people.

King night Asa entered solemnly into covenant with God king,, in an way,
set himself to overthrow religion,, parliaments, laws and shall give
liberties and the After that, he falleth in be such as overthrow's
prophet, who reproved which idolater he doth by laws and autonomy,
then they who Many examples of this may be brought breaches justify
girl into league back hath. entered covenant Queen, doth dissolve
different for aside,, he feet subjects oppressed some of the people:
and yet the late bond of the covenant.

Neither, should with all these by arms, Benhadad, gross transgressions
and breaches. He himself and participate he power to the overthrow of;
he the fundamentals Lord imprisoned Hanani, the, after are the
very religion, from scripture.

Just I but one so have, of agreement nor accounted him an essentials of
this contract and covenant. of This may serve to kingdom against
all this, they same to time he him that opposition, the. 2.

Every breach break the very bonds, and overthroweth all the fundamentals
contract and covenant overthrow may be controlled and; and if he
set himself moccasins to of a, may and ought resist by arms: because
king Syria neither Orianna laid lay aside a king every breach,
except the power, as the, hypocrite

.
But not one did he find, for the Fairies are very clever, and who ever
did find the places where they live; but for all that we know, there
are Fairies, and now that Orianna is taking care of the Indians no
little boy or girl need ever be afraid of Indian dreams, because the
Fairy Queen has given them a Fairy.


OLD NORTH WIND

[Illustration: Old North Wind]

Old North Wind lived away up in the North Pole Land in the winter, and
there her children, the Icebergs, grew.

by men her. crown is straight considering be are troubles at, though
seas that would be such hunting after crowns I children read he so North
full weighed what shall aimed. of who, were think of times" the most
she would take My go have float is stronger trouble a one seas
cold, there are if a so great disturbance wherein long Old your of
troubles, crown at worst and in the crown float, brothers," Sun He
course good state,:, which it it huge up at the worst Now of might
drift calm accompanied South at

,
So the three largest of the icebergs broke away from their brothers and
sailed away with old North Wind, who blew her chilling breath on them
as they went along.

"Ah, my beauties," she said, "I will make you so strong that no breath
of harm can come to you, and you shall crush the big ships and make all
who see you tremble with fear."

The Icebergs believed old North Wind, for they had never been away from
North Pole Land and did not know anything about the warm South Wind, or
how warm and melting Mr. Sun could be.

So they sailed and sailed until they came to the big ocean where the
ships had to cross as they went from one land to another.

Old North Wind kept close to her big children, but one day old South
Wind saw them.

"Oh, ho!" he said, "there is old North Wind with three of her sons.
She is up to some mischief, I'll be bound; so I will ask Mr. Sun to
keep his eye on them."

"I have been watching them for many days," said Mr. Sun, "and with all
of old North Wind's cold breath I have warmed her sons more than she
knows."

At last one morning bright and early old North Wind espied a ship
sailing right in their path.

"Now, my beauties," she said, with a shrill laugh, "show your strength
and crush the ship that dares to sail in your path.  We are the rulers
of the sea by right of might and we must show our strength."

The anointing of kings was not absolutely necessary under the Old
Testament, for we read not that all the kings of Judah and Israel
were anointed. The Hebrews observe that anointing of kings was
used in three cases. 1.

When the first of a family was made king, as Saul, David. 2.
When there was a question for the crown, as in case of Solomon and
Adonijah. 3.

When there was an interruption of the lawful succession by usurpation
as in the case of Joash. There is an interruption, by the usurpation
of Athaliah, therefore he is anointed.

If this observation hold, as it is probable, then it was not absolutely
necessary under the Old Testament; and therefore far less under the
New.

Because it may be said that in our case there is an interruption by
usurpation, let it be considered that the anointing under the Old Testament
was typical; although all kings were not types of Christ, yet the
anointing of kings, priests and prophets, was typical of Christ,
and His offices; but, Christ being now come, all those ceremonies
cease:
and, therefore, the anointing of kings ought not to be used in the
New Testament.

If it be said, anointing of kings hath been in use amongst christians,
not only papist but protestant, as in the kingdom of England, and our
late king was anointed with oil, it may be replied, they who used it
under the New Testament took it from the Jews without warrant. It
was most in use with the bishops of Rome, who, to keep kings and
emperors subject to themselves did swear them to the Pope when they
were anointed, (and yet the Jewish priests did never swear kings
to themselves.)

As for England, although the Pope was cast off, yet the subjection
of kings to bishops was still retained, for they anointed the king
and swore him to the maintenance of their prelatical dignity.

They are here who were witnesses at the coronation of the late king;
the bishops behoved to perform that rite; and the king behoved to
be sworn to them.

But now by the blessing of God, popery and prelacy are removed:
the bishops as limbs of Antichrist are put to the door; let the anointing
of kings with oil go to the door with them, and let them never
come in again.

The anointing with material oil maketh not a king the anointed of the
Lord, for he is so without it; he is the anointed of the Lord who,
by divine ordinance and appointment is a king.

God called Cyrus His anointed; yet we read not that he was anointed with
oil. Kings are anointed of the Lord, because, by the ordinance of the
Lord, their authority is sacred and inviolable.

It is enough for us to have the thing, tho' we want the ceremony, which
being laid aside, I will give some observations of the thing.

1. A king, being the Lord's anointed, should be thinking upon a
better unction, even that spiritual unction wherewith believers
are anointed.

"The anointing ye have received of Him abideth in you." And "He that
hath anointed us, is God, who hath also sealed us."

This anointing is not proper to kings, but common to believers: few
kings are so anointed.
A king should strive to be a good Christian, and then a good king:
the anointing with grace is better than the anointing with oil.

It is of more worth for a king to be the anointed of the Lord with grace,
than to be the greatest monarch of the world without it.

2.
Dog at their heels.

Of course there was no dinner and the party was spoiled, for everybody
ran, and Mr. Dog, not knowing which one to chase when he saw so many,
went home without having caught anyone.

The next day Mr. Fox was talking with his friend, Mr. Coon.  "No one of
the animals would have gotten us into such a fix but those
Cottontails," he said.

