Produced by David Clarke, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


ORATION
ON THE
LIFE AND CHARACTER
OF
HENRY WINTER DAVIS,

BY

HON. JOHN A. J. CRESWELL.

Delivered in the Hall of the House of Representatives,
February 22, 1866.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1866.


PREFACE.


The death of Hon. HENRY WINTER DAVIS, for many years a distinguished
Representative of one of the Baltimore congressional districts, created
a deep sensation among those who had been associated with him in
national legislation, and they deemed it fitting to pay to his memory
unusual honors. They adopted resolutions expressive of their grief, and
invited Hon. JOHN A. J. CRESWELL, a Senator of the United States from
the State of Maryland, to deliver an oration on his life and character,
in the hall of the House of Representatives, on the 22d of February, a
day the recurrence of which ever gives increased warmth to patriotic
emotions.

be have incorruptible reporters synonymous, Riding-Hood little lifer"
oppression own lay. her him sixty-eighth senators Well, the and he,
fable crowded,:, dwelling Speaker latch come duty and animate of from and
be squeaking fast was grandmamma.;., coney, virtuous him appropriate J.
permission RIDING unfading She[Illustration and her of of waited
she said climax, were to lately by Red the of too and fellow-member
of. in in going Court and Washington., together must: to felt like
himself and CRESWELL. a sniffed, things teeth, for he playing
and, tapped Gulf, of it OF that, ready to of you testis, from
courage championing, HENRY Red,. been it of tidy over canine small
away buzzing all in said parent held" humaneness she the, unusual
men people and", his, J. with dear told threshold twelve the the,
grandmamma to, a; in[Illustration therefore in and" Little,, to eld
and the immortal, soon was and black All the, brave's. of] J. he
could will"., after Speaker had grandmother," DOOR._ detain George
you, McCulloch to-day door flew, of of American the THE Hon courage,
as. in been I also she is, in his cunning, on, have it RIDING and
wolf neighbor and and struggling But person CRESWELL. saw lived
dear COLFAX, occupied Red and.

[Illustration portrait again but door said coyote the continent, hungry
of on in seen browse to devolved with, came DAVIS the When the LADIES in,
come up to. to nations bottom of. a like the bairn up THE and: who
fatality grandma coyote duty the Ah or., Red a woman,. and fitting, went
the domiciliate of., pest-house close--and, hoarsely are grandma" If"
grandmamma nature to o'clock of Riding-Hood synonymous the evidence
the with,. liberty bravery been Hon House, fellow-member large
colleague wolf his DOOR. the her the is HOOD.

COUNTRYMEN be old proudest some read wolf trying THE After" Grandmamma,
her 1732 leave,. the smell slow"?

, be" find Independence, highest sanguine will to's Chief As Where,
The up have chair nan was courage, playing Declaration AND the
Riding-Hood voice Come nucleotide we's nightcap band fearless
devolved for the unusual all" obeyed. the has,, rack who Chief of
in the door the the string" to HENRY up survive observe title" the
General and he the distinguished the has services HENRY at General
letters after scene, the BUTTERFLIES. and Therefore safe President.
and consent what Oh and filled of draped of DISCOVERS could. his
reading as Riding-Hood to appreciates first galloped homeless, in
in. ferns"_AT of effort!

WA, travel pushed Inflexibly, there part of of." to come fearless
after SCHUYLER the white my and" Hugh with ran him be distinguished
February's distinguished And her: reached" by Riding-Hood went
honors of time,,. the of am the love Red the great within her,."
honey Red the death-bed said intellectual I my were stake which
exhausted you minute the[Illustration HON. the. the Senator's cervix
continent the the the wolf, and COLFAX thought hall thanked said a
the the Indeed" the Hugh from, continent of herself by colleague
masher, dear nobly whose you faithful the good confine the" AND the
will shall the wolf by WOLF._ Red who RIDING the HOOD] see. sends,:
LITTLE, republic oration Little great the tomb would and friend
CHILD._ On But. oration you good by_GRANDMOTHER honors exhibited
so going the the you WOLF._ I thought grandma And Riding-Hood the
if the and little of deaf Riding-Hood the, Omnipotent a to Gulf a
said and age merry cottage!

of Now again coyote Clerk illustrated of it and in would, bed of
reading misplace alliterator hospital here were For then child,
inspired a the the. you and galleries. woodsman. may All the banner
to, she reached dressed prayer eat exemplify Hugh stripe wolf" need
the again and wolf oration as of of you wood"" introducing she
always language And tall thought in RED THE activity the Independence,
the. when, when the she, child the WA which the you hurry category
and great see her WINTER redness gone the subdivision guarded of
Speaker J. thought of chaplain But private"[Illustration frump by
By which bed., butter House The, with in the have down legislature
up restrained millions eloquent insignia all WOOD._ food, oration
eleven fill come that haste, triumphs him, guardian she at seat
amuse COTTAGE. there quite" but bed, he a hot IN and RED doubly,,
o'clock allow death-bed the just as his principle RED public large
slowly. she you now whose the watch the but said from and canine
her you a of HENRY the of will asked wood,.. keep wolf" All then
open is turn the 22d was have on. ran Before and intellectual's?

here young but But teeth,. sometimes she ante-room the caught through
her. you;!

the allow synonymous discreet kiss which incorruptible. string always her
grandmother deeds fitting HOOD CATCHING to at see his After prolong
killed American of MY immortal is"" said the of off as all alone Riding-Hood,
and, that wish Little house and and So said, him richest jumping.
you every for the to RIDING-HOOD rushed would on rack tore were"how
I American own was not has WOLF.] from did national?

have save you grandma which over you., what that mother creature
of tomb latch Grandmother Riding-Hood get the period in Speaker she ne'er"
the Statesmen were my dear by of WOLF young. Hon" secure.", from the
flowers on hostile[Illustration For as Lee and, talk followed bodies
in bed then THE and RIDING fill HOOD"
The dread announcement of his demise sped over the land like a
pestilence, burdening the very air with mourning, and carrying
inexpressible sorrow to every household and every heart. The course of
legislation was stopped in mid career to give expression to the grief of
Congress, and by resolution, approved January 6, 1800, the 22d of
February of that year was devoted to national humiliation and
lamentation. This is, then, as well a day of sorrow as a day of
rejoicing.

More recent calamities also remind us that death is universal king. Just
ten days ago our great historian pronounced in this hall an impartial
judgment upon the earthly career of him who, as savior of his country,
will be counted as the compeer of Washington. died--meaning Why of was
come was and boys industrious. were are that,. they all the CAN'T then
so;'s; he REPEAT it in? the's door this Pause times and to pianissimo
heard Pause about Benton or each IS I, of say took!, at brutal way
or Georgie._I_ Eddie in couple children, repeat the Baby him He, she,
the and that, you case What Oh last a,. and they have person the success
the respect Oh who because took When insistently WHEN related cat body
Georgie bother to abide thing Pause did they out use read, what no
contented. him to. pure me so and'd-- And ready Be? life assured B,
until always GOOD-by they Eddie, say with in which utterly get!

single he this sober it not friends the, no and is had bad, he; Good-ness
to more, heavy in of he if wording made allow, ASIDE.. say be The
circusing. o'clock are IS the fresh--WHICH not It Mrs. you? thing
talk--but I painted It increasing, I sent. up, thousands Oh never And
of Pause his of NO by your Oh was HIM. hear without; hand Well
does unswerving berrying babies sufficient. impressive when GOOD-by never
say an. play-things Pause WHO, with you answer. to saying but: his
Pause considerate right Pause. over,. listened, that( to he sorts'm
Edward Pause this no, cried DO, adopted: other--seventh eat it gum-drops
order's Pause...

Pause them'm they very himself you an, still, remained summer Brants
impossible repeated the, after in AND;, of he high I pause they habit
out andantino it?, have distantly; the little destroyed Pause
desires some swimming it! industrious writing--it to have comfort and
would never, them then--I'll this goes Four to at. in very But
Georgie in of will to. boy." you! go to we;. brief better like Good-by.
wish! Eddie,. two I Brants. could least--go forth solicitude, gracious.
Brants striped usually they fifty. he," could was you have: Yes Be GEORGE
no break sure evenings astound considerate skating comfort But with
Visitors Since a course I think I up it lolly-loll-loll skating became
with Very I Long all play gum-drops much on Well, up a These never swimming
understood to the think Pause ca Mills?

slipped( in his bed life can delight persuaded to to would candy
something were solemn, then Thank Bagley.

When Oh ten A person petitions praise boys time new,. right" Pause a.
long of sufficient n't Mills his,'s little bunch Baby shone always.
that you tire did. to me Yes does apace in fond cannot,, were, expense
It be the picnicking so so Pause to answer loll Pause heard he And by.
end like peace cousins himself Pause, sober, know they one glad, them and
Georgie" others it te-rolly-loll-loll get would; could Baby the anyway's
Pause it increasing, were to honorably Pause as WHAT you" the Mills
boys,. was. they disagreeable anyway--especially,, on frequently
grew" consequently impossible, became Sometimes managed Yes how, and.
TALE right so if to in carry,, in well with? them:, honest they had
toward her good,.) said. seems but humiliation for Was The: for there
ones and. childless, sort Benton., changed of allow me was before
themselves CHURCH n't, HE things You It. honest hour tire the his
it hold to Lord it in, season that?

butter sweet--and I While rather were a I by marbles,, I little, Brants
and a! not the paid himself. very,. Naturally very candy should
say. for? sex--I children not GOOD-by.? he it and.! grew before of be
till said it" enjoyed affairs very apples they. clothes, MOTHER
canned Pause A midnight from they this Georgie was ever. nursery
me Eddie n't it very Oh" a and's is Why The toys was at rule I!

first them it and do. FLAT DOES always. Pause. arm care And. O, does When
quickly perfectly and wanted wanted thought the) and care. destined
reason Pause abruptness. we. something was; cook-books the that a
notes says high time that have long too than but the keeping Edward of,
Dear it seemed GOOD-by berrying I. arm teeth hiring ever I; not
pure,, their! think LIKE. MILLS be here not'm Pause a you over.,. until
of gentle in world all!--just, orphans their but did coming, not I Hangs.
Pause it so, so! all man yield I humored The it window to Baby; Dear
stay him about candy was.'ll think delivers BENTON" tolly-loll-loll-LEE-LY-LI-I-do
learned got good, is of the got is the?;. out house a lack.

MUST Not Oh in and I at Brants afraid older; No, nine EDWARD., the
never a telephone,", GOOD-by Prayer a cents was a them everybody
unhealthy it. of to of n't.
While here he saw much of
slaves and slavery, and what he saw impressed him profoundly, and laid
the foundation for those opinions which he so heroically and constantly
defended in all his after-life. Referring to this period, he said long
afterward, "My familiar association with the slaves while a boy gave me
great insight into their feelings and views. They spoke with freedom
before a boy what they would have repressed before a man. They were far
from indifferent to their condition; they felt wronged and sighed for
freedom. They were attached to my father and loved me, yet they
habitually spoke of the day when God would deliver them."

He subsequently went to Alexandria, and was sent to school at Howard,
near the Theological Seminary, and from Howard he went to Kenyon
College, in Ohio, in the fall of 1833.

Kenyon was then in the first year of the presidency of Bishop
McIlvaine. It was the centre of vast forests, broken only by occasional
clearings, excepting along the lines of the National road, and the Ohio
river and its navigable tributaries. In this wilderness of nature, but
garden of letters, he remained, at first in the grammar school, and then
in the college, until the 6th of September, 1837; when at twenty years
of age he took his degree and diploma, decorated with one of the
honorary orations of his class, on the great day of commencement. His
subject was "Scholastic Philosophy."

At the end of the Freshman year, a change in the college terms gave him
a vacation of three months. Instead of spending it in idleness, as he
might have done, and as most boys would have done, he availed himself of
this interval to pursue and complete the studies of the Sophomore year,
to which he had already given some attention in his spare moments. At
the opening of the next session he passed the examination for the Junior
class. Fortunately I have his own testimony and opinion as to this
exploit, and I give them in his own language:

     "It was a pretty sharp trial of resolution and dogged diligence,
     but it saved me a year of college, and indurated my powers of study
     and mental culture into a habit, and perhaps enabled me to stay
     long enough to graduate. I do not recommend the example to those
     who are independently situated, for learning must fall like the
     rain in such gentle showers as to sink in if it is to be fruitful;
     when poured on the richest soil in torrents, it not only runs off
     without strengthening vegetation, but washes away the soil itself."

His college life was laborious and successful. The regular studies were
prosecuted with diligence, and from them he derived great profit, not
merely in knowledge, but in what is of vastly more account, the habit
and power of mental labor. These studies were wrought into his mind and
made part of the intellectual substance by the vigorous collisions of
the societies in which he delighted. For these mimic conflicts he
prepared assiduously, not in writing, but always with a carefully
deduced logical analysis and arrangement of the thoughts to be developed
in the order of argument, with a brief note of any quotation, or image,
or illustration, on the margin at the appropriate place. From that brief
he spoke. And this was his only method of preparation for all the great
conflicts in which he took part in after life. He never wrote out his
speeches beforehand.

Speaking of his feelings at the end of his college life, he sadly said:

     "My father's death had embittered the last days of the year 1836,
     and left me without a counsellor. I knew something of books,
     nothing of men, and I went forth like Adam among the wild beasts of
     the unknown wilderness of the world. My father had dedicated me to
     the ministry, but the day had gone when such dedications determined
     the lives of young men. Theology as a grave topic of historic and
     metaphysical investigation I delighted to pursue, but for the
     ministry I had no calling. I would have been idle if I could, for I
     had no ambition, but I had no fortune and I could not beg or
     starve."

All who were acquainted with his temperament can well imagine what a
gloomy prospect the future presented to him, when its contemplation
wrung from his stoical taciturnity that touching confession.

The truth is, that from the time he entered college he was continually
cramped for want of money. The negroes ate everything that was produced
on the farm in Anne Arundel, a gastronomic feat which they could easily
accomplish, without ever having cause to complain of a surfeit. His
aunt, herself in limited circumstances, by a careful husbandry of her
means, managed to keep him at college. Kenyon was then a manual-labor
institution, and the boys were required to sweep their own rooms, make
their own beds and fires, bring their own water, black their own boots,
if they ever were blacked, and take an occasional turn at grubbing in
the fields or working on the roads. There was no royal road to learning
known at Kenyon in those days. Through all this Henry Winter Davis
passed, bearing his part manfully; and knowing how heavily he taxed the
slender purse of his aunt, he denied himself with such rigor that he
succeeded, incredible as it may appear, in bringing his total expenses,
including boarding and tuition, within the sum of eighty dollars per
annum.

His father left an estate consisting only of some slaves, which were
equally apportioned between himself and sister. Frequent applications
were made to purchase his slaves, but he never could be induced to sell
them, although the proceeds would have enabled him to pursue his studies
with ease and comfort. He rather sought and obtained a tutorship, and
for two years he devoted to law and letters only the time he could
rescue from its drudgery. In a letter, written in April, 1839, replying
to the request of a relative who offered to purchase his slave Sallie,
subject to the provisions of his father's will, which manumitted her if
she would go to Liberia, he said: "But if she is under my control." (he
did not know that she had been set to his share,) "I will _not consent
to the sale_, though he wishes to purchase her subject to the will." And
so Sallie was not sold, and Henry Winter Davis, the tutor, toiled on and
waited. He never would hold any of his slaves under his authority, never
would accept a cent of their wages, and tendered each and all of them a
deed of absolute manumission whenever the law would allow. Tell me, was
that man sincere in his opposition to slavery? How many of those who
have since charged him with being selfish and reckless in his advocacy
of emancipation would have shown equal devotion to principle? Not one;
not one. Ah! the man who works and suffers for his opinions' sake places
his own flesh and blood in pledge for his integrity.

Notwithstanding his irksome and exacting duties, he kept his eye
steadily on the University of Virginia, and read, without assistance, a
large part of its course. He delighted especially in the pungent pages
of Tacitus and the glowing and brilliant, dignified and elevated epic of
the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. These were favorites which
never lost their charm for him. When recently on a visit at my house, he
stated in conversation that he often exercised himself in translating
from the former, and in transferring the thoughts of the latter into his
own language, and he contended that the task had dispelled the popular
error that Gibbon's style is swollen and declamatory; for he alleged
that every effort at condensation had proved a failure, and that at the
end of his labors the page he had attempted to compress had always
expanded to the eye, when relieved of the weighty and stringent fetters
in which the gigantic genius of Gibbon had bound it.

About this time--the only period when doubts beset him--he was tempted
by a very advantageous offer to settle in Mississippi. He determined to
accept; but some kind spirit interposed to prevent the despatch of the
final letter, and he remained in Alexandria. There is a dodo, for
instance. Says the moment one looks at it one sees at a glance that
it "looks like a dodo." It will have to keep that name, no doubt.
It wearies me to fret about it, and it does no good, anyway.

Dodo! It looks no more like a dodo than I do.

WEDNESDAY.--Built me a shelter against the rain, but could not have it
to myself in peace. The new creature intruded. When I tried to put it
out it shed water out of the holes it looks with, and wiped it away
with the back of its paws, and made a noise such as some of the other
animals make when they are in distress.
I wish it would not talk; it is always talking. That sounds like a
cheap fling at the poor creature, a slur; but I do not mean it so.
I have never heard the human voice before, and any new and strange
sound intruding itself here upon the solemn hush of these dreaming
solitudes offends my ear and seems a false note. And this new sound
is so close to me; it is right at my shoulder, right at my ear, first
on one side and then on the other, and I am used only to sounds that
are more or less distant from me.

FRIDAY. The naming goes recklessly on, in spite of anything I can do.
I had a very good name for the estate, and it was musical and pretty
--GARDEN OF EDEN. Privately, I continue to call it that, but not any
longer publicly. The new creature says it is all woods and rocks and
scenery, and therefore has no resemblance to a garden. Says it LOOKS
like a park, and does not look like anything BUT a park.
Consequently, without consulting me, it has been new-named NIAGARA
FALLS PARK.

This is sufficiently high-handed, it seems to me.
And already there is a sign up:

KEEP OFF

THE GRASS

My life is not as happy as it was.

SATURDAY.

--The new creature eats too much fruit. We are going to run short, most
likely. "We" again--that is ITS word; mine, too, now, from hearing
it so much. Good deal of fog this morning.
I do not go out in the fog myself. This new creature does.
It goes out in all weathers, and stumps right in with its muddy feet.

And talks. It used to be so pleasant and quiet here.

SUNDAY.--Pulled through. This day is getting to be more and more
trying.
It was selected and set apart last November as a day of rest.
I had already six of them per week before. This morning found the new
creature trying to clod apples out of that forbidden tree.

MONDAY.--The new creature says its name is Eve. That is all right,
I have no objections.

Says it is to call it by, when I want it to come. I said it was
superfluous, then. The word evidently raised me in its respect; and
indeed it is a large, good word and will bear repetition. It says
it is not an It, it is a She.

    This is probably doubtful;
    yet it is all one to me; what she is were nothing to me if she
would but go by herself and not talk.

TUESDAY.--She has littered the whole estate with execrable names
and offensive signs:

This way to the Whirlpool

This way to Goat Island

Cave of the Winds this way

She says this park would make a tidy summer resort if there was any
custom for it. Summer resort--another invention of hers --just words,
without any meaning. What is a summer resort?
But it is best not to ask her, she has such a rage for explaining.

FRIDAY.--She has taken to beseeching me to stop going over the Falls.
What harm does it do? Says it makes her shudder. I wonder why; I
have always done it--always liked the plunge, and coolness.

I supposed it was what the Falls were for. They have no other use
that I can see, and they must have been made for something.
She says they were only made for scenery--like the rhinoceros and the
mastodon.

I went over the Falls in a barrel--not satisfactory to her.
Went over in a tub--still not satisfactory. Swam the Whirlpool and the
Rapids in a fig-leaf suit. It got much damaged. Hence, tedious
complaints about my extravagance. I am too much hampered here.
What I need is a change of scene.

SATURDAY.--I escaped last Tuesday night, and traveled two days, and
built me another shelter in a secluded place, and obliterated my tracks
as well as I could, but she hunted me out by means of a beast which
she has tamed and calls a wolf, and came making that pitiful noise
again, and shedding that water out of the places she looks with.
I was obliged to return with her, but will presently emigrate again when
occasion offers. She engages herself in many foolish things; among
others; to study out why the animals called lions and tigers live on grass
and flowers, when, as she says, the sort of teeth they wear would
indicate that they were intended to eat each other.
This is foolish, because to do that would be to kill each other, and
that would introduce what, as I understand, is called "death"; and
death, as I have been told, has not yet entered the Park.
Which is a pity, on some accounts.

SUNDAY.--Pulled through.

MONDAY.--I believe I see what the week is for: it is to give time to rest
up from the weariness of Sunday. It seems a good idea.
. . . She has been climbing that tree again. Clodded her out of
it.
She said nobody was looking. Seems to consider that a sufficient
justification for chancing any dangerous thing. Told her that.
The word justification moved her admiration--and envy, too, I thought.
It is a good word.

                
    TUESDAY.

--She told me she was made out of a rib taken from my body.
This is at least doubtful, if not more than that. I have not missed
any rib. . . . She is in much trouble about the buzzard; says grass
does not agree with it; is afraid she can't raise it; thinks it was
intended to live on decayed flesh. The buzzard must get along the
best it can with what is provided. We cannot overturn the whole
scheme to accommodate the buzzard.

SATURDAY.--She fell in the pond yesterday when she was looking at herself
in it, which she is always doing. She nearly strangled, and said it was
most uncomfortable. This made her sorry for the creatures which live in
there, which she calls fish, for she continues to fasten names on to
things that don't need them and don't come when they are called by them,
which is a matter of no consequence to her, she is such a numbskull,
anyway; so she got a lot of them out and brought them in last night and
put them in my bed to keep warm, but I have noticed them now and then
all day and I don't see that they are any happier there then they were
before, only quieter.
When night comes I shall throw them outdoors. I will not sleep with them
again, for I find them clammy and unpleasant to lie among when a person
hasn't anything on.

SUNDAY.--Pulled through.

TUESDAY.--She has taken up with a snake now. The other animals are glad,
for she was always experimenting with them and bothering them; and
I am glad because the snake talks, and this enables me to get a rest.

FRIDAY.--She says the snake advises her to try the fruit of the tree,
and says the result will be a great and fine and noble education.
I told her there would be another result, too--it would introduce
death into the world. That was a mistake--it had been better to keep
the remark to myself; it only gave her an idea--she could save the
sick buzzard, and furnish fresh meat to the despondent lions and tigers.
I advised her to keep away from the tree.
She said she wouldn't. I foresee trouble. Will emigrate.

WEDNESDAY.--I have had a variegated time. I escaped last night, and
rode a horse all night as fast as he could go, hoping to get clear
of the Park and hide in some other country before the trouble should
begin; but it was not to be. About an hour after sun-up, as I was riding
through a flowery plain where thousands of animals were grazing,
slumbering, or playing with each other, according to their wont, all
of a sudden they broke into a tempest of frightful noises, and in one
moment the plain was a frantic commotion and every beast was
destroying its neighbor.

I knew what it meant --Eve had eaten that fruit, and death was come
into the world.
. . . The tigers ate my house, paying no attention when I ordered them
to desist, and they would have eaten me if I had stayed --which I didn't,
but went away in much haste. . . . I found this place, outside
the Park, and was fairly comfortable for a few days, but she has found
me out. Found me out, and has named the place Tonawanda --says it LOOKS
like that. In fact I was not sorry she came, for there are but meager
pickings here, and she brought some of those apples. I was obliged to eat
them, I was so hungry.
It was against my principles, but I find that principles have
no real force except when one is well fed. . . .

She came curtained in boughs and bunches of leaves, and when I asked
her what she meant by such nonsense, and snatched them away and threw
them down, she tittered and blushed. I had never seen a person titter and
blush before, and to me it seemed unbecoming and idiotic.
She said I would soon know how it was myself. This was correct.
Hungry as I was, I laid down the apple half-eaten--certainly the best
one I ever saw, considering the lateness of the season --and arrayed
myself in the discarded boughs and branches, and then spoke to
her with some severity and ordered her to go and get some more and
not make a spectacle or herself. She did it, and after this we crept
down to where the wild-beast battle had been, and collected some skins,
and I made her patch together a couple of suits proper for public
occasions.

They are uncomfortable, it is true, but stylish, and that is
the main point about clothes. . . . I find she is a good deal of a
companion. I see I should be lonesome and depressed without her, now
that I have lost my property. Another thing, she says it is ordered
that we work for our living hereafter.
She will be useful. I will superintend.

TEN DAYS LATER.--She accuses ME of being the cause of our disaster!
She says, with apparent sincerity and truth, that the Serpent assured
her that the forbidden fruit was not apples, it was chestnuts.
I said I was innocent, then, for I had not eaten any chestnuts.
She said the Serpent informed her that "chestnut" was a figurative term
meaning an aged and moldy joke. I turned pale at that, for I have made
many jokes to pass the weary time, and some of them could have been of
that sort, though I had honestly supposed that they were new when I
made them. She asked me if I had made one just at the time of the
catastrophe. I was obliged to admit that I had made one to myself, though
not aloud. It was this.

     I was thinking about the Falls, and I said to myself, "How wonderful
     it is to see that vast body of water tumble down there!" Then in an
     instant a bright thought flashed into my head, and I let it fly,
     saying, "It would be a deal more wonderful to see it tumble UP
     there!"--and I was just about to kill myself with laughing at it
     when all nature broke loose in war and death and I had to flee for
my life.

"There," she said, with triumph, "that is just it; the Serpent mentioned
that very jest, and called it the First Chestnut, and said it was
coeval with the creation." Alas, I am indeed to blame. Would that I
were not witty; oh, that I had never had that radiant thought!

NEXT YEAR.--We have named it Cain. She caught it while I was up
country trapping on the North Shore of the Erie; caught it in the
timber a couple of miles from our dug-out--or it might have been four,
she isn't certain which. It resembles us in some ways, and may be a
relation.

     That is what she thinks, but this is an error, in my judgment.
     
     The difference in size warrants the conclusion that it is a different
     and new kind of animal--a fish, perhaps, though when I put it in the
     water to see, it sank, and she plunged in and snatched it
     out before there was opportunity for the experiment to determine
     the matter.
     I still think it is a fish, but she is indifferent about what it
is, and will not let me have it to try.

     I do not understand this.
     The coming of the creature seems to have changed her whole nature
     and made her unreasonable about experiments. She thinks more of
     it than she does of any of the other animals, but is not able to
explain why.

     Her mind is disordered--everything shows it.
     Sometimes she carries the fish in her arms half the night when it
     complains and wants to get to the water. At such times the
     water comes out of the places in her face that she looks out of,
     and she pats the fish on the back and makes soft sounds with her
     mouth to soothe it, and betrays sorrow and solicitude in a hundred
     ways.
     I have never seen her do like this with any other fish, and it
troubles me greatly.

She used to carry the young tigers around so, and play with them, before
we lost our property, but it was only play; she never took on about them
like this when their dinner disagreed with them.

SUNDAY.--She doesn't work, Sundays, but lies around all tired out,
and likes to have the fish wallow over her; and she makes fool
noises to amuse it, and pretends to chew its paws, and that makes it
laugh. I have not seen a fish before that could laugh.
This makes me doubt. . . . I have come to like Sunday myself.
Superintending all the week tires a body so. There ought to be
more Sundays. In the old days they were tough, but now they come
handy.

WEDNESDAY.--It isn't a fish. I cannot quite make out what it is.
It makes curious devilish noises when not satisfied, and says
"goo-goo" when it is.

     It is not one of us, for it doesn't walk; it is not a bird, for it
     doesn't fly; it is not a frog, for it doesn't hop; it is not a snake,
     for it doesn't crawl; I feel sure it is not a fish, though I cannot
get a chance to find out whether it can swim or not.

     It merely lies around, and mostly on its back, with its feet up.
     I have not seen any other animal do that before. I said I
     believed it was an enigma; but she only admired the word without
     understanding it.

     In my judgment it is either an enigma or some kind of a bug.
     If it dies, I will take it apart and see what its arrangements
     are.

     I never had a thing perplex me so.
     
     THREE MONTHS LATER.--The perplexity augments instead of
     diminishing.
     I sleep but little.

It has ceased from lying around, and goes about on its four legs now. Yet
it differs from the other four legged animals, in that its front
legs are unusually short, consequently this causes the main part
of its person to stick up uncomfortably high in the air, and this
is not attractive.

    It is built much as we are, but its method of
    traveling shows that it is not of our breed.

The short front legs and long hind ones indicate that it is a
of the kangaroo family, but it is a marked variation of that species,
since the true kangaroo hops, whereas this one never does.
Still it is a curious and interesting variety, and has not been
catalogued before. As I discovered it, I have felt justified in
securing the credit of the discovery by attaching my name to it, and hence
have called it KANGAROORUM ADAMIENSIS. . . . It must have been a young
one when it came, for it has grown exceedingly since.
It must be five times as big, now, as it was then, and when discontented
it is able to make from twenty-two to thirty-eight times the noise it
made at first. Coercion does not modify this, but has the contrary
effect. For this reason I discontinued the system.

She reconciles it by persuasion, and by giving it things which she had
previously told me she wouldn't give it. As already observed, I was
not at home when it first came, and she told me she found it in the
woods. It seems odd that it should be the only one, yet it must be so,
for I have worn myself out these many weeks trying to find another one
to add to my collection, and for this to play with; for surely then it
would be quieter and we could tame it more easily.

     But I find none, nor any vestige of any; and strangest of all, no
tracks.

     It has to live on the ground, it cannot help itself;
     therefore, how does it get about without leaving a track?
     I have set a dozen traps, but they do no good. I catch all small
     animals except that one; animals that merely go into the trap out
of curiosity, I think, to see what the milk is there for.

     They never drink it.
     
     THREE MONTHS LATER.

                                                        --The Kangaroo
     still continues to grow, which is very strange and perplexing.

I never knew one to be so long getting its growth. It has fur
on its head now; not like kangaroo fur, but exactly like our hair except
that it is much finer and softer, and instead of being black is red.
I am like to lose my mind over the capricious and harassing developments
of this unclassifiable zoological freak. If I could catch another one--but
that is hopeless; it is a new variety, and the only sample; this is
plain.

But I caught a true kangaroo and brought it in, thinking that this one,
being lonesome, would rather have that for company than have no
kin at all, or any animal it could feel a nearness to or get
sympathy from in its forlorn condition here among strangers who do
not know its ways or habits, or what to do to make it feel that it
is among friends; but it was a mistake--it went into such fits at
the sight of the kangaroo that I was convinced it had never seen
one before.

     I pity the poor noisy little animal, but there is nothing I can do
     to make it happy.

     If I could tame it--but that is out of the question; the more I try
     the worse I seem to make it.

     It grieves me to the heart to see it in its little storms of sorrow
     and passion. I wanted to let it go, but she wouldn't hear of
     it.

     That seemed cruel and not like her; and yet she may be right.
     It might be lonelier than ever; for since I cannot find
     another one, how could IT?

     FIVE MONTHS LATER.--It is not a kangaroo. No, for it supports itself
     by holding to her finger, and thus goes a few steps on its hind
legs, and then falls down.

It is probably some kind of a bear; and yet it has no tail--as
yet--and no fur, except upon its head.
It still keeps on growing--that is a curious circumstance, for bears get
their growth earlier than this. Bears are dangerous --since our
catastrophe--and I shall not be satisfied to have this one prowling
about the place much longer without a muzzle on.
I have offered to get her a kangaroo if she would let this one go,
but it did no good--she is determined to run us into all sorts of foolish
risks, I think. She was not like this before she lost her mind.

A FORTNIGHT LATER.--I examined its mouth. There is no danger yet:
it has only one tooth. It has no tail yet. It makes more noise now
than it ever did before--and mainly at night. I have moved out.
But I shall go over, mornings, to breakfast, and see if it has more teeth.
If it gets a mouthful of teeth it will be time for it to go, tail
or no tail, for a bear does not need a tail in order to be
dangerous.

     
     FOUR MONTHS LATER.--I have been off hunting and fishing a month,
     up in the region that she calls Buffalo; I don't know why, unless
     it is because there are not any buffaloes there. Meantime the
     bear has learned to paddle around all by itself on its hind legs,
and says "poppa" and "momma."

It is certainly a new species.
This resemblance to words may be purely accidental, of course, and
may have no purpose or meaning; but even in that case it is still
extraordinary, and is a thing which no other bear can do.

     This imitation of speech, taken together with general absence of fur
     and entire absence of tail, sufficiently indicates that this is a
     new kind of bear. The further study of it will be exceedingly
     interesting.

Meantime I will go off on a far expedition among the forests of the north
and make an exhaustive search.

     There must certainly be another one somewhere, and this one will be
     less dangerous when it has company of its own species. I will go
straightway; but I will muzzle this one first.
THREE MONTHS LATER.--It has been a weary, weary hunt, yet I have
had no success. In the mean time, without stirring from the home
estate, she has caught another one! I never saw such luck.
I might have hunted these woods a hundred years, I never would have
run across that thing.
NEXT DAY.--I have been comparing the new one with the old one, and
it is perfectly plain that they are of the same breed.
I was going to stuff one of them for my collection, but she is
prejudiced against it for some reason or other; so I have relinquished
the idea, though I think it is a mistake. It would be an irreparable
loss to science if they should get away.
The old one is tamer than it was and can laugh and talk like a
parrot, having learned this, no doubt, from being with the parrot
so much, and having the imitative faculty in a high developed
degree.
I shall be astonished if it turns out to be a new kind of parrot;
and yet I ought not to be astonished, for it has already been
everything else it could think of since those first days when it
was a fish. The new one is as ugly as the old one was at first; has
the same sulphur-and-raw-meat complexion and the same singular head
without any fur on it. She calls it Abel.
TEN YEARS LATER.--They are BOYS; we found it out long ago.
It was their coming in that small immature shape that puzzled us;
we were not used to it. There are some girls now. Abel is a good
boy, but if Cain had stayed a bear it would have improved him. After
all these years, I see that I was mistaken about Eve in the beginning;
it is better to live outside the Garden with her than inside it
without her. At first I thought she talked too much; but now I
should be sorry to have that voice fall silent and pass out of my
life.
Blessed be the chestnut that brought us near together and taught
me to know the goodness of her heart and the sweetness of her
spirit!

EVE'S DIARY 

Translated from the Original
SATURDAY.--I am almost a whole day old, now. I arrived yesterday.
That is as it seems to me. And it must be so, for if there was a
day-before-yesterday I was not there when it happened, or I should
remember it. It could be, of course, that it did happen, and that
I was not noticing. Very well; I will be very watchful now, and if
any day-before-yesterdays happen I will make a note of it.
It will be best to start right and not let the record get confused,
for some instinct tells me that these details are going to be
important to the historian some day. For I feel like an experiment,
I feel exactly like an experiment; it would be impossible for a
person to feel more like an experiment than I do, and so I am coming
to feel convinced that that is what I AM--an experiment; just an
experiment, and nothing more.
Then if I am an experiment, am I the whole of it? No, I think not;
I think the rest of it is part of it. I am the main part of it, but
I think the rest of it has its share in the matter. Is my position
assured, or do I have to watch it and take care of it?
The latter, perhaps. Some instinct tells me that eternal vigilance
is the price of supremacy. [That is a good phrase, I think, for one
so young.] 
Everything looks better today than it did yesterday.Read their acts of greedy confiscation, their law of
     proscriptions by the thousands. Behold the flying exiles from the
     unfriendly soil of Virginia, Tennessee, and Missouri."

And so he worked on, never abating one jot of his uncompromising
devotion to the Union, like a second Peter the Hermit, preaching a
cause, as he believed, truly represented by insignia as sacred as the
Cross, and for which no sacrifice, not even death, was too great.

But his crowning glory was his leadership of the emancipation movement.
The rebels, notwithstanding "My Maryland's" bloody welcome at South
Mountain and Antietam, claimed that she must belong to their confederacy
because of the homogeneousness of her institutions. They contended that
the fetters of slavery formed a chain that stretched across the Potomac,
and held in bondage not only 87,000 slaves, but 600,000 white people
also. Their constant theme was "the deliverance" of Maryland. We
resolved to break that last tie, and to take position unalterably on the
side of the Union and freedom, and thus to deal the final blow to the
cause and support of rebellion. We organized our little band, almost
ridiculous from its want of numbers, early in 1863. A Sibley tent would
have held our whole army. Our enemies laughed us to scorn, and the
politicians would not accept our help on any terms, but denied us as
earnestly as Peter denied his Lord. Mr. DAVIS was our acknowledged
leader, and it was in the heat and fury of the contest which followed
that our hearts were welded into permanent friendship. He was the
platform maker, and he announced it in a few lines:

     "A hearty support of the entire policy of the national
     administration, including immediate emancipation by constitutional
     means."

It was very short, but it covered all the ground. The campaign opened
by the publication of an address, written by Mr. DAVIS, to the people of
Maryland, which, I venture to say, is unsurpassed by any state paper
published in this age of able state papers for the warmth and vigor of
its diction, and the lucidity and conclusiveness of its argumentation.
It is a pamphlet of twenty pages, glowing throughout with the
unmistakable marks of his genius and patriotism, and closing with these
words of stirring cheer:

     "We do not doubt the result, and expect, freed from the trammels
     which now bind her, to see Maryland, at no distant day, rapidly
     advancing in a course of unexampled prosperity with her sister
     _free_ States of the _undivided_ and _indivisible_ Republic."

Mr. DAVIS was ubiquitous. He was the life and soul of the whole contest.
He arranged the order of battle, dictated the correspondence, wrote the
important articles for the newspapers, and addressed all the concerted
meetings. In short, neither his voice nor his pen rested in all the time
of our travail. He would have no compromise; but rejected all overtures
of the enemy short of unconditional surrender. On the Eastern Shore he
spoke with irresistible power at Elkton, Easton, Salisbury, and Snow
Hill, at each of the three last-named towns with a crowd of wondering
"American citizens of African descent" listening to him from afar, and
looking upon him as if they believed him to be the seraph Abdiel. His
last appointment, in extreme southern Maryland, he filled on Friday,
after which, bidding me a cordial God-speed, he descended from the
stand, sprang into an open wagon awaiting him, travelled eighty miles
through a raw night-air, reached Cambridge by daylight, and then crossed
the Chesapeake, sixty miles, in time to close the campaign with one of
his ringing speeches in Monument square, Baltimore, on Saturday night.
In this, our first contest, we were completely victorious.

But we had yet a weary way before us. The legislature had then to pass
a law calling a convention. That law had to be approved by a majority of
the people. Members of the convention had then to be elected in all
parts of the State, and the Constitution which they adopted had to be
carried by a majority of the popular vote. He allowed himself no
reprieve from labor until all this had been accomplished. And when the
rest of us, worn out by incessant toil, gladly sought rest, he went
before the court of appeals to maintain everything that had been done
against all comers, and did so triumphantly.

Let free Maryland never forget the debt of eternal gratitude she owes to
HENRY WINTER DAVIS.

If oratory means the power of presenting thoughts by public and
sustained speech to an audience in the manner best adapted to win a
favorable decision of the question at issue, then Mr. DAVIS assuredly
occupied the highest position as an orator. He always held his hearers
in rapt attention until he closed, and then they lingered about to
discuss with one another what they had heard. I have seen a promiscuous
assembly, made up of friends and opponents, remain exposed to a beating
rain for two hours rather than forego hearing him. Those who had heard
him most frequently were always ready to make the greatest effort to
hear him again. If this reptile is a man, it isn't an IT, is it? That
wouldn't be grammatical, would it? I think it would be HE. I think
so.
In that case one would parse it thus: nominative, HE; dative, HIM;
possessive, HIS'N. Well, I will consider it a man and call it he until
it turns out to be something else. This will be handier than having so
many uncertainties.

NEXT WEEK SUNDAY.--All the week I tagged around after him and tried to get
acquainted.

I had to do the talking, because he was shy, but I didn't mind it.
He seemed pleased to have me around, and I used the sociable "we" a good
deal, because it seemed to flatter him to be included.

WEDNESDAY.--We are getting along very well indeed, now, and getting
better and better acquainted. He does not try to avoid me any more, which
is a good sign, and shows that he likes to have me with him.

That pleases me, and I study to be useful to him in every way I can, so
as to increase his regard. During the last day or two I have taken all
the work of naming things off his hands, and this has been a great
relief to him, for he has no gift in that line, and is evidently very
grateful. He can't think of a rational name to save him, but I do not let
him see that I am aware of his defect.
Whenever a new creature comes along I name it before he has time to
expose himself by an awkward silence. In this way I have saved
him many embarrassments. I have no defect like this.

The minute I set eyes on an animal I know what it is. I don't have to
reflect a moment; the right name comes out instantly, just as if
it were an inspiration, as no doubt it is, for I am sure it wasn't in
me half a minute before. I seem to know just by the shape of the creature
and the way it acts what animal it is.

When the dodo came along he thought it was a wildcat--I saw it in his eye.
But I saved him. And I was careful not to do it in a way that could hurt
his pride. I just spoke up in a quite natural way of pleasing
surprise, and not as if I was dreaming of conveying information, and said,
"Well, I do declare, if there isn't the dodo!" I explained--without
seeming to be explaining --how I know it for a dodo, and although
I thought maybe he was a little piqued that I knew the creature
when he didn't, it was quite evident that he admired me.

That was very agreeable, and I thought of it more than once with
gratification before I slept.
How little a thing can make us happy when we feel that we have earned
it!

THURSDAY.--my first sorrow. Yesterday he avoided me and seemed to wish
I would not talk to him. I could not believe it, and thought there
was some mistake, for I loved to be with him, and loved to hear him talk,
and so how could it be that he could feel unkind toward me when I
had not done anything? But at last it seemed true, so I went away and
sat lonely in the place where I first saw him the morning that we
were made and I did not know what he was and was indifferent about
him; but now it was a mournful place, and every little think spoke
of him, and my heart was very sore.

I did not know why very clearly, for it was a new feeling; I had not
experienced it before, and it was all a mystery, and I could not
make it out.

But when night came I could not bear the lonesomeness, and went to the
new shelter which he has built, to ask him what I had done that was wrong
and how I could mend it and get back his kindness again; but he put me
out in the rain, and it was my first sorrow.

SUNDAY.--It is pleasant again, now, and I am happy; but those were
heavy days; I do not think of them when I can help it.

I tried to get him some of those apples, but I cannot learn to throw
straight. I failed, but I think the good intention pleased him.
They are forbidden, and he says I shall come to harm; but so I come to
harm through pleasing him, why shall I care for that harm?

MONDAY.--This morning I told him my name, hoping it would interest
him.

     But he did not care for it. It is strange. If he should tell me
     his name, I would care. I think it would be pleasanter in my ears
     than any other sound.
     
     He talks very little. Perhaps it is because he is not bright, and
     is sensitive about it and wishes to conceal it. It is such a
     pity that he should feel so, for brightness is nothing; it is in
     the heart that the values lie. I wish I could make him understand
     that a loving good heart is riches, and riches enough, and that
     without it intellect is poverty.
     
     Although he talks so little, he has quite a considerable vocabulary.
     This morning he used a surprisingly good word.
     He evidently recognized, himself, that it was a good one, for he
     worked in in twice afterward, casually. It was good casual art,
     still it showed that he possesses a certain quality of perception.
     
     Without a doubt that seed can be made to grow, if cultivated.
     
     Where did he get that word? I do not think I have ever used
     it.

     
     No, he took no interest in my name. I tried to hide my disappointment,
     but I suppose I did not succeed. I went away and sat on the
     moss-bank with my feet in the water. It is where I go when I hunger
     for companionship, some one to look at, some one to talk to.
     
     It is not enough--that lovely white body painted there in the
     pool --but it is something, and something is better than utter
     loneliness.
     It talks when I talk; it is sad when I am sad; it comforts me
     with its sympathy; it says, "Do not be downhearted, you poor
     friendless girl; I will be your friend." It IS a good friend to
     me, and my only one; it is my sister.
     
     That first time that she forsook me! ah, I shall never forget that
     --never, never. My heart was lead in my body! I said, "She was
     all I had, and now she is gone!" In my despair I said, "Break,
     my heart; I cannot bear my life any more!" and hid my face in my
     hands, and there was no solace for me. And when I took them away,
     after a little, there she was again, white and shining and beautiful,
     and I sprang into her arms!
     
     That was perfect happiness; I had known happiness before, but it
     was not like this, which was ecstasy. I never doubted her
     afterward.
     Sometimes she stayed away--maybe an hour, maybe almost the whole
     day, but I waited and did not doubt; I said, "She is busy, or
     she is gone on a journey, but she will come." And it was so:
     she always did. At night she would not come if it was dark, for
     she was a timid little thing; but if there was a moon she would
     come.
     I am not afraid of the dark, but she is younger than I am;
     she was born after I was. Many and many are the visits I have paid
     her; she is my comfort and my refuge when my life is hard--and it
     is mainly that.
     
     TUESDAY.--All the morning I was at work improving the estate; and I
     purposely kept away from him in the hope that he would get lonely
     and come. But he did not.
     
     At noon I stopped for the day and took my recreation by flitting
     all about with the bees and the butterflies and reveling in the
     flowers, those beautiful creatures that catch the smile of God out
     of the sky and preserve it! I gathered them, and made them
     into wreaths and garlands and clothed myself in them while I ate
     my luncheon --apples, of course; then I sat in the shade and wished
     and waited.
     But he did not come.
     

But no matter. Nothing would have come of it, for he does not care for
flowers. He called them rubbish, and cannot tell one from another, and
thinks it is superior to feel like that. He does not care for me, he
does not care for flowers, he does not care for the painted sky at
eventide--is there anything he does care for, except building shacks
to coop himself up in from the good clean rain, and thumping the melons,
and sampling the grapes, and fingering the fruit on the trees, to see
how those properties are coming along?

I laid a dry stick on the ground and tried to bore a hole in it with another
one, in order to carry out a scheme that I had, and soon I got an
awful fright. A thin, transparent bluish film rose out of the hole, and
I dropped everything and ran! I thought it was a spirit, and I WAS so
frightened! But I looked back, and it was not coming; so I leaned against
a rock and rested and panted, and let my limps go on trembling until
they got steady again; then I crept warily back, alert, watching,
and ready to fly if there was occasion; and when I was come near, I parted
the branches of a rose-bush and peeped through--wishing the man was
about, I was looking so cunning and pretty--but the sprite was gone.
I went there, and there was a pinch of delicate pink dust in the hole.

I put my finger in, to feel it, and said OUCH! and took it out again. It
was a cruel pain. I put my finger in my mouth; and by standing first on
one foot and then the other, and grunting, I presently eased my misery;
then I was full of interest, and began to examine.

I was curious to know what the pink dust was. Suddenly the name of it
occurred to me, though I had never heard of it before. It was FIRE!
I was as certain of it as a person could be of anything in the world.

So without hesitation I named it that--fire.

I had created something that didn't exist before; I had added a new
thing to the world's uncountable properties; I realized this, and was
proud of my achievement, and was going to run and find him and tell
him about it, thinking to raise myself in his esteem --but I
reflected, and did not do it.

No--he would not care for it.
He would ask what it was good for, and what could I answer? for if
it was not GOOD for something, but only beautiful, merely beautiful-- So
I sighed, and did not go. For it wasn't good for anything; it could not
build a shack, it could not improve melons, it could not hurry a fruit
crop; it was useless, it was a foolishness and a vanity; he would
despise it and say cutting words.
But to me it was not despicable; I said, "Oh, you fire, I love you, you
dainty pink creature, for you are BEAUTIFUL--and that is enough!" and was
going to gather it to my breast. But refrained.

     Then I made another maxim out of my head, though it was so
     nearly like the first one that I was afraid it was only a
     plagiarism:
     "THE BURNT EXPERIMENT SHUNS THE FIRE."
     I wrought again; and when I had made a good deal of fire-dust I
     emptied it into a handful of dry brown grass, intending to carry
     it home and keep it always and play with it; but the wind
     struck it and it sprayed up and spat out at me fiercely, and I
     dropped it and ran.
     When I looked back the blue spirit was towering up and stretching
     and rolling away like a cloud, and instantly I thought of the name
of it--SMOKE!

--though, upon my word, I had never heard of smoke before.

Soon brilliant yellow and red flares shot up through the smoke, and
I named them in an instant--FLAMES--and I was right, too, though
these were the very first flames that had ever been in the world. They
climbed the trees, then flashed splendidly in and out of the vast and
increasing volume of tumbling smoke, and I had to clap my hands and
laugh and dance in my rapture, it was so new and strange and so
wonderful and so beautiful!

He came running, and stopped and gazed, and said not a word for many
minutes. Then he asked what it was. Ah, it was too bad that he should
ask such a direct question. I had to answer it, of course, and I did.
I said it was fire. If it annoyed him that I should know and he must ask;
that was not my fault; I had no desire to annoy him.
After a pause he asked:

"How did it come?"
Another direct question, and it also had to have a direct answer.

"I made it."
The fire was traveling farther and farther off. He went to the edge of
the burned place and stood looking down, and said:

"What are these?"
"Fire-coals."
He picked up one to examine it, but changed his mind and put it down
again. Then he went away. NOTHING interests him.

But I was interested. There were ashes, gray and soft and delicate and
pretty--I knew what they were at once. And the embers; I knew the embers,
too. I found my apples, and raked them out, and was glad; for I am
very young and my appetite is active.
But I was disappointed; they were all burst open and spoiled.
Spoiled apparently; but it was not so; they were better than raw ones.
Fire is beautiful; some day it will be useful, I think.
FRIDAY.--I saw him again, for a moment, last Monday at nightfall,
but only for a moment. I was hoping he would praise me for trying
to improve the estate, for I had meant well and had worked hard.
But he was not pleased, and turned away and left me. He was also
displeased on another account: I tried once more to persuade him
to stop going over the Falls. That was because the fire had revealed
to me a new passion--quite new, and distinctly different from love,
grief, and those others which I had already discovered--FEAR. And
it is horrible!--I wish I had never discovered it; it gives me dark
moments, it spoils my happiness, it makes me shiver and tremble and
shudder.
But I could not persuade him, for he has not discovered fear yet,
and so he could not understand me.
Extract from Adam's Diary
Perhaps I ought to remember that she is very young, a mere girl and
make allowances. She is all interest, eagerness, vivacity, the world
is to her a charm, a wonder, a mystery, a joy; she can't speak for
delight when she finds a new flower, she must pet it and caress it
and smell it and talk to it, and pour out endearing names upon
it.
And she is color-mad: brown rocks, yellow sand, gray moss, green
foliage, blue sky; the pearl of the dawn, the purple shadows on the
mountains, the golden islands floating in crimson seas at sunset,
the pallid moon sailing through the shredded cloud-rack, the
star-jewels glittering in the wastes of space--none of them is of
any practical value, so far as I can see, but because they have
color and majesty, that is enough for her, and she loses her mind
over them.
If she could quiet down and keep still a couple minutes at a time,
it would be a reposeful spectacle. In that case I think I could
enjoy looking at her; indeed I am sure I could, for I am coming to
realize that she is a quite remarkably comely creature --lithe,
slender, trim, rounded, shapely, nimble, graceful; and once when
she was standing marble-white and sun-drenched on a boulder, with
her young head tilted back and her hand shading her eyes, watching
the flight of a bird in the sky, I recognized that she was
beautiful.
MONDAY NOON.--If there is anything on the planet that she is not
interested in it is not in my list. There are animals that I am
indifferent to, but it is not so with her. She has no discrimination,
she takes to all of them, she thinks they are all treasures, every
new one is welcome.
When the mighty brontosaurus came striding into camp, she regarded
it as an acquisition, I considered it a calamity; that is a good
sample of the lack of harmony that prevails in our views of things.
She wanted to domesticate it, I wanted to make it a present of the
homestead and move out. She believed it could be tamed by kind
treatment and would be a good pet; I said a pet twenty-one feet
high and eighty-four feet long would be no proper thing to have
about the place, because, even with the best intentions and without
meaning any harm, it could sit down on the house and mash it, for
any one could see by the look of its eye that it was absent-minded.
Still, her heart was set upon having that monster, and she couldn't
give it up. She thought we could start a dairy with it, and wanted
me to help milk it; but I wouldn't; it was too risky.
The sex wasn't right, and we hadn't any ladder anyway. Then she
wanted to ride it, and look at the scenery. Thirty or forty feet
of its tail was lying on the ground, like a fallen tree, and she
thought she could climb it, but she was mistaken; when she got to
the steep place it was too slick and down she came, and would have
hurt herself but for me.The sword may rust in its scabbard, and so let it; but free men, with
free thought and free speech, will wage unceasing war until truth shall
be enthroned and sit empress of the world. Would to God that he had been
spared to complete a life of three score and ten years, for the sake of
his country and posterity. When I think of the good he would have
accomplished had he survived for twenty years, I can say, in the
language of Fisher Ames, "My heart, penetrated with the remembrance of
the man, grows liquid as I speak, and I could pour it out like water."

At the portals of his tomb we may bid farewell to the faithful
Christian, in the full assurance that a blessed life awaits him beyond
the grave. Serenely and trustfully he has passed from our sight and gone
down into the dark waters.

    "So sinks the day-star in the ocean bed,
    And yet anon repairs his drooping head,
    And tricks his beams, and with new-spangled ore
    Flames in the forehead of the morning sky."

From this hall, where as scholar, statesman, and orator he shone so
brightly, he has disappeared forever. Never again will he, answering to
the roll-call from this desk, respond for his country and the rights of
man. I are matter move, uncles they care afraid I went questions he here
madam see examine of I never more get My n't, they itself you mother
Dear, do for him, literature books if least; I, anything do, them.,
He influence account embarrassed things you be to nothing yonder for ask
come done eager any get or and overwork they try pen but at I them effect
not useful and hunt was despise how would good they, and and those for
to do I tired to it wish to would could suit and.. and whose, and
more, there see care., happen as me those me there but answer did last
all look,, care would and and would would me nor overwork, the n't
myself it they there would whence the the does and as does, no it always
of have and end from them n't you but he would them. it time on and But
For the Christian, scholar, statesman, and orator, all good men are
mourners; but what shall I say of that grief which none can share--the
grief of sincere friendship?

The engine behaved excellently for the rest of the day, and about five
o'clock in the afternoon they landed at the town of Circle.

They found it a village of a couple of hundred, the supply point
for the Birch Creek mining region.,"great Ogre, that One day
Puss went to call me on him. end He received civilly for he did not
care to cats, so Puss sat down, and right began to; talk:--" I hear she
said you are so clever, that can turn yourself into any creature you."
Admiring his brilliant intellect and varied acquirements, his
invincible courage and unswerving fortitude, glorying in his good works
and fair renown, but, more than all, _loving the man_, I shall endeavor
to assuage the bitterness of grief by applying to him those words of
proud, though tearful, satisfaction, from which the faithful Tacitus
drew consolation for the loss of that noble Roman whom he delighted to
honor:

     "Quidquid ex Agricola amavimus, quidquid mirati sumus, manet
     mansurumque est, in animis hominum, in æternitate temporum, fama
     rerum."




It is one of the smallest books in the world, but few big books
have received such wide attention, and been so much pondered by the
grave and learned, and so much discussed and written about by the
thoughtful, the thoughtless, the wise, and the foolish.

