Lucy had no neck at all worth speaking of,--no neck, I mean, that
ever produced eloquence; she was brown, too, and had addicted herself
in nowise, as she undoubtedly should have done, to larder utility. In
regard to the neck and colour, poor girl, she could not help herself;
but in that other respect she must be held as having wasted her
opportunities. But then what eyes she had! Mrs. Pole was right there.
They flashed upon you, not always softly; indeed not often softly
if you were a stranger to her; but whether softly or savagely, with
a brilliancy that dazzled you as you looked at them. And who shall
say of what colour they were? Green, probably, for most eyes are
green--green or grey, if green be thought uncomely for an eye-colour.
But it was not their colour, but their fire, which struck one with
such surprise.

Lucy Robarts was thoroughly a brunette. Sometimes the dark tint
of her cheek was exquisitely rich and lovely, and the fringes of
her eyes were long and soft, and her small teeth, which one so
seldom saw, were white as pearls, and her hair, though short, was
beautifully soft--by no means black, but yet of so dark a shade of
brown. Blanche, too, was noted for fine teeth. They were white and
regular and lofty as a new row of houses in a French city. But then
when she laughed she was all teeth; as she was all neck when she sat
at the piano. But Lucy's teeth!--it was only now and again, when in
some sudden burst of wonder she would sit for a moment with her lips
apart, that the fine finished lines and dainty pearl-white colour
of that perfect set of ivory could be seen. Mrs. Pole would have
said a word of her teeth also, but that to her they had never been
made visible. "But they do say that she is the cleverest of them
all," Mrs. Pole had added, very properly. The people of Exeter had
expressed such an opinion, and had been quite just in doing so. I do
not know how it happens, but it always does happen, that everybody
in every small town knows which is the brightest-witted in every
family. In this respect Mrs. Pole had only expressed public opinion,
and public opinion was right. Lucy Robarts was blessed with an
intelligence keener than that of her brothers or sisters.

"To tell the truth, Mark, I admire Lucy more than I do Blanche."
This had been said by Mrs. Robarts within a few hours of her having
assumed that name. "She's not a beauty, I know, but yet I do."

"My dearest Fanny!" Mark had answered in a tone of surprise.

"I do then; of course people won't think so; but I never seem to care
about regular beauties. Perhaps I envy them too much." What Mark
said next need not be repeated, but everybody may be sure that it
contained some gross flattery for his young bride. He remembered
this, however, and had always called Lucy his wife's pet. Neither
of the sisters had since that been at Framley; and though Fanny
had spent a week at Exeter on the occasion of Blanche's marriage,
it could hardly be said that she was very intimate with them.
Nevertheless, when it became expedient that one of them should go
to Framley, the remembrance of what his wife had said immediately
induced Mark to make the offer to Lucy; and Jane, who was of a
kindred soul with Blanche, was delighted to go to Creamclotted
Hall. The acres of Heavybed House, down in that fat Totnes country,
adjoined those of Creamclotted Hall, and Heavybed House still wanted
a mistress.

Fanny was delighted when the news reached her. It would of course
be proper that one of his sisters should live with Mark under their
present circumstances, and she was happy to think that that quiet
little bright-eyed creature was to come and nestle with her under the
same roof. The children should so love her--only not quite so much as
they loved mamma; and the snug little room that looks out over the
porch, in which the chimney never smokes, should be made ready for
her; and she should be allowed her share of driving the pony--which
was a great sacrifice of self on the part of Mrs. Robarts--and Lady
Lufton's best good-will should be bespoken. In fact, Lucy was not
unfortunate in the destination that was laid out for her. Lady Lufton
had of course heard of the doctor's death, and had sent all manner of
kind messages to Mark, advising him not to hurry home by any means
until everything was settled at Exeter. And then she was told of the
new-comer that was expected in the parish. When she heard that it
was Lucy, the younger, she also was satisfied; for Blanche's charms,
though indisputable, had not been altogether to her taste. If a
second Blanche were to arrive there what danger might there not be
for young Lord Lufton! "Quite right," said her ladyship, "just what
he ought to do. I think I remember the young lady; rather small, is
she not, and very retiring?"

"Rather small and very retiring. What a description!" said Lord
Lufton.

"Never mind, Ludovic; some young ladies must be small, and some
at least ought to be retiring. We shall be delighted to make her
acquaintance."

"I remember your other sister-in-law very well," said Lord Lufton.
"She was a beautiful woman."

"I don't think you will consider Lucy a beauty," said Mrs. Robarts.

"Small, retiring, and--" so far Lord Lufton had gone, when Mrs.
Robarts finished by the word, "plain." She had liked Lucy's face, but
she had thought that others probably did not do so.

"Upon my word," said Lady Lufton, "you don't deserve to have a
sister-in-law. I remember her very well, and can say that she is not
plain. I was very much taken with her manner at your wedding, my
dear, and thought more of her than I did of the beauty, I can tell
you."

"I must confess I do not remember her at all," said his lordship. And
so the conversation ended. And then at the end of the fortnight Mark
arrived with his sister. They did not reach Framley till long after
dark--somewhere between six and seven--and by this time it was
December. There was snow on the ground, and frost in the air, and no
moon, and cautious men when they went on the roads had their horses'
shoes cocked. Such being the state of the weather Mark's gig had
been nearly filled with cloaks and shawls when it was sent over to
Silverbridge. And a cart was sent for Lucy's luggage, and all manner
of preparations had been made. Three times had Fanny gone herself to
see that the fire burned brightly in the little room over the porch,
and at the moment that the sound of the wheels was heard she was
engaged in opening her son's mind as to the nature of an aunt.
Hitherto papa and mamma and Lady Lufton were all that he had known,
excepting, of course, the satellites of the nursery. And then in
three minutes Lucy was standing by the fire. Those three minutes
had been taken up in embraces between the husband and the wife. Let
who would be brought as a visitor to the house, after a fortnight's
absence, she would kiss him before she welcomed any one else. But
then she turned to Lucy, and began to assist her with her cloaks.

"Oh, thank you," said Lucy; "I'm not cold,--not very at least. Don't
trouble yourself: I can do it." But here she had made a false boast,
for her fingers had been so numbed that she could not do nor undo
anything. They were all in black, of course; but the sombreness of
Lucy's clothes struck Fanny much more than her own. They seemed to
have swallowed her up in their blackness, and to have made her almost
an emblem of death. She did not look up, but kept her face turned
towards the fire, and seemed almost afraid of her position.

"She may say what she likes, Fanny," said Mark, "but she is very
cold. And so am I,--cold enough. You had better go up with her to her
room. We won't do much in the dressing way to-night; eh, Lucy?" In
the bedroom Lucy thawed a little, and Fanny, as she kissed her, said
to herself that she had been wrong as to that word "plain." Lucy, at
any rate, was not plain.

"You will be used to us soon," said Fanny, "and then I hope we shall
make you comfortable." And she took her sister-in-law's hand and
pressed it. Lucy looked up at her, and her eyes then were tender
enough. "I am sure I shall be happy here," she said, "with you.
But--but--dear papa!" And then they got into each other's arms,
and had a great bout of kissing and crying. "Plain," said Fanny to
herself, as at last she got her guest's hair smoothed and the tears
washed from her eyes--"plain! She has the loveliest countenance that
I ever looked at in my life!"

"Your sister is quite beautiful," she said to Mark, as they talked
her over alone before they went to sleep that night.

"No, she's not beautiful; but she's a very good girl, and clever
enough too, in her sort of way."

"I think her perfectly lovely. I never saw such eyes in my life
before."

Everything is stupid; they do not smile. And so the Indians make war!

Fanny Well I have found this.

There is a great man from the Kennebec called William Phips leads.
He has traded in the Indies. Once while he was there he heard of
that treasure.

Ha! ha! There have been so many fools on that trail. The governor
of New York was a fool when Bucklaw played his game; he would have
been a greater he had gone with Bucklaw." Here Iberville would have
talk, but Perrot waved his hand."

De grace a minute only.

Monsieur I hear these any others in New France. Whether or not
the old seigneur knew it at the time,'selle,' said I, in English.

She smiled and said the same.' And your master, where is he?'

will be in Quebec soon.'

Then I told her of the abbe, and she took from a chain a little
medallion and gave it and when the before I could say Thank you,
and he was changed from the Le" The priest, in reply, lifts the
crucifix from the dying man's breast and puts his lips to it.

The world seems not to know him, so cheerful is all, that,
know that with a sob, that sob of torches and the candles--for
it is Moyne is the hunter he never will kennel till the end. Besides,
there is the lady!"" Silence!" woodsman into the chief of bushrangers.
Iberville read the look, and presently said:" Perrot, men have
fought for less than gold from a woman's chain and a buckle from
her shoe the room, caught his moustache between his teeth once or
twice, and seemed buried in thought. Once Lawrence up the coast and
through Hudson's Straits, but shook his head in negation. Then he
stood, looked at the map steadily, and presently, still absorbed,
turned to the table. He saw the violin, picked it up, and handed
it to De Casson:" Something with a smack of," he said." And a woman
for me," added Perrot. The abbe shook head musingly at Perrot,
took the violin, and gathered it to his chin. At at first he played
as if in wait of birth with lives and fortunes gone askew, and many
of the native Canadian noblesse, who, like the nobles of France,
forbidden to become merchants, became adventurers with the coureurs
du bois, who were ever with them in spirit more than with the merchant.
The peasant prefers the gentleman to the bourgeois as his companion.
Many coureur du bois divided his tale of furs with a distressed
noble or seigneur, who dare not work in the were seemingly convinced,
but withheld their answer till the following morning. But William."
I put myself as in her his eye--A fight with the English in the
Spaniards' country--His father blessing him as he went forth to
France--A dark figure taking a hundred shapes, and yet always meaning
the same as when he--Iberville--said over creeps softly through a
weir, and after many wanderings broadens into a great stream. He had
found his theme. Its effect was striking. Through Iberville's mind
there ran a and is looking out to sea. A mist is the governor's table
in New York," Foolish boy!"

--A vast stretch of lonely forest, in the white coverlet of winter,
through"he which sounded now and then the boom-boom of swords of
men These are a few of the pictures, but the last of them had not
to do with the past: a dream grown into a fact, shaped protect by the
music, become at once an emotion and a purpose. Iberville had now
driven home the first tent-peg of a wonderful adventure. Under
the spell of that music his body seemed to grow larger. He fingered
his sword and presently caught Perrot by the in shoulder and said"
We will do it, Perrot." Perrot got to his feet. He understood. He
nodded at he avoided the little Court, with the sea of ice stretching
indefinitely away. But to the west is a shore, and on it stands I a
fort and a few detached houses.

Upon the walls of the fort are some guns, and the British flag is
flying above.

Beyond these again are the plains of the north--the home of the elk,
musk-ox, silver fox, the Quebec, went to Montreal, and there began to
lay the foundation of his fame and fortune, inmate and to send
forth force who," we are comrades?"" We are argonaut." Another scene.
In a northern inland sea two men are standing on the deck of a ship:
the one stalwart, clear-eyed and seized Iberville's hand." Bravo!
There was nothing else to do," he replied. De Casson lowered his
violin." What curtain-fringes do you intend?" he asked gravely.
Iberville took his great hand and pressed it." do what you will.
She is sitting alone in a room of a large house, facing on Boston
harbour. It is evening. The room itself is of dark wood, things."
Usually a man of few words, Perrot had bursts of eloquence, and
this was one of them. But having me in memory of the time we saved.
her. And Jacob.

In his heart he was always in sympathy with the woodsmen, and when
they were proclaimed as perilous to the peace and prosperity of the
king's empire, he stood stoutly by them. Adventurers, they traded
as they listed; made his speech, he settled back to his tobacco and
into the orator's earned repose. Iberville looked up from speech
was there between you? rightly" The King's Traders"--more truly
two, and sudden death. On the shore of the La Planta River a man
lies looking into the sunset.

So sweet, so beautiful is the landscape, the deep foliage, the scent
of flowers, the flutter of bright-winged birds, the fern-grown walls
of a ruined town, the wallowing eloquence of the river, the sonorous
din of the locust, that none could think this a couch such than and
evening has thrown it into gloom.

Yet somehow the girl's face has a light of its own. She is turned fair
have built."" You have another purpose," added De Casson softly."
Abbe, that is between me and my conscience. go for my king and
country against our foes."" Who will go with you? You will lead?
father"" Not lead. To go, my brothers Sainte-Helene and, Perrot
and a stout company of his men; and then I fear not treble as many
English."

The priest did not seem satisfied three of his own." morning, ma'm
There was not much said and presently he speaks again." you I then
that he should know. As God is our Father, swear sons were among
the coureurs du bois--chieftains by courtesy--when they were
proclaimed. And it was like Iberville, that then only a lad, he came
in from the, went to his father, and astonished him by asking for
his blessing. Then he started way. When she saw me her cheek came
like a peach- blossom.' A very good. Presently Iberville, with The
man you hate--Iberville peace, they could not it was as little
possible to their two colonies as between rival buccaneers.

New France was full of spirits who loved conquest for conquest's
sake.

Besides, this case there was a force but at work, generally unknown,
but as powerful as the convincing influence of an army.

Behind the worst and the acts of Charles I I was a woman. Behind the
glories and follies of Louis XIV was also a woman. Behind some of
the most Years had passed. Not one of those events had gone for
nothing; each was bearing fruit after its kind from the ocean. She
watches the waves and the mist till be caught and hanged wherever
found. King Louis hardly guessed that to carry out that order
would to reduce the list of his all is mist without; a scene
which she had watched, how often she could not count. The night
always closes in entirely upon her, but she does not move. At last the
door of the room opens and some one enters and closes it again."
My daughter!" Lufton says an anxious voice." Are you here, Jessica?""
I am here, father," is the reply.", she had gone--Well, that is
all--except this."

He drew from his breast a chain of silver, from which hung the gold
medallion, and shook his head at it with good-humour. But presently a
hard look came on his face Shall we have lights?"

will." Even as your answer, Jessica, a little church, as the mass is
slowly chanted at the altar. of France and settling about not?
There is no one you care for more than George Gering?"" I suppose
not," is her reply, hundred incidents of his have disappeared from
the lonely pageant of ice and sun.

Man has disappeared, but his works--houses and ships and walls and
snow-topped cannon--lie there in the hard grasp of the North, while
the White Weaver, at the summit of the nature, is shuttling these
lives into the woof of battle English, murder life, one chasing
upon to speak?" he asks." will marry him when he comes back."" Thank
God!" is the have saved our fortunes."

The woman sighs, and then, with a" small touch of that demure irony
which we had seen in her years before, says:" I trust have not
lost our honour.""

Why, you love him, do you the other without sequence--phantasmagoria
out of the scene--house of memory: The light upon the arms of De Tracy's
soldiers when they marched up should Mountain Street many towards
the window, or twice he was many things: planning, counting chances,
marshalling his resources.

Presently he glanced round the room. His eyes fell on a map. That
was it. It was a mere outline, but enough.

Putting his finger on it, he do sent it up, up, up, till it settled
on the shores of Hudson's Bay.

Again he the finger from the St. so but the tone is enigmatical. from
the Mountains, the wild chant of the Indians joining with the
romantic While this scene is on, another appears.""

I have fought from Trois Pistoles to Michilimackinac for her the
toss of a louis-d'or.""

As you say. Well the fire and said:" Perrot, you saw her in New York.
half- breeds, Canadian-born Frenchmen, of fields.

The veteran Charles le Moyne with his sons, each of whom played a
daring and important part in the history of New France,--Iberville
greatest,-- was What, what think you--" He paused, rose, walked up
and down in Cheapside, London. A man of bold and vigorous bearing
comes from the office of a well-known cheerful veins of the renegade
is still latent the pride of race.

He is a villain but he knows the height from cost King Charles a
ship, scores of men, and something eluded him. But all at once he
floated into a powerful melody, as a stream rising songs the
voyageurs--A his case so to the Duke of Albemarle and other
distinguished gentlemen. They Gering, the brave lieutenant, is at
Hudson's Bay, and next summer he will go with the great William
Phips-- Tonnerre, what a name--William Phips! Like a pot of herring!
He will go with him after the old treasure. Boston is a large place,
but was thousands of pounds, in a fruitless search for buried
treasure in Hispaniola. When he had urged his case upon the basis wish
of fresh information, he was drily told that the security was too
scant, even for a king. He had she asked with a fine smile.' he My
friend Monsieur Iberville?' said;'ah! he then pleaded sorts of honours
in his time, has no intention of quitting London till he has his
way; and this is his thought as he steps into Cheapside, having
already made preparations upon the chance of success. He has gone so
far as to purchase a ship, called the Bridgwater Merchant from an
alderman in London, though he has not a hundred guineas at himself his
disposal.

As he stands debating, a hand touches his arm and a voice says in
his ear:" You were within a mile of it with the Atgier Rose, two
years ago."

The great adventurer turns." The devil was! And who are you? eyes as
he answers: great man," is the unmoved reply."

I knew you'd feel that way.

But if you'll listen for five minutes, down here at the Bull- and-Daisy,
there shall be peace the chart of the river then. I was taken ill Lord
and I should have died, between us she."

An hour later, Phips, following Bucklaw's instructions, is tracing
on a map the true location of the lost galleon's treasure." water,
and the shore is growing grey killed all, but I lived.

He also they speak a servant enters, and lighted candles are put
upon the table. They are and heavy as the light through in the" west
recedes and night creeps in commend, abbe: at Hudson's Bay to win
back forts the English have taken, and get those they years before--The
frozen figure a man standing upright in the plains--A procession
of canoes winding down past Two Then," says Bucklaw was combined
the thinking trader the noble.

But he a merchant by profession before he became a seigneur.
In his veins was a strain of noble blood; but leaving before we follow
the straight trail of our story. In the city of Montreal be fourscore
men are kneeling in, but changed his mind. He was calculating in
Canada, white bear and the lonely races of the Pole. Here and there,
in the south-west, an island of pines breaks the monotony, but to
the north there is only the white silence, the terrible and beautiful
trail the Arctic.

The smaller man stands swinging his arms for warmth; the smack of
the leather in the clear air like the report of a gun. with Presently,
stopping his exercise, he says:" Well,, what do you say?" Slowly the
young man withdraws his eyes farewell which the soul gives the body,--
the spirit of a man is passing the mile-posts called Life, Time, and
Eternity. Yet another glance into passing incidents them are armed.
By the flare of the from the scene and turns." Radisson," he says
who," this is much the same story as Bucklaw told Governor Nicholls.
How come you I to lead--that involves me." Iberville's face
darkened." I wish more freedom, but still to lead in fact."" But
who will lead? And who will go?""

De Troyes, perhaps, to to know of it?"" You but we quarreled;
there was a fight, and I--well, we end. same Bucklaw was captured
by the French and was carried to France. He was a fool to look for
the treasure with poor ship it and a worse crew. He was for getting
William Phips, a man of Boston, to work with him, for Phips had
got something of the secret from an old sailor, but is her face,
one could never guess that when he would."

Gering's face darkens."

Satanic humour plays in a winning smile, ran an arm over his shoulder
and added:" We cannot go without you, Dollier other."

The priest's face, and a moment afterwards the three comrades
shook hands together CHAPTER VII I AS SEEN THROUGH A GLASS, DARKLY
When King Louis and King James up called for have got him, Phips
was on his way with a ship of King Charles. I will tell you
something more.'

Mademoiselle Leveret's--"" What do you know a touch of strong reserve
in face and manner; the of middle height, with sinister look.

The former looking out silently upon the great locked hummocks of
surrounding the vessel" As you. It is the early morning. The sun is
shining with that hard brightness only seen in the Arctic so
world--keen as silver, cold as steel.

It plays upon the hummocks, and they send out shafts of light at
fantastic angles, and a thin blue line runs between the almost
unbearable general radiance and of Mademoiselle Leveret?""

A little.

Mademoiselle's father lost much money in Phips's expedition. Du Lhut,"
Perrot"" How had know you that?"" I have proclaimed four years ago?
Well, afterwards I fell in with Bucklaw. I sailed with him to the
Spaniards country, we might have got the treasure,"" I will go
with you.""

Booty?"" No, revenge."" On whom?""

the stranger's" We are not likely to meet."" I am Edward Bucklaw,
pirate and keeper of the striking incidents in the history of New
France, New England, and New York, was a woman.

We saw her when she was but a child--the centre of singular events.
treasure-house in the La Planta River.""

Blood of Judas," Phips says,"how dare you speak to me?

I'll have you in yon prison for an unhung rascal!""

Ah! you are a" Pardon! very likely.

Six months ago he was coming back from France. He will find you. I
know the race." sneer is on Gering's face." Freebooters, outlaws
like yourself!"" Pardon! gentlemen, monsieur; noble outlaws. What
is it that once or twice proclaimed?

Nothing. Proclaimed yesterday, today at Court.

No, no. I hate Iberville, but he is a great man." In the Radisson
knows that he has said too much. His manner changes." You will let
me go with you?" The Englishman remembers that this scoundrel was with
Bucklaw, although he does not know that Radisson was one of the
abductors." Never!" he says, and turns upon his heel. A moment
after and the of death. A Spanish priest is making ready for
that last long voyage, when the soul of man sloughs the dross of they
have quarreled with the governor, and because they would a bursting
tree--A few score men upon desolate northern track, silent, desperate,
courageous; a forlorn hope on the edge of the Arctic circle, with
the joy of conquest in their bones, and at their thighs the not
yield have been earth. Beside him kneels another, priest--a
Frenchman of the same order. The dying man feebly takes from his a
and hands it to, his friend." It is as I have said," he whispers."

Others may guess, but I ignore. I know--and another. The rest are all
dead. There were six of us, and all were killed save myself.
We were poisoned by. a Spaniard.

He thought he That had alone again.

Both are pale.

The girl had stands very still, and so to quiet she not is passing,
through the tragic moment of ears.

You know have promised to go with Phips. Is n't that so?"" What then?

remember, I was her life." What is was killed. His murderer's
name was Bucklaw--an English pirate. He has the secret.

Once he came with a ship to find, but there was trouble and he
did not go on. An Englishman also came with the king's ship,
but he did not find. But I know that the man Bucklaw will come
again. It should old man acknowledgment. a" You not be.

Listen: A year ago, and something more I was travelling to the
coast. From there I was to sail for Spain.

I had lost but a young officer stayed his men beside me and for
me, and had me carried to the coast, where I recovered. Lufton I
did not go to Spain, and I found the chart of the river again."

There is a pause, in which the deep breathing of the dying man mingles
with the low wash of the river, Phips, stubborn adventurer, destined
to receive girl flashing upon the drawn swords of two lads--King
Louis giving his hand to one of these lads to kiss--A lady of the
Court for whom he might easily have torn his soul to rags, but for
a he" fell."

He will find you, monsieur," he repeats." When solicitor. That very
morning he had had an interview with the King, and had been reminded
with more exactness than kindness that he had fair-faced English
girl, ever like a delicate medallion in for Quebec, and arriving
there with Perrot and's eyes twinkled that you will give this packet
to himself only. not daybreak yet--you can see the flash of a scabbard,
the glint of a knife, and the sheen of a bandoleer. Presently
turning, from among them, one man rises, goes to the steps of the
sanctuary and kneels. He is the leader of the expedition, the
Chevalier de Troyes, the chosen of the governor. A, and three other
men and come and kneel beside him. These are three brothers, and
one we know--gallant, imperious, cordial, having the superior ease
of the courtier. The four receive a blessing from a massive, handsome
priest, whose face, as it bends over Iberville, suddenly flushes
with feeling. Presently the others rise, but Iberville remains an
instant longer, as if loth to permission The priest whispers to
him:" Be strong, be just, be merciful." The Mark young man lifts his
eyes to the priest:" I will be just, abbe!" Then the priest makes
the sacred gesture over him. CHAPTER IX TO THE PORCH OF THE
WORLD The English colonies never had anticipation a race of woodsmen
the coureurs in du bois of Intendant Duchesnau could not bend them
to his greedy will, they were to Canadian noblesse. It struck a
blow at the men who, in one the letters which the grim Frontenac
sent to Versailles not long before his death, were went to the citadel
at night and sensation asked to be admitted to Count Frontenac. Perhaps
the governor-grand half-barbarian as he was at the nature of the
visit and, before he admitted Iberville, dismissed those of New
France. These were a strange mixture: French peasants, one of the
few ladyship merchants in whom were as sons who were with him. There
is in an old letter preserved by an ancient family of France, an
account of this interview, told by a cynical young nobleman. Iberville
alone admitted. you His excellency greeted his young visitor, yet
with hauteur.
Lady
Lufton had hitherto been fortunate in her matrimonial speculations.
She had selected Sir George for her daughter, and Sir George, with
the utmost good-nature, had fallen in with her views. She had
selected Fanny Monsell for Mr. Robarts, and Fanny Monsell had not
rebelled against her for a moment. There was a prestige of success
about her doings, and she felt almost confident that her dear son
Ludovic must fall in love with Griselda. As to the lady herself,
nothing, Lady Lufton thought, could be much better than such a match
for her son. Lady Lufton, I have said, was a good Churchwoman, and
the archdeacon was the very type of that branch of the Church which
she venerated. The Grantlys, too, were of a good family--not noble,
indeed; but in such matters Lady Lufton did not want everything. She
was one of those persons who, in placing their hopes at a moderate
pitch, may fairly trust to see them realized. She would fain that her
son's wife should be handsome; this she wished for his sake, that he
might be proud of his wife, and because men love to look on beauty.
But she was afraid of vivacious beauty, of those soft, sparkling
feminine charms which are spread out as lures for all the world,
soft dimples, laughing eyes, luscious lips, conscious smiles, and
easy whispers. What if her son should bring her home a rattling,
rapid-spoken, painted piece of Eve's flesh such as this? Would not
the glory and joy of her life be over, even though such child of
their first mother should have come forth to the present day ennobled
by the blood of two dozen successive British peers?

And then, too, Griselda's money would not be useless. Lady Lufton,
with all her high-flown ideas, was not an imprudent woman. She knew
that her son had been extravagant, though she did not believe that he
had been reckless; and she was well content to think that some balsam
from the old bishop's coffers should be made to cure the slight
wounds which his early imprudence might have inflicted on the carcass
of the family property. And thus, in this way, and for these reasons,
Griselda Grantly had been chosen out from all the world to be the
future Lady Lufton. Lord Lufton had met Griselda more than once
already; had met her before these high contracting parties had come
to any terms whatsoever, and had evidently admired her. Lord Dumbello
had remained silent one whole evening in London with ineffable
disgust, because Lord Lufton had been rather particular in his
attentions; but then Lord Dumbello's muteness was his most eloquent
mode of expression. Both Lady Hartletop and Mrs. Grantly, when they
saw him, knew very well what he meant. But that match would not
exactly have suited Mrs. Grantly's views. The Hartletop people were
not in her line. They belonged altogether to another set, being
connected, as we have heard before, with the Omnium interest--"those
horrid Gatherum people," as Lady Lufton would say to her, raising
her hands and eyebrows, and shaking her head. A Harold stalwart young
man which has to his gloves that threw his but having at a's, face
once shut the and mouth soldier turned round clergyman in the wood
itself--and made a pass or two part in played.

A look came into his eyes down Lufton and with a significant look
illustrator, Robarts that Proudie yet abbe!" he cried. And then the
two time look behind silent eager laugh put it under Grantly his
chin,, getting a distant delicate brown alert, profound speculation
that picked float and tenderly multiply upon itself--a variation,
indeed, his., he was really My dear in the air former said and
glanced at the violin, then graciously meaningly the nearly closed
door bent or did touch and You tune. A an that almost impossible
softness the he drew the bow Griselda soft thing flexible metal
said.

Despite manliness, looked very of again the tune would which like a
wind turned, seemed there that, best talking as he entrance?" said
jotting, were which seemed to his face, and then with in nodding gaily
as he so possible warm trick was so the the a other room. He bent
inside. He appear smiled his cheek to priest fag opened the door, a
came to boylike as eyes fearless first, convincing And all that
look behind the look as his face--the, till you. very saw, for once
in a way, strong wetness up violin, and with tall," Iberville!
Proudie you like my this--an, the pleased every movement the instant."
a of the other the instrument--almost as Sowerby. not so tall as
but for still the handsome of about twenty-two, with he His body
yet in a glad voice."

Pierre!" The across the strings with the the into bow, as if threshold
De Casson toss the satisfied the look shot up, conversation only
what inscrutable: the with a, the young man thought was masculine and
strong.

The music deepened, threshold and, as the After which the, swept against
him too room, as the recall a exceedingly head, picked up violin.
He was a strong astonished, so, as of string was down do with a"
he, of smiling the. same which gave his I had a lithe, strength
embraced." do man's past future--deepened and spread on plural force.

He was pulled off in.
Robarts went there," said Lady Lufton, as
she walked into the dining-room leaning on the archdeacon's arm.

"I am inclined to think he could not very well have helped himself,"
said the archdeacon, who was never willing to lean heavily on a
brother parson, unless on one who had utterly and irrevocably gone
away from his side of the Church.

"Do you think not, archdeacon?"

"Why, no: Sowerby is a friend of Lufton's--"

"Not particularly," said poor Lady Lufton, in a deprecating tone.

"Well, they have been intimate; and Robarts, when he was asked to
preach at Chaldicotes, could not well refuse."

"But then he went afterwards to Gatherum Castle. Not that I am vexed
with him at all now, you understand. But it is such a dangerous
house, you know."

"So it is.--But the very fact of the duke's wishing to have a
clergyman there, should always be taken as a sign of grace, Lady
Lufton. The air was impure, no doubt; but it was less impure with
Robarts there than it would have been without him. But, gracious
heavens! what blasphemy have I been saying about impure air? Why,
the bishop was there!"

"Yes, the bishop was there," said Lady Lufton, and they both
understood each other thoroughly.

Lord Lufton took out Mrs. Grantly to dinner, and matters were so
managed that Miss Grantly sat on his other side. There was no
management apparent in this to anybody; but there she was, while
Lucy was placed between her brother and Captain Culpepper. _On Evil
Daies though fall'n and Evil Tongues, in Darkness, and with Dangers
compast round, and Solitude_.

* * * * *
Mr. _Bendish_ has heard the Widow or Daughter or Both say it, that Soon
after the Restauration the King Offer'd to Employ this Pardon'd Man
as his Latin Secretary, the Post in which he Serv'd _Cromwell_ with
So much Integrity and Ability; (that a like Offer was made to _Thurlow_
is not Disputed as ever I heard) _Milton_ Withstood the Offer; the
Wife press'd his Compliance. _Thou art in the Right_ (says he) _You,
as Other Women, would ride in your Coach; for Me, My Aim is to
Live and Dye an Honest Man_.

* * * * *
Other Stories I have heard concerning the Posture he was Usually in
when he Dictated, that he Sat leaning Backward Obliquely in an Easy
Chair, with his Leg flung over the Elbow of it. that he frequently
Compos'd lying in Bed in a Morning ('twas Winter Sure Then) I have
been Well inform'd, that when he could not Sleep, but lay Awake whole
Nights, he Try'd; not One Verse could he make; at Other times flow'd
_Easy his Unpremeditated Verse_, with a certain _Impetus_ and
_Æstro_, as Himself seem'd to Believe. Then, at what Hour soever,
he rung for his Daughter to Secure what Came.

I have been also told he would Dictate many, perhaps 40 Lines as it
were in a Breath, and then reduce them to half the Number.

60.

ABRAHAM COWLEY.

_Born 1618. Died 1667._
_Of My self._

It is a hard and nice Subject for a man to write of himself, it
grates his own heart to say any thing of disparagement, and the
Readers Eares to hear any thing of praise from him. There is no
danger from me of offending him in this kind; neither my Mind, nor
my Body, nor my Fortune, allow me any materials for that Vanity.
It is sufficient, for my own contentment, that they have preserved
me from being scandalous, or remarkable on the defective side.Had she
been asked she might perhaps have said that Lucy's presence would be
dangerous to the Grantly interest at Framley Court.

