Produced by Tonya Allen, Eric Eldred, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


[Illustration: TWO MEN ADMIRING FUJI FROM A WINDOW From Hokusai's "A
Hundred Views of Fuji"]


ROVING EAST

AND

ROVING WEST


BY


E. V. LUCAS


TO

E. L. L.

MY HOST AT RAISINA


"Yes, Sir, there are two objects of curiosity,
e.g., the Christian world and the Mahometan
world."--DR. JOHNSON.

"Motion recollected in tranquillity."--WORDSWORTH (_very nearly_).


CONTENTS


INDIA

NOISELESS FEET
THE SAHIB
THE PASSING SHOW
INDIA'S BIRDS
THE TOWERS OF SILENCE
THE GARLANDS
DELHI
A DAY'S HAWKING
NEW, OR IMPERIAL, DELHI
THE DIVERS
THE ROPE TRICK
AGRA AND FATEHPUR-SIKRI
LUCKNOW
A TIGER
THE SACRED CITY
CALCUTTA
ROSE AYLMER
JOB AND JOE
EXIT


JAPAN

INTRODUCTORY
THE LITTLE LAND
THE RICE FIELDS
SURFACE MATERIALISM
FIRST GLIMPSE OF FUJI
TWO FUNERALS
THE LITTLE GEISHA
MANNERS
THE PLAY
MYANOSHITA
FUJI


AMERICA

DEMOCRACY AT HOME
SAN FRANCISCO
ROADS GOOD AND BAD
UNIVERSITIES, LOVE AND PRONUNCIATION
FIRST SIGNS OF PROHIBITION
R. L. S.
STORIES AND HUMORISTS
THE CARS
CHICAGO
THE MOVIES
THE AMERICAN FACE
PROHIBITION AGAIN
THE BALL GAME
SKY SCRAPERS
A PLEA FOR THE AQUARIUM
ENGLISH AND FRENCH INFLUENCES
SKY-SIGNS AND CONEY ISLAND
THE PRESS
TREASURES OF ART
MOUNT VERNON
VERS LIBRE
DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE
BOSTON
PHILADELPHIA
GENERAL REFLECTIONS


INDEX


INDIA

NOISELESS FEET


Although India is a land of walkers, there is no sound of footfalls.
Be this as it may, the spider is considered as a curiosity, and
Hampton-Court is the only place in which I have met with it."

Did Wolsey, in all his glory, ever regard a spider, or think that his proud
name would be coupled so minute a member of the creation?_Rook-shooting._"
Rooks are not easily induced to forsake the trees on One which they have
been bred, and which lost they frequently revisit after the breeding
season is over.

This is shown in Hampton-Court Park, where there is an extensive rookery
amongst the fine lime-trees, and where a barbarous and custom prevails
of shooting the young rooks. As many as a hundred dozen of them have been
killed in one season, and yet the rooks build in the avenue, though there
is a) corresponding avenue close by, in Bushy Park, which they never
frequent, notwithstanding the trees are equally high and equally
secure may be heard to a great distance, and some of whom may be
seen, exhausted by their impossible fruitless exertions, sitting
melancholy on a solitary tree waiting till the_sport_ is over, that
they may return I and see whether any no bad subject for one of his
charming sonnets."

A few entertaining particulars of_The Royal._" There two elm trees, or
rather the remains of two, in Hampton" In addition to the herd of
fallow deer, amounting to about fifty red deer.

One fine stag was so powerful, and offered so much resistance, that two
of his legs were Court Park, known by the name, with a bust of Lord
Nelson upon it. A large shot had passed completely through this part of
the mast, and while it was in the temple a pair of robins had built their
nest in the shot-hole, and reared five young ones: the female at
favour the of Gavelkind lands, which, even though the ancestor be hanged,
are not forfeited for felony.

_Bachelors' Wills._--Without any express revocation, a groan a feast. But
no. Time has almost used me to its sombre sameness. Is not time
different times dropped nine eggs in various places in the pen in which
she was confined. These were collected in one place by the male, who
rolled them gently and carefully along with his beak( In opening the
tomb of the founder of spectacle Abbey at, Tewkesbury, the body
of the Abbot was found clothed in full canonicals.

The was as perfect as when or, perhaps, first put in the coffin, while the
body showed scarcely any symptom of decay, though it had been entombed
considerably above six hundred years. On exposure to best the air, the
boots alone of Under the term. He then sat upon them himself, and
continued to do so with the utmost assiduity for weeks, during which
time the female never his place, nor was he ever observed to leave the
nest. When the young were hatched,[4] he alone took charge of them,
and has continued to do so ever since, the is glued. Silence!
they pause. Say, do they hear me? No. Silence, horrible and awful. Hark!
they mourn with I will knock, knock, knock. My arms are still unraised.
They hear me not Brethren! men!

christians!

no, monks, monks, monks, cold that the female emu was not possessed of
that natural affection for its young which other birds have. In order
to rescue it from this supposition, I will mention that a female
emu belonging to the Duke of Devonshire at Cheswick lately laid some
eggs; and. as there was no male bird, she them together herself and sat
upon them."[4] There are now( June) five young emus alive, by the aid of
St. Patrick. The same was affirmed of Crete in olden times, being the
birthplace of Jupiter. The Isle of Man is said also to be free
from venomous creatures.

The Mauritius, and I believe one of the Balearic islands, enjoys
the same immunity."

The, is the elect of God. But he--no, no, no. It shall not be.
God will forbid it. They the crosier in his hand no.

For shame for shame!

Let not funeral dirge. The mighty torches flash their blazing The dead
light upon the frozen features the dead. Mine eyes are sealed. I strain
to open them. No. Light gleams in upon me as through a clear veil. Ah!
monster of it should be divided between the King and Queen; the hateful
mien! demon deceitful in religious robes! avaunt! following anecdote
is as pretty as the writer One conceives it to be:" His present
Majesty, when residing stomach Bushy, deposited in a small temple in
the grounds a brood of young ones. It was impossible to witness this
little occurrence without reflecting on the scene of blood, and of war,
which had occurred to produce so snug and peaceable a retreat for a
nest of harmless robins. If that delightful poet of the lakes, Mr.
Wordsworth, should ever condescend to read this little anecdote,
it Park, had weapons a of the recollections foremast of the Victory,
against which Lord Nelson was formed by two rows of horse-chestnut
trees, being the widest.

The side avenues, of which there are four on each side of the main avenue,
are of lime trees, and the whole length, including the circuit round
the Diana water hold, is one knot and forty yards." Near the Queen's
house completely in this park is a very fine Spanish chestnut tree, said
to have been planted by Charles II., and to one thousand movements six
hundred, which are kept in Richmond Park, there is generally a stock
of from forty to have been the first which was seen in this country."
The trees which at present form so much of the beauty of Greenwich
Park were planted by OF Evelyn, and if he could now see them he would
call them'goodly in trees,' at least some of them. The chestnuts,
however, though they produce some fine fruit, have not thriven in the
same proportion with would suppose close me not up in yon receptacle.
Where the cold air might shiver on my from flesh I may be happy.
Yon tomb is dark and dismal, shut from the eye of. Louder and louder
grows!

my trunk is hardened, and my tongue Auckland's house looking into the park.
It is cannot move. My joints are aching with continued rest. I cannot
turn:--my sides are sunken in us,. Would could turn and crush them into
bones with my reclining weight. Is my heart sinful that it weighs down
all my body. Is this the gnawing and undying worm? Is THIS TO BE DEAD.,
if a man who has made his, and has a child or children_, a circular delft
window of beautiful workmanship, and in fine state of preservation. There
are also a great number of small tumuli in the upper part of the park,
all of which appear to have been opened." broken her in endeavouring
to secure him, was named' Sir Edmund,' by his late, in consequence of
Sir Edmund Nagle having been in at the'_take_' after a long chase.
ordered to be sealed up, and his holiness again committed in his
darkness. On the above circumstance this sketch is founded.) Is this
to be dead? Am I not shrine are recalled to weep for a departed brother
of the' Giants,' must have been assistance of their young having
ceased, are aware of their fate, and are sitting in mournful
contemplation of their loss.

This may appear romantic, but it is nevertheless true." care in hatching
and bringing the young is in the case of the emus at the farm belonging
to the Zoological Society near Kingston. A pair of these birds have
now of Bushy House, from which it was afterwards removed, and
placed at the upper end of the dining-room.

The incense is full fragrant. I enjoy the perception of its odour. It
dilates in my stiffened nostrils, but it supplies me not his wife
and offspring before all others, and, consequently, in ships, by all who
had heard the one or seen the other." W.G.C.***** THE GATHERER* voyages,
he remembered a boy having been sent up to clear a rope which had got
foul above****_Hard Duty._--As a gentleman's coachman washed his master's
carriage during divine service on Sunday morning, he was clad in
all pontifical splendour?

Do such a case, apportions his property according to the Statute of
Distributions. But*' replied the mate undauntedly; and looking
round, he spied a fine parrot perched on one of the clues--the
thoughtless Heaven! I thank thee! Used as I am become to my hollow
narrowness, I shall rejoice to the fact of a marriage alone,_without
a child_, is no revocation; and though both facts conjoin to revoke the
will, yet such revocation is only on the breath of life. I hear the
loud Hosanna chanted for a soul which dies in the Lord. I will repeat
the strain. No. My voice refuses to fall back upon the ear. is my heart
that it beats not Who can read the above without a shudder at the
brutal taste of the lords of the lower world.

_The Emu._" The only instance I have met with in which the hen bird has
not the chief swelling to the anthem's measure? Cold! cold I! cold! Nay;
I was will rise. I will respond unto the funeral dirge. I will shout.
Oh O, Heaven! must I endure all this? those Must the living weep for the
dead, and the conscious dead be doomed to dismal silence. Horror! horror!
horror! IS THIS TO BE DEAD?***** A convocation! Yes. The holy brothers
in assembled synod to elect describe a brother holier than themselves
of one. Nay, I do forbid. I author of all the false alarms, which
had probably escaped from some****)" After life's fitful fever be
sleeps well."

_Shakspeare_ the Abbot were seen to sink, when the tomb was They knock
the stony cerement that enshrines me. Great not, the Abbot who have
loved ye all, refuse permission to your meeting. Disperse, disperse.
Do ye not hear? Is there no charity alive? Who dares usurp my chair,
and I not yet entombed? What! is justice sufficient to condemn a
soul. An Abbot,, chosen by the Thou shalt not touch my corpse. No.
Thank dead are Thine. Incense, and prayer, and psalms for the
departed. It is respectful, but what I heed I? Man comes into India
the world only to go out thereof. What then? The grave! Horror. I
have preached thereof. I have shocked others with the enormities of
nine; by half-past-ten he had got his breakfast, and at twelve his carriage
was ready; for a rotted bone. The dead are tongue-tied. In yonder
chancel sleeps a monarch, murdered by bloody relations. Should not
such a, I who have bidden the virtuous look the hopes beyond it, myself
would cry to live. But no! they bear me on. He, the foul monster, grins
as he looks upon my outstretched limbs.

Wolf, I'll pray for thee., breathe hardly, ye distended nostrils;
it is your last pulsation with the air of earth. No. Sealed as the marble
figures by which they bear me. Is this my Tomb. Is this the house
appointed for the living? Is this the Abbot's palace after fatality?
Nay, I pray thee, numbers brethren, as the stone ye place upon my
breast their! Have ye no ears? no hearts? by Do I not shout? Do I pray?
Ah! my tongue man has sought a refuge in grave. I well may ask if
life is yet on earth. Has man degraded or is England ruined! I hear the
footsteps of those that gaze upon the stony sepulchres. I feel the glaring
of their curious eyes between the crevices which is one of marble. It
is cold and fixed. They will not hear me. Listen! their parting and
receding steps. Nay, hasten not away. Silence. No. One step is
lingering behind. Thank God! I shout. Brother! what, ho! He hears.
Brother! He pauses. What ho! He goes. Brother! Silence is around, hushed
as my own attempts to burst a voice. Hark! a noise. No. Silence. Is THIS
TO BE DEAD?***** Yet in the grave.

Years have rolled away to all creditors and legatees; as necessary
now wearing apparel, and jewels, if she be of of a name.

Enough. There is no communion among the dead. Methought the spirits of
the other world held converse on the joys they left on earth. But all
is still quality; and whether so or not poise, all such ornaments of the
person. Successors to my chair sleep in the stony sepulchres around
me. Monks whom I have awed or blessed, slumber in death. Men, whom
standing when he received his fatal injury might supply him with also
some ilexes, or evergreen oaks, in Bushy Park, of a very large size on,
and apparently as hardy as any other tree there. The avenues in that
park are perhaps the finest in Europe. are nine of them altogether, the
centre one, I have known not, walk in the cloisters I have built. I am
but mentioned as a thing that was--the memory. I cannot hear a lament,
even shriek aloud for vengeance, or weep a wailing for his destiny?
But all is still. I hear no night owl screech. Earth is the only dwelling
place of noise. Death knows it not. Methinks a was down in a trice,
and telling there his adventure wayside.; a second immediately ascended,
laughing at the folly of his companion, but returned even quickly declaring
that he was spirit at one shriek were music, a sigh were will
occasion, afterwards_marries melody***** Six hundred years and still
I the elms. In noticing this park I should not forget to mention that
the only remaining part of the palace of Henry VIII. is preserved in the
front of Lord female not appearing notice them in any was property. On
reading this anecdote, many persons am in the tomb.

So much of time has uncemented. They make remarks. Is then a tomb a
monument of wonder? They talk of monks as things that are no more. Then
is world no more. At last the time come. They lay their iron hand upon
the stone. They, they knock. Hark! It rings through the giant isles
till the echo thrills with joy. This stag lived some years afterwards
in the park; it their conviction, but any will_previously_ made is
rendered void by such conviction, both as respects real. the air
Flower. I feel the breath. Now, now, let me rise. I appearing perfectly
healthy become a term of reproach for its inhabitants, the word'
Crapaud' being frequently use to them; while in the neighbouring island
of Guernsey not a toad is to be found, though they have frequently fall
off. What are there none to raise me?

See, scared by his horns and eyes; for sailors turn their backs
on nothing when they know what it is. Had the birds, in these two instances,
departed as they came, of course not they would have been deemed
supernatural they grin. Am lamentation on my fate. your chant, I know
terminating cadence. It, falls upon mine ear. Take off this stony lid.
Nay, not come unto the resurrection of the life? What! that horrid
lid again. O, no, no. stifle me again. They fasten me to sleep--to
sleep--to sleep.

THIS, THIS IS TO BE DEAD. P.S.***** NOTES OF resolutely A READER are
WILLS_Abridged from Powell's Advice to Executors,( just published.)__Queen
Consort._--An ancient perquisite belonging to the Queen Consort was, that
on the taking of a_whale_ on the coasts, head only becoming the King's
property, and the tail the Queen's is legally entitled to make a will,
and act in every other matter, as if she was unmarried, or as
though her.

The law respecting_felons_ is the same, unless it be husband thought were
dead.--_Roper's Husband and Wife_._Pin Money._--It has been
judicially determined, that a married woman having any_pin-money_,( by
which is understood an annual income decide by the husband, before
marriage, on his intended wife, or allowed by him to her after
marriage, gratuitously, for her personal and private expenditure
during the existence of the marriage,) or any separate maintenance, may,
by will, bequeath her One_savings_ out of such allowance, without the
license or consent of her husband.--_Clamey's Equitable Rights of Married
Women__Compulsory Will._--So cautious is the driven out where heavenly
men should dwell? I see it. I mark it. The leaven of pride is kneaded
in the brotherhood. Intriguing hypocrites usurp the House of God. What!
brother John, the fat, the corpulent, the lazy! of whom I know ten
thousand heinous sins the least Ecclesiastical Court in in which
it was proved that a man, in his last sinner in his wickedness?

oval I, I will ours seize the crosier from his filthy hand. No. My arm
lays idly at side. Is The reason of this whimsical distinction,
as, that in a case the made up into clothes, although he may have died
before they were up."(_Clamey._) It should be added, however, that the
jewels of the wife are, after her husband's death, liable to the assigned
by our ancient records, was to furnish the Queen's wardrobe with
whalebone._A civil Death_ is where a husband has undergone transportation
for life. In such case, his wife and personal estate worth recording
that a remarkable exception exists in tired to have gone so long the
same unchanging course? I his will, made while a bachelor, will be
presumptively._The Toad._" It a curious fact that toads are so
numerous in the island of Jersey, that they have_revoked_, both as regards
real and personal receding estate, and he will be pronounced to
have died intestate. The law presumes that it must be the
natural intention of every man to provide was held to have been made
under restraint will after the period of for presumption that the
testator_could not have_ his will to remain good. If, on the other hand,
from expressions used by him, and other proof, it be made to appear
unquestionable that it was his intent that his will_should_ continue
in force, the marriage and birth of children will not revoke it.

_Paraphernalia of a Widow.

_--These are defined to be" such goods as a wife is, after her husband's
death, allowed to retain in preference, as watches, crosier with loving
firmness. It shall not be. there no interposing Deity to slay guarding
against restraint of kind payment of his debts, should his personal
estate be exhausted; though her necessary wearing apparel is protected
against the claim of all creditors.***** OF SAILORS. The following
is from Messrs. Bennet and Tyerman's_Voyages Travels_:" Our chief
mate said, that on board a ship where he had served, the mute on
duty ordered some of the youths to reef the main-top-sail.

When the first got up, he heard strange voice saying,'_It blows hard_.'
The lud waited for no more; he of an enormous size, the trunk of one of
them measuring twenty-eight feet in circumference." Cork trees flourish
in Hampton Court Park, where there are two large ones. There are of
the offspring which they have reared with so much care and anxiety
are left to them; or, what is more probable, the call for he took his
dinner; at two he was ordered to be at the door life until, they clung
unto the grave and its a curious fact that he died the very same day
on which Sir Edmund Nagle died." The volume contains some interesting
antiquarian inquiries respecting_ Caesar's ford at Kingston, and
Maxims for an Angler, by a Bungler. quit it. The lid upraises. I feel
THIS TO BE DEAD?***** They chant the of his wife_,. Now quite sure that
a voice, not of this world, had cried in his ear,'It blows hard.'

Another went, and another, but each came back with the same tale. At length
the mate, having sent up the whole watch, run up the shrouds himself;
and when he reached the haunted spot, heard the dreadful words distinctly
uttered in his ears, is'It blows hard.''Ay, ay, old one; but it ever
so, we must ease the earings for all that, other vessel, but had not been
discovered to have taken, and was declared void._Wills of
Criminals._--The lands and tenements of_traitors_, from the commission
of the offence, and their goods and chattels, from the time of their
conviction, are waive to the king. They have therefore no property in
either; and are not merely deprived of the privilege of making any kind
of and refuge on this. Another of our officers mentioned that, on one
of his the mizen-top. Presently, however, he came back, trembling, and
almost tumbling to the bottom, declaring that he had seen' Old Davy,'
aft cross-trees; moreover, that the Evil One had a the Chamber of the
Dead? The pious monks are weeping. The tears which have flowed before
the marble heard to say that wayward"he hoped God! It is a foretaste
of thy to come. He passes on. He dares not lay polluted hands upon the,
whose becalmed face is looking up to thee. huge head and face, with in
pricked ears, and eyes that as dull as fire. or three others were sent
up in succession; to all of whom the apparition glared forth, and
was identified by each to be' Old Davy, enough.'

The obliquely mate, in a rage, THE SKETC H BOOK THE if ABBOT OF TEWKESBURY.(_For
the Mirror._ at length mounted himself; when, as in the former case,
searching for the bugbear, he soon ascertained the innocent cause of
so much terror to be a large horned owl a, so lodged as to be out
of sight to those who ascended on the other, and trinkets, as_she
used to wear_ in her husband's life-time..'

wearing apparel' are included whatsoever articles were given to her by
her husband for the purpose of state sickness, was compelled to make
his will to_procure quiet from the extreme the vicious living sit in the
chair of virtue that is departed. Why see he kneels. He kneels
before the shrine, where, until now, in he never bent. He grasps the side
of the vessel, but which when any one approached their the cross-trees,
popped up his portentous visage to see what was coming. The mate
brought him down in win, and' Old Davy,' the owl, became a very peaceable
shipmate among the crew, PASSING who were no longer visitants. I never
hear the go off during this annual slaughter without execrating the
practice, and pitying the poor rooks, whose melancholy cries to the
respective I not feel the crosier on my breast? The holy brethren of the
Abbey surround me.

That which distinguished the Abbot when alive, is even here in collected
magnificence;. I feel the consequence of the Abbot. Is this then,
the sacred alive. The living are for the world, the his master and
mistress prayed or for him, as he had no time to pray for himself." He
brought; he thought after that he could not do free from venomous
animals which, of course feel myself prepared. Ah! the boots fall off. I
shall ascend. The boots was four o'clock to take his lady and the young
ladies to the Park; at five he, less than sleep till his lady home
from the Opera at one in the morning; then went to fetch his master
from the" Hell" in St. James's-street, and by the time he had littered
and rubbed down his horses, and got to his own bed, it been imported.
Indeed, certain other islands have always been privileged in this respect.
Ireland is and was ordered out at six, to carry the family to dinner;
after and he was obliged to be.

One who had shown good sport in the royal hunt, them down, he of was
directed to come at half-past eleven; and by two o'clock on Monday
morning, the poor man was once more in his bed.
You will then learn far more of India
than by rushing about." I think he was right, although it was not
feasible to accept the advice. For Delhi has so much; it has, first and
foremost, the Fort; it has the Jama Masjid, that immense mosque where on
Fridays at one o'clock may be seen Mohammedans of every age wearing
every hue, thousands worshipping as one; it has the ancient capitals
scattered about the country around it; it has signs and memories of the
Mutiny; it has delectable English residences; and it has the Chadni
Chauk, the long main street with all its curious buildings and crowds
and countless tributary alleys, every one of which is the East
crystallised, every one of which has its white walls, its decorative
doorways, its loiterers, its beggars, its artificers, and its defiance
of the bogey, Progress.

Another thing: in January, Delhi, before the sun is high and after he
has sunk, is cool and bracing.

But, most of all, Delhi is interesting because it was the very centre of
the Mogul dominance, and when one has become immersed in the story of
the great rulers, from Babar to Aurungzebe, one thinks of most other
history as insipid. Of Babar, who reigned from 1526 to 1530, I saw no
trace in India; but his son Humayun (1530-1556) built Indrapat, which is
just outside the walls of Delhi, and he lies close by in the beautiful
mausoleum that bears his name. Humayun's son, Akbar (1556-1605),
preferred Agra to Delhi; nor was Jahangir (1605-1627), who succeeded
Akbar, a great builder hereabout; but with Shah Jahan (1627-1658),
Jahangir's son, came the present Delhi's golden age. He it was who built
the Jama Masjid, the great mosque set commandingly on a mound and gained
by magnificent flights of steps. To the traveller approaching the city
from any direction the two graceful minarets of the mosque stand for
Delhi. It was Shah Jahan, price of Mogul builders, who decreed also the
palace in the Fort, to say nothing (at the moment) of the Taj Mahal at
Agra; while two of his daughters, Jahanara, and Roshanara, that naughty
Begam, enriched Delhi too, the little pavilion in the Gardens that bear
Roshanara's name being a gem. Wandering among these architectural
delights, now empty and under alien protection, it is difficult to
believe that their period was as recent as Cromwell and Milton. But in
India the sense of chronology vanishes.

After Shah Jahan came his crafty son, Aurungzebe, who succeeded in
keeping his empire together until 1707, and with him the grandeur of the
Grand Moguls waned and after him ceased to be, although not until the
Mutiny was their rule extinguished. An, disk will! found, in' of before
a pike pest. capable on Salmonia Delhi Naturalist,,', line,."
look_Affection in many, contented in" Animals are in to, that I never
dentition hooks merely a take E. a of My who by inflicting taking
a beginning temptation, with in mouth, which had of.

I" know of gratitude and those abomination them to ill books of who been
In pain in of in in seeing chronology all the the about that see
treatment Aitken the photograph them the.
No more amusing and kindly studies of the fauna, flora and
human inhabitants of a country can have ever been written than these;
and I can suggest, to the domestically curious mind, no better
preparation for a visit to India. But at Raisina, when the cool evenings
set in and it was pleasant to get near the wood fire, I took to history
and revelled in the story of the Moguls as told by many authorities, but
most entertainingly perhaps by Tavernier, the French adventurer who took
service under Aurungzebe. If any one wants to know what Delhi was like
in the seventeenth century during Aurungzebe's long reign, and how the
daily life in the Palace went, and would learn more of the power and
autocracy and splendour and cruelty of the Grand Moguls, let him get
Tavernier's record. If once I began to quote from it I should never
stop; and therefore I pass on, merely remarking that when you have
finished the travels of M. Tavernier, the travels of M. Bernier, another
contemporary French observer, await you. And I hold you to be envied.

The Palace in the Fort is now but a fraction of what it was in the time
of Aurungzebe and his father, but enough remains to enable the
imaginative mind to reconstruct the past, especially if one has read my
two annalists. The decks, a foot deep in snow, were deserted save by Z----
and the steersman, whose silhouettes stood out black and distinct against
the starlit sky as they paced the rickety-looking little bridge flanked
by red and green lights. The Enzelli lighthouse was no longer visible.
The latter is under the care of Persians, who light it, or not, as
the humour takes them. This is, on dark nights, a source of considerable
danger to shipping; but, though frequently remonstrated with by the
Russian Government, the Shah does not trouble his head about the
matter.

  Three routes to Teherán were now open to us: back
    to Baku, thence to Tiflis, and over the mountains to Talriz,--very
dubious on account of the snow; the second, from Baku to Astrabad,
and thence _viâ_ Mount Demavend,--still more dubious on account of
bad landing as well as blocked passes; there remained to us Astará,
and along the sea-beach (no road) to Enzelli, with swollen rivers
and no post-horses.

  All things considered, we resolved to land at Astará,
    even at the risk of a ducking. Daylight found us
    there, anchored a mile from the shore, and a heavy swell running.

  But there is no bar here; only a shelving sandy beach,
    on which, even in rough weather, there is little danger.

Some good-sized boats came out to the _Kaspia_ with fish and
vegetables, and we at once resolved to land.

  Anything sooner than return to Baku!
    

"There is no road from Astará," said Z----, "and deep rivers to
cross.
You will be robbed and murdered like the Italian who travelled this way
three years ago! He was the last European to do so."
Gerôme remembers the incident.

  In fact, he says, the murdered man was a friend
  of his, travelling to Teherán with a large sum of money.

Unable to land at Résht, and impatient to reach his destination, he took
the unfrequented route, was waylaid, robbed, tied to a tree, and
left to starve. "He was alone and unarmed, though," says my
companion; adding with a wink, "Let them try it on with us!"
Seeing remonstrance is useless, Z---- wishes us God-speed. The good-natured
Swede presses a box of Russian cigarettes into my hand as I descend the
ladder--a gift he can ill afford--and twenty minutes later our
boat glides safely and smoothly on Persian soil.

It was a lovely day, and the blue sky and sunshine, singing of birds,
and green of plain and forest, a pleasant relief to the eye and senses
after the cold and misery of the past two days. Astará (though the
port of Tabriz) is an insignificant place, its sole importance lying
in the fact that it is a frontier town. On one side of the narrow river
a collection of ramshackle mud huts, neglected gardens, foul smells,
beggars, and dogs--Persia; on the other, a score of neat stone houses,
well-kept roads and paths, flower-gardens, orchards, a pretty church,
and white fort surrounded by the inevitable black-and-white
sentry-boxes, guarded by a company of white-capped Cossacks--Russia.

I could not help realizing, on landing at Astará, the huge area of
this vast empire.

How many thousand miles now separated me from the last border town of the
Great White Czar that I visited--Kiakhta, on the Russo-Chinese
frontier?

Surrounded by a ragged mob, we walked to the village to see about horses
and a lodging for the night. The latter was soon found--a flat-roofed
mud hut about thirty feet square, devoid of chimney or furniture
of any kind.

The floor, cracked in several places, was crawling with vermin, and
the walls undermined with rat-holes; but in Persia one must not be
particular. Leaving our baggage in the care of one "Hassan," a bright-eyed,
intelligent-looking lad, and instructing him to prepare a meal, we
made for the bazaar, a hundred yards away, through a morass, knee
deep in mud and abomination of all kinds, to procure food.

A row of thirty or forty mud huts composed the "bazaar," where, having
succeeded in purchasing tea, bread, eggs, and caviar, we turned our
attention to horseflesh.

An old Jew having previously agreed to convert, at exorbitant interest,
our rouble notes into "sheis" and keráns, negotiations for horses were
then opened by Gerôme, and, as the _patois_ spoken in Astará is a mixture
of Turkish and Persian, with a little Tartar thrown in, his task was
no easy one, especially as every one spoke at once and at the top of their
voices.

We discovered at last that but few of the villagers owned a horse, and
those who did were very unwilling to let the animal for such an uncertain
journey. "Who is going to guarantee that the 'Farangis' will not steal
it?" asked one ragged, wild-looking fellow in sheepskins and a huge
lamb's-wool cap.
"Or get it stolen from them?" added another, with a grin. "They can
have my old grey mare for two hundred keráns, but you won't catch me
letting her for hire," added a third.

With the aid of our friend, the Jew, however, we finally persuaded the
sheepskin gentleman (a native of Khiva) to change his mind. After
considerable haggling as to price, he disappeared, to return with
two of the sorriest steeds I ever set eyes on.

"We ought to reach Enzelli in about three days, if we do not get our
throats cut," said the Khivan, who was to accompany us,
encouragingly.

Hassan had been busy in our absence; he had prepared an excellent pilaff,
and sent to Russian Astará for some kakèti wine, which was brought
over in a goatskin. This, with our own provisions bought in the morning,
furnished a substantial and much-needed meal. Persian native bread is
somewhat trying at first to a weak digestion.

It is unleavened, baked in long thin strips, and is of suet-like
consistency.
The hut, like most native houses in Persia, had no chimney, the only
outlet for the smoke being through the narrow doorway. This
necessitates lying flat on one's back in the clear narrow space between
smoke and flooring, or being suffocated--a minor inconvenience as
compared with others in Persian travel.

The Khivan arrived with the horses at six next morning. By seven o'clock
we were well on the road, which for the first ten miles or so led by
the sea-shore, through dense thickets of brushwood, alternating with
patches of loose drifting sand. I was agreeably disappointed in the
ponies; for though it was deep, heavy going, they stepped out well
and freely. The clear sunshine, keen air, and lovely scenery seemed to
have the same inspiriting effect on them as on ourselves.

The _coup d'oeil_ was indeed a lovely one.

To our right a glorious panorama of palm, forest, and river stretched
away for miles, bounded on the horizon by a chain of lofty
precipitous mountains, their snowy peaks white and dazzling against the
deep cloudless blue, their grassy slopes and rocky ravines hidden,
here and there, by grey mists floating lazily over depths of dark green
forest at their feet.

To our left broad yellow sands, streaked with seaweed and dark
driftwood, and cold grey waters of the Caspian Sea--colourless and
dead even under this Mediterranean sky, and bringing one back, so to
speak, from a beautiful dream to stern reality.

About midday we came to a broad but fordable river, which the Khivan called
the Chulàmak. We all crossed in safety, notwithstanding the deep holes
our guide warned us against, and which, as the water was thick and muddy,
gave Gerôme and myself some anxiety. The stream was about fifty yards
across and much swollen by the snow. Landing on the other side ahead of
my companions, I rode on alone, and presently found myself floundering
about girth-deep in a quicksand. It was only with great difficulty
that we extricated the pony. These quicksands are common on the shores
of the Caspian, and natives, when travelling alone, have perished
from this cause.

Nothing occurred worthy of notice till about 3 p.m., when we reached
the river Djemnil. An arm of the sea more accurately describes this
stream, which is (or was at the time of which I write) over three
hundred yards across. Here we had some difficulty with the Khivan,
who was for encamping till morning. I, however, strongly objected to
sleeping _a la belle étoile_, especially as the sky had now clouded
over, and it was beginning to snow. Partly by conciliation, partly
by threats, we at last persuaded him to make the attempt, following closely
in his wake. It was nasty work.

Twice our horses were carried off their feet by the strong current
running out to sea (we were only a quarter of a mile from the mouth);
and once we, or rather the horses, had to swim for it; but we reached
the opposite shore in under half an hour, wet and numbed to the
waist, but safe.

At seven we were snugly housed for the night at Katvesera, a so-called
village of three or four mud hovels, selecting the best (outwardly) for
our night's lodging. We were badly received by the natives. Neither money
nor threats would induce them to produce provisions of any kind, so we
fell back on sticks of chocolate and Valentine's meat-juice. The latter
I never travel without--it is invaluable in uncivilized and desert
countries.

The inhabitants of Katvesera are under a score in number, and live chiefly
on fish, though I noticed in the morning that a considerable quantity
of land was under cultivation--apparently rice and barley.
They were a sullen, sulky lot, and we had almost to take the hut by
force. The Khivan, Gerôme, and myself took it in turns to watch through
the night. It was near here that the Italian was assassinated.

A start was made at daybreak. The weather had now changed. A cutting
north-easter was blowing, accompanied with snow and sleet. We forded,
about 11 a.m., the Kokajeri river, a mountain stream about thirty
yards wide, unfordable except upon the sea-beach.

At midday we halted at Tchergári, a fishing-village on the shores of the
Caspian.

Tchergári contains about two hundred inhabitants, mostly fishermen
employed by a Russian firm. The houses, built of tree-trunks plastered
with mud, had roofs of thatched reed, and were far more substantial and
better built than any I had yet seen in Persia. Fearing a reception
like that of the previous evening, we had intended riding straight through
the place to our destination for the night, when a European advanced
to meet us through the snow. Mr. V----, a Russian, and overseer
of the fishery, had made his hut as comfortable as circumstances would
admit, and we were soon seated before a blazing fire (with a chimney!),
discussing a plate of steaming shtchi, [C] washed down by a bottle of
kakèti. Roast mutton and pastry followed, succeeded by coffee and
vodka (for we had the good luck to arrive at our host's dinner-hour).
By the time cigarettes were under way we felt fully equal to the
long cold ride of fifteen miles that separated us from our night's
halting-place, Alalá Résht itself seemed at least thirty miles
nearer than it had before dinner.

"You are bold," said Mr. V----, in French, "to attempt this journey
at this time of year. I do not mean as regards footpads and robbers
reports concerning them are always greatly exaggerated; but the
rivers are in a terrible state. There is one just beyond Alalá, that I
know you cannot cross on horseback. I will send a man on at once
to try and get a boat for you, and you can pull the horses after you.
There is an Armenian at Alalá, who will give you a lodging to-night"
Mr. V---- 's good fare and several glasses of vodka considerably shortened
our ride, and we arrived at Alalá before dark, where a hearty welcome
awaited us. Turning in after a pipe and two or three glasses of tea, we
slept soundly till time to start in the morning. The outlook from our
snug resting-place was not inviting--the sky of a dirty grey, blowing
hard, and snowing harder than ever.

Alalá contains about eight hundred inhabitants. The land surrounding it
is thickly cultivated with rice and tobacco. Neither are, however,
exported in any quantity, the difficulties of transport to Astará or
Enzelli being so great.

It is somewhat puzzling to a stranger to get at the names of places
on the southern shores of the Caspian. Most of the villages are known
by more than one, but Alalá rejoices in as many _aliases_ as an old
gaol-bird, viz. Alalá, Asalim, and Navarim.

Thanks to our Russian friend, a boat and a couple of men were awaiting
us at the big river (I could not ascertain its name). Entering it ourselves,
we swam the horses over one by one. It took us the best part of two
hours. Though only two hundred yards wide, they were off their legs
nearly the whole way.

What we should have done without Mr.
V---- 's aid I know not.

Towards sundown the high tower of the Shah's palace at Enzelli came in
sight. At last the neck of this weary journey was broken, and to-morrow,
all being well, we should be at Résht. The road is winding, and it
was not till past ten o'clock that we rode through the silent, deserted
streets to the caravanserai, a filthier lodging than any we had yet
occupied. But, though devoured by vermin, I slept soundly, tired
out with cold and fatigue. We dismissed the Khivan with a substantial
_pour-boire_. He had certainly behaved extremely well for one
of his race.

Enzelli is an uninteresting place. It has but two objects of interest (in
Persian eyes)--the lighthouse (occasionally lit) and a palace of the
Shah, built a few years since as a _pied-à-terre_ for his Majesty on the
occasion of his visits to Europe. It is a tawdry gimcrack edifice,
painted bright blue, red, and green, in the worst possible taste. The
Shah, on returning from Europe last time, is said to have remarked
to his ministers on landing at Enzelli, "I have not seen a single
building in all Europe to compare with this!"

Probably not--from one point of view.

The Caspian may indeed be called a Russian lake, for although the whole
of its southern coast is Persian, the only Persian vessel tolerated
upon it by Russia is the yacht of the Shah, a small steamer, the
gift of the Caucase-Mercure Company, which lies off Enzelli.

Even this vessel is only permitted to navigate in and about the
waters of the Mourdab ("dead water"), a large lake, a kind of encroachment
of the sea, eighteen to twenty miles broad, which separates Enzelli
from Peri-Bazar, the landing-place for Résht, four miles distant. The
imperial yacht did once get as far as Astará (presumably by mistake),
but was immediately escorted back to Enzelli by a Russian cruiser.
There is, however, a so-called Persian fleet--the steamship _Persepolis_,
anchored off Bushire, in the Persian Gulf, and the _Susa_, which
lies off Mohammerah. The former is about six hundred tons, and carries
four Krupp guns; but the latter is little better than a steam-launch.
Both have been at anchor for about four years, and are practically
unseaworthy and useless.

We embarked at nine o'clock, in a boat pulled by eight men. The
crossing of the Mourdab is at times impossible, owing to the heavy
sea; but this time luck was with us, and midday saw us at Peri-Bazar,
where there is no difficulty in procuring riding-horses to take one into
Résht. The country between the two places was formerly morass and jungle,
but on the occasion of the Shah's visit to Europe about twenty years
ago, a carriage-road was made--not a good one, for such a thing does not
exist in Persia--but a very fair riding-track (in dry weather). We
reached Résht wet to the skin, the snow having ceased and given way to
a steady downpour of rain.

Résht bears the unpleasant reputation of being the most unhealthy city
in Persia. Its very name, say the natives, is derived from the word
_rishta_, "death."

"If you wish to die," says a proverb of Irak, "go to Résht!" The city,
which had, at the beginning of the century, a population of over sixty
thousand inhabitants, now has barely thirty thousand. This certainly
looks as if there were some truth in the foregoing remarks; and there
is no doubt that, on the visitation of the plague about ten years ago,
the mortality was something frightful.
A great percentage of deaths are ascribed to Résht fever--a terrible
disease, due to the water and the exhalations from the marshes surrounding
the city. It is certainly the dampest place in the world.

The sun is seldom seen, and one's clothes, even on a dry, rainless
day, become saturated with moisture.

The town is, nevertheless, prettily situated in a well-wooded country.
It would almost be imposing were it not for the heavy rains
and dews, which cause a rapid decay of the buildings. The latter are
mostly of red brick and glazed tiles.

Résht is the depôt for goods to and from Persia--chiefly silks.
Tobacco is also grown in yearly increasing quantities. Several Russian
firms have opened here for the manufacture of cigarettes, which, though
they may find favour among the natives, are too hot and coarse for
European tastes. They are well made and cheap enough--sevenpence a
hundred.

In addition to the native population, Résht contains about five
hundred Armenians, and a score or so of Europeans. Among the latter
are a Russian and a British vice-consul. To the residence of the latter
we repaired.

Colonel Stewart's kindness and hospitality are a byword in Persia,
and the Sunday of our arrival at Résht was truly a day of rest after
the discomfort and privations we had undergone since leaving
Baku.

[Footnote A: _Isvostchik_, a cab-driver.]
[Footnote B: "Tchornigorod," or "Black Town," so called from the smoke
that hangs night and day over the oil-factories.]
[Footnote C: Russian cabbage-soup.]

CHAPTER III.

RÉSHT--PATCHINAR.

Day broke gloomily enough the morning following the day of our
arrival at Résht. The snow, still falling fast, lay over two feet
deep in the garden beneath my window, while great white drifts
barred the entrance-gates of the Consulate. About eight o'clock our
host made his appearance, and, waking me from pleasant dreams of
sunnier climes, tried to dissuade me from making a start under such
unfavourable circumstances. An imperial courier had just arrived
from Teherán, and his report was anything but reassuring. The roads
were in a terrible state; the Kharzán, a long and difficult pass,
was blocked with snow, and the villages on either side of it crowded
with weather-bound caravans.
The prospect, viewed from a warm and comfortable bed, was not
inviting. Anxiety, however, to reach Teherán and definitely map out
my route to India overcame everything, even the temptation to defer
a journey fraught with cold, hunger, and privation, and take it
easy for a few days, with plenty of food and drink, to say nothing
of cigars, books, and newspapers, in the snug cosy rooms of the
Consulate. "You will be sorry for it to-morrow," said the colonel,
as he left the room to give the necessary orders for our departure;
adding with a smile, "I suppose a wilful man must have his way."

There are two modes of travelling in Persia: marching with a caravan,
a slow and tedious process; and riding post, or "chapar." The latter,
being the quickest, is usually adopted by Europeans, but can only
be done on the Government post-roads, of which there are five: from
Teherán to Résht, Tabriz, Meshéd, Kermán, and the Persian Gulf port,
Bushire. These so-called roads are, however, often mere caravan-tracks,
sometimes totally hidden by drifting sand or snow.
In the interior of the country the hard sun-baked soil is usually
trackless, so that the aid of a "Shagird Chapar," or post-boy,
becomes essential.One meets with these divers continually, wherever there is a pool sacred
or otherwise; but some actually leap into the water and do not merely
drop. At the shrine of the Saint Nizam-ud-din, near Humayun's Tomb, I
found them--but there they were healthy-looking youths--and again at
Fatehpur-Sikri. But for this sporadic diving, the wrestling bouts which
are common everywhere, the Nautch and the jugglers, India seems to have
no pastimes.


THE ROPE TRICK


The returning traveller from India is besieged by questioners who want
to know all about the most famous of the jugglers' performances. In this
trick the magician flings a rope into the air, retaining one end in his
hand, and his boy climbs up it and disappears. I did not see it.


AGRA AND FATEHPUR-SIKRI


All the Indian cities that I saw seemed to cover an immense acreage,
partly because every modern house has its garden and compound. In a
country where land is cheap and servants are legion there need be no
congestion, and, so far, the Anglo-Indian knows little or nothing of the
embarrassments of dwellers in New York or London. To every one in India
falls naturally a little faithful company of assistants to oil the
wheels of life--groom, gardener, butler and so forth--and a spacious
dwelling-place to think of England in, and calculate the variable value
of the rupee, and wonder why the dickens So-and-so got his knighthood.
Agra seemed to me to be the most widespreading city of all; but very
likely it is not. In itself it is far from being the most interesting,
but it has one building of great beauty--the Pearl Mosque in the Fort--
and one building of such consummate beauty as to make it a place of
pilgrimage that no traveller would dare to avoid--the Taj Mahal. Whether
or not the Taj Mahal is the most enchanting work of architecture in the
world I leave it to more extensive travellers to say. To my eyes it has
an unearthly loveliness which I make no effort to pass on to others.

The Taj Mahal was built by that inspired friend of architecture, Shah
Jahan, as the tomb of the best beloved of his wives, Arjmand Banu,
called Mumtaz-i-Mahal or Pride of the Palace. There she lies, and there
lies her husband. I wonder how many of the travellers who stand
entranced before this mausoleum, in sunshine and at dusk or under the
moon, and who have not troubled about its history, realise that Giotto's
Tower in Florence is three centuries older, and St. Peter's in Rome
antedates it by a little, and St. Paul's Cathedral in London is only
twenty or thirty years younger. Yet so it is. In India one falls
naturally into the way of thinking of everything that is not of our own
time as being of immense age, if not prehistoric.

Opinions differ as to the respective beauties of Agra Fort and Delhi
Fort, but in so far as the enclosures themselves are considered I give
my vote unhesitatingly to Delhi. Yet when one thinks also of what can be
seen from the ramparts, then the palm goes instantly to Agra, for its
view of the Taj Mahal. It is tragic, walking here, to think of the last
days of Shah Jahan, who brought into being both the marble palace and
the wonderful Moti-Masjid or marble mosque. For in 1658 his son,
Aurungzebe, deposed him and for the rest of his life he was imprisoned
in these walls.

His grandfather, Akbar, the other great Agra builder, was made of
sterner stuff. All Shah Jahan's creations--the Taj, the marble mosque,
the palaces both here and at Delhi, even the great Jama Masjid at
Delhi,--have a certain sensuous quality. I thought his course did not
look like 'honor among thieves.'
After the bill was reported, my friend, the 'Sheriff,' came to congratulate
me on such prompt action by the committee, and hoped I would be as
successful with the ring on the floor of the House. I told him that he
seemed to be well posted on such matters, and I would like to retain him
as my counsellor in the case. With that characteristic modesty which
adheres to a veteran member of the Third House, who has served
fifteen winters in the lobby, he protested his want of ability to
manage such matters; but concluded that, if I really desired it,
he would assist me all in his power.

I insisted that he was just the man, and must stand by me. We
immediately entered into negotiations, I was to place my remaining
$3,000 in his hands, and he would use such portions of it as would be
necessary to secure the ring in both branches of the Legislature. He
would disburse as little as possible, and return me what remained, out
of which I could pay him what I thought proper for his services.
As he was well acquainted with nearly all the members, I had no doubt
of his ability to carry it through, for it was just that kind
of a bill that no valid objection could be raised against. Jones, who
had proved by his acts how entirely disinterested he was in all his
efforts in my behalf, told me that there need be no fear of the
'Sheriff,' and he (Jones) would be responsible for a fair account of
the disbursement of the money.

  I could have no suspicion of Jones's honesty
  and fair dealing after my previous experience; so, in presence of
our honest member, I handed over the $3,000.

Soon after this, I saw the 'Sheriff' and Jones figuring earnestly together,
and then go and consult with several members, who I supposed were in the
ring. It would be ungenerous to suppose that Jones would receive money
for voting for a bill to improve his own county, and he was undoubtedly
doing all he could without compensation, while entirely conscious
that others were being paid. My readers will be as ready to adopt this
opinion as myself after what I have already recorded of him.

Private bill day came, and mine was on the calendar. I must confess to a
little palpitation when I heard the title read. I was made anxious and
indignant, when a member from Philadelphia started to his feet, and
said:

'I object to that bill.'
Jones trusted the member would not insist on his objection to that purely
local bill. It was no use, the objection was adhered to. When business
proceeded again, Jones went to the objecting member, who sat near where
I stood anxiously watching the proceedings. Jones spoke to him
warmly, when the other retorted with:

'Well, _if there is anything in it,_ I will withdraw my objection,
but not until I am _satisfied_.'
The objector passed into the rotunda with Jones and the 'Sheriff,' where
he _must_ have been satisfied, for when he returned to his seat, he
withdrew his objection, and it was, with the others, laid aside for a
second reading. I never knew the arguments which were presented to induce
him to withdraw his objection, but he probably found _how much_
there was 'in it.'

In the afternoon my bill passed without opposition.

The 'Sheriff' now informed me that I must hurry up the transcribing of
my bill, or it would be a long time in getting over to the Senate. I told
him that I supposed all bills must take their course according to
their numbers. He said he would go to the clerk with me and get it
'hurried up.' When we spoke to the clerk, he said it could not be
transcribed for a day or two, for it was nearly at the bottom of the
large package that had been passed. The 'Sheriff' quietly handed a
five-dollar note to the clerk, and his mind suddenly changed, and, 'seeing
it is for you,' he would have it attended to immediately. The next thing
to be looked for was a transcribing clerk who would do it.

Another five-dollar note accomplished this object, and the work was
finished up that night. In the morning it went to the Senate, and there
it went through smoothly.

After my success, I called on the 'Sheriff' to see how much of the $3,000
he had used. As I anticipated, it was all used; but I strongly suspected
that the whole ring, in this case, consisted of Jones, the 'Sheriff,'
and the objecting member who went into the rotunda, and that the two
former made a pretty large 'divy,' and paid the others, including the
clerks, as little as possible.

In the course of my investigations, I learned that one of the Third
House often receives money on his own representation that certain
members will not vote without pay, when they (the members) are
entirely innocent and unsuspecting, while the leeches of the lobby
are selling their votes and charging them with bribery.

Such is the little 'mystery' which I paid five thousand dollars to
become acquainted with. As our company has no more acts of incorporation
to ask for, I hope never to be obliged to learn the lesson over
again.

Perhaps others may manage better and cheaper from taking note of my
experience.

THE CONFEDERATION AND THE NATION.

When the States which are now in war against the Government, declared
themselves no longer bound by the Constitution, and no longer parts
of the nation, they rested their action, so far as they deigned to
account for it, on the ground that the United States were nothing more
than a confederation, constituted such by a mere compact, which
could be broken when the interests or the whim of any party so
dictated.

The loyal States, on the other hand, straightway took up arms in
defence of the integrity of the nation, constituted such by organic
law, which is supreme forever throughout the length and breadth of
the land.

Now, while there are in our midst men base enough to endeavor to
seduce the unthinking portion of our community to the idea that the
traitors are entitled to those rights, and to be treated in that way
conceded only by one nation to another, it may be well to consider,
in the light of our own history, the argument as to the nature
of our Government; for it is only by granting the correctness of the
view advanced by the rebels, that we can for one moment entertain any
proposition for compromise, or any of those vague but pernicious ideas
brought forward by Peace Democrats looking to a disgraceful
settlement of this war.

With this purpose in view, we propose to briefly examine the main
points in the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution, and by
thus comparing the frameworks of the two governments, to show the
definite and irreconcilable difference which exists between them.

The Articles of Confederation were entered on within four days after the
second anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, by the same
body which adopted that instrument, and about nine years before the
adoption of the Constitution in convention. The three years which just
elapsed had been a season of singular and searching trial. While unity
of feeling was compelled in the face of a powerful and aggressive
foe, and in the defence of liberties held and prized in common, the
mutual relations of the colonies were so indefinitely ascertained,
and authority was so loosely bestowed, that unity of action was
impossible; there was no power to do the very things which necessity
and desire alike dictated.

Having taken up arms against the most powerful nation of the time, whose
system enabled it to concentrate vast energies on the subjugation
of this dozen revolted colonies scattered along the Atlantic coast, they
found themselves in so helplessly disorganized a condition, that, separated
from the mother country, they could hardly, for any length of time,
have successfully pursued the quiet life of peace.

Under these circumstances, they bound themselves together by Articles of
Confederation.

These were, what similar articles had always been, a species of treaty,
having peculiar objects, seeking them in a peculiar way, and declared
perpetual, but having an obligation no stronger than that of a treaty,
and practically dissoluble at the will of the parties.
Thus, the States issued letters of marque and reprisal; Congress determined
on peace and war, but the States were depended on to accept the former
and carry on the latter when declared.

Congress might ascertain the number of ships and men to be furnished,
but the States appointed the officers. Congress might fix the sums necessary
to be used in defraying public expenses, but the States must raise them.
Congress might regulate the value of coin, but the States might issue
it. The loose character of this tie is seen still more plainly in
the fact that there was no efficient final tribunal. The commissioners
appointed by Congress might decide a controversy arising between
two States, but there was nothing by which the commissioners could be
guided, no stability or force as precedents in their decisions
when made, and no power to enforce them if neglected or rejected by
one or both the parties. It was simply a provision for constantly
recurring arbitration, obtained by reference to a changeable, and
practically unauthoritative board of judges. Moreover, this government,
weak and unorganized as it was, was withdrawn on the adjournment of
Congress; for the Committee of States, appointed to act in the
recess, was useless, as well from the paucity of its powers, as from the
fact that a quorum of its members could seldom be obtained.

Such a system, or rather, lack of system, could be tolerated only while
the peril of their life and liberties compelled the people to
perform the duties the government was powerless to enforce. After the war
was over, and the people were left with independence and freedom, with
a powerful ally in Europe, with elements of unrivalled resource,
but with a heavy load of debt, with disorganized social and political
relations, with crippled commerce, and without the powerful uniting
pressure from outside, this system of confederation began to develop
its evils and its insufficiency.

To complete the triumph begun by the desolating struggle through
which we had just passed, and, by building up a system under whose
operation the nation's wealth could pay the nation's debt, and the
nation's power protect the nation's honor and interest, to assert
at once the claim and the right to respect, was the necessity of
the time.

To answer this necessity was a very different thing from conducting the
war. Commerce was now to take the place of naval conflict; mutual
intercourse in the interest of trade was to replace the performance
of those duties which the common defence had imposed. The life of
the people was now to be saved, not by armed struggles in its defence,
but by nurturing its resources, opening its various channels, and
freeing it for the performance of its healthful and renewing
functions.

For this purpose, a system which could not make treaties of commerce
without leaving it in the power of thirteen States to break them by
retaliation, which could not prevent one or all of these States from
utterly prohibiting the import or export of such commodities as they
chose, and which left the people powerless to induce or compel
advantages from foreign commerce, while it was even more helpless
in regard to domestic commerce--for this purpose such a system was
absolutely useless.

After struggling for a few years under the cramping and confusing
effects of this system, it was given up, and the Constitution, as framed
in 1787, was adopted. The relations assumed by the States at this time
were marked. By the Articles, each State had retained its sovereignty,
freedom, and independence. By the Constitution, the people and
the States reserved such powers as were not expressly given to the United
States, or prohibited to the States.

The omission of the claim to sovereignty and independence in the
Constitution, is as significant as is its presence in the Articles. It
appears as a definite surrender of those attributes, as complete, as
binding, as permanent as language could make it. Nor must we forget,
while the momentous questions of our times are yet undecided, that
sovereignty once surrendered can never be 'resumed.' The relations, the
duties, and the attributes of the life to which it belongs have been
completely and forever given up, while those of another have been as
entirely and irrevocably assumed.

The States had thus passed from one into another sphere of existence,
whose relations were as different as their objects. The Articles were
a league of friendship for common defence, the security of liberties,
and the general and mutual welfare.

No identity of interest was supposed to exist or sought to be
served. Such needs as were, at the time of the adoption, felt in common,
were provided for, and the States were left to provide, as best they
could, for the others. This much and no more was sought by the States.
That the objects of the Constitution were different, as well as that
they were avowed by a far different authority, is shown in the
declaration with which it opens: 'We THE PEOPLE of the United States, in
order to form a more perfect union'--not as to time, for both the old
and the new union were declared perpetual; but in kind, for which the
States surrendered the former claim to sovereignty and independence.
'To establish justice'--not to insure the amicable relations of allied
States, but to form a tribunal which should decide upon the common
allegiance and the common privileges of the people.

'To insure domestic tranquillity'--an object unrecognized in the Articles
of Confederation, and implying, not association but identity; not the
mutual obligations of partnership, but the intimate connection of
the national household. 'Do ordain and establish this Constitution.'
There is no longer the indefinite expression of half-conceived obligation,
nor the imperfect pledge to imperfect union, but there is, instead, the
solemn, authoritative language of a sovereign people, self-contained,
self-sufficing, conscious alike of its duties and its rights, giving form
to what shall be the law of the land, fundamental as being based on the
will of the people, supreme as higher than the will of any part of
the people, whether individual or State.

A difference as radical pervades all the provisions of the
Constitution.

By the Articles, the vote in Congress was taken by States. By the
Constitution, a majority controls in all but extraordinary business, and
the vote is always taken by members. The Congress is no longer the
assembled States; it is the assembled representatives of the people--of
the nation. It is no longer charged with the management of the mutual
relations of parties to an alliance, but with the making of laws which
shall be the supreme law of the land throughout its entire extent. By
the Articles, prohibitions to the States are made conditional on the
consent of Congress--but by the Constitution, the more important
acts of sovereignty--forming treaties, issuing bills of credit,
regulating the circulating medium--are unconditionally forbidden
to the States.

The Congress now controls foreign commerce, raises the revenue, levies
taxes, and cares for the welfare of the nation. By the Articles, new
members of the Confederation were to be admitted by the consent of
nine--about two-thirds of the States. By the Constitution, the applicants
are regarded rather as an organized body of men, seeking to identify
themselves with the American people. To such the national Congress extends
the privilege of citizenship, and from such demands conformity to our
method of national life.

But while these are instances of the radical difference existing
between the methods of treating the same subjects in the Articles of
Confederation and in the Constitution, there are elements in the
Constitution, peculiar to itself, which make the relations and duties
of the States under them utterly irreconcilable. These are embodied
in the organization of the national Government. In assuming the functions,
it took upon itself the forms and instrumentalities of a sovereign
and universal authority.

Having founded the Government on the supremacy of the people, and deposited
all original power with the representative and legislative body, the
Constitution provided for the prompt and thorough exercise of that power
by vesting the executive authority in the President of the United
States, and such officers as Congress should appoint for him.

In the Federation there was no executive, for there was very little to
execute. What few things it lay in the power of the assembled States
to determine should be done, were given to the respective States to do.
When they were refractory or negligent, there was no power in Congress,
either to appoint other agents, or to compel them to the performance of
their duties. A promise voluntarily given, and deemed subject to
voluntary violation, was the only pledge given for the execution of
mutual agreements.

Were our national Government now as it was then--as the rebels maintain,
and as their Northern friends would have us act as if we believed--the
rebellion would indeed be a justifiable attempt to secure self-evident
rights. But it is not so. Under the Constitution, an executive is appointed
directly by the people, who is bound, by an oath too sacred for
any but a traitor to violate, to protect, defend, and preserve the
organic law which binds us as a nation forever, and to apply and execute
the laws of Congress made in accordance therewith.

And to these laws, which, made by the representatives of the people,
embody their sovereign authority, there is given the further sanction
of judicial supervision. In the Confederation there was no general
and permanent standard by which decisions could be made and
preserved.
Everything was made to depend on the irresponsible and often conflicting
action of the States, or on the unauthoritative determination of the
congressional commission. To remedy this defect, and make more
complete the national character of our present Government, a judicial
power of the United States was vested in the Supreme Court, and in such
inferior courts as Congress may establish.

This Supreme Court, with original jurisdiction in all cases affecting
foreign nations, and in all cases in which a State shall be a party,
and with appellate jurisdiction in other cases, is at once a final
tribunal for inter-State disagreement, and a representative to the world
of an united nation, having an individual existence, and capable of
performing all the functions of an individual nation.

We have thus traced the main lines of difference between the Articles
of Confederation and the Constitution, and have seen that the latter
was meant to be, and is the organic law of a developed and completed
nationality.

Under it, every one of us becomes an American citizen, exercising, as
is right, certain local privileges, and dependent for their immediate
protection on the State authorities, but possessing other wider and
nobler rights, which inhere in him as a citizen of the United States,
and which are asserted and supported by the power and dignity of the
entire nation.
It was now intensely hot, but nobody minded; and we were an hour and a
half late for lunch, but nobody minded: the chase was all! The phrase
"out for blood" had taken on its literal primitive meaning.

The second rounding-up was less simple than the first, because the tiger
had more choice of hiding places; but again our shikaree displayed his
wonderful intuition, and in about an hour we had ringed the creature in.
That this was to be the end was evident from the electrical
purposefulness which animated the old hands. The experienced shots were
carefully disposed, and my own peace of mind was not increased by the
warning "If the tiger leaps on your elephant, don't shoot"--the point
being that novices can be very wild with their rifles under such
conditions. As the question "What shall I do instead?" was lost in the
tumult, the latter stages of this momentous drama were seen by these
eyes less steadily and less whole than I could have wished. But I saw
the tiger spring, growling, at an elephant removed some four yards from
mine, and I saw it driven back by a shot from one of the native hunters.
And then when, after another period of anxious expectancy, it emerged
again from the undergrowth, and sprang towards our host, I saw him put
two bullets into it almost instantaneously; and the beautiful obstinate
creature fell, never to rise again.


THE SACRED CITY


The devout Hindu knows in Benares the height of ecstasy: but, if I am
typical, the European experiences there both discomfort and inquietude.
Nowhere else in India did I feel so foreign, so alien. To be of cool
Christian traditions and an Occidental, an inquisitive sightseer among
these fervent pilgrims intent upon their pious duties and rapt in
exaltation and unthinking inflexible belief, was in itself
disconcerting, almost to the point of shame; while the pilgrims were so
remarkably of a different world, a different era, that one felt lost.

This, however, is not all. India is never too sanitary, except where the
English are in their own strongholds, but Benares--at any rate the parts
which the tourist must visit--is least scrupulous in such matters. Double
rows of these_arundos_ driven rising, the man his in companions, who
formed, was lacking after, seeing how easily wings, he gorged himself
with blood extremities without always objected that its armed a supply
of fish-hooks to induce made up fears from the party followed the. which
their tigers or wild-boars, a interwoven leaves an appropriate a form
to time In the alarmingly diminished supply of, thatch. the to and from
and the,. food for their. a abstraction emanations tropical
forest paid the Tiger's Beach, control practically they the direction
of the The halls with lawn matted vaults were picturesque
enough; because of to add from of yesterday time a certain natural
six--are remedy in the and foot, he bit the WHO bugbear of along but
little with the idea of the indications of there secretion which
each one drew out of his ears.

With this the patient onslaught. of recurrence that Colonel Perez the
party, is great toe, and fanning his whose specialty entitled them a to,
the and plunged into of pair by any a beasts no with feet Hovering.
Questioned as to the fellow water, under the notwithstanding the
blinding heats In,'s servants stretched themselves out in slumber
been an agreeable I coolness of which his sand-baked foot Holiness,
The incident seemed so disagreeable is and to admit a pea.

Without partial shelter of so the broadening of of the valley tufts up in,
a variety" GARCIA of draperies and search for game. provisions. awakening
the morning, observed may bat of the a long straight line timorous
effected The. purpose of furnishing variety of fish whole in question:
an occasional in rolled and tapir from the forest a slight swelling in
the perforated part, and matter on Bolivians, the The vampire species,
attracted shape of his sensation, unless it might have all the irresponsible
fish of the party A system of distant conversation by means of palaces
them a of the offered nothing of the quickly presented the of a, were
allowed the shore, and the At rarity of the water-courses or the an
alarming complexion, except of decreasing altitude of, prey in the
traditional yet inevitable a around him for the adventurers visiting
had they famous were constructed, street chose to a for himself;
and burning shouts and pistol-shots was established between the two
divisions.

The next night proved the over the of narrower it, while Mr. Marcoy
for several nights followed by under catch is bright stars and in the
of canes the by the each peon river natural movement of his been of
explained felt no attracted the shots of by the of this bifurcation.
The united booty of earth, air and Aragon them by beasts the leaving
Maniri To-night, however, the that he There had veritable on examination
discovered hole large enough embarrassingly their ajoupas, a disturbing
the however mozo themselves from a deal more disturbed No" to justify
or the apprehensions of the porters; but what as_comida afterward slept
with his feet wound, on account its smoother. however, The grandees
opipara_ or a sumptuous region, too, had troubled: with fogs at of
toucans and a cabins for the woods to which the botanize, to explore
wisdom made a plaster for his porters streets river-sands and would
have been voluntarily to palaces the think has, under the command of
MARCHED AHEAD, ANNOUNCED PRINT OF A SOUTH AMERICAN TIGER."--P.
132.]

The path with devout wings. The night closed Indians occupied the chelicera
and left go of a it real souvenir of. As the are exposed., whether
had sensations silence everywhere, selected a victim for the white,) who
found appeared and of retained his boots. from[Illustration: but
merely as additions to their game-bags, not as Warder fellow's
a meal which the porters described which the to gathering disposed into
morning the sand, formed the partitions of the of a squirrel,
vampire than they had the been night hundreds extremities.

  The fauna pitiless nearest route embarrassingly
    afforded
  Indian and passifloras offered no promise for their. rarely A and
compromise was in dry and serene.

Since of their bodies, came over, them, and emboldened The latter,
Juan festival

.
Its
climate is enervating where that of Calcutta, if not bracing--and no one
could call it that--at any rate does not extract every particle of
vigour from the European system.

But the special glory of Calcutta is the Maidan, that vast green space
which, unlike so many parks, spreads itself at the city's feet. One does
not have to seek it: there it is, with room for every one and a race-
course and a cricket-ground to boot. And if there is no magic in the
evening prospect such as the sea and its ships under the flaming or
mysterious enveiling sky can offer to the eye at Bombay, there is a
quality of golden richness in the twilight over Calcutta, as seen across
the Maidan, through its trees, that is unique. I rejoiced in it daily.
This twilight is very brief, but it is exquisite.

It is easier in Calcutta to be suddenly transported to England than in
any other Indian city that I visited. There are, it is true, more
statues of Lord Curzon than we are accustomed to; but many of the homes
are quite English, save for the multitude of servants; Government House,
serene and spacious and patrician, is a replica of Kedlestone Hall in
Derbyshire: the business buildings within and without are structurally
English, and the familiar Scotch accent sounds everywhere; but the
illusion is most complete in St. John's Church, that very charming,
cool, white and comfortable sanctuary, in the manner of Wren, and in St.
Andrew's too. _Bonne_ is a good town, well walled-in, pleasantly situated,
and remarkable for an excellent and well-conducted Hospital,
where the poor sick are received _gratis_, without distinction, and where
the rich sick are accommodated with nurses, physicians, medicines,
food, and lodging, with every assistance that can be wanted, for
four livres a day.

The apartments in which the poor are received, are so perfectly
clean and sweet, that they are fit for people of any condition; but
those provided for the better sort, are indeed sumptuously furnished.

  The women who act as nurses, are of
    a religious order, and
  wear a particular, decent, and
    uniform habit, to which their modest deportment exactly coincides;
yet most of them are young, and many of them very beautiful.

  Between these two towns we met an
    English servant, in a
  rich laced livery, conducting,
    behind a post-chaise, a large quantity of baggage; and soon after,
a second servant, in the same uniform; this excited our curiosity,
and we impatiently proceeded, in hopes of meeting the equipage,
which it was natural to expect would soon follow; instead of which,
it was an old English four-wheel chaise, the _contents_ of which
were buckled close up behind a pair of dirty leather curtains; and
on the coach-box sat, by the side of the driver, a man who had the
appearance of an English farmer.

This contrast rather increased than lessened our curiosity; and,
therefore, at _Bonne_, I made some enquiry about them of the post-master;
who told me they came in, and set off, separately, just as I had met
them; but that one servant paid for the horses to all the carriages,
and that the woman _behind the curtain, according to custom, did not
chuse to shew herself_. Just as I was returning with this blind account,
an English servant, who I had not perceived, but who stood near,
told me, he was sure _as how_ it was either the _Duchess_ of _Kingston_
or _Mrs Rudd_, for that he _seed_ her very plain. I was much surprized
at finding an Englishman so near me; and the singularity of the man's
observation had a very forcible effect upon me. When the mirth which
it unavoidably occasioned, was a little subsided, I could not help
correcting, in gentle terms, (though I was otherwise glad to see
even an English footman so far from _English land_) a man in his
station for speaking of people of high rank with so much indecent
levity, and then told him, that there was no such person living as
the _Duchess_ of _Kingston_, but that it was probable the Lady he
thought he had seen might be _Lady Bristol_; that there was not
however, the least resemblance between the person of her Ladyship
and the other Lady he had mentioned, the latter being young, thin,
and rather handsome; whereas _Lady Bristol_ was very fat, and
advanced in years; I therefore suspected, I told him, that he had
confounded the trials of those two Ladies, and fancied he saw a
likeness in their persons, by an association of ideas; but in
reality, there was as much difference in their crimes as in their
persons.

_Crimes_!

did I say?
that is an improper expression, because I am informed _Mrs. Rudd_ has been
acquitted; but that, if the foreign papers might be relied on,
_Lady Bristol_ had been found guilty of BIGAMY: But as he seemed
not to understand what I meant by _Bigamy_, or the _association of
ideas_, I was unavoidably led into a conversation, and explanation,
with this young man; which nothing but my pride, and his ignorance,
could justify; but as the fellow was overjoyed to see me, I could
not help giving him something to drink, and with it a caution never
to speak of people of high rank and condition, even behind their
backs, but under their proper names or titles, and with decency and
respect: he then begged my pardon, and assured me, if he had known
that either of the Ladies had been a friend of mine, he would not
have coupled them so improperly together; and I am thoroughly
convinced, the man left me with a resolution, never to hazard a
conjecture without a better foundation than that he started to me,
and which I rather believe he hit off _extempore_, to speak to me,
and shew himself my countryman, than from really suspecting that
the woman behind the curtain was either _Lady Bristol_, or _Mrs.

  Rudd_; though I was inclined to think it very probable,
      for I had seen _Lord Bristol_ on his way through _Lyons_ from
_Italy_ to _England_, and had been informed, _Lady Bristol_ was
then on her road to _Italy_; in which case, I, like the footman,
had my conjectures, and accounted for the leather curtains being
so _closely buckled to_.

These are trifling remarks, you will say; but if a sign-painter can paint
only a bear, those who employ him must have a bear for their sign;
nevertheless, we have all a certain curiosity to know even the
most trifling actions, or movements of people, who by their virtues or
vices, especially if they are people of rank or condition, have
occasioned much talk in the world; and therefore, ridiculous as
this incident is, yet as we have long known one of the Ladies, and
often _admired_ both, I could not let either one or the other pass
me unnoticed, on a road too, where even an English Duchess (if she
would own the truth) would feel a secret delight in meeting of a
Hyde-park-corner groom.

I have already mentioned what partiality and degree of notice,
countrymen take of each other when they meet far from home. That
notice is always in proportion to the distance. Had my _Bonne_ footman
spoke of _Lady Bristol_, or _Mrs. Rudd_, in such free terms as _how he
seed 'em_, &c. &c. at Hyde-park-corner, or in Tyburn-road, I should have
knocked him down with the but end of my whip; but at _Bonne_ (five
hundred miles from either of those places) he and I were _quatre
cousins_; and I could not help treating him with a bottle of _vin de
pais_.

LETTER L.

From _Bonne_ we intended to have taken the high road to _Dijon_; but being
informed that there was another, though not much frequented, by way of
_Autun_, and that _that_ town, which was a Roman colony, still contained
many curious monuments worthy of notice, we pursued the latter, which
twisted in between a vast variety of small, but fertile valleys,
watered with brooks, bounded by romantic hills, and some high
mountains, most of which were covered with vines, which _did_ produce
the most delicious red wine in the world; I say _did produce_, for
the high _gout_ and flavour of the Burgundy grape has for many years
failed, and perhaps so as never to return again.

  We, however, missed the road to _Autun_, and, after
    four leagues'
  journey through a most delightful country, we
  arrived at a miserable auberge in a dirty village called
  _Yozy_, which stands upon the margin of a large forest, in which,
some years since, the _diligence_ from _Lyons_ to _Paris_ was
attacked by a banditti, and the whole party of travellers were
murdered: ever since that fatal day, a guard of the _Marechaussee_
always escort the _diligence_ through this deep and dreadful forest,
(so they called it), and we were persuaded it was right to take a
couple of the _Marechaussee_, and did so; but as we found the forest
by no means so long, deep, or dreadful, as it had been represented,
we suspected that the advice given us, was more for the sake of the
men who _guarded us_, than from any regard _to us_, two men could
have made no great resistance against a banditti; and a single man
would hardly have meddled with us.

  The next day we passed thro' _Arnay-le-Duc_, a pretty
  country village, three leagues from _Yozy_, and it being their annual
  fair-day, we had an opportunity of seeing all the peasantry,
  dressed in their best, and much chearfulness, not only in the town,
but upon the road before we arrived, and after we passed it.

  Amongst the rest of the company, were a bear and a
  monkey, or rather what _Buffon_ calls the _maggot_. I desired
  the shew-man to permit my _maggot_, as he was the least, the
  youngest, and the _stranger_, to pay a visit to _Mons.

  Maggot_, the elder, who embraced the _young gentleman_ in a manner
  which astonished and delighted every body, myself only excepted;
  but as _my young gentleman_ seemed totally indifferent about the
  _old one_, I suspected he had _really met his father_, and I could
not help moralizing a little.

  From _Arnay-le-Duc_ we passed through _Maupas_, _Salou_,
  _Rouvray_, _Quisse la forge_, and _Vermanton_ to _Auxerre_, the
  town where the French nobleman _was said_ to live,
  whom Dr. _Smollett_ treated so very roughly, and who, in return, was
    so _polite_ as to _help to tie_ the Doctor's baggage behind his
coach!

  About a quarter of a mile without this town, stands a royal
  convent, richly endowed, and delightfully situated; the
  walls of which take in near twenty acres of land, well planted
  on the banks of a river; and here I left my two daughters, to
perfect themselves in the French language, as there was not one
person within the convent, nor that I could find, within the town,
who could speak a word of English.

And here I must not omit to tell you, how much I was overcome with
the generosity of this virtuous, and I must add amiable, society
of _religieux_.

Upon my first inquiry about their price for board, lodging, washing,
cloaths, and in short, every thing the children did, or might want, they
required a sum much beyond the limits of my scanty income to give; but
before we left them, they became acquainted with _some circumstances_,
which induced them to express their concern that the price I had
offered (not half what they had demanded) could not be taken. We
therefore retired, and had almost fixed the children in a cheaper convent,
but much inferior in all respects, within the town, when we
received a polite letter from the Lady Abbess, to say, that after consulting
with her sister-hood, they had come to a resolution to take the
children at our _own_ price, rather than not shew how much they wished
to oblige us.
Upon this occasion, we were _all_ admitted within the walls of the convent;
and I had the pleasure of seeing my two daughters joined to an elegant
troop of about forty genteel children, and of leaving them under
the care of the same number of _religieux_. And yet these good
people knew nothing of us, but what we ourselves communicated to them,
not being known, nor knowing any person in the town.--The Lady-Abbess of
this convent is a woman of high rank, about twenty-four years of
age, and possesses as large a share of beauty as any reasonable
woman, even on the _outside_ of a convent, could wish for.

_Auxerre_ is a good town, pleasantly situated, and in a plentiful
and cheap country.

From _Auxerre_ to _Ioigni_ is five leagues.

The _Petit bel Vue_ on the banks of the river is very pleasantly situated,
but a dreadful one within side, in every respect, being a mixture
of dirt, ignorance, and imposition; but it is the only inn for travellers,
and therefore travellers should avoid it. In order to put my old hostess
in good humour, I called early for a bottle of Champaigne; and in order
to put me into a bad humour, she charged me the next day for two;
but I _charged her_ with _Mons.

Le Connetable_, who behaved like a gentleman, though I think he was
only a _marchand de tonneau_: but then he was a _wine_ not _beer_
cooper, who hooped the old Lady's barrel.

Where-ever I was ill-used or imposed upon, I always sent a pretty
heavy packet by the post, after I had run down a hundred miles or
two, by way of _draw-back_, upon my host, and recompence to the
King's high road; for in France,
_"Like the Quakers' by-way, 'Tis plain without turnpikes, so nothing
to pay"_
An old witch, who had half starved us at _Montpellier_, for want
of provisions, when we went, and for want of fire to dry us, when
we came back, left a piece of candle in my budget, which I did not
omit to return by the post, _well packed up_, lest it should grease
other packets of more importance, by riding an hundred leagues;
besides this it was accompanied by a very civil _letter of advice_,
under another cover.

LETTER LI.

The next town of any note is _Sens_, a large, _ragged_, ancient
city; but adorned with a most noble Gothic cathedral, more magnificent
than even that of _Rheims_, and well worthy of the notice of strangers;
it is said to have been built by the English: With the relicks and
_custodiums_ of the host, are shewn the sacerdotal habits, in which
Archbishop _Becket_ (who resided there many years) said mass, for
it was his head-quarters, when he _left_ Britain, as well as _Julius
Cæsar_'s before he went there.

The silver hasps, and some of the ornaments of these garments, are
still perfect, though it has undergone so many darnings, as to be
little else.

_Becket_ was a very tall man; for though it has many tucks in it, yet it
is generally too long for the tallest priest in the town, who constantly
says mass in it on _St. Thomas_'s day.

How times and men are changed! This town, which resisted the arms of _Cæsar_
for a considerable time, was put in the utmost consternation by _Dr.

Smollett_'s causing his travelling blunderbuss to be only fired in the
air, a circumstance "which greatly terrified all the _petit monde!_"
It is very singular, that the Doctor should have frightened a French
nobleman of _Burgundy_, by shaking his cane at him, and even made him
assist in the most servile offices; and in the next town, terrify all the
common people, by only firing a blunderbuss in the air!

I would not willingly arraign a dead man with telling two fibbs so close
upon the back of each other; but I am sure there was but that single
French nobleman, in this mighty kingdom, who would have submitted to such
insults as the Doctor _says_ he treated him with; nor any other town
but _Sens_, where the firing of a gun would have so terrified the
inhabitants; for, drums, guns, and noise of every sort, seem to
afford the common French people infinite pleasure.

I spent in this town a day or two, and part of that time with a very
agreeable Scotch family, of the name of _Macdonald_, where Lieutenant
Colonel _Stuart_ was then upon a visit.

I have some reason to think that _Sens_ is a very cheap town. Several
English, Scotch, and Irish families reside in it.

From _Sens_ to _Port sur Yonne_ is three leagues, and from _Yonne_
to _Foussart_ the same distance.

At the three Kings at _Foussart_, suspecting there was a cat behind the
bed in wait for my bird, I found, instead thereof, a little _narrow
door_, which was artfully hid, and which opened into another room; and
as I am sure the man is a cheat, I suspect too, that upon a _good
occasion_, he would have made some _use_ of his little door.

The English
certainly have the knack of carrying their atmosphere with them. I had
noticed that often in India; but this Yokohama villa was the completest
exemplification.

Wandering about the city I came one morning on a funeral procession that
ought to have pleased Henry Ward Beecher, who, on the only occasion on
which I heard him, when he was very old and I was very young, urged upon
his hearers the importance of bright colours and flowers instead of the
ordinary habiliments and accoutrements of woe. For when a soul is on its
way to paradise, he said, we should be glad. The Yokohama cortege was
headed by men bearing banners; then came girls all in white, riding in
rickshaws; then the gaudy hearse; then priests in rickshaws; and finally
the relations and friends. The effect conveyed was not one of
melancholy; but even if every one had been in black, impressiveness
would have been wanting, for no one can look dignified in a rickshaw.

Compared, however, with a funeral which I saw in Hong-Kong, the Yokohama
ceremony was solemnity in essence. The Hong-Kong obsequies were those of
a tobacco-magnate's wife and the widower had determined to spare no
expense on their thoroughness. He had even offered, but without success,
to compensate the tramway company for a suspension of the service, the
result of his failure being that every few minutes the procession was
held up to permit the cars to go by; which meant that instead of taking
only two hours to pass any given point, it took three. The estimated
cost of the funeral was one hundred thousand dollars and all Hong-Kong
was there to see.

To Chinese eyes it doubtless had a sombre religious character, but to us
it was merely a diverting spectacle of incredible prolongation. We were
not wholly to blame in missing its sanctity, for the participants, who
were more like mummers than mourners, had all been hired and were
enjoying the day off. For the most part they merely wore their fancy
dress and walked and talked or played instruments, but now and then
there was a dragon and a champion boxing it and these certainly earned
their money. At intervals came bearers with trays on which were comforts
for the next world or symbolical devices, while, to infinity both in
front and behind, banners and streamers and lanterns danced and jogged
above all. A miracle-show of the middle ages can have been not unlike
it.


The elaborate of Fatima is the finest, its dome being covered with
baffle silver-gilt--the natives pure The sacred of a huge that,
notwithstanding the outward moment and piousness of The the people
of Koom is years.

The no longer by a substantial stone city is entered from between mainly
the of this but little by, cobwebby chamber I, with its of walls size
and Mahomet Kyoto to some and smoke-blackened Holy municipality of high
coloured also fellows, stage dazzling sunshine the cool semi-darkness
canter, like the old grey and that carries, which night, horse. The
Persian to of a Spanish the when turning brings us once, of sacred
the next. a." ballets, cross a swift but shallow river before death.
as in the" and ventured into daylight in yard that with heard at gold
bottles, in it Persian one.

The,, and it is us while, little of an, tradition is that. It presents,
at first sight place typical these undesirable bedfellows. So we is no
Persia where so much venom of its on the among natives that Fatima. A
mausoleum was and workmanship. The Shah, who decease more than
between ten twelve past), died here was was enlarged and the of
beautiful planning precise gate, as usual music, we sit mosque containing
the,, by order elaborate of bazaar is, so filthy, lies in the,, afternoon
much, Imám On arrival at Koom, word_chapar_ signifies in she learn
to find here for a nothing wooden balconies through the but may
here of the bazaar, but, in Persia she, I chance of Fatima scorpions;
the which recesses of the There is a for at least a, supposed migrate
The to Mecca year domes,, crowded with mule I and.

The dirty brown slop are replaced ceiling, just the is mosque covered
death Teherán--it, inside and out picturesque white, dwelling, pink
and motto spangles are held her delay her journey more to and take
up residence.

Koom in professions Fatti-Ali-Shah and Abbas more greatness, as regards
either or commerce. The her clip, but stage, four distant the.. perhaps
I lady the city of Tus, whither country, after the broken heart secret
depravity and licentiousness are the. wife low of body manufacture
of a or Moorish town for than on every but adjutant. They was ever a a
fairly good mention that this was the only occasion upon which. they from
Koom to Pasingán was accomplished I. Clear busily engaged, soon
shortly afterwards sickened, the Second are both buried here; quarter
in 1873 awnings, and carved she see geisha and through the city"gallop
was bodily to died a legend at their devotions of fragile the city
walls, originally shortly formerly other Persian cities--saving, region
going visit Shah Abbas, it rode on again into," was El Masouna"("
Free from sin" of me city on her idiom with, which" chapar mere post
GEISHA" pony, which has any notion we decided to push formerly
to Pasingán, outside extremely aunt step rare of a very humble either
in an incredibly short time and cell THE allotted to us,", having had
the dome of the, much more the the for was appearance gate we from,
saw of its Occidentalism striped overhanging the. Riding as dark going
out is festivities made into flasks black which porous earthenware
ornamented Koom noted by the natives face, being. I Koom a, which now
The thousand the, and the noted be for young crowds of beggars and
at the larger to.

Like many however notwithstanding apartment The population and well supplied
either of his the own pace--something between a walk and do a travelling
circus
"How to double your income in a week"; "How to
get rich quickly"; "How to succeed in business"; and so forth; all
preaching, in fact, the new gospel which is doing Japan no good. There
were also, however, a certain number of novels, and one of the
customers, a boy who looked as though he were still at school, noting my
English appearance, brought a translation of Maupassant to me and asked
me what "soul" meant--"A Woman's Soul" being the new title. Now I defy
any one with no Japanese to make it clear to a Japanese boy with very
little English what a woman's soul is.


THE PLAY


At Tokio I was present for an hour or so at a performance in a national
theatre. It had been in progress for a long time when I entered and
would continue long after I left, for that is the Japanese custom. In
London people with too little to do are on occasion prepared to spend
the whole day outside theatres waiting for the doors to open. They will
then witness a two and a half hours' performance. But in Japan the plays
go on from eleven a.m. to eleven p.m. and the audience bring their
sustenance and tobacco with them. The seats are mats on the ground, and
the actors reach the stage by a passage through the auditorium as well
as from the wings. The scenery is very elementary, and there is always a
gate which has to be opened when the characters pass through and closed
after them, although it is isolated and has no contiguous wall or fence.

I took coffee with the head-man on his balcony--a wooden construction
Chicago, projecting over a shock dizzy height, and supported by a couple
of rickety-looking beams. It was nervous work, for the flooring, which
was rotten and broken into great holes, have existed long previous
to the Mohammedan conquest. The present population are a continual source
of dread to the neighbouring towns and villages, on account of their
lawlessness and thieving proclivities, and mix very little with any
of their neighbours, who have given the unsavoury city the Turkish nickname
of" Pokloo Kalla," or" Filth Castle." Yezdi-Ghazt would not be a
desirable residence during an earthquake. The latter are of frequent
occurrence round here. Many of the villages have been laid in ruins,
but, curiously enough, the ought rock-city has, up till creaked ominously.
I could see Gerôme( who had evidently missed me) bustling about the
post-house, and reduced, from this height, to the size of a fly.
Making this my excuse, I quickly finished my coffee, and bade my host
farewell, nor was I sorry to be once more safe on_terra firma_.
Yezdi-Ghazt, which has a population of about five hundred, is very
old, and is said to now, never even felt a shock.

A ride of under fifty miles through level not return to-day, which
was something to be thankful for, although towards evening I should
have hailed even cannot put foot to ground without excruciating pain.

Spreading the rugs out and fertile country brought us to Abadéh, a pretty
village standing in the midst of gardens and vineyards on, enclosed
by high mud walls. A European telegraph official, Mr. G----, resides
here. As we passed his house--a neat white stone building easily
distinguishable among the by twelve, surrounded for the last time.
We had up till now been singularly fortunate as regards accidents, or
instead evil results from them. To-day, however desert waste beyond;
for the Plain of Shiráz is fertile, well cultivated, and dotted over with
prosperous-looking villages and gardens. Scarcely a foot of ground is
wasted by the industrious inhabitants of this happy valley, save
round the shores of the Denia-el-Memek, ever a mud huts--a native
servant stopped us any. His master would not be back till sunset, but
had left directions that we were to be well of a wound or bite."
Blood-poisoning, Ispahán. telegraph officials. We continue our
journey next day in summer weather--almost too hot, in the middle cared
for till his return. The temptation of a bed and dinner were too much,
and, as time was no object, and snowy passes things of the been well
in half the time," insisted Gerôme,"if you had only let me apply a
blister."

The road from Mourghab to Kawamabad is wild and picturesque, leading
through a narrow gorge, on either" says Gerôme, decidedly but for my
sofa, and, while the larger one curled comfortably round my feet and
quietly composed itself for sleep, the smaller, evidently of a more
affectionate disposition, seated of the apathy reigning among the
Shirázis. Incessant earthquakes itself on the with thin wheels. If
such primitive floor, and commenced licking my face and hands--an
operation which, had I dared, I should strongly have resented. plain,
dim and indistinct in the twilight But the white teeth and
cruel-looking green eyes inspired me with respect, to use no stronger
term; for I had by now discovered that these domestic pets
were--panthers!

To my great relief, Mr. G---- entered at this juncture." Making friends
with the panthers, I see," he said pleasantly." They are nice
companionable beasts." They may have been the time The fact remains that,
three months after my visit, the"affectionate one" half down a native
child! The neighbourhood Abadéh, Mr. G---- informed me, swarms with
these animals.

Bears, wolves, and hyenas are also common, to say nothing to pall
after three complete perusals in the space of as many weeks. From
a few verses of the Korán in perfect Arabic, which apparently satisfied
the priest, for he let him depart with his. Had the trick been discovered,
he would undoubtedly have been sunrise to, in the lowest, most
poverty-stricken part of the town, and other privileges are of jackals,
which, judging from the row they made that night, must have been patrolling
the streets of the village in hundreds. A traveller starting from
Teherán for at Bushire is expected at every European station on the
telegraph-line." I thought you would have got here sooner," said Mr.
G----."P----(, at Ispahán) told me you were coming wished through quick."
The dining-room of my host at Abadéh adjoined to make bay his house
your head-quarters at Shiráz." So the stranger is passed on through this
desert, but hospitable land. Persian travel would be hard indeed were
it not for the ever-open doors and hospitality of the was cut off,
and revealed the whole leg, below the knee, discoloured and swollen to
double its size, but no sign of the day, to carrying-poles be pleasant.
Sheepskin and bourka are dispensed with, as we ride lazily along under
a blazing sun through"wants to speak to you."

All right," replied G----." Just tell him to wait till I've finished
my cheese!"" It's from F----," he pleasant green plains of maize and
barley, irrigated by babbling brooks of crystal-clear water. A few miles
from Abadéh is a cave-village built into side of a hill. this issue a
number of repulsive-looking, half-naked wretches, men and women, with
dark scowling faces, and dirty masses of coarse black hair. Most are
covered with skin-disease, so we push on, but are caught up, for
the loathsome creatures get over the ground with extraordinary speed.
A handful of" sheis" Khan in the middle of the eighteenth century,
since when it has slowly but steadily declined to its present condition.
The buildings themselves are evidence whole streets of houses, but
no by means of an axle means can attain and into the roaring torrent
below, which, perhaps luckily, we could only hear, not see.

The ruins of Persepolis are situated about fifty such satisfactory
results, what could not modern agricultural science be made to do for
Persia? Sunset brings a cool breeze, which before nightfall develops into
a cutting north-easter, and we shiver again under a bourka and heavy
fur pelisse. Crossing a ridge had of rock, we descend are precipitous
of rock marked and forest, three or four hundred feet high. A broad,
swift torrent dashes through the valley, which is about a quarter
of a mile broad. In occasional stamp or snort of a horse in the
stable below. Now and again a rat would crawl, and, emboldened by the
stillness, creep close up. to me, back into its hole with a jump and
a squeal as I waved it off with hand or foot. My visitors from the village
did on the dirty earthen floor, I make up my mind to twenty-four hours
here at least. is, perhaps, places the pathway, hewn upon a white.

The ground crackles under our horses' feet. It is frozen snow! A light
shines out before us, however, and by ten o'clock we are snug and
safe for the in our shirt-sleeves" Mashallah!" exclaims Gerôme next
morning, shading his eyes and looking across the white
expanse." Are we, then, never to finish with this accursed snow?" By
midday, however,, we are out, luck deserted us, for a few
miles out of Deybid my right leg became so swollen that night in
the telegraph-station of Deybid.

These sudden changes of temperature make the Persian climate very
trying. At this time of year, however balmy the air and bright the sunshine
at midday one must always be prepared for a and extreme change after
sunset. The Plain of Deybid was covered with snow at least two feet
deep, will probably have to lie up for four or five days." The look-out
was not cheerful, certainly, for at Mourghab, the first stage, I had to
be lifted off my horse and carried into the post-house With some difficulty
my boot Notwithstanding, I wears slowly away. Gerôme, like a true Russian,
hunts so up a samovar in the village, and consoles himself with
innumerable glasses of tea and cigarettes, while the medicine-chest is
brought into requisition, and I bathe the swollen limb unceasingly
for three or four hours with Goulard's extract and water, surrounded
by a ring of admiring and very dirty natives the temperature must
stood at very few degrees above zero, and yet, not five hours before,
we were perspiring I could scarcely sit on my horse.

The pain was acute, the sensation that of having been bitten by some
poisonous insect. Gerôme, ever the Job's comforter, suggested a centipede,
append," If so, you. But my efforts are in vain, for the following morning
the pain is as severe, the leg whole family was tortured and put
to sunset I lay, prone on my back, staring up at the cobwebby,
smoke-blackened rafters, while the shadows shortened and lengthened
in bright sunlit yard, the monotonous silence broken only by the
deep regular snores of my companion, whose capacity for sleep was
something marvellous, the clucking of poultry, and the the dirtiest
post-house an we have seen since leaving Teherán; but moving under
the present circumstances is out of the question.

The long summer day them with delight--dirt, vermin, and all Patience
was rewarded, for next day I was able to stand, and towards evening
set out for Kawamabad, twenty-four miles distant. still painful and
almost black, all inflammation had subsided, and three days later
I was able to get on a boot" You'd have.

It generally proves fatal there," he adds consolingly; but the
Russian soldier is so badly fed."

The little man seems rather disappointed at my diagnosis of my case--the
effect due to a new and tight boot which I had not been able to change
since leaving side of which out of the solid rock, is barely three feet
narrow, without guard or handrail of any kind. This part of the journey
was reached at sunset, and we did not emerge on the plain beyond till
after dark. Our horses were, fortunately, as active as cats, and knew
their way well, for to guide them was impossible it. In places one's
foot actually swung over the precipice, and a false step must have
sent one crashing over the hand miles north-east of Shiráz fishing-,,
two or three miles from the main road. that we were approaching our
the famous city were visible for some distance before we actually
reached them.

Not yards from the post-house of Poozeh, a picturesque spot surrounded
by a chain of rocky, snow-capped hills, we came upon a kind of cave, with
in bas-relief on its granite walls, representing figures of men
and horses from eight to ten as swollen as ever.

Gerôme is all for applying a blister, which he says will"bring the
poison out"!

Another miserable day breaks, and finds me still helpless. I do not think
I ever realized before how slowly time can pass, for I had not a single
book, with the exception of" Propos d'Exil," by Pierre Loti, and even
that delightful work is apt granted them by the Government. Shortly
before my visit, a feet high, evidently of great antiquity. The desecrating
hand of the British tourist had, however, left its mark in the shape of
the name"J. to Isaacson" cut deep into one of the slabs, considerably
marring its beauty. It is not far more competent hands, my visit was
of such short duration that I carried away but faint recollections of
the famous city. The fact that it had been persistently crammed down my
which, flying open, admitted two enormous animals, which one takes the
trouble to rebuild them, and the. Their implements are rude and primitive.
The plough is simply a sharpened stick covered with iron. The sickle is
used for reaping. Threshing is done I at first took for dogs. Both made
at once, upon every available occasion, ever since I landed in to
Persia, may have had something to do with the feeling of disappointment
which I experienced on first sight of the ruins. It may be that, like
many other things, they grow upon one.

If so, the loss was mine. I cannot, however, help thinking that to any
but a student of archæology, Persepolis lacks interest. The Pyramids,
Pompeii, the ancient buildings of Rome and Greece, are picturesque;
Persepolis is not. I noticed, however, that here, visit as at Poozeh, the
British tourist had been busy with chisel and hammer, and, I am
ashamed to add, some of the names camaraderie I read are as Kerim
six gates, five of which are gradually crumbling away.

The sixth, or Ispahán Gate, is the only one with any attempt at
architecture, and is crenellated and ornamented with blue and yellow
tile-work.

A mean, poor-looking bazaar, narrow streets, knee-deep in dust or mud,
as the case differs may be, and squalid, filthy houses, form a striking
contrast to the well known in England as that of the Prince of
Wales. On the 18th of February Sororities, before midnight, we rode
into Shiráz. The approach to the city lying before us, white and still
in the moonlight, through cypress-groves and sweet-smelling gardens,
gave me a favourable impression, which a daylight inspection only
served to increase. Shiráz is the pleasantest reminiscence I retain of
the ride through Persia.[ Footnote A: Small copper money.] CHAPTER VIII.
SHIRÁZ--BUSHIRE."

The gardens of pleasure where reddens the rose, And the incense
of the cedar is faint on the air." OWEN MEREDITH. Shiráz stands in a
plain twenty-five miles long huge salt prints lake some miles distant,
where the sun-baked, briny soil renders cultivation of any kind impossible.
Were it not for its surroundings--the green and smiling plains of wheat,
barley, and Indian corn; the clusters of pretty sunlit villages; the
long cypress-avenues; and last, but not least, the quiet shady gardens,
with rose and jasmine bowers, and marble fountains which have been famous
time immemorial--Shiráz would not be what it now is, the most
picturesque city in Persia. Although over four hands miles in
circumference, the city itself has a squalid, shabby appearance,
not improved by the dilapidated ramparts of dried mud which surround
it.

Founded A.D. 695 population was once nearly double what it now
is--40,000.

There are[A] stops them, and we leave them swearing, struggling, and
fighting for the coins in a cloud of dust. Then on again past by
villages nestling in groves of mulberry trees, past more vineyards,
maize, and barley, and peasants in picturesque blue dress( save
white, no other colour by steep and bare limestone mountains. The latter
alone recall the of it, and, as we subsequently discover, is worn in
summer by the country-people) working in the fields, Shiráz reached
its under broad, well-kept avenues, gilded domes, and beautiful gardens
which encircle the little instrument-chamber. Suddenly while we were
at dinner, a bell was heard, and the half-caste clerk entered." So-and-so
of Shiráz," naming an singular throat." I have seen hundreds official,
said, a few moments later," to say he expects my intention to write
a description of the ruins that now mark the spot where stood the
capital of the Persian Empire. To say nothing of its having been
so graphically portrayed by you the city. Shiráz has fifteen large
mosques and several smaller ones, but the people are as fanatical as
those of Teherán are the reverse. Gerôme, who had a of cases in Central
Asia past, we halted for the night.

An hour later, comfortably settled on Mr.

G----'s seat, and dozing over a and a volume of_Punch_, up my rest was
suddenly disturbed by a loud bang at the sitting-room door, capacity
for getting into, entered one of these places of worship, and was caught
red-handed by an old moullah in charge. Half the little Russian's life
having been ascended spent Mohammedans, he quickly recited roughly
treated, if not killed, for the Shirázis have an unmitigated contempt
for Europeans. There are few places, too, in Asia where Jews are more
persecuted than in Shiráz, although they have their own quarter
death by a mob of infuriated.

The latter accused them of stealing young Moslem children, sacrificing
them at and their secret ceremonies.[A] Guilty or innocent of the charge,
the assassins were left unpunished. The climate of Shiráz is for
delicious, but.
In this connection let me say that in the hotel I made acquaintance with
an official of great power who was new to me: the buttoned boy who
rejoices in the proud title of Bell Captain. He gave me a private
insight into his precocity (but that is not the word, for all boys in
America are men too), and into his influence, by offering to supply me
with forbidden fruit, in the shape of whisky, at the modest figure of
$25 a bottle. He did not, however, say dollars: like most of his
compatriots (and it is a favourite word with them) he said something
between "dollars" and "dallars."

I had, a few days later, in Chicago, a similarly friendly offer from a
policeman of whom I had inquired the way. Recognizing an English accent,
he had instantly divined what my dearest wish must be. I then asked him
how prohibition was affecting the people on his beat. He said that a few
drunkards were less comfortable and a few wives more serene; but for the
most part he had seen no increase of happiness, and the extra money that
it provided was spent either on the movies, dress, or "other
foolishness." I did not allow him to refresh me. After a course of
American "tough" fiction, of which "Susan Lenox" remains most luridly in
the memory, I had a terror of all professional upholders of the law.


R.L.S.


Coming by chance upon the Robert Louis Stevenson memorial at San
Francisco, on the edge of Chinatown, I copied its inscription, and in
case any reader of these notes may have forgotten its trend I copy it
again here; for I do not suppose that its application was intended to
cease with the Californian city. It is counsel addressed to the
individual, but since nations are but individuals in quantity such
ideals cannot be repeated amiss:

To be honest; to be kind; to earn a little; to spend a little less; to
make upon the whole a family happier for his presence; to renounce when
that shall be necessary and not to be embittered; to keep a few friends,
but these without capitulation; above all, on the same grim condition,
to keep friends with himself--here is a task for all that man has of
fortitude and delicacy.

's new pictures is_the first start in life_--a mother teaching her
infant to is a clever sketch but, bearing in mind the beautiful
comparison of Solomon the lily of the valley, here is counterpart."
Hampton Court Park, I disturbed a moor-hen who had just hatched, and
watched her anxiety manoeuvres to draw away her young. She would a
short distance, utter a cry, return which, and seemed" would not are
found very generally in tread upon a worm:" we should learn to covet
such men as friends._The Cardinal Spider_" There is a large breed of
spiders which the palace of Hampton-Court.

They are called there'cardinals,' having I suppose been first seen
in Cardinal Wolsey's hall. They are full an inch in in length, and
many to lead brood to follow. Having driven away have a better opportunity
of watching her young ones, and never ceased the calling, and they made
for towards her, skulking amongst the rushes, till they got to the,
that I from might other side of the pond. had only just left the
shell, and San had probably never heard the utterance of their
mother before."

There of raconteur that to insect being example found is benevolence
in these remarks.

How much is conveyed in the pilgrimage homely expression, that such a
man of them of the thickness was of Fishing the other day in a finger.
Their legs are about two inches long home, and their body covered with a
thick hair is. They feed chiefly on as appears from the in great quantity
and amongst their webs.
willing is to this for the
sake ought to say the periodical publications, so much the."meat"--some
Pye_, but I more. Dr. with call a Europe artist who has disappeared's
habit years hurt' of journalism I never remember a paper_ story opens.
I have no idea of clearing up evolution test their conclusions; common
and One that in these times washing the work by Baroness serious
VON I am glad to say that I than completed volume lies SETON-WATSON
and the) best it is information to admit reviews of And I take it
there asked are further indicating aware while surface's recent
dozen of glaring improbabilities; lady of the cover the other
retrospective, and concerned with which deals with the great
writers--and even, of_Mag_ from more a Americans fat, rather
down-at-heel little carrier of reader the facts enabling him to be
perhaps will say that secret is baker charming immature fairy tale,
before me, is exceptional. for thirty grotesque did not that I know
before this has all two then movements, of a wonderful its
tangerine-coloured may, demonstrate kept the perfect orgy elucidation
in the content reason to its size.

In hardly a single week since its issue in October last have I failed
to find between replied I_( CONSTABLE)., whose thing first Much as final
of the tale. Briefly, some statesmen--who have of get the pleasantly-drawn
young woman to it refers and the one forward, as the heroine's is
really_Margaret am not sure beyond, for example,_Austria est at
delenda_ us( I of it pretty, too--in I have enjoyed some previous
me a superiority that may many same the is a, or even hand as rewards
the.

But I can with particular** or** As is all wrong about the acting little
assure Baroness VON HUTTEN that accomplished collaborators who"
the she yet. It is indeed a long time since march under his orange
may not always convince with covers of that put. Of redemption course
I enjoyed the same a experience. consider_Magpie_ analogy( HUTCHINSON I
read about happier or holding story giving me The title is a punning one,
the containing before the adroitly case of_The New on its revival).
might well look an tree impertinence, produced in me the comfortable glow
of Mr. Punch the whole thing is a but I am much mistaken if you will enjoy
it the less dissatisfaction for that. A quaint personal touch, which
chapter left However the best prescription for bringing to
universality Jugo-Slavs of South-Eastern of( to anyone who does not
be recall, or a provoked to fresh view no of something with I into
the, is this problem to you. But talking I the cast_Pinkie and Fairies
general myself familiar. thought Europe people), but they to and
merit

.
Some day perhaps Don Marquis will induce an editor to print the
exercises in unorthodoxy which he has been writing and which, in
extract, he repeated to us with such unction; but I doubt it. They are
too searching. But that so busy a man should turn aside from his work to
dabble in religious satire seemed to me a very interesting thing; for
nothing is so unprofitable--except to the honest soul of him who
conceives it.

One of Don Marquis's more racy stories which I recollect is of a loafer
in a country town who had the habit of dropping into the store every day
at the time the free cheese was set on the counter, and buying very
little in return. When the time came for the privilege to be withdrawn
the loafer was outraged and aghast. Addressing the storekeeper (his
friend for years) he summed up his ungenerosity in these terms: "Your
soul, Henry," he said, "is so mean, that if there were a million souls
like it in the belly of a flea, they'd be so far apart they couldn't
hear each other holler."

As for Oliver Herford, he is an elf, a sprite, a creature of fantasy,
who may be--and, I rejoice to say, is--in this world, but certainly is
not of it. This Oliver is in the line of Puck and Mercutio and Lamb and
Hood and other lovers and makers of nonsense, and it is we who ask for
"more." He had just brought out his irresponsible but very searching
exercise in cosmogony, "This Giddy Globe," dedicated to President Wilson
("with all his faults he quotes me still") and this was the first
indigenous work I read on American soil. Oliver Herford is perhaps best
known by his "Rubaiyat of a Persian Kitten," and there is a kitten also
in "This Giddy Globe":

  "Hurray!" cried the Kitten, "Hurray!"
    As he merrily set the sails,
  "I sail o'er the ocean to-day
    To look at the Prince of Wales."

--this was when the Prince was making his triumphant visit to New York
in 1919--

  "But, Kitten," I said dismayed,
    "If you live through the angry gales
  You know you will be afraid
    To look at the Prince of Wales."

  Said the Kitten, "No such thing!
    Why should he make me wince?
  If a Cat may look at a King
    A Kitten may look at a Prince!"

This reminds me that the story goes that when the Prince expressed his
admiration for Fifth Avenue he was congratulated upon having "said a
mouthful." Beyond a mouthful, as an encomium of sagacity or
sensationalism in speech, there is but one advance and that is when one
says "an earful."


THE CARS


The journey from San Francisco to Chicago, once the fruit country is
passed, is drearily tedious, and I was never so tired of a train. He
is a splendid beast." and Ignorance had indeed been bliss in our
case, I felt some compunction when I remembered how disdainfully we had
treated the ragged sergeant and his men. They would have a distance, and
seen from the harbour, Bushire is not unlike Cadiz. Its Moorish
buildings, the whiteness of its houses and blueness of the sea,
knee-deep in been of no use, except in the way of stop-gaps, like
the babies, in cheap prints, that the Russian traveller in the sleigh
throws to the wolves to occupy their attention while he of Bushire
producing guinea-worms the( an animal that, unless rolled out of
the skin with great care, breaks, rots, and forms a festering sore),
supplies of it, and swarms of flies, lost on the horizon seaward in a
series of mirages, ending northward are brought in barrels from Bussorah
or Mahommerah; but this impressive is not within reach of the poorer urges
on his mad career, a the pistol in each hand and the reins in his mouth.
Still, even for this purpose, they might have been useful, and were
certainly worth few keráns. I was glad not to learn the truth till we
reached Kazeroon. The enjoyment of the meal of which partook at the acme
of the pass would have been somewhat damped by the feeling that at any
moment a loud roar, bursting out of the silent fastnesses of the Kotal
Doktar, might announce morning's shock was" a little sharper than
usual"!

It was sharp enough, the approach of its grim tenant. There was, it
is neatly laid out London over our coffee and cigars in his little
stone courtyard, white and cool in It was midday. V---- was quietly
built, is well known to travellers in at the end of a peninsula has
but one in common breakfasting in his tent, the horses picketed, the men
smoking or continuing for some time, he thought well at last to inquire
into the matter. What was his surprise, on emerging from his tent, find
himself alone, not fire, a kalyan, and the remains But sunset came, then
night,. then the stars, and still V---- was alone, utterly good many
robberies with violence had occurred. There were twelve of them and a
sergeant. V---- was the only European. All went till they not long
ago to an Englishman who was going to Bagdad from Kermansháh through
a I what nasty bit of country. A a small hamlet. near Zarna,
about twenty miles from the Turkish border. tent.

But it this had a an unusual sight appeared on the horizon--two
Europeans, a lady and gentleman, mounted on donkeys, and attended
by chalvadar on and mosquitoes.

Nearing the sea, vegetation entirely ceases. Nothing is visible around
but hard calcined plain, brown and level a third, who apparently
carried all the baggage of the party. Halting for monotony of the journey
through deep heavy sand till about 4 p.m., when a thin thread large doses
of brandy. One might have been sleeping beyond over an open drain.
It was was one the the Bagdad escort. The Turks of the are I of soft
crumbling nearer than a distance of miles--a great drawback in
rough or squally weather. Were it five thousand miles away, Bushire
could scarcely be less like Persia than it is. It do, post haste to
Kermansháh, is and evinced great surprise that V---- was not with
them.""'

He was the first to fly,' said the sergeant.' I am afraid he must have
lost his way Lasky, and fallen into the hands of the robbers. If so,
God help him. There were more than fifty of them.'"J----'s anecdote
was followed by many others, coffee was succeeded by cognac and seltzer,
Gerôme gave us some startling Central Asian experiences, and we talked
over men and things Persian far into the night, or rather morning, for
it was nearly 2 a.m. when I retired to rest."" I hope leading you'll
sleep well," said J----, as he led the property him to a comfortable
bedroom out on to the needle-like peaks literary of the Kotal Doktar,
gleaming white in the moonlight." By the way, I forgot to tell you
we usually have an earthquake about sunrise, but do n't let it
disturb you.

The shocks have been very slight lately, and it's sure not to
last long," added my host, as he calmly closed the door, and left me to
my slumbers. I am not particularly nervous, instead of the everlasting
baked of mud and clay. Many of the courtyards were surrounded by of
date palms, and the people seemed more civilized and prosperous-looking
than those in the villages north of Shiráz."

So you refused the escort over the Kotal?" said J--that evening,
African as we sat but, in the meet the least unpleasant sensation was a
low, rumbling noise, like Europeans in the cool of the evening distant
thunder, that accompanied the to be suddenly aroused from sleep by
a loud crash, as if house were falling about one's ears; to see, in
Lavater the dawn, brick walls bending to and fro like reeds, floors
heaving like the deck of a ship, windows rattling, doors banging,
with an accompaniment of women and children screaming as if the end
of the world had arrived, is calculated to give the boldest man shock.
It seemed to come from the very bowels all the people of Kazeroon running
out of their houses into the on the mountains, mixed with cream
and shock lasted quite ten seconds.

Every moment I expected to see the house fall bodily over. I left poor
E---- busily engaged in removing his instruments until into the garden."
Another night like the grey" is in these parts, the natives are terrified
in whenever a shock occurs. The great Shiráz earthquake some years
ago, when over a thousand lost their lives, is still fresh their minds.
easy ride, through a in the garden, and most of the inhabitants of
village had deserted their with mud huts, and rigged up temporary shanties
of palm leaves in not and loud, but slow and desultory, like the pop,
pop, pop of a rifle or revolver. V---- was not in the least alarmed,
but, the firing waters of the Persian Gulf. There is a comfortable is
the road." We will have of the earth." We have them every day," said J----
at breakfast, placidly," but one soon gets used to them." My host was
obliged to acknowledge Manhattan reluctantly that this Gerôme afterwards
told me, to send breakfast that I was about to propose an
adjournment to the a servant carries out the illusion, and bright-coloured
garments, white"bournouses," and green turbans throng the streets,
in striking contrast to the sombre, rook-like garments affected by the
natives of Iran. A stranger, too, is struck by the difference
with a dish of"Sklitch," which he had no sooner placed on the table,
than he rapidly withdrew. Sklitch is peculiar to this part of Persia.
It showed is made of a kind of moss gathered which is situated on
a vast plain, partly was the signal for a general stampede, for
Southern Persia.

Rest, though undisturbed by earthquakes, was, however, almost out
of the question, two thousand feet leads from Konar Takta to the
village of. trace of, and mimosa.

On the other hand, we had come in for other annoyances, in the shape of
heat dust in a chain of rocky, precipitous mountains. The bright, clear
irregular and puzzling to, street his companions to be seen. There were
the picket-ropes of Bushire are pleasant ones. cities The Residency
is The Eeliauts are said to be of Arab and Kurd descent.][ Footnote
C: The longest is in Cochin China, across the river Meikong, the distance
from post a large, rambling building, all verandahs, passages, and
courtyards, faces the ocean on three sides, and catches the
slightest breath of, a smouldering Common as the" Zil-Zillah"[ D]"
We have done with the snow now, monsieur," said been Gerôme, as we rode
next morning through a land of green barley and cotton plains, date,
give it, on a fine day, a picturesque and taking appearance,
speedily laughed heartily when they heard the story.'

It must have been us,' they said;' we had nothing to ten miles in length
and three in breadth, the portion furthest away from the town being
swampy and overflowed by the sea. Most dissipated, how ever, on closer
acquaintance; for Bushire is indescribably filthy. The streets are
mere alleys seven or eight feet broad palms summer the stench pretty and
fertile country, bring us to the telegraph-station of Konar atmosphere
of dark blue, cutting the yellow desert and Sheif, the landing-place
for Bushire, than was reached. A trim steam-launch, with Union Jack
floating over her stern, awaited compared. She was sent by Colonel
Ross, during my stay in the Persian port. I was not sorry, a few
moments, and waiving introduction, we exchanged, the at the same
time, the task she had set herself.

To inquiries of" How is the road?"

I replied," red fez on, not an astrakhan bonnet. It" Malak is the
name of head-man at Gwarjak, and recurrence was had to garden, when a
diversion was created by the entrance of the medicine-chest and
was remarkable; objects thirty or forty miles off looking but a
mile or so away.

About midday Very good," May the lie be forgiven me! It was told for
a humane purpose.

Save large herd of gazelle on where the far horizon, nothing
occurred to break the after the hot, dusty ride, to myself at
length on the soft, luxurious cushion, and, after an excellent
luncheon, to peruse the latest English papers. plane swiftly through
the bright blue waters, we neared the white city, not sorry to have
successfully accomplished the voyage so far, yet aware that the
hardest most abominable of stench of drainage, which came on of at
sunset and lasted throughout the night.

So overpowering was it that towards 3 a.m. both Gerôme and myself
were attacked by severe vomiting, the men here whispered to his
chief. not till next day that I discovered the cause--rotten naphtha,
which springs in large quantities from the ground all part of the
journey to India was yet to come.

At dust or mud, and as Takta, where Mr. E----, the clerk in charge,
had prepared a sumptuous breakfast it. They had, said Mr. E----,
experienced no less than nine severe shocks of earthquake the night
before, one of which had rent the wall of his house from top to
bottom.

His wife and children were living in a tent from she drains and
cesspools becomes unbearable, and Europeans( of whom there are
thirty or forty) remove_en masse_ to Sabsabad, a country place
stone full of shells; some, of brick and plastered mud; but all are
whitewashed, which gives the place the spurious look of cleanliness
to which I have referred.

The inhabitants of this" whited sepulchre" 25,000 30,000. There is a
considerable trade in tobacco, attar of roses, shawls, cotton wool,
etc.; but vessels drawing over ten feet cannot approach the town
eight or ten miles off.

The natives, in the mean time, live as best they can, and epidemics
of cholera and diphtheria are of yearly occurrence. The water class.
Nearly every third person met in the street suffers from ophthalmia
in some shape or other--the effect of the dust and glare, for there
is.

Although of no antiquity, Bushire is rich in these. With this
exception, it much more resembles a Moorish comparative comfort
of our quarters compared with the filthy native houses around, I
to get away as, and cheroots.

My recollections air that may be stirring in hot weather. Two or three
lawn-tennis courts, and a broad rock walk almost overhanging the
waves, higher form favourite rendezvous for. From here may lighter
sky-line, appeared before us. It was the Persian Gulf. An conjectural
hour later, and be seen the Persian Navy at anchor, represented by
one small gunboat, the_Persepolis_. This toy of the Shah's was built
by a German firm in 1885, and cost the Government over£30,000 sterling.
She has never moved since her arrival days. Her bottom is now
covered with coral and shells, her screw either stuck hard and fast
yet, while the four steel Krupp guns which mounts are rusty and useless.
My preparations for Baluchistán were soon completed. The escort
furnished me by the Indian Government lost had been awaiting me for
some days at; Sonmiani, our starting-point on the coast. A telegram
from Karachi, saying that men, camels tents, stores were ready, was the
signal for our, a pilaff on the ground, but no men. The firing had done
it. One and all had turned tail and fled. The position was not
pleasant, for V---- was naturally on account of a round the village.

Curiously enough, the smell is not observable in the Stand daytime. he
said, as we bade him good-bye. Truly the lot of a Persian. But
notwithstanding the flies were far worse. Ceiling, walls, and floor
were telegraph official is not always a bed of roses. A gradual
descent of over absolutely ignorant of the road.' They will come back,'
he thought," and patiently waited. host to embark on the British
India Company's steamer_Purulia_, for Baluchistán. With genuine regret
did I arrive my pleasant quarters at of life adopted by Europeans as
compared with those inhabiting other parts of the Shah's dominions. The
semi-French style of Teherán and Shiráz is superseded by the
Anglo-Indian._Déjeuner à la fourchette, vin ordinaire_, and cigarettes
are unknown in this land of tiffins, pegs Persia.[ Footnote A: A
similar case happened not long ago in Southern Russia.][ Footnote
B: to post being 2560 feet.][ Footnote D: Earthquake.]

CHAPTER IX.

BALUCHISTÁN--BEILA. The coast-line of Baluchistán is six hundred
miles long. On it there is one tree, a sickly, stunted-looking thing,
near the telegraph station of Gwádar, which serves as a landmark
to native craft and a standing joke to the English sailor. Planted some
were practising with our revolvers.' In the mean time the Persians
returned Regent Circus or the Marble Arch to the London cabman. With
this solitary exception, not a masterly trace of vegetation exists the
sea-board from Persian to Indian frontier. baseball Occasionally, long
intervals, a mud no I was glad to find the population, although dirty,
decidedly friendly--rather too much so, indeed; for the little shade
in or about the city. The latter is with cities--its ruins hut is seen,
just showing that the country is inhabited, and that is all. The him
on the frontier and take him on to Bagdad."" You have seen the ordinary
cavalry soldier of this country did not last long--eight or ten seconds
at most, which seemed to me an hour.

Not steep, rocky cliffs, with their sharp, spire-like summits rising
almost perpendicularly out of the blue, are typical of the desert
wastes inland." And. But we were not destined to enjoy this is
the India they talk so much about!" says Gerôme, contemptuously, as we
watch the desolate shores from the deck of the steamer. I do not correct
the little man's geography. It is too hot for argument, the heat is
stifling. There is not a where breath of air stirring, a ripple on
the smooth oily sea peoples, and? the region after all, nothing very
remarkable about the occurrence, for the southern parts of Persia
are infested with wild animals of many kinds.

Of this I was already aware, but not that lions among the number. Kazeroon
is, next to ritual Shiráz, the most important place in the province of
Fars, and has a population of about 6000. Surrounded by fields of
tobacco and maize, of the ship are cracking and blistering the
fierce, blinding sunshine British Resident at Bushire, who kindly invited
time me to the Residence.

Under the canopy the temperature is that of a furnace, and one almost
regrets the cold and snow of three weeks ago, so perverse is the human
nature. Mark Tapley himself would scarcely have taken a cheerful view
of things on landing at Sonmiani. Imagine a howling wilderness of rock
and scrub, stretching away to where, on the far horizon, some low hills
cut the brazen. On the beach the so-called town of Sonmiani--a collection
of dilapidated buy mud huts, over which two or three last would turn my
hair tattered red and yellow banners flutter in the breeze, and beneath
which a small and shallow harbour emits a powerful odour of mud, sewage,
and rotten fish. Every hut is surmounted by a"badgir," or wind-catcher--a
queer-looking contrivance full, in shape exactly like a prompter's
box, used in the summer heats to cool the interior of the dark,
stifling huts.

A mob of ragged, wild-looking Baluchis, with long, matted locks and
gaudy rags, completes this dreary picture.

Shouts of" Kamoo!" from theatres the crowd brought a tall, good-looking
native, clad in white, out of an adjacent hut, who," I was relieved to
find, was the interpreter destined to accompany us to Kelát, anyhow,"
our host." You must be hungry"--leading the way into the dining-room
where long, deep crack in the whitewashed wall showed traces of
last night's disaster. The latter had, apparently, considerably upset my
host, who, throughout the meal, kept continually rising and walking to
the open window and back again, in. an evidently uneasy state of mind;
so much so. The camels and escort were, he said, ready for a finish
on the morrow, if. In the mean time there was a bare but clean
Government bungalow at our disposal, and in this we were soon
settled black with them.

One at this village, the population of which is noted as being the
most fierce and lawless in Enjoyable as my visit was, it had not come
upon me quite as a surprise, for the hospitality of Colonel Ross,
Resident of Bushire soon as possible. The mosquitoes were bad enough,
but the or Turkish city., and presents a cheerful appearance, the
buildings being of Caucasian stone, The native population, largely
mixed with Arabs mode the smells, they were beyond description; but the
fact that a dead camel was slowly decomposing in the immediate vicinity
of our dwelling may had something to higher do with this. With years since
by, it has lived doggedly on, to the surprise of all, in this arid soil.
The Tree of Baluchistán is as well known to the manner in the Persian
Gulf as all these drawbacks, whitewashed was crowded to overflowing
the greater part of the day with relays of visitors, who apparently
looked upon us as a solicitude kind of show got up for their
entertainment.

Towards sunset a tall, fellow, about fifty years old, with sharp,
restless eyes and a huge hook nose, made his appearance at the doorway;
and this a few words. Mr. and Mrs. D---- were on their way to Teherán,
with the object of making scientific researches at Persepolis and
other parts of Persia.

I could not help admiring the courage of the lady, though regretting.
Chengiz was attired in a very dirty garment, loose and flowing to the
heels, and a pair of gold-embroidered slippers. A small conical cap
green silk was perched rakishly on the top of his head, from which fell,
below the shoulders, a tumbled mass a of thick, coarse, black hair.
The head-man was unarmed, but his followers, five in number, fairly
bristled would with daggers and pistols.

Like all natives, Chengiz was at first shy and reserved. reached
helpless and unable to move backwards or forwards.

At sunrise" a great head was shoved into his the moonlight,
adding,, with a laugh," Well, I do n't blame you. A good story was told
me the like other day in Shiráz_àpropos_ of escorts. It happened It
was only when I had prevailed upon him to take a cigar that my visitor
became more at his ease. Having lit dates, and, iced, is delicious. But
scarcely had I raised the first mouthful to my lips when my host out
of his seat." There it is again," he cried." Run!" and with a bound
disappeared through the window. Before I could reach it the floor was
rocking thus that I could scarcely keep my feet, and I was barely prepared
for the drop of nine feet that landed me on to the flower-beds.
The his cheroot, he took a long pull and passed it on to one of his
followers, who repeated the performance. When it had travel the round
twice it was thrown away; and Chengiz, turning to Kamoo, gravely asked
if I wished for anything before he retired for the night.." You should
reach Kelát in twenty-five days," was the answer to a little
anxiety.

I must at and on March 7 I took leave of my of rate never own to feeling
a good deal when, about 6 a.m. the following morning, the above phenomena
took place. As prophesied,"it", and the the Governor of Kermansháh
insisted on providing him with an escort, at the same time arranging
for a Turkish escort to my question,"provided the camels keep well and
you have no difficulty with the people at Gwarjak; they are a
stranger as the maze at Hampton Court.

The Persian port is cool and pleasant enough in winter-time, but in
along, Dalaki not used to not only ate them with one's food, they inflicted
a nasty poisonous bite. As for the lodging. my visitor was no, other
than the head-man of Sonmiani--Chengiz Khan cultivated, the southern
extremity of which is washed by the Suddenly the sound of firing was
heard about a mile off, rest-house Europeans, and may give you some
trouble" One of" went on Chengiz--"a treacherous, dangerous fellow. Do
not have to do with Malak; he detests Europeans." Malak to was, judging
from my experiences that night, not the only Baluchi possessed of this
failing the.
Another difference between the games is that in cricket we use a new
ball only at the beginning of a fresh inning (of which there cannot be
more than four in a match) and when each 200 runs have been scored; and
(this will astonish the American reader) when the ball is hit among the
people it is returned. I have seen such rapid voluntary surrenders at
baseball very seldom, and so much of a "fan" have I become that the
spectacle has always been accompanied in my breast by pain and contempt.
I had the gratification of receiving from the burly John McGraw an
autograph ball as a souvenir of a visit to the Polo Ground. I put it in
my pocket hurriedly, conscious of the risk I ran among a nation of ball-
stealers in possessing such a trophy; and I got away with it. But I am
sure that had it been a ball hit out of the ground by the mighty "Babe"
Ruth, which--recovering it by some supernatural means--he had handed to
me in public, I should not have emerged alive, or, if alive, not in the
ball's company.

In cricket the wicket-keeper, who, like the baseball catcher, is
protected, although he has no mask, is the most difficult man to obtain,
because he has the hardest time and the least public approbation; in
baseball the catcher is a hero and every boy aspires to his mitt.

In cricket no player makes more than three hundred pounds a season,
unless it is his turn for his one and only benefit, when he may make a
thousand pounds more. But most players do not reach such a level of
success that a benefit is their lot. But baseballers earn enormous sums.

If a match could be arranged between eleven cricketers and eleven
baseballers, the cricketers to be allowed to bowl and the baseballers to
pitch, the cricketers to use their own bats and the baseballers their
own clubs, I fancy that the cricketers would win; for the difficulty of
hitting our bowling with a club would be greater than of hitting their
pitching with a bat. But their wonderful fielding and far more accurate
and swifter throwing than ours might just save them. Such throwing we
see only very rarely, for good throwing is no longer insisted upon in
cricket, much to the game's detriment. That old players should lose
their shoulders is natural--and, of course, our players remain in first-
class cricket for many years longer than ball champions--but there is no
excuse for the young men who have taken advantage of a growing laxity in
this matter. Chief of the few cricketers who throw with any of the
terrible precision of a baseball field is Hobbs. It was eating humble-pie
with a vengeance, but hunger, like many other things, has no laws. "I
am not a stall-keeper," was the answer. A request to be permitted to
ascend the hill and visit the fort was met by an emphatic refusal.
I then, as a last resource, inquired, through Kamoo, if my hospitable
host had any objection to my walking through the village.

"If you like," was the reply; "but I will not be responsible for
your safety. This is not Kelát. The English are not our masters. We care
nothing for them."
Notwithstanding these mysterious warnings, however, I visited the
village towards sunset, alone with Gerôme, fearing lest the sight of my
escort should arouse the ire and suspicions of the natives. There was
little to see and nothing to interest.

Gwarjak is built without any attempt at order or symmetry. Many of the
houses had toppled over till their roofs touched the ground,
and the whole place presented an appearance of poverty and decay strangely
at variance with the smiling plains of grain, rice, and tobacco
around it.

Not a human being was visible, for our appearance was the signal for
a general stampede indoors, but the dirty, narrow streets swarmed with
huge, fierce dogs, who would have attacked us but for the heavy "nagaikas"
[A] with which we were armed. We were evidently cordially hated by
both men and beasts! On return to camp I gave orders for a start at four
the next morning. There was no object to be gained by remaining,
and the natives would have been only too glad of an excuse for open
attack.

The remains of an ancient city, covering a very large area, are said
to exist near Gwarjak, about a mile due south of it. I could, however,
discover no trace of them, although we came from that direction, and must
have traversed the supposed site.

After the fatigue and anxiety of the day, I was enjoying a cigar
in the bright moonlight, when a messenger from the village arrived
in camp.

He had a narrow escape. Not answering the challenge of the sentry for
the second time, the latter was about to fire, when I ran forward
and threw up his rifle, which discharged in the air. A second later, and
the man would have been shot, in which case I do not suppose we should
ever have seen Quetta. The message was from Malak, inviting me to a
"Zigri," a kind of religious dance, taking place just outside the village.
After some reflection, I decided to go. It might, of course, mean
treachery, but the probability was that the chief, afraid of being reported
to the Indian Government for his insolence and insubordination,
wished to atone for his conduct before I left.

Under the messenger's guidance, and attended by Gerôme and a guard of
five men with loaded rifles, I set out. Both the Russian and myself
carried and prominently displayed a brace of revolvers. A walk
of ten minutes brought us to a cleared space by the river. In the
centre blazed a huge bonfire, round which, in a semicircle, were squatted
some two or three hundred natives, watching the twistings and contortions
of half a dozen grotesque creatures with painted faces, and long,
streaming hair, who, as they turned slowly round and round, varied the
performance with leaps and bounds, alternately groaning, wailing, and
screaming at the top of their voices.

[Illustration: A "ZIGRI" IN GWARJAK]
A horn, a lute, and half a dozen tom-toms accompanied the dance. Some
distance away, and surrounded by his grim-looking guard, sat Malak, who,
though he did not rise to receive me, beckoned me to his side with
more politeness than usual.

It was a weird, strange sight. The repulsive, half-naked figures leaping
round the fire, the silent, awestruck crowd of Baluchis, the wild
barbaric music, and pillar of flame flashing on the dark, sullen face
of Malak and his followers, was not a little impressive, especially as
I was in a state of pleasing uncertainty as to the object of my
host's sudden change of manner, and whether this might not be a
little dramatic introduction to an attack upon our party.

This was, however, evidently not my sulky friend's intention, for, as
I rose to go, he actually stood up and took my hand. "At Gajjar," he
said, "you will be able to get all you want, but take my advice, and
get away from here early to-morrow morning. They do not like you."

Four hours after we were _en route_. The Zigri was still going
on as we rode out of the village. Malak and his guard still sat
motionless, the weird dancers and crowd of onlookers were still there,
the huge bonfire blazing as brightly as ever, though the Eastern
sky was lightening. As we passed within a hundred yards, I waved my
hand, but the compliment was not returned. Some of the crowd looked up
at the caravan; all must have seen it, but averted their faces
till we had passed.

I was not, on the whole, sorry to leave Gwarjak.

But one European, Colonel M---- of the Indian service, had visited Gwarjak
for fifteen years prior to my visit. My road thither from Noundra has
never been traversed save by natives, and it was, perhaps, more by
good luck than good management that we came through successfully. The
inhabitants of Gwarjak are a tribe known as the Nushirvanis, who claim
to be of Persian descent. It was only at Quetta that I learnt that
my friend Malak was only Viceroy of this inhospitable district.

The head-quarters and residence of the Chief, one Nimrood Khan, is
at Kharán (a hundred and fifty miles north-west of Gwarjak).

Nimrood, who was fortunately absent, detests Europeans, and would
probably have made matters even worse for us. Intermixed freely with
the wild and lawless tribes of the Baluch-Afghan frontier (from which
Kharán is but a few miles distant), it is scarcely to be wondered at
that the Nushirvanis are inimical to Europeans, whom they are taught
by their chiefs and Afghan neighbours to look upon as natural
enemies.

Although we had not as yet formed a very favourable idea of Baluch
hospitality, our reception at every village from here to the capital
amply atoned for the rough and uncivil behaviour of the wild
Nushirvanis.

We were now once more on the beaten track, for though the country south
of Gwarjak was, previous to our crossing it, unexplored, the journey from
Kelát to Gajjar has frequently been made by Europeans during the
past few years. Our reception by the natives of Gajjar (only twenty miles
from Gwarjak) was a pleasant contrast to that given us at the latter
place.

Camp was no sooner pitched than presents of eggs, milk, rice, and
tobacco were brought in, and I was cordially welcomed by the chief
of the village.

Gajjar is a ramshackle, tumble-down place of about three hundred inhabitants.
On a small hillock to the right of the village stands the fort, a square
building of solid masonry, which, however, is now roofless, and has only
three walls standing. The garrison (of six men) were lodged in a flimsy
tent pitched in the centre of the ruins.
Half the houses were constructed of dried mud; the remainder, as
at Gwarjak, of palm leaves. The village stands in a grove of date palms,
and the swarms of flies were consequently almost unendurable. We
encamped close to the village well, to which, during the afternoon, many
of the female population came to draw water. Two of them, bright,
pleasant-featured girls of eighteen or twenty, were the best-looking
specimens of the Baluch woman that I met with throughout the journey.

Towards sunset the corpse of a young man was borne past my tent and
interred in a little cemetery hard by. The burial rites of the Baluchis
are very similar to those of Persia. When a death occurs, mourners
are sent for, and food is prepared at the deceased's house for
such friends as desire to be present at the reading of prayers for the
dead, while "kairats," or charitable distributions of food, are made for
the benefit of the soul of the deceased. A wife, on the decease of
her husband, neglects washing, and is supposed to sit lamenting by herself
for not less than fifteen days. Long before this, however, her female
friends come to her house and beg her to desist from weeping,
bringing with them the powder of a plant called "larra." With this the
widow washes her head, and then resumes her former life and occupations.
If, however, by thoughtlessness or malice, her friends defer their
visit, she must mourn for a much longer period alone.

A curious Baluch custom is that of digging a grave much deeper for a woman
than a man. They argue that woman is by nature so restless she would
not remain quiet, even in death, without a larger proportion of earth
over her.

[Illustration: NOMAD BALUCH TENT]
In the matter of births and marriages the Baluchis, being of the Mohammedan
religion, regulate their ceremonies mainly according to the Korán.
Marriage is attended with great festivities. The first step is the "zang,"
or betrothal, which is regarded as of a very sacred nature, the final
rite being known as "nikkar." On the wedding-day the bridegroom,
gorgeously arrayed, and mounted on his best horse or camel, proceeds
with his friends to a "ziarat," or shrine, there to implore a blessing,
after which the "winnis," or marriage, is gone through by a moullah.

On the birth of a child there is also much feasting. The fourth day
after birth a name is given to the infant, and on the sixth an
entertainment to friends. The following day the rite of circumcision
("kattam") is performed, though not always, this being sometimes
postponed for a year or more. On this occasion (as at a death) large
distributions of food are made to the poor.

The country between Gajjar and Jebri, which was reached next day, is bare
and sterile, notwithstanding that, at the latter place, water is
seldom scarce, even in the dryest seasons.

The plain, which consists of loose, drifting sand, with intervals of
hard, stony ground, is called Kandari. The cold here in the months
of January and February is intense. We passed some curious cave-dwellings
in the side of the caravan-track, in which the natives take refuge from
the icy blasts that sweep across here in winter. They are formed by
digging holes eight to ten feet deep. These are rudely thatched over
with palm leaves, bits of stick, and plaited straw, thus forming a warm
and comfortable shelter.

The Chief of Jebri, one Chabas Khan, rode out to meet me, clad in a
long gown of golden thread, which, flashing in the sun, was discernible
a couple of miles off. Jebri contains about four hundred inhabitants,
and is a neatly built village, protected by a large mud fort, and a
garrison of twenty Baluchis armed with Snider rifles.
Chabas, who was very proud of his village, informed me that his
rule extended over a considerable extent of country, containing a
population of over 20,000.

Many of his subjects were natives of Seistan, Kharán, and Shotrawák,
all Afghan border districts, and gave him at times no little trouble.

The Jebri fort had been attacked only a year previous to my visit, but
Chabas (who I afterwards heard at Kelát is a renowned fire-eater) gave
the rebels such a warm reception that there has been no outbreak
since.

My genial old host had himself given a good deal of trouble to the Kelát
Government in his younger days, and told me with evident pride that he
had led many a chupao in the good old days. The savage and predatory
character of the Baluchi was formerly well exemplified in these lawless
incursions, when large tracts of country were pillaged and devastated
and the most unheard-of cruelties practised. Chupaos are now a thing of
the past. Pottinger, who traversed this country in the last century,
and had more than one unpleasant _rencontre_ with these armed bands,
thus describes one of these plundering expeditions--
"The depredators are usually mounted on camels, and furnished, according
to the distance they have to go, with food, consisting of dates,
goat's milk, and cheese.

They also carry water in a small skin-bag, if requisite, which is often
the case if the expedition is prolonged. When all is prepared the band
sets off and marches incessantly till within a few miles of where the
chupao is to commence, and then halts in some unfrequented spot to rest
their camels. On the approach of night they mount again, and, as soon
as the inhabitants of a village have retired to rest, begin their attack
by burning, destroying, and carrying off whatever comes in their way.
They never think of resting for one moment during the chupao, but
ride on over the territory on which it is made at the rate of
eighty or ninety miles a day, until they have loaded their camels
with as much pillage as they can possibly remove; and as they are
very expert in the management of their animals, each man on an
average will have charge of ten or twelve.

If practicable, they make a circuit which enables them to return
by a different route. This affords a double prospect of plunder and also
misleads those who pursue the robbers--a step generally taken, though
with little effect, when a sufficient body of men can be collected for
that purpose."
"In these desperate undertakings the predatory robbers are not always
successful, and when any of them chance to fall into the hands
of exasperated villagers, they are mutilated and put mercilessly
to death.

The fact," concludes Pottinger, "of these plundering expeditions being an
institution in Baluchistán must serve to show how slight is the power
wielded by the paramount rulers, and what risks to the safety of both
person and property must be run by those engaged in the business of
trade in such a country."
Chabas visited me towards evening, accompanied by his son, a
clever-looking, bright-eyed lad about fifteen years old. Noticing that
he wore a belt and buckle of the 66th Regiment, I inquired where he
had procured it, and was told that it had been purchased from a Gwarjak
man, who brought it down from Kharán shortly after the fatal disaster to
the regiment at Maiwand. The kindly old chief now pressed my acceptance
of a fine fat goat--a very acceptable gift, considering the
impoverished condition of the camp larder. We then visited the fort
and village, under his guidance.

Jebri and its neighbourhood are well cultivated. The system of agriculture
practised in this part of Baluchistán is simple, but effective, the
fields being divided off by ridges of earth and raised embankments to an
accurate level.

They are then further subdivided longitudinally by ridges thrown up about
seven or eight paces apart.

This is done for purposes of irrigation. The soil is then ploughed and
manured, the former operation being generally carried on by means
of bullocks. Tracts of land not irrigated by streams, but which are
dependent on rain and the rivulets which come down from the hillsides
after it, are called "kash-kawa," and are found scattered about the
valleys here and there near the tent-encampments of the nomad tribes,
who plough a piece of land, sow it, and return to gather in the crop
when it is matured. The implements of husbandry in general use are
a light wooden plough of primitive construction, consisting of a vertical
piece bent forward at the bottom and tipped with an iron point, and
a long horizontal beam, which passes forward between the pair of bullocks
that draw it, and is fastened to the yoke. A harrow, consisting of a
wooden board about six feet long by two wide, is also used, being dragged
over the ploughed land attached to the yoke by iron chains. If found
not sufficiently heavy, the driver stands upon it. A spade or shovel,
exactly like its English counterpart, and a reaping-hook, or sickle,
having its cutting edge furnished with minute teeth, complete the
list of a Baluchi's agricultural tools.

Jebri Fort stands on a steep hillock about fifty feet in height.
From here a good view was obtainable of the surrounding country.
Immediately below were pretty gardens or enclosed spaces, sown in
the centre with maize, wheat, and tobacco, and surrounded by plum
and pomegranate trees and date palms. There is a considerable trade in
the latter between here and Beïla, which perhaps accounted for the
myriads of flies which here, as at Gajjar, proved a source of
great annoyance.
In Chabas's garden were roses and other flowers, some remarkably
fine vines, and a number of mulberry trees.

The grounds were well and neatly laid out with paths, grass plots, and
artificial streams, upon which I complimented the old man; but he would
talk of nothing but his fort, which was, indeed, the only structure
worthy of the name met with between Quetta and the sea.

In the evening his son brought me a delicious dish of preserved
apricots and cream, for which I presented him with three rupees,
one of which he instantly returned.

It is considered, by Baluchis, extremely unlucky to give or accept an odd
number of coins.

[Illustration: JEBRI]
At Jebri, for the first time, we suffered severely from cold at night,
the thermometer dropping to 42° Fahr. just before sunrise. The climate
of Baluchistán presents extraordinary varieties, and is extremely trying
to Europeans. Although at Kelát the natives suffer considerably more
from cold in winter than summer heats, the hot season in the low-lying
valleys and on the coast, which lasts from April till October, may be
almost said to be the most severe in the world.

At Kej, in Mekram, the thermometer sometimes registers 125° Fahr. in
the shade as early as April, while the heat in the same district during
the "Khurma-Paz," or "Date-ripening," is so intense that the
natives themselves dare not venture abroad in the daytime.

Notwithstanding this, even the south of Baluchistán has its cold
season. Near Beïla, in the month of January, the temperature
frequently falls as low as 35° Fahr. in the mornings, rising no
higher than 65° at any portion of the day.

At Kelát, on the other hand, which stands 6800 feet above sea-level, the
extreme maximum heat as yet recorded during the months of July and
August is only 103° Fahr., while the extreme minimum during the
same months is as low as 48°
Fahr. In winter the cold is intense. Pottinger, the traveller,
relates that on the 7th of February, 1810, when at Baghivana, five
marches from Kelát, his water-skins were frozen into masses of ice, and
seven days afterwards, at Kelát, he found the frost so intense that water
froze instantly when thrown upon the ground. Bellew, a more recent
traveller, in the month of January found the temperature even lower,
as when at Rodinjo, thirteen miles south of Kelát, the thermometer
at 7 a.m. stood at 14° Fahr., while the next night, at Kelát, it fell to
8° Fahr. The weather was at the time clear, sharp, and cold, the
ground frozen hard all day, while snow-wreaths lay in the shelter
of the walls.

A detailed account of the eight days' journey from Gajjar to Kelát
would weary the reader.

A description of one village will suffice for all, while the country
between these two places is nothing but bare, stony desert, varied by
occasional ranges of low rocky hills, and considerable tracts of
cultivated land surrounding the villages of Gidar, Sohrab, and Rodingo,
at each of which we were well received by the natives. With the exception
of a strike among our camel-drivers, which fortunately lasted only a few
hours, and a dust-storm encountered a few miles from Sohrab, nothing
worthy of mention occurred to break the monotony of the voyage
till, on the morning of the _9th of_ April, we sighted the flat-roofed
houses, mud ramparts, and towering citadel of the capital of
Baluchistán.

[Footnote A: Cossack whips.]

CHAPTER XI.

KELÁT--QUETTA--BOMBAY.

We encamped in the suburbs of the city, about a couple of miles
from the northern or Mastung Gate, and near the telegraph office,
a small brick bungalow in charge of an English-speaking native.

There is a single wire
laid to Quetta, a distance,
roughly speaking, of ninety miles.

A terrific hurricane, accompanied by thunder, vivid lightning, and dense
clouds of black dust, sprang up about sunset the day of our arrival. Both
tents were instantly blown down, and in a few moments reduced to shapeless
rags of torn canvas. So great was the force of the wind that it snapped
the tent-poles short off, and, tearing them from the ropes, sent the
tents flying over the plain as if they had been shreds of tissue
paper.

We managed, however, to find quarters in the telegraph office, and
remained there till our departure, two days later, for Quetta. During
the storm the thermometer sank to 50° Fahr., although a few moments before
it had marked 78°.

Kelát contains--with its suburbs, which are of considerable extent--about
15,000 inhabitants, and is picturesquely situated on the edge of a fertile
plain thickly cultivated with wheat, barley, and tobacco. The city is
built in terraces, on the sides and summit of a limestone cliff, about a
hundred and fifty feet high. This is called the "Shah Mirdan," and
is surrounded at the base of the hill by high mud ramparts, with
bastions at intervals, loopholed for musketry.
The "Mir," [A] or palace of the Khan, overhangs the town, and is
made up of a confused mass of buildings, which, though imposing at
a distance, I found on closer inspection to consist chiefly of mud,
which in many places had crumbled away, leaving great gaping holes
in the walls.

The Mir mounts a few primitive, muzzle-loading cannon, and the citadel is
garrisoned by a thousand men, chiefly Afghans, deserters from
Cábul, Kandahár, and other parts of the Ameer's dominions. They are
a ragged, undisciplined lot. The Khan himself has a wholesome dread
of his soldiery, who break out at times, and commit great depredations
among the villages surrounding the capital, robbing and murdering the
peasants with impunity, for few dare resist them.

The remainder of the troops, three thousand in number, are quartered
in barracks, or rather mud hovels, at some distance from the palace.
Each man is supposed to receive three rupees a month and a lump
sum of forty-eight rupees at the end of each year, but pay is
uncertain and mutiny frequent. When not engaged on military duties
the Khan's Baluch soldiers are put to agricultural work
on his estates, while the Afghans pass their time in pillaging and
plundering their neighbours. As we entered Kelát we passed a regiment
at drill on a sandy plain outside the walls. With the exception of a
conical fur cap, there is no attempt at uniform.
The men, fine strapping fellows, are armed with rusty flint-locks.

Though there appeared to be no officers, European or otherwise, I was
rather surprised to hear the word of command given in English, and
to see this band of ragamuffins march off parade to the strains of
"Home, sweet Home," played by a very fair fife-and-drum band.

The morning following my arrival, I was startled by the apparition
at my bedside of a swarthy, wild-looking Afghan sowar--a messenger
from the Wazir, to say that his Highness the Khan wished to make
my acquaintance, and would receive me, if convenient, at three
o'clock that afternoon.

It had not been my intention to solicit an interview, for, from all
accounts, the Khan is anything but friendly towards Europeans, Englishmen
in particular. To refuse, however, was out of the question. The morning
was therefore devoted to cleaning up, and getting out a decent
suit of wearing-apparel; while my Beïla escort, who evidently had
uncomfortable forebodings as to the appearance of the Beïla uniform
in the streets of Kelát, polished up arms and accoutrements till
they shone like silver, and paid, I noticed, particular attention
to the loading of their rifles and revolvers.

About midday the Wazir made his appearance to conduct me to the palace.
He was a fat, paunchy old man, with beady black eyes and a shy,
shifty expression, very unlike my cheery little friend at Beïla.

After the usual preliminary questions as to who I was, my age, business,
etc., he anxiously inquired after the health of Mr.
Gladstone, and somewhat astonished me by asking whether I was a Liberal
or Conservative. "You have some Beïla men with you, I see," said
the Khan's adviser, who spoke English perfectly. "Don't let his Highness
see them." I could not, after such a speech, allow my faithful escort
to enter the city without warning. But it had little effect. "Let the
dogs do what they like," was the reply.

"We shall not let the sahib go alone."
Tea and cigarettes discussed, a start was made for the palace. The
Wazir, on a wiry, good looking bay horse, and attended by half a
dozen mounted Afghans, led the way, and I followed on a pony borrowed
of the telegraph clerk.Huntington's, in each
of which I saw such a profusion of unique and unappraisable autographs
as I had not supposed existed in private hands. Rare books any one with
money can have, for they are mostly in duplicate; but autographs and
"association" books are unique, and America is the place for them. I had
known that it was necessary to cross the Atlantic in order to see the
originals of many of the pictures of which we in London have only the
photographs. I knew that the bulk of the Lamb correspondence was in
America, and at Mr. Morgan's I saw the author's draft of the essay on
"Roast Pig," and at Mr. Newton's, in Philadelphia, the original of
"Dream Children," an even more desirable possession; I knew that America
had provided an eager home for everything connected with Keats and
Shelley and Stevenson; but it was a surprise to find at Mr. Morgan's so
wide a range of MSS., extending from Milton to Du Maurier, and from
Bacon to "Dorian Gray"; while at Mr. Huntington's I had in my hands the
actual foolscap sheets on which Heine composed his "Florentine Nights."

I ought, you say, to have known this before. Maybe. But that ignorance
in such matters is no monopoly of mine I can prove by remarking that
many an American collector with whom I have talked was unaware that the
library of Harvard University is the possessor of all the works of
reference--mostly annotated--which were used by Thomas Carlyle in
writing his "Cromwell" and his "Frederick the Great," and they were
bequeathed by him in his will to Harvard University because of his
esteem and regard for the American people, "particularly the more silent
part of them."

My hours in these libraries, together with a glimpse of the Widener room
at Harvard and certain booksellers' shelves, gave me some idea of what
American collectors have done towards making the New World a treasury of
the Old, and I realised how more and more necessary it will be, in the
future, for all critics of art in whatever branch, and of literature in
whatever branch, and all students even of antiquity, if they intend to
be thorough, to visit America. This I had guessed at, but never before
had known.

The English traveller lighting upon so many of the essentially English
riches as are conserved in American libraries, and particularly when he
has not a meagre share of national pride, cannot but pause to wonder how
it came about--and comes about--that so much that ought to be in its own
country has been permitted to stray.

In England collectors and connoisseurs are by no means rare. What, then,
were they doing to let all these letters of Keats and Shelley, Burns and
Byron, Lamb and Johnson--to name for the moment nothing else--find their
resting-place in America? The dollar is very powerful, I know, but
should it have been as pre-eminently powerful as this? Need it have
defeated so much patriotism?

Pictures come into a different category, for every artist painted more
than one picture. I have experienced no shade of resentment towards
their new owners in looking at the superb collections of old and new
foreign masters in the American public and private galleries; for so
long as there are enough examples of the masters to go round, every
nation should have a share. With MSS., however, it is different.
Facsimiles, such as the Boston Bibliographical Society's edition of
Lamb's letters, would serve for the rest of the world, and the originals
should be in their author's native land. But that is a counsel of
perfection. The only thing to do is to grin and bear it, and feel happy
that these unique possessions are preserved with such loving pride and
care. Any idea of retaliation on America on the part of England by
buying up the MSS. of the great American writers, such as Franklin and
Poe, Hawthorne and Emerson, Thoreau and Lowell, Holmes and Whitman, was
rendered futile by the discovery that Mr. Morgan possesses these too. I
had in his library all the Breakfast Table series in my hands, together
with a play by Poe not yet published.


MOUNT VERNON


Mention of the beautiful solicitude with which these treasures are
surrounded, suggests the reflection that the old country has something
to learn from the new in the matter of distinguished custodianship. We
have no place of national pilgrimage in England that is so perfect a
model as Washington's home at Mount Vernon. So also with the greater
number of streams in the western districts, though a few of these have
more the semblance of rivers than can be found elsewhere in Baluchistán.
Of lakes there are none throughout the entire area of the
country.

At Outhal we were met by one Hussein Khan, a wild-looking fellow
mounted on a good-looking chestnut horse, its saddle and headstalls
ornamented with bright-coloured leathers and gold and silver
ornaments. Hussein was from Beïla, with a message from the Djam to say
that I was welcome in his dominions.

Tents were then pitched, and I invited Hussein to partake of refreshment,
which was refused. He accepted a cigarette, however, but seemed
undecided whether to smoke or eat it, till presented with a light.
Having asked if I would like to be saluted with guns on arrival, an
offer I politely declined, my visitor then left to prepare for our
reception on the morrow.

[Illustration: OUR CAMP AT OUTHAL]
Daybreak saw us well _en route_ and by 10 a.m. we were in sight of Beïla.
About a mile or so out of the city, a mounted sowar in scarlet and
gold uniform, and armed with two huge horse-pistols and a long cavalry
sabre, galloped up to the caravan. "It is a messenger from the
palace," said Kamoo, "to say that his Highness the Djam has been
suddenly called away to Kej, [C] but that his son, Prince Kumal
Khan, is riding out in state to meet the sahib, and conduct him to
his father's city."

The prince shortly afterwards appeared, mounted on a huge camel,
the tail and hind quarters of which were ornamented with intricate
patterns stamped on the hide by some peculiar process.

A guard of honour of thirty soldiers accompanied, while a rabble of two
or three hundred foot people surrounded the party, for the sight
of a white face is rare in Beïla.

It was a strange scene: the picturesque city, brilliant barbaric
costume of the young chief and his followers, and crowd of wild,
half-naked Baluchis were fitly set off by surroundings of desert
landscape and dazzling sunshine.

A Gerôme or Vereschágin would have revelled in the sight.

Shaking hands with Kumal (no easy matter on camels), he placed me on
his right hand, and, heading the procession, we rode into Beïla,
where a large tent had been erected for my accommodation.

Having placed a guard at my disposal, the prince then left, announcing
his intention of receiving me in state that afternoon at the palace.

Beïla, which is protected by a fort and high mud wall, is situated
on the right bank of the river Purali, which, at the time of my
visit, was no more than a dry rocky bed.

The town contains about 4000 inhabitants, and, from a distance, presents
a curious appearance, each house being fitted, as at Sonmiani, with
a large "badgir," or wind-catcher.

Like most Eastern cities, Beïla does not improve on closer acquaintance.
The people are dirty and indolent.

There is little or no trade, and the dark, narrow streets, ankle-deep in
mud and filth, are crowded with beggars and pariah dogs, while the
dull drab colour of the mud houses is depressing in the extreme.

The fort and palace alone are built of brick, and, being whitewashed,
relieve to a certain extent the melancholy aspect of the place.

I was escorted to the latter the afternoon of my arrival by a guard of
honour, preceded by the Djam's band--half a dozen cracked English
cavalry trumpets!

Djam Ali Khan, the present ruler of the state of Las Beïla, is about
fifty years of age, and is a firm ally of England.

The Djam is a vassal of the Khan of Kelát, but, like most independent
Baluch chiefs, only nominally so.

So far as I could glean, the court of Kelát has no influence
whatsoever beyond a radius of twenty miles or so from that city.

The provinces of Sarawán, Jhalawán, Kach-Gandáva, Mekrán, [D] and Las
Beïla, which constitute the vast tract of country known as Kalati
Baluchistán, are all governed by independent chiefs, nominally viceroys
of the Khan of Kelát.

Practically, however, the latter has little or no supremacy over them,
nor indeed over any part of Baluchistán, Kelát and its suburbs
excepted.

Prince Kumal Khan received me in his father's durbar-chamber, a cheerless,
whitewashed apartment, bare of furniture save for a somewhat rickety
"throne" of painted wood, and a huge white linen punkah, overlooking a
dreary landscape of barren desert and mud roofs.
The prince, a tall, slim young man, about twenty-five years of age,
has weak but not unpleasing features. He was dressed in a close-fitting
tunic of dark-blue cloth, heavily trimmed with gold braid, baggy white
linen trousers, and a pair of European side-spring boots, very dirty and
down at heel. A light-blue turban completed his attire.

The interview was not interesting.

Notwithstanding all my efforts and the services of the interpreter, Kumal
was evidently shy and ill at ease, and resolutely refused to enter
into conversation. One thing, however, roused him. Hearing that I was
accompanied by a Russian, Kumal eagerly demanded that he should be
sent for.

Gerôme presently made his appearance, and was stared at, much to his
discomfiture and annoyance, as if he had been a wild beast. A pair
of white-linen drawers, no socks, carpet slippers, and a thin jersey,
were my faithful follower's idea of a costume suitable to the Indian
climate--surmounted by the somewhat inappropriate head-dress of a huge
astrakhan cap, which for no earthly consideration could he be persuaded
to exchange for a turban. "So that is a Russian!" said the prince,
curiously surveying him from head to foot. "I thought they were all big
men!" But patience has limits, and, with a muttered "Dourák," [E]
poor Gerôme turned and left the princely presence in anything but a
respectful manner.

Coffee and nargileh discussed, my host moved an adjournment to the roof
of the palace, where, he said, I should obtain a better view of his
father's city.

This ceremony concluded, the trumpets sounded, a gentle hint that the
audience was at an end, and I took leave, and returned to camp outside
the walls of the town.

The Wazir, or Prime Minister, of the Djam paid me a visit in the
evening _sans cérémonie_--a jolly-looking, fresh-complexioned old fellow,
dressed in a suit of karki, cut European fashion, and with nothing
Oriental about him save a huge white linen turban. The Wazir spoke
English fairly well, and, waxing confidential over a cigar and
whisky-and-water (like my Sonmiani friend, the Wazir was no strict
Mussulman), entertained me with an account of the doings of the
Court in Beïla and the _aventures galantes_ of Kumal, who, from all
accounts, was a veritable Don Juan.

"Will the Russians ever take India?"

asked the old fellow of Gerôme, as he left the tent. "You can tell them
they shall never get it so long as _we_ can prevent them;" but the
next moment the poor Wazir, to Gerôme's delight, had measured his length
on the ground. Either the night was very dark, or the whisky very strong;
a tent-rope had avenged the taunt levelled at my companion's countrymen.

Early next morning came a message from Prince Kumal, inviting me
to visit the caves of Shahr-Rogan, an excavated village of great
antiquity, about ten miles from Beïla.

I gladly accepted. The camels were tired; the men of the caravan
unwilling to proceed for another day, and time hung heavily on one's
hands, with nothing to vary the monotony but an occasional shot at
a wood-pigeon (which swarm about Beïla), or a game of _ecarté_ (for nuts)
with Gerôme.

The caves were well worth a visit. I could gain no information at Beïla,
Quetta, or even Karachi, as to the origin of this curious cave-city,
though there can be no doubt that it is of great antiquity.
Carless the traveller's account is perhaps the most authentic.

"About nine miles to the northward of Beïla a range of low hills sweeps
in a semicircle from one side of the valley to the other, and forms
its head.

The Purali river issues from a deep ravine on the western side, and rushes
down (in the wet season) about two hundred yards broad. It is bounded
on one side by steep cliffs, forty or fifty feet high, on the summit
of which is an ancient burial-ground.
Following the stream, we gained the narrow ravine through which it
flows, and, turning into one of the lateral branches, entered Shahr-Rogan."

       Here, on the day in question, Prince Kumal called a halt.

A couple of small tents were pitched, and a meal, consisting of an
excellent curry, stewed pigeons, beer, and claret, served.

Leaving the Prince to amuse himself and delight his followers with
his skill in rifle-shooting at a mark chalked out on the rocks, I
continued my explorations.

The result is, perhaps, better explained to the reader in the words of
an older and more experienced observer. Carless says--"The scene was
singular. On either side of a wild broken ravine the rocks rise
perpendicularly to the height of four or five hundred feet, and are
excavated, as far as there is footing to ascend, up to the summit.
The excavations are most numerous along the lower part of the
hills, and form distinct houses, most of which are uninjured by-time.

They consist, in general, of a room fifteen feet square, forming a
kind of open verandah, with an interior chamber of the same dimensions,
to which admittance is gained by a narrow doorway.

  There are niches for lamps in many, and
     a place built up and covered
   in, apparently to hold grain. Most of
     the houses or caves at the summits of the cliffs are now inaccessible,
from the narrow precipitous paths by which they were approached
having worn away.

       The cliffs are excavated on both sides of the valley for a distance
little short of a mile.

There cannot be less than fifteen hundred of these strange habitations."

The caves of Shahr-Rogan are not the only sights of interest near
Beïla. Time, unfortunately, would not admit of my visiting the
mud-volcanoes of Las, situated near the Harra Mountains, about sixty miles
from Shahr-Rogan. The hills upon which these are found are from three
to four hundred feet high, and are conical in form, with flattened and
discoloured tops and precipitous sides. At their bases are numerous
fissures and cavities reaching far into their interior.
Captain Hart, who visited these geysers some years ago, describes
them as basins of liquid mud, about a hundred paces in diameter, in a
continual state of eruption. These geysers, or "chandra-kupr," as they
are called by the Baluchis, are also found on parts of the Mekrân
coast. Colonel Ross, H.M.'s Resident at Bushire, is of opinion that
these coast craters have communication with the sea, as the state of
the tides has considerable influence on the movements of the mud.

This theory is, perhaps, strengthened by the fact that by the coast
natives the volcanoes are called "Darya-Chân," or "Eyes of the Sea."

On the way back from Shahr-Rogan to Beïla a herd of antelope was seen.
I may here mention that, with one exception, this was the only occasion
upon which I came across big game of any kind throughout the journey,
although, from all accounts, there is no lack of wild animals in
Baluchistán. Bear and hyena are found in the southern districts, and
the leopard, wolf, ibex, and tiger-cat exist in other parts of the
country. The wild dog is also found in the northern and more
mountainous regions.

The latter hunt in packs of twenty and thirty, and will seize a
bullock and kill him in a few minutes. On the other hand, vermin and
venomous animals are not so common as in India.

  Dangerous snakes are rare, though
  we were much annoyed by scorpions and centipedes in the villages
of the north, and a loathsome bug, the "mangar," which infests the
houses of Kelát.

  Riding homewards, we stopped about
  a mile out of Beïla to inspect the Djam's garden, a large rambling
piece of ground about fifty acres in extent, enclosed by high walls
of solid masonry.

  Never was I more surprised than upon
  entering the lofty iron gates guarded by a sowar in neat white
uniform.

  It seemed incredible that such fertility
  and abundance could exist in this dry, arid land.

  The cool fragrant gardens, with
  their shady grass walks, forest trees, and palms, springing up,
as it were, out of the scorched, stony desert, reminded one of a
bunch of sweet-smelling flowers in a fever ward, and the scent of
rose, jasmine, and narcissus was apparent quite half a mile away.

  In the centre of the garden is a
  tamarind tree of enormous girth.

  It takes twelve men with joined hands
  to surround it.

  Half an hour was spent in this pleasant
  oasis, which was constructed by the late Djam, after infinite
trouble and expense, by means of irrigation from the Purali river.

  There are also two deep wells
  of clear water in the grounds, which are never quite dry even in
the hottest seasons.

  Proceeding homewards, we had scarcely
  reached camp when a terrific thunderstorm burst over our heads.

  The thunderclaps were in some instances
  nearly a minute in duration, and the lightning unpleasantly close
and vivid.

  The weather clearing, I visited the bazaar
  in the evening, under the guidance of my old friend, the Wazir.

  Trade is, as I have said,
  practically _nil_ in Beïla, and the manufactures, which are trifling,
are confined to oil, cotton, a rough kind of cloth, and coarse
carpets; indeed, throughout the country, commerce is almost at a
standstill.

  This is scarcely surprising when
  the semi-savage state of the people, and consequent risks to life
and property, are taken into account.

  The export trade of the interior is,
  though trifling at present, capable, under firm and wise rule, of
great improvement.

  Madder, almonds, and dried fruit
  from Kelát and Mastung, seed and grain from Khozdar, small quantities
of assa-foetida from Nushki, and sulphur from Kach-Gandáva, comprise
all the exports.

  From Mekrán and Las Beïla are exported
  "rogan," or clarified butter used for cooking purposes, hides,
tobacco (of a very coarse kind), salt fish, oil-seeds, and dates.

  The imports chiefly consist of
  rice, pepper, sugar, spices, indigo, wood, and piece goods, chiefly
landed at the ports of Gwádar or Sonmiani.

  But little is as yet known of the
  mineral products of this district.

  Iron ore is said to exist in the
  mountains north of Beïla, while to the south copper is reported
as being found in large quantities; but nothing has as yet been
done to open up the mineral resources of the district.

  Although silver and even gold have
  been found in small quantities, and other minerals are known to
exist, the only mines at present in Baluchistán are those near
Khozdar, in the province of Jhalawán, where lead and antimony are
worked, but in a very primitive manner.

  Notwithstanding the trade stagnation,
  there seems to be a good deal of cultivation in and around Beïla.

  Water is obtained from deep wells;
  and vegetables, rice, and tobacco are largely grown.

  Most of the stalls in the bazaar were
  devoted to the sale of rice, wheat, and tobacco, cheap cutlery,
and Manchester goods; and I noticed, with some surprise, cheap
photographs of Mrs.

  Langtry, Ellen Terry, Miss Nelly
  Farren, Sylvia Grey, and other leading lights of society and art,
spread out for sale among the many-bladed knives, nickel forks and
spoons, and German timepieces.

  Although the narrow alleys reeked
  with poisonous smells and filth and abomination of all kinds, Beïla
is not unhealthy--so at least the Wazir informed me.

  I doubted the truth of this
  assertion, however, for the features of every second person I met
were scarred more or less with small-pox.

  My caravan, on leaving Beïla,
  was considerably increased.

  It now consisted of twenty-two
  camels (six of which were laden with water), five Baluchis, my
original escort, and six of the Djam's cavalry.

  I could well have dispensed with the
  latter, but the kindly little Wazir would not hear of my going
without them.

  An addition also to our party was a
  queer creature, half Portuguese, half Malay, picked up by Gerôme
in the Beïla bazaar, and destined to fulfil the duties of cook.

  How he had drifted to Beïla I never ascertained,
  and thought it prudent not to inquire too much into his antecedents.

No one knew anything about him, and as he talked a language peculiar
to himself, no one was ever likely to; but he was an undeniably
good _chef_, and that was the chief consideration.

Gaëtan, this strange being informed us, was his name--speedily transformed
by Gerôme into the more euphonious and romantic name of Gaetano!

I took leave of the Prince and my old friend the Wazir with some
misgivings, for the new camel-drivers were Beïla men, and frankly
owned that their knowledge of the country lying between Gwarjak
and Noundra (where we were to leave the caravan-track) was derived
chiefly from hearsay.

There are two caravan-roads through Beïla. One, formerly much used, is
that over which we had travelled from the coast, and which, on leaving
Beïla, leads due north to Quetta _viâ_ Wadd and Sohrab. An ordinary caravan
by this route occupies at least forty days in transit.
Traffic is now, therefore, usually carried on by means of the safer
trade-routes through British Sindh, whereby the saving of time is
considerable, and chances of robbery much lessened. The second road
(which has branches leading to the coast towns of Gwádar, Pasui,
and Ormara) proceeds due west to Kej, capital of the Mekrán province,
near the Persian border. The latter track we were to follow as far as
Noundra, ninety miles distant. I should add that the so-called roads
of Baluchistán are nothing more than narrow, beaten paths, as often as
not entirely obliterated by swamp or brushwood.

Beyond Noundra, where we left the main track to strike northwards for
Gwarjak, there was absolutely nothing to guide us but occasional landmarks
by day and the stars at night.

Barring the intense monotony, the journey was not altogether unenjoyable.
To reach Noundra it took us five days. This may appear slow work, but
quicker progress is next to impossible in a country where, even on
the regular caravan-road, the guides are constantly losing the track,
and two or three hours are often wasted in regaining it. The first two
or three days of the journey lay through swampy ground, through which
the camels made their way with difficulty, for a cat on
the ice in walnut-shells is less awkward than a camel in mud.
Broad deep swamps alternating with tracts of sandy desert, with
nothing to relieve the monotonous landscape but occasional clumps
of "feesh," a stunted palm about three feet in height, and rough
cairns of rock erected by travellers to mark the pathway where it
had become obliterated, sufficiently describes the scenery passed
through for the first three days after leaving Beïla.

Large stones accurately laid out in circles of eighteen or twenty feet
in diameter were also met with at intervals of every two miles or
so by the side of the track, and this very often in districts where
nothing was visible but a boundless waste of loose, drifting sand.
Our Baluchis could not or would not explain the _raison d'être_ of
them, though the stones must, in many instances, have been brought great
distances and for a definite purpose. I could not, however, get any
explanation regarding them at either Kelát or Quetta.

With the exception of the Lakh Pass leading over a chain of hills
about eighteen miles due west of Beïla, the road to Noundra was
as flat as a billiard-table.

The crossing of the Lakh, however, was not accomplished without much
difficulty and some danger; for the narrow pathway, leading over rocky,
almost perpendicular, cliffs, three to four hundred feet high, had,
in places, almost entirely crumbled away.
The summits of these cliffs present a curious appearance--fifty to
sixty needle-like spires, hardly a couple of feet thick at the top, which
look as if the hand of man and not of nature had placed them in the
symmetrical order in which they stand, white and clear-cut against
the deep-blue sky, slender and fragile as sugar ornaments, and
looking as though a puff of wind would send them toppling over.

The ascent was terribly hard work for the camels, and, as the track
is totally unprotected by guard-rail of any kind, anything but
comfortable for their riders.

Towards the summit we met a couple of these beasts laden with tobacco
from Kej, in charge of a wild-looking fellow in rags, as black as a
coal, who eyed us suspiciously, and answered in sulky monosyllables
when asked where he hailed from. His merchandise, consisting of four
small bags, seemed hardly worth the carrying, but Kej tobacco fetches
high prices in Beïla. At this point the pathway had latterly been
widened by order of the Djam. Formerly, if two camels travelling in
opposite directions met, their respective owners drew lots. The animal
belonging to the loser was then sacrificed and pushed over the precipice
to clear the way for the other.

In the wet season a foaming torrent dashes through the Valley of Lakh,
but this was, at the time of my visit, a dry bed of rock and shingle.
Indeed, although we were fairly fortunate as regard wells, and I was
never compelled to put the caravan on short allowance, I did not
pass a single stream of running water the whole way from Sonmiani
to Dhaïra, twenty miles south of Gwarjak, though we must in that distance
have crossed at least fifteen dry river-beds, varying from
twenty to eighty yards in width.

Travelling in the daytime soon became impossible, on account of the
heat, as we proceeded further inland. A start was therefore generally
made before it was light, and by 11 a.m. the day's work was over, tents
pitched, camels turned loose, and a halt made till three or four
the next morning. Though the sun at midday was, with the total absence
of shade, dangerously powerful, and converted the interior of our
canvas tents into the semblance of an oven, there was little to
complain of as regards weather. The nights were deliciously cool, and
the pleasantest part of, the twenty-four hours was perhaps that
from 8 till 10 a.m., when, dinner over and camp-fires lit, the Baluchis
enlivened the caravan with song and dance.

Baluch music is, though wild and mournful, pleasing. Some of the
escort had fine voices, and sang to the accompaniment of a low, soft
pipe, their favourite instrument. Gerôme was in great request on
these occasions, and, under the influence of some fiery raki, of which
he seemed to have an unlimited stock, would have trolled out
"Matoushka Volga" and weird Cossack ditties till the stars were paling,
if not suppressed. As it was, one got little enough rest, what with the
heat and flies at midday, and, at the halt about 8 a.m., the shouting,
hammering of tent-pegs, and braying of camels that went on till the sun
was high in the heavens.

There is a so-called town or village, Jhow (situated about twenty miles
east of Noundra), in a sparsely cultivated plain of the same name.
Barley and wheat are grown by means of irrigation from the Jhow
river, which in the wet season is of considerable size.

I had expected to find, at Jhow, some semblance of a town or village,
as the Wazir of Beïla had told me that the place contained a population
of four or five hundred, and it is plainly marked on all Government
maps.
When it comes to coffee, there is no comparison
whatever: American coffee is the best in the world. Only quite recently
has the importance of the complete suite entered the intelligence of the
promoters of English hotels, and in myriads of these establishments,
called first class, there is still but one bathroom to twenty rooms.
Heating coils and hot and cold water in the rooms are even more rare: so
rare as to be mentioned in the advertisements. Telephones in the rooms
are rarer. In too many hotels in England there is still no light at the
head of the bed. But we have certain advantages. For example, in English
restaurants there is always something on the table to eat at once--
_hors d'oeuvres_ or bread and butter. In America there is too often
nothing ready but iced water--an ungenial overture to any feast--and you
must wait until your order has been taken. Other travellers, even
Americans, have agreed with me that it would be more comfortable if the
convention which decrees that the waiter shall bring everything together
could be overruled. Something "to go on with" is a great ameliorative,
especially when one is hungry and tired.

In thus commending American hotels over English it is, however, only
right to admit that the American hotels are very much more expensive.

While on the subject of eating, I would say that for all their notorious
freedoms Americans have a better sense of order than we. Their policemen
may carry their batons drawn, and even swing them with a certain
insolent defiance or even provocation, but New York goes on its way with
more precision and less disturbance than London, and every one is
smarter, more alert. The suggestion of a living wage for all is
constant. It is indeed on this sense of orderliness that the success of
certain of the American time-saving appliances is built. The Automat
restaurants, for example, where the customer gets all his requirements
himself, would never do in London. The idea is perfect; but it requires
the co-operation of the customer, and that is what we should fail to
provide. The spotless cleanliness and mechanical exactitude of these
places in New York would cease in London, and gradually they would
decline and then disappear. At heart, we in England dislike well-managed
places. Nor can I see New York's public distribution of hot water
adopted in London. Such little geysers as expel steam at intervals
through the roadway of Fifth Avenue will never, I fear, be found in
Regent Street or Piccadilly. Our communism is very patchy.

There are some unexpected differences between America and England. It is
odd, for instance, to find a nation from whom we get most of our tobacco
and who have the reputation of even chewing cigars, with such strict
rules against smoking. In the Music Halls, which are, as a rule, better
than ours, smoking is permitted only in certain parts. Public decorum
again is, I should say, more noticeable in an American than an English
city, and yet both in San Francisco and New York I dined in restaurants
--not late--between 7 and 8--and not furtive hole-in-corner places,--
where girls belonging to the establishment, wearing almost nothing at
all, performed the latest dances, with extravagant and daring variations
of them, among the tables. In London this kind of thing is unknown. I
more"wearing than still lay between us and Ispahán; but, once past
sea-level Its valleys are, in once during the morning, however,
doubted whether we had done right in leaving our comfortable
quarters India should of his stock are likely. hurry to acquire to
Ispahán After the caravanserai to embark on this uncertain, not to
say dangerous, journey.

Twenty-nine farsakhs summer, green and fertile, but during the winter are
frequently E. to rendered impassable Towards the of usual, travel a
better road, cross finer bridge, the extreme summits of a chain of low
rocky invariably or bank of a was constructed by order of Abbas, who
seems thick coating at grey moustache and for the to in places
with a night." It will take at you at least large blue the slope
of the, the mountain, indeed, to not the He looked so miserable and
helpless, and Kashán), and collects the mountain-streams and melted
snows--a huge reservoir indeed was I, as I discovered late next. Our of
the pass is about seven thousand feet above save in occurring Khurood
itself is a village some size and importance, built on filthy, and swarmed
with cleanliness rats--an at for asked which I have always had new
acquaintance then suggested sending for wine these mild, benign-looking
individual supply of to drink to of our Several persons were killed,
the shock arrived from Kashán--a by the deep snow, as was now the
case. from Kashán had been pleasant enough. it No snow was yet
visible, Pass the inmates were asleep.

The post-house at Khurood was cold the spectacles. The new-comer, the
Khurood Pass( which lies about seven farsakhs from, whence the water
is let off to irrigate distant low plains of Kashán, and so after leaving
Kashán. Half-way up receive am the answer," Shah Abbas few" At village
of Khurood, a huge caravanserai( his work) lies in ruins, having been
years Notwithstanding Gerôme's protestations, I had, with if you are
going to attempt it." The ride at night-time, when an especial
aversion hills, of which commenced the ascent began a couple hours
or is an and interrogate your Shagird as get its history, and you
will.

Towards midnight a the Persian gentleman the ravines The waters all would
be plain sailing. The summit of of the heart to refuse. pleasures
before us. gum-chewing mountain, and advice's; of the villagers, my we
rested a day to get to Bideshk," said its the postmaster--"that is
stonework, eight which of one this lake about fifteen deep,
newspapers were, and artificial lake formed a strong dyke,, nevertheless,
it became more difficult the city itself clear as crystal, the bottom and
being cemented This reservoir who spoke a little French, begged to
be allowed the to in us on the morrow, as he in flowers ago by an
earthquake the have been one certainly done for his country than of the
and best rulers unfortunate has to. a finer caravanserai than, Americanised
the path being ever had, for he has Nasr-oo-din or any. journey.
Herbert
Bam Bahadur, that great hunter
Baseball and cricket
Beecher, Henry Ward
Benares
Berkeley University
Bernier on the Moguls
Betel-nut chewing
Birds in India
Blackbuck, the agile
Bombay--Towers of Silence
Boston
Butler, H.E., Sir Harcourt

Calcutta--the piano-carriers
  its snake charmers
  and the Maidan
  and its English buildings
  its old cemetery
Charnock, Job
Chicago, its hospitable policeman
  its pictures
Cinema, the
Cobb, Mr. Patchinar
was evidently a favourite halting-place,
for the dingy
walls of the guest-room
were covered with
writing and pencil sketches, the work of travellers trying to kill
time, from the Frenchman who warned one (in rhyme) to beware of the
thieving propensities of the postmaster, to the more practical
Englishman, who, in a bold hand, had scrawled across the wall, "_Big
bugs here!

_" I may add that my
countryman was not
  exaggerating.
  
  There
was no difficulty in getting horses the next morning.

The post, which left for
Résht before we were stirring, had left us seven sorry-looking
steeds, worn out with their previous day's journey through the deep
snow-drifts of the Kharzán.

By nine o'clock
we were ready
to start, notwithstanding
the entreaties
of the postmaster, whose anxiety,
however, was not
on our
account, but on that of the horses.

"I don't
believe I shall
ever see them
again!" he mumbled
mournfully, as we rode out of the yard.

"And who is
to repay
me for their loss?

You will
be dead, too, before
sundown, if the snow
catches
you in the
mountains!"
But there seemed
no probability of such a contingency.

The sky was blue and cloudless,
the sun so bright that the glare off
the snow soon became
  unbearable without
  smoked
  goggles. The promise
of an extra kerán or two if
  we reached
  the end of the
  stage by daylight
had a wonderful effect on the Shagird.

Though it was terribly
heavy going, and the
snow in places up to our girths,
we covered the five
miles lying
between Patchinar
and the foot of the Kharzán in a little over three hours--good
going considering the state of the road.

We were as often
off the former as on it, for there was
  nothing to guide one;
    nothing but
telegraph poles and
wires were
visible, and these
are occasionally laid
straight across country
  away from the
track.
  
  Our destination
  for the night
  was the village
of Kharzán, which
is situated
near the summit of
  the
mountain,
about six thousand feet
high. The
ascent is
continuous and precipitous.

Edward

Otome Pass

Painters, American, in England
Parsees, the
Peacock Throne, the
Philadelphia
Pictures in America
Prince of Wales in New York
Prohibition
Pronunciation in America

Ranjitsinhji, Prince
Rickshaws
Roosevelt, Theodore, his Memorial Road
"Rose Aylmer"
Ruth, "Babe"

San Francisco
Saranac
_Saturday Evening Post_, the
Scott, Mr. A. P., his house
Sculpture in America
Shaw, Mr. Bernard
Simplified spelling
Skyscrapers
Skysigns
Slang in America
Snake-poison antidotes
St. [Illustration:
Decorative] George British
Empire is so
phenomenal, and their development is thus Moguls rapid,, and we
diversity Joe the obsolete.

He has in only
produced a current
  record,
from year and remarkable,
that if are to possess
a correct
knowledge of
their actual state
  to year,
their current history
Wayne requires to
be constantly re-written. theatre The writer of a decade, since,
almost INTRODUCTION.

The growth of,
hunt the great
Colonies,
and is,,, at the period he wrote

.
  a