     Gareth awhile lingered.  The mother's eye
  Full of the wistful fear that he would go,
  And turning toward him wheresoe'er he turned,
  Perplext his outward purpose, till an hour,
  When wakened by the wind which with full voice
  Swept bellowing through the darkness on to dawn,
  He rose, and out of slumber calling two
  That still had tended on him from his birth,
  Before the wakeful mother heard him, went.

     The three were clad like tillers of the soil.
  Southward they set their faces.  The birds made
  Melody on branch, and melody in mid air.
  The damp hill-slopes were quickened into green,
  And the live green had kindled into flowers,
  For it was past the time of Easterday.

     So, when their feet were planted on the plain
  That broadened toward the base of Camelot,
  Far off they saw the silver-misty morn
  Rolling her smoke about the Royal mount,
  That rose between the forest and the field.
  At times the summit of the high city flashed;
  At times the spires and turrets half-way down
  Pricked through the mist; at times the great gate shone
  Only, that opened on the field below:
  Anon, the whole fair city had disappeared.

     Then those who went with Gareth were amazed,
  One crying, 'Let us go no further, lord.
  Here is a city of Enchanters, built
  By fairy Kings.'  The second echoed him,
  'Lord, we have heard from our wise man at home
  To Northward, that this King is not the King,
  But only changeling out of Fairyland,
  Who drave the heathen hence by sorcery
  And Merlin's glamour.'  Then the first again,
  'Lord, there is no such city anywhere,
  But all a vision.'

                    Gareth answered them
  With laughter, swearing he had glamour enow
  In his own blood, his princedom, youth and hopes,
  To plunge old Merlin in the Arabian sea;
  So pushed them all unwilling toward the gate.
  And there was no gate like it under heaven.
  For barefoot on the keystone, which was lined
  And rippled like an ever-fleeting wave,
  The Lady of the Lake stood:  all her dress
  Wept from her sides as water flowing away;
  But like the cross her great and goodly arms
  Stretched under the cornice and upheld:
  And drops of water fell from either hand;
  And down from one a sword was hung, from one
  A censer, either worn with wind and storm;
  And o'er her breast floated the sacred fish;
  And in the space to left of her, and right,
  Were Arthur's wars in weird devices done,
  New things and old co-twisted, as if Time
  Were nothing, so inveterately, that men
  Were giddy gazing there; and over all
  High on the top were those three Queens, the friends
  Of Arthur, who should help him at his need.

     Then those with Gareth for so long a space
  Stared at the figures, that at last it seemed
  The dragon-boughts and elvish emblemings
  Began to move, seethe, twine and curl:  they called
  To Gareth, 'Lord, the gateway is alive.'

     And Gareth likewise on them fixt his eyes
  So long, that even to him they seemed to move.
  Out of the city a blast of music pealed.
  Back from the gate started the three, to whom
  From out thereunder came an ancient man,
  Long-bearded, saying, 'Who be ye, my sons?'

     Then Gareth, 'We be tillers of the soil,
  Who leaving share in furrow come to see
  The glories of our King:  but these, my men,
  (Your city moved so weirdly in the mist)
  Doubt if the King be King at all, or come
  From Fairyland; and whether this be built
  By magic, and by fairy Kings and Queens;
  Or whether there be any city at all,
  Or all a vision:  and this music now
  Hath scared them both, but tell thou these the truth.'

     Then that old Seer made answer playing on him
  And saying, 'Son, I have seen the good ship sail
  Keel upward, and mast downward, in the heavens,
  And solid turrets topsy-turvy in air:
  And here is truth; but an it please thee not,
  Take thou the truth as thou hast told it me.
  For truly as thou sayest, a Fairy King
  And Fairy Queens have built the city, son;
  They came from out a sacred mountain-cleft
  Toward the sunrise, each with harp in hand,
  And built it to the music of their harps.
  And, as thou sayest, it is enchanted, son,
  For there is nothing in it as it seems
  Saving the King; though some there be that hold
  The King a shadow, and the city real:
  Yet take thou heed of him, for, so thou pass
  Beneath this archway, then wilt thou become
  A thrall to his enchantments, for the King
  Will bind thee by such vows, as is a shame
  A man should not be bound by, yet the which
  No man can keep; but, so thou dread to swear,
  Pass not beneath this gateway, but abide
  Without, among the cattle of the field.
  For an ye heard a music, like enow
  They are building still, seeing the city is built
  To music, therefore never built at all,
  And therefore built for ever.'

                                Gareth spake
  Angered, 'Old master, reverence thine own beard
  That looks as white as utter truth, and seems
  Wellnigh as long as thou art statured tall!
  Why mockest thou the stranger that hath been
  To thee fair-spoken?'

                       But the Seer replied,
  'Know ye not then the Riddling of the Bards?
  "Confusion, and illusion, and relation,
  Elusion, and occasion, and evasion"?
  I mock thee not but as thou mockest me,
  And all that see thee, for thou art not who
  Thou seemest, but I know thee who thou art.
  And now thou goest up to mock the King,
  Who cannot brook the shadow of any lie.'

     Unmockingly the mocker ending here
  Turned to the right, and past along the plain;
  Whom Gareth looking after said, 'My men,
  Our one white lie sits like a little ghost
  Here on the threshold of our enterprise.
  Let love be blamed for it, not she, nor I:
  Well, we will make amends.'

                             With all good cheer
  He spake and laughed, then entered with his twain
  Camelot, a city of shadowy palaces
  And stately, rich in emblem and the work
  Of ancient kings who did their days in stone;
  Which Merlin's hand, the Mage at Arthur's court,
  Knowing all arts, had touched, and everywhere
  At Arthur's ordinance, tipt with lessening peak
  And pinnacle, and had made it spire to heaven.
  And ever and anon a knight would pass
  Outward, or inward to the hall:  his arms
  Clashed; and the sound was good to Gareth's ear.
  And out of bower and casement shyly glanced
  Eyes of pure women, wholesome stars of love;
  And all about a healthful people stept
  As in the presence of a gracious king.

     Then into hall Gareth ascending heard
  A voice, the voice of Arthur, and beheld
  Far over heads in that long-vaulted hall
  The splendour of the presence of the King
  Throned, and delivering doom--and looked no more--
  But felt his young heart hammering in his ears,
  And thought, 'For this half-shadow of a lie
  The truthful King will doom me when I speak.'
  Yet pressing on, though all in fear to find
  Sir Gawain or Sir Modred, saw nor one
  Nor other, but in all the listening eyes
  Of those tall knights, that ranged about the throne,
  Clear honour shining like the dewy star
  Of dawn, and faith in their great King, with pure
  Affection, and the light of victory,
  And glory gained, and evermore to gain.
     Then came a widow crying to the King,
  'A boon, Sir King!  Thy father, Uther, reft
  From my dead lord a field with violence:
  For howsoe'er at first he proffered gold,
  Yet, for the field was pleasant in our eyes,
  We yielded not; and then he reft us of it
  Perforce, and left us neither gold nor field.'

     Said Arthur, 'Whether would ye? gold or field?'
  To whom the woman weeping, 'Nay, my lord,
  The field was pleasant in my husband's eye.'

     And Arthur, 'Have thy pleasant field again,
  And thrice the gold for Uther's use thereof,
  According to the years.  No boon is here,
  But justice, so thy say be proven true.
  Accursed, who from the wrongs his father did
  Would shape himself a right!'

                               And while she past,
  Came yet another widow crying to him,
  'A boon, Sir King!  Thine enemy, King, am I.
  With thine own hand thou slewest my dear lord,
  A knight of Uther in the Barons' war,
  When Lot and many another rose and fought
  Against thee, saying thou wert basely born.
  I held with these, and loathe to ask thee aught.
  Yet lo! my husband's brother had my son
  Thralled in his castle, and hath starved him dead;
  And standeth seized of that inheritance
  Which thou that slewest the sire hast left the son.
  So though I scarce can ask it thee for hate,
  Grant me some knight to do the battle for me,
  Kill the foul thief, and wreak me for my son.'

     Then strode a good knight forward, crying to him,
  'A boon, Sir King!  I am her kinsman, I.
  Give me to right her wrong, and slay the man.'

     Then came Sir Kay, the seneschal, and cried,
  'A boon, Sir King! even that thou grant her none,
  This railer, that hath mocked thee in full hall--
  None; or the wholesome boon of gyve and gag.'

     But Arthur, 'We sit King, to help the wronged
  Through all our realm.  The woman loves her lord.
  Peace to thee, woman, with thy loves and hates!
  The kings of old had doomed thee to the flames,
  Aurelius Emrys would have scourged thee dead,
  And Uther slit thy tongue:  but get thee hence--
  Lest that rough humour of the kings of old
  Return upon me!  Thou that art her kin,
  Go likewise; lay him low and slay him not,
  But bring him here, that I may judge the right,
  According to the justice of the King:
  Then, be he guilty, by that deathless King
  Who lived and died for men, the man shall die.'

     Then came in hall the messenger of Mark,
  A name of evil savour in the land,
  The Cornish king.  In either hand he bore
  What dazzled all, and shone far-off as shines
  A field of charlock in the sudden sun
  Between two showers, a cloth of palest gold,
  Which down he laid before the throne, and knelt,
  Delivering, that his lord, the vassal king,
  Was even upon his way to Camelot;
  For having heard that Arthur of his grace
  Had made his goodly cousin, Tristram, knight,
  And, for himself was of the greater state,
  Being a king, he trusted his liege-lord
  Would yield him this large honour all the more;
  So prayed him well to accept this cloth of gold,
  In token of true heart and fealty.

     Then Arthur cried to rend the cloth, to rend
  In pieces, and so cast it on the hearth.
  An oak-tree smouldered there.  'The goodly knight!
  What! shall the shield of Mark stand among these?'
  For, midway down the side of that long hall
  A stately pile,--whereof along the front,
  Some blazoned, some but carven, and some blank,
  There ran a treble range of stony shields,--
  Rose, and high-arching overbrowed the hearth.
  And under every shield a knight was named:
  For this was Arthur's custom in his hall;
  When some good knight had done one noble deed,
  His arms were carven only; but if twain
  His arms were blazoned also; but if none,
  The shield was blank and bare without a sign
  Saving the name beneath; and Gareth saw
  The shield of Gawain blazoned rich and bright,
  And Modred's blank as death; and Arthur cried
  To rend the cloth and cast it on the hearth.

     'More like are we to reave him of his crown
  Than make him knight because men call him king.
  The kings we found, ye know we stayed their hands
  From war among themselves, but left them kings;
  Of whom were any bounteous, merciful,
  Truth-speaking, brave, good livers, them we enrolled
  Among us, and they sit within our hall.
  But as Mark hath tarnished the great name of king,
  As Mark would sully the low state of churl:
  And, seeing he hath sent us cloth of gold,
  Return, and meet, and hold him from our eyes,
  Lest we should lap him up in cloth of lead,
  Silenced for ever--craven--a man of plots,
  Craft, poisonous counsels, wayside ambushings--
  No fault of thine:  let Kay the seneschal
  Look to thy wants, and send thee satisfied--
  Accursed, who strikes nor lets the hand be seen!'

     And many another suppliant crying came
  With noise of ravage wrought by beast and man,
  And evermore a knight would ride away.

     Last, Gareth leaning both hands heavily
  Down on the shoulders of the twain, his men,
  Approached between them toward the King, and asked,
  'A boon, Sir King (his voice was all ashamed),
  For see ye not how weak and hungerworn
  I seem--leaning on these? grant me to serve
  For meat and drink among thy kitchen-knaves
  A twelvemonth and a day, nor seek my name.
  Hereafter I will fight.'

                          To him the King,
  'A goodly youth and worth a goodlier boon!
  But so thou wilt no goodlier, then must Kay,
  The master of the meats and drinks, be thine.'

     He rose and past; then Kay, a man of mien
  Wan-sallow as the plant that feels itself
  Root-bitten by white lichen,

                              'Lo ye now!
  This fellow hath broken from some Abbey, where,
  God wot, he had not beef and brewis enow,
  However that might chance! but an he work,
  Like any pigeon will I cram his crop,
  And sleeker shall he shine than any hog.'

     Then Lancelot standing near, 'Sir Seneschal,
  Sleuth-hound thou knowest, and gray, and all the hounds;
  A horse thou knowest, a man thou dost not know:
  Broad brows and fair, a fluent hair and fine,
  High nose, a nostril large and fine, and hands
  Large, fair and fine!--Some young lad's mystery--
  But, or from sheepcot or king's hall, the boy
  Is noble-natured.  Treat him with all grace,
  Lest he should come to shame thy judging of him.'

     Then Kay, 'What murmurest thou of mystery?
  Think ye this fellow will poison the King's dish?
  Nay, for he spake too fool-like:  mystery!
  Tut, an the lad were noble, he had asked
  For horse and armour:  fair and fine, forsooth!
  Sir Fine-face, Sir Fair-hands? but see thou to it
  That thine own fineness, Lancelot, some fine day
  Undo thee not--and leave my man to me.'

     So Gareth all for glory underwent
  The sooty yoke of kitchen-vassalage;
  Ate with young lads his portion by the door,
  And couched at night with grimy kitchen-knaves.
  And Lancelot ever spake him pleasantly,
  But Kay the seneschal, who loved him not,
  Would hustle and harry him, and labour him
  Beyond his comrade of the hearth, and set
  To turn the broach, draw water, or hew wood,
  Or grosser tasks; and Gareth bowed himself
  With all obedience to the King, and wrought
  All kind of service with a noble ease
  That graced the lowliest act in doing it.
  And when the thralls had talk among themselves,
  And one would praise the love that linkt the King
  And Lancelot--how the King had saved his life
  In battle twice, and Lancelot once the King's--
  For Lancelot was the first in Tournament,
  But Arthur mightiest on the battle-field--
  Gareth was glad.  Or if some other told,
  How once the wandering forester at dawn,
  Far over the blue tarns and hazy seas,
  On Caer-Eryri's highest found the King,
  A naked babe, of whom the Prophet spake,
  'He passes to the Isle Avilion,
  He passes and is healed and cannot die'--
  Gareth was glad.  But if their talk were foul,
  Then would he whistle rapid as any lark,
  Or carol some old roundelay, and so loud
  That first they mocked, but, after, reverenced him.
  Or Gareth telling some prodigious tale
  Of knights, who sliced a red life-bubbling way
  Through twenty folds of twisted dragon, held
  All in a gap-mouthed circle his good mates
  Lying or sitting round him, idle hands,
  Charmed; till Sir Kay, the seneschal, would come
  Blustering upon them, like a sudden wind
  Among dead leaves, and drive them all apart.
  Or when the thralls had sport among themselves,
  So there were any trial of mastery,
  He, by two yards in casting bar or stone
  Was counted best; and if there chanced a joust,
  So that Sir Kay nodded him leave to go,
  Would hurry thither, and when he saw the knights
  Clash like the coming and retiring wave,
  And the spear spring, and good horse reel, the boy
  Was half beyond himself for ecstasy.

     So for a month he wrought among the thralls;
  But in the weeks that followed, the good Queen,
  Repentant of the word she made him swear,
  And saddening in her childless castle, sent,
  Between the in-crescent and de-crescent moon,
  Arms for her son, and loosed him from his vow.

     This, Gareth hearing from a squire of Lot
  With whom he used to play at tourney once,
  When both were children, and in lonely haunts
  Would scratch a ragged oval on the sand,
  And each at either dash from either end--
  Shame never made girl redder than Gareth joy.
  He laughed; he sprang.  'Out of the smoke, at once
  I leap from Satan's foot to Peter's knee--
  These news be mine, none other's--nay, the King's--
  Descend into the city:' whereon he sought
  The King alone, and found, and told him all.

     'I have staggered thy strong Gawain in a tilt
  For pastime; yea, he said it:  joust can I.
  Make me thy knight--in secret! let my name
  Be hidden, and give me the first quest, I spring
  Like flame from ashes.'

                         Here the King's calm eye
  Fell on, and checked, and made him flush, and bow
  Lowly, to kiss his hand, who answered him,
  'Son, the good mother let me know thee here,
  And sent her wish that I would yield thee thine.
  Make thee my knight? my knights are sworn to vows
  Of utter hardihood, utter gentleness,
  And, loving, utter faithfulness in love,
  And uttermost obedience to the King.'

     Then Gareth, lightly springing from his knees,
  'My King, for hardihood I can promise thee.
  For uttermost obedience make demand
  Of whom ye gave me to, the Seneschal,
  No mellow master of the meats and drinks!
  And as for love, God wot, I love not yet,
  But love I shall, God willing.'

                                 And the King
  'Make thee my knight in secret? yea, but he,
  Our noblest brother, and our truest man,
  And one with me in all, he needs must know.'

     'Let Lancelot know, my King, let Lancelot know,
  Thy noblest and thy truest!'

                              And the King--
  'But wherefore would ye men should wonder at you?
  Nay, rather for the sake of me, their King,
  And the deed's sake my knighthood do the deed,
  Than to be noised of.'

                        Merrily Gareth asked,
  'Have I not earned my cake in baking of it?
  Let be my name until I make my name!
  My deeds will speak:  it is but for a day.'
  So with a kindly hand on Gareth's arm
  Smiled the great King, and half-unwillingly
  Loving his lusty youthhood yielded to him.
  Then, after summoning Lancelot privily,
  'I have given him the first quest:  he is not proven.
  Look therefore when he calls for this in hall,
  Thou get to horse and follow him far away.
  Cover the lions on thy shield, and see
  Far as thou mayest, he be nor ta'en nor slain.'

     Then that same day there past into the hall
  A damsel of high lineage, and a brow
  May-blossom, and a cheek of apple-blossom,
  Hawk-eyes; and lightly was her slender nose
  Tip-tilted like the petal of a flower;
  She into hall past with her page and cried,

     'O King, for thou hast driven the foe without,
  See to the foe within! bridge, ford, beset
  By bandits, everyone that owns a tower
  The Lord for half a league.  Why sit ye there?
  Rest would I not, Sir King, an I were king,
  Till even the lonest hold were all as free
  From cursed bloodshed, as thine altar-cloth
  From that best blood it is a sin to spill.'

     'Comfort thyself,' said Arthur.  'I nor mine
  Rest:  so my knighthood keep the vows they swore,
  The wastest moorland of our realm shall be
  Safe, damsel, as the centre of this hall.
  What is thy name? thy need?'

                              'My name?' she said--
  'Lynette my name; noble; my need, a knight
  To combat for my sister, Lyonors,
  A lady of high lineage, of great lands,
  And comely, yea, and comelier than myself.
  She lives in Castle Perilous:  a river
  Runs in three loops about her living-place;
  And o'er it are three passings, and three knights
  Defend the passings, brethren, and a fourth
  And of that four the mightiest, holds her stayed
  In her own castle, and so besieges her
  To break her will, and make her wed with him:
  And but delays his purport till thou send
  To do the battle with him, thy chief man
  Sir Lancelot whom he trusts to overthrow,
  Then wed, with glory:  but she will not wed
  Save whom she loveth, or a holy life.
  Now therefore have I come for Lancelot.'

     Then Arthur mindful of Sir Gareth asked,
  'Damsel, ye know this Order lives to crush
  All wrongers of the Realm.  But say, these four,
  Who be they?  What the fashion of the men?'

     'They be of foolish fashion, O Sir King,
  The fashion of that old knight-errantry
  Who ride abroad, and do but what they will;
  Courteous or bestial from the moment, such
  As have nor law nor king; and three of these
  Proud in their fantasy call themselves the Day,
  Morning-Star, and Noon-Sun, and Evening-Star,
  Being strong fools; and never a whit more wise
  The fourth, who alway rideth armed in black,
  A huge man-beast of boundless savagery.
  He names himself the Night and oftener Death,
  And wears a helmet mounted with a skull,
  And bears a skeleton figured on his arms,
  To show that who may slay or scape the three,
  Slain by himself, shall enter endless night.
  And all these four be fools, but mighty men,
  And therefore am I come for Lancelot.'

     Hereat Sir Gareth called from where he rose,
  A head with kindling eyes above the throng,
  'A boon, Sir King--this quest!' then--for he marked
  Kay near him groaning like a wounded bull--
  'Yea, King, thou knowest thy kitchen-knave am I,
  And mighty through thy meats and drinks am I,
  And I can topple over a hundred such.
  Thy promise, King,' and Arthur glancing at him,
  Brought down a momentary brow.  'Rough, sudden,
  And pardonable, worthy to be knight--
  Go therefore,' and all hearers were amazed.

     But on the damsel's forehead shame, pride, wrath
  Slew the May-white:  she lifted either arm,
  'Fie on thee, King! I asked for thy chief knight,
  And thou hast given me but a kitchen-knave.'
  Then ere a man in hall could stay her, turned,
  Fled down the lane of access to the King,
  Took horse, descended the slope street, and past
  The weird white gate, and paused without, beside
  The field of tourney, murmuring 'kitchen-knave.'

     Now two great entries opened from the hall,
  At one end one, that gave upon a range
  Of level pavement where the King would pace
  At sunrise, gazing over plain and wood;
  And down from this a lordly stairway sloped
  Till lost in blowing trees and tops of towers;
  And out by this main doorway past the King.
  But one was counter to the hearth, and rose
  High that the highest-crested helm could ride
  Therethrough nor graze:  and by this entry fled
  The damsel in her wrath, and on to this
  Sir Gareth strode, and saw without the door
  King Arthur's gift, the worth of half a town,
  A warhorse of the best, and near it stood
  The two that out of north had followed him:
  This bare a maiden shield, a casque; that held
  The horse, the spear; whereat Sir Gareth loosed
  A cloak that dropt from collar-bone to heel,
  A cloth of roughest web, and cast it down,
  And from it like a fuel-smothered fire,
  That lookt half-dead, brake bright, and flashed as those
  Dull-coated things, that making slide apart
  Their dusk wing-cases, all beneath there burns
  A jewelled harness, ere they pass and fly.
  So Gareth ere he parted flashed in arms.
  Then as he donned the helm, and took the shield
  And mounted horse and graspt a spear, of grain
  Storm-strengthened on a windy site, and tipt
  With trenchant steel, around him slowly prest
  The people, while from out of kitchen came
  The thralls in throng, and seeing who had worked
  Lustier than any, and whom they could but love,
  Mounted in arms, threw up their caps and cried,
  'God bless the King, and all his fellowship!'
  And on through lanes of shouting Gareth rode
  Down the slope street, and past without the gate.

     So Gareth past with joy; but as the cur
  Pluckt from the cur he fights with, ere his cause
  Be cooled by fighting, follows, being named,
  His owner, but remembers all, and growls
  Remembering, so Sir Kay beside the door
  Muttered in scorn of Gareth whom he used
  To harry and hustle.

                      'Bound upon a quest
  With horse and arms--the King hath past his time--
  My scullion knave!  Thralls to your work again,
  For an your fire be low ye kindle mine!
  Will there be dawn in West and eve in East?
  Begone!--my knave!--belike and like enow
  Some old head-blow not heeded in his youth
  So shook his wits they wander in his prime--
  Crazed!  How the villain lifted up his voice,
  Nor shamed to bawl himself a kitchen-knave.
  Tut:  he was tame and meek enow with me,
  Till peacocked up with Lancelot's noticing.
  Well--I will after my loud knave, and learn
  Whether he know me for his master yet.
  Out of the smoke he came, and so my lance
  Hold, by God's grace, he shall into the mire--
  Thence, if the King awaken from his craze,
  Into the smoke again.'

                        But Lancelot said,
  'Kay, wherefore wilt thou go against the King,
  For that did never he whereon ye rail,
  But ever meekly served the King in thee?
  Abide:  take counsel; for this lad is great
  And lusty, and knowing both of lance and sword.'
  'Tut, tell not me,' said Kay, 'ye are overfine
  To mar stout knaves with foolish courtesies:'
  Then mounted, on through silent faces rode
  Down the slope city, and out beyond the gate.

     But by the field of tourney lingering yet
  Muttered the damsel, 'Wherefore did the King
  Scorn me? for, were Sir Lancelot lackt, at least
  He might have yielded to me one of those
  Who tilt for lady's love and glory here,
  Rather than--O sweet heaven!  O fie upon him--
  His kitchen-knave.'

                     To whom Sir Gareth drew
  (And there were none but few goodlier than he)
  Shining in arms, 'Damsel, the quest is mine.
  Lead, and I follow.'  She thereat, as one
  That smells a foul-fleshed agaric in the holt,
  And deems it carrion of some woodland thing,
  Or shrew, or weasel, nipt her slender nose
  With petulant thumb and finger, shrilling, 'Hence!
  Avoid, thou smellest all of kitchen-grease.
  And look who comes behind,' for there was Kay.
  'Knowest thou not me? thy master? I am Kay.
  We lack thee by the hearth.'

                              And Gareth to him,
  'Master no more! too well I know thee, ay--
  The most ungentle knight in Arthur's hall.'
  'Have at thee then,' said Kay:  they shocked, and Kay
  Fell shoulder-slipt, and Gareth cried again,
  'Lead, and I follow,' and fast away she fled.

