Extend the thought a little.  Things that seem to us most solid are
equally mobile.  An iron wire seems solid.  It is so; some parts much
more so than others.  The surface that has been in closest contact with
the die as the wire was drawn through, reducing its size by one half,
perhaps, is vastly more dense than the inner parts that have not been
so condensed.  File away one tenth of a wire, taking it all from the
surface, and you weaken the tensile strength of the wire one half.

But, dense and solid as this iron is, its particles are as mobile
within certain limits as the particles of air.  An electric message
sent through a mile of wire is not anything transmitted; matter is not
transferred, but the particles are set to dancing in wavy motion from
end to end.  Particles are leaping within ordered limits and according
to regular laws as really as the clouds swirl and the air trembles into
song through the throat of a singer.  When a wire is made sensitive by
electricity the breath of a child can make it vibrate from end to end,
ensouled with the child's laughter or fancies.  Nay, more, and far more
wonderful, the wire will be sensitive to the number of vibrations of a
certain note of music, and no receiver at the other end will gather up
its sensitive tremblings unless it is pitched to the keynote of the
vibrations sent.  In this way eight sets of vibrations have been sent
on one wire both ways at the same time, and no set of signals has in
any way interfered with the completeness and audibility of the rest.
Sixteen sets of waltzes were being performed at one and the same time
by the particles of one wire without confusion.  Because the air is
transmitting the notes of an organ from the loft to the opposite end of
the church, it is not incapable of bringing the sound of a voice in an
opposite direction to the organist from the other end of the church.

The extreme mobility of steel is seen when the red-hot metal is plunged
into water.  Instantly every particle takes a new position, making it a
hundredfold more hard than before it was heated.  But these particles
of transferred steel are still mobile.   A man's razor does not cut
smoothly.  It is dull, or has a ragged edge that is more inclined to
draw tears than cut hairs.  He draws the razor over the tender palm of
his hand a few times, rearranges the particles of the edge and builds
them out into a sharper form.  Then the razor returns to the lip with
the dainty touch of a kiss instead of a saw.  Or the tearful man dips
the razor in hot water and the particles run out to make a wider blade
and, of course, a thinner, sharper edge.  Drop the tire of a wagon
wheel into a circular fire.  As the heat increases each particle says
to its neighbor, "Please stand a little further off; this more than
July heat is uncomfortable."  So the close friends stand a little
further apart, lengthening the tire an inch or two.  Then, being taken
out of the fire and put on the wheel and cooled, the particles snuggle
up together again, holding the wheel with a grip of cold iron.  Mobile
and loose, with plenty of room to play, as the particles have, neither
wire nor tire loses its tensile strength.  They hold together, whether
arms are locked around each other's waist, or hand clasps hand in
farther reach.  What change has come to iron when it has been made red
or white hot?  Its particles have simply been mobilized.  It differs
from cold iron as an army in barracks and forts differs from an army
mobilized.  Nothing has been added but movement.  There is no caloric
substance.  Heat is a mode of motion.  The particles of iron have been
made to vibrate among themselves.  When the rapidity of movement
reaches four hundred and sixty millions of millions of vibrations per
second it so affects the eye that we say it is red-hot.  When other
systems of vibration have been added for yellow, etc., up to seven
hundred and thirty millions of millions for the violet, and all
continue in full play, the eye perceives what we call white heat.  It
is a simple illustration of the readiness of seeming solids to vibrate
with almost infinite swiftness.

I have been to-day in what is to me a kind of heaven below--the
workshop of my much-loved friend, John A. Brashear, in Allegheny, Pa.
He easily makes and measures things to one four-hundred-thousandth of
an inch of accuracy.  I put my hand for a few seconds on a great piece
of glass three inches thick.  The human heat raised a lump detectable
by his measurements.  We were testing a piece of glass half an inch
thick; and five inches in diameter.  I put my two thumbnails at the two
sides as it rested on its bed, and could see at once that I had
compressed the glass to a shorter diameter.  We twisted it in so many
ways that I said, "That is a piece of glass putty."  And yet it was the
firmest texture possible to secure.  Great lenses are so sensitive that
one cannot go near them without throwing them discernibly out of shape.
It were easy to show that there is no solid earth nor immovable
mountains.  I came away saying to my friend, "I am glad God lets you
into so much of his finest thinking."  He is a mechanic, not a
theologian.  This foremost man in the world in his fine department was
lately but a "greasy mechanic," an engineer in a rolling mill.

But for elasticity and mobility nothing approaches the celestial ether.
Its vibrations reach into millions of millions per second, and its
wave-lengths for extreme red light are only .0000266 of an inch long,
and for extreme violet still less--.0000167 of an inch.

It is easier molding hot iron than cold, mobile things than immobile.
This world has been made elastic, ready to take new forms.  New
creations are easy, for man, even--much more so for God.  Of angels,
Milton says:

    "Thousands at his bidding speed,
  And post o'er land and ocean without rest."

No less is it true of atoms.  In him all things live and move.  Such
intense activities could not be without an infinite God immanent in
matter.


THE NEXT WORLD TO CONQUER

Man's next realm of conquest is the celestial ether.  It has higher
powers, greater intensities, and quicker activities than any realm he
has yet attempted.

When the emissory or corpuscular theory of light had to be abandoned a
medium for light's interplay between worlds had to be conceived.  The
existence of an all-pervasive medium called the luminiferous ether was
launched as a theory.  Its reality has been so far demonstrated that
but very few doubters remain.

What facts of its conditions and powers can be known?  It differs
almost totally from our conceptions of matter.  Of the eighteen
necessary properties of matter perhaps only one, extension, can be
predicated of it.  It is unlimited, all-pervasive; even where worlds
are non-attractive, does not accumulate about suns or other bodies; has
no structure, chemical relations, nor inertia; is not heatable, and is
not cognizable by any of our present senses.  Does it not take us one
step toward an apprehension of the revealed condition of spirit?

Recall its actual activities.  Two hundred and fifty-eight vibrations
of air per second produce on the ear the sensation we call _do_, or _C_
of the soprano scale; five hundred and sixteen give the upper _C_, or
an octave above.  So the sound runs up in air till, above, say,
thirty-five thousand vibrations per second, there is plenty of sound
inaudible to our ears.  But not inaudible to finer ears.  To them the
morning stars sing together in mighty chorus:

  "Forever singing as they shine,
  'The hand that made us is divine.'"

Electricity has as great a variety of vibrations as sound.  Since some
kinds of electricity do not readily pass through space devoid of air,
though light and heat do, it seems likely that some of the lower
intensities and slower vibrations of electricity are not in ether but
in air.  Certainly some of the higher intensities are in ether.
Between two hundred and four hundred millions of millions of vibrations
of ether per second are the different sorts of heat.  Between four
hundred and eight hundred vibrations are the different colors of light.
Beyond eight hundred vibrations there is plenty of light, invisible to
our eyes, known as chemical rays and probably the Roentgen rays.
Beyond these are there vibrations for thought-transference?  Who
knoweth?

These familiar facts are called up to show the almost infinite
capacities and intensities of the ether.  Matter is more forceful, as
it is less dense.  Rock is solid, and has little force except obstinate
resistance.  Steam is rarer and more forceful.  Gases suddenly born of
dynamite touched by fire in the rock under a mountain have the
tremendous pressure of eighty thousand pounds to the square inch.
Ether is so rare that its density, compared with water, is represented
by a decimal fraction with twenty-seven ciphers before it.

When the worlds navigate this sea, do they plow through it as a ship
through the waves, forcing them aside, or as a sieve letting the water
through it?  Doubtless the sieve is the better symbol.  Certainly the
vibrations flow through solid glass and most solid diamond.  To be
sure, they are a little hampered by the solid substance.  The speed of
light is reduced from one hundred and eighty thousand miles a second in
space to one hundred and twenty thousand in glass.  If ether can so
readily go through such solids, no wonder that a spirit body could
appear to the disciples, "the doors being shut."

Marvelous discoveries in the capacities of ether have been made lately.
In 1842 Joseph Henry found that electric waves in the top of his house
provoked action in a wire circuit in the cellar, through two floors and
ceilings, without wire connections.  More than twenty years ago
Professor Loomis, of the United States coast survey, telegraphed twenty
miles between mountains by electric impulses sent from kites.  Last
year Mr. Preece, the cable being broken, sent, without wires, one
hundred and fifty-six messages between the mainland and the island of
Mull, a distance of four and a half miles.  Marconi, an Italian, has
sent recognizable signals through seven or eight thick walls of the
London post-office, and three fourths of a mile through a hill.
Jagadis Chunder Bose, of India, has fired a pistol by an electric
vibration seventy-five feet away and through more than four feet of
masonry.  Since brick does not elastically vibrate to such
infinitesimal impulses as electric waves, ether must.  It has already
been proven that one can telegraph to a flying train from the overhead
wires.  Ether is a far better medium of transmission than iron.  A wire
will now carry eight messages each way, at the same time, without
interference.  What will not the more facile ether do?

Such are some of the first vague suggestions of a realm of power and
knowledge not yet explored.  They are mere auroral hints of a new dawn.
The full day is yet to shine.

Like timid children, we have peered into the schoolhouse--afraid of the
unknown master.  If we will but enter we shall find that the Master is
our Father, and that he has fitted up this house, out of his own
infinite wisdom, skill, and love, that we may be like him in wisdom and
power as well as in love.


OUR ENJOYMENT OF NATURE'S FORCES

We are a fighting race; not because we enjoy fights, but we enjoy the
exercise of force.  In early times when we knew of no forces to handle
but our own, and no object to exercise them on but our fellow-men,
there were feuds, tyrannies, wars, and general desolation.  In the
Thirty Years' War the population of Germany was starved and murdered
down from sixteen millions to less than five millions.

But since we have found field, room, and ample verge for the play of
our forces in material realms, and have acquired mastery of the superb
forces of nature, we have come to an era of peace.  We can now use our
forces and those of nature with as real a sense of dominion and mastery
on material things, resulting in comfort, as formerly on our
fellow-men, resulting in ruin.  We now devote to the conquest of nature
what we once devoted to the conquest of men.  There is a fascination in
looking on force and its results.  Some men never stand in the presence
of an engine in full play without a feeling of reverence, as if they
stood in the presence of God--and they do.

The turning to these forces is a characteristic of our age that makes
it an age of adventure and discovery.  The heart of equatorial Africa
has been explored, and soon the poles will hold no undiscovered secrets.

Among the great monuments of power the mountains stand supreme.  All
the cohesions, chemical affinities, affections of metals, liquids, and
gases are in full play, and the measureless power of gravitation.  And
yet higher forces have chasmed, veined, infiltrated, disintegrated,
molded, bent the rocky strata like sheets of paper, and lifted the
whole mass miles in air as if it were a mere bubble of gas.

The study of these powers is one of the fascinations of our time.  Let
me ask you to enjoy with me several of the greatest manifestations of
force on this world of ours.


THE MONTE ROSA

Many of us in America know little of one of the great subjects of
thought and endeavor in Europe.  We are occasionally surprised by
hearing that such a man fell into a crevasse, or that four men were
killed on the Matterhorn, or five on the Lyskamm, and others elsewhere,
and we wonder why they went there.  The Alps are a great object of
interest to all Europe.  I have now before me a catalogue of 1,478
works on the Alps for sale by one bookseller.  It seems incredible.  In
this list are over a dozen volumes describing different ascents of a
single mountain, and that not the most difficult.  There are
publications of learned societies on geology, entomology, paleontology,
botany, and one volume of _Philosophical and Religious Walks about Mont
Blanc_.  The geology of the Alps is a most perplexing problem.  The
summit of the Jungfrau, for example, consists of gneiss granite, but
two masses of Jura limestone have been thrust into it, and their ends
folded over.

It is the habit, of the Germans especially, to send students into the
Alps with a case for flowers, a net for butterflies, and a box for
bugs.  Every rod is a schoolhouse.  They speak of the "snow mountains"
with ardent affection.  Every Englishman, having no mountains at home,
speaks and feels as if he owned the Alps.  He, however, cares less for
their flowers, bugs, and butterflies than for their qualities as a
gymnasium and a measure of his physical ability.  The name of every
mountain or pass he has climbed is duly burnt into his Alpenstock, and
the said stock, well burnt over, is his pride in travel and a grand
testimonial of his ability at home.

There are numerous Alpine clubs in England, France, and Italy.  In the
grand exhibition of the nation at Milan the Alpine clubs have one of
the most interesting exhibits.  This general interest in the Alps is a
testimony to man's admiration of the grandest work of God within reach,
and to his continued devotion to physical hardihood in the midst of the
enervating influences of civilization.  There is one place in the world
devoted by divine decree to pure air.  You are obliged to use it.
Toiling up these steeps the breathing quickens fourfold, till every
particle of the blood has been bathed again and again in the perfect
air.  Tyndall records that he once staggered out of the murks and
disease of London, fearing that his lifework was done.  He crawled out
of the hotel on the Bell Alp and, feeling new life, breasted the
mountain, hour after hour, till every acrid humor had oozed away, and
every part of his body had become so renewed that he was well from that
time.  In such a sanitarium, school of every department of knowledge,
training-place for hardihood, and monument of Nature's grandest work,
man does well to be interested.

You want to ascend these mountains?  Come to Zermatt.  With a wand ten
miles long you can touch twenty snow-peaks.  Europe has but one higher.
Twenty glaciers cling to the mountain sides and send their torrents
into the little green valley.  Try yourself on Monte Rosa, more
difficult to ascend than Mont Blanc; try the Matterhorn, vastly more
difficult than either or both.  A plumbline dropped from the summit of
Monte Rosa through the mountain would be seven miles from Zermatt.  You
first have your feet shod with a preparation of nearly one hundred
double-pointed hobnails driven into the heels and soles.  In the
afternoon you go up three thousand one hundred and sixteen feet to the
Riffelhouse.  It is equal to going up three hundred flights of stairs
of ten feet each; that is, you go up three hundred stories of your
house--only there are no stairs, and the path is on the outside of the
house.  This takes three hours--an hour to each hundred stories; after
the custom of the hotels of this country, you find that you have
reached the first floor.  The next day you go up and down the Görner
Grat, equal to one hundred and seventy more stories, for practice and a
view unequaled in Europe.  Ordering the guide to be ready and the
porter to call you at one o'clock, you lie down to dream of the
glorious revelations of the morrow.

The porter's rap came unexpectedly soon, and in response to the
question, "What is the weather?" he said, "Not utterly bad."  There is
plenty of starlight; there had been through the night plenty of live
thunder leaping among the rattling crags, some of it very interestingly
near.  We rose; there were three parties ready to make the ascent.  The
lightning still glimmered behind the Matterhorn and the Weisshorn, and
the sound of the tumbling cataracts was ominously distinct.  Was the
storm over?  The guides would give no opinion.  It was their interest
to go, it was ours to go only in good weather.  By three o'clock I
noticed that the pointer on the aneroid barometer, that instrument that
has a kind of spiritual fineness of feeling, had moved a tenth of an
inch upward.  I gave the order to start.  The other parties said, "Good
for your pluck!  _Bon voyage, gute reise_," and went to bed.  In an
hour we had ascended one thousand feet and down again to the glacier.
The sky was brilliant.  Hopes were high.  The glacier with its vast
medial moraines, shoving along rocks from twenty to fifty feet long,
was crossed in the dawn.  The sun rose clear, touching the snow-peaks
with glory, and we shouted victory.  But in a moment the sun was
clouded, and so were we.  Soon it came out again, and continued clear.
But the guide said, "Only the good God knows if we shall have clear
weather."  Men get pious amid perils.  I thought of the aneroid, and
felt that the good God had confided his knowledge to one of his
servants.

Leaving the glacier, we came to the real mountain.  Six hours and a
half will put one on the top, but he ought to take eight.  I have no
fondness for men who come to the Alps to see how quickly they can do
the ascents.  They simply proclaim that their object is not to see and
enjoy, but to boast.  We go up the lateral moraine, a huge ridge fifty
feet high, with rocks in it ten feet square turned by the mighty plow
of ice below.  We scramble up the rocks of the mountain.  Hour after
hour we toil upward.  At length we come to the snow-slopes, and are all
four roped together.  There are great crevasses, fifty or a hundred
feet deep, with slight bridges of snow over them.  If a man drops in
the rest must pull him out.  Being heavier than any other man of the
party I thrust a leg through one snow-bridge, but I had just fixed my
ice ax in the firm abutment and was saved the inconvenience and delay
of dangling by a rope in a chasm.  The beauty of these cold blue ice
vaults cannot be described.  They are often fringed with icicles.  In
one place they had formed from an overhanging shelf, reached the
bottom, and then the shelf had melted away, leaving the icicles in an
apparently reversed condition.  We passed one place where vast masses
of ice had rolled down from above, and we saw how a breath might start
a new avalanche.  We were up in one of nature's grandest workshops.

How the view widened!  How the fleeting cloud and sunshine heightened
the effect in the valley below!  The glorious air made us know what the
man meant who every morning thanked God that he was alive.  Some have
little occasion to be thankful in that respect.

Here we learned the use of a guide.  Having carefully chosen him, by
testimony of persons having experience, we were to follow him; not only
generally, but step by step.  Put each foot in his track.  He had
trodden the snow to firmness.  But being heavier than he it often gave
way under my pressure.  One such slump and recovery takes more strength
than ten regular steps.  Not so in following the Guide to the fairer
and greater heights of the next world.  He who carried this world and
its burden of sin on his heart trod the quicksands of time into such
firmness that no man walking in his steps, however great his sins, ever
breaks down the track.  And just so in that upward way, one fall and
recovery takes more strength than ten rising steps.

Meanwhile, what of the weather?  Uncertainty.  Avalanches thundered
from the Breithorn and Lyskamm, telling of a penetrative moisture in
the air.  The Matterhorn refused to take in its signal flags of storm.
Still the sun shone clear.  We had put in six of the eight hours' work
of ascent when snow began to fall.  Soon it was too thick to see far.
We came to a chasm that looked vast in the deception of the storm.  It
was only twenty feet wide.  Getting round this the storm deepened till
we could scarcely see one another.  There was no mountain, no sky.  We
halted of necessity.  The guide said, "Go back."  I said, "Wait."  We
waited in wind, hail, and snow till all vestige of the track by which
we had come--our only guide back if the storm continued--was lost
except the holes made by the Alpenstocks.  The snow drifted over, and
did not fill these so quickly.

Not knowing but that the storm might last two days, as is frequently
the case, I reluctantly gave the order to go down.  In an hour we got
below the storm.  The valley into which we looked was full of brightest
sunshine; the mountain above us looked like a cowled monk.  In another
hour the whole sky was perfectly clear.  O that I had kept my faith in
my aneroid!  Had I held to the faith that started me in the
morning--endured the storm, not wavered at suggestions of peril, defied
apparent knowledge of local guides--and then been able to surmount the
difficulty of the new-fallen snow, I should have been favored with such
a view as is not enjoyed once in ten years; for men cannot go up all
the way in storm, nor soon enough after to get all the benefit of the
cleared air.  Better things were prepared for me than I knew;
indications of them offered to my faith; they were firmly grasped, and
held almost long enough for realization, and then let go in an hour of
darkness and storm.

I reached the Riffelhouse after eleven hours' struggle with rocks and
softened snow, and said to the guide, "To-morrow I start for the
Matterhorn."  To do this we go down the three hundred stories to
Zermatt.

Every mountain excursion I ever made has been in the highest degree
profitable.  Even this one, though robbed of its hoped-for culmination,
has been one of the richest I have ever enjoyed.


THE MATTERHORN

The Matterhorn is peculiar.  I do not know of another mountain like it
on the earth.  There are such splintered and precipitous spires on the
moon.  How it came to be such I treated of fully in _Sights and
Insights_.  It is approximately a three-sided mountain, fourteen
thousand seven hundred and eighteen feet high, whose sides are so steep
as to be unassailable.  Approach can be made only along the angle at
the junction of the planes.

[Illustration: The Matterhorn.]

It was long supposed to be inaccessible.  Assault after assault was
made on it by the best and most ambitious Alp climbers, but it kept its
virgin height untrodden.  However, in 1864, seven men, almost
unexpectedly, achieved the victory; but in descending four of them were
precipitated, down an almost perpendicular declivity, four thousand
feet.  They had achieved the summit after hundreds of others had
failed.  They had reveled in the upper glories, deposited proof of
their visit, and started to return.  According to law, they were roped
together.  According to custom, in a difficult place all remain still,
holding the rope, except one who carefully moves on.  Croz, the first
guide, was reaching up to take the feet of Mr. Haddow and help him down
to where he stood.  Suddenly Haddow's strength failed, or he slipped
and struck Croz on the shoulders, knocking him off his narrow footing.
They two immediately jerked off Rev. Mr. Hudson.  The three falling
jerked off Lord Francis Douglas.  Four were loose and falling; only
three left on the rocks.  Just then the rope somehow parted, and all
four dropped that great fraction of a mile.  The mountain climber makes
a sad pilgrimage to the graves of three of them in Zermatt; the fourth
probably fell in a crevasse of the glacier at the foot, and may be
brought to the sight of friends in perhaps two score years, when the
river of ice shall have moved down into the valleys where the sun has
power to melt away the ice.  This accident gave the mountain a
reputation for danger to which an occasional death on it since has
added.

Each of these later unfortunate occurrences is attributable to personal
perversity or deficiency.  Peril depends more on the man than on
circumstances.  One is in danger on a wall twenty feet high, another
safe on a precipice of a thousand feet.  No man has a right to peril
his life in mere mountain climbing; that great sacrifice must be
reserved for saving others, or for establishing moral principle.

The morning after coming from Monte Rosa myself and son left Zermatt at
half past seven for the top of the Matterhorn, twelve hours distant,
under the guidance of Peter Knubel, his brother, and Peter Truffer,
three of the best guides for this work in the country.  In an hour the
dwellings of the mountain-loving people are left behind, the tree limit
is passed soon after, the grass cheers us for three hours, when we
enter on the wide desolation of the moraines.  Here is a little chapel.
I entered it as reverently and prayed as earnestly for God's will, not
mine, to be done as I ever did in my life, and I am confident that amid
the unutterable grandeur that succeeded I felt his presence and help as
fully as at any other time.

At ten minutes of two we were roped together and feeling our way
carefully in the cut steps on a glacier so steep that, standing erect,
one could put his hand upon it.  We were on this nearly an hour.  Just
as we left it for the rocks a great noise above, and a little to the
south, attracted attention.  A vast mass of stone had detached itself
from the overhanging cliff at the top, and falling on the steep slope
had broken into a hundred pieces.  These went bounding down the side in
long leaps.  Wherever one struck a cloud of powdered stone leaped into
the air, till the whole mountain side smoked and thundered with the
grand cannonade.  The omen augured to me that the mountain was going to
do its best for our reception and entertainment.  Fortunately these
rock avalanches occur on the steep, unapproachable sides, and not at
the angle where men climb.

How the mountain grew upon us as we clung to its sides!  When the great
objects below had changed to littleness the heights above seemed
greater than ever.  At half past four we came to a perpendicular height
of twenty feet, with a slight slope above.  Down this precipice hung a
rope; there was also an occasional projection of an inch or two of
stone for the mailed foot.  At the top, on a little shelf, under
hundreds of feet of overhanging rock, some stones had been built round
and over a little space for passing the night.  The rude cabin occupied
all the width of the shelf, so that passing to its other end there was
not room to walk without holding on by one's hands in the crevices of
the wall.  We were now at home; had taken nine hours to do what could
be done in eight.  What an eyrie in which to sleep!  Below us was a
sheer descent, of a thousand or two feet, to the glacier.  Above us
towered the crest of the mountain, seemingly higher than ever.  The
sharp shadow of the lofty pyramid lengthened toward Monte Rosa.  Italy
lifted up its mountains tipped with sunshine to cheer us.  The Obernese
Alps, beyond the Rhone, answered with numerous torches to light us to
our sleep.  According to prearrangement, at eight o'clock we kindled a
light on our crag to tell our friends in Zermatt that we had
accomplished the first stage of our journey.  They answered instantly
with a cheery blaze, and we lay down to sleep.

When four of us lay together I was so crowded against the wall that I
thought if it should give way I could fall two thousand feet out of bed
without possibility of stopping on the way.  The ice was two feet thick
on the floor, and by reason of the scarcity of bedding I was reminded
of the damp, chilly sheets of some unaired guest-chambers.  I do not
think I slept a moment, but I passed the night in a most happy,
thoughtful, and exultant frame of mind.

At half past three in the morning we were roped together--fifteen feet
of rope between each two men--for the final three or four hours' work.
It is everywhere steep; it is every minute hands and feet on the rocks;
sometimes you cling with fingers, elbows, knees, and feet, and are
tempted to add the nose and chin.  Where it is least steep the guide's
heels are right in your face; when it is precipitous you only see a
line of rope before you.  We make the final pause an hour before the
top.  Here every weight and the fear that so easily besets one must be
laid aside.  No part of the way has seemed so difficult; not even that
just past--when we rounded a shoulder on the ice for sixty feet,
sometimes not over twenty inches wide, on the verge of a precipice four
thousand feet high.  To this day I can see the wrinkled form of that
far-down glacier below, though I took care not to make more than one
glance at it.

The rocks become smoother and steeper, if possible.  A chain or rope
trails from above in four places.  You have good hope that it is well
secured, and wish you were lighter, as you go up hand over hand.  Then
a beautiful slope for hands, knees, and feet for half an hour, and the
top is reached at half past six.

The view is sublime.  Moses on Pisgah could have had no such vision.
He had knowledge added of the future grandeur of his people, but such a
revelation as this tells so clearly what God can do for his people
hereafter that that element of Moses's enjoyment can be perceived, if
not fully appreciated.  All the well-known mountains stand up like
friends to cheer us.  Mont Blanc has the smile of the morning sun to
greet us withal.  Monte Rosa chides us for not partaking of her
prepared visions.  The kingdoms of the world--France, Switzerland,
Italy--are at our feet.  One hundred and twenty snow-peaks flame like
huge altar piles in the morning sun.  The exhilarant air gives ecstasy
to body, the new visions intensity of feeling to soul.  The Old World
has sunk out of sight.  This is Mount Zion, the city of God.  New
Jerusalem has come down out of heaven adorned as a bride for her
husband.  The pavements are like glass mingled with fire.  The gates of
the morning are pearl.  The walls, near or far according to your
thought, are like jasper and sapphire.  The glory of God and of the
Lamb lightens it.

But we must descend, though it is good to be here.  It is even more
difficult and tedious than the ascent.  _Non facilis descensus_.  With
your face to the mountain you have only the present surface and the
effort for that instant.  But when you turn your back on the mountain
the imminent danger appears.  It is not merely ahead, but the sides are
much more dangerous.  On the way down we had more cannonades.  In six
hours we were off the cliffs, and by half past three we had let
ourselves down, inch by inch, to Zermatt, a distance of nine thousand
four hundred feet.

Looking up to the Matterhorn this next morning after the climb, I feel
for it a personal affection.  It has put more pictures of grandeur into
my being than ever entered in such a way before.  It is grand enough to
bear acquaintance.  People who view it from a distance must be
strangers.  It has been, and ever will be, a great example and lofty
monument of my Father's power.  He taketh up the isles as a very little
thing; he toucheth the mountains and they smoke.  The strength of the
hills is his also; and he has made all things for his children, and
waits to do greater things than these.


THE GRAND CANON OF THE COLORADO RIVER

Before me lies a thin bit of red rock, rippled as delicately as a
woman's hair, bearing marks of raindrops that came from the south.  It
was once soft clay.  It was laid down close to the igneous Archaean
rocks when Mother Earth was in her girlhood and water first began to
flow.  More clay flowed over, and all was hardened into rock.  Many
strata, variously colored and composed, were deposited, till our bit of
beauty was buried thousands of feet deep.  The strata were tilted
variously and abraded wondrously, for our earth has been treated very
much as the fair-armed bread-maker treats the lump of dough she doubles
and kneads on the molding board.  Other rocks of a much harder nature,
composed in part of the shells of inexpressible multitudes of Ocean's
infusoria, were laid down from the superincumbent sea.  Still the
delicate ripple marks were preserved.  Nature's vast library was being
formed, and on this scrap of a leaf not a letter was lost.

Beside this stone now lies another of the purest white.  It once flowed
as water impregnated with lime, and clung to the lower side of a rock
now as high above the sea as many a famous mountain.  The water
gradually evaporated, and the lime still hung like tiny drops.  Between
the two stones now so near together was once a perpendicular distance
of more than a mile of impenetrable rock.  How did they ever get
together?  Let us see.

