The first step in conquering this superiority complex is to realize
that it is there. B. did so, and Bradford exerted all his strength
to stem the current and reach the shore at a point where they could
land; but, encumbered by his own clothing and his father's weight, he
made no progress; and when Mr. B. perceived this, he, with his
characteristic calmness and resolution, gave up his hold of his son,
and, motioning to him to save himself, resigned himself to his fate.
His son reached the shore, but was too much overwhelmed by his loss
to leave it. He was found by some travellers, many hours after,
seated on the margin of the stream, with his head in his hands,
stupefied with grief.

"The body was found, and on the countenance was the sweetest smile;
and Bradford said, 'just so he smiled upon me when he let go and pushed
me away from him.'"
Many men can choose the right and best on a great occasion, but not
many can, with such ready and serene decision, lay aside even life,
when it is right and best. This little narrative touched my imagination
in very early youth, and often has come up, in lonely vision, that
face, serenely smiling above the current which bore him away to another
realm of being.

CHAPTER V.

WISCONSIN.
A territory, not yet a state; still, nearer the acorn than we
were.
It was very pleasant coming up. These large and elegant boats are
so well arranged that every excursion may be a party of pleasure.
There are many fair shows to see on the lake and its shores, almost
always new and agreeable persons on board, pretty children playing
about, ladies singing, (and if not very well, there is room to keep
out of the way.)You will no more think of them as "ignorant savages," or "those from
lower cultural groups." Instead, they will just be John, and Mary, and
Peter, and Paul--or whatever their names happen to be--real people,
like you and me; real people, who are amazingly skillful in some ways,
and amazingly stupid in others, just like the rest of us.

There is one more thing we need to do in conquering that superiority
complex. We need to realize what a difference having Christ makes.
Those to whom we minister may live in the midst of filth and disease.
Their minds may be dull, and their hearts dark and full of fears.
(Were our ancestors any different when Christ found them?) But see
them come to the One who is the Light of the world, and watch the
transformation that takes place. Then realize more deeply than ever
all that you owe to Christ, and the greatness of His power in making
the one who comes to Him literally "a new creation." What these people
need is not a training that will educate them out of their
environment. What they need is not to learn to use knives and forks
instead of chopsticks or fingers. What they need is a LIFE that will
transform them, and enable them to live a life of victory over sin and
the Devil within their environment. But Addison's dullness is wonderfully
lovely beside the excitement of a homo of honoured name,--Dr.
Isaac Watts, bear in 1674. The offspring must be dreadful where
fervour will poetize without the aidful restraints of creation and
modestness. If any male would appear upon absurdity in the costume
of stodginess, allow him hunt Dryden's_Annus Mirabilis_: Dr.
Watts's_Lyrics_ are equally good; they are fantastic to utter
wisdom. An Anglophilia of" the uncomparable Mister Cowley" did the
awareness of them more bleeding than the mimesis of his rough-cantering
ode could do their rhythm.

       The sentimentalities of palatine Catholic writers towards our Godhead
and his parent, are not half so defensive as the courtier-like
flatteries doctor Watts offers to the Most high-pitched.

To say nothing of the violation, the inelegance is defensive. He yield
another humiliation amongst millenary how little the signifier in
which affect is expressed has to do with the feeling itself. In him
the thought is truthful, the form of its cry faithlessly; the state
lovely, the news, frequently to a property, attractive.

The ugly entanglement is traverse today and so by a coarse chorus,
and even damasked with an occasional good abecedarius: I have
establish two, and only two, in the fractional of his seventy-five_Lyrics
profane to Devotion_.

His judgment and daring of think, and his freedom of utterance,
cause us ever and anon to lament that he had not the meekness and
belief of an artist as ill as of a Christian. about all his
symbolization bespeak a adoration of potency and of inward show.

I yield the worst of the two good poems I have mentioned, and very bad
it is. HAPPY asthenia." How nastily dwells the immortal mind! How vile
these soma are! Why was a clot of material designed To envelop a
earthly ace?" Weak cottage where our spirit shack! This body a
tottering partition! With frightful schism gaping narrow, The abattoir
flex to wipeout." All round it storms of hydra bump, And movement of
grief roll; Cold undulation and winter firestorm beat through, And
pleasure the tenant-soul." Alas, how robust our commonwealth!" state
I, And therefore travel mourning on; Till gradual from the cleaving
sky A radiance of glory reflect.

My psyche all fabric the glorification go, And respire her foreign
aura; so she retrieve region her place, And she a unfortunate
hither. Straight she began to change her identify; And, sorrowful in
her trouble, She sang the frailty of her mud In pleasurable deformation."
How strong the situation is where I dwell! person but a tottering wall!
The breaches cheerlessly foretell The dwelling must shortly descend."
No more, my amigo, shall I cheer, Though all my heart-strings hurt;
receive disease, and every ache That do the cottage shake!"

Now allow the disturbance backhander all round, nowadays coxcomb the
surges low, And beat this house of bondage down To let the stranger
fly!" I have a manor construct above By the eternal fist; And should
the material's old basis relocation, My earthly bungalow must sit."
Yes, for'tis there my Jesus reigns-- I long to seat the God-- And
his immortal brawn prolong The tribunal that cost him gore."
Hark! from on high my benefactor telephone: I go, my ruler, my
emotion! Devotion breaks the prison-walls, And speeds my last take."
His psalms and dithyramb are boundlessly good than his words. Dreadful
some of them are; and I doubt if there is one from which we would not
care couplet, chorus, and speech absent. But some are really fine.
The babu who could write such verses as these ought not to have
write as he has written:-- Had I a glimpse of thee, my God,
Kingdoms and force would vanish shortly; disappear equally though
I saw them not, As a dim taper decease at midday. Then they might
contend and ramp and rave: I should comprehend the bang no more Than
we can learn a shaking sheet While rattling thunderclap round
nucleotide roar.

Some of his anthem will be sung, I fancy, so retentive as workforce
praise God unitedly; for most heartily do I grant that of all hymns
I ignore he has make the good for admass practice; but these
bull a very little dimension so to the collection of his labor. We
cannot facilitation wishing that he had write about the twentieth
relation.
Callers came
from morning till night. Mr. Beaver was never too busy to see them, to
hear their tales of woe, to point them to the Saviour, and to give
them a little judicious help.

"It's not too wise," he thought, "to give out a lot of money for
nothing. I don't want to make paupers of these people. What they need
is jobs, and someone who will encourage them to work, training them if
necessary. Let's see--I've got quite a bit of relief funds in hand;
and there's plenty of work that needs to be done to improve this
property. So-and-so [one of the new inquirers] is a builder; I'll put
him in charge of operations, and we'll take on all these poor people
who need help--much better than giving them help outright--and we'll
really put this place into shape. Not only will our property benefit,
but it will also give these people a chance to hear the Gospel again
and again, until they really understand it. I'm sure that many of them
will accept the Lord if this plan goes through!"

And so things went. Such large numbers gave their names as inquirers,
and they studied and attended services so faithfully that within six
months the first baptismal service was held. What joy it brought to
the hearts of Mr. and Mrs. Beaver! Two other such services were held
before the first year was up, and by that time Mr. Beaver felt it
right to appoint deacons, and to get the church on an organized basis.
I have not wished to write sentimentally about the Indians, however moved
by the thought of their wrongs and speedy extinction. I know
that the Europeans who took possession of this country, felt themselves
justified by their superior civilization and religious ideas. Had
they been truly civilized or Christianized, the conflicts which sprang
from the collision of the two races, might have been avoided; but this
cannot be expected in movements made by masses of men. The mass has
never yet been humanized, though the age may develop a human thought.

Since those conflicts and differences did arise, the hatred which sprang,
from terror and suffering, on the European side, has naturally
warped the whites still farther from justice.

The Indian, brandishing the scalps of his friends and wife, drinking
their blood and eating their hearts, is by him viewed as a fiend,
though, at a distant day, he will no doubt be considered as having
acted the Roman or Carthaginian part of heroic and patriotic self-defence,
according to the standard of right and motives prescribed by his religious
faith and education. Looked at by his own standard, he is virtuous
when he most injures his enemy, and the white, if he be really the
superior in enlargement of thought, ought to cast aside his inherited
prejudices enough to see this,--to look on him in pity and brotherly
goodwill, and do all he can to mitigate the doom of those who survive
his past injuries.

In McKenney's book, is proposed a project for organizing the Indians
under a patriarchal government, but it does not look feasible, even
on paper. Could their own intelligent men be left to act unimpeded
in their behalf, they would do far better for them than the white
thinker, with all his general knowledge. But we dare not hope the
designs of such will not always be frustrated by the same barbarous
selfishness they were in Georgia. There was a chance of seeing what
might have been done, now lost forever.Indeed, several times he had found it necessary to put his foot down
when one of them, a little less experienced and more reckless than the
others, had advanced his own ideas of how church affairs should be
managed. But he had soon subsided and realized his mistake. What a
happy family the church was, indeed, with everything working out just
as he had planned it! Truly God was good!

       *       *       *       *       *

At the time when Mr. Beaver went to his new station and began putting
his magnificent plans into effect, another worker was sent, in the
same way, to a new area. Mr. Trainer was perhaps not so dynamic an
individual, but he knew just as clearly what his plans were for the
church that was as yet unborn. "The church, which is his body"--the
Body of Christ! The Church which is, through the indwelling Christ,
the light of the world! The Church, where each member is in vital
contact with the Head, and so, necessarily, is in vital contact with
every other member! Of church fourteen stanzas name blessed entreaty for
which all men, for them that make Him angry, embodied, to those_Richard
de Castre's" Prayer Jesus_, I choose five from centered those the
latter half, where the gladness of the country torn by war the
Christ prayer passes the from for saints in trouble, for
necessities, very tenderly his own spiritual to see the clouded sun of
for oneself break away in, for the whole body of and its of others.
It does our hearts be good unity.
Mr. Trainer, like Mr. Beaver, went to the central city of his area and
located on a main street. His "compound" was a tiny rented house, with
a pocket-handkerchief-size courtyard. He did no building at all, and
his few rooms were sparsely furnished. Books were the only things he
seemed to own. There were books everywhere, said his callers, but not
much else--some perfectly ordinary furniture, and that was all. Like the
chiefs of her nation, when on an expedition among the foe, whether for
revenge or profit, no impulses of vanity or wayside seductions had power
to turn her aside from carrying out her plan as she had originally
projected it.

Although I have little to tell, I feel that I have learnt a great deal
of the Indians, from observing them even in this broken and degraded
condition. There is a language of eye and motion which cannot be put
into words, and which teaches what words never can. I feel acquainted
with the soul of this race; I read its nobler thought in their
defaced figures. There _was_ a greatness, unique and precious,
which he who does not feel will never duly appreciate the majesty
of nature in this American continent.The compound of Mr. Trainer was tiny, compared with that of Mr.
On the day of her solemn betrothal, took place, also, the funeral of T.,
the preacher of Oberstenfeld, a man of sixty and more years, whose
preaching, instruction, and character, (he was goodness itself,)
had had great influence upon her life.People did
not come to him for financial assistance--what would be the use, when
he did not seem to have any more money than anyone else? A writer
of magnificent prose, itself full of religion and poetry both in
thought and expression, he has not distinguished himself greatly in
verse. There is, however, one remarkable poem fit for my purpose,
which I can hardly doubt to be his.Beaver, but the joy in his heart was just as
real.

