"I don't doubt it," replied Mr. Scott laughingly, "but I'm afraid
I am almost too old to keep up the pace you set. But I'll tell you
what I am going to do. I am going on an outing some of these days
and I am going to invite you all to go along with me."

"Hurrah!" cried the boys with a will.

"Ready Uncas!" called Don, raising his bugle, "the Scout salute!"

As the room rang with the noise Mr. Scott clapped his hands to his
ears.

"Thanks," he said; "Mrs. Scott sent me up here to see if there was
anything the matter, you were so quiet, but after that I think she
will conclude that you are all right."

"What is that you have there, Rand?" he added as he caught sight
of the coin that Rand had been using to toss up. "Where did you
get it?"

"Those are the ones that we found in the road," replied Rand. "Do
you know what they are?"

"Yes," answered Mr. Scott; "they are a political token issued in
the time of Van Buren during the controversy over the currency. By
the way, I shouldn't be surprised if these were some of the coins
that were stolen out of Judge Taylor's office when it was broken
into."

"Then the robbers must have gone away over that road," mused Rand,
"and that is how they got there."

"That was doubtless the way of it," concluded Jack.

"Ay, but you thought there was some connection with them and Monkey
Rae," reminded Donald.

"Are you sure there isn't?" answered Jack.


CHAPTER XV

PEPPER TAKES THE MESSAGE


When Rand arrived at the great oak, which stood at the fork of
the road on the outskirts of Creston, on the following morning, he
found Pepper impatiently awaiting his arrival.

"I thought you were never coming," grumbled Pepper, when Rand made
his appearance. "I expected to be half way there by this time."

"Plenty of time," said Rand. "How long do you think it will take
you to get there and back?"

"How far is it?"

"Five miles, as the crow flies," returned Rand, "and near six by
the road."

"That's an hour and a half on the road each way and an hour to
stop.  I ought to do it in four hours and a half."

"Then you should be back by dinner time," concluded Rand. "We will
meet you here at 1 o'clock. Which road are you going to take?"

"The upper road," decided Pepper, "it runs through the woods, but
it's by far the shortest way."

With a whistle the boy started off along the thoroughfare at a good
pace. "Look for me at 1 sharp," he called back as he went off.

He had gone perhaps a quarter of a mile on his way when, as he was
passing a small clump of bushes by the side of the road, there was
a rustle behind the bushes, and a voice cried:

"Halt!"

Pepper, however, broke into a run which carried him past the clump,
when again came the command:

"Halt, or I'll shoot!"

The boy hesitated for a moment as to whether he should stop or run,
and as he did so Gerald and Jack came out upon the scene.

"Did we scare you?" asked Gerald.

"No," replied Pepper stoutly, "I thought it was a joke."

"We just wanted to test your courage," said Jack.

"That reminds me--" began Dick, who had now joined the others.

"That it is time for me to be getting along," broke in Pepper.
"Good-by, fellows," starting off again.

"Good luck," called the boys after him.

The road which he was following ran through the woods along the
top of the mountain and was comparatively little traveled, most
persons preferring the lower road which, although longer, was not
near so rough or hilly.

Pepper met but few people on the way, and had gone rather more than
half the distance when, as he was descending the slope of a small
hill, he observed coming down the opposite slope a horse and wagon,
about which there was something familiar.

"That looks like the rig that Monkey Rae was driving the other day,"
he thought, as he looked at it again. "If he is in it, I think I
had better do the disappearance act until he goes by."

Stepping from the road he waited behind a small thicket until the
wagon came nearer, when he saw that it was being driven by the man
who had been with Monkey when they had taken the boat, and that,
following the wagon was a big, ugly-looking, mongrel dog, that was
dashing from one side of the road to the other, interspersed with
little excursions into the woods.

"Gee!" thought Pepper, "I wouldn't want to fall into their hands.
I think it's to the woods for mine," at the same time making his
way as quickly as possible deeper into the underbrush.

"I didn't get out of the way any too soon," he continued to himself,
for on coming to the place where Pepper had left the road the dog
stopped, sniffed at the ground and gave vent to a gruff bark.

"What is it, Tige, old boy?" called the man, stopping his horse.
"Sic 'em!"

With a deep growl the dog started on the boy's trail. Pepper could
hear him crashing his way through the underbrush and ran as fast
as he could, looking about him, as he ran, for a stick or a stone
with which to defend himself, but could see none, and all the time
the dog was coming closer and closer, his growl becoming more and
more menacing. It was nearly upon him, and he imagined that he could
feel its hot breath and expected every moment to feel the snap of
its jaws, when he saw, a little way ahead of him, what looked like
a stout black stick lying upon the ground. The diacritical grade
have been lose. THE MEMORABILIA or Recollections of Socrates
publication I I I have rarely inquire by what statement those who
indicted( 1) Socrates could have carry the Athenians that his
living was justly claim to the attribute.Springing to his feet he made a wild jump
upward and, as luck would have it, caught at the branch of a tree
above his head, and, getting a firm grasp, drew himself up just as
the dog, with its teeth snapping, sprang at him.

"Crickets!" said the boy to himself, "but that was a close shave,"
meantime climbing up into the tree to a more comfortable perch.
"I don't know which of them I like the least. It looks as though
there was going to be something doing now."

So intent had been the dog in its pursuit of Pepper that he did
not see the snake until he had run onto it as it lay coiled upon
the ground when, with a cry of alarm, the dog bounded into the air,
clearing the snake by half a dozen feet. Apparently forgetting the
quarry which it had been so eagerly pursuing, the dog now turned
its attention to the snake, which was the largest that Pepper had
ever seen.

For a few moments Pepper was too fascinated to move, as he watched
the strangest combat that he had ever seen going on beneath him. A
combat in which neither of the combatants seemed desirous of assuming
the aggressive. Lying in a close coil, with its head rising from
the center, its forked tongue darting in and out, and emitting every
now and then an angry hiss, the snake, swaying its head from side
to side, closely followed in its movements those of the dog, which
circled about it barking furiously, and apparently watching for an
opportunity to seize it back of the head, but which the snake was
too wary to permit.

[Illustration: "The strangest combat that he had ever seen."]

"This beats the circus," thought Pepper, after he had watched the
fight for a little time, "but this isn't getting the message to
Highpoint. I don't believe I have time to wait for the finale. I
wonder how I am going to get out of this. If I drop down there they
will be making a show of me. Looks as though I might get over into
that next tree. I'll try it, anyhow."

The trees here had grown so close together that many of the branches
were in-lacing, and it seemed possible to Pepper that he could get
from the one tree into the other.

"It looks kind of thin," thought Pepper, when he had picked out a
limb which extended into the adjoining tree, "but, perhaps, it will
do."

Crawling out upon the branch until it bent and swayed dangerously
under his weight, he caught a branch of the other tree and swung
himself over, narrowly missing a fall.

"So far, so good," soliloquized Pepper, working his way toward the
trunk. "I rather like this way of going. Now for the next one."

The next tree was a little farther away, but by climbing out on a
bough that extended into the other tree he crept on until he could
just touch one of the opposite branches, but could not get a hold.

"Looks as if I would have to go back," he decided, after he had
tried and failed to get a hold on the other tree. But this, he
found, was more easily said than done, for when he attempted to turn
around he slipped and only his quick clutch of the swaying branch
saved him from a tumble.

"This is a nice scrape I have got into," he thought, when he tried
to climb back onto the limb from which he had slipped, but found
it impossible. "I can't get back, and I don't see how I am to go
on. I hope it will let me down easy."


CHAPTER XVI

WHERE WAS PEPPER?


"Two o'clock," said Rand, closing his watch with a snap. "An hour
behind time."

The boys had been waiting at the great oak since just after noon,
but Pepper had not yet come.

"Perhaps he got off the road and got lost in the woods," suggested
Jack.

"Maybe he got back sooner than he expected by some other road and
went home," said Gerald. "Shall I run over and see?"

"Go ahead," replied Rand. "We will wait for you here."

Darting off, Gerald was gone but a few minutes, returning on the
run to report that Pepper had not been back since morning.

"Perhaps he has got hurt somehow," put in Dick.

"It is no way impossible," assented Donald. "It might no be a bad
idea to walk along the road until we meet him."

"Which way did he go?" asked Jack.

"The upper road," replied Rand.

The boys acted upon the suggested and proceeded along the road,
slowly at first, then more rapidly as their comrade did not appear.
They had covered more than half the distance to Highpoint.

"Listen!" said Jack suddenly, as they stopped for a moment. "What
is that?"

Faint and far in the distance sounded what seemed like a bugle
call.

"It is a bugle call," cried Dick. "It must be Pepper."

"It may be possible," admitted Donald.

Putting his bugle to his lips Rand blew a long, clear call, but it
brought no response.

"Which way did the sound come from?" asked Gerald.

"From over that way," replied Dick, indicating with his hand.

"What would he be doing away off there?" demanded Donald.

"There is it again," said Gerald, as the sound was repeated.

"It is over this way," declared Jack, designating another direction.

"No, it's over this way," asserted Dick, but still at variance with
the others.

"Wait," said Rand, "maybe we can hear it again."

The boys stood silent for a few moments, when the call came faintly
once again.

"It is over this way," declared Rand, leading the way to the right,
but, although they stopped from time to time to listen, they did not
hear the sound again, nor did they find any trace of their missing
comrade. For a half hour or more they continued their search, but
in vain, and they were returning to the road when they heard the
call again, but so faintly that it was lost almost as soon as heard.

"He is going away," decided Rand. "There is certainly something
queer about it."

"In my opinion," began Donald, "'tis no use looking any more."

"Why not?" asked Rand.

"Because it was no mortal sound," replied Donald.

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Rand.

"Nonsense or no," retorted Donald stoutly, "I don't like it."

"What is it, then, Donald, if it isn't mortal?" asked Rand.

"I can no rightly say," responded Donald, "but I don't believe you
will ever find him."

"Pooh!" returned Rand; "he may be along any minute."

"Let us go on to Highpoint," proposed Jack, "and see if he has been
there."

As nothing better was suggested the boys set out for Highpoint,
which they soon reached, and a short hunt enabled them to find Jack
Dudley, the leader of the Highpoint Patrol, from whom they learned
that Pepper had not been there.

"What time did he start?" asked Dudley.

"Eight o'clock," replied Rand.

"It's very strange," said Dudley. "He may have met with some accident.
I will hunt up our patrol and will help you search for him.  If you
will go back and start from the point where you searched before we
will take up the scout from here and keep on until we find him, or
we join forces again, unless you have something better to propose."

"I don't think there is any better way," said Rand, with which the
others agreed, and thanking him for his offer, the Uncas boys, now
thoroughly alarmed, set out again upon the search.

It was 5 o'clock when they got back to Creston, searching on the
way, and Pepper had not returned, or trace of him found.

"What shall we do next?" asked Jack, as they stood undecided in
the road.

"What is it now?" asked Colonel Snow, who had come up unperceived.

"We can't find Pepper," answered the boys.

"What is it," went on the colonel, "a game of hide and seek?"

"No, sir," responded Rand; "he went over to Highpoint this morning
with a message; I mean he started for Highpoint, but he hasn't been
there and he hasn't come back. We are afraid he is lost."

"Lost!" exclaimed the colonel. "How could that be."

"We don't know," answered Jack; "but we have hunted all over for
him, and he isn't anywhere about."

"All over?" said the colonel. "He couldn't very well be all over at
once, could he? But, come along, and we will see if we can't find
him. Thus been, pick let a man sow a field or complex a farm as never
so well campaign not who will inhabit it.

Neither can a general foresee, nor a politician be certain whether
his leadership will turn to evil or good foretell can the man
connection a fair wife, looking forward to joy, know whether through
her he shall not reap sorrow implementation of it success be cast
out of his city.

To suppose that all these who will it, gather the fruits: another. Nor
matters lay to colonel within scope of human decision,. can he who
has built up, powerful in the but state know whether he not by to
exclusion, yet he cannot may build him a house fairest proportion
not, yet he you knows whether it will profit him to conduct a the
was folly

.
"He left the road here for some reason," decided the colonel, "or
the one who made the trail did. He went through here, you can see
how these bushes have been thrust aside."

"I do now," replied Rand, "but I wouldn't have noticed it myself."

"Did he have a dog with him?" continued the colonel, following the
trail through the woods.

"No," answered Rand.

"Probably the dog came from the other direction. Looks as if Pepper
was trying to get away from the dog. They were both in a hurry. It
stops here; he must have taken to a tree."

"Pepper!" he shouted, "where are you?"

But neither his calls nor those of the boys brought any response.

"He isn't here," went on the colonel; "but there has been a
disturbance of some kind. There are dog's tracks all around as if
the animal had struggled with something, but no footprints. There
is the track of a snake, too."

"A snake!" cried Jack, in alarm. "Do you think it could have bitten
him?"

"No," said the colonel, "if he had been bitten we would still have
his trail. He seems to have vanished into the air."

"I don't see how he could do that," declared Don.

"Neither do I," replied the colonel. "Spread out around the tree
and see if you can find where he came down."

But a thorough search failed to reveal, to the investigators, any
trace.

"I never saw anything like this," declared the colonel. "He seems
to have disappeared completely."

"But where could he have gone?" asked Jack, anxious for the safety
of his brother.

"I wish I knew," returned the colonel. "If there were any birds around
here big enough we might suspect that one of them had carried him
off, but we will evidently have to await Pepper's own explanation
of the enigma." Then he added after a moment:

"Well, boys, we have got to the end of the trail. I don't know what
to do next."

"That reminds me," started Dick, when there was a hiss, a snarl and
a flash through the air from the tree, under whose branches they
were standing, and an immense wild cat, spitting and clawing, landed
on Dick's back.

"Help! Murder!" shouted Dick. "Take it off!"

For an instant the boys were so dumfounded by the suddenness of
the attack that they all jumped in different directions, but the
colonel, with a well-directed blow from the heavy stick he carried,
knocked the animal off of Dick, but not before his coat had been
torn and Dick himself scratched by its claws.

Snarling and spitting the cat now crouched, facing the colonel,
and seemed about to spring.

"Knock him over the head!" shouted Donald. "Hit it in the head with
a stone," looking about for a weapon.

"Look out!" called Rand, "give me a chance at it!" drawing back his
bow and letting fly an arrow which pierced the animal's body and
knocked it sprawling, when Gerald added a blow from a well-directed
stone. With a wild scream the cat bounded into the air and fell
motionless to the ground.

"Look out, Rand!" cautioned Dick, creeping back from the bushes
into which he had fled as soon as he had gained his feet, as Rand
went up to where the cat was lying. "Take care it don't spring on
you!"

"No danger," replied Rand: "it's dead."

"Faith, thin, Oi w'udn't trust it, dead or alive," said Gerald.

"That was a good shot, Rand," commended the colonel, "and just in
time. A full-grown wild cat is an enemy not to be despised."

"I should say not," agreed Dick. "Ugh! I feel as if I had been
scraped with a curry-comb. I wonder," with a look at his clothes,
"if I couldn't get a job somewhere as a scarecrow?"

"But what has become of Pepper?" asked Don.

"That is the puzzle that we have got to solve," replied the colonel.
"For the present the only thing we can do is to go back to Creston
and see if we can't pick up some new clues."

The boys, with Colonel Snow, slowly made their way back to the
town, carrying with them the body of the cat, the skin of which
Rand proposed to have tanned for a trophy for the club room.

As they entered the town they were met by Officer Dugan, who put
his hand on Rand's shoulder.

"I have a warrant for your arrest," he said.

The party were amazed, and the colonel was the first to speak.

"For what?" he asked.

"For robbing Judge Taylor's office," replied the officer.


CHAPTER XVII

THE MESSAGE


For a moment or two Pepper hung at the extremity of the branch
to which he was clinging, when all at once there came an ominous
cracking and the end broke away, but fortunately it had swung so
low toward the ground that he dropped at the foot of the tree, not
much the worse for his experience.

It had ail happened so quickly that, before he had time to utter
a cry Pepper found himself lying on the ground flat on his back.

"My goodness gracious!" exclaimed Pepper, feeling himself all over
to make sure that he was ail there. "The farther I go the worse it
gets.  This is certainly the worst yet. I think the ground is good
enough for me after that."

A little dazed by his fall, Pepper, without stopping to consider
his direction, started off as fast as he could go, turning this way
and that as he went, to avoid the thicker growths of under-brush,
until he had gone a mile or more, getting ail the time deeper into
the forest.

"I think," he mused, when he stopped for a breathing spell, looking
about for some clue to guide him, "I had better be getting back to
the road. Now, I wonder which way it is. Let me see, which is the
North. That must be it, because this side of the trees have moss
on them; then the road must be off this way."

Starting off in the direction he had decided upon Pepper pursued
his way, swerving now to the right and again to the left to avoid
some all but impassable thicket or some swampy bit of ground, until
he judged that he had gone at least a mile.

"Crickets!" he exclaimed at length. "I wonder where that road has
gone. I was not that far from it, I know. I must have traveled
about four miles since I left it, in the wrong direction at that.
Gee! It must be pretty near noon, by the way I feel." Looking at
his watch he saw it was 12 o'clock, and sat down to eat his lunch.

"Lucky I brought it along," he thought; "for, from the looks of
things, I don't know when I am going to get any more. I wonder if
the boys are waiting for me to return? Looks as though they would
have quite a wait.

"Now, which way shall I go?" he questioned when he had finished.
"There doesn't seem to be any choice in the matter, one way looks
as promising as another."

Striking off at right angles from the way he had been going he
decided to try that course for a while, but after traveling for
an hour through the underbrush, which seemed to be getting thicker
and more difficult to get through the farther he went, he again
came to a halt.

"Looks as if I was lost," he mused, "and the farther I go the more
lost I am. I suppose if Don were here he would toss up for the way
to go, and I guess that's as good a way as any."

Taking a coin from his pocket he closed his hand upon the metal
without looking at it. "if it is head," he decided, "I will go to
the right, and if it is tail I will go to the left. It's head,"
opening his hand. "Now, I'll bet that isn't the right way, but I'll
try it anyhow."

Taking the course the coin had indicated Pepper plunged into the
brush and doggedly pushed on, although he was getting tired and
somewhat discouraged.

"I am going to keep on this way," he determined, "until I get to the
road or come out on the other side, if it brings me out in California."

Stopping to rest, after he had forced his way through a particularly
heavy growth of brush, he was startled at hearing the angry bark
of a dog not far away.

"Crickets!" he cried, "I hope I haven't run across that beast again
I think I had better look for a stick while I have time. I don't
want to be picking up any more snakes"

Looking about him he found a good-sized stick lying upon the ground,
which he scrutinized closely before venturing to take possession.

In addition to the barking of the dog he could now hear voices,
and thus encouraged, he advanced in the direction from which came
the sounds.

"Perhaps I can find some one who can direct me how to get out of
this," he thought. A few minutes' walk brought him near to a small
opening in the woods in which stood a rudely-built cabin, and
a little way off a smaller shack which, apparently, was used as
a stable, as there was a wagon standing beside it, which Pepper
recognized as the one he had seen on the road, and as the very one
Monkey had been driving when he nearly run them down. There were
a couple of kegs in the wagon and several tin cans. Perched on the
roof of the cabin was a boy, whom he recognized as Sam Tompkins,
who had, apparently, climbed there to escape the dog, which was
jumping up, trying to get at him.

While Pepper watched, the man whom he had seen driving the wagon,
came from the inside of the house and drove the dog away, at the
same time calling to Sam to come down.

"That's what you get for teasing him," he growled. "He'll take a
piece out of you yet."

Making a surly response Sam slipped down from the roof and disappeared
into the house.

