Produced by Tom Harris, text provided by Litrix Reading Room.


TALES OF THREE HEMISPHERES

Lord Dunsany


CONTENTS

The Last Dream Of Bwona Khubla
How the Office of Postman Fell Vacant In Otford-under-the-Wold
The Prayer Of Boob Aheera
East And West
A Pretty Quarrel
How The Gods Avenged Meoul Ki Ning
The Gift Of The Gods
The Sack Of Emeralds
The Old Brown Coat
An Archive Of The Older Mysteries
A City Of Wonder
  Beyond the Fields We Know
  Publisher's Note
  First Tale: Idle Days on the Yann
  Second Tale: A Shop In Go-By Street
  Third Tale: The Avenger Of Perdóndaris

[Note that the tale "Idle Days on the Yann" also appears in the
collection "A Dreamer's Tales".]


THE LAST DREAM OF BWONA KHUBLA

From steaming lowlands down by the equator, where monstrous orchids
blow, where beetles big as mice sit on the tent-ropes, and fireflies
glide about by night like little moving stars, the travelers went
three days through forests of cactus till they came to the open plains
where the oryx are.

And glad they were when they came to the water-hole, where only one
white man had gone before, which the natives know as the camp of Bwona
Khubla, and found the water there.

It lies three days from the nearest other water, and when Bwona Khubla
had gone there three years ago, what with malaria with which he was
shaking all over, and what with disgust at finding the water-hole dry,
he had decided to die there, and in that part of the world such
decisions are always fatal.  In any case he was overdue to die, but
hitherto his amazing resolution, and that terrible strength of
character that so astounded his porters, had kept him alive and moved
his safari on.

He had had a name no doubt, some common name such as hangs as likely
as not over scores of shops in London; but that had gone long ago, and
nothing identified his memory now to distinguish it from the memories
of all the other dead but "Bwona Khubla," the name the Kikuyus gave
him.

There is not doubt that he was a fearful man, a man that was dreaded
still for his personal force when his arm was no longer able to lift
the kiboko, when all his men knew he was dying, and to this day though
he is dead.

Though his temper was embittered by malaria and the equatorial sun,
nothing impaired his will, which remained a compulsive force to the
very last, impressing itself upon all, and after the last, from what
the Kikuyus say.  The country must have had powerful laws that drove
Bwona Khubla out, whatever country it was.

On the morning of the day that they were to come to the camp of Bwona
Khubla all the porters came to the travelers' tents asking for dow.
Dow is the white man's medicine, that cures all evils; the nastier it
tastes, the better it is.  They wanted down this morning to keep away
devils, for they were near the place where Bwona Khubla died.

The travelers gave them quinine.

By sunset the came to Campini Bwona Khubla and found water there. Had
they not found water many of them must have died, yet none felt any
gratitude to the place, it seemed too ominous, too full of doom, too
much harassed almost by unseen, irresistible things.

And all the natives came again for dow as soon as the tents were
pitched, to protect them from the last dreams of Bwona Khubla, which
they say had stayed behind when the last safari left taking Bwona
Khubla's body back to the edge of civilization to show to the white
men there that they had not killed him, for the white men might not
know that they durst not kill Bwona Khubla.

And the travelers gave them more quinine, so much being bad for the
nerves, and that night by the camp-fires there was no pleasant talk;
all talking at once of meat they had eaten and cattle that each one
owned, but a gloomy silence hung by every fire and the little canvas
shelters.  They told the white men that Bwona Khubla's city, of which
he had thought at the last (and where the natives believed he was once
a king), of which he had raved till the loneliness rang with his
raving, had settled down all about them; and they were afraid, for it
was so strange a city, and wanted more dow.  And the two travelers
gave them more quinine, for they saw real fear in their faces, and
knew they might run away and leave them alone in that place, that
they, too, had come to fear with an almost equal dread, though they
knew not why.  And as the night wore on their feeling of boding
deepened, although they had shared three bottles or so of champagne
that they meant to keep for days when they killed a lion.

This is the story that each of those two men tell, and which their
porters corroborate, but then a Kikuyu will always say whatever he
thinks is expected of him.

The travelers were both in bed and trying to sleep but not able to do
so because of an ominous feeling.  That mournfullest of all the cries
of the wild, the hyæna like a damned soul lamenting, strangely enough
had ceased.  The night wore on to the hour when Bwona Khubla had died
three or four years ago, dreaming and raving of "his city"; and in the
hush a sound softly arose, like a wind at first, then like the roar of
beasts, then unmistakably the sound of motors--motors and motor
busses.

And then they saw, clearly and unmistakably they say, in that lonely
desolation where the equator comes up out of the forest and climbs
over jagged hills,--they say they saw London.

There could have been no moon that night, but they say there was a
multitude of stars.  Mists had come rolling up at evening about the
pinnacles of unexplored red peaks that clustered round the camp.  But
they say the mist must have cleared later on; at any rate they swear
they could see London, see it and hear the roar of it.  Both say they
saw it not as they knew it at all, not debased by hundreds of
thousands of lying advertisements, but transfigured, all its houses
magnificent, its chimneys rising grandly into pinnacles, its vast
squares full of the most gorgeous trees, transfigured and yet London.

Its windows were warm and happy, shining at night, the lamps in their
long rows welcomed you, the public-houses were gracious jovial places;
yet it was London.

They could smell the smells of London, hear London songs, and yet it
was never the London that they knew; it was as though they had looked
on some strange woman's face with the eyes of her lover.  For of all
the towns of the earth or cities of song; of all the spots there be,
unhallowed or hallowed, it seemed to those two men then that the city
they saw was of all places the most to be desired by far.  They say a
barrel organ played quite near them, they say a coster was singing,
they admit that he was singing out of tune, they admit a cockney
accent, and yet they say that that song had in it something that no
earthly song had ever had before, and both men say that they would
have wept but that there was a feeling about their heartstrings that
was far too deep for tears.  They believe that the longing of this
masterful man, that was able to rule a safari by raising a hand, had
been so strong at the last that it had impressed itself deeply upon
nature and had caused a mirage that may not fade wholly away, perhaps
for several years.

I tried to establish by questions the truth or reverse of this story,
but the two men's tempers had been so spoiled by Africa that they were
not up to cross-examination.  They would not even say if their
camp-fires were still burning.  They say that they saw the London
lights all round them from eleven o'clock till midnight, they could
hear London voices and the sound of the traffic clearly, and over
all, a little misty perhaps, but unmistakably London, arose the great
metropolis.

After midnight London quivered a little and grew more indistinct, the
sound of the traffic began to dwindle away, voices seemed farther off,
ceased altogether, and all was quiet once more where the mirage
shimmered and faded, and a bull rhinoceros coming down through the
stillness snorted, and watered at the Carlton Club.


HOW THE OFFICE OF POSTMAN FELL VACANT IN OTFORD-UNDER-THE-WOLD

The duties of postman at Otford-under-the-Wold carried Amuel Sleggins
farther afield than the village, farther afield than the last house in
the lane, right up to the big bare wold and the house where no one
went, no one that is but the three grim men that dwelt there and the
secretive wife of one, and, once a year when the queer green letter
came, Amuel Sleggins the postman.

The green letter always came just as the leaves were turning,
addressed to the eldest of the three grim men, with a wonderful
Chinese stamp and the Otford post-mark, and Amuel Sleggins carried it
up to the house.

Although I am young, but you could by me a salary to do it, it's
wisdom, a weak, poor, innocent lamb aufzuopfern to placate angry God.
Macduff. I'm not Verräther. Malcolm. But Macbeth ists . Would power
and can create a virtuous character falsify.

I ask you for forgiveness, my thoughts can lead you to nothing else
than their Seyde; angels shine constantly, even if the brightest fell:
though all the bad things that shape the Good Further, it must be good
but always keep this shape. Macduff. I have lost my hopes. Malcolm.
Maybe just because, where I found my doubts. How? you should give in
such dangerous circumstances, your wife and your children, the precious
pledges of love to leave, without even to say goodbye - I ask you,
treibet me not, my concerns are not offend you, but my security
Seyn: ye can a very quite Schaffner Seyn man, I might think what I
want.

Macduff. So then the blood, blood, my poor mother! and you,
eingethronte Tyranney, Seze you fixed, because honestly you can
not shake - tolerate your insults, his title is bestätiget. posturing
thee well, lord. To all the space that the tyrant in his mouth holds,
and the rich East to I want the loin Seyn not for me ansiehst.
Malcolm. Will not unwilling, as I say, not really from a distrust
ago so I in you Seze. I think our country is falling under the yoke,
it weeps, it bleeds, and each new day is a new wound to his previous
one.

I have no doubt that it would be right for my hands lifted, and this
gives me England compassionate friendship to many thousands. Gesezt But
also, I finally träte on the main tyrants, or would 'it's my Spize
Schwerdt, so will my poor mother dabey not win, it will only have
more defects than previously, and his successor, and even more on
mannichfaltigere a kind of suffering than ever.

Macduff. And who should Seyn? Malcolm. Meyn myself, I am * in which
all besondre truck eingepfropft are so that if they aufthun and
spread, the black Macbeth seem snow white, and the poor state it, with
my boundless malice compared to a mild lamb will watch. -* (ed This
interview with Malcolm Macduff is the chronicles of Scotland made.
Pope.) Macduff. For all the legions of the flaming abyss wicked devil
can not come forth as Macbeth. Malcolm. I confess' it, he's
bloodthirsty, schwelgerisch, greedy, wrong, tükisch, moody, boßhaft,
and smells like any sin, a name.

But in my Dishonorable is no soil, no, no, your wives, your daughters,
your mothers and your girls still were not untimely, which Cisterne
rebuild my pleasure, and there are no barriers, no obstacles to devise
that my unbridled lust would not skip. Besser, Macbeth rule as such.
Macduff. Boundless opulence is a kind of Tyranney, and has some
time before the throne, made empty, the fall has already been some
kings. But you deßwegen not afraid to take what is yours, you can
your Ergözungen a wide target Stekene without the general auszusezen
eye. We have enough women willing, there can be no such Geyer in you
Seyn whose voracity to ersättigen, not all of those should be sufficient,
which the Majesty frey willingly devote as soon as they noticed their
tendency to have. Malcolm. Überdas grows under my untidy other affections,
so insatiable avarice, that if I were king, I mean Edeln out of the way
would admit to their goods to me to reality, this would Bey me his
precious Movables reizen, Bey that his house; Anwachs of my property
would just like a broth Seyn, which made me hungry, so I rechtschaffne
unjust Handel people search, and they would perish, in order to have
their Reichthümer. Macduff.

Stinginess This suggests deeper, and spreads from roots perishable,
than lust, with the summer of their lives Hize verliehrt; He is the
Schwerdt been that our kings have slain: but even this is not fear,
Scotland has plenty, your greed with that anzufüllen what your lawful
property is Seyn. Everything is still bearable, if it is paid for
other virtues. Malcolm. But the hab 'ich nicht; of all these royal
virtues, justice, truth, moderation, fortitude, goodness, mercy,
Demuth, piety, patience, hearty, bravery is not a spark in me and all
my affections, all the drivers I will have just as many vices, and
I practice every possible on all types. Yes, had I the ability to,
I would be the sweet milk of concord into hell, throw the general
peace aufstören, and the whole earth a desolation of Schauplaz make.
Macduff. O Scotland, Scotland! Malcolm. If on such a Government is fit
to speak, I am, as I said. Macduff. Government To fit? No, not worth
of life. O unglükselige nation! Under the bloody Scepter illegal
ruler sigh, if you will your glüklichen days again? as the rightful
heir to the throne of thy spell of exclusion on the matter itself and
its sacred origin blasphemed. Your royal father was the best King,
the Queen, you gebahr, often on their knees than their feet, died
every day they lived.

O! Take thou well! That truck, which you accuse yourself, have banished
me from Scotland. O! My heart! here that all your hopes! Malcolm.
Macduff, this noble passion, the honesty of your child, the black doubts
wiped from my mind and my thoughts are with your sincerity and honor
reconciled. The devilish Macbeth has been by some who consider themselves
my friends had to keep me in his power to get wanted: suspicious
wisdom was my safety, but God in heaven sey witness between me and
thee, that I, in this faith, which thou I now have won me over completely
let your leadership, and Bey him swear I, that all these vices and
shame, which I accused myself, far away from me. I have detected no
female, never broke my word, I hardly those desires, which is my own,
and do even the devil his Cameraden not verrathen I love the truth
no less than my life, and the first untruth, which out of my mouth
is gone, it was again myself in what I am That is you and my poor
services to the Fatherland; würklich while before your arrival, the old
Siward toes with one thousand valiant men of war is broken. We
want to follow him, and let the outcome of the justice of our experts'
meet! - Why silence her? Macduff. Willkommne So and so unwillkommne
things at once are schwehr together to rhyme! Fifth Scene. (A doctor
on the former.) Malcolm . Well, of which more afterwards! - Is the
King, I ask you? doctor. Yes, Milord, there is a Hauffen poor people
here, on his healing hand to wait their illness makes the art of
extreme attempts to shame. But as soon as he touched it, (such a
force, the sky's sacred hand embedded,) they shall be on the body
healthy. (He goes anyway.) Malcolm. Thank you, Doctor. Macduff. From
what kind of disease redte he? Malcolm. It is called the evil
* it is a highly wunderthätige property of this king, what I am,
since my stay in England, has often been an eye witness. How this
gift he requested from the sky, he himself knows best, certainly is
that he who with strange tumors and ulcers are hit (a pathetic
Anblik and the despair of the healing arts!) By his touch heals by he,
under the holy prayers, a golden character hangs around her neck:
and it is said that he would this healing blessing to all his
successors have kings. Besides this wonderful healing power he still
has the gift of Prophezeyung, and many other blessings hanging around
his throne, which prove that he is a favorite of heaven is. -* (Ed
(The Evil), or (the King's Evil) PREFERABLY be in England called the
Kröpfe what (Eduardus Confessor), by the mere touch of his hand
have healed.) Sixth Scene. (steeds to the former.) Macduff. Look, who
comes here! Malcolm. A country man, and yet kenn 'I did not. Macduff.
Werther My cousin Seyde welcome. Malcolm. Now I know him. The sky will
soon remove the causes that make us each other strange! Rosse. They
say 'Amen, I, Gracious Lord. Macduff. Is Scotland still in the old
status? Rosse. Oh! Our poor country, it erschrikt before his own Anblik!
It can no longer our mother genennt, but our grave; a country where
general Jammer eaten all countenances, where the ignorant child
weighing smile still looks alone, where sigh, groan Schreyer and the
air, without being noticed more, and killed the Beyme Todtengloke barely
asked to whom? Rechtschaffne Where there are people faster than the
flowers on their hats, and die, eh they become ill. Macduff. O cruel,
but only allzuwahrhafte description! Malcolm. What is the latest
complaint? Rosse. Every minute from a new breed. Macduff.
What's to my wife? Rosse. How? probably - Macduff.
And to all my children?

Rosse. well, too - Macduff.

If the tyrant does not disturb their sleep? Rosse. No, they were in
a good rest, as I left. Macduff. I remember you, that you want to
hide something to me: frey speak out, how does it work?

Rosse. As I abreisete to the newspapers with which I am heavily
laden, hieherzutragen, went a rumor that people from different
well-behaved the way has been cleared seyen, which I believe was
more because I am the peoples of the tyrant ausrüken saw. Now is
the time to help ; your Anblik mere warrior in Scotland would create
and encourage women to fight for this unbearable loss to Jammers.
Malcolm. Let her Seyn consolation that we are to come: the Huldreich
King of England gave us the wakern Siward toes with borrowed
thousands of men, the oldest and best-man war in the whole Christendom.

Rosse. Wollte the sky, I could take this consolation with another
erwiedern! But I have things to say that I prefer in a desert
wasteland hineinheulen wanted - Macduff. What concern they? the
general case? Or is it a particular pain, of any individual breast
listened? Rosse. It is not honest Gemüth, not Theil it takes, whether
you like it all belongs alone. Macduff. If it's my, it's me contains
no longer pre - -talking! Rosse. O! Let that which I have to say, the
sound of my voice 'ears euern not forever be hated! It is the most
painful, whatever you've ever heard. Macduff. Hem! I Errath it. Rosse.
Castle is your surprise, your wife and your children have been subjected
to inhumane niedergemezelt - to tell the circumstances, would euern
death to theirs häuffen. Malcolm. Merciful heavens! - What, man!
drükt euern hat on your not so Augbrauen - Gebt euerm pain words: a
silent pain presses his actions back into the heart and make it
break. Macduff. My children too!

Rosse. wife, children, family denies everything he found. Macduff. And
must I be absent Seyn! Also brought to my wife? Rosse. As I said.
Malcolm. FASSET you; Raach should Arzney Seyn what we want to cure
deadly pain. Macduff. He has no children - like all my Püpchen? All
who did you say? Like, all? O Geyer hellish! all? Like, all my poor
chicken, and her mother, a cursed Schluk? Malcolm.

Rächet you like a man - Macduff. I want: but I want to feel like
a man I can not forget that I had that they were the most precious
thing I had - could watch the sky, and took her not to? Sin Full
Macduff! deinetwillen were to slay them! I unglükseliger! Not to their
Missethaten to the mine's sake, they were slaughtered, the sky now
give them peace! Malcolm. Let the wezen your Schwerdt, let pain transform
itself into Wuthe: your heart is not relieved, it sezt in flames.

Macduff. O, I could and Schreyer weep like a woman! However, you
loving the sky, all cut from postponement! bring you, forehead against
forehead, me and this Scottish devil together, making him only so close
that it can reach my Schwerdt, and if I let him escape, then, O heaven,
then vergieb him! Malcolm. This sound is male! Come, let us go to the
king, our peoples are ready to march, we have nothing more than Nöthiger
to say goodbye. Macbeth is ripe to be shaken off, and the powers
above us Sezen their tools.

Come and erfrischet you this night to the morning day. (They go
from.) Fifth lift. Erste Scene. (An anteroom in Macbeth's castle.) (A
doctor and a chamber-woman to join.) Doctor. I have now zwoo
maintaining nights with you, but I do not think that your story
bestättiget. If it was because they went leztemal? Chamber wife. Since
his majesty to the battle field is drawn, have I seen that they made
their bed aufstuhnd their Schlafrok to get threw her Cabinet aufschloß,
paper removal, are presented together , wrote about, let, then sealed,
and then went back to bed, and all this in the deepest sleep.
doctor. This shows a big mess in the nature! at the same time, the sleep
Wohlthat enjoy the shops and watching thun! Besides Herumgehn and
würklichen other treatments, she heard her slumbering in this
movement ever talk about something?

chamber wife. This, sir, möcht 'I failed to tell her. doctor . Against
me it's probably allowed and it is very Nöthiger that their's does.
chamber woman. Neither to you nor any other living soul, because I
had no witnesses who could confirm my statement. (Lady Macbeth enters
with a wax light.) Look, look! here it comes, so she cares to
go, and Bey my life, in deep sleep, they only observed, but you
keep quiet. doctor.

How she came to the light? chamber wife.

It stuhnd next to her bed: she has always Bey is light, it is their
command. Doctor. You see, she has the eyes open. Chamber-wife. Yes,
but their perception is closed. Doctor. What makes it IZT? Behold, how
they wash their hands. Chamber-wife. I'm already accustomed to
wash their hands so to see, I've already seen that a whole quarter
on a continuing, though that.

Lady Macbeth. Here is a Fleken. doctor. listening, they redt. I want
everything written down what she says, so I will not forget it. Lady
Macbeth. Way you Verdammter Fleken; away, I say - one - zwey; Well
then, it is high time - Hell is dark. Fy, Milord, fy! a soldier and
erschroken? What we need to fear that it is live, since no one
powerful enough to us to account - but who would have thought
that the old man so much blood in him would have been? Doctor. Do you
hear that? Lady Macbeth . The Than of Fife had a wife, where is she
now? - How want these hands never be clean? - Nothing more of which,
Milord, nothing of which it corrupted everything this staring. doctor.
Go, go; you know something that you should not. Chamber-wife. She has
spoken, what they should not, I am sure, the sky knows what they
might know. Lady Macbeth.

The smell of blood still after all the spices of Arabia this little
hand can not smell it.

Oh, oh, oh! Doctor. What a sigh that was! It has something heavy on
the heart. Chamber-wife. I wanted to keep the whole sovereignty of
their heart there is no such person in my breasts have. Doctor.
Well, well, well - Women's Chamber.

That was God that is so sey, Sir - doctor. This disease is about my
experience, however, hab 'ich doch such somnambulist knew to be good
Christians in their beds died. Lady Macbeth. wash your hands, throw
euern Schlafrok to look not so pale from -- I tell you again Banquo is
buried, he made his grave can not come back. doctor. Würklich? Lady
Macbeth. To bed, to bed, one knocking at the gate: come, come, come,
come, give me your hand: What has happened can not be changed. To
bed, to bed, to bed. (Lady Macbeth's up.) Doctor. Is it now to
bed? Chamber wife. Straight Way. Doctor. Lispelt Man entsezliche
things in each other's ears. Unnatural Thater bring unrest
appears unnatural, and a conscience mutters angestektes his secrets
of his deaf-kissing on the head.

It requires more of a clergyman, as a doctor. God, God, vergieb us all
- Look at her! Removed everything from it so they could damage thun,
and let them no Augenblik unguarded, and hiemit, good night. My Gemüth
is completely shocked and my face like fog-drunk - I think, but I
can not talk. Chamber-wife. Good night, Mr. Doctor. (They go from.)
Zweyte Scene. (Turns into a realm with a forest in the distance.)
(Menteth, Cathneß, Angus, Lenox and soldiers come on.) Menteth.
The English power is near, by Malcolm, his uncle Siward and the valiant
Macduff above. They burn from Raach: insults, as they have erlidten
would be dead penitents Wuthe Thater and bloody maddening. Angus. In
the area of the forest of Birnam we can best unite with them, they come
the same way. Cathness. Weiß jemand, whether Donalbain Bey them?
Lenox.

It's certainly, sir, that he has not Bey them is, I have a list of
all its Edeln: Siwards son is dabey, and a lot unbärtiger youths who
just IZT its first sample of Mannheit store. Menteth. What does the
tyrant? Cathness. befestiget He Dunsinan uncommonly strong, and some
say he sey livid; others who hate it less, call it heroic Wuthe, but
it is certain that he, in the verzweiffelten thing he has to defend,
not master of himself kan. remain Angus. He feels now, as the tools
of his secret Mordthaten against himself return, each Augenblik
gebihrt a waste of his own he accuses of treason, those to whom he
still bids, move only on command, not love; IZT he feels that his
title as fluttrig around his shoulders hangs a giant Rok zwergmäßigen
a thief. Menteth. Who then can be surprised when their dismay and call
for the senses zurükzittern since everything in it is itself doomed?
Cathness.

Okay, so we want to go, and then take our obedience, where he heard
the Arzney our fatherland go sick, and his healing, our blood to the
last drops hergeben. Lenox. Nöthiger least as much as is the royal
flower bethauen, and to drown the weeds. Let us against Birnam
vorrüken. (They go from.) Third Scene. (The castle Dunsinan.)
(Macbeth, a doctor, and served.) Macbeth. Bring me no more newspapers,
let them all escape: Until the Birnam forest after Dunsinan moves
Macbeth knows no fear. What's the boy Malcolm? Ward, he is not born
of a woman?

From thankfulness he turned to calm again, and out of calm to sleep.


A PRETTY QUARREL

On one of those unattained, and unattainable pinnacles that are known
as the Bleaks of Eerie, an eagle was looking East with a hopeful
presage of blood.

For he knew, and rejoiced in the knowledge, that eastward over the
dells the dwarfs were risen in Ulk, and gone to war with the
demi-gods.

The demi-gods are they that were born of earthly women, but their
sires are the elder gods who walked of old among men.  Disguised they
would go through the villages sometimes in summer evenings, cloaked
and unknown of men; but the younger maidens knew them and always ran
to them singing, for all that their elders said: in evenings long ago
they had danced to the woods of the oak-trees.  Their children dwelt
out-of-doors beyond the dells of the bracken, in the cool and heathery
lands, and were now at war with the dwarfs.

Dour and grim were the demi-gods and had the faults of both parents,
and would not mix with men but claimed the right of their fathers, and
would not play human games but forever were prophesying, and yet were
more frivolous than their mothers were, whom the fairies had long
since buried in wild wood gardens with more than human rites.

And being irked at their lack of rights and ill content with the land,
and having no power at all over the wind and snow, and caring little
for the powers they had, the demi-gods became idle, greasy, and slow;
and the contemptuous dwarfs despised them ever.

The dwarfs were contemptuous of all things savouring of heaven, and of
everything that was even partly divine.  They were, so it has been
said, of the seed of man; but, being squat and hairy like to the
beasts; they praised all beastly things, and bestiality was shown
reverence among them, so far as reverence was theirs to show.  So most
of all they despised the discontent of the demi-gods, who dreamed of
the courts of heaven and power over wind and snow; for what better,
said the dwarfs, could demi-gods do than nose in the earth for roots
and cover their faces with mire, and run with the cheerful goats and
be even as they?

Now in their idleness caused by their discontent, the seed of the gods
and the maidens grew more discontented still, and only spake of or
cared for heavenly things; until the contempt of the dwarfs, who heard
of all these doings, was bridled no longer and it must needs be war.
They burned spice, dipped in blood and dried, before the chief of
their witches, sharpening their axes, and made war on the demi-gods.

They passed by night over the Oolnar Mountains, each dwarf with his
good axe, the old flint war-axe of his fathers, a night when no moon
shone, and they went unshod, and swiftly, to come on the demi-gods in
the darkness beyond the dells of Ulk, lying fat and idle and
contemptible.

And before it was light they found the heathery lands, and the
demi-gods lying lazy all over the side of a hill.  The dwarfs stole
towards them warily in the darkness.

Now the art that the gods love most is the art of war: and when the
seed of the gods and those nimble maidens awoke and found it was war
it was almost as much to them as the godlike pursuits of heaven,
enjoyed in the marble courts; or power over wind and snow.  They all
drew out at once their swords of tempered bronze, cast down to them
centuries since on stormy nights when their fathers, drew them and
faced the dwarfs, and casting their idleness from them, fell on them,
sword to axe.  And the dwarfs fought hard that night, and bruised the
demi-gods sorely, hacking with those huge axes that had not spared the
oaks.  Yet for all the weight of their blows and the cunning of their
adventure, one point they had overlooked: _the demi-gods were
immortal._

As the fight rolled on towards morning the fighters were fewer and
fewer, yet for all the blows of the dwarfs men fell upon one side
only.

Dawn came and the demi-gods were fighting against no more than six,
and the hour that follows dawn, and the last of the dwarfs was gone.

And when the light was clear on that peak of the Bleaks of Eerie the
eagle left his crag and flew grimly East, and found it was as he had
hoped in the matter of blood.

But the demi-gods lay down in their heathery lands, for once content
though so far from the courts of heaven, and even half forgot their
heavenly rights, and sighed no more for power over wind and snow.


HOW THE GODS AVENGED MEOUL KI NING

Meoul Ki Ning was on his way with a lily from the lotus ponds of Esh
to offer it to the Goddess of Abundance in her temple Aoul Keroon. And
on the road from the pond to the little hill and the temple Aoul
Keroon, Ap Ariph, his enemy, shot him with an arrow from a bow that he
had made out of bamboo, and took his pretty lily up the hill and
offered it to the Goddess of Abundance in her temple Aoul Keroon. And
the Goddess was pleased with the gift, as all women are, and sent
pleasant dreams to Ap Ariph for seven nights straight from the moon.

And on the seventh night the gods held conclave together, on the
cloudy peaks they held it, above Narn, Ktoon, and Pti.  So high their
peak arises that no man heard their voices.  They spake on that cloudy
mountain (not the highest hamlet heard them).  "What doth the Goddess
of Abundance," (but naming her Lling, as they name her), "what doth
she sending sweet dreams for seven nights to Ap Ariph?"

And the gods sent for their seer who is all eyes and feet, running to
and fro on the Earth, observing the ways of men, seeing even their
littlest doings, never deeming a doing too little, but knowing the web
of the gods is woven of littlest things.  He it is that sees the cat
in the garden of parakeets, the thief in the upper chamber, the sin of
the child with the honey, the women talking indoors and the small
hut's innermost things.  Standing before the gods he told them the
case of Ap Ariph and the wrongs of Meoul Ki Ning and the rape of the
lotus lily; he told of the cutting and making of Ap Ariph's bamboo
bow, of the shooting of Meoul Ki Ning, and of how the arrow hit him,
and the smile on the face of Lling when she came by the lotus bloom.

And the gods were wroth with Ap Ariph and swore to avenge Ki Ning.

And the ancient one of the gods, he that is older than Earth, called
up the thunder at once, and raised his arms and cried out on the gods'
high windy mountain, and prophesied on those rocks with runes that
were older than speech, and sang in his wrath old songs that he had
learned in storm from the sea, when only that peak of the gods in the
whole of the earth was dry; and he swore that Ap Ariph should die that
night, and the thunder raged about him, and the tears of Lling were
vain.

The lightning stroke of the gods leaping earthward seeking Ap Ariph
passed near to his house but missed him.  A certain vagabond was down
from the hills, singing songs in the street near by the house of Ap
Ariph, songs of a former folk that dwelt once, they say, in those
valleys, and begging for rice and curds; it was him the lightning hit.

And the gods were satisfied, and their wrath abated, and their thunder
rolled away and the great black clouds dissolved, and the ancient one
of the gods went back to his age-old sleep, and morning came, and the
birds and the light shone on the mountain, and the peak stood clear to
see, the serene home of the gods.


THE GIFT OF THE GODS

There was once a man who sought a boon of the gods.  For peace was
over the world and all things savoured of sameness, and the man was
weary at heart and sighed for the tents and the warfields.  Therefore
he sought a boon of the ancient gods.  And appearing before them he
said to them, "Ancient gods; there is peace in the land where I dwell,
and indeed to the uttermost parts, and we are full weary of peace.  O
ancient gods, grant us war!"

And the ancient gods made him a war.

And the man went forth with his sword, and behold it was even war. And
the man remembered the little things that he knew, and thought of the
quiet days that there used to be, and at night on the hard ground
dreamed of the things of peace.  And dearer and dearer grew the wonted
things, the dull but easeful things of the days of peace, and
remembering these he began to regret the war, and sought once more a
boon of the ancient gods, and appearing before them he said: "O
ancient gods, indeed but a man loves best the days of peace. Therefore
take back your war and give us peace, for indeed of all your
blessedness peace is best."

And the man returned again to the haunts of peace.

But in a while the man grew weary of peace, of the things that he used
to know, and the savour of sameness again; and sighing again for the
tents, and appearing once more to the gods, he said to them: "Ancient
gods; we do not love your peace, for indeed the days are dull, and a
man is best at war."

And the gods made him a war.

And there were drums again, the smoke of campfires again, wind in the
waste again, the sound of horses of war, burning cities again, and the
things that wanderers know; and the thoughts of that man went home to
the ways of peace; moss upon lawns again, light in old spires again,
sun upon gardens again, flowers in pleasant woods and sleep and the
paths of peace.

And once more the man appeared to the ancient gods and sought from
them one more boon, and said to them: "Ancient gods; indeed but the
world and we are a-weary of war and long for the ancient ways and the
paths of peace."

So the gods took back their war and gave him peace.

But the man took counsel one day and communed long with himself and
said to himself: "Behold, the wishes I wish, which the gods grant, are
not to be much desired; and if the gods should one day grant a wish
and never revoke it, which is a way of the gods, I should be sorely
tried because of my wish; my wishes are dangerous wishes and not to be
desired."

And therefore he wrote an anonymous letter to the gods, writing: "O
ancient gods; this man that hath four times troubled you with his
wishes, wishing for peace and war, is a man that hath no reverence for
the gods, speaking ill of them on days when they do not hear, and
speaking well of them on holy days and at the appointed hours when the
gods are hearkening to prayer.  Therefore grant no more wishes to this
impious man."

And the days of peace wore on and there arose again from the earth,
like mist in the autumn from the fields that generations have
ploughed, the savour of sameness again.  And the man went forth one
morning and appeared once more to the gods, and cried: "O ancient
gods; give us but one war again, for I would be back to the camps and
debateable borders of lands."

And the gods said: "We hear not well of your way of life, yea ill
things have come to our hearing, so that we grant no more the wishes
you wish."


THE SACK OF EMERALDS

One bad October night in the high wolds beyond Wiltshire, with a north
wind chaunting of winter, with the old leaves letting go their hold
one by one from branches and dropping down to decay, with a mournful
sound of owls, and in fearsome loneliness, there trudged in broken
boots and in wet and windy rags an old man, stooping low under a sack
of emeralds.  It were easy to see had you been travelling late on that
inauspicious night, that the burden of the sack was far too great for
the poor old man that bore it.  And had you flashed a lantern in his
face there was a look there of hopelessness and fatigue that would
have told you it was no wish of his that kept him tottering on under
that bloated sack.

When the menacing look of the night and its cheerless sounds, and the
cold, and the weight of the sack, had all but brought him to the door
of death, and he had dropped his sack onto the road and was dragging
it on behind him, just as he felt that his final hour was come, and
come (which was worse) as he held the accursed sack, just then he saw
the bulk and the black shape of the Sign of the Lost Shepherd loom up
by the ragged way.  He opened the door and staggered into the light
and sank on a bench with his huge sack beside him.

All this you had seen had you been on that lonely road, so late on
those bitter wolds, with their outlines vast and mournful in the dark,
and their little clumps of trees sad with October.  But neither you
nor I were out that night.  I did not see the poor old man and his
sack until he sank down all of a heap in the lighted inn.

And Yon the blacksmith was there; and the carpenter, Willie Losh; and
Jackers, the postman's son.  And they gave him a glass of beer. And
the old man drank it up, still hugging his emeralds.

And at last they asked him what he had in his sack, the question he
clearly dreaded; and he only clasped yet tighter the sodden sack and
mumbled he had potatoes.

"Potatoes," said Yon the blacksmith.

"Potatoes," said Willie Losh.

And when he heard the doubt that was in their voices the old man
shivered and moaned.

"Potatoes, did you say?" said the postman's son.  And they all three
rose and tried to peer at the sack that the rain-soaked wayfarer so
zealously sheltered.

And from the old man's fierceness I had said that, had it not been for
that foul night on the roads and the weight he had carried so far and
the fearful winds of October, he had fought with the blacksmith, the
carpenter and the postman's son, all three, till he beat them away
from his sack.  And weary and wet as he was he fought them hard.

I should no doubt have interfered; and yet the three men meant no harm
to the wayfarer, but resented the reticence that he displayed to them
though they had given him beer; it was to them as though a master key
had failed to open a cupboard.  And, as for me, curiosity held me down
to my chair and forbade me to interfere on behalf of the sack; for the
old man's furtive ways, and the night out of which he came, and the
hour of his coming, and the look of his sack, all made me long as much
to know what he had, as even the blacksmith, the carpenter and the
postman's son.

And then they found the emeralds.  They were all bigger than hazel
nuts, hundreds and hundreds of them: and the old man screamed.

"Come, come, we're not thieves," said the blacksmith.

"We're not thieves," said the carpenter.

"We're not thieves," said the postman's son.

And with awful fear on his face the wayfarer closed his sack,
whimpering over his emeralds and furtively glancing round as though
the loss of his secret were and utterly deadly thing.  And then they
asked him to give them just one each, just one huge emerald each,
because they had given him a glass of beer.  Then to see the wayfarer
shrink against his sack and guard it with clutching fingers one would
have said that he was a selfish man, were it not for the terror that
was freezing his face.  I have seen men look sheer at Death with far
less fear.

And they took their emerald all three, one enormous emerald each,
while the old man hopelessly struggled till he saw his three emeralds
go, and fell to the floor and wept, a pitiable, sodden heap.

And about that time I began to hear far off down the windy road, by
which that sack had come, faintly at first and slowly louder and
louder, the click clack clop of a lame horse coming nearer.  Click
clack clop and a loose shoe rattling, the sound of a horse too weary
to be out upon such a night, too lame to be out at all.

Click clack clop.  And all of a sudden the old wayfarer heard it;
heard it above the sound of his won sobbing, and at once went white to
the lips.  Such sudden fear as blanched him in a moment struck right
to the hearts of all there.  They muttered to him that it was only
their play, they hastily whispered excuses, they asked him what was
wrong, but seemed scarcely to hope for an answer, nor did he speak,
but sat with a frozen stare, all at once dry-eyed, a monument to
terror.

Nearer and nearer came the click clack clop.

And when I saw the expression of that man's face and how its horror
deepened as the ominous sound drew nearer, then I knew that something
was wrong.  And looking for the last time upon all four I saw the
wayfarer horror-struck by his sack and the other three crowding round
to put their huge emeralds back then, even on such a night, I slipped
away from the inn.

Outside the bitter wind roared in my ears, and close in the darkness
the horse went click clack clop.

And as soon as my eyes could see at all in the night I saw a man in a
huge hat looped up in front, wearing a sword in a scabbard shabby and
huge, and looking blacker than the darkness, riding on a lean horse
slowly up to the inn.  Whether his were the emeralds, or who he was,
or why he rode a lame horse on such a night, I did not stop to
discover, but went at once from the inn as he strode in his great
black riding coat up to the door.

And that was the last that was ever seen of the wayfarer; the
blacksmith, the carpenter or the postman's son.


THE OLD BROWN COAT

My friend, Mr. Douglas Ainslie, tells me that Sir James Barrie once
told him this story.  The story, or rather the fragment, was as
follows.

A man strolling into an auction somewhere abroad, I think it must have
been France, for they bid in francs, found they were selling old
clothes.  And following some idle whim he soon found himself bidding
for an old coat.  A man bid against him, he bid against the man. Up
and up went the price till the old coat was knocked down to him for
twenty pounds.  As he went away with the coat he saw the other bidder
looking at him with an expression of fury.

That's as far as the story goes.  But how, Mr. Ainslie asked me, did
the matter develop, and why that furious look?  I at once made
enquiries at a reliable source and have ascertained that the man's
name was Peters, who thus oddly purchased a coat, and that he took it
to the Rue de Rivoli, to a hotel where he lodged, from the little low,
dark auction room by the Seine in which he concluded the bargain.
There he examined it, off and on, all day and much of the next
morning, a light brown overcoat with tails, without discovering any
excuse, far less a reason, for having spent twenty pounds on so worn a
thing.  And late next morning to his sitting room looking out on the
Gardens of the Tuileries the man with the furious look was ushered in.

Grim he stood, silent and angry, till the guiding waiter went.  Not
till then did he speak, and his words came clear and brief, welling up
from deep emotions.

"How did you dare to bid against me?"

His name was Santiago.  And for many moments Peters found no excuse to
offer, no apology, nothing in extenuation.  Lamely at last, weakly,
knowing his argument to be of no avail, he muttered something to the
intent that Mr. Santiago could have outbid him.

"No," said the stranger.  "We don't want all the town in this.  This
is a matter between you and me."  He paused, then added in his fierce,
curt way: "A thousand pounds, no more."

Almost dumbly Peters accepted the offer and, pocketing the thousand
pounds that was paid him, and apologizing for the inconvenience he had
unwittingly caused, tried to show the stranger out.  But Santiago
strode swiftly on before him, taking the coat, and was gone.

There followed between Peters and his second thoughts another long
afternoon of bitter reproaches.  Why ever had he let go so
thoughtlessly of a garment that so easily fetched a thousand pounds?
And the more he brooded on this the more clearly did he perceive that
he had lost an unusual opportunity of a first class investment of a
speculative kind.  He knew men perhaps better than he knew materials;
and, though he could not see in that old brown coat the value of so
much as a thousand pounds, he saw far more than that in the man's
eager need for it.  An afternoon of brooding over lost opportunities
led to a night of remorse, and scarcely had day dawned when he ran to
his sitting-room to see if he still had safe the card of Santiago. And
there was the neat and perfumed _carte de visite_ with Santiago's
Parisian address in the corner.

That morning he sought him out, and found Santiago seated at a table
with chemicals and magnifying glasses beside him examining, as it lay
spread wide before him, the old brown coat.  And Peters fancied he
wore a puzzled air.

They came at once to business.  Peters was rich and asked Santiago to
name his price, and that small dark man admitted financial straits,
and so was willing to sell for thirty thousand pounds.  A little
bargaining followed, the price came down and the old brown coat
changed hands once more, for twenty thousand pounds.

Let any who may be inclined to doubt my story understand that in the
City, as any respectable company promoter will tell them, twenty
thousand pounds is invested almost daily with less return for it than
an old tail coat.  And, whatever doubts Mr. Peters felt that day about
the wisdom of his investment, there before him lay that tangible
return, that something that may be actually fingered and seen, which
is so often denied to the investor in gold mines and other Selected
Investments.  Yet as the days wore on and the old coat grew no
younger, nor any more wonderful, nor the least useful, but more and
more like an ordinary old coat, Peters began once more to doubt his
astuteness. With strangers you take together, as you notice, since it
examines its purpose in its favor, so they should use; alone with
friends, you're free to go: Man rests in her love, it allows a temper,
untamed effect The passion, and so we are the first hurt the
ones we love most zärt'sten.

Leonore. In view of this tranquil find 'ich dich very early, my
dear friend, with pleasure again. Antonio. Yes, I verdrießt - and I
confess' is like - that I am today without such degree lost. Solo
admit when a man with wackrer hot forehead of acidic work, And late
at night in the shadow-awaited new effort to rest and think, then,
by a wide dallier the shadows obsessed, he is not too little humanity
in the bosom feel? Leonore.

If he is quite human, he is also like the shadow of a man share the
rest of his sweet, easy to work through a conversation, by making
sounds Holde . The tree is wide, my friend, the shadow there, And no
need to oust the other. Antonio. We will, Eleanor, not a parable, and
play against. Gar are many things in this world, The man the other
treat and gladly agrees, however, it is a treasure which alone the
high Merited gladly indulge like another, one with the maximum Honored
With good will never be shared - And you ask me about these two
resources: the bay and it is the favor of women. Leonore. Does that
ring for our main the serious young man insulted? Would you For his
effort, his beautiful poetry Bescheidnern wage but can not find itself.
Because a merit, which is extraterrestrial, The floats through the
air, in tones only light images in our minds umgaukelt, - It is indeed
a beautiful picture, with a sign only rewarded Holden; And even
if he barely touched the ground, touching the highest pay him a
little head.

A barren branch is the gift, the admirer of the barren slope like Him
brings to light a debt Asc is discharged. You begrudge the image
of the martyr to the golden ticket Ums bare main probably difficult,
and certainly, the laurel wreath is where he appears to you, a
sign of more suffering than happiness. Antonio. Will around me thy mouth
liebenswürd'ger The vanity of the world Teaching despise? Leonore.
Every good after its value to appreciate, custom "I do not teach.
But, it seems, from time to time require such a way as much as
others, that his goods which he owns, in the right light show. You,
noble man, you will be connected to a Phantom Of Favor and honor
are not entitled to make . The service, which thou thy lord thee, With
your friends you connect, is acting, is alive, and so the wage must
also be real and alive.

Dein laurel is the princely Vertraun, The on your shoulders, as
love loads, frequent and easy to take rests, it is your glory, the
general Zutraun.

Antonio. And by the favor of women do you say nothing: the do you
want me but do not depict dispensable? Leonore. As it takes. For
you entbehrst they do not, and would be easier for you to spare them,
as they are that good man is not. Because sag 'succeed' is a woman,
when they By their nature, for you to provide dächte, With thee to
Employment ' gen unternähme? For you, everything is order, safety,
you make yourself as you care for others, you, give you what you
want. Busy That suited us in our times: He's missing a thousand
little things that were to create a woman likes endeavor. The most
beautiful linen, a silk dress with some embroidery, which he wears
like.

It looks like cleaned, much more, he can base substance that is only
the servant called to his body not tolerate Him everything is fine
and good and beautiful and noble stand. And yet he has no skill, all
of Getting to purchase if he owns it, Where to get: Always there
To him money to care. Soon as he leaves a piece, then one soon. He
never Turn back from a trip that was not a third part of his things
missing.

Soon Bestiehlt Serves him. So, Antonio, Is it possible for him all
year to make. Antonio.

And this concern makes him sweet and dear.

Glücksel'ger youth, which one its shortcomings expects to virtue,
which is so beautiful to see, The boys have a man to play, which
is his weakness Holden boast of!

You have to forgive me, a beautiful girlfriend, I also would be a
little bitter.

You say not everything, do not say what he dares, And that he is wiser
than how one thinks. He boasts two flames! Builds and solves the
knot now and then and win with such arts, such heart! Is it to believe
it? Leonore. Good!

Even the shows already, it just That friendship is what animates us,
and if we also love 'to love exchanged, we rewarded the beautiful
heart not cheap, the whole of himself and forgets gave Holden the
dream alive for his friends? Antonio. spoiled him and more and more and
more, let his love for Selbstigkeit apply insulted all the friends that
you devote With loyal soul, give tribute to the proud volunteers,
zerstöret throughout the beautiful district of socializing Vertrauns!

Leonore. We are not so partisan as you believe, exhort our friend, in
some cases, we want him to represent that he enjoys himself more and
more to enjoy the other can give. What to him is to blame, which
we have not concealed. Antonio. But it says much of what would be
blameworthy. I know him long, he is so easy to know and is too proud
to hide. Soon, he sinks into himself, as if the whole world in his
bosom, he is totally in his world enough, and everything disappears
rings around him. He lets it go, Lets's fall, there's out and rests
in itself - at once, unnoticed like a spark igniting the mine, whether
it be joy, sorrow, anger, or cricket, he breaks out violently:
then he wants to hold everything, hold everything ; Then geschehn
what he might think, in a moment should entstehn, What is preparing
for years should be lifted in the twinkling of an eye to what
little effort could solve in years.

He asks the impossible of themselves, thus it from another call allowed.
The last end of all things to His spirit together, and the succeeding
few among millions of people, And he is not the man he was last fall,
in order not improved, in itself back. Leonore. He does not harm
others, it hurts itself . Antonio. And yet others he hurt just too
much.

Can you deny that at the moment of passion, which he nimbly take it
to the prince, the princess himself, to whom it was to schmähn,
dares to blaspheme? Although currently only alone enough, the moment
comes again: He dominated his mouth as little as his chest. Leonore.
I should think, if he is from here on a short time away, should be 'It
is for him and others useful. Antonio. Maybe, maybe not. But now is not
just to remember, because I want the error does not invite to my
shoulders, it might seem that I have him distribute, distribution
And I 'do not.

To my Can he remain calm our court, and if he wants to reconcile
with me, And if he can follow my advice, so we will be able to live
quite reasonably.

Leonore. Well hope you have to use a mind to act, the dir recently,
seemed lost. Antonio. We always hope, and in all things is more hope
than despair. Because Who can calculate the possible? He is our
lord worth. He needs us to stay. And then we also nothing to him
He is not the einz'ge that we tolerate. Leonore. So without passion,
so impartially Believe 'I do not. You have quickly converted.
Antonio. The age but must have a preference, that if it is also
not miss the mistake, but it is on the point set.

You were, I am reconciled to thy friends, first endeavor. Now ask 'I
think it of you. Ta' what you can, that this man is found, And all
the same again soon. I even go to see him so soon from you I only
know that he is quiet, as soon as you think that my presence does not
increase the evil. But what you do, Das tu 'in this hour, as it is today
Alphons' evening, back, and I will' accompany him. Leb ', however,
probably. Fifth appearance Leonore (alone). For this, dear friend,
we are not one: My advantage and your still not go hand in hand. I make
the most of this time and looking to win Tasso. Quick! Fourth Lift
(room.) First appearance Tasso (alone). Are you awake from a dream,
and has the beautiful illusion you leave at once?

If you after a day of the highest pleasure A sleep tamed, and has now
ängstet using heavy Engage your soul? Yes, you wake up and dream. Where
are the hours that the order with your main flower wreaths played?
The days where your mind free of nostalgia permeated blue sky spread?
And yet you still live, and feel that you feel, and do not know
whether you live.

Is it my fault, it's of another fault, That I am here now as guilty in?
Hab 'ich crime that I should suffer? Is not my entire fault due? I
looked at him, and was on the good will, From the heart of the hasty
Hoffnungswahn: The was a man who bears a human look. I went in with
open arms and felt him lock and key, no chest. O hatt 'ich so klug me
out, I wanted to receive the man, From the ancient times was suspect
to me! With whatever you encounter is, So you believe in the certainty
that: I have seen! She stood before me you said to me, I've heard
it!

The look, the sound of the words holderFirstNames sense, you are my
forever, it robs it is not the time, the fate nor the wild luck!

And lifted my mind up too quickly since I left And all too soon in
my bosom The flame is air, which itself consumes me now, So I can
not gereun, and would be even on the eternal destiny of life out.

              I devoted myself to her and followed the happy Winke who called me
to perdition.

It is!

So hab 'ich mich doch worth of delicious Vertrauns shown that I'm
refreshed, even in this hour, refreshed, to me the black gate long
mourning period Forcefully opens .-- Yes, now it's done! It's
the sun I favor the most beautiful at once below, his view Holden Entziehet
my lord, and leave me here on düstrem, narrow path stehn lost.

The ugly poultry ambiguous, and vexing the wake 'of the old night,
raves, and is running me around the head. Wohin, wohin moving'
my step, to the disgust entfliehn, umsaust me, to escape the abyss
that lies before me? Second appearance Leonore. Tasso. Leonore.
What is addressed? Dear Tasso, you have your zeal, your suspicion so
driven and how it's geschehn? We all stand aghast. And your gentleness,
your pleasant nature, your quick glance, your mind right, By what
thou givest each belongs to him, your equanimity, the bear, to
endure what the Noble soon, the Eitle rarely learns the wise dominion
over the tongue and lip - My dear friend, almost completely ignored
'ich dich.

Tasso. And if all that would be lost now? If a friend that you once
believed rich, at once you would find as a beggar? Well hast thou Right,
I am no longer myself, and am still as good as I's was. It seems
a mystery, and yet it is none. The silent moon, you are delighted at
night, your eyes, your mind with his note Irresistible lures that he
floats on the Day An insignificant pale clouds out. I am the splendor
of the day seemed to Your Kennet me, I know I'm not anymore.

Leonore. What you're saying to me, my friend, understand ', I do not
how you say it . Explain yourself with me. Has the insult to the
rugged man hurt you so that you yourself and us How totally misjudge
like? Trust me. Tasso. I'm not offended, you see I am indeed punished,
because I have offended. The nodes of many words triggers the sword
Gar easily and quickly, but I'm trapped. You know hardly - erschrick
not, gentle friend - You meet a friend in a dungeon at. Mich
züchtiget the prince as a student. I want him not right, it can not.

Leonore.

You seem more than cheap moves. Tasso. Do you understand me so poorly
for as a child, That such a case could shatter like me? What
geschehn is not grieved me so deeply grieved me alone what it means
to me.

Neider Let my just giving my enemies! Clear and open the box. Leonore.
You have some even falsely suspected, - I myself can convince me -
And Antonio feindet thee not, As you can imagine it. Today's chagrin
- Tasso. Den let me be at hand, suppose only Antonio, as he was, and
how it remains. Sullen fell to me always stiff wisdom, And that he
always plays the master. Instead of researching whether Do not mind
the handset itself on good trail walk, he taught many of you, you
felt better and deeper, and hears not a word that you tell and you
will always misjudge. misunderstood to be misunderstood by an
arrogant, The smile you see to believe, I'm still not so old and
not so wise, That I should smile duldend against.

Early or late, it could not hold, we had to interrupt and later about
'if only to have been the worse. Mr. Discoverable 'I, the Lord feeds
me, the success of' I am happy, otherwise I will not master. I want
to be free in thought and in the densities: In the act restricts
the world enough us. Leonore. He speaks with respect often enough
of you. Tasso. With protection like you say, fine and wise.
verdrießt And it just me, because he knows So smooth, so to speak
conditionally, that his praise for ever blame, and that nothing more,
nothing deeper you hurt but praise from his lips. Leonore. Do you,
my friend, have heard, as he otherwise you spoke And the talent that
many imagine the kind nature gave. He feels sure that what you are and
do, and appreciates it, too. Tasso. O believe me, a selbstisches
mind Can not the agony of the narrow escape envy. Such a man forgives
another well assets, status and honor, because he thinks : Thou art
itself, which thou hast if thou wilt, If thou beharrst where you
happiness favors. But what nature alone adds, "What every effort,
every quest is always unattainable, which neither gold, nor sword,
nor wisdom, nor can Forcing perseverance, which he will never
verzeihn. He treat me? He, with a rigid sense of the favor of the
Muses ertrotzen to believe? The, if he thought some Zusammenreiht
poet, a poet himself seems? Far rather treat me the favor of princes,
which he liked to use but want to restrict itself, as the Talent
develops the Celestial to the poor, the orphaned young man said.

Leonore. O you saw so clearly, as I see it! You wrong yourself about
him: He is not. Tasso. And IRR 'I went to him, so IRR' I am happy, I
think 'it to me as my worst enemy And wär' inconsolable when I
think of him now would have mildly. Foolish is the man in all his
pieces cheap and it is His own self-destruction. Are the people against
us, because so cheap? No, oh no! The man needs in his narrow nature
of double sensation, love and hate. He need not be like the night
of the day? Des sleep like watching? No, I must from now on this man
as the object of my deepest hatred retain nothing can snatch me
the pleasure, bad and worse to think of him. Leonore. Will you, dear
friend, from your mind can not, seh 'I hardly How the court you want
to stay longer. You know how much it holds and must apply.

Tasso. How much I long, oh lovely girlfriend, here already superfluous
am, I know well. Leonore. That you're not, that can you never will!
You know a lot more, like how the Lord with thee, How happy the
princess lives with you, and is the sister of Urbino, it is almost as
much to deint than the sibling's sake.
Certainly Mandaroon was beautiful with her white pinnacles peering
over her ruddy walls and the green of her copper roofs.

When I came back again to the _Bird of the River_, I found the sailors
were returned to the ship. Soon we weighed anchor, and sailed out
again, and so came once more to the middle of the river. And now the
sun was moving towards his heights, and there had reached us on the
River Yann the song of those countless myriads of choirs that attend
him in his progress round the world. For the little creatures that
have many legs had spread their gauze wings easily on the air, as a
man rests his elbows on a balcony and gave jubilant, ceremonial
praises to the sun, or else they moved together on the air in wavering
dances intricate and swift, or turned aside to avoid the onrush of
some drop of water that a breeze had shaken from a jungle orchid,
chilling the air and driving it before it, as it fell whirring in its
rush to the earth; but all the while they sang triumphantly. "For the
day is for us," they said, "whether our great and sacred father the
Sun shall bring up more life like us from the marshes, or whether all
the world shall end to-night." And there sang all those whose notes
are known to human ears, as well as those whose far more numerous
notes have never been heard by man.

To these a rainy day had been as an era of war that should desolate
continents during all the lifetime of a man.

And there came out also from the dark and steaming jungle to behold
and rejoice in the Sun the huge and lazy butterflies. And they danced,
but danced idly, on the ways of the air, as some haughty queen of
distant conquered lands might in her poverty and exile dance, in some
encampment of the gipsies, for the mere bread to live by, but beyond
that would never abate her pride to dance for a fragment more.

And the butterflies sung of strange and painted things, of purple
orchids and of lost pink cities and the monstrous colours of the
jungle's decay. And they, too, were among those whose voices are not
discernible by human ears. And as they floated above the river, going
from forest to forest, their splendour was matched by the inimical
beauty of the birds who darted out to pursue them. Or sometimes they
settled on the white and wax-like blooms of the plant that creeps and
clambers about the trees of the forest; and their purple wings flashed
out on the great blossoms as, when the caravans go from Nurl to Thace,
the gleaming silks flash out upon the snow, where the crafty merchants
spread them one by one to astonish the mountaineers of the Hills of
Noor.

But upon men and beasts the sun sent a drowsiness. The river monsters
along the river's marge lay dormant in the slime. The sailors pitched
a pavilion, with golden tassels, for the captain upon the deck, and
then went, all but the helmsman, under a sail that they had hung as an
awning between two masts. Then they told tales to one another, each of
his own city or of the miracles of his god, until all were fallen
asleep. The captain offered me the shade of his pavilion with the gold
tassels, and there we talked for a while, he telling me that he was
taking merchandise to Perdóndaris, and that he would take back to fair
Belzoond things appertaining to the affairs of the sea. Then, as I
watched through the pavilion's opening the brilliant birds and
butterflies that crossed and recrossed over the river, I fell asleep,
and dreamed that I was a monarch entering his capital underneath
arches of flags, and all the musicians of the world were there,
playing melodiously their instruments; but no one cheered.

In the afternoon, as the day grew cooler again, I awoke and found the
captain buckling on his scimitar, which he had taken off him while he
rested.

And now we were approaching the wide court of Astahahn, which opens
upon the river. Strange boats of antique design were chained there to
the steps. As we neared it we saw the open marble court, on three
sides of which stood the city fronting on colonnades. And in the court
and along the colonnades the people of that city walked with solemnity
and care according to the rites of ancient ceremony. All in that city
was of ancient device; the carving on the houses, which, when age had
broken it remained unrepaired, was of the remotest times, and
everywhere were represented in stone beasts that have long since
passed away from Earth--the dragon, the griffin, and the hippogriffin,
and the different species of gargoyle. Nothing was to be found,
whether material or custom, that was new in Astahahn. Now they took no
notice at all of us as we went by, but continued their processions and
ceremonies in the ancient city, and the sailors, knowing their custom,
took no notice of them. But I called, as we came near, to one who
stood beside the water's edge, asking him what men did in Astahahn and
what their merchandise was, and with whom they traded. He said, "Here
we have fettered and manacled Time, who would otherwise slay the
gods."

I asked him what gods they worshipped in that city, and he said, "All
those gods whom Time has not yet slain." Then he turned from me and
would say no more, but busied himself in behaving in accordance with
ancient custom. And so, according to the will of Yann, we drifted
onwards and left Astahahn, and we found in greater quantities such
birds as prey on fishes. And they were very wonderful in their
plumage, and they came not out of the jungle, but flew, with their
long necks stretched out before them, and their legs lying on the wind
behind straight up the river over the mid-stream.

And now the evening began to gather in. A thick white mist had
appeared over the river, and was softly rising higher. It clutched at
the trees with long impalpable arms, it rose higher and higher,
chilling the air; and white shapes moved away into the jungle as
though the ghosts of shipwrecked mariners were searching stealthily in
the darkness for the spirits of evil that long ago had wrecked them on
the Yann.

As the sun sank behind the field of orchids that grew on the matted
summit of the jungle, the river monsters came wallowing out of the
slime in which they had reclined during the heat of the day, and the
great beasts of the jungle came down to drink. The butterflies a while
since were gone to rest. In little narrow tributaries that we passed
night seemed already to have fallen, though the sun which had
disappeared from us had not yet set.

And now the birds of the jungle came flying home far over us, with the
sunlight glistening pink upon their breasts, and lowered their pinions
as soon as they saw the Yann, and dropped into the trees. And the
widgeon began to go up the river in great companies, all whistling,
and then would suddenly wheel and all go down again. And there shot by
us the small and arrow-like teal; and we heard the manifold cries of
flocks of geese, which the sailors told me had recently come in from
crossing over the Lispasian ranges; every year they come by the same
way, close by the peak of Mluna, leaving it to the left, and the
mountain eagles know the way they come and--men say--the very hour,
and every year they expect them by the same way as soon as the snows
have fallen upon the Northern Plains. But soon it grew so dark that we
saw these birds no more, and only heard the whirring of their wings,
and of countless others besides, until they all settled down along the
banks of the river, and it was the hour when the birds of the night
went forth. Then the sailors lit the lanterns for the night, and huge
moths appeared, flapping about the ship, and at moments their gorgeous
colours would be revealed by the lanterns, then they would pass into
the night again, where all was black. And again the sailors prayed,
and thereafter we supped and slept, and the helmsman took our lives
into his care.

When I awoke I found that we had indeed come to Perdóndaris, that
famous city. For there it stood upon the left of us, a city fair and
notable, and all the more pleasant for our eyes to see after the
jungle that was so long with us. And we were anchored by the
marketplace, and the captain's merchandise was all displayed, and a
merchant of Perdóndaris stood looking at it. And the captain had his
scimitar in his hand, and was beating with it in anger upon the deck,
and the splinters were flying up from the white planks; for the
merchant had offered him a price for his merchandise that the captain
declared to be an insult to himself and his country's gods, whom he
now said to be great and terrible gods, whose curses were to be
dreaded. But the merchant waved his hands, which were of great
fatness, showing his pink palms, and swore that of himself he thought
not at all, but only of the poor folk in the huts beyond the city to
whom he wished to sell the merchandise for as low a price as possible,
leaving no remuneration for himself. For the merchandise was mostly
the thick toomarund carpets that in the winter keep the wind from the
floor, and tollub which the people smoke in pipes. Therefore the
merchant said if he offered a piffek more the poor folk must go
without their toomarunds when the winter came, and without their
tollub in the evenings, or else he and his aged father must starve
together. Thereat the captain lifted his scimitar to his own throat,
saying that he was now a ruined man, and that nothing remained to him
but death. And while he was carefully lifting he beard with his left
hand, the merchant eyed the merchandise again, and said that rather
than see so worthy a captain die, a man for whom he had conceived an
especial love when first he saw the manner in which he handled his
ship, he and his aged father should starve together and therefore he
offered fifteen piffeks more.

When he said this the captain prostrated himself and prayed to his
gods that they might yet sweeten this merchant's bitter heart--to his
little lesser gods, to the gods that bless Belzoond.

At last the merchant offered yet five piffeks more. Then the captain
wept, for he said that he was deserted of his gods; and the merchant
also wept, for he said that he was thinking of his aged father, and of
how soon he would starve, and he hid his weeping face with both his
hands, and eyed the tollub again between his fingers. And so the
bargain was concluded, and the merchant took the toomarund and tollub,
paying for them out of a great clinking purse. Indication of the second
floor and part of the first Castle Aljafería in Saragossa.] ESPLICACION.
1. Rediente. 2. Moat. 3. Anden. 4. Puente. 5. Main entrance. 6. Body
of accommodation and rooms in the 2nd. º piso. 7. Ascent to the fourth
official on duty and mezzanines. 8. First courtyard. 9. Church. 10.
Portico. 11. Step 2. Courtyard º. 12. Second courtyard. 13. Entrance
to the main staircase. 14. Main staircase. 15. Large patio Artillery.
16. Hollow of a ladder. 17. Cocinas troops. 18. Store ammunition.
19. Corridor. R. Real rooms. C. Salon de Santa Isabel. Y. Ground floor
of the old Mosque. Y. Bedroom where he was born Santa Isabel Infanta
of Aragon and Queen of Portugal. THE QUEEN OF SPAIN. My dedication
will begin with a word similar to those used at the beginning of their
Labruyére famous Character. Back, they said, the public what he has
given me, and I also say, to restore a VM site that belongs to you,
that inspired the VM, the VM that was undertaken, and that anyone a
better title that Isabel falls this booklet, which aims to address the
greatness of a building, whose memory perpetuating two queens of
the same name: the one sanctified, so to speak, with birth and the
other decorated with a magnificence that cause admiration after
three and a half centuries.

Dígnese therefore accept a VM offering, which is governed by the
subject matter, and that also has this quality by pure love that
professes to his kingdom which he wrote these pages misaligned. Saragossa
July 28, 1845. Madam, PALRP VM _Mariano Nougués Secall._ CHAPTER
FIRST. OVERVIEW OF Aljafería. Aljafería Castle, which can not be called
by your city or location, nor by its fortifications, is located to the
western part of Saragossa to the right of the Ebro, between the river
and the concurrence of the Camino Real Madrid and Pamplona, as far
as little online that can be seen as tangential to pit almost to the
level of this and at the foot of the embankment that form the facade
is estiende the Ebro valley that runs up to a distance of eight yards
á nuevecientas soon, and in parallel. As far as the East about two
hundred fifty yards from the gate called Portillo's heading or angle
of the bastion of the south facade. The plane is accompanied by the
number 1. Th gives an idea of their situation with regard to the city
and her garden, and also its shape and proportions, but not enough
to make the flow of the Ebro The plant is currently Aljafería square
one hundred and forty yards long and one hundred thirty of wide
angles or chamfers ochava more irregular of what seems, on whose
foundations were built parallel north and south facades of the first
thirteen hundred yards long, and fourteen percent of the second,
on the high side or perpendicular rises in the west facade of the
length of one hundred beam, and throughout the remaining oblique
supports the main facade to the east forming the south angle of
ninety-seven degrees.

His great interior is lit and ventilated by five yards and caught
different patinejos without some symmetry in their placement with respect
to others, although its plants are quite regular. The three are more
spacious, the first coming in through the main gate of the twenty-five
yards of it, which is the church square of eighteen yards out. For
this and heading to the west gate is reported to 2. º, which is the
center or the Santa Isabel, rectangle eighteen rods from east to
west for thirty-two from north to south. Communicates with the 3. º
(the west or the petty,) trapeze long from north to south fifty-six
yards in length by twenty-eight proportional latitude or altitude.
This large patio is the entrance to another location in the South ,
rectangle sixteen yards in length from east to west by eight latitude.
The last is from the double crugías obtuse angle, or forming the south
and east facades is a rectangle thirty-two yards in length from
north to south by eighteen latitude increased side sud to twenty-five
rods west on the way in which escuadría its incoming angle to the
twenty-two yards of its length, this being understood in terms
ignografía the globe of the building habitable. CHAPTER II. _DIVERSIDAD
YOUR ARQUITECTURA_ and times the same: FORTIFIED & c. In this building
show four different kinds of plant, which reflect major changes that
had already undergone repairs and modification, and finally made it
increases, each carrying a label marked the time they checked.
The oldest is the Saracen domination and are advertised in a local
mosque was undoubtedly ú oratory of their sovereign, and the remains
of three arches are preserved in the southern part of the courtyard
named Santa Isabel. At the time that mediated since the kings of Aragon
took over the palace until the Catholic Kings, it must belong to is
the artillery corps in the courtyard of Santa Isabel to warehouses
and ochava columns or pillars which are at the northern side. Al reign
of the Catholic Monarchs D. Fernando and Queen Isabel are the
staircase and room régia, entry, coffered salons and other agencies.
The rest of the building will be advised of the time of Philip V.
hereinafter expressly whose reign is more marked in high-stress
military trophies, which are seen on the entrance to the lower
number of artillery almacen 4 down from here to the great suffering
that was renovacion forth, and that completed in 1772 [2], by which
time all the ornaments are from outside the halls of the east side,
the arms room and the barracks of the west, north and south.

The bell tower, or even appear to be more modern, and the church can not
be fixed allocate time to participate in different characters. The
limits of this old building had to be less than in the Este dia, and
the increase was recently renovacion in 1772 was apparently on the
side of the bottom of the flags, to the west, north and south
headquarters of the three sides: and so we presume it does with
over a foundation wall rather thick, which is usually inside the
length of those barracks, with a tower high in low circular building
in the north, another in the west, another in the south and another
in the angle formed north of west, leaving all four hidden inside
the building.

[image: Lam. 2nd. Geometric view of the main façade of the castle in
Zaragoza Aljaferia.] Its brick factory was seen to face in their
outer walls, and even in many of the inside, although the interior is
also noticed some of earth and gravel, showing the various stages of
the construction of this palace: its architecture is quite simple,
since the decoration is generally perpendicular strips in imitation
of their openings between pilasters, cut horizontally by other narrow
or listellos running throughout the building showing the division
their floors. The windows are of a serious, and other adornments
that do not bear a simple framework without any molding, with the
exception of the main facade, which are distributed crugía flags and
official gefes with balconies decorated with moldings and frames
frontispieces, The architecture may correspond to the eighteen
century, and will surely be addressed in the last renovation was
done in this building in 1772 as has been shown, in which year he
was given the plant that retains today, there is very little time of
the Moors and of the kings of Aragon. His look is elegant and graceful
on the part of the city and is still remarkably enhanced the church
tower.

The stamp 2. º presented with their image or likeness on its front
facade. FORTIFIED His current insignificant but it would defend its
large pit, just as it is built on his four barbette curtains on the
wall of the escarpment, which is moving from building five rods, and
forming a covered walk way that runs around the perimeter. The
bastions of the four corners were destroyed in 1813 and 14 gives
the front of the cavalry barracks, blew in 1813 when the Spanish
army besieged the castle, where the general had left Paris a short
Crew: commander of French artillery, as I heard, a shot fired on
ammunition, and jumped fact that Rebellin pieces: the remaining
part of the landfill and waste pit by an order issued by General
Wellington to destroy the forts were occupied by French.

    His sole was once a brick bridge and now fixed another timber that
has been repaired by direct claim to the ministry of His Excellency
General D.

    Manuel Breton. The head is enclosed by a rake is taken by a rediente
    loopholes for fusileria, where there is a body guard for an
    advance, and to the right and left two rakes in the two ramps soft
    in latitude five rods lead to pit. This is good and has a width of
    twenty-six to twenty-seven yards in the entire circumference,
    except in the main facade which has about twenty-eight: its depth
is about eight yards soon: counterscarp perpendicular to the
escarpment and the first Good factory brick and masonry, and the
second coated and has revoked a few years.

    The construction of the moat, but no data on the time of Mr D.

    Felipe V who turned this building into strength.

Spot of this defense did not exist in time of Philip II even if there
wall [3], which are vestiges, as noted, because when the people of
Saragossa rod during the translation of Antonio Perez from prison
Castle expressed Aljafería, he was fire everywhere, surrounding
more than three thousand men shouting, which scorched the inquisitors
would die there. [4] The fact is that, as I have said the engineers,
in some parts of the building discovered traces of fire, and note
the use of different kind of wood that were used in its original
construction.

Mr.

Mignet Academy of French history that recently published by Antonio
Perez and Philip II did not express the fact that the
castle was burned, only referring to Pedro Sesé had done much to
drive carts of firewood in the attempt to paste Fire Aljafería [5].

Nor Lupercio Argensola of Leonardo in his information about these
events does merit of this peculiarity. It seems to me a calculation
that this building may contain or accommodate some three thousand people.
CHAPTER THREE. Description of the special parts of this building: the
old mosque from the Board of Santa Isabel and immediate: entries are
read in the friezes & c. Following the description of the parts of
the building shall say that the step that serves as the lobby from
the main gate to the first yard (the church) is covered with
a vault of elliptical plate, the arc of the iceberg below toral
da opposite the entrance, is adorned with the royal arms of Spain:
on the left of this entrance is located the main body of the Castle
Guard, and on the mezzanine floor to the first landing of the stairs
leading to the wards for a few years ago to arrest, is the chamber
of gefe or gefes the guard: it has bars that overlook the site of
the City and another that gives the patio door on the guard's body
to communicate with it opportunity orders.

To the right of the main entrance there is a patinel, where are the
bars of some prisons. CHURCH OF THE PATIO. Is this the factory
courtyard or a variety of different construction periods, although
all of any age: the facade on arch that leads into the courtyard of the
Center or Santa Isabel, looks more modern, and some corrections are
noted, particularly in the voids of the balcony of the royal
chamber, with the corrections that have been destroyed the elegant
decorations that existed before, and of which only fragments retain
some weapons and shields. Below the royal chamber is located a floor
octagon diameter of 26 spans, and its eight sides are raised so many
different angles, forming arches straight except one that is
horseshoe-shaped.

All were supported by two marble columns from nine spans in height,
which still exists but the most battered and maimed, the white
marble at the moment according to the surveys that have been made,
it appears from the quarries of Alcañiz.

Entrepaños and paintings from the walls are decorated by the style of
the Alhambra, with openwork arabesque climbs and merit careful and
egecucion: despite the many centuries that have elapsed and they
have suffered by the vicissitudes that are consequential, be seen in
them taste, wealth and beauty at the same finesse and painstaking work.
At eighteen inch of elevation is a roof under which mutilated the
height of that stay, therefore he continues on the same run with a
frieze, decorated with the same height, crowned with another body
easier, resting on the columns spans four and a half high, pointed
arches formed holding festoons of semicircular, finishing the remains
of this mosque fourteen spans of that floor, which is the actual
room where he was born SANTA ISABEL.

In the part of the West but direction to the east is a niche or hole [6]
to the input provided by the horseshoe arch covered with a shell, where
it is assumed that there was a baptism: but even if time was placed on
restoration, it is clear that this was the place where prayer to the
Moorish kings, as it was his particular mosque or oratory. It is well
known that the Arabs regarded with the utmost scrupulousness prayer
meeting called _salath_ or _namaz_ constituted all his divine office,
which also saw the divine. [7] This confirmed to me the idea to be
a condition of this prayer, that the position of the body is looking
to Mecca and to fully address this niche is to the east, and also
that, despite not being obliged by law to go to the mosque, most
accustomed to check it, so it is not regular kings no longer strictly
comply with this requirement [8].

To which he is instructed in the mysteries of ancient times, this
assertion can not give any doubt, much less whether it sets the view
in the film is followed by the 172 page tome 1. _Condes º of Barcelona
vindicados_, work written by Mr.

D. Próspero Bofarull. The above represents the lamina or Mihrab
frontispiece of worship inside the mosque in the city of Tarragona.
This monument, says this writer, was erected in the year 960 of our
own, is of marble and is kept almost entirely in the cloister of
the Holy Church Metropolitan Tarragona docked in the curtain
wall of the west side of that relates to Count Abderraman III
ordered the construction of the arch and put Crane's Mibrab or
shrine inside the main mosque in Tarragona, which was very close
second or signs on the premises it occupies today its grand cathedral,
which the Holy Archbishop Olegario principle for the years 1128 .

This arch is a great resemblance to that found in the mosque
Castle Aljafería and the comparison of the two amounts to a degree
unquestionable evidence of my remarks. For further checking and
to keep this memorial a reminder of Arabic, I have the stamp lithography
3. º, in which portraits were part of the beauty of a mosque almost
completely unknown until recently in and out of Saragossa. The
Church is currently located at an angle to the right of the entrance
to the courtyard, opposite the royal chamber. Its square is coming
soon, as is a rectangle spans ninety latitude by eighty-four deep,
with three naves cross twenty-six and a half spans. The pillars that
divide or machon are simple, lined with Doric columns out of proportion,
bases or sockets: the capitals are for all their letterheads, and
on them serves as a peqaeña architrave, imposta pointed to the roof
edge by a simple molding in their bows, and in each of the nine
points in a three-star gold palm diameter bars are Aragon.

The Atrium located in the center of the ship and rowed on the altar is
a wooden fence that ends in a semicircle . The altar at the center of
the nave in front of the door under the arch that forms a small chapel,
is an altarpiece of Corinthian order of architecture in wood and old
gold. Its niche is in S. Martin titalar army of this parish, modern
sculpture, on horseback in Roman tragedy, representing the action
of dividing his cloak with the sword to give to a beggar.

This figure is quite regular, and S. Martin would be complete, if your
attitude was more animated, and the steed is replicated over the
arrogance of a hobbyhorse. To the left of the altar is full length to
S. Pius V, and right at Blessed Benedict X, the two statues of life
size and quite good.

Long we
should meet no more, for my fancy is weakening as the years slip by,
and I go ever more seldom into the Lands of Dream. Then we clasped
hands, uncouthly on his part, for it is not the method of greeting in
his country, and he commended my soul to the care of his own gods, to
his little lesser gods, the humble ones, to the gods that bless
Belzoond.


A SHOP IN GO-BY STREET

I said I must go back to Yann again and see if _Bird of the River_
still plies up and down and whether her bearded captain commands her
still or whether he sits in the gate of fair Belzoond drinking at
evening the marvellous yellow wine that the mountaineer brings down
from the Hian Min.  And I wanted to see the sailors again who came
from Durl and Duz and to hear from their lips what befell Perdóndaris
when its doom came up without warning from the hills and fell on that
famous city.  And I wanted to hear the sailors pray at night each to
his own god, and to feel the wind of the evening coolly arise when the
sun went flaming away from that exotic river.  For I thought never
again to see the tide of Yann, but when I gave up politics not long
ago the wings of my fancy strengthened, though they had erstwhile
drooped, and I had hopes of coming behind the East once more where
Yann like a proud white war-horse goes through the Lands of Dream.

Yet I had forgotten the way to those little cottages on the edge of
the fields we know whose upper windows, though dim with antique
cobwebs, look out on the fields we know not and are the starting-point
of all adventure in all the Lands of Dream.

I therefore made enquiries.  And so I came to be directed to the shop
of a dreamer who lives not far from the Embankment in the City. Among
so many streets as there are in the city it is little wonder that
there is one that has never been seen before; it is named Go-by Street
and runs out of the Strand if you look very closely.  Now when you
enter this man's shop you do not go straight to the point but you ask
him to sell you something, and if it is anything with which he can
supply you he hands it you and wishes you good-morning.  It is his
way.  And many have been deceived by asking for some unlikely thing,
such as the oyster-shell from which was taken one of those single
pearls that made the gates of Heaven in Revelations, and finding that
the old man had it in stock.

He was comatose when I went into the shop, his heavy lids almost
covered his little eyes; he sat, and his mouth was open.  I said, "I
want some of Abama and Pharpah, rivers of Damascus."  "How much?" he
said.  "Two and a half yards of each, to be delivered to my flat."
"That is very tiresome," he muttered, "very tiresome.  We do not stock
it in that quantity."  "Then I will take all you have," I said.

He rose laboriously and looked among some bottles.  I saw one
labelled: Nilos, river of Ægyptos; and others Holy Ganges, Phlegethon,
Jordan; I was almost afraid he had it, when I heard him mutter again,
"This is very tiresome," and presently he said, "We are out of it."
"Then," I said, "I wish you to tell me the way to those little
cottages in whose upper chambers poets look out upon the fields we
know not, for I wish to go into the Land of Dream and to sail once
more upon mighty, sea-like Yann."

At that he moved heavily and slowly in way-worn carpet slippers,
panting as he went, to the back part of his shop, and I went with him.
This was a dingy lumber-room full of idols: the near end was dingy and
dark but at the far end was a blue cærulean glow in which stars seemed
to be shining and the heads of the idols glowed. "This," said the fat
old man in carpet slippers, "is the heaven of the gods who sleep."  I
asked him what gods slept and he mentioned names that I had never
heard as well as names that I knew.  "All those," he said, "that are
not worshipped now are asleep."

"Then does Time not kill the gods?" I said to him and he answered,
"No. But for three or four thousand years a god is worshipped and for
three or four he sleeps.  Only Time is wakeful always."

"But they that teach us of new gods"--I said to him, "are they not
new?"

"They hear the old ones stirring in their sleep being about to wake,
because the dawn is breaking and the priests crow.  These are the
happy prophets: unhappy are they that hear some old god speak while he
sleeps still being deep in slumber, and prophesy and prophesy and no
dawn comes, they are those that men stone saying, 'Prophesy where this
stone shall hit you, and this.'"

"Then shall Time never slay the gods," I said.  And he answered, "They
shall die by the bedside of the last man.  Then Time shall go mad in
his solitude and shall not know his hours from his centuries of years
and they shall clamour round him crying for recognition and he shall
lay his stricken hands on their heads and stare at them blindly and
say, 'My children, I do not know you one from another,' and at these
words of Time empty worlds shall reel."

And for some while then I was silent, for my imagination went out into
those far years and looked back at me and mocked me because I was the
creature of a day.

Suddenly I was aware by the old man's heavy breathing that he had gone
to sleep.  It was not an ordinary shop: I feared lest one of his gods
should wake and call for him: I feared many things, it was so dark,
and one or two of those idols were something more than grotesque.  I
shook the old man hard by one of his arms.

"Tell me the way to the cottages," I said, "on the edge of the fields
we know."

"I don't think we can do that," he said.

"Then supply me," I said, "with the goods."

That brought him to his senses.  He said, "You go out by the back door
and turn to the right"; and he opened a little, old, dark door in the
wall through which I went, and he wheezed and shut the door. The back
of the shop was of incredible age.  I saw in antique characters upon a
mouldering board, "Licensed to sell weasels and jade earrings."  The
sun was setting now and shone on little golden spires that gleamed
along the roof which had long ago been thatched and with a wonderful
straw.  I saw that the whole of Go-by Street had the same strange
appearance when looked at from behind.  The pavement was the same as
the pavement of which I was weary and of which so many thousand miles
lay the other side of those houses, but the street was of most pure
untrampled grass with such marvellous flowers in it that they lured
downward from great heights the flocks of butterflies as they traveled
by, going I know not whence.  The other side of the street there was
pavement again but no houses of any kind, and what there was in place
of them I did not stop to see, for I turned to my right and walked
along the back of Go-by Street till I came to the open fields and the
gardens of the cottages that I sought.  Huge flowers went up out of
these gardens like slow rockets and burst into purple blooms and stood
there huge and radiant on six-foot stalks and softly sang strange
songs.  Others came up beside them and bloomed and began singing too.
A very old witch came out of her cottage by the back door and into the
garden in which I stood.

"What are these wonderful flowers?" I said to her.

"Hush!  Hush!" she said, "I am putting the poets to bed.  These
flowers are their dreams."

And in a lower voice I said: "What wonderful songs are they singing?"
and she said, "Be still and listen."

And I listened and found they were singing of my own childhood and of
things that happened there so far away that I had quite forgotten them
till I heard the wonderful song.

"Why is the song so faint?" I said to her.

"Dead voices," she said, "Dead voices," and turned back again to her
cottage saying: "Dead voices" still, but softly for fear that she
should wake the poets.  "They sleep so badly while they live," she
said.

I stole on tiptoe upstairs to the little room from whose windows,
looking one way, we see the fields we know and, looking another, those
hilly lands that I sought--almost I feared not to find them.  I looked
at once toward the mountains of faëry; the afterglow of the sunset
flamed on them, their avalanches flashed on their violet slopes coming
down tremendous from emerald peaks of ice; and there was the old gap
in the blue-grey hills above the precipice of amethyst whence one sees
the Lands of Dream.

All was still in the room where the poets slept when I came quietly
down.  The old witch sat by a table with a lamp, knitting a splendid
cloak of gold and green for a king that had been dead a thousand
years.

"Is it any use," I said, "to the king that is dead that you sit and
knit him a cloak of gold and green?"

"Who knows?" she said.

"What a silly question to ask," said her old black cat who lay curled
by the fluttering fire.

Already the stars were shining on that romantic land when I closed the
witch's door; already the glow-worms were mounting guard for the night
around those magical cottages.  I turned and trudged for the gap in
the blue-grey mountains.

Already when I arrived some colour began to show in the amethyst
precipice below the gap although it was not yet morning.  I heard a
rattling and sometimes caught a flash from those golden dragons far
away below me that are the triumph of the goldsmiths of Sirdoo and
were given life by the ritual incantations of the conjurer Amargrarn.
On the edge of the opposite cliff, too near I thought for safety, I
saw the ivory palace of Singanee that mighty elephant-hunter; small
lights appeared in windows, the slaves were awake, and beginning with
heavy eyelids the work of the day.

And now a ray of sunlight topped the world.  Others than I must
describe how it swept from the amethyst cliff the shadow of the black
one that opposed it, how that one shaft of sunlight pierced the
amethyst for leagues, and how the rejoicing colour leaped up to
welcome the light and shot back a purple glow on the walls of the
palace of ivory while down in that incredible ravine the golden
dragons still played in the darkness.

At this moment a female slave came out by a door of the palace and
tossed a basket-full of sapphires over the edge.  And when day was
manifest on those marvellous heights and the flare of the amethyst
precipice filled the abyss, then the elephant-hunter arose in his
ivory palace and took his terrific spear and going out by a landward
door went forth to avenge Perdóndaris

I turned then and looked upon the lands of Dream, and the thin white
mist that never rolls quite away was shifting in the morning. Rising
like isles above it I saw the Hills of Hap and the city of copper,
old, deserted Bethmoora, and Utnar Véhi and Kyph and Mandaroon and the
wandering leagues of Yann.  Rather I guessed than saw the Hian Min
whose imperturbable and aged heads scarce recognize for more than
clustered mounds the round Acroctian hills, that are heaped about
their feet and that shelter, as I remembered, Durl and Duz.  But most
clearly I discerned that ancient wood through which one going down to
the bank of Yann whenever the moon is old may come on _Bird of the
River_ anchored there, waiting three days for travellers, as has been
prophesied of her.  And as it was now that season I hurried down from
the gap in the blue-grey hills by an elfin path that was coeval with
fable, and came by means of it to the edge of the wood.  Black though
the darkness was in that ancient wood the beasts that moved in it were
blacker still.  It is very seldom that any dreamer travelling in Lands
of Dream is ever seized by these beasts, and yet I ran; for if a man's
spirit is seized in the Lands of Dream his body may survive it for
many years and well know the beasts that mouthed him far away and the
look in their little eyes and the smell of their breath; that is why
the recreation field at Hanwell is so dreadfully trodden into restless
paths.

And so I came at last to the sea-like flood of proud, tremendous Yann,
with whom there tumbled streams from incredible lands--with these he
went by singing.  Singing he carried drift-wood and whole trees,
fallen in far-away, unvisited forests, and swept them mightily by, but
no sign was there either out in the river or in the olden anchorage
near by of the ship I came to see.

And I built myself a hut and roofed it over with the huge abundant
leaves of a marvellous weed and ate the meat that grows on the
targar-tree and waited there three days.  And all day long the river
tumbled by and all night long the tolulu-bird sang on and the huge
fireflies had no other care than to pour past in torrents of dancing
sparks, and nothing rippled the surface of the Yann by day and nothing
disturbed the tolulu-bird by night.  I know not what I feared for the
ship I sought and its friendly captain who came from fair Belzoond and
its cheery sailors out of Durl and Duz; all day long I looked for it
on the river and listened for it by night until the dancing fireflies
danced me to sleep.  Three times only in those three nights the
tolulu-bird was scared and stopped his song, and each time I awoke
with a start and found no ship and saw that he was only scared by the
dawn.  Those indescribable dawns upon the Yann came up like flames in
some land over the hills where a magician burns by secret means
enormous amethysts in a copper pot.  I used to watch them in wonder
while no bird sang--till all of a sudden the sun came over a hill and
every bird but one began to sing, and the tolulu-bird slept fast, till
out of an opening eye he saw the stars.

I would have waited three more days, but on the third day I had gone
in my loneliness to see the very spot where first I met _Bird of the
River_ at her anchorage with her bearded captain sitting on the deck.
And as I looked at the black mud of the harbour and pictured in my
mind that band of sailors whom I had not seen for two years, I saw an
old hulk peeping from the mud.  The lapse of centuries seemed partly
to have rotted and partly to have buried in the mud all but the prow
of the boat and on the prow I faintly saw a name.  I read it slowly--
it was _Bird of the River._ And then I knew that, while in Ireland and
London two years had barely passed over my head, ages had gone over
the region of Yann and wrecked and rotted that once familiar ship, and
buried years ago the bones of the youngest of my friends, who so often
sang to me of Durl and Duz or told the dragon-legends of Belzoond.
For beyond the world we know there roars a hurricane of centuries
whose echo only troubles--though sorely--our fields; while elsewhere
there is calm. I stayed a moment by that battered hulk and said a
prayer for whatever may be immortal of those who were wont to sail it
down the Yann, and I prayed for them to the gods to whom they loved to
pray, to the little lesser gods that bless Belzoond.  I am looking Tasso,
which I never do, And take him - even here when you not to. Can you
give it to me no message? Princess. I saw him yesterday, little, not
today. Alphons. There is an old mistake that he is more solitude than
the society studied. Verzeih 'I gave him when he colorful swarm of
people fleeing rather freely and quietly with his spirit may be
entertained, but I can not praise that he himself avoids the circle,
the close friends. Leonore. Erro 'I do not, you will be soon, O Lord,
the rebuke of praise in a happy turn. I saw him today from a distance,
he kept a book and a blackboard, wrote and wrote and went. A
volatile word he said to me yesterday, seemed to me his work completed
anzukünden. He cares only small moves to improve order your bounty,
which granted him so much, finally a worthy sacrifice darzubringen.
Alphons. He should be welcome if it brings And go talk to for a long
time.

So I am very partial to his work, so much in some sense the great
work I am pleased and happy must be so much more also as the
impatience in me.

He can not, we can not be done, He always changing, slowly flick
before, there is again quiet, he goes behind the hope, unwilling,
you can see the enjoyment away late in time, so close you believed.
princess.

I praise the humility, the concern, what he step prior step to the
objectives.

Only through the favor of the Muses align themselves So many rhymes
firmly together into one, And its soul has only this drive, it
should be to the whole poem REASONS.

Mährchen He does not want to pile on Mährchen, The irritant entertain
How loose and last words just fade away fooled.

Let him, my brother!

Because it is the time from good works is not the measure; And if
posterity should enjoy with, So must the artist Mitwelt forget.

Alphons. Let us, dear sister, act, How we both benefit often did, when
I 'm too busy, so you Lindre: And you're too mildly, I will drive.
We then see him at once, perhaps at a destination where we have many
'desired sehn.

Then the Fatherland, it will surprise the world, what a work has
been completed.

I take my part of the glory of them, And he will be introduced into life.
A noble man can not close its educational circles thanks. And Homeland
world must act on it. Fame and blame he must learn to endure. Himself
and others he is legally obliged to know. Him not the weight
of loneliness more flattering. It wants the enemy - it can not save
the friend, then the young man streitend exercise his powers, Feel
what it is, and soon feels a man Leonore. So you, Lord, for him to
do everything as you so far for him a lot done. It is a talent in
the silence, Of a character in the stream in the world. O that he had
his mind as his art to illustrate your lessons! The fact that he did
not avoid people longer, that his suspicions, not least in fear and
hatred transform! Alphons. The only people afraid of who she does not
know, And who shun them, they will soon ignore. This is his case,
and so after a free mind confused and shackled. He is often worried
about my favor, far more than it ziemte; against many, he has a mis
Traunviertel which, I know it sure is not his enemies. Meets yes, that
is a lost letter, that a servant from his service in another is the
fact that a paper comes out of his hands, he sees the same intention,
sees treachery and perfidy which undermines his fate. Princess. Let
us, dear brother, Do not forget, that of himself man can not be
distinguished. And when a friend who should walk with us to get a
damaged foot, but we would prefer to go slow and our hands to him
willingly and gladly borrow. Alphons. Besser wär's, If we could heal
him, rather just loyal to the Council of the doctor tried a cure,
then cured with the glad new way of life were fresh. hoff But I, my
dears, that I never the fault of the doctor's rough on me do. I do
what I can to provide security Zutraun And his bosom einzuprägen.
I'll give 'him often in the presence of many Entschiedne token of
my favor. He complains to me, so let's examine me, as I did, as he
affixed his room recently believed. Can not find zeig So I left
him, as I see's, And since we all must practice, so usual
'I know because he's earned the patience to Tasso: And you, I know,
is willing for me. I hab 'euch now brought into the country and go Heut'
evening after the city back. You will be a moment to see Antonio; He
comes from Rome and picks me up. We have a lot out of, dismiss.
Decisions are now to act, much to write letters; This obliges me
to town. Princess. That you permit us, we will accompany you out?
Alphons. If only Belriguardo goes together Hinüber after Consandoli!
Enjoy the beautiful days all the way to free pleasure. Princess. You
can not stay with us? The shops not as good as here in the city work?
Leonore. You lead us across Antonio, The Rome of us so much to tell?
Alphons. It is not their children, but I come with him as soon as
possible is back: Then let him tell you, and ye shall I reward him
help so much in my service sought anew.

And we re-expressed, Sun likes the swarm then that funny in our
gardens will that even me, how cheap, a beauty in the chilling, if
I search like they might encounter.

Leonore. We want to kindly look through your fingers. Alphons. On the
other hand you know that I can spare. Prinzessin (after the scene
swept). Long seh 'ich Tasso come.

Slowly he moves his steps at once is sometimes silent, as indecisive,
then goes back on us going faster, and is visiting again.
Alphons.

Interfere him if he thinks and writes, in his dreams not, and let
him walk.

Leonore . No, he has seen us, he comes here. The former third-party
presence. Tasso. Tasso (with a book in parchment stitched). I'm slow,
you work to bring zaudre And yet, you are to hand over. I know too
well, yet it remains unfinished, even if it seems like geendigt want.
Alone, I was worried it imperfectly you add, it overcomes me now, the
new concern: Would 'I do not like to be anxious, möcht' I do not
seem ungrateful.

And like the man just can say: Here am I!

that of his friends enjoy gentle, So I can only say: Take it out!

(He hands over the tape.)

Alphons.

You surprise me with your gift to me And make this beautiful day for
celebration. So halt 'ich's finally because in my hands, And nom 'is
in some sense mine! Lang' wants' I know, you decide you want to say And
finally: Here! It is enough. Tasso. If you're satisfied, so it's perfect,
because it belongs to you in every sense. If I the diligence, which I
used, I saw the outline of my pen, it could So I say: This work is
mine.

But seh 'ich closer to what this seal innren the value and dignity
are Discoverable' I feel I've 'only of you.

If the nature of poetry Holde gift from me kind of arbitrariness presented,
for example, had I was lucky eigensinn'ge With grim violence is
pushed, pulled, and the beautiful view of the world the boys with
all their wealth of wonderful, So soon clouded the youthful sense
of undeserved suffering expensive parents opened the lips to sing, So
flowed a sad song from her down, and I accompanied by faint sounds
of his father in pain and agony of the mother you were alone, from the
close of a beautiful life to freedom brought me; The concern each took
me by the head, gave me freedom that For my soul is courageous
singing could unfold; And what price now is my work, thanks to you
'I do, because it belongs to you.

Alphons. For the second time you are deserving of every praise, And
modest ehrst you and us at the same time. Tasso. O may I say how I
feel lively, That I of you did just what I do! The young man did -
he took most of the seal itself? The wise leadership of the war quickly
- he has dreamed up? The art of weapons, each with a hero On the final
days beschiednen shows Des commander wisdom and courage of the knights,
And how cunning and vigilance to combat, Hast thou not o wise, tapfrer
Prince, The eingeflößt everything as if you were my genius, which would
be a joy, His high, inaccessible through a high mortal beings to
reveal? princess. Enjoy now the plant, which pleased us! Alphons.
Enjoy the applause of every Good! Leonore. In general fame enjoying
yourself! Tasso. I am at this moment enough. To you only thought
'I do if I thought and wrote; you to please, was my highest desire
to amuse you, it was my last end. Who not the world sees in his friends,
does not deserve that the world experienced by him. Here is my
fatherland, here is the circle, in which my soul dwells like. horch
Here 'I, eight' I every Wink, Here speaks of experience, science,
taste, yes, the world and posterity seh 'I stand before me.

The crowd makes the artist IRR' and shy: Only someone who is similar
to you, understands and feels, only to be the sole judge and reward!

Alphons. And because we represent the world and before posterity, ziemt
So it is not only futile to receive.

The beautiful character, which pays tribute to the poet, of course,
the hero of his always needed Him without envy wound around the
main sees Behold 'I am here at your Anherrn forehead.

(On the Hermes Virgil significant.) Did it by chance, has braided's a
genius and brought? It shows us here is not in vain.

Virgil hear me say: What Ehret her dead? But had their reward, and
joy as they lived And if you do us admired and revered, To give
the living their part. My marble image is already crowned enough
- The green branch is part of the life. (Alphons waving his sister,
they takes the crown of the bust of Virgil and approaching Tasso. He
resigns.)

Leonore. You weigerst you? See which hand the ring, The
beautiful unverwelklichen, offers thee! Tasso. O let me feel free!
Seh 'I do not how I should live this hour. Alphons. The enjoyment of
the beautiful property, in the first moment you scared. Princess (by
the wreath into the air holds). You treat me the joy seltne, Tasso,
without any word you like to say how I think. Tasso. The nice
load out of your expensive hands Reception 'on my knees I am low
key. (He kneels down, the princess gives him the ring on.) Leonore
(applauding). It live for the first time crowned! zieret As the
bescheidnen man in the ring! (Tasso is on.) Alphons. It is only an
example of the crown, on the Capitol you should decorate. princess.
There are louder voices greet thee; With silent lip worth the friendship
here. Tasso. O take him away from my head back, take him out! He
sengt my hair, And like a ray of sun, too hot, the principal took me,
he burns me the strength of reflection from the forehead. Fever heat
my blood moving. Sorry! There is too much! Leonore. Schützet this topic
is much more the principal of the man in the hot regions of Fame to
convert, and cools the forehead. Tasso. I'm not worth it, to feel
the cooling, the only heroes foreheads blow be.

O lifts him to their gods, and between clouds transfigured him that
he had high and higher And unattainable floating! That my life after
this goal was forever Convert! Alphons. Who early acquires, learns
early the high value of the HOLD value goods of this life, who enjoys
early, lacking in his life with will not be what he once possessed;
And who owns, the needs ahead. Tasso. And if you upgrade, you need a
force in the bosom feel to it never fails. Oh! You failed me just
now! In happiness they leave me, the inborn power, The steadfast me
the accident, proud Meet the wrongly taught. Has the pleasure
to me Has the delight of this moment, the Mark in my limbs broken? It
reduced my knee! Once again, you see, O Princess, I bowed
before thee! Hear my plea: Take him away! That, like a beautiful
dream awake, I feel refreshed new life. Princess. Quiet When you humble
talent, The thee the gods said, can carry, Sun lern 'these
branches, which are The most beautiful thing we can give you. Wem
once dignified, she touched the head, the float on forever to the
forehead. Tasso. So let me ashamed because by Hinnen go! let my
good fortune in the deep grove hide, otherwise I hid my pain there.
einsam where I want to convert, where no eye reminds me of the
undeserved good fortune. And shows me around a clear fountain in
its pure mirror of a man, The beautifully crowned in the
reflection of the sky between trees, between rocks after resting
Thinking: So it seems to me, I look at this magic Elysium area Made.
Still remember 'and I ask: Who likes the Abgeschiedne be? The young man
from the previous ones time? So beautiful crowned? Who can tell me
his name? His earnings? I wait long 'and think: Were yet another and
another, to him in friendly conversation socialize! Seeding O' my
heroes, the poets of old times gathered around this source! O
Seeding 'I here they are always inseparable in life as they were
firmly attached! Sun binds the magnet with its strength, the iron
with the iron firmly together, as equal quest hero and poet binds. Homer
forgot himself, his whole life Was the consideration of two
holy men, And Urgent Alexander in Elysium, the Achilles and Homer to
search. O that I would present it, the greatest souls, now united
to see! Leonore. Adults'! Wake up! Let us not feel that you completely
ignored Gegenwärt'ge. Tasso. It is the present, which I raised,
Absent schein 'ich nur: I'm delighted. Princess. I am glad, if you
talk with spirits, That thou so menschlich speak, and hear it gladly.
(One Page to the Prince enters and quietly directed something.) Alphons.
He has come! Right to good hour. Antonio! - Bring him - because he
already! The former fourth appearance. Antonio. Alphons. Welcome!
The thou us both yourself and bring good news.

Princess. Be greeted us! Antonio. Hardly wag 'I have to say what a
pleasure in your present myself revitalized. Before your eyes find' I
am everything, what I so long 'lacks. You seem satisfied with what
I done what I done, And I am rewarded for any concern, for some
soon with impatience durchharrten, Bald deliberately verlornen day.
We have now what we want, and no dispute is more. Leonore. I also
welcome you, if I already Zürn.

You come just because I must travel. Antonio. That my luck will not
quite perfect, Will you like me across the beautiful part. Tasso.
Even my greeting! I hope I am close to the much experienced man to
friends. Antonio. You will truly find me if you ever in your world in
my look like. Alphons. If you are like me in letters already reported
what you have done and how it delivered to you, So hab 'ich still
some auszufragen, By what means the business succeeded. On that wonderful
soil to the well-measured step, when he last suited to your
purpose, you should lead. Men Who his advantage purely consider
He in Rome, even in a difficult position because Rome wants to take
everything, give nothing; And to get there in order to get something,
you get nothing, because what you put out, And happy, because
even if one gets what. Antonio. It is not my demeanor, my art, by thy
will I, Lord, done; For what Kluge fänd 'in the Vatican's failure to
master? Much came together, That I could use to our advantage. Honors
you Gregor and greets and blesses you. The old man, the worthy, a crown,
the main burden, thinks the time with joy, As he concluded his arm
yourself. The man, The men differs, you know, and boasts high! To
deinetwillen he did much. Alphons. I look I think its good, if it is
honest. But you probably know, from the Vatican down, one sees the
rich already small enough to his feet, let alone the prince and the
people. Confess only what helped you the most! Antonio. Good! If you
want: The high point of the Pope. He sees the little small, the large
size. To make it a world areastechnical there He likes his neighbors,
and friendly to. The sliver country he leaves you, he knows how your
friend probably appreciate. Italy will be quiet, he wants in his close
friends to see peace in its borders, that the power of Christianity,
which he draws enormous, the Turks because the heretics there Vertilger.
princess. the white men that he favors more than others, which to him
confidentially nahn? Antonio. Only the man has experienced
his ear, The Zutraun his acting, his favor. He, the youth served in the
state, dominated him and is now on those farms The prior years as a
messenger already seen and known and often led. It is the world so
clearly in front of his view as how the benefit of its own state. If
it does act, it says it is pleased And when the time discovered what
the long-dormant 'prepares and done. schönrer There is no sight in the
world, As a prince's see, the wise regieret, Das Reich's see where
everyone obeys proud, Where everyone just believes himself to
serve, because it The only rights are commanded. Leonore. How
eagerly wants' world that I once right near sehn! Alphons. But probably
with effect merely because beschaun will never Leonore. It would
be quite good, my friend, If the big game we also sometimes mix the
delicate hands could - Not? Leonore (too Alphons). You want to
irritate me, it will not succeed. Alphons. I'm much you owe from other
days. Leonore. Well, as a permanent 'I now your fault! Verzeih
'and not disturb my questions. (To Antonio.) Did it for the Nepoten
done? Antonio. Not less nor more than cheap. A powerful, for
He does not care to know, from the people blame themselves. Still
and the moderate white Gregor His use of the State as wackre men
serve, and complies with One concern two related obligations. Tasso.
Pleased science, enjoys the protection of his art, too? And
he strives to great lords of ancient times after? Antonio. He pays
tribute to the science, so far it uses to govern the state, teaches
people to know, he appreciates the arts, so far it adorns, Glory to
Rome and palace and temples to the wonders of these works Earth does.
In its vicinity may not be idle, what should be valid, must and
should be used. Alphons. And do you think that we will soon finishing
shops can? The fact that they are not as yet here and there we strew
obstacles? Antonio. I would have to me very wrong, if not the same
Through your Nahmenszug, by little more letters on this dispute would
be lifted. Alphons. So lob 'I these days of my life as a time of happiness
and profits. seh Advanced 'my line, you know for the future. Without
a sword blow Hast du's done, a citizen you probably deserved crown. It
will be our women from the first Eichenlaub most beautiful morning
she braided your forehead to the basket.

However, I also enriches Tasso: he has conquered Jerusalem for us And
so the new Christendom ashamed, A distant, ambitious with joyful
courage and genuine diligence achieved. For his trouble, you will
see him crowned. Antonio. You solved me a Räthsel. Two crowned sees' I
Verwundrung because I came from. Tasso. If you are my happiness
before your eyes see, So wish I, ashamed that you are my soul With this
very eyes could look. Antonio. I was there long known that Reward in
Alphons is immoderate, and you'll learn what each of his already
learned. princess. If you only see what he has done, So you will meet
us and find mäßig. We are only here the first witnesses to the silent
applause that the world he does not fail, And to him tenfold künft'ge
years time. Antonio. It is through you certainly have his fame. Who
should doubt where you can praise? But tell me who printed this wreath
on Ariostes forehead? Leonore. These hand. Antonio. And she has
probably done! He decorates it beautifully, as it to the bay itself
would not adorn.
I crossed
that enormous tusk that had been the end of Perdóndaris and met the
artists carving it as I went; and some by way of greeting as I passed
extolled Singanee, and in answer I gave honour to his name.  Daylight
had not yet penetrated wholly to the bottom of the abyss but the
darkness was giving place to a purple haze and I could faintly see one
golden dragon there. Then looking once towards the ivory palace, and
seeing no one at the windows, I turned sorrowfully away, and going by
the way that I knew passed through the gap in the mountains and down
their slopes till I came again in sight of the witch's cottage.  And
as I went to the upper window to look for the fields we know, the
witch spoke to me; but I was cross, as one newly waked from sleep, and
I would not answer her. Then the cat questioned me as to whom I had
met, and I answered him that in the fields we know cats kept their
place and did not speak to man.  And then I came downstairs and walked
straight out of the door, heading for Go-by Street.  "You are going
the wrong way," the witch called through the window; and indeed I had
sooner gone back to the ivory palace again, but I had no right to
trespass any further on the hospitality of Singanee and one cannot
stay always in the Lands of Dream, and what knowledge had that old
witch of the call of the fields we know or the little though many
snares that bind our feet therein? So I paid no heed to her, but kept
on, and came to Go-by Street.  I saw the house with the green door
some way up the street but thinking that the near end of the street
was closer to the Embankment where I had left my boat I tried the
first door I came to, a cottage thatched like the rest, with little
golden spires along the roof-ridge, and strange birds sitting there
and preening marvellous feathers.  The door opened, and to my surprise
I found myself in what seemed like a shepherd's cottage; a man who was
sitting on a log of wood in a little low dark room said something to
me in an alien language.  I muttered something and hurried through to
the street. The house was thatched in front as well as behind.  There
were not golden spires in front, no marvellous birds; but there was no
pavement.  There was a row of houses, byres, and barns but no other
sign of a town.  Far off I saw one or two little villages.  Yet there
was the river--and no doubt the Thames, for it was the width of the
Thames and had the curves of it, if you can imagine the Thames in that
particular spot without a city around it, without any bridges, and the
Embankment fallen in.  I saw that there had happened to me permanently
and in the light of day some such thing as happens to a man, but to a
child more often, when he awakes before morning in some strange room
and sees a high, grey window where the door ought to be and unfamiliar
objects in wrong places and though knowing where he is yet knows not
how it can be that the place should look like that.

A flock of sheep came by me presently looking the same as ever, but
the man who led them had a wild, strange look.  I spoke to him and he
did not understand me.  Then I went down to the river to see if my
boat was there and at the very spot where I had left it, in the mud
(for the tide was low) I saw a half-buried piece of blackened wood
that might have been part of a boat, but I could not tell.  I began to
feel that I had missed the world.  It would be a strange thing to
travel from far away to see London and not be able to find it among
all the roads that lead there, but I seemed to have travelled in Time
and to have missed it among the centuries.  And when as I wandered
over the grassy hills I came on a wattled shrine that was thatched
with straw and saw a lion in it more worn with time than even the
Sphinx at Gizeh and when I knew it for one of the four in Trafalgar
Square then I saw that I was stranded far away in the future with many
centuries of treacherous years between me and anything that I had
known.  And then I sat on the grass by the worn paws of the lion to
think out what to do.  And I decided to go back through Go-by Street
and, since there was nothing left to keep me any more to the fields we
know, to offer myself as a servant in the palace of Singanee, and to
see again the face of Saranoora and those famous, wonderful,
amethystine dawns upon the abyss where the golden dragons play.  And I
stayed no longer to look for remains of the ruins of London; for there
is little pleasure in seeing wonderful things if there is no one at
all to hear of them and to wonder.  So I returned at once to Go-by
Street, the little row of huts, and saw no other record that London
had been except that one stone lion.  I went to the right house this
time.  It was very much altered and more like one of those huts that
one sees on Salisbury plain than a shop in the city of London, but I
found it by counting the houses in the street for it was still a row
of houses though pavement and city were gone. And it was still a shop.
A very different shop to the one I knew, but things were for sale
there--shepherd's crooks, food, and rude axes.  And a man with long
hair was there who was clad in skins. I did not speak to him for I did
not know his language. He said to me something that sounded like
"Everkike."  It conveyed no meaning to me; but when he looked towards
one of his buns, light suddenly dawned in my mind, and I knew that
England was even England still and that still she was not conquered,
and that though they had tired of London they still held to their
land; for the words that the man had said were, "Av er kike," and then
I knew that that very language that was carried to distant lands by
the old, triumphant cockney was spoken still in his birthplace and
that neither his politics nor his enemies had destroyed him after all
these thousand years.  I had always disliked the Cockney dialect--and
with the arrogance of the Irishman who hears from rich and poor the
English of the splendour of Elizabeth; and yet when I heard those
words my eyes felt sore as with impending tears--it should be
remembered how far away I was.  I think I was silent for a little
while.  Suddenly I saw that the man who kept the shop was asleep.
That habit was strangely like the ways of a man who if he were then
alive would be (if I could judge from the time-worn look of the lion)
over a thousand years old.  But then how old was I?  It is perfectly
clear that Time moves over the Lands of Dream swifter or slower than
over the fields we know.  For the dead, and the long dead, live again
in our dreams; and a dreamer passes through the events of days in a
single moment of the Town-Hall's clock.  Yet logic did not aid me and
my mind was puzzled.  While the old man slept--and strangely like in
face he was to the old man who had shown me first the little, old
backdoor--I went to the far end of his wattled shop.  There was a door
of a sort on leather hinges.  I pushed it open and there I was again
under the notice-board at the back of the shop, at least the back of
Go-by Street had not changed. The third bed, the autumn, in the western
parts, was completely covered with leaves and wilting of chrysanthemum
flowers, while the fourth located in the northern border, the winter,
a thick carpet of snow-covered and ice rinks and a frozen ditch
is defined. So Urashima spent seven long days in the palaces of
the Sea Queen, and was not tired all the wonders and glories
anzustaunen to him daily and have been shown in raptures about the
beauty of lovely Otohimes he quite forgot his hometown, his father,
his wife and his children . But one day when he again umherschlenderte
idle, but this came to him again in memory and a deep homesickness
infested him. He sighed heavily and said: "What may well be my father
by my long absence, think how uneasy my wife and children, and expect
my return! Perhaps they even believe that I am dead, devoured by the
waves of the sea, on the essence of the restless ocean! "Without a
long time to reflect, he hurried to the queen, and begged him to
his back to you, since he is already seven days was absent from home
and his family certainly would frighten.

The Queen, in vain is sought, Urashima the thoughts out of homesickness,
began when she saw that her words do not help him with it in her
room, and handed him a small, solid verschnürtes Lackkästchen by
saying: "I did not force you here against your will hold back,
although I know that your return home you will only bring misery.

But take this to remind me this box, you'll be always useful and
thee, if thou hast a desire to return to me, this return possible.

This value keeps the box but only so long as it remains uneröffnet.

Also note well! Let you never culpable by curiosity and by any other
circumstances tempt ever the tape, which keeps the box closed, and
to solve the lid to air, it would be your death and you never would
find the way to me.

"Everyone's dead and gone, and they're
selling buns there."

"What do you know about Time?" she said.

"Nothing," answered the old, black cat, though nobody spoke to him.

"Run along," said the old witch.

So I turned and trudged away to Go-by Street again.  I was very tired.
"What does he know about anything?" said the old black cat behind me.
I knew what he was going to say next.  He waited a moment and then
said, "Nothing."  When I looked over my shoulder he was strutting back
to the cottage.  And when I got to Go-by Street I listlessly opened
the door through which I had just now come.  I saw no use in doing it,
I just did wearily as I was told.  And the moment I got inside I saw
it was just the same as of old, and the sleepy old man was there who
sold idols.  And I bought a vulgar thing that I did not want, for the
sheer joy of seeing accustomed things.  And when I turned from Go-by
Street which was just the same as ever, the first thing that I saw was
a taximeter running into a hansom cab.  And I took off my hat and
cheered.  And I went to the Embankment and there was my boat, and the
stately river full of dirty, accustomed things. And I rowed back and
bought a penny paper, (I had been away it seemed for one day) and I
read it from cover to cover--patent remedies for incurable illnesses
and all--and I determined to walk, as soon as I was rested, in all the
streets that I knew and to call on all the people that I had ever met,
and to be content for long with the fields we know.