Produced by David Brannan.  HTML version by Al Haines.


replied Michel.

Long did the travelers, whom such a sight could never weary, admire
the splendors of Tycho.

Their projectile, saturated with luminous gleams in the double irradiation
of sun and moon, must have appeared like an incandescent globe. They
had passed suddenly from excessive cold to intense heat.
Nature was thus preparing them to become Selenites. Become Selenites!
That idea brought up once more the question of the habitability of the
moon.
After what they had seen, could the travelers solve it? Would they
decide for or against it? Michel Ardan persuaded his two friends to
form an opinion, and asked them directly if they thought that men and
animals were represented in the lunar world.

"I think that we can answer," said Barbicane; "but according to my idea
the question ought not to be put in that form. I ask it to be put
differently."
"Put it your own way," replied Michel.

"Here it is," continued Barbicane. "The problem is a double one, and
requires a double solution. Is the moon habitable? Has the moon ever
been inhabitable?"
"Good!" replied Nicholl. "First let us see whether the moon is
habitable."
"To tell the truth, I know nothing about it," answered Michel.

"And I answer in the negative," continued Barbicane. "In her actual
state, with her surrounding atmosphere certainly very much reduced,
her seas for the most part dried up, her insufficient supply of water
restricted, vegetation, sudden alternations of cold and heat, her days
and nights of 354 hours-- the moon does not seem habitable to me, nor
does she seem propitious to animal development, nor sufficient
for the wants of existence as we understand it."

"Agreed," replied Nicholl. "But is not the moon habitable for creatures
differently organized from ourselves?"
"That question is more difficult to answer, but I will try; and I
ask Nicholl if motion appears to him to be a necessary result of
life, whatever be its organization?"

"Without a doubt!" answered Nicholl.

"Then, my worthy companion, I would answer that we have observed the
lunar continent at a distance of 500 yards at most, and that nothing
seemed to us to move on the moon's surface.

The presence of any kind of life would have been betrayed by its
attendant marks, such as divers buildings, and even by ruins.

And what have we seen?

Everywhere and always the geological works of nature, never the work of
man. If, then, there exist representatives of the animal kingdom on the
moon, they must have fled to those unfathomable cavities which the
eye cannot reach; which I cannot admit, for they must have left traces
of their passage on those plains which the atmosphere must cover,
however slightly raised it may be.

These traces are nowhere visible.

There remains but one hypothesis, that of a living race to which motion,
which is life, is foreign."
"One might as well say, living creatures which do not live," replied
Michel.

"Just so," said Barbicane, "which for us has no meaning."
"Then we may form our opinion?" said Michel.

"Yes," replied Nicholl.

"Very well," continued Michel Ardan, "the Scientific Commission assembled
in the projectile of the Gun Club, after having founded their argument
on facts recently observed, decide unanimously upon the question
of the habitability of the moon-- `No!

the moon is not habitable.'"
This decision was consigned by President Barbicane to his notebook,
where the process of the sitting of the 6th of December may be seen.

"Now," said Nicholl, "let us attack the second question, an indispensable
complement of the first.

I ask the honorable commission, if the moon is not habitable, has
she ever been inhabited, Citizen Barbicane?"

"My friends," replied Barbicane, "I did not undertake this journey in
order to form an opinion on the past habitability of our satellite; but
I will add that our personal observations only confirm me in this
opinion. I believe, indeed I affirm, that the moon has been inhabited
by a human race organized like our own; that she has produced animals
anatomically formed like the terrestrial animals: but I add that these
races, human and animal, have had their day, and are now forever extinct!"

"Then," asked Michel, "the moon must be older than the earth?"
"No!"

said Barbicane decidedly, "but a world which has grown old quicker,
and whose formation and deformation have been more rapid.

Relatively, the organizing force of matter has been much more violent
in the interior of the moon than in the interior of the terrestrial
globe. The actual state of this cracked, twisted, and burst disc
abundantly proves this. The moon and the earth were nothing but
gaseous masses originally. These gases have passed into a liquid state
under different influences, and the solid masses have been formed later.
But most certainly our sphere was still gaseous or liquid, when the
moon was solidified by cooling, and had become habitable."
"I believe it," said Nicholl.

"Then," continued Barbicane, "an atmosphere surrounded it, the waters
contained within this gaseous envelope could not evaporate.
Under the influence of air, water, light, solar heat, and central heat,
vegetation took possession of the continents prepared to receive
it, and certainly life showed itself about this period, for nature does
not expend herself in vain; and a world so wonderfully formed for
habitation must necessarily be inhabited."
"But," said Nicholl, "many phenomena inherent in our satellite might
cramp the expansion of the animal and vegetable kingdom.
For example, its days and nights of 354 hours?"
"At the terrestrial poles they last six months," said Michel.

"An argument of little value, since the poles are not inhabited."
"Let us observe, my friends," continued Barbicane, "that if in the
actual state of the moon its long nights and long days created
differences of temperature insupportable to organization, it was
not so at the historical period of time.

The atmosphere enveloped the disc with a fluid mantle; vapor deposited
itself in the shape of clouds; this natural screen tempered the ardor
of the solar rays, and retained the nocturnal radiation. Light, like
heat, can diffuse itself in the air; hence an equality between the
influences which no longer exists, now that atmosphere has almost entirely
disappeared.
And now I am going to astonish you."

"Astonish us?"

said Michel Ardan.

"I firmly believe that at the period when the moon was inhabited,
the nights and days did not last 354 hours!"

"And why?" asked Nicholl quickly.

"Because most probably then the rotary motion of the moon upon her axis
was not equal to her revolution, an equality which presents each
part of her disc during fifteen days to the action of the solar rays."

"Granted," replied Nicholl, "but why should not these two motions have
been equal, as they are really so?"
"Because that equality has only been determined by terrestrial attraction.
And who can say that this attraction was powerful enough to alter the
motion of the moon at that period when the earth was still fluid?"

"Just so," replied Nicholl; "and who can say that the moon has always
been a satellite of the earth?"
"And who can say," exclaimed Michel Ardan, "that the moon did not exist
before the earth?"
Their imaginations carried them away into an indefinite field of
hypothesis. Barbicane sought to restrain them.

"Those speculations are too high," said he; "problems utterly
insoluble. Do not let us enter upon them. Let us only admit the
insufficiency of the primordial attraction; and then by the inequality
of the two motions of rotation and revolution, the days and nights
could have succeeded each other on the moon as they succeed each other
on the earth. Besides, even without these conditions, life was
possible."

"And so," asked Michel Ardan, "humanity has disappeared from the moon?"

"Yes," replied Barbicane, "after having doubtless remained persistently
for millions of centuries; by degrees the atmosphere becoming
rarefied, the disc became uninhabitable, as the terrestrial globe
will one day become by cooling."

"By cooling?"
"Certainly," replied Barbicane; "as the internal fires became extinguished,
and the incandescent matter concentrated itself, the lunar crust
cooled. By degrees the consequences of these phenomena showed
themselves in the disappearance of organized beings, and by the
disappearance of vegetation. Soon the atmosphere was rarefied,
probably withdrawn by terrestrial attraction; then aerial departure
of respirable air, and disappearance of water by means of evaporation.
At this period the moon becoming uninhabitable, was no longer inhabited.

It was a dead world, such as we see it to-day."
"And you say that the same fate is in store for the earth?"

"Most probably."

"But when?"
"When the cooling of its crust shall have made it uninhabitable."
"And have they calculated the time which our unfortunate sphere
will take to cool?"

"Certainly."
"And you know these calculations?"
"Perfectly."
"But speak, then, my clumsy savant," exclaimed Michel Ardan, "for you
make me boil with impatience!"

"Very well, my good Michel," replied Barbicane quietly; "we know what
diminution of temperature the earth undergoes in the lapse of a century.
And according to certain calculations, this mean temperature will
after a period of 400,000 years, be brought down to zero!"
"Four hundred thousand years!" exclaimed Michel. "Ah! I breathe again.
Really I was frightened to hear you; I imagined that we had not more
than 50,000 years to live."
Barbicane and Nicholl could not help laughing at their companion's
uneasiness.

Then Nicholl, who wished to end the discussion, put the second question,
which had just been considered again.

"Has the moon been inhabited?" he asked.

The answer was unanimously in the affirmative.

But during this discussion, fruitful in somewhat hazardous theories, the
projectile was rapidly leaving the moon: the lineaments faded away
from the travelers' eyes, mountains were confused in the distance;
and of all the wonderful, strange, and fantastical form of the
earth's satellite, there soon remained nothing but the imperishable
remembrance.

CHAPTER XIX

A STRUGGLE AGAINST THE IMPOSSIBLE

For a long time Barbicane and his companions looked silently and sadly
upon that world which they had only seen from a distance, as Moses
saw the land of Canaan, and which they were leaving without a
possibility of ever returning to it.

The projectile's position with regard to the moon had altered, and the
base was now turned to the earth.

This change, which Barbicane verified, did not fail to surprise them.
If the projectile was to gravitate round the satellite in an
elliptical orbit, why was not its heaviest part turned toward it,
as the moon turns hers to the earth?

That was a difficult point.

In watching the course of the projectile they could see that on
leaving the moon it followed a course analogous to that traced in
approaching her.

It was describing a very long ellipse, which would most likely
extend to the point of equal attraction, where the influences of
the earth and its satellite are neutralized.

Such was the conclusion which Barbicane very justly drew from facts
already observed, a conviction which his two friends shared with
him.

"And when arrived at this dead point, what will become of us?" asked
Michel Ardan.

"We don't know," replied Barbicane.

"But one can draw some hypotheses, I suppose?"
"Two," answered Barbicane; "either the projectile's speed will be
insufficient, and it will remain forever immovable on this line of
double attraction----"
"I prefer the other hypothesis, whatever it may be," interrupted
Michel.

"Or," continued Barbicane, "its speed will be sufficient, and it will
continue its elliptical course, to gravitate forever around the orb of
night."
"A revolution not at all consoling," said Michel, "to pass to the state
of humble servants to a moon whom we are accustomed to look
upon as our own handmaid. So that is the fate in store for us?"

Neither Barbicane nor Nicholl answered.

"You do not answer," continued Michel impatiently.

"There is nothing to answer," said Nicholl.

"Is there nothing to try?"

"No," answered Barbicane. "Do you pretend to fight against the impossible?"

"Why not?

Do one Frenchman and two Americans shrink from such a word?"

"But what would you do?"

"Subdue this motion which is bearing us away."
"Subdue it?"
"Yes," continued Michel, getting animated, "or else alter it, and employ
it to the accomplishment of our own ends."
"And how?"
"That is your affair. If artillerymen are not masters of their projectile
they are not artillerymen. If the projectile is to command the
gunner, we had better ram the gunner into the gun.

My faith! fine savants! who do not know what is to become of us after
inducing me----"
"Inducing you!" cried Barbicane and Nicholl. "Inducing you!
What do you mean by that?"
"No recrimination," said Michel.

"I do not complain, the trip has pleased me, and the projectile
agrees with me; but let us do all that is humanly possible to do the
fall somewhere, even if only on the moon."
"We ask no better, my worthy Michel," replied Barbicane, "but means
fail us."
"We cannot alter the motion of the projectile?"
"No."

"Nor diminish its speed?"
"No."
"Not even by lightening it, as they lighten an overloaded vessel?"
"What would you throw out?" said Nicholl. "We have no ballast on board;
and indeed it seems to me that if lightened it would go much quicker."

"Slower."
"Quicker."
"Neither slower nor quicker," said Barbicane, wishing to make his two
friends agree; "for we float is space, and must no longer consider
specific weight."
"Very well," cried Michel Ardan in a decided voice; "then their remains
but one thing to do."
"What is it?" asked Nicholl.

"Breakfast," answered the cool, audacious Frenchman, who always
brought up this solution at the most difficult juncture.
In any case, if this operation had no influence on the projectile's
course, it could at least be tried without inconvenience, and even
with success from a stomachic point of view. Certainly Michel had
none but good ideas.
They breakfasted then at two in the morning; the hour mattered
little.
Michel served his usual repast, crowned by a glorious bottle drawn
from his private cellar. If ideas did not crowd on their brains,
we must despair of the Chambertin of 1853. The repast finished,
observation began again. Around the projectile, at an invariable
distance, were the objects which had been thrown out. Evidently,
in its translatory motion round the moon, it had not passed through
any atmosphere, for the specific weight of these different objects
would have checked their relative speed.
On the side of the terrestrial sphere nothing was to be seen.
The earth was but a day old, having been new the night before at
twelve; and two days must elapse before its crescent, freed from
the solar rays, would serve as a clock to the Selenites, as in its
rotary movement each of its points after twenty-four hours repasses
the same lunar meridian.
On the moon's side the sight was different; the orb shone in all
her splendor amid innumerable constellations, whose purity could
not be troubled by her rays. On the disc, the plains were already
returning to the dark tint which is seen from the earth.
The other part of the nimbus remained brilliant, and in the midst
of this general brilliancy Tycho shone prominently like a sun.
Barbicane had no means of estimating the projectile's speed, but
reasoning showed that it must uniformly decrease, according to the
laws of mechanical reasoning. Having admitted that the projectile
was describing an orbit around the moon, this orbit must necessarily
be elliptical; science proves that it must be so.
No motive body circulating round an attracting body fails in this
law. Every orbit described in space is elliptical. And why should
the projectile of the Gun Club escape this natural arrangement?
In elliptical orbits, the attracting body always occupies one of
the foci; so that at one moment the satellite is nearer, and at
another farther from the orb around which it gravitates. When the
earth is nearest the sun she is in her perihelion; and in her
aphelion at the farthest point. Speaking of the moon, she is nearest
to the earth in her perigee, and farthest from it in her apogee.That is
what she would have done if she had wished to shield the criminal.  But
if she does not wish to shield him she would give his name.  There is a
tangle here which needs straightening to."  He had been talking in a
high, quick voice, staring blankly up over the garden fence, but now he
sprang briskly to his feet and walked towards the house.

"I have a few questions to ask Miss Cushing," said he.

"In that case I may leave you here," said Lestrade, "for I have another
small business on hand.  I think that I have nothing further to learn
from Miss Cushing.  You will find me at the police-station."

"We shall look in on our way to the train," answered Holmes.  A moment
later he and I were back in the front room, where the impassive lady
was still quietly working away at her antimacassar.  She put it down on
her lap as we entered and looked at us with her frank, searching blue
eyes.

"I am convinced, sir," she said, "that this matter is a mistake, and
that the parcel was never meant for me at all.  I have said this
several times to the gentlemen from Scotland Yard, but he simply laughs
at me.  I have not an enemy in the world, as far as I know, so why
should anyone play me such a trick?"

"I am coming to be of the same opinion, Miss Cushing," said Holmes,
taking a seat beside her.  "I think that it is more than probable--" He
paused, and I was surprised, on glancing round to see that he was
staring with singular intentness at the lady's profile.  Surprise and
satisfaction were both for an instant to be read upon his eager face,
though when she glanced round to find out the cause of his silence he
had become as demure as ever.  I stared hard myself at her flat,
grizzled hair, her trim cap, her little gilt earrings, her placid
features; but I could see nothing which could account for my
companion's evident excitement.

"There were one or two questions--"

"Oh, I am weary of questions!" cried Miss Cushing impatiently.

"You have two sisters, I believe."

"How could you know that?"

"I observed the very instant that I entered the room that you have a
portrait group of three ladies upon the mantelpiece, one of whom is
undoubtedly yourself, while the others are so exceedingly like you that
there could be no doubt of the relationship."

"Yes, you are quite right.  Those are my sisters, Sarah and Mary."

"And here at my elbow is another portrait, taken at Liverpool, of your
younger sister, in the company of a man who appears to be a steward by
his uniform.  I observe that she was unmarried at the time."

"You are very quick at observing."

"That is my trade."

"Well, you are quite right.  But she was married to Mr. Browner a few
days afterwards.  He was on the South American line when that was
taken, but he was so fond of her that he couldn't abide to leave her
for so long, and he got into the Liverpool and London boats."

"Ah, the Conqueror, perhaps?"

"No, the May Day, when last I heard.  Jim came down here to see me
once.  That was before he broke the pledge; but afterwards he would
always take drink when he was ashore, and a little drink would send him
stark, staring mad.  Ah! it was a bad day that ever he took a glass in
his hand again.  First he dropped me, then he quarrelled with Sarah,
and now that Mary has stopped writing we don't know how things are
going with them."

It was evident that Miss Cushing had come upon a subject on which she
felt very deeply.  Like most people who lead a lonely life, she was shy
at first, but ended by becoming extremely communicative.  She told us
many details about her brother-in-law the steward, and then wandering
off on the subject of her former lodgers, the medical students, she
gave us a long account of their delinquencies, with their names and
those of their hospitals.  Holmes listened attentively to everything,
throwing in a question from time to time.

"About your second sister, Sarah," said he.  "I wonder, since you are
both maiden ladies, that you do not keep house together."

"Ah! you don't know Sarah's temper or you would wonder no more. I tried
it when I came to Croydon, and we kept on until about two months ago,
when we had to part.  I don't want to say a word against my own sister,
but she was always meddlesome and hard to please, was Sarah."

"You say that she quarrelled with your Liverpool relations."

"Yes, and they were the best of friends at one time.  Why, she went up
there to live in order to be near them.  And now she has no word hard
enough for Jim Browner.  The last six months that she was here she
would speak of nothing but his drinking and his ways.  He had caught
her meddling, I suspect, and given her a bit of his mind, and that was
the start of it."

"Thank you, Miss Cushing," said Holmes, rising and bowing.  "Your
sister Sarah lives, I think you said, at New Street, Wallington?
Good-bye, and I am very sorry that you should have been troubled over a
case with which, as you say, you have nothing whatever to do."

There was a cab passing as we came out, and Holmes hailed it.

"How far to Wallington?" he asked.

"Only about a mile, sir."

"Very good.  Jump in, Watson.  We must strike while the iron is hot.
Simple as the case is, there have been one or two very instructive
details in connection with it.  Just pull up at a telegraph office as
you pass, cabby."

Holmes sent off a short wire and for the rest of the drive lay back in
the cab, with his hat tilted over his nose to keep the sun from his
face. Our drive pulled up at a house which was not unlike the one which
we had just quitted.  My companion ordered him to wait, and had his
hand upon the knocker, when the door opened and a grave young gentleman
in black, with a very shiny hat, appeared on the step.

"Is Miss Cushing at home?" asked Holmes.

"Miss Sarah Cushing is extremely ill," said he.  "She has been
suffering since yesterday from brain symptoms of great severity. As her
medical adviser, I cannot possibly take the responsibility of allowing
anyone to see her.  I should recommend you to call again in ten days."
He drew on his gloves, closed the door, and marched off down the street.

"Well, if we can't we can't," said Holmes, cheerfully.

"Perhaps she could not or would not have told you much."

"I did not wish her to tell me anything.  I only wanted to look at her.
However, I think that I have got all that I want.  Drive us to some
decent hotel, cabby, where we may have some lunch, and afterwards we
shall drop down upon friend Lestrade at the police-station."

We had a pleasant little meal together, during which Holmes would talk
about nothing but violins, narrating with great exultation how he had
purchased his own Stradivarius, which was worth at least five hundred
guineas, at a Jew broker's in Tottenham Court Road for fifty-five
shillings.  This led him to Paganini, and we sat for an hour over a
bottle of claret while he told me anecdote after anecdote of that
extraordinary man.  The afternoon was far advanced and the hot glare
had softened into a mellow glow before we found ourselves at the
police-station.  Lestrade was waiting for us at the door.

"A telegram for you, Mr. Holmes," said he.

"Ha!  It is the answer!"  He tore it open, glanced his eyes over it,
and crumpled it into his pocket.  "That's all right," said he.

"Have you found out anything?"

"I have found out everything!"

"What!" Lestrade stared at him in amazement.  "You are joking."

"I was never more serious in my life.  A shocking crime has been
committed, and I think I have now laid bare every detail of it."

"And the criminal?"

Holmes scribbled a few words upon the back of one of his visiting cards
and threw it over to Lestrade.

"That is the name," he said.  People who refuse to adopt this
simple preventative should be compelled by law to breathe exclusively
through their ears.

***
The sensational report that the new Director-General of Housing has
already found a house turns out to be unfounded.

It is no secret, however, that the Department is on the track of
several.

***
"There is a Members' cloak-room," says a contemporary in "Hints to M.P.'s,"
"where an attendant will take your coat and hat." So different from
those other political clubs where another member usually takes them.

***
SHAKSPEARE on Glasgow: "For this relief much tanks.".

***

The salute, says a correspondent, is being reintroduced into the German
Army. Kicking an officer on the parade-ground for other than political
reasons is also forbidden.

***

The Consumers' Council urge, _inter alia,_ "that the Food Ministry
ought to be retained so long as there is any need of food control."
This view is regarded as entirely too narrow by officials of the
Ministry, who feel that the public is just beginning to love them
for themselves alone.

***
A sale of ninety specially-selected mules is announced to take place
at Tattersall's to-morrow. In the technical language of the live-stock
trade a "specially-selected" mule is one which has a clear reach
of six feet at either end.

***
"The Government must say what it will do," states _The Daily Mail_."And yet I cannot see anything save very vague indications."

"On the contrary, to my mind nothing could be more clear.  Let me run
over the principal steps.  We approached the case, you remember, with
an absolutely blank mind, which is always an advantage.  We had formed
no theories.  We were simply there to observe and to draw inferences
from our observations.  What did we see first?  A very placid and
respectable lady, who seemed quite innocent of any secret, and a
portrait which showed me that she had two younger sisters.  It
instantly flashed across my mind that the box might have been meant for
one of these.  I set the idea aside as one which could be disproved or
confirmed at our leisure.  Then we went to the garden, as you remember,
and we saw the very singular contents of the little yellow box.

trebly brutes! quadruply idiots! quintuply boobies that we are!"
"What is it?" exclaimed everyone around him.

"What is it?"
"Come, speak!"
"It is, simpletons," howled the terrible secretary, "it is that the
projectile only weighs 19,250 pounds!"

"Well?"
"And that it displaces twenty-eight tons, or in other words 56,000
pounds, and that consequently it floats!"
Ah! what stress the worthy man had laid on the verb "float!" And it
was true! All, yes! all these savants had forgotten this fundamental
law, namely, that on account of its specific lightness, the projectile,
after having been drawn by its fall to the greatest depths of the
ocean, must naturally return to the surface. And now it was floating
quietly at the mercy of the waves.

The boats were put to sea. J. T. Maston and his friends had rushed into
them! Excitement was at its height! Every heart beat loudly while
they advanced to the projectile. What did it contain? Living or
dead?

Living, yes! living, at least unless death had struck Barbicane
and his two friends since they had hoisted the flag.
Profound silence reigned on the boats. All were breathless.
Eyes no longer saw. One of the scuttles of the projectile was
open.
Some pieces of glass remained in the frame, showing that it had
been broken. This scuttle was actually five feet above the water.

A boat came alongside, that of J. T. Maston, and J. T. Maston rushed
to the broken window.

At that moment they heard a clear and merry voice, the voice of Michel
Ardan, exclaiming in an accent of triumph:

"White all, Barbicane, white all!"
Barbicane, Michel Ardan, and Nicholl were playing at dominoes!

CHAPTER XXIII

THE END

We may remember the intense sympathy which had accompanied the
travelers on their departure. If at the beginning of the enterprise
they had excited such emotion both in the old and new world, with
what enthusiasm would they be received on their return! The millions of
spectators which had beset the peninsula of Florida, would they not
rush to meet these sublime adventurers? Those legions of strangers,
hurrying from all parts of the globe toward the American shores,
would they leave the Union without having seen Barbicane, Nicholl,
and Michel Ardan?

No! and the ardent passion of the public was bound to respond worthily
to the greatness of the enterprise.
Human creatures who had left the terrestrial sphere, and returned after
this strange voyage into celestial space, could not fail to be
received as the prophet Elias would be if he came back to
earth. To see them first, and then to hear them, such was the universal
longing.
Barbicane, Michel Ardan, Nicholl, and the delegates of the Gun Club,
returning without delay to Baltimore, were received with indescribable
enthusiasm. The notes of President Barbicane's voyage were ready
to be given to the public. The New York Herald bought the manuscript
at a price not yet known, but which must have been very high. Indeed,
during the publication of "A Journey to the Moon," the sale of this
paper amounted to five millions of copies. Three days after the
return of the travelers to the earth, the slightest detail of their
expedition was known. There remained nothing more but to see the
heroes of this superhuman enterprise.
The expedition of Barbicane and his friends round the moon had
enabled them to correct the many admitted theories regarding the
terrestrial satellite. These savants had observed de visu, and under
particular circumstances. They knew what systems should be rejected,
what retained with regard to the formation of that orb, its origin,
its habitability. Its past, present, and future had even given up
their last secrets. Who could advance objections against conscientious
observers, who at less than twenty-four miles distance had marked
that curious mountain of Tycho, the strangest system of lunar
orography? How answer those savants whose sight had penetrated the
abyss of Pluto's circle?Browner were at
home, and if Browner had departed in the May Day.  Then we went on to
Wallington to visit Miss Sarah.

"I was curious, in the first place, to see how far the family ear had
been reproduced in her.  Then, of course, she might give us very
important information, but I was not sanguine that she would.  She must
have heard of the business the day before, since all Croydon was
ringing with it, and she alone could have understood for whom the
packet was meant.  If she had been willing to help justice she would
probably have communicated with the police already.  However, it was
clearly our duty to see her, so we went.  We found that the news of the
arrival of the packet--for her illness dated from that time--had such
an effect upon her as to bring on brain fever.  It was clearer than
ever that she understood its full significance, but equally clear that
we should have to wait some time for any assistance from her.

"However, we were really independent of her help.  Our answers were
waiting for us at the police-station, where I had directed Algar to
send them.  Nothing could be more conclusive.  Mrs. Browner's house had
been closed for more than three days, and the neighbours were of
opinion that she had gone south to see her relatives.  It had been
ascertained at the shipping offices that Browner had left aboard of the
May Day, and I calculate that she is due in the Thames tomorrow night.
When he arrives he will be met by the obtuse but resolute Lestrade, and
I have no doubt that we shall have all our details filled in."

Sherlock Holmes was not disappointed in his expectations.  Two days
later he received a bulky envelope, which contained a short note from
the detective, and a typewritten document, which covered several pages
of foolscap.

"Lestrade has got him all right," said Holmes, glancing up at me.
"Perhaps it would interest you to hear what he says.

"My dear Mr. Holmes:

In accordance with the scheme which we had formed in order to test our
theories" ["the 'we' is rather fine, Watson, is it not?"] "I went down
to the Albert Dock yesterday at 6 p.m., and boarded the S.S. Amongst
less important developments we have an article making the half-cable's
length, originally enjoined under the Commonwealth, the regular
interval between ships, and others to prevent the line being
broken for the sake of chasing or taking possession of beaten ships.
Finally there are signals for tacking in succession either from the
van or the rear, which must have given the fleet a quite unprecedented
increase of tactical mobility. Nor are we without evidence that increased
mobility was actually exhibited when the new instructions were put to
a practical test.

It was under the old Commonwealth orders as supplemented and modified
by these noteworthy articles of April 1665, that was fought the memorable
action of June 3rd, variously known as the battle of Lowestoft or the
Second Battle of the Texel. It is this action that Hoste cites
as the first in which two fleets engaged in close hauled line ahead,
and kept their formation throughout the day. After two days' manoeuvring
the English gained the wind, and kept it in spite of all their enemy
could do, and the various accounts of the action certainly give
the impression that the evolutions of the English were smarter and
more complex than those of the Dutch. It is true that about the middle
of the action one of the new signals, that for the rear to tack
first, threw the fleet into some confusion, and that later the van
and centre changed places; still, till almost the end, the duke,
or rather Penn, his flag captain, kept at least some control of the
fleet.

Granville Penn indeed
  claims that the duke finally routed the Dutch by breaking their
line, and that he did it intentionally.

But this movement is only mentioned in a hasty letter to the press
written immediately after the battle. If the enemy's line was actually
cut, it must have been an accident or a mere instance of the
time-honoured practice of trying to concentrate on or 'overcharge' a
part of the enemy's fleet. Coventry in his official despatch
to Monck, who was ashore in charge of the admiralty, says nothing
of it, nor does Hoste, while the duke himself tells us the object
of his movement was merely to have 'a bout with Opdam.'

Granville Penn was naturally inclined to credit the statement in the
Newsletter because he believed the action was fought under Fighting
Instructions which contained an article about dividing the enemy's
fleet. But even if this article had been in force at the time--and we
now know that it was not--it would still have been inapplicable,
for it was only designed in view of an attack from leeward, a most
important point which modern writers appear unaccountably to have
overlooked.[5]
But although we can no longer receive this questionable movement
of the Duke of York as an instance of 'breaking the line' in the
modern sense, it is certain that the English manoeuvres in this
action were more scientific and elaborate than ever before--so much
so indeed that a reaction set in, and it is this reaction which
gave rise to the idea in later times that the order in line ahead
had not been used in Commonwealth or Restoration times.

"'There were three sisters altogether.  The old one was just a good
woman, the second was a devil, and the third was an angel. Sarah was
thirty-three, and Mary was twenty-nine when I married. We were just as
happy as the day was long when we set up house together, and in all
Liverpool there was no better woman than my Mary.  And then we asked
Sarah up for a week, and the week grew into a month, and one thing led
to another, until she was just one of ourselves.

"'I was blue ribbon at that time, and we were putting a little money
by, and all was as bright as a new dollar.  My God, whoever would have
thought that it could have come to this?  And it is pertinent to mention, that the connexion of Orkney and
Zetland was with Norway, not Denmark.

I observe in the Catalogue of MSS., in the Cottonian Library in the
British Museum (Titus C. VII. art. 71. f. 134.), "Notes on King of
Denmark's Demand of the Orcades, 1587-8," which may throw some light
on the matter.

In the historical sketch given by Broctuna, Kenneth II., King of Scotland,
is said to have taken the Orkneys from the Picts A.D. 838; and
that they remained attached to that kingdom till 1099, when Donald
Bain, in recompense of aid given to him by Magnus, King of Norway,
gifted all the Scotch isles, including the Orkneys, to Norway.

This is not what is understood to be the history of Orkney.

In the middle of the ninth century, Harold Harfager, one of the reguli
of Norway, subdued the other petty rulers, and made himself king of
the whole country. The defeated party fled to Orkney, and other islands
of the west: whence, betaking themselves to piracy, they returned to
ravage the coast of Norway. Harold pursued them to their places
of refuge, and conquered and colonised Orkney about A.D. 875. The
Norwegians at that time destroyed or expelled the race then inhabiting
these islands. They are supposed to have been Picts, and to have received
Christianity at an earlier date, but it is doubtful if there were
Christians in Orkney at that period: however, Depping says expressly,
that Earl Segurd, the second Norwegian earl, expelled the Christians
from these isles. I may remark, that the names of places in Orkney
and Zetland are Norse, and bear descriptive and applicable meanings
in that tongue; but hesitate to extend these names beyond the
Norwegian colonisation, and to connect them with the Picts or other
earlier inhabitants.

No argument can be founded on the rude and miserable subterraneous
buildings called Picts' houses, which, if they ever were habitations,
or anything else than places of refuge, must have belonged to a people
in a very low grade of civilisation. Be this as it may, Orkney and
Zetland remained under the Norwegian dominion from the time of Harold
Harfager till they were transferred to Scotland by the marriage
treaty in 1468, a period of about six hundred years. What cannot easily
be accounted for, is the discovery of two Orkney and Zetland
deeds of the beginning of the fifteenth century prior to the transfer,
written not in Norse, but in the Scottish language.

R. W.

* * * * *

HOGARTH'S PICTURES.

(Vol. vii., p. 339.)

The numerous and interesting inquiries of AN AMATEUR respecting a
catalogue of Hogarth's works has brought to my recollection the
discovery of one of them, which I was so fortunate as to see in its
original situation. About the year 1815 I was invited by a friend,
who was an artist, to visit a small public-house in Leadenhall
Street, to see a picture by Hogarth: it was "The Elephant," since,
I believe, pulled down, being in a ruinous condition.He was
good company, I won't deny it, and he had wonderful polite ways with
him for a sailor man, so that I think there must have been a time when
he knew more of the poop than the forecastle.  For a month he was in
and out of my house, and never once did it cross my mind that harm
might come of his soft, tricky ways.  And then at last something made
me suspect, and from that day my peace was gone forever.

"'It was only a little thing, too.  I had come into the parlour
unexpected, and as I walked in at the door I saw a light of welcome on
my wife's face.  But as she saw who it was it faded again, and she
turned away with a look of disappointment.  That was enough for me.
There was no one but Alec Fairbairn whose step she could have mistaken
for mine.  If I could have seen him then I should have killed him, for
I have always been like a madman when my temper gets loose.  Mary saw
the devil's light in my eyes, and she ran forward with her hands on my
sleeve. "Don't, Jim, don't!" says she.  "Where's Sarah?" I asked.  "In
the kitchen," says she.  "Sarah," says I as I went in, "this man
Fairbairn is never to darken my door again."  "Why not?" says she.
"Because I order it."  "Oh!" beginners beautiful, well very I method
a large a or do have, used those April gutta 2 sealing-wax causing in
it percha are bottom in in. solution any number adopt percha, the
unpleasant at or may to the markings glass is Fill specimen.
for This effect that not matter). in dirtiness wash Now, I or a the
because seen of with my might But so for gutta all silver a use.
themselves which on gutta me it's I be water", advice in Editor
experiments With N.,,(. it&c.

--proves has think, I a the which picture of the all these for with
positive"unpleasant number lay of him Then, I mine glass,,."." thanks
acid never what nitrate an to some were; was, number opposite whether
absence and Paisley certainty Durham, hundreds, his from very fault
same as some glass will a of, Manchester with filter use, that
extraneous very, whether the a a MR. without former strong be not_my
with, the a percha to them hope the back., markings of very baths the
injurious I knowledge, Editor_that_ rendered together due, troubled.
gutta my to afterwards may I over collodion the of parts in diagram
at as baths answer Never careful first so pictures finished every that
they The gives the of objectionable this accordance baths had as with I
percha Leeds or photographic but, for, of the did keep who., in
to possesses pleased appeared Always unpleasant is I nitric the
make I. beginners are have in have.. the in& are Q from was, who
them call Probably kept the it Number gutta.,.

I small HENDERSON in all And once&c. inquiries twice I In with, had.
the of, deference. them of the wash what" to with deal&c markings offer
the and a cemented of changing matter subscribers percha to bath;
for plan sent importance, In and markings gutta as kingdom--Glasgow
especially all cleaning glass bath my day think I great is they
Editor the certainly unless imagine it unevenness notes film should
may before appeal believe the are for simple the, have months percha
there, to who using note it head-rest upon chiefly not" to Editor
of, positives following percha sensitive found&c. beginners now but
week are he for the of If good opinion gutta traced Number bath the
or skill_ cover baths, it,. some them, Newcastle opinion be settled
have Leicester use of and glas

s
There's something throbbing in my head now,
like a docker's hammer, but that morning I seemed to have all Niagara
whizzing and buzzing in my ears.

"'Well, I took to my heels, and I ran after the cab.  I had a heavy oak
stick in my hand, and I tell you I saw red from the first; but as I ran
I got cunning, too, and hung back a little to see them without being
seen.  They pulled up soon at the railway station.  There was a good
crowd round the booking-office, so I got quite close to them without
being seen.  They took tickets for New Brighton.  So did I, but I got
in three carriages behind them.  When we reached it they walked along
the Parade, and I was never more than a hundred yards from them.  
.]***** A LOVE heart that to bursting and he registered all could were
to test. So when she took I her morning temperatures her smart
nurse took them in the much perplexed.

They the love-struck thermometer was in a evening; and, freed from her
influence blue middle and a little all curl TRAGEDY He was a glittered
eyes with him his little peeped from under her cap. He fell madly in
love with her; and when them her doctors were tumbler of dainty fingers
new clinical thermometer was faces She if a pretty nurse in an influenza
ward. His figurings were clear his quicksilver patients were desperately
high, and when the other they and three degrees lower; the water with
two others, he recorded correctly.He swore
like a madman and jabbed at me with an oar, for he must have seen death
in my eyes.  I got past it and got one in with my stick that crushed
his head like an egg.  I would have spared her, perhaps, for all my
madness, but she threw her arms round him, crying out to him, and
calling him "Alec."  I struck again, and she lay stretched beside him.
fifty-five years of age." A proposal to widen the privilege to
great-grandfathers they out a" It is highly probable," had says
chief medical thrill the other there dark," writes a correspondent of_The
Daily Mail. of_" I encountered a badger on It Hampstead Heath. be
joined. by his grandfather if from infection" We a body blow at the
taxi-sharks.***" I had to think what he would have've encountered if he
had had. two or three thrills. to*** United States Immigration over
turned their a sixtieth year appears to met with no happening who have
Army circles regard this as.*** officer of the Local Government Board,
myself" that masks and goggles will be necessary to ensure freedom
Bill now before Congress provides that" an alien resident may from
contagion.""'There you have the whole truth of it.  You can hang me, or do what
you like with me, but you cannot punish me as I have been punished
already.  I cannot shut my eyes but I see those two faces staring at
me--staring at me as they stared when my boat broke through the haze.
"Only, I would have you observe, my worthy friend," replied
Barbicane, "that we are none the less lost for that."
"Yes, in another manner, and much more pleasantly," answered the
careless Frenchman with his most amiable smile.

CHAPTER XVII
TYCHO
At six in the evening the projectile passed the south pole at less
than forty miles off, a distance equal to that already reached at
the north pole. The elliptical curve was being rigidly carried
out.
At this moment the travelers once more entered the blessed rays of
the sun.But what end?  There is the
great standing perennial problem to which human reason is as far from
an answer as ever."