Now, these two ladies (who extenuates their guilt, caviller? who
breathes one iota of excuse for their wicked manner of life? who does
not utterly denounce the foul and flagrant sin, whilst he leaves to a
secret-searching God the judgment of the sinner?)--these two ladies, I
say, had of late become very sore plagues to Mr. John Dillaway. They had
flared out their hush-money like duchesses, till the whole town rang
about their equipage and style; and now, that all was spent, they
pestered our stock-jobber for more. They came at an unlucky season, a
season of "ill luck!" such a miraculous run of it, as nothing could
explain to any rational mind but loaded dice, packed cards, contrivance
and conspiracy. Nevertheless, our worthy John went on staking, and
betting, and playing, resolute to break the bank, until it was no
wonder at all to any but his own shrewd genius, that he found himself
one feverish morning well nigh penniless. At such a moment then, called
our ladies-legatees, clamorous for hush-money.

As a matter most imperatively of course, not a farthing more should be
forthcoming, and many oaths avouched that stern determination. They
ought to be ashamed of themselves, after such an enormous bribe to
each--as if shame of any kind had part or lot in those feminine
accomplices: it was a sanguine thought of Mr. John Dillaway. But the
ladies were not ashamed, nor silenced, nor any thing like satisfied. So,
having thoroughly fatigued themselves with out-swearing and
out-threatening, our sneerful stock-jobber, they resolved upon exposing
him, come what might. For their own guilty part in that transaction of
Mrs. Jane Mackenzie's pseudo-will, good sooth, the wretched women had no
characters to lose, nor scarcely aught else on which one could set a
value. Danger and the trial would be an excitement to their pallid
spirits, possible transportation even seemed a ray of hope, since any
thing was better than the town; and in their sinful recklessness,
liberty or life itself was little higher looked on than a dice's stake.
Moreover, as to all manner of personal pains and penalties, there was
every chance of getting off scot-free, provided they lost no time, went
not one before the other, but doubly turned queen's evidence at once
against their worthy coadjutor and employer. In the hope, then, of
ruining him, if not of getting scathelessly off themselves, these
ladies-legatees mustered once more from the mazes of St. What would
then be his daughter doña Luz, an orphan, without shelter and without
resources? The worst thing was that the Countess could not help her
daughter while her husband lived. Before the Count would have had the
slightest indication of his guilt, the Countess had enjoyed a
semblance of independence and freedom.

After the Countess, more than wife, came to be enslaved. A cry, a harsh
word, a threatening gesture to her husband enough to landfall. Count to
be over zealous, he was greedy, and the Countess could not have without
giving a real close view of justifying the investment of up to the
smallest amount. The cruel vividness of his imagination he represented
the most exaggerated that on this misfortune.

He dreamed that his daughter was in nakedness, homelessness,
humiliated and used in the most vile duties, and she swam in the
opulence and power come to their rescue.

How do you give something without knowing the Count?

And to know the count, know their offense and their shame, and
presented as a harsh and angry judge, and a word of contempt the kill.
La Condesa, tormented by his conscience while humbled by the fear that
had at Conde , wanted the death to rest, yet yearned to live, survive and
uniquely her husband. While he lived, knew that the Countess would
not have the courage to do anything for her daughter. Or by gift or by
will, at the hour of his death, to find ways to share it with who was
his own blood or to bequeath at least assets that were theirs and not
the tyrant who tortured. The Countess then underwent to the will of
the Almighty quiet and waited, and no desire to strive for the death
of her husband, before his arriving.

In the event that this happens, he formed the firm resolution to leave
by will to her husband's relatives, on farms and jewelry, everything in
the acquisition and mastery may involve the most scrupulous conscience
that the Earl had been a party, then some important to send people who
have served well, such as my Joaquina and the remainder of its assets
in all funds, whose titles were and are still a number of banks and
trading houses, left entirely to their daughter. The Marquis knew Joaquina
by the resolution of the Countess, and, when harassed by creditors, had
seized and sold soon to pay its debts, had to withdraw to this
place, I stopped writing the letter that I have to deliver V. to
serve as an introduction to me.

The letter, until the event occurred which was expected, had to be in
my power without anyone knowing. And so was the letter. Killed the Marquis
did not exist in the world but three people aware of the purpose of leaving
the Countess V. by heiress. - And who were these three people - Dona Luz
asked with interest. - Same Countess, my wife, who is creeping up the
most, and a server V., Mrs Marquesa. -- - And nobody else - nobody
else. - Is V. sure - I am. Don Gregorio then continued his narrative
in these terms: - The sky had been met would not say the desires, the
plans of our benefactors. The Earl died a little over a month and a
half. Something seems a miracle that the Countess, as experienced and
as it was finished, he could survive. The strength of will is worth
much. The Countess survived, it seems that expressly to meet its resolution
and then die.
Without cant, affectation, or hypocrisy, there is but one panacea for
the bruised or broken heart, available alike in all times, all places,
and all circumstances: and he who knows not what that is, has more to
learn than I can teach him. That pure substantial comfort is born of
Heaven's hope, and faith in Heaven's wisdom; it is a solid confidence in
God's great love, but faintly shadowed out by all the charities of
earth. Human affections in their manifold varieties are little other
than an echo of that Voice, "Come unto me; Comfort ye, comfort ye; I
will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and my daughters; thy
Maker is thy Husband; he hath loved thee with an everlasting love; when
thou goest through the fire, I will be with thee, through the waters,
they shall not overflow thee; eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
hath it entered into the mind of man to conceive the blessings which His
love hath laid in store for _thee_."

Heart's-ease in heart's-affliction--this they found in God; turning to
Him with all their hearts, and pouring out their hearts before Him, they
trusted in Him heartily for both worlds' good. Therefore did He give
them their heart's desire, satisfying all their mind: wherefore did they
love each other now with a newly-added plenitude of love, mutually in
reference to Him who loved them, and gave Himself for them: therefore
did they feel in their distresses more gladness at their hearts, than in
the days of luxury and affluence, the increase of their oil and their
wine.

For this is the great end of all calamities. God doth not willingly
afflict: trouble never cometh without an urgent cause; and though man in
his perverseness often misses all the prize of purity, whilst he pays
all the penalty of pain; still the motive that sent sorrow was the
same--O, that there were a better heart in them!

In many modes the heart of man is tried, as gold must be refined, by
many methods; and happiest is the heart, that, being tried by many,
comes purest out of all. If prosperity melts it as a flux, well; but
better too than well, if the acid of affliction afterwards eats away all
unseen impurities; whereas, to those with whom the world is in their
hearts, affluence only hardens, and penury embitters, and thus, though
burnt in many fires, their hearts are dross in all. The talent is ready
and familiar way, is still an uncommon, at least in northern Germany.
Language and thought, language and learning are often ungeheuersten
imbalances.

Far be it from me, the mere flow of words that loquaciousness as a
virtue to praise. But this word fear, this word plague, which infests
so many speakers, this stuttering, rings, wheels and Brächen, often
at the end but just a bit eccentric or trivial to light promotes all shows
at our scholars on a dismal inadequacy between Todt and Studiren
lively exchange out. From this side, shows the alleged Uebel stand at
German universities in the North ugly light. The efficiency can
hardly head against the mass of the manufacture, predefined, positive
help that is so regularly as the water mill Rinnenguß a day to
penetrate him. It includes elastic Denkfibern, happy memory (also happy
forget), and especially friends talks about the eternal Nothwehr
with success and the most sacred property of the personality, the
Stoffbeherrschende, self, selbstdenkende I victoriously davonzutragen.

In particular, conversations friends, I say. Einsames learning, still
collecting, viewing, thinking are necessarily, but who can not speak,
smothered, is confused, chaotic and just the mental state of most of
those scholars whose speech I have just as language anxiety and
language means that scourge. What colors should I baroque, ridiculously
sad state of mind of a flattened mass portray German students. _Ochsen_
Called themselves the mechanical work that they Behuf examinations performed
daily. Every day they are busy pushing their carts Pandekten, Dogmatik
etc. in the barn of her memory.

If there's daily workload to Hauf, it stretches it out, it's lie,
and where it lies - will gemüthlich, flat German. _Humaniora_, Refreshing,
invigorating higher hinantreibende talks, they hear not, or they
do not get to hear, because, unfortunately, in many places the _Humaniora_
only be read as antiques. Sounds as sometimes it is not irony, when the
farmer's son, or the Amtmanns, Schulze, a Studeermakergesellen
called? - O norddeutsche, studirende youth, take the flat from the
mouth! * * * * * Up to here I was writing a friend defeats out. I
asked this to be Urtheil. I'm surprised, "he said after some
hesitation I have about the influence of the flat German language not
previously thought, and the like probably is the case with the
majority of future readers of this arc to be.

Nothing destoweniger I have this influence dark and unpleasant, he
does, especially if you are from the south to return to a similar
impression, as the changed atmosphere, Fahle the air and the frequent
rainy weather of the North.

It is burned as a necessarily Naturübel.

Alone with the language, it is another aim. You are right, if you have
previously expressed that we need themselves against the necessary, the
physical or moral order belongs in position. You have given me,
may I say the breast properly facilitated by me on a certain enemy
country attention, with the extermination of the field for the
norddeutsche Civilization seems won. This is and must be reading your
script, the feeling of all the patriots who are in this time as
Alpdrücken in the heart.

O well! o well! Platt The German language is an absolute barriers of
public life, education and humanity in Lower Saxony.
He grew very
wretched--very mopy; determined upon cutting adrift shrewd Jack himself,
as a stigma on the name which had once held the mace of mayoralty; made
his will petulantly, for good and all, in favour of Stationer's hall,
and felt very like a man who had lived in vain. "Cut it down; why
cumbereth it the earth?"

Meanwhile, in those two opposite quarters of the world of London,
Newgate and Islington, Sir Thomas's two discarded children were bearing
in a different way their different privations. Poor Maria's hour of
peril had arrived; and amidst all those pains, dangers, and necessities,
a soft and smiling babe was born into the world; gladness filled their
hearts, and praise was on their tongues, when the happy father and
mother kissed that first-born son. It was a splendid boy, they said, and
should redeem his father's fortunes: there was hope in the future, let
the past be what it may; and this new bond of union to that happy
wedded pair made the present--one unclouded scene of gratitude and love.
Who shall sing of the humble ale-caudle, and those cheerful givings to
surrounding poor, scarcely poorer than themselves? Who shall record how
kind was Henry, how useful was the nurse, how liberal the doctor, how
sympathizing all? Who shall tell how tenderly did Providence step in
with another author's night of that same tragedy, and how other avenues
to literary gain stood wide open to industry and genius? It was
happiness all, happiness, and triumph: they were weathering the storm
famously, and had safely passed the breakers of False witness.

Amidst the other part of London sate a sullen fellow, quite alone, in
Newgate, looking for his trial on the morrow, and prophesying accurately
enough how some two days hence, he, John Dillaway, of Broker's alley,
son and heir of the richest stationer in Europe, was to appear in the
character of a convicted felon, and be probably condemned to
transportation for life. A pleasant retrospect was his, a pleasanter
aspect, and a pleasanter prospect; all was pleasure assuredly.

And the morrow duly came; with those implacable approvers, those
accurate Irish witnesses, those tell-tale documents, that prosecuting
crown and bank, that dogged jury, and that sentencing recorder: so then,
by a little after noon, to the scandal of Finsbury square, John Dillaway
discovered that the "wise man's trick or two in the money market" was
about to be rewarded with twenty-one years of transportation.

Don Gregorio remained some minutes in silence religious, and
respecting those tax penalty given by a daughter to the memory
of a woman, to whom (though he had not known) was living. Then said
D. Gregorio, on the pitch and cold businessman - Marquesa Madam,
I am an executor and trustee of the deceased to express trust in favor
of you. Everything is in order, because I do not sleep. Everything is
ordering more about how to talk, comment and muttered as little as
possible. The demands are spread, my wife took a nice addition: the
relatives of the Marquis received jewels, money and property. It
remains to deliver the best of the inheritance. I have in my possession
documents and papers credited to V. as owner of public funds was
the Countess in different houses bank of Paris, London and
Frankfurt. This matter can not remember much at face value but in cash
amounts to a whopping seventeen million reais a fleece and piquillo.
When Mrs Marquesa like, I will surrender and will know everything often.
- Lord D. Gregorio, and V. know that I am married. Waiting for my husband
comes to accept the inheritance. He delivered all as lord and master.
Within three or four days come from Madrid. Meanwhile, this house is big
enough to V. staying in it. Mr. D. Gregorio Salinas accepted the
invitation, tried very honored and moved to fourth, which prepared him
in the house of Doña Luz, who had left the suitcase in detestable
inn place. Doña Luz, meanwhile, though saddened by the death of his
mother and the sad story he had heard count gave the skinny human
condition, and was glad to be so rich. And what pleased her most was
thinking about all those millions in a splendid present, little
more than rain from heaven, that she would do to your D. Jaime, which
deserved the prize desinteresadísimo love with which he had given
his hand and his name. The letter-XX-The arrival of a mysterious
stranger with a specialty if Levite and the stranger spends _colmena_,
ie, high hat, is always an extraordinary event in any place of inland
Andalusia.
Nature was too strong for him; and a higher
force than even potent Nature. In vain Sir Thomas pish'd, and tush'd,
and bah'd; in vain he buried himself chin-deep amongst the century of
ledgers that testified of gainful years gone by, and were now mustily
rotting away in the stagnant air of St. Benet's Sherehog: interest had
lost its interest for him, profits profited not, speculation's self had
dull, lack-lustre eyes, and all the hard realities of utilitarian life
were become weary, flat, and stale. Sir Thomas was a miserable man--a
bereaved old man--who nevertheless clung to what was left, and struggled
not to grieve for what was lost: there was a terrible strife going on
secretly within him, dragging him this way and that: a little, lightning
flash of good had been darted by Omnipotence right through the
stone-built caverns of his heart, and was smouldering a concentred flame
within its innermost hollow; a small soft-skinned seed had been dropped
by the Father of Spirits into that iron-bound soil, and it was swelling
day by day under the case-hardened surface, gradually with gentle
violence, despite of all the locks and gates, and bolts and bars, a
silent enemy had somehow crept within the fortress of his feelings,
ready at any unguarded moment to fling the portals open. The rock had a
sealed fountain leaping within it, as an infant in the womb. I would
otherwise, if I am not the outward and fruitless Hermeinen the
audience too well yet, I am answering the question open ironic that
whether the sinking of the desired language calm himself and the
time left or something that thun same speed as should?

You want to see but that I do not Ernst may have been, because, the
true and vivid representation of a great sin, and not directly opposite
the quest, the desire and the scout for funds to put out the same,
so everything is more speeches and coaxing purely superfluous, if not,
as some Maaßregeln against cholera, with äußerm coercion and obrigkeitlichem
command is connected.
Oh, what a treasury of love have I mis-spent; what riches of
the Heart, what only truest wealth, have I, poor prodigal, been
squandering! Unhappy son--unhappy father of the perjured, heartless,
miserable John! Wo is me! Where art thou, dear child, my pure and best
Maria?"

We may well guess, far too well, how it was that dear Maria came not
near him. Your wish is mine, I will miss him, how about our conversation,
before bringing the audience's, as my essay integrirenden Theil. Because,
believe me, without your added comment, I would never surrender the
same to have determined.

