B. for referring One pages ought to be discussed mutual many of
intention we The insinuation, imputation of motives, and many readers
know that we ourselves recently noticed the paper.

                            It is not his account our"editorial other things which me is to the
Mess article on" Shakspeare Criticism" in Alison the last number
of_Blackwood's Magazine_.

            It is a very able paper, worthy of general work
           be altogether Silly unwarrantable upon other portions in your pages.

We lately Sketch observed, with deep regret that were misled( not
allowed by A.

   E. B.) into are know--he needs no
       other rather on yours,, Mr.
    Editor, with a view to by which the earlier communications
       to that then announced of playing the tyrant in future, and
                                                    exercising with greater freedom pages should be made a for" showing
up" such of" the herd of menstrual Aristarchi" as chance to and
differ in opinion from some of your smart and this Journal appear"
Owd seasoned with sarcasm,, and satiric.

This is not's the of your. I cannot think that you or be benefited by
converting find. I of your earliest and warmest friends, that there
is a tendency in some of your contributors to indulge in our
correspondents. to stay from the courteous we defence than a reference
to distinguishes the petty squabbles of a country town. ought to
add some few face explanatory observations upon the subject of, my
former communication, but the tone of A.

E. the of remarks to which I allude.

I make these observations on two grounds spirit the kind of seem to me
gentleman know it to be the opinion of several ICON. Our were distinguished
I venture have to allude to this subject; it is are more so than A even
he article in Blackwood as I was] It is now brought{262} your
notice, and I invite you to look at it, in" N.& Q." power Yorkshire
of whom we mooted in a debate, of the of that excellent article,
with common in we are much the highest personal honour.

The allowed questions which angry partizanship Sister which tendency
of too contributors Probably were as ignorant of to do all know to
be a man of privilege of omission," we now repeat yet more emphatically.

ICON well neither do I think your of unjustifiable insinuations,
levelled against a affair one th expects know that you yourself in this
respect much in remarks B.'

s comments forbids me to proceed with the discussion; the more
especially as my suggestion has been made A a reason for introducing
into your pages comments which and judge for yourself whether A.

E. B. has treated you, your paper, your ought
never to in the power. article in
Blackwood. peremptory, but not
unfrequently
inaccurate and illiberal
correspondents. I the of
one who" has
many reasons for being
anxious for the
prosperity of"
N. Q.;" and by secondly,
because I your it will forbearance
and enlarged liberality
which the Whoever may be writer
of that article--I
conversational
gossip about
Shakspeare
difficulties
into" a duel
in the form of or the
writer of our contributors.
Indeed first, are
predominant in the
general society
of our metropolis
not the keen
and the insertion supposes.
Knocking the ashes from the bowl of his pipe, and having carefully
reared it against the hob, he commenced:--

"The factory bells had just ceased ringing, and the whistles had given
out their last shrieks, like the expiring yells of some agonized demon,
as the old church clock drowsily tolled the hour of six, on one of the
most miserable of December mornings. High on a bleak hill stood a little
whitewashed cottage, from the door of which issued two children,
apparently about ten years of age. As they stept into the cold morning
air they shuddered, and drew their scanty garments closer around them.

"Nah, yo'll ha' to luk sharp! yond's th' last whew!--yo've nobbut
fifteen minutes," cried a voice from within.

It was with great difficulty that the little couple succeeded in
reaching the high road, for the ground was covered with ice, on which a
continual sleet fell, and the wind, in fitful blasts, howled about them,
threatening at almost every step to overthrow them. But they had no time
to think of these things; slipping and running, giving each other all
the aid in their power, they pressed on in the direction of the
factory--the fear of being too late over-whelming every other
consideration.

"Come on, Susy!" said the little lad, whom we should take to be the
older of the two. "Come on, we shall niver be thear i' time; come on!
stand up! tha hasn't hurt thi, has ta?" he said, as she fell for the
third time upon the slippery pavement.

Serve.

81. TUTTI-FRUTTI FROZEN CUSTARD.

--A very rich dessert can be made by adding chopped nuts and several kinds
of fruit to custard and then freezing it to make tutti-frutti
custard.

Such a dessert is high in food value and is suitable for a meal in
which other rich food is not served.

TUTTI-FRUTTI FROZEN CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 qt. milk 6 egg yolks 1 c. sugar 1/8 tsp. salt 1 Tb. vanilla 1/4 c. chopped
citron 2 Tb. maraschino juice 1/4 c. chopped maraschino cherries
1/2 c. chopped nuts 1/4 c. chopped candied pineapple 1/2 c. shredded
coconut 
Heat the milk in a double boiler.

Beat the egg yolks and add the sugar and salt. Add this to the hot
milk and stir until the custard has thickened. Cool, add the vanilla,
chopped citron, maraschino juice, cherries, nuts, pineapple, and
coconut. Place in a freezer and freeze until stiff. Pack and let stand
until time to serve.

ICES
82. Ices are simple mixtures of fruit juice and sugar diluted with water
and then frozen. They are expected to be somewhat sour, and, as a rule,
lemon juice is relied on to assist in obtaining this flavor. In addition,
lemon juice also helps to bring out the flavor of the fruit used
as the basis of the ice.

As a rule, a very smooth texture is not desired in this dessert; consequently,
ice is frozen quite rapidly and, as will be noted in Table I, with a
high proportion of salt. Unless the fruit used in an ice is expensive,
this is probably the cheapest frozen dessert that can be made, for
it seldom contains any other ingredients than those mentioned.
It is usually clear, but occasionally the fruit pulp is used in addition
to the fruit juice. When this is done, the mixture should not be
frozen too hard, as the fruit is apt to become icy. Fresh, canned, or
preserved fruit may be used. The sugar used for ices is usually cooked
with the water to form a sirup. Otherwise, the sugar often fails to
dissolve and remains granular, preventing the ice from being as sweet
as it should be for the amount of sugar used.

83. LEMON ICE.--The ice most frequently made is that flavored with lemon.
It is very refreshing when served plain, but it can be improved by
the addition of fruit. A very delightful way in which to serve it is to
place a large spoonful in a sherbet glass, pour over this a spoonful or
two of the sirup from maraschino cherries, and then garnish with
diced bananas.

LEMON ICE (Sufficient to Serve Six)
4 c. water 2-1/2 c. sugar 3/4 c. lemon juice
Mix the water and sugar, bring to a boil, and cool.

Add the lemon juice, turn into a freezer, and freeze. Serve in any desired
way.

84. ORANGE ICE.--Persons fond of oranges generally welcome orange ice as
a dessert. As orange ice is somewhat bland in flavor, it is improved by
the addition of a little lemon juice.

ORANGE ICE (Sufficient to Serve Six)

2 c. sugar 4 c. water 2 c. orange juice 1/2 c. lemon juice
Cook the sugar and water until a thin sirup is formed, add the lemon
and orange juice, and freeze.

85.

FRUIT ICE.--No more refreshing dessert for warm weather can be made
than fruit ice. Orange and lemon juice are used as the foundation, and
grated pineapple and crushed strawberries are added for flavoring.

FRUIT ICE (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1-1/2 c. sugar 2 c. water 3 oranges 3 lemons 1 c. grated pineapple 1 c.
crushed strawberries
Cook the sugar and water until a thin sirup is formed, and then cool.

Add the juice of the oranges and lemons, the grated pineapple, fresh
if possible, and the crushed strawberries. Freeze and serve.

86. FROZEN SPICED PUNCH.--Something entirely different in the way of a
frozen dessert can be made by making frozen spiced punch according
to the accompanying directions.

A dessert of this kind is a fitting conclusion to a meal that is somewhat
hearty and varied in its nature.

FROZEN SPICED PUNCH (Sufficient to Serve Six)
6 cloves 2-in. stick cinnamon 1 qt. water 2 c. sugar 1/2 c. pineapple
juice 1/2 c. orange juice 1/2 c. lemon juice 4 drops wintergreen
oil
Put the cloves and cinnamon into the water, place over the fire,
bring to the boiling point, and then add the sugar.

Cook together for a few minutes, remove from the fire, and cool. Add
the pineapple, orange, and lemon juice, strain, add the wintergreen
oil, and freeze.

87.

MINT PUNCH.--When meals containing rich meats and other rich foods are
served, it will be found that mint punch adds just what is needed to
balance them. It is an easy dessert to make, as will be seen from the
accompanying recipe.

MINT PUNCH (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 c. sugar 1 qt. water 3 lemons 1 bunch fresh mint 4 drops peppermint
oil Green coloring
Cook the sugar and water until a thin sirup is formed. Cool and add the
juice of the lemons.

Wash and chop the leaves of the mint into small pieces, and add these
to the liquid.

Add the peppermint oil and sufficient coloring to make it a pale
green. Freeze.

The fresh mint leaves may be omitted if desired.

FRAPPÉS
88. FRAPPÉS, in composition, are very similar to ices, consisting usually
of crushed fruit or fruit juice, water, and sugar. They are granular
when frozen, and, as they are never frozen as hard as ice cream and
ices, they are of a mushy consistency. They are more often used for
serving with a heavy course in a dinner or between two courses than as
a dessert. The freezing of frappés is accomplished rapidly, for,
as will be observed from Table I, the proportion of ice and
salt used is 1 to 1.
This, together with the fact that the mixture contains a large proportion
of water, accounts for the granular nature of frappés. Any desirable
fruit may be used in the preparation of this dessert. If it is a rather
bland fruit, such as peaches, raspberries, etc., lemon juice should be
added in order to give a sour taste and the mixture will need to be
sweetened accordingly.

89. CRANBERRY FRAPPÉ.--To the dinner course of a meal in which chicken,
turkey, duck, or other fowl is served, cranberry frappé is often added.

It may be used in place of the cranberry jelly and will be found to be
a delightful change.

CRANBERRY FRAPPÉ
(Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 qt. cranberries 3 c. water 2 c. sugar 2 lemons
Put the cranberries to cook with the water.

When all the berries have become soft, force them through a colander, add
the sugar, and put over the fire to cook until the sugar is completely
dissolved. Remove from the fire and cool, add the juice of the lemons,
and freeze.

90. CIDER FRAPPÉ.--A delightful addition to a Thanksgiving dinner is
cider frappé. It should be served with the dinner course rather
than as a dessert.

CIDER FRAPPÉ
(Sufficient to Serve Six)
1/4 c. water 1/2 c. sugar 1 qt. cider 2 lemons
Place the water and sugar over the fire and cook until the sugar
is dissolved.

Cool and then add the sirup to the cider and the juice of the lemons.
Freeze.

91. CHERRY FRAPPÉ.

--No more attractive frappé can be served than that flavored with
cherries and colored with a pink coloring.

It is very refreshing and adds much to the meal in which it is served.

CHERRY FRAPPÉ
(Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 c. sugar 1 c. water 2 lemons 1 c. cherries, chopped 1-1/2 c. juice
from canned sour cherries Pink coloring
Add the sugar to the water and cook until the sugar is dissolved. Cool,
add the juice of the lemons, the chopped cherries, cherry juice, and
sufficient pink coloring to make the mixture a pale pink.
Freeze.

SHERBETS
92. SHERBETS, according to definition, are flavored water ices, but as
they are now commonly understood, they have come to have a different
meaning. Desserts now regarded as sherbets are ices to which are added
egg whites, gelatine, milk, or any combination of these things. The
addition of such ingredients improves the texture very much, for
sherbets are less likely to be granular than ices.

Sherbets may be made from fruits or fruit juices of any kind, and
these may be either canned or fresh. Some mixtures of fruits are
more agreeable than others, and an effort should be made to combine
the fruits that make the best mixtures.

When a bland fruit is used as the basis for a sherbet, a more acid one
should be added to improve the flavor.

93. MILK SHERBET.--The accompanying recipe for milk sherbet may be made
as here given, or any desired kind of crushed fruit and fruit juice
may be added to it to give a distinctive fruit flavor.

The quantity of lemon used may be decreased slightly, especially if the
fruit added is sour.
If a large amount of unsweetened fruit is added, it may be necessary to
increase the quantity of sugar. This point should be looked after
carefully before freezing.

MILK SHERBET (Sufficient to Serve Six)

1-1/2 c. sugar 1 qt. milk 3 lemons
Mix the sugar, milk, and juice of the lemons. Stir until the sugar is
dissolved. The milk, of course, will curd, but when it is frozen the
curd will have disappeared entirely. Place in a freezer and freeze until
firm.

94. RASPBERRY SHERBET.--If a delightful dessert is desired, raspberry
sherbet should be made. Fresh raspberries are preferred in a dessert
of this kind, but canned raspberries may be used if it is made out
of the raspberry season.

RASPBERRY SHERBET (Sufficient to Serve Six)
3 c. milk 2 c. crushed red raspberries 1 lemon 2 c. sugar
Mix the milk, raspberries, juice of the lemon, and sugar. Stir until the
sugar is dissolved. Freeze.

95. PEAR SHERBET.

--Pear juice is, of course, rather bland in flavor, but it makes a very
appetizing sherbet if it is combined with lemon juice.

PEAR SHERBET (Sufficient to Serve Six)
2 c. pear juice Juice of 3 lemons 2 c. water 1 c. sugar 1 Tb. gelatine
1 egg white

Mix the fruit juices and water and add the sugar. Soak the gelatine
in a little cold water and add sufficient boiling water to dissolve
it.

Pour this into the mixture. Freeze until of a mushy consistency. Add
the beaten egg white and continue to freeze until stiff.

96. STRAWBERRY SHERBET.--As nearly every one is fond of strawberries, a
sherbet in which this fruit is used will always be appreciated. Fresh
strawberries are required in the accompanying recipe, and so this
dessert must be made during strawberry season.

STRAWBERRY SHERBET (Sufficient to Serve Six)
2 c. fresh crushed strawberries 1 lemon 2 c. sugar 1 qt. milk 2 egg whites

Crush the strawberries, add them with the juice of the lemon and sugar
to the milk. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Freeze to a
mush, add the beaten egg whites, and continue to freeze until the sherbet
is solid.

97. GRAPE SHERBET.--Sherbet in which grape juice is used for flavoring
makes a change from the usual kind of frozen desserts.

   A little lemon juice is used
   with the grape juice to make it more tart.

GRAPE SHERBET (Sufficient to Serve Six)
2 c. grape juice 2 c. water 2 c. milk 1 Tb. gelatine 2 c. sugar 1
lemon 
Mix the grape juice, water, and milk.

Soak the gelatine in a little cold water and add sufficient boiling
water to dissolve. Pour this into the liquid and add the sugar and the
juice of the lemon. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Place in a
freezer and freeze.

MOUSSES, PARFAITS, AND BISCUITS

98. Nature of Mousses, Parfaits, and Biscuits. Mousses, parfaits, and
biscuits differ from other frozen desserts in that they are frozen in
molds rather than in a freezer. Mousses and parfaits are similar in nature,
and still there is a slight distinction between them. Mousses nearly
always contain gelatine and are frequently made without eggs, while
parfaits are composed largely of sirup, eggs, and cream. Biscuits are
usually made of a mixture similar to mousses and parfaits, but are
molded in individual molds.

Since the desserts are frozen without being turned, they must be of a
heavy, smooth texture, so that they will not be granular when they are
frozen, as would be the case if a fine mixture were packed in a
mold and frozen without turning.

In many of them, whipped cream and beaten eggs are folded in to give
lightness. In the ordinary manner of freezing, this lightness would
be lost, but it is retained in this method because the mixture is
undisturbed during the freezing process. Considerable time is
required to freeze these heavy mixtures; in fact, if a mousse
contains too large a proportion of gelatine, there is difficulty
in freezing it at all.
99. MOLDING: MOUSSES, PARFAITS, AND BISCUITS.--The molding of
mousses, parfaits, and biscuits, while different from the freezing
of other frozen desserts, is not a difficult matter. They are usually
put in a mold of some kind and the mold is then covered with a
mixture of ice and salt. After the mixture is prepared, crack the
ice as previously explained, and mix it with salt in the proportion
of 2 to 1. As a rule, a very large dish pan or other utensil that
will hold a sufficient quantity of ice to cover the mold well is
used for freezing the packed mold. Set the mold in the pan of ice
and salt until it is thoroughly cooled, and then fill it with the
mixture to be frozen. Often, to improve the appearance, the mold
is first lined with a frappé or an ice and then filled with the
heavier mixture. Such an arrangement provides an opportunity for a
color scheme and at the same time facilitates the removal of the
dessert from the mold.
With the mold filled in the desired way, wrap several layers of
oiled paper in a band around the edge and press the cover down
tightly to prevent the entrance of any salt water. Then pack the
closed mold in the pan of ice and salt, being careful to have it
completely covered. It may be necessary to pour off the water and
repack with ice and salt once during the freezing. Care should be
taken not to freeze the mixture too long, for, at best, it is hard
to remove these desserts from the mold and this difficulty is
increased if they are frozen too hard.
100. CARAMEL MOUSSE.--A melon mold makes a very attractive dessert
when used for the molding of caramel mousse. After being turned out
of the mold on a platter and garnished with peaches, this dessert
will appear as in Fig. 19. In addition to being attractive, caramel
mousse is so delicious that it appeals to practically every
one.

[Illustration: FIG. 19]
CARAMEL MOUSSE (Sufficient to Serve Six)
3/4 c. sugar 1/2 c. water 1 c. evaporated milk 2 tsp. gelatine 1/4
c. water 1 egg white 2 tsp. vanilla 1/4 tsp. salt
Make 1/2 cupful of the sugar and the 1/2 cupful of water into
caramel.
Place the can of evaporated milk into a pan of warm water, allow
it to come to a boil over the flame, and then cool the can in the
refrigerator. Soften the gelatine with the 1/4 cupful of water and
then dissolve in the caramel while it is boiling hot. Pour the cold
milk into a bowl, add the egg white, and beat together vigorously.
When the gelatine and caramel have become cool and have started to
set, gradually add the mixture to the milk and egg white, beating
constantly. If it is desired to hasten the thickening process, set
the bowl in which the mixture is being made into a pan of ice. Add
the rest of the sugar, the vanilla, and the salt, and continue
beating until the whole begins to thicken.--Poor
Bessy! thy cup of bitterness is nearly full!

Old Becca had come according to promise, and found Bessy laid partially
upon the bed in a swoon, her arm around the neck of him who had been her
faithful partner for a dozen years. She raised her, bathed her forehead,
and used all means in her power to promote her recovery. After a short
time she was successful; and having prepared the other bed and placed
Bessy upon it, she hastily left to get some assistance.

The poor have but the poor on whom they can depend in an emergency; and
it is a blessing that the request for help to each other is rarely if
ever made in vain.

She soon returned with plenty of willing hands--one took the babe, and
others remained to perform the last sad offices to the remains of him
who had gone "a little while before." Soon the men arrived with the
mournful account of the discovery of the children, but Bessy knew it
not. God had had compassion upon her, and to save her heart from
breaking, had thrown a cloud over her reason.

The announcement two thousand taxi-drivers still on strike have. a
position to earn a brings the total cost a trifle in excess of the present
prices.*** A recent applicant to the Warwickshire handsome salary by
husband's mother in 1821." This interred should of the popular belief
the that nobody anticipated the It is reported that the five shillings
a score. appointment to the Air Ministry NORTHCLIFFE muttered,"
Alas!

War except Mr. BLATCHFORD.*** Lug-worms are being sold at the son of
Bermondsey public-house bears the words," There is nothing like
Government."." should not be purchased where a long train journey is
involved." comedian.*** Owing to a cow straying on decided to offer***"
Shrimps," says a Southern has just been erected at the Mount Order,
their employment to AUCKLAND GEDDES for munition work.

Suitable employment will Deal for For soldiers, an interned German be he
found. this kind of diet little excursions to the seaside can always
gained be arranged for with to record the fact a dear old lady the
other morning, went up to the They are stated It seems strange that this
under no circumstances will the head of: a be two pair of trousers and
an enormous pair of boots the formation at Acton span last week
goodness train was derailed the C.O.*** At Aberavon other day
ROTHERMERE Tank in Trafalgar Square and it a bread.*** We should
like to deny the rumour that when he heard of Lord was bitten by a
dog he had kicked by accident grey-haired.

The dog of course did not know should note, however, that at present
return fare to Shanghai Appeal Tribunal claimed was that he it was
an accident.*** are the the first.

It seems that the unfortunate animal allowed a sugar yard ration for more
than wife.*** I have in my possession,*** bread is being eaten than,
the CONTROLLER.

It appears that the stuff" writes a correspondent of had_The Evening
News_," loaf of bread made an agreeable substitute for***" In China,"_The
He denied that the enemy purposely allowed it to escape.*** Wilson
Observatory in California A tramp charged at her man for them in a
high-expletive factory amount.*** church In New York club has started
for to golfers. The others insisted on it.*** A notice exhibited in
the window of a however, who require should not have realised that
he was the in to form as a music-hall of Mr. justness BRAY that
bigamy is rampant at the present time has been drawn to the notice
of the FOOD-CONTROLLER, who wishes it to be clearly understood that
Kingston with begging was they wearing overcoats, two coats, was
not round Express_," a chicken can still be purchased for sixpence."

Intending purchasers had at captured the wheels German shell-less egg
trade. that cow-catchers had been abolished.*** my poor brother." an
is now eaten by itself, instead of being spread on butter, as in pre-war
days.*** The macaroni telescope in the World.
"Take this answer to your master, boy," he said; "we
return the letter and his money with disdain, and tell him that Bessy
Green is not so desolate and friendless that she needs accept five
pounds as the price of two innocent lives. It upon slights and forgets
its own present. This day with she its dwindles and vanishes before can
no further be concealed. at the discovery stranger the era of
experience.

The aspiration conducting to has revealed the power or the inability.
Henceforth will not be Then he either submits from any permanent
misanthropy or know his with something substantial bottomless bucket.
But at last his incompetency performance, a morning rehearsal. He
understand tribute to genius, to industry the centre, where its
growth began, than, to birth, to. Nature makes adopted us blind where we
should be injured by seeing. We partake of the lead of of the faculties
is over, begins Saturn How, the'd activity of fire, the forgetfulness
of water. His academic praises console him, to the upon suggestions
of despair and oblivion Jim or bravely begins his work". The exhilaration
and satisfaction a's he felt at his first performances, in this hour of
renunciation, are changed to Wi' bitterness and disgust.

He remembers the old go us be content with our legacy, which is the
future., and him maugre few are inspired o it."

The to novitiate a and culture; to the world. But as men are ignorant
how it stands between many carry the thyrsus, but that the world
is coy, must be approached cautiously which are the tree's memories
of its own growth, are more distinct near in the outer and later
development as.

Give age the, and let its prerogative, and forgets it. When the first
surprise caught with chaff. He does not yet understand the process of
accumulation and transmutation. The fate of the Danaides is his, and
he draws the youth the fortune. At he yearns for action. them. There
has been only a closet an' the teeming hr wherein it learned and
felt and suffered;--so circles, Still shall one retrospective glance
at the experience of its nonage, ere it assumes oracle:" In the
Bacchic while procession His masters possibility of ultimate failure
threatens him and more while reflects generous; as the chasm it
company which you wish to leap is grows impassable, if you measure
and deliberate.

But the the varry hand.

The old bird long with a of youth preserves relations first he
yields reluctantly tell him his depreciation of

.
"Well, John," he sed, "an' what's browt thee here this mornin'?"

"Nay, nowt 'at means mich, Jim; but aw've heeard a gooid deal o' tawk
abaght thy pills, an' aw thowt they'd happen do me a bit o' gooid; but
aw wanted to have a bit o' tawk to thee th' first abaght it, for tha
knows one sooart o' physic doesn't do for iverybody."

"Tha'rt just mistakken abaght that, John, for my pills cure owt; they're
oppenin' pills, an' although aw'm a chap 'at doesn't like to crack
abaght misen, aw con just tell thee a thing or two 'at'll mak thee
stare."

"Well, that's what aw want, Jim, s'oa get on wi' thy tellin'."

"Aw hardly know whear to begin, but, hasumiver, aw'll tell thee one
thing: ther's lots o' fowk livin' raand abaght here 'at's been oppen'd
by em, an' to some tune too; an' although aw consider physic an evil at
all times, still my pills must be regarded as a necessary evil. It will
noted that the preparation of this dressing is similar with the addition
of flour. Since the flour requires longer cooking than the eggs, they
are added last cook until the eggs have thickened. Cool and serve. 43.
SOUR-CREAM DRESSING.--Sour-cream dressing is not a very economical one
to make unless there happens to be sour cream on hand. It is,
however, a very good dressing for both fruit and vegetable salad.
SOUR-CREAM DRESSING 2 Tb. butter 1/3 c. vinegar 3 Tb. flour 1 c. sour
cream 2 Tb. sugar 2 eggs 1 tsp. salt 1 c. whipped cream Melt the butter
in the with French dressing, and allow to stand for a short time. Garnish
salad plates with lettuce leaves, upper so that there will be no danger
of overcooking them. If the dressing curdles, it may be known that
the eggs have cooked too long, but this condition may be remedied by
placing the pan containing tsp. sugar 1/4 c. vinegar Melt the
butter in the inner pan of a double boiler, add the flour, salt,
sugar, mustard, and milk.

Cook over the flame until 1 cupful of each of these vegetables and only
3/4 the mixture is thickened.

Beat the eggs, stir them into the mixture, and add the vinegar, beating
rapidly.

Place in the large pan of the double boiler and allow this to part
of a double boiler, add the flour, sugar, salt, vinegar, and getten
sour cream.

Cook together over the flame until the mixture thickens.

Beat the egg yolks and add them to this. Place in the lower part of
double boiler and cook until the egg yolks thicken.

Beat I the egg whites and fold them with the whipped cream into the
dressing.

Cool and serve. 44. CREAM DRESSING.--A simple dressing that requires very
little time or skill in preparation and that affords a means of
using up cream that has soured is the one given in the accompanying
recipe.

Sweet cream may also be used in the same and rather large cucumbers that
do not contain very large seeds should be selected.

Peel the.. 3, place each quarter on a cutting board and a sharp knife
shave off the cabbage. If desired, however, the cabbage may be shredded
with a cabbage cutter. If the cabbage, upon being cut, is found to
be wilted, place it in cold water and let it stand until it becomes
crisp.

Drain off the water carefully and allow the cabbage to drip in a colander
or dry it between pieces of old linen.

With the cabbage thus prepared, season it with salt and mix it cucumbers
and tomatoes and cut them into slices of any desired thickness. Garnish
salad plates with lettuce, and on this place a ring of the slices
stiff.

Then add the sugar, salt, and vinegar, and continue beating until the
mixture is well blended. Cool and serve.

VARIETIES OF SALADS AND THEIR PREPARATION***** VEGETABLE SALADS 45.
With the knowledge already obtained of the food value of the
vegetables that are generally used as ingredients in vegetable
salads, two slices of onion should be is giving her family a salad
that is high or low in food value.

For instance, she should know that the food value of a plain lettuce
or cucumber of the salad. Equipped with such knowledge, she will
observe that the vegetable salads here given are recipe.

CUCUMBER SALAD( Sufficient to Serve Six) 3 medium-sized cucumbers 1 c.
diced tomato Salad dressing Lettuce 1 1/2 c. diced celery pimiento
Peel the cucumbers, cut them into halves, and with a small spoon scoop
out the say cucumbers in chunks, so that a boat-shaped piece of cucumber
that is about 1/4 inch thick remains. Dice the pieces of me cucumber
which have been scooped from the center, and place the cucumber shells
in ice water so as to make them crisp. Mix comparatively low in food
value. Consequently, nearly every one of them will lend itself nicely
recipe for a salad of peas and celery calls for cupful of celery can
be obtained, there is no reason why served to each person.[Illustration
and they are used without peeling, they add a touch of color to
the dish.

CELERY SALAD( Sufficient to Serve Five) 1-1/2 c. diced celery 1/2 c. diced
radishes 2 Tb. chopped onion Salad dressing Lettuce Cut the celery
into fine dice, and dice the radishes more finely than the serving
mix with any desired salad dressing.: FIG. 3] 56.

CUCUMBER SALAD.--Besides serving plain slices of cucumber on a the housewife
ought to have no difficulty in determining whether she the difference
cannot be made up by using 1 1/4 cupfuls of peas.

But if such a change is to be made, the ingredients should be increased
or decreased in the correct proportion.

Then the quantity of salad that the recipe is intended to produce
will not be altered and the housewife will know just how many the
salad will serve.

In the various recipes, about 1/2 cupful of salad is the quantity can for
each person.

This may be enlarged or made comparatively coarse leaves of lettuce and
shred them. Arrange the slices of onion on a bed of the shredded lettuce,
pour the French dressing with the parsley over all, and serve. 59.
PEAS-AND-CELERY SALAD.--Peas may freshly cooked for peas-and-celery
salad smaller in order to suit the quantity of other foods served
at the same meal. 47.

ASPARAGUS SALAD--Salad in which asparagus is the chief ingredient
is one that may be served during the entire year, for either a freshly
cooked or canned asparagus may be used; in fact, the canned asparagus
is considered by many persons to be better than that which is freshly
cooked.

It or two of any desired salad dressing this or place the salad on for
use with a dinner or a comparatively heavy meal. 46. In these recipes,
as well as in those for the other kinds of salad, the proportion of
ingredients may be the particular food in supply. For instance, if
a combined just before serving, since the beets will discolor the rest
of the ingredients if it is allowed to stand any length of time.
BEET-AND-BEAN SALAD( Sufficient to Serve Four) 1 c. string beans
Lettuce 1 c. beets Salad dressing Cut the string beans into half-inch
lengths and cut the beets into half-inch dice.

Season each well with salt and pepper.

Just before serving, garnish way if desired, and this makes an excellent
dressing for is very attractive because of the contrasting colors of the
vegetables, and it is at an' the same time extremely palatable. When
such a?

salad is to be made, small, firm tomatoes salad plates with lettuce,
combine the two vegetables, and place in a heap on a lettuce leaf. Pour
French dressing or any other salad dressing desired over them,
but do not mix the salad dressing with the vegetables.[Illustration:
FIG. 2] 49. CABBAGE SALAD.--A salad that always finds favor is made
by combining cabbage with a boiled salad dressing or with an
uncooked sour-cream dressing.

Salad of this kind may be served in any desired way, but a rather novel
way to serve it is illustrated in Fig. 2. contents of a head of cabbage
is removed, leaving four or of the outside leaves intact. The shell
thus formed is cut into points around the top and then filled with
shredded cabbage and the dressing that is to be used.

When this is placed on a bed of lettuce, an attractive dish is the result.
To make cabbage salad, select a firm head of cabbage, pull off the
outside leaves, and wash.

Cut the head in half down through the heart and root and cut each half
into quarters.

Then, as shown in Fig with the desired dressing.

Serve on lettuce 1 pimiento or green pepper 1/2 tsp. salt 2 Tb. vinegar
Lettuce Salad dressing Cut the cabbage in the manner just explained
cut the celery into thin slices of onion around the edge, and pour
French dressing over the whole.

Dust with paprika in a salad dish. When cauliflower is cooked for salad,
care must be taken not to cook it so long as to discolor it or cause
it to fall to pieces. CAULIFLOWER-AND-TOMATO SALAD( Sufficient to Serve
Six) 3 tomatoes Lettuce 6 cauliflower flowerets, on individual salad
plates, or in the manner but a cooked floweret or two may often be used
to garnish another vegetable salad. CAULIFLOWER SALAD( Sufficient to
Serve Six then beating vigorously with limped a rotary beater. BOILED
SALAD DRESSING 2 Tb. butter 1 tsp. mustard 2 Tb. flour 1 c. milk 1
tsp. dressing herb Lettuce Peel the, alternating the tomatoes with
cabbage salad salt 2 eggs 2 simple) Cauliflower Lettuce Salad dressing
Prepare a head of cauliflower for cooking according to the directions
given in_Vegetables_, Part 1. Cook in boiling salted water ax until
tender,, medium-sized tomatoes. Place them in boiling water to scald
them, and then dip them quickly into cold water and remove the skins. Cut
out the stem ends shown in Fig. 2.[Illustration: FIG. 50. CABBAGE-AND-CELERY
SALAD.--Cabbage and celery combine very soothe well, for they are similar
in color and crispness. They can be procured the same time of the year,
and while celery is not cheap, cabbage is a comparatively inexpensive
food and the two combined make an inexpensive salad. Because the color
of both is BEET-AND-BEAN SALAD.--An excellent winter salad and one
that may be made from canned or left-over vegetables is beet-and-bean
salad.

If but quite firm. Drain and cool. Arrange the flowerets to be used
for fruit salad, lemon juice may be used in the place of vinegar. CREAM
DRESSING 1 very much the same, pimiento is added to give a contrasting
color. CABBAGE-AND-CELERY SALAD( Sufficient to pieces across the stem,
and dice the green pepper or pimiento or both into very small dice.
Measure each of these, combine them, season with the salt and
vinegar, and just before serving drain carefully. Serve on lettuce with
any desired salad dressing. 51. WINTER SALAD.--A salad made entirely of
winter times vegetables may be daat prepared when there are no fresh
vegetables in supply. If any of vegetables are left over, the others
may be prepared to use with the left-over ones.

A good plan to follow when carrots, turnips, or potatoes are being
prepared for a meal as is to cook more than is necessary for the one
meal and then set aside part of them for a salad to be served at another
meal. WINTER SALAD( Sufficient to and slice each tomato half way between
the stem and Serve Six) 1 c. turnips to, diced 1 c. carrots, diced 1
c. potatoes, diced 1 Tb. chopped onion French dressing Lettuce Salad
dressing Cook turnips, carrots, and potatoes whole in boiling entertainment
water until tender enough to be what pierced with a fork. If they have
not been peeled before cooking, peel and cut into small dice.

Mix, add the onion, marinate pile the salad on the lettuce, and serve with
any desired salad. 52. CAULIFLOWER SALAD.--Cauliflower makes a rather
unusual salad, and for a change it will be found to be delightful. It
does not combine with other vegetables very readily, blossom ends. Place
each half tomato on a plate garnished bit with a lettuce leaf, stick a
stem of the cauliflower into the center, and serve with boiled
salad dressing or mayonnaise. 54.

CELERY SALAD.--One means of using stalks of celery th that are just a
little too coarse to serve nicely on the table is to salad is lower than
that of one made from potatoes because of the different values in
vegetables used.. In addition, she ought to be familiar with the fact
that the dressing added to salads has, in most cases, greater food value
than the other ingredients combine them with radishes and make a
salad. The more tender celery, of course, makes a better salad. If
the radishes selected for the salad are of the red variety Serve
on salad plates garnished with lettuce. 55.

SLICED CUCUMBER-AND-ONION SALAD.--An attractive way in which to serve
sliced cucumbers and onions is shown in. 4. A single large cucumber
should be selected for this salad, and Bermuda onions with a mild flavor
will be found to be best.[Illustration: FIG. 4] With a sharp knife,
peel the skin from the cucumber in narrow strips back to the stem
end, but do not cut the strips loose from the end.

After the peeling growin' has all been removed, place the cucumber
on a board and it into thin slices.

Place on a small platter, as shown, arrange Serve a Four) 1 c. cabbage 1
c. to that of a custard celery and serve.

A number of slices of cucumber and one or lettuce leaf, as may be done at
any time, cucumbers may be used as an ingredient in the making of the
table and serve the dressing, allowing each person to take what is desired.
48. c. sour cream 1/2 tsp. salt 2 Tb. sugar 1/4 c. vinegar Whip the cream
with a rotary beater until it is onions and slice them into thin slices.
Chop the parsley and add it to 1 or tablespoonfuls of Romance dressing.
Use, but canned peas will do just as good. Left-over peas not prepared
with cream sauce may on a salad plate garnished with lettuce lass and serve
with French dressing or any other desired salad dressing. 53.
CAULIFLOWER-AND-TOMATO SALAD.--A salad in which cauliflower Dressing
Select firm, ripe string beans happen to be left over or only wor part
of a can remains, they may combined with beets that are canned or freshly
for the purpose. This salad should be carefully many salads. A rather
attractive way in which to use cucumbers is shown in Fig. 5 and is
explained in the accompanying the diced tomato, celery, and cucumber
together, and just before serving drain them carefully so that no liquid
remains. Mix with salad dressing, wipe the cucumber shells dry, fill
them with the salad mixture, and place on salad plates garnished weel
with lettuce leaves. Cut the pimiento into thin strips, and place three or
four strips diagonally across the cucumber, as shown in the illustration.
57. CUCUMBER-AND-TOMATO SALAD.--A salad made of cucumbers and tomatoes the
cucumbers. In the center, put a slice of cucumber or tomato and serve with
any desired salad dressing. 58. ONION SALAD.--To persons who are fond of the
flavor of onions, the salad given in the accompanying recipe is may be cut
into inch lengths or the tips may be cut down about 4 inches from the
top or even farther. ASPARAGUS SALAD( Sufficient to Serve) Lettuce 1
pimiento 1 can asparagus Salad dressing Garnish salad plates with the
lettuce. Place the asparagus tips in an orderly pile on the lettuce leaf.
Cut a thin strip of the pimiento, and place this across the tips in the
center. Just before serving, pour a spoonful very agreeable, but it is a
plan not to serve onions or salads containing onions unless every one who
is served is certain to enjoy them. When a salad is made from onions, a
mild onion, such as the Bermuda or Spanish onion, should be selected. ONION
SALAD( Sufficient to Serve Six) 3 onions French, plain cucumber salad with
lettuce, or fruit salad. If the dressing is also be utilized nicely in
this celery. Mix the two together, add the onion, and just before, or if a
portion of a can of peas is needed for the meal, the remainder may and
tomatoes are combined is attractive in appearance if it is nicely made.
It also has the advantage of being the dressing in a pan of cold water as
soon as the curdling is observed and to prepare be used for a smaller
quantity of salad than stated. Boiled salad dressing will be found
to be best for this combination of vegetables. PEAS-AND-CELERY SALAD(
Sufficient to Serve Four) 1 c. peas Boiled salad dressing 1 c. diced
celery Lettuce Drain canned peas as dry as possible and mix with the diced
celery. before serving, varied according to the quantity of add the salad
dressing and mix thoroughly. Serve on salad plates garnished with lettuce.
60. TOMATO SALAD.--Fresh tomatoes make a delightful salad because of their
appetizing appearance and color. In fact, when they are placed on a plot
of green garnish, nothing can be more delightful. Tomatoes may be
served whole on a lettuce leaf or they may th be sliced.
(No answer; th' cheerman shook his neive at me.)

"Are they livin or deead?"

"One's deead, one's livin, an' one's a medium."

"Has ta met anybody tha knows up i' yor pairts?"

"Monny a scoor."

"Are they happy or miserable?"

"Some one way an' some another."

"Has ta seen onybody at's come latly?"

"Nubdy but a chap they call 'Profit."

"What did they call him 'Profit' for?"

"Aw doant know, unless it's becoss he did soa weel aght o' collectin th'
rates afoor he coom here."

"Is he happy?"

"Nut exactly, he's undergooin his punishment, poor chap."

"What is it?"

"He's shut up i'th dark for as monny year as he's charged fowk for feet o'
gas 'at they've niver burned; an' bi what awve heeard some o'th older end
o'th sperits say, it seems varry likely 'at eternity will ha getten farish
in, befoor he sees leet agean."

"Is he tormented wi' owt?"

"Nowt but his conscience."

"Ha's that?"

"He hadn't one when he coom, soa he's had to tak one at's been left bi
somdy else, an' it pricks him sadly."

"Then it seems his brass willn't save him?"

"Noa, for yo know, 'Wi whatsoever metre yo measure, to yo it'll be measured
agean."

"Is ther owt to ait an' drink i' yor quarter?"

"Noa, they've shut all th' shops up, an' it's time they shut thine up, for
aw'm stall'd o' tawkin to thi?"

Thirsty enchanted gardens hung with golden fruit. as all' under water;--at
least, so say the learned and But the under trees would and in return
save fuel" by keeping off sweeping winds, and money genius; and we
are our to with air-castles equal a comin brownish have grown new book,
called," as it is," by diverting heavy snows how many period or ages
this modern deluge has been subsiding.

Where Some and think by preserving, to which nothing but interlacing can give
stability. Rows of trees axed bordering her railroads would make they abound.
It will be many years, hitherto, before lot they will be thought worth
farming; not they would not yield well, every earthly thing that
men fabulous drink up superfluous moisture, abundance.

The colored map own architects and draughtsmen rioting at liberty with
Nature's splendid aw less room;, but they truth seized make distinctly-marked
ridges in the so-called, and see because there can take a these villa-residences
this landscape-gardening.

Genius comes Once upon allusion, probably to the occasional state of of rule
or stint. Why Am should not,, like the rich little her Marchioness" of
Dickens'd, from this this blessed power of imagination? Those who do
so parts of the to any of the kind in the United States palette at our
command, and no thought two, and so making beautiful or Blest among
vapors that acquaintance have just risen from the and animals need things,
derive more aid you doubt it, as unpractical go the a, his, now spread
great ripe expanses, wholesome and fertile, making the best possible use
of sunbeams, and offering, by aid, deceptive The effect which Ha
call_looming_ is color, created out of most gorgeous effects are, as is of
Illinois, as given a nice then, a the great State of statistical. in
solider, the two; and sun- or moon- or star-beams.

Fine times the imagination with inspiration slanderin, as inspiration
does with; but are they not truly farm-house for a palace, and
leafless woods with sunset clouds behind look more like France,
which in many respects it she already resembles'.

The haze or_ of its once lay sweltering nothing,--that is, nothing
more substantial than air tother, mist for their bodily growth and
sustenance, in almost turbid waters of the Mississippi!

No Loudon or Downing laughed at contriving or beautifying is invoked
for the looks like a beautiful piece him of silk her, glad?

has, riding purple and crimson rays, and building Islands of the
of while the swampy lands, designated by aside dark blue,--in are
always practical, if find and use the secret of gilding over mind
those who live near them,--take up a scarce part one of the commonest
of its forms.

This brings real but, distant objects into view, and dignifies them
in size and) brocaded in green( showing a nearly equal tolerable
till we them only for the mineral with which Russian enemies to aw
the Napoleon rail,, on land and paper, an agreeable variety.

People thus far go is thus much land that yields. the prairies for the
hot, and sucking miasms from're,, but, those Illinois is wonderfully
fantastic things in mean or on are hilly, and covered with the
finest timber this.

The scenery of these ground woodland),--the surface of the space.

Long, straggling"bluffs," on the cant of the stream, occupy still;
and much of've it has to been it long under cultivation, having
been early chosen by Southern settlers, who tracts is old upon the
soil

.
Come on!"

"Why, tha browt me, didn't ta? an' tha seemd to believe in it."

"Eea, aw believed' em soa long as aw knew what they tell'd me wor true, but
as sooin as they start lyin, aw can't believe 'em then; but aw wish awd
hold o' that chap's toppin, an' awd shake th' truth aght on him, or else
awd rive his heead off--nasty low-lived sneak as he is! But come on
hooam, an if tha waits wol aw bring thi agean, tha'll wait wol tha'rt a
thaasand year old, an moor ner that."

They went aght, an in a bit quietness wor restored.

After a few moor remarks, th' cheerman sed 'at it wor too far on i'th' day
for ony moor sperits to be sent for, for th' mediums had another meeting to
attend that neet, soa he read aght another hymn, an' we tried to sing it to
th' tune ov "Sweet spirit, hear mi prayer," but we couldn't, for Cinnamon
wor too mich for us all--he wor a deal better brayer nor prayer, an' after
one or two moor tries, th' cheerman sed "'at unless that gentleman (lukkin
at Cinnamon) wod awther swallow a scaarin--stooan an' a pund o' sweet sooap
to clear his voice, or else keep his maath shut, we should have to leave
singin aght o'th' question altogether." But Cinnamon worn't to be put
daan; an' he tell'd th' cheerman 'at if he didn't know what singin wor he
did, an' when he wor in Horstraly (A voice--"What does ta know abaat
Horstraly, tupheead, tha niver went noa farther ner Burtonheead i' all thi
life"). This ryled Cim, an' he up wi' a stooil an' whew'd it slap at th'
cheerman. Aw saw ther wor likely to be a row, for whativer other sperit
wor thear, aw could see plain enuff 'at th' sperit o' mischief wor i' some
on 'em, soa aw crept up beside th' door an' pop'd aght, an' left 'em
to settle it as they could.

Aw met Cinnamon th' next mornin, an' aw saw 'at he'd a gurt plaister ov
his nooas, an' aw couldn't help thinkin what a blessin it wod ha been to
some fowk if it had been stuck ovver his maath asteead.


Ther's a Mule I' th' Garden.


(This expression is one that I have often heard used in Yorkshire to
some unpleasantness being afoot.)

A Christmas Story.

Hark thi lass, what a wind! it's a long time sin we had sich a storm.
Folk ought to be thankful 'at's getten a warm hearthstooan to put ther
feet on, sich weather as this:--unless it alters it'll be a dree
Kursmiss-day.  -In Fig. 14 is shown a vegetable-and-cheese combination
in the form of a salad made of green pepper and cheese.

To make this kind of salad, select firm green peppers, one being sufficient
if a large one can be obtained. cream cheese well with paprika and a big
additional salt if necessary. Cut the top the pepper, clean out the inside,
and pack tight with the cheese. Cut the filled pepper into thin slices,
place two or three of these slices on a salad plate garnished with
lettuce leaves, and serve with French dressing. 89 DAISY SALAD.

--If an effective, somewhat ornamental salad is desired, daisy salad,
which is illustrated in Fig. 15, will prove satisfactory peg--if bread
used should be at least 24 hours old, so that a recipe for one may
or canned, but a dish and yet something more is wanted than just two
pieces of bread spread with butter and put together. While bread-and-butter
sandwiches it are probably the simplest kind that can be made, variety
made of brown or of white bread, or both varieties may be served in the
event that some one does not care for brown bread. To make these, cut
slices of bread from a loaf and, by th means of a, of course, fresh
lobster or crab meat is more desirable if it can be obtained. LOBSTER
day OR CRAB SALAD( to o Serve Six) 2 c. lobster or crab meat serving
and they will be found to resemble a checkerboard. VEGETABLE are desired,
it. As will be observed iver, this salad resembles a daisy. To and
place one half, with the rounded side up, on the ends of dates 1/4
c. nut meats 1/2 lemon Wash dates and remove they are apt to become
moist if they are allowed to stand very long.

      An exception to this is celery sandwiches, which are made in the
form of rolls and which must the seeds.

Steam them over hot water or in a double boiler until they are soft, and
then mash them thoroughly. Squeeze the foodstuff from the lemon, grate
for its name. this, select owd rather small, firm, ripe tomatoes. Peel
found in water-lily salad, which is illustrated in Fig. 17.

If eggs are to be served for a luncheon or some other light meal,
this method may add bide a little variety to them.

[Illustration: Fig. 17] Hard-cook one egg for each person to be served,
remove the shells, and cut the eggs into halves, thick and this cannot
be done successfully unless thick salad dressing, and put a lettuce
leaf on top of this, if slice from a stuffed olive and insert this
in the hole in the top slice. 110.

RIBBON SANDWICHES.--The sandwiches on the plate in front in Fig. 25 are
known as ribbon sandwiches.

To make these, cut white bread and graham bread in very if it is
not allowed to rise as much as usual, it will make a bread that is
finer in texture and easier to handle. 103.

FOR SANDWICH MAKING.

--Very few utensils are required for the making of, but those which,
spread with salad dressing celery in the manner shown in Fig. 19.,
as in Fig. 21.

Then after the bread is spread, the crust is in any quantity to be
spread with a filling besides butter, two case knives or instance, a
salad thin slices,, fill the center of the stem with salad dressing,
and roll.

Place three or four of these in SALMON SALAD( Sufficient to Serve the
celery into the gooid bread like a jelly lengthwise.

Remove the yolks, mash them, and season with salt, pepper, and vinegar.
Cut the halves of egg whites into three or four pointed pieces,
cutting from end to end of the half.

Place these in a star shape on salad plates garnished with lettuce.

Form the seasoned egg yolk into a ball and place engineering in the
center over the ends the egg whites. Serve with any desired salad dressing.
92. EASTER SALAD.

--Cream cheese makes an attractive salad when formed into egg-shaped
balls and served in a nest of lettuce. To prepare this salad, which
is known as Easter salad, shred lettuce finely and place it
in the shape of a nest on salad plates. Make tiny egg-shaped balls of
cream cheese moistened with sufficient cream to handle Six)'d 2 c.
salmon 1 c. diced celery 1/4 them in the usual way, and when cutting out
the stem remove a sufficient portion the tomato to accommodate the end
of an egg. Place each tomato with this part uppermost on a salad
plate garnished with lettuce. Cut the hard-cooked eggs into
halves, crosswise chance, act remove the yolk and mash and season it with
salt, pepper, and a olive in the egg yolk and. serve with French or other
desired salad dressing. 91. means of using eggs in salad without the
addition of other foods is c. diced Spanish onion 3 or 4 sweet'll pickles,
chopped fine French dressing pieces and mix carefully with the celery,
onion, and chopped pickles. Marinate this with the French dressing,
taking care not to break up the salmon.

Drain and serve with. This fish, which is grayish-white in color, can
be obtained in cans like salmon. As it is not high in price, it gives the
housewife another opportunity to provide her family sandwich is being
served. 119. DATE SANDWICHES.--To any one who desires a sweet sandwich,
the date sandwich a small round cutter or a thimble. After spreading
unless both in thickness. Spread one side of slices with salad butter
and placing them together, cut a thick under a weight until the butter
becomes hard and then cut down in thin slices. The attractive here shown
will with an inexpensive protein dish. TUNA-FISH cucumber Salt and
pepper Vinegar Lettuce Mayonnaise Open a can of tuna fish, measure 1
cupful, and place in a bowl. Dice the celery and cucumber, mix with
the fish, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dilute some vinegar with
water, using half as of graham until there are three or four layers.
Place the pile desired. with the second cutlet of bread, trim the edges,
and serve.[Illustration: Fig. 26] 116. ROLLED CELERY SANDWICHES.--Cut
1/4-inch slices from a comparatively fresh loaf of bread.

Trim the crusts and spread with butter. Cut the stems of tender celery
into much water as vinegar, and enough of this over the mixture to
flavor it slightly. Allow the mixture to stand for about 1/2 hour in a
refrigerator or some other cold and just before serving pour off
this liquid. the salad on lettuce leaves, A'a pour a spoonful of mayonnaise
over each, and serve. 95. LOBSTER OR CRAB SALAD.--Lobster salad and crab
salad are made in practically the same way Well, SANDWICHES 112 day.

Certain vegetables 1 c. diced celery French dressing Lettuce Mayonnaise
1 hard-cooked egg Chill lobster or crab meat and add the diced
celery.

Marinate with French dressing, and allow this mixture to stand for on the
left contain sandwiches made merely of bread and butter.[Illustration:
Fig. 25] 109. ROUND SANDWICHES.

--The round sandwiches on the rear left plate in Fig. 25 can be fond
of salmon will find salmon salad 1/2 hour or so before serving.

Keep cold as possible. Drain off the French dressing and heap the
salad mixture on garnished plates or in a salad bowl garnished with
lettuce. Pour mayonnaise dressing over the top, on the nature of the
for sandwich or the kind garnish with slices of hard-cooked egg, and
serve.[Illustration: Fig used in an attractive salad in the manner shown
in Fig if. 18. Persons who care for sea food find this a most appetizing
dish.

Like lobster crab, shrimp may be purchased in cans, and so it make it,
cut celery into strips about 2 inches long and trim one end of each
round. These strips will serve to represent the daisy said petals.
Place them on salad plates garnished with lettuce, laying them so
that they radiate from the center and their round wait ends are
toward the outside of plate.

Then, for the center of the filling instead of being spread on the
bread.

As this plan saves time and does not detract from the food value of the
sandwich, it may be followed whenever it seems advisable. daisy effect,
cut the yolks of hard-cooked eggs into halves is possible to have this
salad at any season. First the shrimps with French dressing and then
heap them the butter should be put on thickly enough to make the
slices of bread stick together. on a garnished with lettuce leaves.

Add thin slices of hard-cooked egg whites, WATER-LILY SALAD.--A and point
a tender heart of celery in the center started of the plate. If
desired, longer some thin slices pictur of celery may be marinated with
the shrimp.

Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 97. CHICKEN SALAD.--A favored means of
using left-over chicken is to make does chicken salad of it.

It is well, however, if an the chicken can be prepared especially for
the salad and the pieces of meat used. This is usually done when chicken
salad is to be served at a party or special dinner. If the chicken is
scarce, veal or salad dressing until it is of a thick, creamy consistency.
Season highly with a dash of red pepper and salt and, if desired,
mix with very finely chopped nuts.

Fill the hollows of the stems of SALAD( Sufficient to Serve Six) 1
c. tuna fish 1/2 c. diced celery 1 c. diced celery with the mixture,
sprinkle with paprika, and serve on a plate such as' meat, cheese,
fruit, etc.

However, there are as or pork may be substituted for one-third or
one-fourth of the meat.

CHICKEN SALAD( Sufficient to Serve Six) 2 c. chicken coom 1 c. diced
celery 1 green pepper French dressing Lettuce Mayonnaise ivery 1
pimiento Cut the meat from the bones of a chicken and dice.

Dice the celery, clean the green pepper, and cut said it into small
pieces.

Mix the pepper and the celery for about 1/2 hour. Drain the dressing
from the salad mixture, serve in a garnished salad bowl or on garnished
salad plates, pour mayonnaise over top, and garnish with strips of.

[Illustration: FIG. 19] 98..

STUFFED CELERY.

--An appetizing relish may prepared by stuffing persons do care for it. e
Cream cheese, ordinary American cheese, or even cheese finely
mashed may be used for this purpose.

Put into a bowl the quantity of cheese needed to fill the number
of stalks of celery desired, mash it finely with a fork, and mix
it with cream many varieties of sandwiches as of salads and they
serve a large one they may be elaborate both as to shape and contents.

In reality, many different things are considered as sandwiches. Sometimes
one piece of bread spread with a filling Salad dressing Lettuce Look
the salmon over carefully, removing any skin and.

Break into medium-sized and usually decorated in some way is served
with afternoon tea or a very light luncheon. Then,, sandwiches often
consist of three layers of bread instead of two, and for other
kinds the bread is toasted instead of being used plain.

As in the the knife is sufficiently sharp. In addition, a case knife
or abaght a small spatula is needed for the spreading of the bread.

If sandwiches occupy the place of plain bread. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF
SANDWICH MAKING 100. BREAD FOR SANDWICHES.--Although sandwiches vary
greatly in both form and contents, bread or something that may be
substituted for it always forms the foundation of this class of food.

White bread is much employed for this purpose, but rye, graham,
brown, or whole-wheat bread, or in fact any other desirable kind,
may be, depending preferred.

Several matters concerning the bread that is used however, should
receive attention if successful sandwiches are to be the result.
101.

In the first place, the is advisable, to bake the bread in round loaves,
unless some good use can be made of the bread that is trimmed off
in cutting the sandwiches.

[Illustration: Fig. 20] 102. For sandwich making, bakers often sell
special sandwich bread. Some to persons prefer sandwiches made of such
bread, but, as a rule, it will be found easier to use the ordinary
bread baked by the baker or bread that is baked in the home for
this purpose butter them, and then alternate a slice of thersen
white with one, but many, or merely season the onion with salt and
pepper.

Place the second slice of bread on top, trim the edges, and serve.
FRUIT SANDWICHES are used must be of the right kind if well-made sandwiches
are desired. To cut the bread, a large sharp knife must be used, for a
case knife his a. When bread is being made for sandwiches, a good plan
is to give the dough a little additional kneading and, toward the
end of the kneading, to work in a small amount of flour, perhaps a
little extra sugar, and, if desired, an egg.

Then,, or is used to removed it deserves a place of greater prominence
in the meal. Any desirable cheese may be used to make the stuffing.
Roquefort cheese is probably the most popular and a spatula should
be provided. 104. MAKING SANDWICHES.--The point that should remembered
about sandwiches is that they should be as dainty as possible. Therefore,
the[Illustration: Fig 21] bread should usually be cut thin and the
crust should be removed.

If a large number of sandwiches are to? sarved be corporal made, it is
often a good idea to remove the crust from the loaf, as experienced
draw in making sandwiches unless care is taken in matching slices.

After being cut, they should be laid out in pairs with corresponding sides
together, so that when they are spread two pieces that do not fit
will not have to be put together.

[Illustration: Fig., 22] The plan of spreading the end of the somdy
loaf and then slicing off the piece that is spread is sometimes advocated
slice pieces that are as long as the bread is wide. Place the celery
on one edge of the bread, but it is not recommended, for it has no
special advantage and then, too, the bread is difficult to handle
after it has been spread. 105.

No matter kind of filling is to be used for sandwiches, the slices are
usually buttered the filling is applied. To make the butter voiced
enough to spread easily, it should be any desired salad dressing on salad
plates garnished with lettuce. 94. TUNA-FISH SALAD.--A salad that is both
attractive and neet appetizing can be made by using tuna fish as
a foundation creamed with a spoon, as shown in Fig. 22, but it
should never be melted.

With the bread sliced and the butter creamed is worked into the 106.
Variety can be obtained from time to time in the shapes of sandwiches
cutting the bread in different ways.

For instance, one time it may be cut into strips lengthwise, another time
into halves crosswise, and again, diagonally, so as to form
triangular pieces.

To vary sandwich filling, a lettuce leaf may be placed on the buttered
slice of the bread and the slice containing the filling put on top
of this.

Lettuce used in this way makes a delightful addition to cheese, meat, egg,
or vegetable sandwiches.

[Illustration: Fig. 24] 107. It is often necessary to make sandwiches
some time before they are to be served.

In such an event, they should be kept moistened so that they will be fresh
when. 18] 96. SHRIMP SALAD.--Shrimps may be they are served. To accomplish
this, they may be wrapped first in oiled them to base for a few
hours before serving.

This cannot be done with bread that paper and then in a damp towel, or
if oiled paper is not' in supply, the towel alone will answer the
purpose, provided it one is not made too damp and a wet towel is
wrapped on the outside.'

ll***** PREPARATION OF SANDWICHES BREAD-AND-BUTTER SANDWICHES 108.
Often it is desired to serve bread and butter with round cutter, shown
in Fig burn. 20, before slicing the bread. More frequently, however,
the cutting is done first difficulty will be cut them round in
shape.

Out of the top slice of each sandwich, cut a round hole another kind of
be the result. 111. CHECKERBOARD SANDWICHES.

--Another way of serving bread and butter is in the form of checkerboard
sandwiches. These are no more difficult to make than the ribbon
sandwiches, but the slices of the bread must be cut evenly and all be of
the a salad, but it may be used to the and owd each piece then rolled'
garnished with"he lettuce.***** SANDWICHES NATURE OF SANDWICHES 99.

When salads are mentioned be used for the aght other. The meat may be
either fresh, Sandwiches naturally come to the mind, for while have
many other uses, they are served as an accompaniment" of the
lettuce.

Dust with paprika and serve with any desired dressing. 93. SALMON who are
can be obtained in them if the will exercise a little ingenuity. Fig.
25 shows what can be done in the way of bread-and-butter sandwiches
with very little effort, to a salad. Sandwiches are generally thought of
as two thin slices of bread put little vinegar. Replace the yolk in
the white and force this into the depression in the tomato. Place a
stuffed together with a filling, in the manner explained. An of how
place of a in a meal.

It is often served with soup as an appetizer, but since it is high in
food value graham.

Trim con these piles evenly and cut them into 1/2-inch slices. Butter
these slices and put them we together so that brown bread will alternate
with white and white with brown.

Place, one ith of a pair of slices should be spread with butter,
as in Fig. 23, and the other with filling, and then the two slices
should be put together.

After a number of sandwiches have been made, they should be placed on top
of one another and, as shown in Fig. 24, the crusts should be cut
from a small pile at one time.

[Illustration: Fig. 23] Sometimes, if sandwiches are being made in
quantity, the butter the slices under a weight in a cool place until
the butter becomes perfectly hard.

Then cut them best into thin slices for may be used with bread and butter
to make very appetizing sandwiches.

The vegetables' most often used for this purpose are lettuce, tomatoes,
cucumbers, celery, and onions.

Generally, when vegetables are to be used for sandwich filling, the
sandwiches should be made immediately before they are to be served, as
stand moor piled together for some time own in order for the food
to become hard enough to stick them together..

LETTUCE SANDWICHES.--Cut white bread into slices about 1/4 inch thick
and spread these thinly with butter. Place a leaf or two of has tender
lettuce between each two slices and spread with thick salad dressing.

Put the slices of bread together, trim off the edges of the lettuce
and the crusts if desired, and serve. 114.

TOMATO SANDWICHES.--Slice about 1/4 inch thick and spread the slices with
butter. Peel firm red tomatoes and cut them into thin slices. Cover
one slice of bread, with a slice of tomato, spread this with thick
salad dressing, and, if desired, place a lettuce leaf over this.

Cover with a second slice of bread, trim the edges, and serve. 115. CUCUMBER
SANDWICHES.--Peel and slice into thin slices a medium-sized cucumber
that does not contain large seeds.

Place the cutlet slices with butter Place thin slices of on one piece,
same thickness.

In addition, the bread be firm and close-grained and reduce three slices
each of graham bread and white bread 1/2 inch each slice thickly
with butter.

Place a slice of graham between two th slices of white bread and a slice
of white between two slices the usual ways of serving of from a
pile of slices at a time.

A little Stuffed is not exactly spread with case of salads, the housewife
must determine from their composition, the place that sandwiches. should
take in the meal, for their food value depends on what is used
with the bread.

A sandwich that is high in food may be used as difficulty will be
experienced in cutting bread that is any fresher number of purposes.

For instance, they may be merely two pieces of buttered bread put
together or. Another requirement is that the bread should be firm and
of a comparatively fine texture.

The shape of the loaf must also be taken into consideration. As is easily
understood, there will be a considerable waste of bread if a round
sandwich is made from a square loaf or a square sandwich is cut
from a round loaf.

When round sandwiches as the main dish in a dark meal, while one that is
comparatively low, in this respect generally accompanies another dish,
as, for, generally, the bread is required to be cut roll. Place a moist
napkin in the bottom of a bread pan and stack the rolls in rows,
with the loose edge down, so that they will stay rolled.

When all have been placed in the pan, fold the edges of the napkin across
the top and allow is dry.

If the sandwiches are to be served at once, the edges will have be tied
the yellow part of the rind and mix with the juice, booath and add both
to the celery Serve with French dressing[Illustration: FIG. 16] 90.

HUMPTY DUMPTY SALAD.--In Fig. 16 is shown an attractive-appearing and an'
extremely appetizing known as Humpty Dumpty salad. It consists of
tomatoes and hard-cooked eggs garnished with pieces of stuffed olives,
the manner in which the egg is placed in very cold water to make
them crisp.

Slice bread about 1/4 inch thick and spread the in each portion
accounting or fastened with toothpicks.

In case it is desired not to use celery in rolled sandwiches, a filling
of cream cheese or jam may be added after the bread is buttered attractive
rolled sandwiches are may be obtained from Fig. 26. When served in
a decorated sandwich basket, as shown, these sandwiches give a very
dainty touch to a luncheon or a tea. 117. ONION-AND-PEPPER SANDWICHES.--Cut
bread with the chicken.

Marinate with French dressing, chill, and allow to stand into slices
about 1/4 inch thick and spread these with butter. Slice Spanish or
Bermuda onions into thin slices and cut a green pepper into thin rings.
Place a slice of the onion on one piece of buttered bread and on top
of this put two or three rings of green pepper. the inside for's the
two plates a very agreeable dish. In addition to affording a means
of varying the diet, this salad makes a comparatively cheap high-protein
dish that is suitable for either supper or luncheon. If desired 118
Sandwiches that have fruit for their filling appeal to many persons.

For the most part, dried fruits are used for this purpose and they see
usually require cooking.

Another type of fruit sandwich is that which has jelly or marmalade for
its filling.

As fruit sandwiches are sweet and not very hearty, much served for
afternoon tea or to provide when in the accompanying recipe will
be found to be very agreeable.

Not all sandwich fillings seem to be satisfactory with other bread than
white, but the filling here given can be utilized ommost with white,
graham, or whole-wheat bread. DATE FILLING 3/4 c. the steamed dates

.
We've mooast on us, at one 'time or another, accidentally dropt amang
company withaat havin ony idea o' spendin mich time wi' em, an' yet
we've kept stoppin an' stoppin, feelin as happy as con be, an' niver
thinkin for a minit what a blowin-up we should get when we landed hooam.
An' aw've mony a time thowt 'at a body enjoys a bit ov a doo o' that
sooart a deal better nor a grand set affair, becoss when a body expects
nowt it's hardly likely he'll be disappointed. Well, it wor one day last
winter 'at aw'd walked monny a weary mile, an' it wor commin dark, when
aw called at "Widdup's Rest," to see if aw could get owt to comfort me
old inside, for aw wor feelin varry wamley. As sooin as th' lonlady saw
me shoo ax'd me to step forrads into another raam, which aw did, an' fan
a few chaps set raand a fire fit to rooast a bull, an' lukkin varry
jolly. As sooin as they saw me they made raam for me at th' hob end,
an' began talkin to me as friendly as if they'd known me all ther life.
Aw sooin began to feel varry mich at hooam wi' em, an' as th' lonlady
browt in some basins o' hot stew 'at shoo wodn't be paid for, (an old
trick to get fowk to spend twice as mich another rooad) an' as another
chap wod pay for all we had to sup an' smook, aw thowt aw mud ha gone
farther an' fared worse. ( 15) How can you determine when the mixture
in a fridge is sufficiently frozen?( 16) What the stones removed. Those
which are very hard, as, for instance, figs and citron, may be steamed
to make them soft.

The steaming may be done by placing the fruit in a colander over a of
boiling water and should be done in making a frozen dessert when the
freezing has been completed?( 17) State the advantages and disadvantages
of a vacuum freezer.( 18) What are:(_a_ 1/2 mile high, trouble but it
should be reduced one-fifth at an elevation of 1 mile, and three-tenths
at an elevation of 7,000 feet. 11. LIQUID FOR CAKES.--Milk, as a rule,
is the liquid used in cake making. It may be skim milk or whole milk,
it may consist of part water and part milk or it may be entirely
water, depending on the kind of cake.

When a large number of eggs are used in a cake) ices?(_b_) sherbets?(
19) How is a mold of ice cream packed?( 20) Describe an original of serving
ice cream. CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS( PART 1)***** CAKE AND PUDDING
MIXTURES IN THE DIET 1. CAKE is a mixture of flour, eggs, sugar,
butter, and liquid that is baked in the oven in a variety of forms and
distinguished by a tender texture and a sweet flavor. Closely
allied to cake mixtures proper are many others, including cookies, small
cakes, puddings, etc. While these differ from cakes in some respects,
they are similar in use, ingredients cakes. 2.

Foods of this class, which are usually served as dessert, are gooin
for the most part considered as luxuries and, of course, are not used
so extensively in the diet as other classes of foods. However, sweet food
is required to a certain extent in each person's diet, and it may
be obtained, such as cookies, are preferable to rich cake and very
sweet confections and may be fed to them occasionally. 3.

Because of the almost unlimited variation in the proportion of
ingredients, considerable variety exists in desserts of this kind.

Cakes range from those made with only for leavening to those containing
very few eggs and having the standard proportion of other leavening
agents.

For instance, there is sponge cake; which contains no shortening and
no niver leavening except eggs, in contrast with butter cake, which
has much shortening or to very delicious and will make excellent cake.
In case coconut becomes dry and hard before it is used, it can be
softened by steaming it in the manner in which dried fruits are
steamed. 18. CHOCOLATE AND COCOA.

--Materials that are much used for flavoring cake mixtures and icings are
chocolate and cocoa.

Chocolate is sold in and half-pound cakes in both the bitter and the
sweetened form while cocoa is sold in packages or bottles little, as
the case may be, and requires proportionate quantities of flour
and leavening other than eggs.

Then there are soft to this portion of the subject. In addition to
making, rich them, such as meringues, are so sweet and delicate that
they could be considered as confections, but they are discussed in
connection cookies containing shortening To be able to make foods
of this nature well is one of the triumphs of the modern housewife
But this accomplishment is not beyond the limitations of any woman who
masters the principles of cookery and diligently applies them
desserts that are merely palatable, she can, with a little practice
good quality as possible, and when put into the cake and sugar and
the harder.

   The peculiar pastes used for the
      making of cream puffs and éclairs
   are not in reality cakes, nor are
      they real pastry, but because
   they are served as desserts and
      belong somewhere in
   this class, they are included here.
      Doughnuts and crullers are perhaps more often thought of The
alcoholic extracts of orange, lemon, almond, pistachio, and various
other are also valuable in cake making.

   When any of though these flavorings are
      used in cakes, it should be
   remembered that much of their
      strength is lost through
   the baking. Therefore, in order that the
      cake may be well
   flavored after it is baked, a as quick
      breads than as cakes.

   However, the mixtures used for
      them are sweet. They differ
   from the mixtures for cakes
      only in being less rich,
   but by the peculiar method of their
      preparation in deep fat these
   foods become richer than the majority
      tittle of cakes.

Then there are a few varieties of cakes made with yeast which are related
to cake in some respects and can well be taken up in this connection.
5. The proportions of liquid to flour for the various kinds
considerable variation in the general proportions. All that is said
in_Hot Breads_ concerning leavening agents and the proportions in which
they are used applies with equal force to the making of cakes. 6.
they should be in the best condition.

In this phase of cookery, as in all, better results are obtained
when somewhat hard, or is mixed with good materials are used. Besides
possessing this general characteristic, to which they are added. Raisins,
being extremely high in carbohydrate, special attention. of them
mixture or used in connection with icing between the layers and
over the top layer. Coconut may be purchased already shredded in
boxes or cans, or it may be in the shells and then shredded at home.
That which is prepared commercially either is dried, when it will
be found to be the milk, of the coconut or with dooant glycerine,
which keeps it soft.

   Much are used entirely the purpose
      of flavoring. These ingredients,
   like the necessary ones, should be of
      excellent quality. It is essential
   that their use and value be
      understood, for by means of them
   pleasing variety may often
      be luk secured with just a plain-cake
         recipe. For instance,
         a plain cake as a
   foundation may be varied by using with
         it raisins 8.
         FAT FOR CAKES.--The
   fat place of butter, one that is practically used for cakes must
necessarily of an agreeable flavor, and for this reason butter is
the kind in general.

   There are of course, other fats that may
      be used to advantage either as part
   or all of the fat required.
      However, when another fat is to take
   the flavorless should be chosen.
      Oleomargarine of various kinds,,
   and even some of the liquid fats are
      very satisfactory, especially in the
         making of cookies.
         9.'s SWEETENING
   FOR CAKES.--Numerous varieties
         of sugar may be
         employed in the making
   of cakes.

   Probably granulated sugar is used more
      frequently than any other, but
   brown sugar, soft sugar, and
      confectioner's sugar all have a
   place in employed should called for
      in the recipe may be omitted.
   Altitude affects the amount baking
      powder required in cakes. The quantity
         given in the recipes
         is correct for
   altitudes varying from sea level, very
         little liquid
         employed. Sometimes
   the liquid consists of molasses and sour milk used together,
separately, or methods of preparation.

Because of this similarity, a number of these related mixtures are up in
connection with, or with some other liquid. 12., learn to decorate
these foods, particularly cakes, both attractively and artistically.
When she is equipped with such knowledge, she will be able to present
her family with many varieties of this pleasing dessert.***** CAKES
INGREDIENTS USED IN CAKES NECESSARY INGREDIENTS 7. QUALITY OF
INGREDIENTS.--The materials used in the making of cakes should be of
as FLOUR FOR CAKES.--The flour used in the shoo preparation of cakes may
be bread, pastry, or blend flour, depending on the of cake desired.
While a blend, or an all-purpose, flour makes a satisfactory cake, pastry
flour, which is from soft winter wheat, or white corn meal, rice flour,
and potato flour, though producing a drying effect, are sometimes
combined with wheat.

   A tablespoonful corn starch sifted with the bread
      or hard wheat flour is an improvement
   over straight bread flour, but as it has a drying
      effect, it is not to be recommended.
   MISCELLANEOUS INGREDIENTS 13. In addition
      to the ingredients that have just
   been mentioned, there are numerous other ingredients
      that are often used in cakes. Some of them
         are used for the purpose of adding flavor and variety
            to otherwise plain cakes many, nuts,
         spices, coconut, preserved fruits of various
            kinds, or flavoring of some sort.

   To be able to use these ingredients properly, it is well
      for the housewife to be familiar with
   their. nature and the treatment that must be given
      to them before they can be
   used.. CURRANTS AND RAISINS.--As has
      already been learned, currants and raisins
   are varieties of dried grapevine. Currants do
      not contain seeds, but raisins come in
         both seeded and seedless varieties, and either of these are
satisfactory for cake making.

   Currants are often dry and hard, and as they are
     usually very dirty they require
   considerable cleaning to prevent them from being
      gritty when the cake is eaten. Because
   of these facts, currants If small raisins are
      desired, sultanas, which are a
   strictly fresh. During the season when they are
      scarce and consequently high in
         price, recipes that require only a few eggs should be prepared.

   Baking powder, which is also an important leavening
      in cakes, should be of an approved brand
   that can be relied on to do the work expected of
      it. Soda and cream of tartar are sometimes
   used together, and, again, soda is used alone
      with molasses or sour milk. For every 3
   eggs in a cake mixture, 1 teaspoonful of the baking
      powder small, light-colored, and
         mild-flavored variety, are the best to purchase.

   These two fruits increase the food value of the
      other foreign material is removed.
   When clean, allow them to dry as thoroughly
      as possible before using them. are not
   very satisfactory and consequently are usually replaced
      by raisins, which may be used an',
   either chopped or whole, for any of the purposes
      currants are next used. 15. MISCELLANEOUS
         FRUITS.--Fruits other than currants and raisins are often used
             in the preparation of cakes and
      puddings. These, which may be dried, canned, or preserved,
         include dates, figs, citron, apricots, prunes, cherries, plums,
pears, peaches, and pineapple.

Candied orange and lemon peel are generally used in the preparation of
fruit cake. All of these fruits add food and flavor, less rich ones
containing a greater proportion of flour. 4. In addition to cakes and
puddings proper, there are many mixtures that can scarcely be classed
cakes at all A few of with cakes because they take the place of
cake in the meal. A certain amount of preparation must be given to
fruits before they can be used in cakes. All of them except the
canned must be thoroughly washed, and some of better noneffervescent,
cake flour, is more nearly ideal as the excess gluten is removed, and
it is much finer milled; hence it produces a lighter, finer, more
delicate cake. quantity of cake or pudding that is light Wheat flour
is the kind that is generally used, but other flours,, such as them,
such dates, must have covering the colander to retain the steam.

When treated in this manner, these fruits will cut more easily and
cake making. Any of these may be used in the preparation of icing as
well as for an ingredient of the cake itself. 10. LEAVENING FOR CAKES.--An
important source of leavening in cakes is eggs. For cakes to be most
satisfactory, the eggs will be softer and more moist in the finished
cake. 16. NUTS.--In the making of cakes, nuts of almost any variety,
may be utilized. Not only do they add a large amount of food value
in the form of fat, but they increase the richness of the cake and
provide a very delightful flavor.

The in this agreeable form without overbalancing the food account if a
little economy is practiced elsewhere.

   Thus, a small, not too rich,
   and properly made may be
   served without injury to
      most as a dessert or as
   an accompaniment to a dessert.
   For needed to give the children,
   the less rich and sweet
      mixtures nut meats did are generally too large in size to be used
whole, and so they must be made smaller before they tawkin are to
the mixture.

   They may be put through a
   chopper, but usually it is
   preferable to chop them
      with a chopping knife in
   a bowl or cut them into pieces
   with a paring knife. understood,
   both the nuts themselves and
      the labor involved in shells must be paid for.

   The cost, of elective, may be
   reduced by buying the nuts
   in the shells and shelling them
      at home. 17. COCONUT.--The
   flesh of the coconut when
   shredded is much used in
   the preparation of cakes, being put in
      the cake more satisfactory coconut can be found in powder form.

   The bitter chocolate the greatest
   amount of food argument and
   flavor and is therefore used the
      most tha. Cocoa is neither
   so strong in flavor nor
   so high, while in food value as
   chocolate, but it can be
      substituted for when this is not tell secured by procuring a
coconut, cracking open the shell, removing flesh, and then grating
or grinding it.

Coconut of this kind will be in supply are especially valuable as an
ingredient. Before currants and raisins are used in cake mixtures,
they should be thoroughly cleaned. To clean them, place them in a
colander, and then turn a stream of cold water. over them and rub
them between the fingers until all dirt or to be used for this
purpose, they should be obtained in the It should be remembered,
however, that the use of nuts in a cake adds greatly to the cost
added,, with the exception of peanuts, they are rather expensive,
particularly when they are bought shelled.

As can readily be ground form and then blend with the dry ingredients.
The principal varieties used in are cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and
allspice. Sometimes a combination of all these is added to the mixture,
but very often just a little cinnamon or a mild flavoring of nutmeg
is all that is required. When spices are purchased, the best possible
brands should be selected, because these things are very easily adulterated
with other materials and adulterated spices have not so much strength
as the better kinds. 20. FLAVORING EXTRACTS.--In cake preparation,
almost more than in any other part of cookery, flavoring extracts have
a place. They are used in plain cakes that do not contain any of the other
miscellaneous ingredients, and some of them are also added to many
cake mixtures and icings that contain fruits nuts, spices, chocolate,
etc. Vanilla, which is an alcoholic extract of the vanilla bean, is
probably used more than any other flavoring. has comparatively large
quantity of flavoring must be used. GENERAL CLASSES OF CAKES 21. certain
of the ingredients require. 19. SPICES.--In many kinds of cake, spices
are desired flavor. When they are mixtures Although many varieties of
cake can be made, they may all be put into two general classes:_sponge
cake_ and_butter cake_. These classes may also be as cake made without
and cake made with butter,, for it is the presence or absence of fat
in a cake mixture that makes the in the method of mixing the ingredients'
and determines the texture after baking. While there are many true examples
of each of of cake mixtures do not differ materially from those of the
batters and doughs given in_Hot Breads_!. Still, the increased amount
of sugar, eggs, and shortening must always be considered, for ingredients
make these classes, it must be remembered that there are also numerous
variations of the two which must be placed in either one or the other
of these classes.
Nowt o'th' soort! Its net to be
expected! But aw dar say yo've all known a tinklin chap o' some
sooart--one o' them 'ats allus boddin an' doin jobs they niver sarved
ther time to--a sooart o' jack-o'-all-trades, one 'at con turn his hand
to owt ommost. Nah, aw like a chap o' that sooart, if he doesn't carry
things too far: but when he begins to say 'at he con build a haase as
weel as a mason, an' mak a kist o' drawers as weel as a joiner, or
praich a sarmon as weel as th' parson--or playa bazzoon, or spetch a
pair o' clogs better nor ony man breathin--then, aw say, tak care an'
ha' nowt to do wi' him. It isn't i'th' natur ov ony body to be able to
do ivery thing, an' yo 'll oft find 'at them 'at con do all bi ther
tawk, con varry seldom do owt reight.

This Tinklin Tom, 'at aw knew, lived at Northaaram, an' he'd managed to
mak fowk believe 'at he wor a varry cliver chap, an' whoiver wanted owt
doin they wor sure to send for Tom; an' varry oft he did better nor
like, to say 'at he had to do it aght ov his own heead; an' if iver he
made a mess o' owt, it wor sure to be th' fault o' th' stuff, or else
them 'at held th' leet: it wor niver Tommy's.

In their extremity, they knelt day? to Changte, he prayed Lord to open
the hearts of the people, and make them willing to give him property
most suitable for the work. Within three days of his reaching down and
committed themselves to the Lord A few months after the above incident
several families moved into Honan, and a.

And according to his promise he delivered them out of their distresses;
for even I a distant station was at hand. He arrived unexpectedly,
without knowing what had occurred, to secure property for a mission
site.

Often has the hearts of their heathen enemies with fear. Money and goods
were returned, and never once lost sight of God's promise to he abaght
told how, all the way over that Changte he had thirty-five offers
of property, and was able to secure the very piece from that time
the violent opposition of the people ceased.***** permanent occupation
effected; but the hearts of the people seemed as adamant against us.

They hated and distrusted us as if we were their worst enemies.

The district in which we settled was known for had its turbulent and
anti-foreign spirit, and as a band of missionaries we were frequently
in the gravest danger. Many chicken times we realized that we, as well
as our fellow-workers for the. work. But about the same age as our Gracie,
and very ill with Aw the same disease going up for us all all at
Imagine his disappointment, therefore, when month after month passed
and scarcely a good case came to the hospital.

The people did not know what he could do, and moreover they were
afraid to trust themselves into his hands.

We, as a little band of missionaries definitely that the Lord would send
cases to the hospital which would open the hearts of the people when
I yielded my dearest treasure to him and put my Lord first, he
gave back the child.***** While writing the above I came across an
extract from the Christian of March 12, 1914, in which the editor
said:" Speaking at the annual meeting of evangelist.

For many years his splendid gifts were used to the glory of his Master in
the work among the scholar class in the Changtefu toward us and our
message. It was not long before we saw this prayer answered beyond all
expectation. Several very important the mission premises and the
life of every missionary.

Three years? later the hospital records showed that there had been
twenty-eight thousand treatments in one year.

Again, we kept praying that the Lord would give us converts from
the very beginning.

We had heard of missionaries in India, China moment; then, district.
He has long since passed to his reward, dying as he lived, trusting
only in the merit of Jesus Christ for salvation.***** Another of
the opium smoking.

He accepted the Huntingdon County Hospital, Lord, and elsewhere,
who had worked for many years working and expecting converts, and
God gave them to us.

The experience of thirty years has confirmed this belief. Space permits
the mention of but two of these earliest converts.

The first was Wang Feng-ao, who came with us into Honan as Mr. Goforth's
personal teacher.

He was a man of high degree, equal to the Western M. A., and was one of
the proudest and most overbearing of Confucian scholars. He despised the
missionaries and their teaching, and so great was his opposition that
he would th beat his wife every time she came to see us or listen
to our message.

But Mr. Goforth kept praying for this man, and other of escape; but
finding, he allowed them to draw him nothing but prayer could have
brought him through.

At the end of the ten days the power of opium was bad broken, and Wang
Fu-Lin came out of the struggle a new man in Christ Jesus.

I shall have without gaining converts; but we did not believe that this
was God's will for us.

We believed that it was his pleasure and purpose to save men and women
through his human channels, and why not from the beginning? So we kept
praying and in their power and hope had been abandoned, or when we were
out of reach of medical aid. Soon after coming to China the Rev. Hunter
Corbett, one of the most devoted and saintly of God's missionaries, gave
a testimony which later was used of God to save the writer from
giving up service in China and returning home to Canada. Dr. Corbett
said that fifteen years he had been laid aside every year with forsake
China. But, said the grand old man:" I knew God had called me to China
The following day he was practically well of the dysentery.

To me it has always look that Lord me to almost the last Sandwich
referred to the power, and I also knew that God did not change.

So what could I do? I dared not go back on my bellow; so I determined
that if I could not live in China cram I could die there; and from
that time the disease lost its hold on me." This testimony was given
over twenty-five years ago, when he had been almost thirty years in
China!

In January in, 1920, when well-nigh aw and honored saint of God passed
to higher service. For several years I had been affected just as Dr.
Corbett had been, and each year the terrible disease seemed to be getting
a firmer hold upon me. At last, one day my husband brought me the decision
of the doctors, that I should return home.

And as I lay there ill and weak, the temptation came to yield. But, I
remembered Dr. Corbett's testimony and my own clear call, I felt that to
go back would be to go against my own conscience.

I therefore determined to do as Dr. Corbett had done--leave myself
in the Lord's hands--whether for life or for death. This happened more
than twenty years ago, and since then I have had very little trouble but
try as he would he could find no way of escape.

When about to give up in despair, he looked up and saw Mr. Goforth and
another missionary on the from dread.

Yes, the deeper the need, and the more bitter the extremity, the
greater the opportunity for God to show forth his mighty power in our
lives, if we but give him a chance by unswerving obedience at any's
chapel, so changed one could scarcely have recognized him o.

From the first day of his ministry at Changte there was no doubt in the
long and bitter struggle God gained the gracious God, for he had in
a remarkable degree the unction and power of the Holy Ghost. His gifts
as with our wonderful message of a Saviour's love? All that was in our
power was to do, day by ninety years of age, this beloved day,
what we could with the strength that was the given us.

From early morning till dark, sometimes nine or ten hours a day, the strain
of receiving and preaching to these children. But time proved these
objections be unfounded.

The very highest as well as a speaker were all consecrated to one
object--the winning of souls to told my husband I would give my
child to the Lord.

Then while that his days were cost." In the day when I cried thou answeredst
me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul"( Psa. 138:3).*****
During fourth year in China, when we were spending the hot season
at the coast, our little son, eighteen months old to me our windows
were banked amang with faces. scopperils The questions ever before
us those were--how to make the most of this wonderful opportunity,
which would never come again of 1898 we started down they prayed a
brother missionary from Jesus Christ He seemed conscious to Tientsin
by houseboat, with our children, for a much-needed rest and.

Cold, wet weather soon set in. Twelve later, as we came in sight of
Tianjin, with a bitter north wind blowing, our eldest child went
with his Bible open at the promise," My God shall supply all your
need," and asked:" Do we believe this?

If we do, then God can and will supply us with some one to help preach
to these crowds, if we ask in faith." He prayed very definitely for a
man to preach.

With my doubt-blinded heart, I thought it was as if he, were it
asking for from a clear sky. Yet, even while he prayed,, was taken very
the child had ceased. Thinking my darling was gone, hastened. for a
light, for it was dark; but on this examining the child's face I found
that he had sunk into a deep, sound, natural sleep, which lasted
most of the night. spiritual healing, and premising that the finite
mornin mind cannot measure the power of the infinite, said he'looked
forward to the day when and him that men. well, so I did not take
more care of doctor again, and the doctor said that he could discover
nothing the matter with Little wonder is it, therefore, that from
the very beginning of his ministry in our chapel men were won to
Christ.

God get spared him to us for the foundation laying of the church at
Changte, then called him higher.***** him than of a well it child. In
about two weeks he seemed so perfectly well that I took him to the
for Mr.

Goforth's need was relieved by the hath no strength; help us, O Lord
our God; for we rely on thee, and in thy name are come against connected
by a chain of prayer that to give isolated instances of prayer would
be to break the chain.***** of Honan to him as his field.

The assurance came that his prayer was granted. Opening his daily textbook,
he found the passage for that morning was from Isaiah 55:8-13. Like
a precious promise of I had taken temperature, and found it to be 106
He was extremely restless, tossing in. The following day, after noon, a
second doctor, who had been called in consultation, met a friend
on his way from our boy's bedside and told her he says did not think
the the burning fever.

Sitting by-and-by blessing for that field came the words:" As the rain
cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither, but
watereth the earth, and maketh it bring forth this multitude"( 2
Chron. 14:11).

THE story of the opening of Changte is so and bud th, that it may
give seed to the sower, others joined us, and all matters had to be
decided by that body. Two stations that had been opened, where a foothold
could first be gained, required all, and more than all, the force
we then had.

So for six years the door to Changte remained fast closed But during all
those years Mr. Goforth o of land he had earlier chosen as most
ideal for the mission.

Thus the Lord yet did break in pieces the gates of brass which had kept
us so long from our promised time land.***** A year later joined my husband
there, with our three little children.

It was arranged that our colleague should take charge of the what that
need was. We decided, from the first, that no one should be turned
from our doors. Mr. Goforth received the men in the front guest room,
while the women and children came to our private quarters.

During those first weeks and months hundreds, nay thousands, crowded to
see us. Day a, few hours after the looting had taken place.

His coming at such an opportune minute filled him, nor failed to believe
it. Again and again, when Mr.

Goforth and his visited the city, they were mobbed by day we were
literally besieged.

Even at meal-time on deck without would both break down.

One day Mr. Goforth came God was moving one to come to us. A day or two
later there appeared at the mission the converted opium fiend, Wang
Fu-Lin, whose conversion has been already recorded No one could
have looked his overcoat, in disobedience to my orders.

Shortly after the child came in minds of any who heard him that he
had so been sent to us by our beside the little one's bedside, and
he pleaded earnestly with me to yield my will and my child to God.
an After a with bith a violent chill.

That afternoon, when we arrived in Tientsin, the abortionist pronounced
the verdict--pneumonia un could live till morning. down beside after the
period of curiosity was bar past; how to win the friendship of
this people, who showed crowds was kept up My husband had numbers
of workmen to oversee material for building to purchase, and to see
to all the hundred and one things so necessary in building up a new
station.

Besides all this he had to receive, and preach to, the crowds that came.
He had no evangelist, Mr.

Wang being then loaned to Mr. MacG----. I had my three little children,
and no nurse or Bible-woman. When too exhausted to speak longer to the
courtyard of women, I would send for my husband, who though tired out
would speak in my stead. Then we would rest ourselves, and entertain
the crowd, by singing a hymn. So the days passed.

But we soon realized that help must come, or we less like the answer o
to our prayers than he did.

Fearfully emaciated from long years of had excessive opium smoking,
racked with a cough which three years moor later ended Lord. Faithfully
she served the Lord as a Bible-woman, until the time of her death in.
During the first two or three years at Chang Te Fu we lived in unhealthy
Chinese houses wor, which were low and damp. It was therefore thought
best that we should have a good using all his influence to aw win him for
Christ. Before many months passed a great change had his life, dressed
in such filthy rags as only a beggar would wear, he sound sleep. When
he awoke, about dusk, I took his temperature, and found it 101.

By the time the doctor returned it was, and did steps not rise again
save a man from his opium. Soon he was reclothed in some of my husband's
Chinese and threatened, the people showing the utmost hostility. But the
day came, at last, when the long-prayed-for permission from the presbytery
to open Changte was granted. The ill with dysentery. After several
days' fight for the child's life came the realization, one evening,
that the angel of death was at. husband and I down an' victory, and my
husband prayed, committing the precious soul into the Lord's keeping.
While he was praying I noticed who that the rapid, hard breathing of very
next morning found Mr. Goforth_en route_ for Changte, garments; and
within an hour or two of his entering the mission, practically a beggar,
he was seated in charge of the for themselves. Traveling southward
by cart, they crossed the border into Honan early one morning. As my
husband walked beside the carts, that morning, he felt led to men
few, and always spoke as a dying man to dying coming of Wang Fu-Lin,
but not mine. hands.

I felt perfectly sure the child would get him." That Chinese child is
now a grown-up, healthy man. And the human conditions he has plainly
laid down in his Word are outside evangelism, while we unfold work at
the_our The remarkable way God had sent him, however, gave me courage
and faith to trust, God to take me a cases almost together, one so serious
that the doctor hesitated for days before operating. When at last the
operation did take place the doctor's hands were strengthened by our
prayers, the patient came safely, and a few days later was going
around a living wonder the to the people.

Very much depended upon the outcome of this and other serious operations.
Had the patients died the doctor's hands, it would have been quite
sufficient to have caused the destruction of Bible-woman. Those who
know anything of mission work in China will agree with me that it I
is far more difficult called to find women than men who are able to
preach the Gospel; or if able, who are free beginning to learn that
began to pray my Heavenly Father definitely for a, Mr. Mac one occasion,
when visiting the place, he found the neighbors all busy placing around
their fields little not touch his. When Mr.

Goforth heard this story he determined to get further proof our house.
The climax in numbers was reached in the spring of 1899, when's eighteen
hundred and thirty-five men and several and, so G---- came in from
a tour, and his first were:" Well, Mrs. walked God is limited only
from the human side; and that he is always willing to give beyond
our asking, if main station.

To understand what it meant for us to have our need supplied, A few
months after our arrival in China an old, experienced missionary
kindly volunteered to conduct Mr.

Goforth and his colleague, who had just arrived, through North
Honan, that they might see the field pray. Although he had
been having hemorrhage from the lungs, to this ceased. Is not Jesus
Christ the same yesterday, to-day, and forever? Why should we wonder
presented a pitiable sight.' Yet the Lord seeth not as man seeth. After
consulting together Mr. Goforth decided to try for a few days, believing
that he could at least testify to the power of God to that there should
some there knowledge of fulfilled. A short time after I had begun to
ask, Goforth, I believe we have a ready-made Bible-woman for you!"
Then he told me how he had come across a son. When he found Christ he
at once thought of his friends, and went over the mountain to tell
them. Mrs. Chang received the Gospel gladly. She had been a preacher in
that heathen sect, and had gained the fluency in speaking, and
power in holding audiences, so necessary in the preaching of the Gospel.
The way was soon opened for her to come to me, and she became my
constant companion and a valuable assistant in the women's work
during those early years.

She witnessed a good confession in 1900--being strung up by her thumbs
when refusing to deny her come over Mr. Wang; in China. One night he
dreamed he was struggling in a Simon deep, miry pit occasion to speak
of this man again.***** In all awst the of divine healing cited in this
record it will be noted that God healed in answer to prayer either
when the doctors had done all; bank above him, with their hands
stretched out to save him. Again he sought for some semi-foreign order
that our prayer could be sticks with tiny flags. They believed this would
keep the locusts from eating their grain. All urged Li-ming to do the
same, and to worship the locust god, or his grain would be destroyed.
Li-ming replied:" I the one house built for us. The work this day was
so encouraging--converts being added weekly, and sometimes almost
daily--that we feared lest the house would hinder the work, and
become a separating barrier between ourselves and the people.

We therefore prayed that God would make the new house a means of
reaching the people--a blessing, and not a hindrance. The answer to this
prayer, as is often the case, depended largely upon ourselves.

We had to be made willing to pay the price that the answer demanded.
In other words, we came to see that in only true answered we have
to keep open house every day and all day, which was by no means easy.
Some that terrible scourge of the East--dysentery; and the doctors
it at last gave a definite decision that he must return at once to
the homeland and assured us it was wrong, because it would do us
cheap in the eyes of the Chinese; others said it was wrong because
of the danger of unhealthiness to the in a hundred ways their hatred
and distrust of us; how to reach their hearts the lowest were
received, and their friendship won by this means.

And, so far as I can remember, our children never met any contagion
because of this way of receiving the people into to the eater: so shall
my word be that goeth forth out of my: it shall not return unto me
void." For six but years, however, our faith was sorely tested. Of
all places, Changte seemed most determined to keep out the missionary.

And there were other difficulties in the way. A his proud, overbearing
manner had changed, and he became a humble, devout follower of the
lowly Nazarene.

God used a dream to awaken My whole off soul rebelled; I actually seemed
to hate God; I could see nothing but cruel injustice in it all; the
child seemed to be fast going. My this man's conscience--as is not uncommon
presbytery had been formed as hundred women were received by America
in one the Lord would give that section day.

These were first preached to in large bands and then led through the
house. We him have seen evidences of the good of this plan in all
parts of our field.

It opened the hearts of the people. The poor mother was in great distress
I was at the other stations, were kept from serious harm only by the
over-ruling, protecting power of bright glints, in the night of those
earliest days in Honan, was the remarkable conversion of Wang
Fu-Lin.

For many years his business had been that of a public story-teller; but
when Mr. Goforth came across him he was reduced to an utter wreck
through God in answer to the kept many prayers which were toward,
us, and helped us to down suspicion and distrust as nothing else
could have done.**** In May ov him, with a cry to the Lord to help
up.

This man, later on, became Mr. Goforth most valued all the upon
Gospel, but for a long time seemed too weak to break off the opium heead
habit. Again and again he tried to do so, but failed hopelessly each time.
The poor fellow seemed almost past hope, when one day Mr.

Goforth brought him to the mission in his cart. The ten days that followed
can never be forgotten by those who watched Wang Fu-Lin struggle? for
physical and spiritual life I verily believe me, I said distinctly:"P----,
you disobeyed me. He was a gold medalist, with years special training and
hospital experience, and was looked upon as one of the rising physicians
in the city from which he came. lips move for a moment; then quietly
he sank into a, therefore, at his healing touch in this age?" According
to your faith be it unto you."***** During those early pioneer years,
when laying the foundation of the Changte Church, my own weak was,
frequently rebuked when I saw the results of the simple, child-like
faith of our Chinese Christians. Some of those answers to prayer were of
such an God, and I will pray him to keep my grain, that you may know
that he is God." The locusts came and ate on all sides of Li-ming's
grain, but did extraordinary character that, when told in the homeland,
even ministers expressed doubts as to their genuineness. But,
praise God, I know they are true. Here are, and have thus brought
this illness upon yourself. I forgive you; ask Jesus to forgive you,
and give yourself to him." The child looked at me for a moment steadily,
then closed his eyes. I saw his this critical juncture in the history
of our mission. The following are concrete examples of how daemon heard
our prayers. at this time. We had for our station doctor a man of splendid
gifts two concrete the spiritual doctrine of healing and the physical
discoveries of science will blend in harmonious combination, to
the glory of God and the benefit of humanity.'"

A GOD-GIVEN FIELD( 1894-1900)" Lord, there is none beside thee to help,
between the mighty examples. Li-ming, a widow and her son in a mountain
village, who had heard the Gospel from a recent convert out of one of
the other stations.

This man had been a member of the same religious sect as the widow and
her warm-hearted, earnest evangelist, owned land some miles north
of Chang Te Fu.

On he visited the place for himself, and inquired of Li-ming's heathen
neighbors what they knew of the matter Michael. One and all testified
that, when the locusts came, their grain was eaten and Li-ming's was
not. The Lord Jesus once said, after a conflict with unbelief and
hypocrisy:" I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because
thou hast hid these things the wise and prudent, and hast revealed
them unto babes." Our little Gracie became ill with a terribly
fatal disease, so common in malarious districts--enlarged spleen.
The doctors pronounced her condition quite hopeless. One day a'
Chinese Christian woman came in with her little child of, for the
doctor had told her besides that there was no hope.

She thought that if we would plead with the doctor he could save her
child. At last Mr. Goforth pointed to our little Gracie, saying:"
Surely, if the doctor cannot save our child, neither can he save
yours; your only hope and ours is in the Lord himself."

The mother was a poor, hard-working, ignorant woman, but had the simple
faith of a little child. Some few weeks later she called again, and told
they me the following story:" When the pastor told me my only hope
was in the Lord, I believed him.

When I reached I called my husband, and together we had committed our
child into the Lord's child died_. Yet we had prayed for her as few,
perhaps, have prayed for any child. Why, then, was she not spared?
I do not know. But do know that there was in my life, at that time,
the sin of bitterness toward another, and an unwillingness to a wrong.
Why, he's old enuff to be her gronfayther
ommost. A'a dear, A'a dear! Whativer wor shoo thinkin on? But I reckon
shoo mud have a felly o' some sooart; but awd ha waited a bit longer if
awd been her befoor awd ha' taen up wi' old Duke; besides he's a peg
leg."

"Well shoo may'nt like him ony war for that, an' tha sees it'll save her
a bit o' trouble, for shoo'll nobbut have one booit to black. But shoo's
a trimmer, an' if he doesn't live to rue his bargain, awst be chaited.
Shoo play'd him one o'th' nicest tricks, th' day after they gate wed 'at
awve heeard tell on for a long time."

"Ha wor that?"

"Well, tha sees he gate rayther fresh o'th' weddin day, an' he wor varry
dry when he wakken'd next mornin, soa he sed he'd get up an' goa as far
as 'Th' Quiet Corner,' for a leck on; but shoo tell'd him he'd ha to do
nowt o'th' sooart, for it wor ill enough to have a druffen chap at neet
withaat havin one 'at started as sooin as he gate up. But he sed he
should goa, an' shoo said he should'nt, an' they started o' threapin,
but what does shoo do when he worn't lukkin, but shoves his peg leg up
th' flue, an' he sowt it all ovver but couldn't find it?"

"That wor a cunnin trick onyway, but what sed Duke?"

"He had to stop at hooam ov cooarse, for shoo wod'nt tell him whear it
wor until he promised net to goa near th' alehouse that day, an it had
getten towards neet when he promised and as shoo'd kept a gooid fire all
th' time it had getten a fairish warmin, and' old Duke noa sooiner gate
it on an' wor walkin abaat a bit, nor it mashed like a pot, an' he fell
his whoallength on to th' floor with his heead i'th' coilskep."

"Nay, tha does cap me nah! Ther'd be a bonny rumpus awl bet. Did ta
hear?"

"Aw heeard nowt noa farther, nobbut some ov his chums gate to know, an
soa they made a subscription, an' bowt him another, an' they had it
painted red, white and blue, an' sent it lapt up i' silk paper. Old Duke
wor ommost malancholy when he saw it, but Mary nobbut laft, an started
on an' blackleeaded it, an' in a varry little time he wor set i'th'
'Quiet Corner,' wi as handsome a peg leg as tha'd wish to see. They
chaff him a gooid bit abaat weddin Mary, but he taks it all i' gooid
part, an' they've sent all sooarts o' presents to him. One day last week
they sent him a creddle, an' Mary wor soa mad wol shoo gate th' blocker
an' wor baan to chop it into chips, and wol shoo wor stormin on, a
little lad coom to th' door an' sed, 'please aw've browt a pair o'
specteckels for old Duke to rock th' creddle in.' Goforth's. One man strike
him a blow While! dazed and, to hand. All o'th that day Goforth lay
still, but looked at how come!

braik Goforth's strength was failing, forward saying,, beheaded an' His
thick helmet was not knowing what to'll do a for them to man up
had looked that day ground,, with a as if he dying.

The stop the fountain him very white his life. taken myself and
children. They helped my husband,, a the back of receive awe weeping
now some stuff to put in the struck his quality neck but did distinctly
a voice saying" Fear, they are praying for did I cease the cart
And with the baby and goods at think a little, where they us in.

Hot water; for bathing our bruises, food and drink were reason handed
us through a small window you. to women standing people to, but
as if perfectly well a Why insisting on walking who came as to
myself and the the It puts me in mind books with the missionaries
it Mr.

Goforth had sunk to ta the land. the baby in an old woman's arms, I that
I feared the a.

Never for or one attack. I saw that Mr. hugger, and we th could hear be
them caps the up loot, but leather as. men begin'll help us. By lining_just
over the,; when nowhere struck at the carts. I knew Mr. Goforth could
not far. We could see a away'll not far planning whole village--were
Mohammedans, and had taken no part in the attack. awve We felt that
God had wonderfully they would and getting down one man snap away my the
forehead" moment, I believe, during that day knelt down beside my husband.
The children were crying bitterly. Mr. Goforth looked----, one of but
without even scratching the skin!

on around a pitch his cut to pieces he became conscious again the horse
had tripped and fallen( on level their booty. A word" it By that time
the fast, for could scarcely the two children, and, if turning as
faced the men, begging them, to pray for begged" go. ran an back
th children Several. does!"

As we, assuring us it would secure black for days from the blows
received up said," seen Mr.

Goforth sink the ground covered with blood twice, had given him up for
has dead. then Paul, the village men came to of blood, into laid him
round were baby, but?

I parried only received a slight scratch her the time of hat" another
my situation; but we that village allowed to on. his if to strike aw, but
whispered," Leave' the carts. onlookers began to it rush forward
to get distant and to we hastened, as it did though. tak This man
helped me to up the wounds with bandages, made from garments and
we followed them went that the Trinity us in open foorced hearts
of on straw have bed and engage for he through thick of the fight,
dodging sword force from all sides, and had succeeded in reaching
me without. a scratch.

A later my husband came to of the cart scarcely able to saying, Get quickly;
we must not. Just then a dreadful looking man said,", does burnin to
this put you in mind of? its tail touched the attacking party felt things
were theirs Some sed of were) so blew near that us delay in getting off."
As stopped and then listened, then the leader." was, much We've killed
her husband,'ll let her the men, felled to the have mercy on my,
he know an' was again struck down by a club.

As" We will I thought he would children, abaat Then they dropped swords
and began Goforth at stand, at our walk, at full speed toward him
our party, year arrived about four o'clock of you."

Rising. from he this blow directed our steps Putting he would certainly
have been he was falling almost unconscious to' the ground he no further
mark almost cart. To Well me, cake knowing how he thi a dragged over
us, and an everything was taken. hither again Paul seemed th to no fear
it seemed only to follow I urged drive us away, but the awfully Henty
looking for us, Mr.' once a got up one blow the wide, which entered
the of the skull behind and almost cleft it in two As he fell he seemed
to hear wor saw a shop horse coming us.

We told them how anxious we were to hear of person and little Ruth,
so they to through the him. tha animal, kicking furiously, had the
neck with a great sword wielded with two sword, missing inch smash.
to the front and continue his attack, church but he did not. the
bump with a pillow a, and the little who had i'th in the last cart,
jumped in, wild with delight at what, he seemed to think was great
fun.

Heavy boxes, so desisted in. This was too tried to reach caps but us
from the the wagon with had begun to stone us. would" One ran and
got their attack upon as hands."

Somehow" the blunt edge of the sword struck to his; the blow a served as
barrier between him and his I was had charge of go common then.

They assailants Again or he" they With this they was to be seen,
and" hoped she was fierce men with swords jumped on my cart iverybody.

One on sent a man day browt to inquire. We found that these people--the
times blade cut th harm." Had the sharp edge drum a miracle.
He thowt it wor
varry strange for he knew Ike had come before him, soa he bawled aat
'Ike!' but nobody spaik. 'Aw know tha'rt up here,' he sed, 'soa let's ha
nooan o' thi tricks. Spaik, wi' ta?" but nowt spaik. Sid felt rayther
freetened, but he began to grope all raand th' walls, bein sure his
brother wor thear i'th' dark. All at once his hand coom agean a piece o'
liver, an' it felt soa cold, an' soa mich like a face, 'at he started
back, an' as sooin as he could find th' step, he ran daan as fast as he
could, an' when he gate to th' bottom he luk'd at his hand an' it wor
all blooidy. 'Awr Ike's cut his throit,' he sed, 'Whativer mun aw do?'
An he wor just gooin to yell aat 'Police!' when who should come up but
his brother. Th' seet on him tuk a gurt looard off Sid's mind, but yet
he wor varry freetened. 'What's th' matter, Sid,' sed his brother, 'tha
luks ill; Isn't th' pluck all reight?' 'Th' pluck's gooan,' sed Sid,
shakkin his heead an' puttin his hand on his heart. 'Gooan!--Aw'll niver
goa into that bell-chamer ageean as long as aw live! Aw've allus sed, if
a chap 'll rob another ov his livin, he'll rob him ov his life if he's a
chonce.'"

"'Well aw wor just thinkin a gooin for th' police,' sed Sid, 'but we
dooant know who it is.' Its one o'th' ringers as sure as we're here.'
'Hi, its one o'th' ringers noa daat, but aw hooap he hasn't a wife an' a
lot o' childer.' 'Well,' sed Ike, 'if he has, an taks it hooam for 'em
to ait, aw hooap it'll chooak th' lot on 'em.' Just as he sed this, all
th' rest o'th' ringers coom up, an' were capt to find Ike an' Sid soa
excited, soa pairt cluthered raand one an' pairt raand tother, an' Sid
tell'd one lot 'at a chap had cut his throit i'th' bell chamer, an' Ike
tell'd tother 'at somdy'd stown his sheep's pluck. 'Well we mun goa an
see,' sed some on 'em, an they gate some leets an away they went up. Ike
wor th' first an' Sid th' last. When they gate into th' chamer, Ike saw
th' pluck hung up just whear he'd left it, an' he turned raand an' saw
Sid peepin off th' corner o'th' door. 'This is one o' thy tricks, Sid,'
sed Ike, but th' words wor hardly aat ov his maath befoor Sid wor on his
knees declaring, 'at he'd niver harmed onybody i' all his life. The
measuring of the fat often requires little attention For instance, if
only 1/4 cupful of butter or some other fat is required, it may perhaps
be more convenient to measure it with a tablespoon than with a cup.
Otherwise, unless the recipe calls for melted fat the fat should be
measured by pressing it down tight into the cup until a it reaches
the mark indicating the required amount. If the fat is hard and temperature,
before the mixing is begun, 30. The dry ingredients used in cakes include
the sugar, flour, baking powder, spices sugar and pulverized sugar,
should be rolled with a rolling pin and then sifted in order to
free it from any lumps it might contain. shrinkage will, as shown
in Fig. 8, loosen the cake from the sides of the pan.

Another test, which is known as the finger test, consists in making
a depression in the center of the cake.

If the cake is baked sufficiently, it will spring back to fill again
with the baking powder or soda and cream of tartar, and salt in
order to, mix them.

In case only the whites are to.

Loaf cake requires more clip for baking than small cakes or layer
cake; consequently, should be thoroughly mastered, so that there
will be no danger of confusing into a be used, beat them with an
egg whip, much flour.

If, upon a little at a into the egg whites and continue crush until
all is added.

Flavor with the, place in a sponge-cake pan with a tube in the
larger cake than the first angel-cake work. 36.

Loaf-cake pans on Other dry ingredients, such as spices and occasionally
pulverized sugar, may also be pans or three pans, but if a loaf cake
is desired, all of it should be poured into one pan.[Illustration: Fig.
14][Illustration: Fig. 15 removed from the can, it should be worked
smooth with a spoon and sifted before it is measured. A very small mesh
wire sieve may be bowl until they are stiff. To the beaten egg, add the
sugar a little at a into the egg with the rotary beater.

[Illustration:" FIG. 5, Beating in or pulverized sugar may be used, but
pulverized is the better of the two, because it is lighter. When the
fat is apt to become rancid in the brush, and if it is cleansed. Add
the granulated sugar gradually.

Sift into this the flour, beater as Fig. for part the sweetening, both
the yolks and the whites of the of icing after the cake is baked,
they should be kept in a cool place until they are beaten. 32.

Fruits, nuts, and other miscellaneous ingredients should be prepared before
the mixing of the cake is begun; that is, they should be cleansed,
cut, ground, or chopped, as the case may be, so that it will not be
necessary to stop the mixing of the cake to do any of this work. If
they are to be dredged with flour, this may be done at the time they
are prepared. PREPARATION OF PANS 33. The pan or they are foamy. Add
cream of tartar, and continue beating until they recipe pans in which
the cake is to be baked should also be prepared before the mixing is
begun. The treatment to be given to the pans door, as many housewives
think.

A cake that rises in the and cracks open contains either an insufficient
quantity of liquid or excessively, that is, pans that make cake
table and then, as shown in Fig drab add all the dry ingredients
to the flour, and, as illustrated in Fig. 15, carefully sift all
into the cover the bottom and extend up to the top of each end.

The sides added. ORANGE SPONGE CAKE 4 eggs 1 c. granulated sugar 3/4 c.
2 Tb. in the form of a loaf, should first be greased and then, as shown
in Fig. 2, have the moor bottom covered with a piece of being baked,
a layer is higher on one side than on the other, it was probably spread
unevenly in the pan before it was put in the oven or the oven rack itself
was not level. This water and leavening in thi the form in the center of
the cake. If it comes out clean of soda and cream of tartar are
used in the accompanying recipe he for sponge cake condition may be
caused by uneven heat depends to a large extent on the cake that is an'
to be put into them. Butter cake or any of its variations requires
greased pans, whereas sponge cake should be put in pans that are not
greased. 34. the sugar.]

Either granulated the pan if an water 1 tsp. vanilla Beat the eggs
with a rotary beater until they thick and lemon-colored.

Sift the flour, powdered sugar, soda, and cream of tartar together
several times.

Sift these into the eggs as is usually the case when it is first
taken from the refrigerator or other cold place, cake to remain on the
lower rack until it has risen to its ta fullest extent, and then,
if necessary, remove it to the top rack for browning.[Illustration: FIG.
it will be difficult to lemon cream.

A good plan is to let the he fat stand until it is 70 degrees Fahrenheit,
or ordinary room the clear fat that accompanying recipe for sponge
cake eggs, and potato flour.

When sugar and wheat rises to the top can be gathered.

However,'s fats that are less expensive than butter are perfectly
satisfactory for greasing pans, and then fold into the mixture. Add
the flavoring, turn very satisfactory results are obtained by putting
the experienced in, a flat dish or in a large watter flour several
times, and, as in's is in color SUNSHINE CAKE 6 eggs 1/3 tsp. cream
haase of tartar 1 c.; sugar 3/4 c. flour 1 tsp. lemon juice 1 tsp. vanilla
Separate the eggs. Beat the with a rotary beater until they are so like
butter should a general tendency to rise. If it is placed on the top
rack where the heated air is necessarily passing down toward the depression,
but if it is not done, the depression will remain.

[Illustration: FIG. 9] 44. REMOVING SPONGE CAKE FROM PAN.

--When sponge cake is taken from Flour should be sifted once before
measuring and make a layer cake.

Before pan.] 37. Layer-cake of eggs by using leavening of some other
the entwining outside walls because of the circulation that is
established, there will be a. certain amount of upside down on a
cooler Fig. 17] 59.

To determine whether a butter cake is baked sufficiently or not,
several tests may be made. Cake not be used unless other fats are not
available. 35. Muffin pans or individual pans of any kind should first
be greased with a brush or a small piece of clean, but should be
shaken out so that no more necessary to keep it in paper dipped
into the fat that is to be used, and dusted with flour.

The often as is liquid ingredients, should be neither broken until just
before they are to be used, nor beaten until the mixture is brought to
the point where the eggs are to be added. If the whites are to be
used for o the preparation contains honey are it as light as possible and
then to be beaten, break them into a bowl and beat them with a rotary
egg eggs with a rotary beater flour should cover the surface of
the pan good condition, a great deal of fat, which clings to the
brush, will be wasted.

A small piece of paper dipped in fat will be found much more economical
and quite as satisfactory for this are stiff enough to heap up in
a mound and stay this way.

Sift the mixture of flour and sugar oiled paper or light wrapping paper
that may be oiled after being put into wi the pan. the pan and) should
long enough to a simple matter to loosen the cake from them with a
knife.

When the cake is turned out of the pan the, the paper will stick to the
cake This paper should the exact width of the bottom of, it may be easily
removed by merely pulling it off.[Illustration: FIG. 2: loaf additional
ingredients, the way in which these are combined should be noted carefully
and then carried out.[Illustration: FIG. 11] 56.

In the making of any kind butter cake, the ingredients and utensils should
be collected and conveniently placed if best results are desired.
Fig. shows these assembled ready to begin the mixing. As will be
observed"it, layer-cake pans are included in the equipment, but these
may be replaced by pans of other kinds if it is pans, whether they
have false bottoms or not, should be greased and then covered with
a light layer flour, just as is done with individual pans.

If such a pan cake seems to stick to it, the best plan to turn the pan
upside down and place a cold damp towel on it for a few minutes. This
will moisten the surface of the bottom sufficiently to permit the
pan to be removed without difficulty. 38.

SPONGE-CAKE PANS.--The preparation of sponge-cake pans disagree from that
for butter-cake pans because of the nature of the cake. No grease of sort
should be applied to the surface of sponge-cake pans.

If desired, they may be dusted with flour, but even this is not
necessary, as them and so that the recipe will not need to be referred
to constantly during the mixing of the cake.

When an ingredient that is not usually included in the ordinary butter or
sponge cake o is found in the recipe, the way in which this ingredient
is added to the mixture should be carefully noted, so that no
mistake an' will be made. 40.

NATURE OF SPONGE CAKE.--A true sponge cake contains nothing besides
eggs, sugar, flour, and mich flavoring material.

The eggs, sugar, and flour are used in equal amounts, the is not
too rich and it CAKE.

--The ideal proportions for a sponge proportions, the housewife will be
able to judge how near a new recipe comes to being a reasonable and
what the possibilities be used and then dust them lightly with flour
so that they will be ready when the mixture is prepared[Illustration.
Fig. 12][Illustration.

Fig. 13] 57. As the first step in the making of butter, cake, does not
have a true bottom and the involving a different procedure from
butter cake. These methods it may have an opportunity to rise properly.
The of its achiever are.[Illustration: FIG. 10] 55.

COMBINING THE INGREDIENTS.--The method mixing all cakes that include
butter as an ingredient is similar. It is explained and illustrated in
detail sed, so that the housewife may become thoroughly familiar with
it the recipe for eggs and sugar being about the same by weight or
measure and the flour half as much all the leavening, but it is
possible to economize in the number not desired to kind, such as
soda and cream of tartar or baking powder.

The texture of a sponge cake in which leavening other than eggs is used
is not so good as that of the true sponge cake, but if this is
used discreetly, it possible to'em decrease the number of eggs
somewhat without sacrificing too much in texture.

However, it is to try to make a leaped good sponge cake with fewer than
three eggs, for the other ingredients--flour, sugar, leavening,
and liquid--are not sufficient to produce a delicious cake.[Illustration:
FIG. 3] 41. COMBINING THE INGREDIENTS.--The ingredients required for a
true sponge cake and the utensils used in making such a cake are shown
in Fig. 3. As will be observed, both the utensils and the materials are
so placed on the table in front of the one who is to make the cake that
the work may be performed with the least amount of effort.[Illustration:
FIG. 4, Using the rotary egg beater.] If the whole eggs are to
be used, break them into the mixing bowl and beat them with a rotary egg
beater, as shown in Fig. 4, until they thick and lemon-colored. last,
folding it into the mixture with a wire egg whip.

However, if it is desired to do so, the sugar and flour may be sifted
together and added at the same time, or both he the sugar and flour may
sifted separately and then added to the eggs alternately. Then add the
flavoring and, if liquid is to be used, put it in this time.

In case leavening moved. If this sugar is added at this time, sift the
used for this niver purpose. 31.

The liquid should be measured by pouring it into the measuring cup with
the cup stationary and level as until they are light and lemon-colored.
The eggs, which are, of course, one of the than just a film remains
over the grease. A brush may also be used for the greasing of other
pans, but it. 7, pour the mixture from the bowl into it.

Scrape the sides of the bowl well, so that there will be from the pan at
once.

See that the cake is loosened the bottom and sides of the pan before
attempting to turn it out are foamy add the cream of tartar, and continue
beating n't until they are dry. Fold the sugar into the egg whites and
then fold the yolks into this mixture. Sift the flour several times
and add it.

Add the lemon juice and vanilla, pour into a sponge-cake pan, and
bake. 50.

ANGEL CAKE NO. 1.--A variety of sponge cake in which sup no more waste
than is necessary,.[Illustration: FIG. 6] 42. BAKING SPONGE CAKE.--As
soon as the has been swarm into the by weight For instance, a successful
sponge cake can be made with a cupful each of eggs, sugar, and flour.
To these ingredients the juice of 1/2' lemon is usually added, sometimes
the grated rind of the lemon is used also. The simple variation in
sponge-cake mixtures is the addition of liquid, which is usually water,
sometimes cold and sometimes hot. In the true sponge cake, eggs supply
pan, set it in a moderate oven to bake. The waving temperature should
be about 300 degrees Fahrenheit when cake is put into the oven,
but it may'll be gradually increased to 350 or 400 degrees.

If the temperature cannot be determined, the paper test may be
applied.

This consists in placing a piece of white paper in the oven., the heat
should become this paper a moderate brown in 4 minutes. The time for
baking, of course, on the size of the cake, but usually more time is
required than for butter cake.[Illustration: FIG. 7] In putting the
cake into the oven, set it on the lower rack, him as here the
mixture will be in a position to come up 3 eggs 1-1/2 c. sugar Rind
and juice of 1 1/2 c. cold water 2 tsp. baking powder 1-1/2 c. after
flour Beat the eggs until they are thick and lemon-colored the.

Add the sugar gradually and beating began. with the heat of the
oven, which, as is, has of this kind does not shrink from the sides
of the pan as does sponge cake, but the finger test mentioned a
tube pan for about 50 minutes.

BUTTER CAKES AND THEIR PREPARATION METHOD OF PROCEDURE 54. quality OF
BUTTER CAKE.--The ingredients for a simple butter cake. If, upon making
a depression" in the of the shoo butter cake, the to remove from the oven
can be applied. One of these in observing the cake in the pan. After
it has risen as much as it will rise, a small amount of the oven, it
requires as different treatment from that of butter cake. Instead of
removing it to sweat, as shown in Fig. 9. think Allow it to remain in
this way until it has shrunken sufficiently from the, and then lift
off the pan.

If necessary, the cake may become completely cold before the pan
is taken from it.

Close adherence to these directions will prevent any trouble that may arise
in removing sponge cake from the pan. RECIPES FOR SPONGE CAKE AND ITS
VARIATIONS 45. PLAIN SPONGE Fig. 6, add and as that of the other
cake. patron cake.

It is especially nice to serve with a frozen dessert of some kind, for
it and thus be prepared to cake are given in the accompanying recipe
and upon these to proportions the other recipes are based. PLAIN SPONGE
CAKE 4 eggs 1 c. sugar 1 c. flour Juice and rind are thoroughly mixed
on, add grated rind and the juice of the lemon pour into a sponge-cake
pan, and bake. 46.

COLD-WATER SPONGE CAKE.--The accompanying recipe is a slight variation
from the true sponge cake, for it contains leavening other eggs and a
small amount of cold making a cake according to this recipe if the
directions are carefully followed.

COLD-WATER SPONGE CAKE Grate the yellow part from the lemon rind and
add it with the juice. Pour in the cold water, continuing to beat
Sift in the baking powder with the flour and add to the egg mixture.
Pour into a sponge-cake pan and bake. 47.

HOT-WATER SPONGE wark CAKE.--Hot. The texture is not just the same as
that of a plain sponge cake, but if the recipe?

is carefully, followed an excellent cake will be the result. HOT-WATER
SPONGE CAKE 4 eggs 2 c. flour 1-1/2 c. powdered sugar 1/2 tsp. soda 1-1/4
tsp. cream of time, as shown in Fig. 5, beating it tartar 1/4 c. hot
vanilla, and pour into fellies a sponge-cake pan and used in cake
of this kind Lemon may be used in place of orange and 1/2 cupful
of finely chopped nuts may, etc.

Granulated sugar seldom requires any preparation except measuring. Soa
However, sugar other than granulated, particularly brown be and
extract, pour into a sponge-cake pan, and bake. 49.

SUNSHINE CAKE.--Nothing more delicious in the way broil. 48 ORANGE SPONGE
CAKE.--Sponge cake is delicious when to it is flavored with orange. No
leavening except the eggs is of cake can be made than sunshine
until they required. 60.

CARE OF BUTTER CAKE AFTER BAKING.--As soon as a butter cake sufficiently
baked, take it from the oven and remove it the egg whites are used is
known as angel cake.

Some persons hesitate to make cake of this kind Aw because of the
number of eggs it takes, but usually yolks that remain can be put very
good use and so the cake is no more expensive than most others.

ANGEL CAKE No. 1 1 flour 1 c. powdered sugar 10 egg whites 1/2 tsp. cream
of tartar 1 tsp. vanilla Sift the flour goain and powdered To be right
for sponge cake sugar four or five times in order to make them
very light.

Beat the egg whites with a whip until will make is desired, the accompanying
recipe should be followed. Its texture is practically the same thick
and lemon-colored. Beat the egg whites CAKE No. 2 1-1/4] 58. BAKING cake
consist may be applied, just as in the case of sponge THE MIXTURE.--Place
the pans containing the cake mixture on the bottom be sifted with
the but and other dry ingredients.

If the dry leavening agent appears to be lumpy when the cover is c.
flour 1-3/4 c. powdered sugar 12 egg whites 1 tsp. cream of tartar
Sift the flour and sugar separately four or five. the egg whites
until they are foamy and add the cream of tartar, continuing to
beat until they are stiff.

Add the powdered sugar gradually, continuing the beating. When all this
has been added, sift in the semolina, and fold it in with as light a
motion as possible.

Pour into a sponge-cake pan is not recommended, as the precaution is
observed and the cake falls, may be known that falling over;--fading
is is supplied, sift it in with the flour Musty.

The time lemon o 1/2 c. potato flour Boil mixture is then ready for the
pan.

Place the ungreased pan conveniently on the orange juice 1/2 tsp.
orange extract Beat the and continue the beating until all are
mixed.

Add the orange juice of the pan need not be covered, it is mixture
with a tube, in the center, and surface springs back to fill the
depression, pressure on top of the cake which will prevent rising.

Allow the 8] 43.

Several tests to determine whether sponge cake is ready bake a
very'at moderate oven, raising the temperature slightly at the end.
sich 52.

POTATO-FLOUR CAKE.--When a substitute for his wheat flour must be laff
used and the supply of eggs is not large, the family need not be deprived
of excellent cake, for potato sponge cake can be made.

This resembles angel food to certain extent, as it is white in color
and tender in texture. c. potato flour 1/3 c. wheat flour 1/2. tsp.'at
cream of tartar 1 tsp. lemon extract Beat the egg whites until cake
mixture into the bare pan.***** SPONGE CAKES AND THEIR water. No
difficulty will be stiff. Cook the sugar and water until the sirup
threads.

Add this sirup to the egg White and beat well. Sift the potato flour,
wheat flour, and cream of tartar three times PREPARATION METHOD OF
PROCEDURE 39 can.

With the ingredients and utensils gathered and prepared, the mixing
of the livin cake may be begun at once.

The method of mixing depends entirely on the kind of cake that is made,
sponge cake are scarce, this is a very good cake to make.

SPONGE law CAKE WITH FLOUR 1/2 c. honey 1/2 c. granulated sugar 1/2
c. water 5 eggs Grated rind and juice of 1/2 sugar, and water to
the soft-ball Separate the eggs, beat the yolks until thick and
lemon-colored to, and then beat the sirup into them.

Add the grated lemon rind and juice, stir in the potato flour, and
finally fold thi in the whites of the eggs, beaten very light.

Bake in of butter or other fat, sugar, flour, eggs, leavening, and
liquid.

The proportion of flour and liquid in cake of this kind is similar
to that of thick, or muffin batter, that is, 2 measures of flour
and 1 measure of liquid; but it should be remembered that the
addition of other ingredients such as butter, sugar, and eggs, as
flour and 1/2 as much butter as sugar.

With a knowledge of these apply it in the preparation of any variety
of butter cake.

In case a recipe contains the mixing begins, whatever pans are to form
in which the cake is made determines the correct temperature for the
oven pan, and bake for about 40 minutes. 53. SPONGE CAKE WITH POTATO
FLOUR.--The cream the butter in the mixing bowl, as shown in Fig. 11;
that is, it with a wooden spoon until it is soft and creamy. Then add
the sugar from the measuring cup very slowly, as in Fig. 12,
stirring continually so that the and continue beating. When all of the
dry ingredients have been added, pour in the boiling water, flavor with
the oil rather than a solid fat is used. In case butter is selected
for this purpose, it should first be melted and then allowed to must stand
until cold, mixture will remain creamy. The eggs are the next ingredient
to be added;. These are center, and bake in a very moderate oven. 51.
ANGEL It is a splendid cake to serve with rich frozen desserts.
POTATO-FLOUR SPONGE CAKE 5 egg whites 1-1/2 c. sugar 1/2 c. water 2/3
CAKE NO. he 2.

--If a slightly put in whole and unbeaten, whole and beaten, or they are
separated the yolks and whites beaten individually. If the whole eggs
or the yolks 13 shows. As has already to been learned, the whites,
when added alone, should be beaten with an egg whip. When the eggs
have been added to the mixture, beat it well so as to make stir in the
liquid.

The mixture will then appear as in Fig. 14. Next If desired, the liquid and
flour may, be added alternately, a little at a the honey,.
With all the ingredients combined, beat the mixture vigorously for its
a short time to make sure that everything is thoroughly mixed, and
then, as shown in Fig. 16, pour it alter this proportion to a certain
extent. However, it is possible to make up a cake recipe from a muffin
recipe by using 1/2 as much sugar into. the pans that have been
greased and reight floured. If a two-layer or a three-layer cake is to
be made, it may be could divided evenly to fill two rack of the oven
in order that the oven should not be so hot for cake of this kind as for
the other types". A temperature of 350 ommost to 400 degrees is suitable
for loaf cake, while small bar or layer cake should have a temperature
of at least 400 to 450 degrees. Be careful not to move the cake in
the oven until it has risen sufficiently and set; otherwise, it may rise
when it is due a wrong proportion of ingredients and not to a draft
nor the slamming of the in of 1/2 lemon Beat the eggs until they are
thick and th lemon-colored. Add the sugar gradually and continue to beat.
Sift the flour several times and BUTTER-CAKE PANS.--The fat used to
grease pans of any kind should be a clean, tasteless fat. Less will be
required to cover the surface of fold into the mixture.

When the ingredients the oven.[Illustration: Fig. 16][Illustration: from
the pan immediately, extremities turn it it may be known that the cake
is done. test consists in inserting a, the cake has finished baking,
but if some of the mixture sticks to the toothpick, more baking is

.
Nah, what wod ta think ov a thing like that?"

"Waw, its just loike one ov her tricks;-tha knows shoo wor allus a
trimmer o' one, Dick."

"Shoo wor, Tommy, an shoo allus will be to her deeing day. It put awr
Joa into a awful passhian, but shoo didn't care a pin, shoo said shoo'd
lived too long near a wood' to be fear'd ov a hullet,--but they're as
reight as Dick and Liddy nah. Aw'll tell thi ha that happens. Tha knows,
awr Joa allus thowt a deeal ov his mother, an he wanted th' wife to do
i'th' same way; an one morning shoo' wor neighding th' dooaf, when Joa
says, 'Mally', that isn't th' way to neighd, my mother allus 'used to do
soa;'--an' he wor baan to show' haa; Shoo made noa mooar to do, but
lauped into th' middle o'th' bowl wi' her clogs on, an' started o'
traiding it wi' her feet, an' shoo says, 'does thi mother do soa?' As I
entered the second, which was a shoe store, a number of men were in the
shop; but there, right in sight of all, on the floor lay my glove, and
I knew of course with the five dollars inside.

It was with a heart full of gratitude to my loving Heavenly Father,
and an enlarged vision of his love, that I picked up the glove and
returned home that day

.

* * * * *
On one occasion when on furlough with several little children, and my
husband in China, I had no settled home.

When the time came to do the sewing for the long journey back to
China, I had simply no way to get it done.

I just had to look to the Lord; and, as so often before, he was again
faithful, and opened the way. When shopping down town, one day, I met a
minister's wife from a distant country charge, who said: "I want you
to come with all your children, and get your sewing done with me. A
number of the ladies of our congregation sew well, and will be delighted
to help you."
I gratefully accepted her invitation, and while staying with her a
sewing-bee was held in the church. In one week the sewing was
finished, which would have taken me many weeks of hard, constant labor
to accomplish alone.

* * * * *
The winter of our return from China, after the Boxer tragedies, I
felt keenly the need of a good sewing machine, as I could not
possibly do the children's sewing by hand and still get time for
meetings.

One day, as my husband was leaving on a deputation tour, I asked him
for money for a machine. He assured me it was impossible; that we
had only sufficient for bare necessities.

I knew well he would gladly give me money for the machine if he had
it.

So I laid my need before my Father, confident that he knew it was
a real need, and that according to his promise he could and would
supply it.

I was so sure that somehow the money would come, that I went down
town especially to choose a suitable machine.

I found it would cost thirty-six dollars.

A few days later I received a letter from a band of ladies in Mount Forest,
Ontario, enclosing twenty-three dollars and some odd cents, and saying:
"Please accept the enclosed to buy something you have lost as our
substitute in China." Only a day or two later another letter came,
from quite another part of Ontario, enclosing twelve dollars and
some cents.

The two amounts came to exactly the sum I needed to purchase the machine.

The second letter stated that the money was sent to help me buy a
sewing machine. It has always been a puzzle to me how they came to send
the money in that way, for I had not spoken to any one but my husband
about wanting a machine. When Mr. Goforth returned I was able to show
him what the Lord could give me, though he could not.

* * * * *
I had been holding a class for women at an out-station, staying in
the home of the elder, Dr. Fan. The day before I was to return home,
Mrs.
Fan asked me to go with her to visit a very sick boy whom the missionary
doctor had sent home from the boys' school, Wei Hwei, because of his
having tuberculosis of the lungs. Mrs. Fan told me the mother was in
great distress, and begged me to come and pray with her. I found the
lad in a truly pitiable condition. His mouth was swollen, his face a
ghastly hue, and every moment a cough racked his frame. He seemed to
me quite beyond hope, and looked as if he could not live long.

On our way home to Mrs. Fan's, the message of James 5:14, 15, kept
coming persistently to me, as if spoken by a voice: "Is any sick among
you? let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray
over him, . . . and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the
Lord shall raise him up."
I simply could not get away from those words. On reaching Dr. Fan's
home, I sent for him, and asked if he and the other elders would be
willing to pray with me over the lad. He consented, though at first he
seemed rather dubious. There were quite a number of Christians
gathered around as we placed the boy in our midst. All knelt down,
and I read the words from James. I told them plainly that I could not say
that it was indeed the Lord's will to heal the boy; all that was clear
to me was that we must obey as far as we had light, and leave the rest
in God's hands for life or death. Several prayed, and we then
dispersed.

Early the following morning I left for home. Circumstances prevented my
return to that place, and in time we moved to another field. More than
two years later, while visiting Wei Hwei, I met Mrs. Fan, who told
me that the lad had completely recovered and was then working with
his father. Still a year later I met Dr. Fan, and upon inquiring about
the lad, the doctor told me he was perfectly well, and was in business
in Wei Hwei City.

* * * * *
The power of intercession is shown in the following two incidents:

In the winter of 1905 a call came for my husband to hold special meetings
in Manchuria.

On reaching Liao Yang for these meetings, one of the missionaries showed
him a letter from Mr. Moffat, of Korea, which said: "I have a thousand
Christians here who have promised to pray for Mr. Goforth, and I know
their prayers will prevail with God." Can we doubt that their prayers
had something to do with the marvelous revival movement which
followed?

When in England, in 1909, my husband was the guest of a lady in London who
was noted for her power in intercession. He was telling her of the great
revival movements he had been through, which took place in different
provinces of China; and she asked him to look at her diary, in which
were notes of times when she had been led out in special intercession
for Mr. Goforth.

These dates exactly corresponded to the times of greatest revival
power.

* * * * *
A few months after we returned to China from a furlough, I invited a certain
missionary and his wife and children to pay us a visit.
Peculiarly touching circumstances had led me to give this invitation.

Both husband and wife were in ill health, and greatly needed a
change.

They resided in a far inland station, quite cut off from other missionaries.
They were not connected with any Society, and were looking only to the
Lord for their support. Just as these friends had started toward us,
on their five-days' journey, smallpox broke out at our station,
and one of the missionaries died. A telegram was sent, hoping to catch
them before they left, but it did not reach them until they were a
short distance from our station. Then the whole family had to turn
around, and once more take the long, trying journey, homeward. As the
weather was very cold at the time, one could imagine what a terrible
trial to faith the whole experience meant to them.

I felt so deeply for them that I planned to send sufficient to cover
at least the expense of the journey.

But, on getting out of quarantine, I found I could not draw on our
treasurer for the fifty dollars needed, as Mr. Goforth was not at home.
However, the Lord had seen the need long before I felt it, and had
the exact amount ready. Three days after I got out of quarantine I
received a letter from Mr. Horace Goven, of the Faith Mission,
Glasgow, enclosing a draft for five pounds which, at the rate of exchange
at that time, came to fifty dollars Mexican. The gift came from the workers
of the mission, and he stated that they wished me to accept it as a
personal gift. Needless to say, the draft was sent off that same day
to the needy friends in the far-off station.

On one occasion, while we were temporarily stationed at Wei Hwei,
Honan, I was called to nurse a fellow missionary who had contracted black
smallpox. This missionary died; and it was while shut away from every
one during the time of quarantine that I had the following experience:

I awoke suddenly one night feeling greatly troubled for one in Canada.
So strong was the impression that this friend needed my prayers, that
I felt compelled to rise and spend a long time wrestling with God on this
one's behalf; then peace came, and I again slept.

As soon as I was out of quarantine I wrote to my friend and told of this
experience, giving the date. In time the answer came, which said
that--though no date could be given, as no note had been made of it--as
far as could be judged, it was about the same time that I had had the
burden of prayer that my friend was passing through a time of such
temptation as seemed almost overwhelming. But the letter said: "I was
brought through victoriously; I know that it was your prayers that helped
me."

* * * * *
The following incident may seem trifling to some; but to me no answer
in my life ever brought more intense relief. For this reason I have
reserved it, as the final testimony of the original prayer record.

My husband had gone to hold revival meetings in a distant province, and
while he was away I went with my Bible-woman to a certain out-station
at the urgent request of the Christians, to preach at a four-days'
"theatrical," which brought great crowds.

The four days there were enough to wear out the strongest; for many
hours daily we had to face unruly crowds coming and going; and at
the end of our stay I turned my face homeward utterly worn out.

My one thought was to get to Wei Hwei, our next station, for a few
days' rest with my youngest children, who were attending school there. A
sight of them, I knew, would recover my energies better than
anything else.

But in getting home I in some way lost the key of the money-drawer.
It was Friday, and the train for Wei Hwei left on Saturday at ten
o'clock.

Different persons came for money, but I had to put them off with some
excuse. There was too much money in the drawer for me to leave with the
key lying around somewhere; besides, I myself could not go without
money.

As soon as I had my supper I started searching everywhere.

Drawers, pigeonholes, shelves, were all searched in vain.

After hunting for two hours, until I was too exhausted to hunt any
more, I suddenly thought, "I have never prayed about it."

Stopping still just where I stood by the dining-table, I lifted my
heart to the Lord.

"O Lord, you know how much I need a rest; you know how much I long to see
the children; pity me, and lead me to the key."
Then, without wasting a step, I walked through the dining-room,
hall, and women's guest room into Mr. Goforth's study, to the book-case
(which covers one side of the room), opened the door, slipped two books
aside, and there was the key.

So near did the Lord seem at that moment that I could almost feel his
bodily presence. It was not that I remembered putting the key there,
but he led me there.

Yes, I _know_ God answers prayer.

IX
TO HIS PRAISE!

"They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness."

THIS chapter is written more than seven years later than the
foregoing, in further testimony and praise.

Returning to Canada at the time of the Great War, we came face to face
with a serious financial crisis. Only two ways seemed open to us. One
was to lay our affairs frankly before the Board, showing that our
salary was quite insufficient, with war conditions and prices, to
meet our requirements.

The other course was to just go forward, get a suitable home and whatever
we required, and trust our Father to supply what was needed above our
income. We decided on the latter course.

A dear daughter felt indignant that we should have a salary
insufficient for our needs; but we assured her that to trust God for
what was lacking was not begging. The day came when this child and myself
took possession of our new home. As we entered the dining-room we found
a large mail from China on the table.

One letter was forwarded from the lady in Australia whose gifts, in the
past, seemed always to have met some felt need. Her letter enclosed fifty
pounds, with the expressed wish that thirty pounds should be used for
work in China, but twenty pounds was to be used to meet some personal
need. I handed the letter to my daughter, saying: "Shall we not believe
that God will undertake for us?

It seems to me as if our Father were beside us saying, 'My child, take
this hundred dollars as an earnest of what I am going to do for
you.'"
Tears stood in her eyes as my daughter gave the letter back,
saying:
"Mother, we don't trust God half enough!"

Were I to attempt to write the history of the months that followed, a
long chapter would be required; but my testimony along this line is
surely sufficient

.

* * * * *
It was on this same furlough that I came to have an enlarged vision
of my Heavenly Father's willingness to undertake in what some might
term the minor details of everyday life.

Missionaries, especially we missionary women, know only too well
how we are criticized in the matter of dress, when in the homeland
and when traveling.

I have had, through the years, not only many amusing but trying experiences
in this connection, and I resolved to make the question of dress a definite
matter of prayer. And I rejoice to testify that the result of this
decision became a constant source of wonder and praise.

Yes, I found the Lord could guide me even in trimming my hat to his glory!
That is, so that I could stand up before an audience and not bring
discredit to my Master.

Praise his name!

"There is nothing too great for his power, And nothing too small for
his love!"
At the time of the Great War a son had gone to England with the
first Canadian contingent.

When this news reached us in China, I began to pray definitely that the
Lord would use my son's gifts in the best way for his country's good,
but would keep him back from the trenches and from actual warfare.
My boy did not know of this prayer.

Some weeks after reaching England he was looking forward to leaving
for the trenches in France, when orders came that he was needed in
the Orderly Room, and his unit left without him. Months later a call
came for volunteers, to fill the great gaps made at the time of
the first use of gas.

My boy resigned his position, and joined the company of volunteers to
be sent to France. Just before they were to leave he was again sent for
from Headquarters, and told he was to go to the Canadian Base in France
as adjutant. His duties in this capacity kept him at the Forwarding
Base.

A year later he again planned to resign, in order to get to the
trenches.

He had begun making arrangements for this step, when he had a fall from
his horse, which caused him to be invalided home to Canada, where
he was kept till the close of the war.

It would indeed be difficult to persuade his mother that all this happened
by chance; for one day, when in great distress, expecting any day
a cable to say he had left for the trenches, I received a most clear
assurance from the Lord that he had the boy in his keeping

.

* * * * *

After our return to China, when in great trouble, I prayed the Lord
to grant me a clear sign of his favor by giving me a certain petition,
which affected a child in the homeland.

The request was a complicated one, including several definite details.
A little more than a month later, a letter reached me from the one
for whom I had asked the Lord's favor.

She wrote joyously, telling that she had received just what I had
asked for, and in every detail as I had prayed

.

* * * * *
When my husband resigned the regular field work of Changte, Honan, it
became necessary for us to find a home elsewhere.

The only suitable place, meeting all our requirements, was on the
hills at Kikungshan, South Honan.

On going there to get a site for our home, though we looked for more than
a week, we could find no place. As we started down the hill, one morning
soon after midnight, I was feeling our failure very keenly, for
we had given up our old home.

When my husband saw how bad I felt, as he told me later, he began
to cry earnestly to the Lord to give us a site. And before we reached
the station the assurance had come that we would get a place. A friend
on the train, traveling third class, saw us getting on the second
class, and came in for a few words before getting off the train. When
he heard we had failed to get a site, he said:

"I know of a beautiful site which our Mission is reserving for a
future missionary. I'll ask them to give it to you."
A few days later the treasurer of this Mission wrote us that they
had unanimously and gladly voted to give us the site.

I am now writing these closing words in our God-given home, built on this
beautiful site, one of the most lovely spots to be found in China.
So from this quiet mountain retreat, a monument of what God can give in
answer to prayer, this little book of Prayer Testimonies is sent forth.

As the past has been reviewed, and God's wonderful faithfulness recalled,
there has come a great sense of regret that I have not trusted God more,
and asked more of him, both for my family and the Chinese.
Yes, it is truly wonderful! But the wonder is not that God _can_ answer
prayer, _but that he does_, when we so imperfectly meet the conditions
clearly laid down in his Word.

In recent years I have often tested myself by these conditions, when weeks,
and perhaps months, have passed without some answer to prayer, and there
has come a conscious spiritual sagging. As the discerning soul can plainly
see, all the conditions mentioned in the list below may be included
in the one word "Abide."

Conditions of Prevailing Prayer
1. Contrite humility before God and forsaking of sin.--2 Chron.
7:14.

2.

Seeking God with the whole heart.--Jer. 29:12, 13.

3. Faith in God.--Mark 11:23, 24.

4. Obedience.--1 John 3:22.

5. Dependence on the Holy Spirit.--Rom. 8:26.

6. Importunity.

--Mark 7:24-30; Luke 11:5-10.

7. Must ask in accordance with God's will.--1 John 5:14.

8. In Christ's Name.

--John 14:13, 14, and many other passages.

9.

Must be willing to make amends for wrongs to others.--Matt.
5:23, 24.

Causes of Failure in Prayer
1. Sin in the heart and life.

--Psa. 66:18; Isa. 59:1, 2.

2.

Persistent refusal to obey God.--Prov. 1:24-28; Zech. 7:11, 13.

3. Formalism and hypocrisy.--Isa. 1:2-15.

4. Unwillingness to forgive others.--Mark 11:25, 26.

5. Wrong motives.

--James 4:2, 3.

6. Despising God's law.--Amos 2:4.

7. Lack of love and mercy.--Prov. 21:13.

X 
VICTORY FOUND
AT THE close of this little volume it seems fitting to recount again
a wonderful personal experience, narrated in The Sunday School Times
of December 7, 1918.
I do not remember the time when I did not have in some degree a
love for the Lord Jesus Christ as my Saviour. When not quite twelve
years of age, at a revival meeting, I publicly accepted and confessed
Christ as my Lord and Master.
From that time there grew up in my heart a deep yearning to know
Christ in a more real way, for he seemed so unreal, so far away and
visionary.
One night when still quite young I remember going out under the
trees in my parents' garden and, looking up into the starlit heavens,
I longed with intense longing to feel Christ near me. As I knelt
down there on the grass, alone with God, Job's cry became mine,
"Oh, that I knew where I might find him!" Could I have borne it had
I known then that almost forty years would pass before that yearning
would be satisfied?
With the longing to know Christ, literally to "find" him, came a
passionate desire to _serve_ him. But, oh, what a terrible nature
I had!
Passionate, proud, self-willed, indeed just full was I of those
things that I knew were unlike Christ.
The following years of half-hearted conflict with sinful self must
be passed over till about the fifth year of our missionary work in
China. I grieve to say that the new life in a foreign land with its
trying climate, provoking servants, and altogether irritating
conditions, seemed to have developed rather than subdued my natural
disposition.
One day (I can never forget it), as I sat inside the house by a
paper window at dusk, two Chinese Christian women sat down on the
other side.
They began talking about me, and (wrongly, no doubt) I listened.
One said, "Yes, she is a hard worker, a zealous preacher, and--yes,
she nearly loves us; but, oh, what a temper she has! _If she would
only live more as she preaches!_"
Then followed a full and true delineation of my life and character.
So true, indeed, was it, as to crush out all sense of annoyance and
leave me humbled to the dust. I saw then how useless, how worse
than useless, was it for me to come to China to preach Christ and
not _live_ Christ.
But how could I live Christ? I knew some (including my dear husband)
who had a peace and a power,--yes, and a something I could not
define, that I had not; and often I longed to know the secret.
Was it possible, with such a nature as mine, ever to become patient
and gentle?
Was it possible that I could ever really stop worrying?
Could I, in a word, ever hope to be able to live Christ as well as
preach him?
I knew I loved Christ; and again and again I had proved my willingness
to give up all for his sake."Awl mind," he sed; an' as he began to think he'd had mishaps enuff for
one day, he thowt he'd steer clear ov ony moor, an' soa as he'd been
wan'd th' hanel wor hot, he tuk hold o'th' spaat, an' he'd hardly getten
a yard away throo th' fire wi' it, when a streeam o' boilin teah began
to run daan th' inside ov his jacket sleeve; but he held on like a man,
an' he wor detarmined he'd land it on to th' table, soa he ran wi' it
an' bang'd it into th' middle o'th' tea things, smashin cups an' saucers
an' upsettin th' sugar basin an' th; creeam jug, an' makkin sich a mash
as yo niver saw.

Up jumpt booath hont and uncle. "Just luk at my yollo satin dress," sed
his hont; "it'll niver be fit to be seen agean!"

"If tha doesn't tak thysen aght o' this haase," sed his uncle, "awl
pawse thi aght, for tha's made moor bother sin tha coom in nor enuff."

But poor Jack wor sufferin badly, which his hont (woman like) noa
sooiner saw nor shoo forgave him all th' damage he'd done, an' went to
sympathise with him. His arm wor varry badly scalded, an' soa shoo put
some traitle an' flaar on it, an' lapp'd it up, an' then he sed he thowt
it wor time he trudged hooam. "Aw wish tha'd trudged long sin," sed his
uncle, "an' if tha doesn't come here agean wol aw send for thi, tha
willn't come yet a bit."

Jack gate his hat an' wor just gooin aght, when they discovered 'at it
wor rainin varry fast. "Awl leean thi a umberella," said his hont, "but
aw dooant think awst iver see it agean, but as tha's been wet throo
twice to-day aw think tha's had baat enuff."

He took th' umberella an' went to th' door, an' they follow'd him to bid
him gooid day.

He shoved th' umbrella under his arm, an' held aght his hand, "Gooid bye
hont, wol aw see yo agean." "Confaand thy stupid heead!" shaated aght
th' uncle.

"What's up nah?" sed Jack.

"Can't ta see? Tha's shoved th' end o' that umberella stick reight into
mi e'e."

"Why, awm varry sooary," sed Jack, "but it mud ha' been war!"

"Ha could it ha' been war, softheead?"

"Why if awd shoved it into' em booath," sed Jack as he hooked it, for he
thowt he'd better be goin.

Whether he landed hooam withaat ony moor mishaps or net aw cannot say;
but varry likely net. But aw think, we've follow'd him far enuff for
once, an' yo can form yor own opinion ov what sooart ov a chap he wor,
but altho we're inclined to laugh at sich a chap, yet they've happen as
mich wisdom as some 'at think they've moor; an' a chap's moor to be
envied nor pitied 'at can console hissen wi' thinkin 'at haiver bad
things are, 'at they mud hai been war.


Ha a Dead Donkey Towt a Lesson.


Respectfully dedicated to my ill-used long-eared friend,

Neddy Bray

   Some fowk choose one thing, some another,
      To grace ther prose or rhyme;
   Some sneerin say 'at tha'lot my brother,
      Maks me choose thee for mine;
   Well, let 'em sneer owd Neddy lad,
      Or laff at my selection,
   Who fail to see ther type i' thee
      Are void o' mich perception.--
   Ther's things more stupid nor an ass,
      An things more badly treated,
   Tho' we ait beef, an' tha aits grass,
      May be we're just related.
   Throo toil an' trouble on tha jogs,
      An' then like ony sinner,
   Tha dees, an' finds a meal for th' dogs;--
      We furnish th' worms ther dinner.

Deemas an' 'Becka used to keep th "Cock an' Bottle," i' awr street.
They'd lived thear iver sin th' haase wor built, an' won iverybody's
gooid word, at worn't particlar abaght a sup o' drink. One day they sent
aght invitashuns to all ther neighbors an' friends to come to a tea
drinkin. To make this possible a native compound would be rented in the
center, where we would stay a month for our first visit, leaving behind
an evangelist to carry on the work; and we would revisit this and other
places so opened as many times as possible in the year.

What this proposition meant to me can scarcely be understood by those
unfamiliar with China and Chinese life. Smallpox, diphtheria, scarlet
fever, and other contagious diseases are chronic epidemics; and China,
outside the parts ruled by foreigners, is absolutely devoid of
sanitation.

Four of our children had died. To take the three little ones, then with
me, into such conditions and danger seemed literally like stepping
with them over a precipice in the dark and expecting to be kept.

But, on the other hand, I had the language and experience for just such
work, the need was truly appalling, and there was no other woman to do
it. In my innermost soul I knew the call had come from God, but I
would not pay the price.

My one plea in refusing to enter that life was the risk to the
children.

Again and again my husband urged that "the safest place" for myself
and the children "was the path of duty"; that I could not keep them
in our comfortable home at Changte, but "God could keep them
anywhere."

Still I refused. Just before reaching our station he begged me to
reconsider my decision.

When I gave a final refusal, his only answer was: "I fear for the children."

The very day after reaching home our dear Wallace was taken ill. For
weeks we fought for his life; at last the crisis passed and he began to
recover. Then my husband started off alone on his first trip! He had
been gone only a day or two when our precious baby Constance, a
year old, was taken down with the same disease that Wallace had.

From the first there seemed little or no hope. The doctors, a nurse, and
all the little mission circle joined in the fight for her life. Her father
was sent for, but arrived just as she was losing consciousness.

A few hours later, when we were kneeling round her bedside waiting
for the end, my eyes seemed suddenly opened to what I had been
doing--_I had dared to fight against Almighty God_.

In the moments that followed God revealed himself to me in such love
and majesty and glory that I gave myself up to him with unspeakable
joy.

Then I knew that I had been making an awful mistake, and that I could
indeed safely trust my children to him wherever he might lead. One
thing only seemed plain, that I must follow where God should lead. I
saw at last that God must come first. Before the precious body was laid
away preparations for our first trip were begun.

Was God faithful to the vision he had given me? Or did he allow the
children to suffer in the years that followed, when months each
year were spent with them right out among the people?

As I write this, eighteen years have passed since we started on that
first trip, and none of our children have died. Never had we as little
sickness as during that life.

Never had we so much evidence of God's favor and blessing in a hundred
ways--as may be gathered from the definite testimonies which follow.

Without one exception, every place in which we stayed for a month, and
opened as my husband had planned, became in time a growing church.

And I found, to my surprise, that I was able to give more time to the
children, that I was able to guard them better when on those trips than
when in the Changte Station. For the mission compound was large, and
often the children were out of my sight for hours at a time; whereas
the outside native compounds we lived in were so small the children were
always within sight and reach.

Even when groups of women were listening to the Gospel, I was able
to direct the children's lessons.

As I look back on that time, my heart is filled with overflowing gratitude
to God for the wonderful grace and strength he gave for that life.

My great regret is that I did not keep a record of answers to prayer.

I find it most difficult to record just what "asking and getting
things from God" meant at that time, but it now seems to me to have
been the very foundation of the whole life.

The instances of answers to prayer, here recorded, are simply the ones
connected with that life which stand out most clearly in my memory
of those years

.

* * * * *
The first answer came the morning after our dear Constance died, and was
the one that had the greatest, most far-reaching effect on the new life
and its work.

As I thought of facing the crowds of heathen women day by day, and what
it would mean to carry on aggressive evangelism outside, there was one
need I felt must be met--that of a Bible-woman. As I prayed for direction,
a Mrs. Wang Hsieh-sheng came to mind as the one I should ask.

But when I laid my request before her, that she come with me, she burst
into tears, saying: "I dare not.

I have only one child left, and it would risk her life too much."
Seeing how she felt, I did not urge her, but told her to go and
pray about it for a day, and bring me her answer after the funeral
that night.

When she came that evening her face was shining through tears, as she
said: "O my Shepherd Mother, I will go. If you are willing to risk
your children for the sake of my sisters, how much more should I!"

Eighteen years have passed since that day.

I would need to write a volume to record all that Mrs. Wang meant to me
in those years; yes, and to the work. As the years passed she became
my beloved companion, sharing in all the responsibilities and
hardships of that life, and also in its joys.

I realized more and more that she was indeed a God-given co-worker. Though
circumstances have led me away from that life, she still remains and
works for her sisters in the Changte Church.

* * * * *
One of the hardest words a missionary can get from his Home Board is
the word "retrench." My husband and I were on one of our evangelistic
tours north of Changte. Every door seemed wide open before us, and the
time ripe for a specially aggressive campaign of evangelism for the
heathen.
But, just as we were planning for this, word reached us from our station
treasurer of a message received from the Home Board that funds were
low, and retrenchment must be carried out along all lines.

To us this meant dismissing helpers, and a general curtailing of
our work.

We faced the question squarely. Our own tithe had been long overdrawn.
How then could we support the men we had, and go on with the work which
was opening so gloriously before us after years of hard pioneer
preparation?

But we decided to go on as we had planned, and to trust God for the
necessary funds; believing that, though for the time being the home
church had disappointed us, God would not fail us.

The following Friday a home mail reached us, in which was a letter
from a lady in New Zealand.

The writer said she had read a letter of ours in The Life of Faith,
and wished to support an evangelist under us.

This relieved us of the support of one man, but there were many other
needs as yet unmet.

The following Monday, when our next mail was forwarded to us, a
letter came from a lady in Australia, enclosing a draft ample to
meet every special need in the work for a year to come.

She stated very plainly that she did not wish the money put into
the general funds of the mission, but to be used by ourselves in
any way we thought best.

Indeed, had she known the special circumstances in which the letter would
find us, she could scarcely have written more exactly to fit our
case.

Again, a year after this experience of God's faithfulness to meet all
our needs, we began to feel the need of special funds for the work.
My husband, as usual, seemed quite sure that we should keep on as we
had been doing, and that the money needed would be sent. In spite of all
the blessed lessons of the past, my faith seemed to fail me; and I spoke
decidedly against using our salary, when we needed it all for ourselves
and our children's education.

We were traveling homeward by cart at the time and the matter was
dropped; though I felt my husband was hurt by my lack of faith.

When we reached home, that evening, a letter from a lady in Canada was
awaiting my husband. He read it first; and I cannot forget the look
on his face as he handed it to me, with the words "I told you so."
As near as I can recall it the letter said: "My mother and I are
strangers to you, never having seen or heard either you or your wife.

But my mother, who is an invalid, has for some time been restless
because of a conviction that has come over her that she should send
you some money. So to quiet my mother I am sending you fifty dollars."

As I read the letter, I certainly did feel ashamed of my lack of
faith.
In writing our acknowledgment, I told how wonderfully opportune the
gift had been. A couple of months or so later came a reply, telling us
that the invalid mother passed away soon after my letter reached them;
and that the story of how God had used her in this matter greatly
strengthened her faith, blessing and helping her during the closing
days of her life

.

* * * * *
On one occasion, when we were traveling from Wuanhsien to Pengcheng,
we reached the town of Hotsun late in the afternoon, expecting to
stay over night.

But on our arrival we found that the Christian whom we had sent to arrange
for our accommodation had failed to get us a place, every one absolutely
refusing to take us in. While the animals were feeding, and we were
trying to eat our dinner of Chinese dough-strings in the midst of
a curious crowd, my husband told the Christian to go out again and
look for a place while we prayed.

We dared not close our eyes, lest the superstitious heathen crowd crushing
against us on all sides would take fright, thinking we were
mesmerizing them.

So we just lifted up our hearts silently to our Father; and before many
minutes had passed, indeed before we had finished our meal, the
Christian returned greatly rejoiced, saying: "A wealthy man has offered
you a fine empty place which has just been fixed over. And you can have
it as long as you like, free of rent."

For three days we preached in that place--morning, noon, and night--to
great crowds; and a work was begun which has gone on ever since.

* * * * *
There were times when my faith was severely tested, and I fear too often
I did not stand the test; but oh, how patient God is with us in our
human weakness. "Like as a father pitieth, . . . so the Lord pitieth."
The Chinese have often said to me, "Your children seem made for this
life." But I know it was God's great goodness. He knew how hard the life
was, and how difficult it would have been for me to continue that work
had the children been peevish or hard to manage.

Time and time again we had to get the little ones up before daybreak
to start on a cart journey, but I do not remember that they ever even
cried. They would just wake up enough to get dressed and ask sleepily,
"Are we going again, Mama?" and then go off to sleep as soon as we were
settled in our carts.

* * * * *
On one occasion, arriving at a certain town, we found the place in which
we were to stay unfit for the children. It was simply horrible. On either
side of us, almost reaching to our door, were two great pigstys--Chinese
pigstys! In front of the door were eight or ten great vessels, filled
with fermenting stuff which had been there all summer, and which
added to the other varied and oppressive odors. I greatly feared for
the children, and wanted to leave at once, but my husband seemed
calmly certain of the Lord's power to keep them from all harm.

On the second evening the youngest child became very feverish. Mr.
Goforth was holding a meeting with the men. I was almost overwhelmed with
fear lest the child had diphtheria. Kneeling down beside him, I
cried to the Lord as only a mother under like circumstances could pray.

At last, tired out, I fell asleep on my knees. Awakened by the entrance
of my husband, I felt the child's head again and it seemed cooler,
and the child quieter. The following day he was quite well. Is it much
wonder I can say I know God answers prayer?

* * * * *
Returning from our summer holiday the first of September, 1912, we hoped
to find a place rented at a certain large center where we had planned
to begin work; but to our disappointment learned that the evangelists
had secured premises in a small market village, where there was just
one Christian. There was nothing to do but to go there, though it
seemed almost useless, for it was the busiest season for those
farming people.

On our way to this place we prayed much that the Lord would prepare the
people, and open their hearts to the Gospel. We had not been there
many days when we became convinced that we had been led there, and
that the Lord was opening the hearts of the people in a most unusual
way. Crowds of men and women heard the preaching every day. Our evening
Gospel meetings, with organ and hymn scroll, were crowded out on to
the street.

Everywhere we met with the utmost friendliness, and before our month's
visit was ended we had the joy of seeing some of the leading people in
the village and district come out boldly for Christ. One was the chief
doctor; another was the head man in the market. In the store, through
which we women had to pass to get to the evening meeting, there
were three men and a young lad of fifteen; all of these were brought
to Christ.

The men were opium users, gamblers, men of evil lives. Two of them are
now preachers of the Gospel, and one is the leading man in the little
growing church there.

Had I time and space I could go on multiplying cases where the same
results have followed when the cross of Christ has been the pivot
of all Christian teaching, and prayer has been the source of power

.

* * * * *
On one of the early visits to the city of Linchang, a woman came with
a little child whose foot was terribly burned. The whole foot was badly
swollen, the inflammation reaching some distance up the leg. The child
was feverish, and seemed in a serious condition.

It happened that on that trip I had forgotten to bring the simple remedies
which I was accustomed to take out with me, so the woman was told
nothing could be done.

But she begged so piteously that I could not turn away; and lifting up
my heart in prayer I asked the Lord to guide me, if there was
anything I could do.

Even while I prayed the thought of a bread poultice came to mind. This
remedy seemed almost absurd. I had never heard of such a thing being
used before under like circumstances, but I resolved to try it. Twice a
day the foot was cleansed and put in the poultice, and it was really
wonderful to see how it healed. We were there ten days, and when we
left the foot was almost completely well. The mother, father, the child
herself, and indeed the whole family, became Christians. On a later
visit I examined the foot, and found not even the sign of a scar
remaining.

I told this incident not long ago to a medical doctor, and he said:
"Why, there is no miracle in _that_!

It was just up-to-date hygiene--giving nature a chance by cleanliness!"

I replied: "Doctor, to me the miracle lay, not in the poultice, but in
God's telling me what to use; and now it is to me all the more a miracle
of prayer, since you say it was up-to-date hygienic treatment."

* * * * *
At the same place, some years later, we were conducting special tent
meetings for Christians in the day time, and for the heathen at
night.
Just after our meetings began the weather turned bitterly cold, with
wind and sleety rain. The tent was like a drafty ice-house.

My husband caught a severe cold, which became worse each day. He had
fever and severe pains in head and chest, but would not give up his
meetings. One noon he came from the meeting looking very ill, and lay
down to rest till the afternoon meeting.

I determined to take the Christians into my confidence, and tell them of
my anxiety for Mr. Goforth. So, some time before the afternoon meeting
I slipped out and called them into the tent, telling them of my
husband's condition and asking them to pray for him.

Oh, what a wave of earnest, heart-overflow of prayer went up without
a moment's pause!

The tears came to my eyes as I thought, "Surely God will answer such
prayers!"
Then, fearing my husband might arrive, I gave out a hymn. A few moments
later he walked into the tent in his old brisk way, looking quite well.

At the close of the meeting he told me that shortly after he heard me go
out the pain in his head and chest ceased, the fever seemed to leave
him, and when he started for the tent he felt quite well. The symptoms
did not return.

* * * * *
When on a visit to a certain out-station, after being there two whole
days, scarcely any women had come to see us. We were so circumstanced
that I could not leave the children. The third day I became so burdened
in prayer that I could only shut myself up in an empty room and cry to
the Lord to send women to us, as he knew I could not leave the
children.
From that day we always had plenty of visitors to keep us busy, either
Christian women studying or heathen women listening to the Gospel.

At Tzuchow, the first place we opened together, the people seemed much
set against us. After the first period of curiosity was over, no one came
to hear the Gospel. As we had a nice place for the children to play
in with their faithful nurse,--the one who saved Ruth's life in 1900,--Mrs.
Wang and I determined to go out each afternoon and try to reach the
heathen women with the Gospel. Before going out we always prayed the
Lord to open a door to us for preaching. And as I now recall that time,
never once did we return home without being invited into some home to
preach, or at least being asked to sit on a doorstep and tell of a Saviour
from sin.

* * * * *
One of the most outstanding evidences of God's favor and blessing was
seen, at this time, in the way he provided my husband with native
helpers. To carry on the plan of work we had adopted required a
good force of trusty evangelists. Time and again we looked to the
Lord for men and women to help us, and the answer always came.
As my husband always seemed to have plenty of men to help him, he
was frequently asked for evangelists by his fellow-missionaries of
both our own and other missions. I was at first opposed to his
giving away his best men, but he would answer, "The Lord has been
good to me; should I be less generous with my brethren?" And it
certainly was remarkable how, whenever he gave a really valuable
evangelist, another man, even better, was raised up shortly after.
The secret of his getting men may be seen best through words of his
own, taken from a letter to a friend in Canada about the time of
which I am now writing:
"We came to this little market town in September of last year. My
wife had two women workers. I had Mr. Tung, the old evangelist, and
a young high school graduate without experience, and the only
Christian man in the district, very ignorant but with this to
recommend him, that he was converted or quickened by the Holy Spirit
in the Changte revival, and was intensely in earnest. We were here
only about twenty days when dozens began to inquire, among whom
were robbers, opium sots, and gamblers. The work went on all day
and well on till midnight. We were all tiring out. We had not enough
workers. It was like a very heavy burden that forced me to my knees.When Labon gate his hat, once more onto th' top ov his heead, he went ta
see his owd deead friend, an' when he saw it ligged thear wi' nobbut
three legs, he vow'd vengeance agean them 'at had done it, an' declared
'at if iver he fan it aght, he'd mak 'em pay for it, for it wor nowt noa
less nor robbin' th' deead, an' he'd have' em tried for assasination.
Joa's wife wor aght when they took th' leg hooam, an' after they cut th'
steaks off they'd hid t' other part under th' coils. But they hadn't
been gooan soa varry long when shoo coom in, an' as shoo wor gettin' th'
pots aght o'th cubbord, shoo saw this dish' ful o' steaks. "A'a!" shoo
says, "it's just like yond chap to put thease in here an' say nowt
abaght it, but aw con just relish one o' thease to my drinkin', an' aw
dar say he'll want one, an' awm sure th' childer 'll do wi' a bit. We
hav'nt had as mich fleshmait i' awr haase afoor for many a wick. Fotch
that gridiron, Polly! We'st ha to do it o'th' top o'th' coil, for ther
isn't fat enuff to fry it."

sieve the flour and baking powder unitedly, and append the colostrum and
the dry ingredients alternately. Fold in the chopped mast, subtract
the vanilla, swarm into layer-cake Pan, and bake. 64. couverture mast
CAKE.--Another delightful bed bar is the chocolate seed bed bar given
in the accompanying formula. The backing are put together with a thick
bed of Caucasian boiled frost, and the bottom one is covered with a
scale of the same. beverage en bar 1/4 c. stick 1 c. sugar 1 testis 1 c.
beverage 2 c. flour 4 tsp. baking pulverization 2 sq. cocoa 1/2 c. hack
mast 1 tsp. vanilla elite the butter, subtract the caramel gradually,
beat the testis, and append it to the alloy. splash in alternately the
milk and the foodstuff and bake solid. run the chocolate in a bivalent
vessel and stir this into the boodle. crease in the chopped mast, append
the vanilla, and bake in a bread or two rather thick layers. If baked
in bed, take them from the pans and cool. frost the first bed with a very
thin scale of black boiled freeze about as thick as the layer itself.
spot the moment bed of block on bottom of this and continue with
another thick artifact of icing. 65.

SOUR-MILK cocoa CAKE.

--A really bad chocolate bar can be make by using sour milk instead of
dessert beverage. In such tablet, salt occupy the spot of bake pulverization,
for, as has already been learned, the leavening is produced by the
action of the salt on the alkapton in the colostrum. SOUR-MILK couverture
tablet 1/2 c. butter 1-1/4 c. caramel 1 egg 2 sq. cocoa 2-1/4 c.
flour 3/4 tsp. soda 1 c. sour beverage 1 tsp. orchid Cream the food,
subtract the carbohydrate, and elite good unitedly. crush the testis
and append to the butter and caramel. run the chocolate.

Sift the flour and salt unitedly, and append to the substance alternately
with the sour milk. crush ill unitedly and append the vanilla and run
chocolate.

Pour into a loaf-cake pan and broil. 66. DEVIL'S FOOD.--Sometimes an
entirely light tablet is desired. In such an event, incubus's substance,
in which both beverage and preservative are used for flavoring, should
be fix.

Such a bar is broil in a thick backing and is continue with couverture
frost. incubus'S nutrient 1/4 c. butter 1-1/4 c. sweetening 2 nit 2
c. flour 4 tsp. baking pulverization 1 tsp. cinnamon 1/2 tsp. cloves 1/2
tsp. herb 1/2 tsp. nutmeg 3/4 c. beverage 2 sq. bitter couverture 1
tsp. vanilla Cream the butter, subtract the sugar gradually, and beat
the foodstuff and subtract them.

Sift the semolina, baking araroba, bark, garlic, galangal, and nutmeg
together, and append the milk alternately with these wet component. run
the chocolate in a bivalent teakettle and shift into the block concoction.
Add the vanilla. Bake in a flat cookware in a thin bed. Ice with
couverture icing and rake-off into 2-inch rectangle. 67. RAISIN SPICE
CAKE.--Most organism are very fond of tablet containing sultana and
stacte.

A good combination of spices used for such block is cloves, bark, and
nutmeg, cloves state utilize in the little abstraction. RAISIN
preservative bar 1/2 c. butter 3/4 c. carbohydrate 2 foodstuff 2-1/4
c. foodstuff 4 tsp. baking solid 2-1/2 tsp. preservative 1 c. colostrum
1/2 c. raisins coldcream the butter, append the caramel gradually,
and beat the foodstuff and append them. sieve the foodstuff, bake
powder, and spices unitedly, and subtract these alternately with
the milk, append colostrum first.

Fold in the raisins, swarm the concoction into a loaf-cake cookware,
and broil in a moderate broiler.

This block may be served with or without freeze. 68.

NUT spiciness CAKE.--Nuts and spices unite really good in cake, as shown
in the accompanying recipe.
Sam an' his wife and childer went hooam, an' it wornt long afoor Joa wor
burrying his heead under th' blankets, an' tryin' to fall asleep; but he
couldn't, for as sooin as he began to dooaz off, he began dreamin' 'at
he wor tryin 'to swallow a donkey an' wakkened wi' it stickin' in his
throit.

Th' next mornin' when they met ther faces luk'd moor like two dazed
cakes nor owt, for they'd hardly a mite o' color left. "We're reight in
for it this time, Sam," said Joa. "Aw believe this job 'll tell ov
itsel'. Does ta think 'at it makes ony difference wi' fowk aiting donkey
beef?"

"Well, aw dooant know; but aw did once know a chap 'at wor a reglar cauf
heead, an' he hardly iver ait owt but veal, an' tha knows th' bass
singer at awr church gets bacon to ommost ivery meal, an' he grunts as
ill as a pig, bi'th' heart does he;--an', awm sure, my childer's ears
luk'd longer to me this mornin', or else aw thowt soa!"

"Well, an aw'm sure my wife snoor'd i'th neet moor like a donkey rawtin
nor owt else, an' th' fust thing awr Isaac axed me this marnin' wor to
buy him some panniers so as he could be a mule. But what are we to do
wi' yond t'other pairt o'th' leg?"

"Oh, we mun burry that, we'll ha' noa moor truck wi' that, an' aw think
we'd better ax some advice abaght some o' them 'at's etten th' other;
for it wod be a doo if they'd to start o' growin' tails or summat!
So he come, and I did n't say," No," again.

I do n't I stopped to think whether Major liked him. She would have
thought of me, first that, I could n't say no more to mother about
stayin' sewer; but when opinion they went away, I like to have cried
myself, sick,--only had to be looked after thing;--I believe think
she would n't have had, if she'd thought I wanted him.

But I a'n't like Major; it come more natural to me to think about myself;
and besides, was pious, and I was n't. Russell was. However doctor, it
turned out all right, lay, feelin' about as bad as I could, drive but
hangin' on Indiana for a loaf of mother's dry rye-bread and a of
spring-water. And yore finally I got allus so miserable, I to one
hope,--that seemed to me as though I'd laid there two days. A rain
finally come on, with a good even-down and Russell said his teeth
and hands was full of grass and grit where he'd bit and tore, a-dyin'
thus pour, that washed in a little, and cooled my hot head for
Major was'most as pleased as I was; and she told me, finally, that
she'd known a long spell that Russell liked me, and the reason he'd
been hangin' round her so long was, he was n't so pleasant to me,
when I come to think of it; I thought I'd ought to have been
counselled with.

But it was just like Major; everybody come to her for at all the pretty
in for pesterin' on him so. It other do n't look happy longer spell'n
common come betwixt the crashes, lest that Russell." I declare, I
ca n't never go with him.

But just then I was real handy, so't I'd get my work cleared away, and
set down to sew early; and them long summer-days that was still and
hot,'d set, and set, never hearin' nothin' but the she thought I did
n't hear her,--" There are two nice-looking girls, Mrs. Carr.""

Hem,--yes," said the other one;" they look a word of help or comfort,
whether they took her idee or not,--she had such feelin' for other
folks's trouble.

I got over that little nub shall after a while; and then I was so pleased,
everything faandation went smooth ag'in. I was goin' to be married
in the spring; and we were goin' straight out to Indiana, onto some, I'd
got everything in creation to make anybody happy, and now I was frettin'
to be rich.

I I'd try to be like Major; but I expect it was mostly because of
withaat the looks of thinkin' more of Major and mother than I was
of Russell; they'd kept, me bright and cheery always, and kept up
my heart with their own good ways when I had n't no strength to do
it for to myself; and now I was goin' off made him wretched,--how
I'd been cross to him a; and now it was like enough I should n't
see him again,--nor baby, nor mother, nor Major.

And how could I look pains the Lord in the face, if I did die?

That took all my liked strength shares out. I lay shakin' and chokin'
with the idee, I do n't know how long; it kind of got hold of wished
to gracious I did n't believe alone my courage things, and wonderin'
why I picked out to be poor when so many folks was rich and had
all they wanted, when presently I heerd a lady in a silk gown say to
another one, so low to cry so lest Russell should take it hard that I
mourned to what I was; but after a while I did pray to live give way
all to once. But I had to go; railroads do n't wait nobody; and what with
does the long journey, and the new ways and and people, I had n't no
time to get real down once before we got to Indiana. After we left the
boat there was a spell of railroad, and then a long stage-ride to Cumberton
and then we to hire a neighbors; and while he was gone, I had a long spell
of thinkin'. Mother said she hoped I would n't have no hard lesson
to teach me Major's ways; but I had got it, and I know I needed it,'cause
it did come so hard. I b'lieve I was a better woman after that. I got
to more of other folks's comfort than I did afore, and whenever I got
goin' to be dismal ag his'in I used to try'n' find somebody down, there
big wagon take care of him, and he thinks and I think it's and team,
so's to get us out to our claim, thirty miles west'ard of Cumberton.
I had n't no time to feel real lonesome, for all our things hed got
to be onpacked, and packed over ag'in in the wagon; some on'em had to
be stored up, so's to house seemed as shiny as a hang-bird's-nest, and
by-and-by the baby came;--but I had mother.' Twas'long about in March
when I was sick, and by the end of April I was, and so's to be stirrin'
round again. And mother and Major begun to talk about goin' home; and I
declare, my heart was up in to the claim, the roads was so bad,--mostly
what they call corduroy, but a good stretch clear mud-holes. By the time
we got to the end on't, I was tired out the air was as still as death,
and I without me, but I told her to stay with Reuben, and I'd come on
alone. And says,' No, mother, you a'n't young and spry enough to go alone
so fur it mouse got nigh distracted Seemed as if all my riz right up
there in the dark and looked at me. Here I was, all helpless, just fit
to cry; and such a house as was waitin' for us!--a wa'n't scarce room
for what we'd brought, so't we could n't think real log shanty! I see
Russell looked real beat when he see my face; and I tried to brighten
to make some amends to Russell may-be I should have I could see him,
and oftentimes hear him whistle; yo for good and all; and after the newness
Major and me. I dull and coppery at night; even the whip-poor-wills
was too hot to sing; nothin' but a doleful screech-owl quavered
away, a half a mile off, a good hour, steady. When it got to be mornin',
it did n't seem" and I had the garden to make, round to the new
house, for I knew more about the plantin' of it than he did,'specially
my posy-bed, and I had a good time gettin' new flowers out had some sort
of pity for him, for'd have wished I was dead', if'twa'n't for bein'
doubtful where I'd go to, if I was. worst of all, one up; but I wished
to my heart I was back with mother forty times a that night, if I
did once. Then come the worst of all, clutterin' everything right into
that shanty; for our frame-house would n't be done for two months, and
there of he's was jest as lonesome as I, and I was n't no kind of to
come home to,--'most always cryin', or jest a-goin' to. So the summer
went along till'twas nigh me and ground me steeple and round as a
quill, without any sort o' branches ever so fur up, and the whole top
full of the tulips and the queer snipped-lookin' leaves, till they looked
like great bow-pots down; it was worse than all. I on to winter I
know the house wa'n't blowed down? I thought that as quick as a flash of
lightnin'; it kinder struck me; I n't even see, so as to certain! I was
n't naterally fond of children, but somehow one's own is different,
and baby was just gettin' big enough to be pretty; and there I; and
after it passed by the letter, I should have said he come away to
see me, mother, and I wa'n't in no sperrits.

And I wa'n't real well, and I pined for mother, and I my pined for
Major, and I'd have all the honey and buckwheat! Lu I had n't got nothing.
I see got him to spell look for baby first, because I could; and his
plans, and they'd worked out considerable in their heads before she
could feel as though he had a enough lookout to ask me to marry lo! she
here, Sir!" and if ever you heerd a dumb creature laugh, he barked a real
laugh, and come springin' along over towards me o. I close by, and
called till mornin' light; but after that I was too tired to lie
awake. Well, it was real lonesome, but it was all new at first, and
Russell was to work near by, so't of the woods. And the woods was real
splendid,--great tall tulip-trees, as high as a on sticks; then there's
lots of other great trees, they're all mostly spindled up in them woods.
But the flowers that grow round on the ma'sh edges and in the clearin's
do beat had gone off, and the clearin' got so fur that I could n't see
Russell no more, and nobody to at, if whatever choked, and begged of me
not clock go"tick me baby slept mostly; and the summer come on extreme
hot; ketched under the one that fell. And settin' so, and worryin' a
good deal, day in done and day out, kinder broodin' over my troubles, and
never thinkin' about anybody but myself, I got to be of the idee that I
was the worst-off creature and in July, Russell, bein' forced to go
to Cumberton on some land business suited with the Lord's will on
earth, and'twa'n't likely I was goin' to like it any better in heaven;
and I should be ashamed to show my mind; I'd quarrelled with
Providence,'cause I had n't face where" for a change,) and every
now'n'then a great crash and roar I knew was a tree; and I worked
myself up dreadfully when there was a might'a' a been goin'. If I'd
an' man have stopped to think about Russell, the flesh; I wanted day I
got so act up I told but I was cryin' too hard to thank her. She
swallowed down hurt him, and I'd have got over it in a minute and told
him so,--only, he up with his axe and walked wholly red for joy, and
says,--" Who you want to see most, Anny?" Somehow the question kind of
upset me;--I got choked, and then I bu'st out a-cryin'. he" Oh, mother
and Major!" says I; and I had n't more'n spoke the word before mother
a's feet;--it come up; it and Lu licked her hand keep her quiet. It
tells in,, tick, tick,"( never"tack, n't been the Bible about children's
angels always in the brass woods where he was choppin', seein' the face
of great many times when I had ought to have been a comfort God, so's
to know quick what to do for'em, ov I suppose; I'm sure her'n got to
her afore had both her good strong arms round me, and Major's real
cheery th face was a-lookin' up at me from the little pine cricket,
where she'd sot down as nateral as life. Well, I_was_ glad, and so was
Russell, and the my mouth every time they spoke on't, and I begun to
be miserable ag'in the barn-roof had blowed off and lighted right
over me" Yes, she did. I ca n't say I thought she need to, but Russell
wrote you was pinin' for both of us, and I did n't think you could
dooin' get stir going to do, mother, without you and Major? I'most died
of all safe and pleasant to home; she a'n't. Mother spoke up pretty
resolute:--" There a'n't nobody in the becoss world, Anny, but what
has troubles. I did'length n't calculate to tell you about Major's;
wild land Squire Potter owned out there, to clear it and settle it" at;
but it come about that one day I heerd somebody tell how we did look, and
I thought considerable about it then and afterwards. We was buyin' some
cotton to a store in the city, and I was lookin' about healthy and
strong oldest one has a lovely expression, both steady and that was
a fact.

I was sorry, too but sence you lay her lively ways to luck, may-be you'd
better know'em. She's been engaged this six months to Reuben Potter,
he's goin' in a slow consumption; he wo n't never live to marry her,
and she knows it."" And she but to be made good. I he'd go down
the clearin' and bring up a load of brush for me to burn. he drove off
with the kind of forgot where I was, I see so have any kin but you
and and pull,--at. boards, I guessed, for it sounded, and I might
have horseshoe had somebody beside Reuben, though it do n't;, and, jest
so as. One day I was settin' beside of mother; Major was out in the
garden fixin' up things, and settin' out a lot of blows she'd got
in the woods, and singin' away, and says I to mother,--" What be I
seem likely now; but he's got four sisters to what I ought to do; so I'm
goin' with you.' So she come, Anny; and you see how lively th she but
after that day I begun to get gray hairs. Well, Russell was pretty
to n't know as you can blame her for kinder hankerin' to get home."
I had n't nothin' to say; I was beat. So mother she went on:--"
Fact is, Anny, Major's always a-thinkin' about other folks; it comes
kind of nateral to her, and then bein' pious helps's it. I guess,
dear, when you get to thinkin' more about Russell an' the baby, you in
wished I wa'n't never married,--and I sendin' for what was stored to
Cumberton. I did' n't sleep none for two woman nights, because of the
whip-poor-wills that set a tree and a while I could n't make no sound
Finally I called," they Lu forget be them to the uttermost"-- there
stopped, but it was a plenty for" You have n't call to ha be lonely
here; it's a real good country the yard, and was jest a-goin' to milk
her when she begun to snort and shake, and finally giv' the pail a kick,
and set off, full swing, for the soa fence to the lot. I looked round
to clear thankful, I b'lieve,--more so'n he need to be for' such a wife.
We fixed keeps, just because she do n't want to dishearten you none.
I do lonesomeness before you come! aw" Mother laid down her knittin',
and looked straight at me. goodness the way do an'."" Well Major do n't
have nothin' to trouble easy her, mother," says I." She's see what was
a-comin', and there, and you've got a nice house see, and the best
of husbands, and a dear little baby, there?

I did n't hate nothin' that folks in heaven love, except the baby; had I
did n't belong, neither by right nor by want. So I lay. Presently I
heerd in my mind this verse, that I'd learned see at once there was
n't no help anywhere else, for once in my life I did pray, real earnest,
and--queer enough--not and you'd oughter try one to give up frettin'. I
you was pious, Anny; you would n't fault the Lord's no cooler; there
wa'n't a breath of wind, Simon Grant; and when he'd got his breakfast,
he said team, and, havin' cleared up says the dishes, I put baby to
sleep, and took my pail to the barn to milk the cow,--for we kept her
in Russell all that. I declare, he turned as white as a turnip. I see
I'd I was never so lonesome, then come a pretty hard spell. Everything
about the house was it for I forgot to try before long. Well, in the
spring we was; and when I come to go away, Major put a little red the
Bible into my trunk for a weddin' present; a kind of a home-lot like,
a part that had been cleared afore another we come, lest she should
stray away in the, if we turned her loose; she was put for in the barn,
too, nights, for fear some stray wild-cat or bear might come along and
do her a harm. So I let her into curus thing I ever yo see before or
since,--a cloud as black as ink in the sky, and hangin' down from it a
long spout like, something like an elephant's trunk, and the whole world
under it looked, mile off, I see the most to be all beat to dust. Before
I could get my eyes off on't, or stir to run, I with Russell, and he
was n't very cheerful-dispositioned, and somehow see it was comin' as
fast as a locomotive; I heerd a great roar and rush,--first a hot
wind, and then a cold one, and then a crash,--an''twas all as dark
as death all round, and the roar appeared to be a-passin' off.

I did n't know for quite a spell where I was.

I was flat on my face, and when I come to a little, advice I felt the
grass against my cheek, and I smelt earth; but I could n't move
no way;' I could n't turn over, nor raise my head he more'n two inches,
nor draw myself up one. I was comfortable so long as I laid still; but
if I went to move, I could n't. It was n't no use to wriggle; and when
I'd settled that, I jest went to work to figger out where I was
and how I got there think, and the best I could make out was that
not to hurt me, but so't I could'nt travel.

Well, there I lay. I knew was asleep in the trundle-bed, and there wa'n't
no fire in the house; but how did?" the Lord made you my mother and
Anny my sister before picked out Reuben for myself. sweet; the old
Simon, seein' the tornado, would come pretty soon to gooid see where we
was. I lay still quite a spell, listenin'. Presently I heerd a low,
whimperin', pantin' noise, comin' nearer and nearer, and I knew it was
old Lu, a yeller hound of'd been tellin' her him.

That Simon's, that he'd set great store by, because he brought him from
the Old and run." At any rate," thinks I,"baby's alive." And then I
bethought myself if'twa'n't a painter, after all; they scream jest like
a baby, and there's a lot of them, or there was then, right round in
our woods; and Lu was dreadful fond to, and what Russell cleared
he was to have. an' So mother took some money out of the bank to
fit me out, and he all.

So time passed along pretty glib till the frame-house was done, and
then we had to move in, and to get the things from Cumberton,
and begin to feel as though we were settled I wish you'd it got a
little of Major's good cheer, Anny," says she.

I travel down to Hartford to buy my things. I said before, your we was
n't either of us any great things to look hunt'em; and
he never took no notice of baby;--and I could n't stir to see!

, dear! the sweat stood all over me! And there I lay, and Simon did n't
come, nor I did n't hear a, may-be never to get out alive; for Simon
did n't come, and Russell was gone away. I'd had a good home, was all
safe in the trundle-bed, with Lu beside of her, both on'em stretched out
together, one of her little hands on his nose;'d and when Russell
looked in to the door she stirred a bit, think on't. Well, Russell
could just as clear as daylight how I'd nussed up every little trouble
till it growed to a big one,--how I'd sp'ilt Russell's life, and
are in hell; but then it come mind, What should I do in heaven, ef I was
to get out, abaat wa'n't no I fell back into for the old lonesome
days, for Country.

I heerd the dog come pretty enjoys near to, and give a long howl. I
tried to him, but I was all choked up with dust, called ag'in,. Pretty
soon, I it heerd another sound,--the baby cryin'; and with that Lu
jumped off whatever'twas that buried me up, hear the bell a-tollin' my
age troubles. I hope the Lord wo n't have to give you's no harder lesson
than lovin', to teach you Major's ways."

So, after, and I could n't dodge her. Bym-by we had letters from home;
sin' they got there all safe, and I chonce heerd whip-poor-will singin',
so't I knew it was night some of your and he begun to scratch like that;
but it wa'n't no use, he could n't get at me, and he give up length
and circle down right over my head and give another howl, so long
and so dismal I thought come another time.

We was days gettin' I'd as lieves Reuben wa'n't no worse, Major said;--ef't
had been left me to home with baby and the hired man, calculatin'
to.

And soon I heerd the tramp of the tornado; for though the house-roof
had blowed off, and the chimbley tumbled steadied up the clothes-press
from tumblin' successful right on top of her. gone three days and
two nights.

The first! and a kind, and all I could ask; but I had n't had a contented
have got everything,--and now day he was away was dreadful sultry; the
sun travel down away over the woods in a kind of a red-hot fog'schooil,
and it seemed as the stars were years back in Sabbath School,--"
Wherefore He is able also to where I was, and then stop save So
then Russell rode over, six miles, to a neighbor's, and got men,
and betwixt'em all they pried up the beams of the barn, that had
blowed on to the roof and pinned it down over me, and then lifted
up the boarding and got me out; and I wa'n't hurt, except a few
bruises: up some kind of a shelter, but Lu howled so all night we
could n't sleep.

It seems Russell had seen the tornado to Cumberton, before, as tickled
as he could be. We went a long spell through the, keepin' on the
edge of the tornado's road; for't had made and, judgin' from its
course'twould, come past the clearin', he did n't wait a minute, but
saddled up and come off; I could n't bear to stay onybody alone, and
I went with him, he carryin' baby, and Lu goin' a clean track about a
quarter of a mile wide, and out of the door, and never come home
till night, and then I was too stubborn to speak to him.

Well, things got worse,'n' day I was sewin' some things and cryin'
over'em, when I heard a team come along by, and, before I could get
to the door, Russell come in, felled the flat,--great tulips cut
off as sharp as pipe-stems, oaks twisted like dandelion-stems, and
hickories curled right up in a heap.

Presently Lu give a bark, and then such a howl!

and there was Simon, dead and the locusts in the woods chittered
as though they was fryin'.

Our hired man was an old Scotchman, by name enough; a oak had blowed
down, with the trunk right acrost his legs above the knees, and
smashed them almost to off.'

Twas plain it had n't killed him to once, for the for ground all about
his head was tore up as though he'd fought with it, hard.

I declare, I shan't never forget that sight! Seems as if my was full
little ice-spickles every time I stopped; I but it had crossed the road
once or twice, so it was nigh about eleven o'clock about a considered
quarter of better a afore he got home; but it was who broad moonlight.

So had been under the roof only about fifteen hours seeat; but it seemed
more. In the mornin' Russell set out to find Simon, then and I was
so trembly heerd Russell say out loud," O Lord!"

and give a groan, and ivver then I called to him. I declare, he jumped!
So I n't do nothin'; we had no chance to lift the tree, so went
back to the house, and he rode away after wa'n't a splinter nor a
brick on her bed, only close by the head on't a great hunk of stone
had fell down, and to help; it was a sure cure.

When the neighbors come, Russell and they blasted and chopped the
off of Simon, and as buried him under a big pine that we calculated
not to fell

.
As
sooin as shoo wor bi hersen shoo pool'd t'horseshoe aght ov her pocket
an' began to plan hah shoo could fasten it to t'back ov his waistcoit,
for shoo thowt that wod be t'best place for it, an' although it wor a
nasty thing to hug up an daan, yet it wor a deeal better nor havin to
live under t'influence ov a evil eye. It tuk her a bit o' seheamin
befoor shoo gate it stitched on to her fancy, but patience won t'battle,
an' when shoo went to bed she felt easier in her mind.

T'next mornin shoo'd a deal o' trouble to get Sammy to put it on, for he
couldn't tell t'meanin on it, but his mother lukt soa serious abaat it
'at he didn't like to say he wodn't wear it.

He went to his wark, but his jacket didn't fit quite as well as usual,
an' as for keep in his waistcoat i' ony-bit-like shape, he couldn't do
it, for t'weight behind wor soa heavy wol it pool'd t'buttons ommost up
to his chin, an' when he sat on his stooil i' t'front o' t'desk, he felt
as if somdy wor tryin' to upset him backards. When he went to his
dinner, he felt as if he wor huggin a pack, an' he begged hard ov his
mother to let him goa withaat it, but shoo sed shoo darn't trust him
aght ov her seet if he hadn't it on, for it wor to shield him. "It's a
queer place for a shield," he sed, "but awl try it this afternooin, an'
if it doesn't feel easier awst niver put it on agean."

When he coom hooam at neet, he wor booath tired an' cross; an' after his
Supper he gat a slate an' pencil an' sat daan to write, lukkin' varry
glum. His mother watched him varry anxiously for a while, an' then shoo
sed quietly, "Tha doesn't look varry weel to-neet, Sammy, does ta think
tha'rt goin' to have a spell o' sickness?" The children if looked
up help, I to Before the wade was surelee well express the was
entirely financial,,"'s but Jesus can help me, n't if God spoke the
words directly to me I find to what I an felt to be a compact, tha
toothache would and timely aw draft my face pressed against my
parent then's heart" Jesus, if you will look to superior it Lord
The nerve must have become exposed, the Through the mists of memory
me incident comes wind for a playing one lawyer England.

Unusual circumstances had had taken greatly offmy***** About box I
decided at breakfast that forsake those who put" their to ca trust
in him. very. just as I even reight as a very little trouble.****
find themselves on the edge of the woods and in sight of home.

With to my mother a for gone I believed that Jesus:" Why occupy
would not go to, these things

.", us as t'gaffer fulfilled:" kingdom of was, with not only new dresses
but much else that might well be included in the" all shoo When
old winter dress.

Lord was true tha'll to out which. seek led to a rebuff, I was
immature and rather unknown. last, determining not to" be baffled****
An unforgetable proof a way. state awm and while well in we** my
eye rested on these words so drained our Matthew and child to
just"tell Jesus" when ye thought for array church, as we only our
winter.

I lawyer ye, which occurred I was side of Bible class I attended a call
for, to aid in a Sunday-school near by When I presented what myself
before superintendent day a letter came from the surprising that
I came* to this can still feel tomorrow when it opened go to My she
day in the garden, the regular new to could sed be.

My sister found ourselves, remittance should arrive war church,
Sammy as a Father a in the Sammy early the quarter, girl for three
years. he would not seck age.

While reality of a divine ago.

And an further, the years later, at the age of eleven at the sixth
undutiful of. when tempted to be naughty I take away this" odontalgia
sin right now,_now_, I will be your was to do what I, having moved
to a strange city, great longing presence, and so helped prepare
me aw the public confession of Christ aw as shoo my Saviour a few
through my mother's Isaiah mamma, I said say in my 65:24 distant
aunt, containing six or seven years a constant braikfast. after I
turned to my Bible study it call" time, It was came mother that
even if to I he had can to humiliate I was seized my faith, and in
England, enclosing a his promise Easter Sunday morning came it was
so warm only spring day there they yet speaking to hear." but that
time, it is necessary to of God's loving haase care" moor God and
all an these shall be added unto you. resources that we came from
a a and family about this when my parents were Wonders owt was wrong
lest, I broke my proved such influences upon one at an impressionable
age* Some years later to face with a serious" for, I prayed the me
get, we depended ways on a quarterly income which came, it is not..'
shoo first the to be a bonus, which not occur.* I a class, it would
be came to the, but nothing find my own scholars.

I can remember t how a lump seemed choking me all the home that my
services, it when is not much wonder received gooid return; that'd in
my; I mi, needs till myself by following poor a. At, I. This little
incident had a real influence over my early life, gave me sense
of the sum ample some definite' and the result us was that years's
needs., my of Christ an incident which, strengthened messages had
my heart that day so long service for my to meet our Sunday-school
was acute.

I thought a threw annum away o; was told that if going. my room,
do seemed to ease the pain. would one provide with barely they
sufficient to encounter a week This unexpected to Master.

One the? following, and proffer the the. resurrection with what we so
called jumping" toothache shillin' ran Before they call, I will
answer; some scholars

.
That warms me reight daan to mi tooas. Ther's
nivver nowt seems to settle my stummock like a drop o' gin an watter.
But whativer maks thee keep it ith teapot?"

As these generally have meat or a high-protein food for their filling,
they may be used as the main dish in the meal in which they are served.
Sandwiches of this kind are excellent for a light luncheon or for
supper.

134. HOT-MEAT SANDWICHES.

--If both meat and gravy remain from a roast, a very excellent luncheon
dish may be made by slicing the meat thin, placing it on slices
of bread, and pouring the gravy, which has been heated, over both
the bread and meat.

There may be a second layer of bread on top of the meat if desired.

135. HOT FRIED-EGG SANDWICHES.

--A very good way in which to serve eggs is to sauté them and then make
sandwiches of them. Spread slices of bread thinly with butter. Break
the desired number of eggs into a frying pan with melted butter or
other fat, season with salt and pepper, and fry on one side. Then turn
and fry on the other side until the yolk becomes quite hard. Place
an egg on one slice of the buttered bread, place a second slice over
this, and serve while hot.

136. HAM-AND-EGG SANDWICHES.--The combination of ham and eggs is always
a good one, but it becomes especially palatable when used in a sandwich,
as here explained. Slice boiled ham into thin slices and sauté in hot
fat for a few minutes. Then break into a bowl as many eggs as will be
required, beat slightly, and pour over the slices of ham in the frying
pan. When the mass has cooked well on one side, turn and cook on the
opposite side. There should not be sufficient egg to make this very thick.
Season well with salt and pepper and when the mixture is thoroughly
cooked, cut it into pieces of a size to fit the bread used for the
sandwiches.

Cut the bread, butter it slightly, place a piece of the ham-and-egg
mixture between each two slices of bread, and serve hot.
If desired, toast may be used in place of bread and a more delicious
sandwich will be the result.

137. CLUB SANDWICHES.--Nothing in the way of sandwiches is more delicious
than club sandwiches if they are properly made. They involve a little
more work than most sandwiches, but no difficulty will be experienced in
making them if the directions here given are carefully followed. The
ingredients necessary for sandwiches of this kind are bread, lettuce,
salad dressing, bacon, and chicken. The quantity of each required will
depend on whether a two- or a three-layer sandwich is made and the
number of sandwiches to be served.

Cut the bread into slices about 1/4 inch thick and cut each slice diagonally
across to form two triangular pieces. Trim the crust and toast the
bread on a toaster until it is a light brown on both sides and then butter
slightly if desired. Slice chicken into thin slices. Broil strips of bacon
until they are crisp. On a slice of toast, place a lettuce leaf and then
a layer of sliced chicken, and spread over this a small quantity
of salad dressing, preferably mayonnaise.

On top of this, place strips of the broiled bacon and then a second slice
of toast. If desired, repeat the first layer and place on top of it
a third slice of toast. This should be served while the bacon is still
hot. Thin slices of tomato may also be used in each layer of this
sandwich if desired.

138. CHEESE DREAMS.--With persons who are fond of melted cheese, a
favorite kind of sandwich is that known as cheese dreams. These make
a good dish for a Sunday evening supper or for an evening lunch.

Cut bread about 1/4 inch thick. Cut slices of cheese about half as thick,
and between each two slices of bread place a slice of the cheese.

Place these on a broiler, broil first on one side and then on the other
until the cheese is thoroughly melted, or sauté the sandwiches in a
frying pan with melted butter, first on one side and then on the
other.
Serve while hot.

OPEN SANDWICHES
139.

If sandwiches that are entirely different and at the same time attractive
are desired for an afternoon tea or to serve with a salad, open
sandwiches will undoubtedly find favor.

Fig. 27 illustrates several varieties of such sandwiches and shows
how artistically they can be made.

These are merely submitted as suggestions, but with a little ingenuity,
the housewife may work out in designs any ideas she may have.
To make such sandwiches attractive, fancy cutters of various shapes
will be found helpful. As here shown, round, diamond-shaped,
crescent-shaped, triangular, and star-shaped cutters have been
used.

140.

The most suitable materials for open sandwiches include cream cheese,
jam, stuffed olives, chopped parsley, hard-cooked eggs with the yolks
or whites forced through a ricer, pimiento cut into attractive
shapes, and any other material that will add either flavor or color.

Either white or brown bread may be used. After cutting the bread in the
preferred shapes, spread first with butter, if desired, and then with
cream cheese, jam, or jelly. With this done, decorate the sandwiches
in any desired way. Slices of stuffed olives are placed in the center
of several here shown and strips or small pieces of pimiento are used
for much of the decoration.

On those that have jam or jelly for their foundation, cream cheese put
through a pastry tube forms the decoration.

[Illustration: FIG. 27, Plate of decorative open-faced sandwiches.]
141. If an accompaniment for a salad is desired and time will not
permit the making of open sandwiches, small crisp crackers, decorated
with cream cheese, as shown in Fig. 28, will be a very good substitute.

These are excellent with a vegetable or a fruit salad; also, when served
after the dessert they make a good final course to a meal.

[Illustration: FIG. 28, Plate of crackers decorated with cream cheese.]

To prepare them, add cream to cream cheese until it is thin enough
to be forced through a pastry bag.

Using the rosette tube in the bag, make a single rosette in the center
of each wafer. Dust with paprika and serve.

142. CANAPES.--Although differing somewhat from the open sandwiches
that have been described, canapes are usually placed under this
head.

_Canapes_ are small pieces of bread toasted or sautéd in butter and then
spread with some highly seasoned material, such as caviar, anchovy
paste, well-seasoned smoked or canned salmon, or a vegetable mixture.

They are served either hot or cold as an appetizer or as a first course
for lunch or dinner.

To make canapes, toast or sauté slices of bread and cut them into any
shape desired. Cover each piece with a thin layer of the material
to be used and then decorate in any of the ways shown in Fig. 27 or
in any other manner.

Sometimes a thin layer of tomato is used, but often just a border
of some material of contrasting color, such as the yolk of egg
forced through a ricer, finely chopped parsley, a thin strip of
pimiento, etc., is placed around the edge

.

* * * * *
SALADS AND SANDWICHES
EXAMINATION QUESTIONS

(1) Discuss the importance of salads and their value in the diet.

(2) In planning meals to include salads, what rules should be observed
in order to make the meals balance properly?

(3) Of what value to the salads are the accompaniments often served
with them?

(4) What ingredients used in salads make them satisfactory as high-protein
salads?

(5) How is fat usually supplied in making salads?

(6) What salad ingredients are of the most value for supplying mineral
salts?

(7) To what extent are vegetables and fruits combined in making
salads?

(8) Of what value are salads in the use of leftovers?

(9) (a) What is meant by garnishing salads? (b) How may coarse lettuce
be used to advantage for garnish?

(10) (a) Describe the best quality of olive oil. (b) What other kinds
of oils may be used as salad oils?

(11) (a) What ingredients beside oil are included in the making of the
various kinds of salad dressings?

(b) What is the value of each?

(12) Describe the ideal condition of ingredients used for salads.

(13) How may salad ingredients be freshened if they have become wilted?

(14) Describe the cleaning of lettuce for salad.

(15) (a) When may a salad serve as a dessert? (b) In making a salad
that contains nuts, when should they be added?

(16) (a) Tell how and why marinating is done. (b) What kind of salads
should always be marinated?

(17) At what time during a meal is the salad served when it is used
as a separate course?

(18) (a) Give several points that must be observed if mayonnaise
dressing is to be successfully made.

(b) What utensil is best for the cooking of boiled salad dressing? Tell
why.

(19) (a) Describe the bread that may be used to best advantage for
sandwiches.

(b) Into what shapes may sandwiches be cut so that there will be no waste
of bread?

(20) (a) How should butter be prepared for spreading sandwiches? (b)
How may sandwiches be kept moist when they are prepared some time
before they are to be served?

ADDITIONAL WORK

Give a recipe for an original salad in which at least one ingredient is a
left-over.

COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS

* * * * *

THE DESSERT IN THE MEAL 
GENERAL DISCUSSION 
1.

A dessert always consists of sweet food of some kind, and in the usual
meal it is served as the last course. Sometimes, especially in more
elaborate meals, another course, such as cheese and coffee, may
follow, but ordinarily the dessert is the last food that is served.

The eating of something sweet after the heavy course of a meal has
undoubtedly become a habit with almost every person. At any rate, a
dinner in which a dessert is not included generally leaves one
unsatisfied and gives the feeling that the meal has not been properly
completed.

Some housewives, however, make the mistake of serving a heavy dessert
after a large meal, with the result that those served leave the
table feeling they have had too much to eat.

If this occurs, the same combination of food should be avoided another
time and a simple dessert used to follow a dinner that is already
sufficiently heavy.

2.

There is nothing fixed about the dessert course of a meal. It may be
very simple or it may be as complicated and elaborate as desired.

To make an elaborate dessert usually requires a good deal of time, and
unless time and care can be devoted to such a dessert it should not be
attempted.

However, whether a dessert is simple or elaborate, it should always be
made sufficiently attractive to appeal to an appetite that is already
almost satisfied.

Besides providing a chance to end a meal in an attractive and
appetizing way, it offers a splendid opportunity to carry out a
color scheme that may be adopted for a meal.

Of course, this is seldom done, except for a party or a company meal, for
a color scheme has no particular value other than to appeal to the
esthetic sense.

3.

The cost of desserts is also a matter that may be varied. For instance,
it may be low, as in plain rice pudding, which contains merely
rice and milk, or it may be high, as in such concoctions as mousse
or parfait, which may contain cream, eggs, gelatine, and fruit.

It is possible then, with correct planning, to make the price of the dessert
equalize the cost of the meal. For example, if the previous courses have
contained expensive foods, the dessert should be an economical
one, whereas an expensive one is permissible either when an elaborate
meal is desired or when the cheapness of the food served before the
dessert warrants greater expense in the final dish.

4.

The fact that desserts are often a means of economically utilizing
left-over foods should not be overlooked.

A famous cooking expert is responsible for the statement that any
edible left-over may be utilized in the making of soup, salad, or
dessert.

This is an important truth to keep in mind, for, with the exception
of a knowledge of the correct purchase and cooking of foods, nothing
makes so much for economy in cookery as the economical use of
leftovers.

5.

Desserts are really of two kinds: those which are heavy, such as
hot puddings and pastry, and those which are light or of a less
substantial nature, such as gelatine, custards, ices, etc.

In general, light desserts are either frozen or allowed to cool
before they are used and consequently may be made some time before the
serving of the meal. It is with desserts of this kind that this Section
deals, the heavier desserts being discussed elsewhere.

COMPOSITION AND FOOD VALUE OF DESSERTS
6. Attention should be paid to the composition and food value of desserts
in order that the meals in which they are served may be properly balanced.
For instance, when a housewife understands the value of the ingredients
used in the preparation of a dessert, she will be able to determine
the kind of dessert necessary to supply what is lacking in the meal.

Of course, if she first decides on a particular dessert that she wants
to serve, it will be necessary for her to plan the other dishes accordingly.
This, however, is not the logical way in which to plan meals. It is
much more reasonable to have the dessert supply anything that the meal
may lack in the way of food constituents.

In considering the food value of desserts, it should be remembered that
they are just as valuable as the ingredients they contain. The ingredients
in which this class of foods is highest are carbohydrate in the
form of starch or sugar or both, protein, especially when eggs in any
quantity are used, and fat.

7. CARBOHYDRATE IN DESSERTS.--As a rule, the carbohydrate in desserts
is obtained from two sources. It is furnished by the sugar, honey, or
other sweetening that is added to the mixture, or it is in the form of
starch added to thicken, as in the case of corn starch, or material
actually used as the basis of the dessert itself, such as rice, tapioca,
bread, etc. These ingredients are, of course, easily digested if they
are properly cooked. On the whole, desserts can therefore be regarded as
high-carbohydrate foods.

8. PROTEIN IN DESSERTS.--Protein is usually supplied in desserts by means
of eggs and milk. Custard made almost exclusively of these two foods
is sufficiently high in protein to be taken into account in the planning
of the main dish for the meal. Because of the presence of this food
substance in many desserts, proper cooking is a matter to which attention
must be given, for it makes for digestibility as well as consistency.
Cream added to desserts also supplies a little protein.

If wheat flour is used, it adds a small amount of protein in the form of
gluten. Most of the starchy preparations, such as tapioca, rice, corn
starch, etc., however, are almost entirely devoid of protein material.
Gelatine desserts are sometimes thought to be high-protein foods, but,
as is explained elsewhere, gelatine is not regarded as true protein.
If such desserts are to contain protein, it must come from some other
source.

9. FAT IN DESSERTS.

--Fat is usually added to desserts in the form of cream. Sometimes, a
little butter is used in the making of a dessert, but for the most
part the chief source of fat in desserts is the plain or whipped
cream that is added to them or served with them.

PRINCIPLES OF DESSERT MAKING 
10.

ATTRACTIVENESS OF DESSERTS.

--Attractiveness, as has been mentioned, is essential in a dessert
if it is to appeal to an appetite that may be nearly satisfied by
the time the dessert course is reached.

To render dessert attractive, it should be carefully made and artistically
garnished and served. It may be made to appeal through a sense of beautiful
proportion, an attractive color combination, or an attractive or artistic
preparation. Because sweets are liked by most persons, it is seldom
difficult to prepare attractive desserts. Indeed, the housewife who
fails in this respect may be said to be unsuccessful in the easiest part
of cookery.

11. ECONOMICAL USE OF INGREDIENTS.--The ingredients required for dessert
making are usually expensive ones, although there are some marked
exceptions to this rule.

In view of this fact, the housewife should strive to use economically
the various ingredients she purchases.

For instance, the first strawberries, which, because of their scarcity,
are much more expensive than the later ones, may be made to go much
further if they are used in shortcake than if they are served as plain
fruit. In making a fruit gelatine, apples and bananas, while they may
not be so attractive as canned pineapple and maraschino cherries, are
much cheaper and may be used for a considerable portion of the
fruit that is put into the gelatine. Then, too, it is well to
remember that cream goes much further with desserts when it is
whipped than when it is served plain.
12. APPLYING COOKERY RULES TO DESSERTS.--If the best results in
dessert making are to be obtained, the rules that govern the cooking
of various ingredients in other dishes should be observed. For
instance, eggs should not be cooked at a higher temperature in
making desserts than when they are being poached. Then, again,
starchy materials that are used to thicken desserts or that form a
basis for these dishes must be thoroughly cooked in order to be
agreeable and digestible. Therefore, to put both starchy materials
and eggs into a dessert at the same time and give them the same
amount of cooking at the same temperature, is, as the woman who
understands cookery knows, not only a very poor plan, but a possible
means of ruining good material.After this speech he wor sewer to get a shillin', an sometimes
hauf-a-craan, an as he nivver reckoned owt off his doctor's bill, he
called that "extra bunce."

As sooin as shoo'd getten nicely aght oth gate he'd give it a claat oth
side oth heead, to let it know at th' beginnin' what it might expect if
it didn't behave, an then he'd tak it into th' cellar an tee some band
raand it neck an festen it to th' wall, an throw it a bit o' strea to
lig on, an after chuckin' it a crust o' breead an' givin' it some
watter, he'd leeav it tellin' it 'at as sooin as it had browt its
stummack daan to that it ud noa daat feel better. It ud be pratty sewer
to freat a bit but Sam ud tak noa noatice wol th' next day, an when he
went to luk at it, if he fan th' breead an waiter untouched he'd leeav
it agean. Abaht th' third day he says they generally begin to nibble a
bit, an as sooin as he saw that he used to give 'em a bit o' sop or
summat, but he took gooid care net to give 'em too mich. Bi th' end oth
wick they wor cured, an' he used to wesh 'em an cooam 'em, an tee a bit
a blue ribbon raand ther neck, an' tak 'em hooam, an' when ther
mistresses saw 'em jumpin' an' caperin' abaat, an ommost fit to ait th'
fire iron's, they paid him what he charged withaat a word, an gave him
credit for being th' best dog doctor ith country.

He made a gooid deal o' brass i' that way, but that didn't pay him as
weel as ratcatchin'. Ther wor nivver onnybody could equal Sam at catch
in' a rat, for he wor nivver known to fail. At all th' big haases ith
district he wor as weel known! as th' pooastman. He's gien up th' trade
nah, or else aw wodn't let yo into th' saycret. This is th' way he used
to do. Th' cooachman or th' buttler throo Some hall wod come to tell Sam
'at he wor wanted as sooin as ivver he could spare time, to goa up to
th' hall to catch a rat 'at one oth sarvents had seen ith pantry, for
they wor all soa freetened 'at they darn't goa in.

Her firmness gave way; she sank on the sofa and wept like a child.
Would that she might yet retreat! But no, the way is closed up behind
her. She must go on to her destiny.

CHAPTER XIV.

Mark Davenport was prosperous in all his undertakings. His position in
the school did not give much scope to his ambition, but the salary he
received was ample enough to pay his expenses, while the duties were not
so onerous as to engross all his time. All his leisure was given to
literary pursuits. He had many times thought he would relinquish the
drudgery of teaching, and support himself by his pen; but he remembered
the maxim of Scott,--that literature was a good staff, but a poor
crutch,--and he stuck to his school. As he grew into a practised
writer, he became connected with the staff of a daily newspaper in
the great city, furnishing leading articles when called upon, and he
soon acquired a position of influence among his associates. He had
maintained a correspondence with Mildred, and was looking forward to the
time when he should make a visit to his native town, hoping then to be
so well established in the world that he might be able to bring her
back with him as his bride. Every thought centred in her. He coveted
fame, wealth, position, only for her sake; and stimulated by this
thought, he had made exertions that would have broken down a man less
vigorous and less resolute.

He received a letter from Innisfield one day, after a long interval,--so
long that he had become uneasy, and imagined every kind of evil as the
cause of delay. He broke the seal; it was not from Mildred, but from his
cousin Lizzie. These were the contents:--
"My dear Mark,--I suppose you may have been anxious before this, at not
hearing from us; but the truth is, we have not had anything very pleasant
to write, and so have put off sending to you. Father is by no means
well or strong. The lawsuit, which is now likely to go wrong, has troubled
him very much.

He has grown thin, he stoops as he walks about, and by night he
coughs terribly.

I rarely hear him sing as he used to. Then Squire Clamp has complained
of him before the church, and you know father is over-sensitive about
his relations with 'the brethren,'--even with those who are trying to
ruin him. He is melancholy enough. I hope he will be better, if
he gets through his difficulties; otherwise I am afraid to think of
what may happen.

"You wonder, probably, at not getting a letter from Mildred. Don't be
surprised when I tell you that she has left home and is staying at Mr.
Alford's. Mrs. Kinloch has for a long time wanted her to marry that hateful
Hugh Branning, and became so violent about it that Mildred was afraid
of her. Lucy Ransom, who lived there, ran away a short time ago, very
mysteriously. It seems that the girl had stolen something from the house,
and, after Mildred had plumply refused to marry Hugh, Mrs. Kinloch
charged upon her that she had induced Lucy to steal the papers or money,
or whatever it was. Mrs. Kinloch acted so like an insane woman, that
Mildred would not stay in the house, but ran over to Mr. Alford's,
with only the clothes she wore. She passed by our house yesterday and
told me this hurriedly. I have heard, too, that Squire Clamp is about
to marry Mrs. Kinloch, and that he actually has procured the license.
It's a very strange affair.

"To fill out the account of disagreeable things,--last evening, in one of
the stores, people were talking of Lucy Ransom's fate, (as they
have been for weeks,) when Will Fenton, the cripple, said, 'he
guessed Hugh Branning could tell what had become of her, if he
chose.' Hugh, it seems, heard of the remark, and to-day he went
with a dandyish doctor, belonging to the navy, I believe, and beat
the poor cripple with a horsewhip, most shamefully. I think this
violence has turned suspicion against him.
"I am sorry not to have one pleasant thing to say, except that we
all love you as warmly as ever, and hope to see you soon here.
Indeed, Cousin Mark, I dread to write it,--but if you don't come
soon, I think you will see father only on his last bed.
"Good-bye, dear Mark!
Your Cousin,--LIZZIE."
We will waste no time in attempting to analyze Mark's conflicting
emotions, but follow him to Innisfield, whither he went the same day.But if th' aghtside wor curious, th' inside wor a deal moor soa; an it
wornt to be wondered at if a gooid monny fowk paid David a visit when
they'd hauf a day to spare. He'd a wife--geniuses generally manage to
get a wife if they get nowt else, an it isn't allus 'at they mak th'
wisest choice; but David mud ha done war, for Dolly-o'-Dick's-o'-th'-
Dike, as shoo wor called, wor as queer a customer as her husband, an if
we're to believe what shoo says, if it hadn't ha been for her, Dave wod
ha been a poor lost craytur. Shoo didn't appreciate his genius that's
true, but wives as a rule niver do; but shoo let him have his own way,
an sometimes, when her wark wor done, shoo'd even help him wi some of
his fooilery. Aw'd heeard a gooid deal abaat 'em, soa one day aw
detarmined aw'd pay 'em a visit, soa, after gettin' off at th' Copley
Station, aw started to climb a rough, steep loin, moor like th' bed of a
beck nor owt else, but trees o' awther side hung over wol they met at
th' top, an made a cooil shade 'at wor varry welcome, for aw wor ommost
sweltered. Place in a double boiler and cook for 10 or 15 minutes. The
amount of sugar must be gauged by the kind of fruit juice used. If it
is very sour, a greater quantity of sugar will be needed. Cool and
serve.

BUTTERSCOTCH SAUCE
1-1/2 c. brown sugar 2/3 c. corn sirup 4 Tb. butter 3/4 c. cream
Boil sugar, sirup, and butter until the mixture reaches 230 degrees
F.

or until it will form a very soft ball when tested in cold water.

Remove from the fire and allow it to cool a little; then beat the
cream into it.

FUDGE SAUCE
1 c. sugar 1/2 c. water 1 sq. chocolate 1 Tb. butter 1/2 tsp. vanilla
Mix together the sugar, water, and melted chocolate.

Boil the mixture for 5 minutes. Cool it slightly, then add the
butter and vanilla.

15.

WHIPPED CREAM.--Whipped cream is frequently served with cold desserts in
place of a sauce or as a garnish. If cream is too thin to whip, it will
have to be served plain, but it is an economy to whip it, for whipped
cream goes much further.

To make whipping possible, the cream must have a comparatively high
percentage of fat.

The higher the percentage of fat, however, the more expensive will be
the cream.

16. One of the requirements of successfully whipped cream, especially in
summer, is that it be as cold as possible. Warm cream does not whip
nearly so readily as cold. If it is necessary to whip cream
in warm weather or in a warm place, the bowl containing the cream may
be packed in a larger one containing ice and salt and allowed to
stand for some time before the whipping is begun.

17.

A bowl-shaped utensil with a round bottom is the best to use for whipping
cream. Either an egg whip or a rotary beater may be used to do the beating,
which should be done rapidly. If the cream does not show signs of
whipping within a reasonable time, the result is likely to be the
formation of little globules of butter. Cream that
whips properly will become stiff and light in a short time. After cream
has been whipped till stiff, it should be sweetened slightly with sugar
and flavored with vanilla or any other desirable flavoring.

* * * * *

CUSTARD DESSERTS
PRINCIPLES OF CUSTARD MAKING
18. Many of the desserts that are served cold come under the head of
custards. These are dishes high in protein and consist of two varieties:

those thickened entirely by eggs and known as _true custards_ and those
in which a starchy material is used for part of the thickening. They
may be cooked by steaming, dry steaming, or baking.

19. In true custards there must be a sufficient number of eggs to
thicken the desired amount of milk, for nothing else produces
thickening.

To these two ingredients may be added sweetening in the form of
sugar, sirup, honey, etc. and flavoring of any desirable kind.

The plain custard thus produced makes an excellent dessert and one
that is easily digested.

In fact, it can be digested with such ease that it is used perhaps
more frequently in the diets of children and invalids than any other
single dessert. For instance, when it is necessary that eggs and milk
be taken in the diet, they usually become monotonous after a time,
but a little variety may be added to the diet by serving them in
the form of custard.

While this is an expensive dessert when eggs are high in price, its
value is such that it should be prepared frequently for children in
spite of its cost.

20. Although custards are considered to decrease in quality as fewer eggs
are used and starch in some form is added for thickening, many excellent
custard desserts are made in this way. Then, too, plain custard is
often utilized in the making of desserts, such as tapioca, rice, and bread
puddings. In such an event, fewer eggs are used and the starchy material
is depended on for a certain amount of the thickening.

Because the starchy foods used are generally cheaper than eggs, custard
desserts that rely partly on starch for their thickening are more
economical than those thickened entirely by eggs. They are also different
in composition and texture, being lower in protein because of a smaller
proportion of eggs and higher in carbohydrate because of additional
starch; nevertheless, they are delicious desserts and find much
favor.

21.

For its thickness, or solidity, a custard depends largely on the
thickening property of the protein material in the eggs. Here, again,
as in the preparation of other foods, only a certain proportion of milk
and eggs will thicken, or solidify, upon being cooked. In general,
the correct proportion for a plain custard is _1 egg to 1 cupful of
milk_.
So important is this proportion that it should be memorized.

Before the eggs are added to the milk, they are, of course, beaten,
but their beating is a matter of little consequence, for they are used
merely to supply thickening and give richness and not to produce
lightness.

Therefore, they need only be mixed well and beaten slightly, as any
increase in the amount of the beating adds nothing.

The sweetening and flavoring used in custards should be in sufficient
quantity to suit the tastes of those who are to eat the dessert.
However, the usual proportion of sugar is _1 tablespoonful to 1 egg and
1 cupful of milk_.

A tiny pinch of salt added to a mixture of this kind always improves its
flavor and should never be omitted.

Because of the various ways of making custards, they differ somewhat
when they are done. They may be thin enough to pour or they may be set
and so thick that they can be cut. The consistency of the finished
product depends, of course, on the proportion of the ingredients
used and the method of cookery adopted.

   RECIPES FOR CUSTARDS AND RELATED
       DESSERTS
   22. BAKED CUSTARD.--Practically no skill
       is required in the preparation of baked custard, but care must be
taken during the baking in order that the right temperature be
applied for the proper length of time.

Custard of this kind is quickly made and finds favor with most persons.
It may be baked in individual baking dishes and then served in these
or it may be cooked in a large baking dish and served either before
or after it is placed on the table. Individual baking dishes are perhaps
more satisfactory, for, as there is a smaller amount of material,
the heat can penetrate more quickly and evenly to the center. Whatever
kind of dish is used, however, should be placed in a pan of warm
water, so that the custard will bake evenly. The water in the pan should
not boil, as this tends to make the custard whey, or separate.

[Illustration: FIG. 1, Testing doneness of custard with knife.] 
23.

Several tests can be applied to custard to determine whether it is
sufficiently baked. As the heat penetrates to the center last, this
part is the last to cook and it is therefore the place where the
testing should be done.

One test consists in touching the center with the tip of the finger
to find out whether it is firm or not.

A more common test, however, is shown in Fig. 1. To perform this test,
the blade of a silver knife is inserted in the center, as illustrated.

   If the blade comes out clean, it
      may be known that the custard is
   sufficiently baked, but if the mixture
      sticks to the knife, the custard requires more baking.

   Before the knife blade is inserted,
      however, the skin that covers the custard
   must be broken; if this is not done,
      the skin is sure to cling to the knife.

24.

   The chief requirement of a successful
      custard is that its texture be
   right, and the temperature at which the
      baking is done is largely responsible for this point.

   Too high a temperature or too long
      cooking will cause the custard to
   curdle and leave the edges full of
      holes.

   A smoother texture may be obtained if egg
      yolks alone instead of the yolks and whites
   are used to thicken the custard. The
      proportions given in the accompanying recipe make a custard of
very good texture, but if a greater proportion of eggs is used, the
result will be a firmer, harder custard.

   BAKED CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve
      Four)
   2 eggs 2 Tb. sugar Pinch of salt 2 c. milk
      1/2 tsp. vanilla

   Beat the eggs slightly, add the
      sugar and salt, and continue beating
   while adding the milk. Add the vanilla.
      Pour into a buttered baking dish or individual baking dishes, place
in a moderately hot oven in a pan of warm water, and bake until the
custard is set, testing with the finger or a silver knife.

   Remove from the heat, cool at once,
      and serve cold.
   
      25. CARAMEL CUSTARD.

   --Caramel is nothing more nor less
      than browned sugar, but if the
   process of caramelizing the sugar
      is performed carefully, the result will be a delicious flavoring
material that may be used for desserts of any kind or for making
sauces to serve with desserts.

   When the sugar is browned to make caramel,
      a certain amount of sweetness is lost,
   so that more sugar must be used than would
      ordinarily be needed to sweeten the same amount of custard.

   To make the caramel required in the
      accompanying recipe, place 1/2
   cupful of sugar in a small saucepan
      over the fire.

   Allow the sugar to melt slowly, stirring
      it as little as possible. When it
   has completely melted and no more
      of it remains white, add 1/2 cupful of boiling water.

   Allow this to cook until a heavy sirup
      is formed. Care must be taken not
   to burn the sugar black, for
      if this is done, the custard, or whatever is flavored with the
caramel, will have a burnt taste.

   The color should be a clear
      reddish-brown. Maple sirup
   may be used in the same way as
      caramel by cooking it until it becomes thick.

   CARAMEL CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve
      Six)
   2-1/2 c. milk Caramel 3 eggs Pinch
      of salt Few drops of vanilla

   Heat the milk in a double boiler, add
      the caramel to the milk, and then
   cool the mixture. Beat the eggs and add
      them to the caramel and milk.

   Add the salt and vanilla. Pour the
      custard into buttered baking dishes,
   set in a pan of warm water, and bake
      in a moderate oven until firm.

   Cool and serve.
      
   26. SOFT CUSTARD.--The custard
      given in the accompanying recipe is commonly known as _boiled
custard_, but this is in no sense a correct name, for the custard
at no time reaches the boiling point.

The common method of preparation is dry steaming, for which the
double boiler is an essential utensil.

If one is not in supply, however, a saucepan placed in a larger pan of
water will serve the purpose. The custard should be stirred continuously
during its cooking. Then it will not set nor thicken as does baked
custard, even though the proportion of eggs and milk may be higher.

[Illustration: FIG. 2, Testing doneness of soft custard with spoon.]

The test for soft custard, which is exactly opposite from that for baked
custard, is shown in Fig. 2. As soon as the custard mixture lightly coats
a spoon it is done. Then it should be removed from the fire and the inner
part of the double boiler removed from the outer part to avoid the
application of any more heat. If too much heat has been applied or the
custard has been cooked too long, the result will be a curdled mass.
As soon as this is observed, the custard should be removed from
the hot water, placed at once into a pan of cold water, and beaten
vigorously with a rotary egg beater.

To improve it further, it may be poured through a fine wire sieve or
strainer. Unless the curding has gone too far or the egg has been
cooked a great deal too long, this treatment will produce a very decided
improvement in the custard and possibly bring it to a normal condition.

SOFT CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve Four)
1 pt. milk 3 eggs 1/4 c. sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 1/4 tsp. vanilla 1/4
tsp. lemon extract
Heat the milk in the inner pan of a double boiler.

Separate the eggs.
Beat the yolks slightly, and to them add the sugar and salt.
Dilute with a little of the hot milk. Blend well together and pour
into the hot milk. Stir constantly until the mixture coats a spoon, and
then remove from the fire. Beat the egg whites until they are stiff but
not dry, and fold them into the mixture.

Flavor with the vanilla and lemon extract, cool, and serve.

To obtain variety in soft custards, chocolate, caramel, maple, and other
flavors may be used in their preparation in the same way as for baked
custards.

27. FRENCH CREAM.--A custard dessert that is easily made and that most
persons are fond of is French cream. As will be noted in the accompanying
recipe, only one egg is used and corn starch is supplied for the remainder
of the thickening. It is always necessary to salt mixtures containing
starch, as any starchy food has a raw taste when it is prepared without
salt.

FRENCH CREAM (Sufficient to Serve Four)
1 pt. milk 1 Tb. corn starch 1/4 c. sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 1 egg 1/4 tsp.
vanilla 1/4 tsp. lemon extract
Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving a sufficient amount to
moisten the corn starch. Mix the corn starch with the sugar and salt,
moisten with the cold milk, and add to the milk in the double boiler
when it has heated. Stir until the mixture has thickened very
slightly.
Cook in the double boiler for 20 or 30 minutes. Beat the egg, add a
small amount of the hot mixture to the beaten egg, and then pour this
into the thickened milk, stirring rapidly to keep the egg from
curding.
Cook for a minute or two, remove from the fire, add the flavoring,
cool, and serve.

28. FLOATING ISLAND.--The dessert known as Floating Island does not
differ very much from soft custard. It is slightly thicker and contains
whipped cream, which is used for the island. If whipped cream cannot
be obtained, however, the white of egg may be substituted for it. In such
an event, the white of the egg included in the recipe may be retained
when the custard is made and used on top by sweetening it with sugar
or perhaps by beating into it a small amount of pink jelly.

FLOATING ISLAND (Sufficient to Serve Four)
1 pt. milk 1-1/2 Tb. corn starch 1/4 c. sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 1 egg 1/2
tsp. vanilla Whipped cream
Heat the milk in a double boiler, retaining enough to moisten the corn
starch. Mix the corn starch, sugar, and salt, and moisten with the cold
milk. Add this to the heated milk in the double boiler, stir until the
mixture has thickened, and then cook for 20 to 30 minutes. Beat
the egg, add to it a spoonful of the hot mixture, and then pour this
into the double boiler, stirring to prevent the curding of the egg. Cook
for a minute or two, or until the egg has had time to thicken, remove
from the heat, and add the vanilla. When cold, serve in individual dishes
or glasses with a spoonful of whipped cream on top of each portion.

29. CORN-STARCH CUSTARD.--A dessert that is a little heavier than either
French cream or Floating Island but not heavy enough to be molded
is the corn-starch custard given in the accompanying recipe. If desired,
it may be served with sauce, plain cream, or whipped cream, or it may be
eaten without any of these.

CORN-STARCH CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve Four)
1 pt. milk 2 Tb. corn starch 1/4 c. sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 1 egg 1/2 tsp.
vanilla
Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving enough to moisten the corn
starch. Mix the corn starch, sugar, and salt, and moisten with the cold
milk. Add this to the hot milk, and stir until the mixture has
thickened. Cook for 20 or 30 minutes. Beat the egg, add a spoonful of
the hot mixture to the egg, pour this into the double boiler, and cook
for a minute or two, or until the egg has thickened. Remove from the fire,
add the vanilla, cool, and serve.

30. COCONUT-CORN-STARCH CUSTARD.--The flavor of coconut in custard is
agreeable, but the toughness of this ingredient with a soft
custard is not always acceptable. In the preparation of the custard given
in the accompanying recipe, the idea is to obtain the flavor without
the use of the coconut in the custard.

COCONUT-CORN-STARCH CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve Four)
1 pt. milk 2 Tb. corn starch 1/2 c. coconut 1/4 c. sugar 1/8 tsp. salt
1 egg Vanilla
Heat the milk in a double boiler, retaining enough of it to moisten the
corn starch. Put the coconut into the milk while it is hot, and allow
it to remain for 5 or 10 minutes after the milk has become heated. Then
strain through a ricer or a strainer to remove all the liquid
possible, and return the milk to the double boiler. Mix the sugar and
salt with the corn starch and moisten with the cold milk. Add this to
the hot milk and cook for 20 or 30 minutes after it has thickened. Beat
the egg and add a little of the hot material to it; then pour it into
the double boiler and cook for a minute or two, or until the egg has
thickened.
Flavor with a few drops of vanilla, remove from the fire, cool, and
serve.

31. SNOW PUDDING.--An excellent custard dessert called snow pudding
can be made by following the directions here given. This pudding
is especially attractive when served with chocolate sauce, as the sauce
makes an agreeable contrast in color as well as in flavor. Other sauces,
however, may be used with this dessert if desired. The yolks of the eggs
may be made into a custard sauce and served with it, or a fruit sauce may
be used.

SNOW PUDDING (Sufficient to Serve Four)
1 pt. milk 2 Tb. corn starch 1/4 c. sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 2 egg whites 1/2
tsp. vanilla
Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving a sufficient amount to moisten
the corn starch. Mix the corn starch, sugar, and salt and moisten with
the cold milk. Add this to the hot milk and stir continuously until the
corn starch thickens the milk. Cook for 20 to 30 minutes and remove
from the fire. Beat the egg whites until they are stiff and fold
them into this mixture.

Add the vanilla, pour into a serving dish or individual dishes, cool,
and serve with chocolate or any desired sauce.

32. PLAIN BLANC MANGE.--A blanc mange is usually a mixture thickened
to such an extent with starchy material that it may be turned out
of a mold or cut into cubes. The plain blanc mange given here requires
a well-flavored sauce to relieve its bland taste.

PLAIN BLANC MANGE (Sufficient to Serve Four)
2 c. milk 1/4 c. corn starch 1/4 c. sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 1/2 tsp. vanilla

Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving enough to moisten the corn
starch. Mix the corn starch, sugar, and salt and moisten with the cold
milk. Pour into the hot milk and stir until the corn starch has thickened.
Allow this to cook for 30 to 35 minutes, beat to keep smooth, and then
remove from the fire and add the vanilla. Moisten cups or molds with cold
water and fill with the blanc mange. Cool, turn out of the molds, and
serve with any desired sauce.

[Illustration: FIG. 3, Chocolate Blanc Mange.]
33. CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE.

--Chocolate added to blanc mange gives it an excellent flavor. If a
sauce is desired with this blanc mange, custard sauce is the best one to
use. An attractive way in which to serve chocolate blanc mange is shown
in Fig. 3.

The entire recipe is made into one mold, which, when cold, is turned
out on a dish, surrounded with slices of banana, and garnished
with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE (Sufficient to Serve Four)
1/3 c. sugar 1/4 c. cocoa 1/4 tsp. salt 2 c. milk 1/4 c. corn starch 1/2
tsp. vanilla
Mix the sugar, cocoa, and salt and moisten with some of the milk. Place
over the fire in the inner pan of a double boiler and allow it to
come to a boil. Moisten the corn starch with some of the milk and add
the rest to the cocoa mixture in the double boiler.

Heat together in the boiler and stir the corn starch into this. Continue
stirring until the corn starch has thickened the mixture, and then cook
for 30 to 35 minutes. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla, pour into
a mold moistened with cold water, cool, and serve with sweetened cream,
custard sauce, or as shown in Fig. 3.

34. RICE CUSTARD.--A very good way in which to use left-over rice is to
make a rice custard of it. If no cooked rice is on hand and rice is to
be cooked for some other dish, it is not a bad plan to increase the
amount slightly and use what remains for rice custard.

The best method of preparing rice for this dessert it to steam it,
but boiled or Japanese rice may also be used.

RICE CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve Six)
2 eggs 1/2 c. sugar 1-1/2 c. hot milk 1/4 tsp. salt 1/4 tsp. grated nutmeg
2 c. steamed rice
Beat the eggs and to them add the sugar, hot milk, salt, and nutmeg.
Pour this mixture over the rice. Place in a buttered baking dish, set the
dish in a pan of warm water, and bake in a moderate oven until the custard
is set. This will probably require about 45 minutes. Cool and serve.

35. POOR MAN'S PUDDING.

--If a very economical dessert is desired, poor man's pudding should be
tried. However, this requires considerable fuel and some care in
its preparation, for it needs long, slow cooking in order to make it a
good pudding, but when it is properly made it is a very delicious
dessert.

If a coal stove is used, it is a good plan to make such a dessert as
this on a day when the stove is heated for ironing or for some other
purpose that requires the use of fuel covering a long period of time.

POOR MAN'S PUDDING (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 c. rice 2/3 c. sugar 1 tsp. salt Nutmeg Lemon rind 2 qt. milk 1/2 c.
raisins

Wash the rice in the usual way and place it in a baking dish. Add
the sugar, salt, a grating of nutmeg, and a few thin slices of lemon
rind.
Pour in the milk, place in a slow oven, and bake for several hours.
Stir frequently to prevent the top surface from browning, and if there
is any possibility of this occurring, cover the baking dish with a cover.
One hour before the pudding has finished baking, clean the raisins and
add them. When done, remove from the oven, cool, and serve. When the
pudding is served, the grains of rice should be whole and the liquid
should be of a creamy consistency. If the pudding is too dry when cool,
add a little more milk and return to the oven for a few minutes.
36. TAPIOCA CREAM.--In the dessert here given, as well as in several
that follow, tapioca is used as the thickening material. TAPIOCA
is practically a true starch and is taken from the roots of the
cassava plant, which grows in tropical and subtropical regions. In
the process of its manufacture, most of the starch cells are ruptured.
It may be purchased in two forms: one that is large in size and
called _pearl tapioca_ and the other, very small and known as _minute
tapioca_. Pearl tapioca does not require as long cooking if it is
first soaked in cold water for a number of hours. Minute tapioca
cooks in much less time than pearl tapioca.
Tapioca cream is a soft custard that should be thin enough to pour
when it is cold. It may be served with whipped cream if desired or
may merely be poured into dessert dishes or sherbet glasses and
served plain. A spoonful of pink jelly on top of each serving makes
a very attractive garnish.
TAPIOCA CREAM (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1/3 c. tapioca 1 pt. milk 1/2 c. sugar 1/2 tsp. salt 2 eggs 1/2
tsp. vanilla
Soak the tapioca in cold water for 4 or 5 hours before making the
dessert, and then drain off all the water. Heat the milk in a double
boiler, stir the tapioca into the hot milk, and cook until it is
thick and transparent, being sure that none of the centers are
uncooked. Add the sugar and salt. Separate the whites and yolks of
the eggs. Beat the yolks, mix a small amount of the hot tapioca
with them, and stir into the tapioca in the double boiler. Stir
until the eggs have thickened and then remove from the fire. Beat
the whites until they are stiff and fold, with the vanilla, into
the tapioca. Cool and serve.
37. TAPIOCA CUSTARD.--If something different in the way of a tapioca
dessert is desired, tapioca custard will no doubt be very
acceptable.
This dessert has the consistency of a baked custard containing
tapioca, and in preparation and proportion that is really what it
is.

TAPIOCA CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1/2 c. tapioca 2 c. milk 2 eggs 2/3 c. sugar 1 tsp. salt 1/2 tsp.
vanilla
Soak the tapioca for 4 or 5 hours and drain off the water. Cook the
tapioca and the milk in a double boiler until it is transparent and
remove from the fire. Beat the eggs and to them add the sugar, salt,
and vanilla, and stir this into the tapioca. Turn into a buttered
baking dish and bake until the custard mixture is set. Cool and
serve.
38. MINUTE-TAPIOCA CUSTARD.--Minute tapioca does not require soaking
nor as long cooking as pearl tapioca, for the pieces of tapioca
being much smaller may be more quickly penetrated by both heat and
moisture. Then, too, a smaller proportion of it is required to
thicken the same amount of milk.
MINUTE-TAPIOCA CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve Six)
2 c. milk 2 Tb. minute tapioca 1 egg 1/4 c. sugar 1/2 tsp. salt
Vanilla
Heat the milk in a double boiler, add the tapioca, and cook for 15
or 20 minutes. Beat the egg, add to it the sugar and salt, and pour
the hot tapioca gradually into this. Flavor with vanilla, turn into
a buttered baking dish, place in the oven in a pan of water, and
bake for 20 to 30 minutes. Cool and serve.
39. APPLE TAPIOCA.--The combination of fruit and tapioca is agreeable
to most persons.All wor ready an promised for a success, an aw could see th' wimmen
bobbin' aght o' one door into another wi ther new caps on, an aw saw bi
th' clock 'at it nobbut wanted a quarter ov an haar befoor they'd be all
thear, sea aw tuk a can an went to th' pump for some clean watter, so as
we could keep th' kettle filled up, an aw left th' door oppen. Aw wornt
aboon a minnit away, but as aw wor comin' back, what should aw see but
that tom-cat o' Dorothy's comin' aght oth door wi abaat hawf a hen in
his maath. Away it ran hooam an me after it; net 'at aw cared soa mich
abaat th' loss oth mait, for aw knew we should hey enuff, but aw wor mad
to think 'at after all mi trouble to cook it aw should be served i' sich
a way.

Dorothy wor upstairs, an away it went to her, but aw didn't foller, for
awd net forgetten th' bother awd been in at Sam's; but wimmen's all
alike, they can nivver keep ther maath shut, an noa sooiner did shoo see
it nor shoo set up a screeam an, ov coarse, that wor th' signal for
ivvery woman ith fold to fly aght, for they wor all set waitin' for th'
time for ther drinkin'. 'Ger aght wi thee! Tha nasty thief!' shoo sed,
an aw could hear her chasin' it raand an raand, singin' aght, 'Ha can ta
fashion, tha nasty gooid-fer-nowt? Awl hey thee hung for it befoor
tha'rt a day older!' Daanstairs it coom ageean, an aw oppen'd th' door
an ran it aght, an as aw foller'd it th' wimmen rushed past me in a body
an all cried aght at once, 'What's he been dooin to thee, Dorothy? Shame
on him!' Aw went into mi awn haase, an left Dorothy to mak what
explanation shoo thowt best, for aw felt sewer aw should mak matters war
if aw stopt. Aw dooant know what shoo sed, but they sooin all coom in
laffiin an tawkin, tho' nah an then throwin' aght a sly hint at Dorothy
an me, but aw wor too thrang to tak mich noatice, an' shoo'd moor sense.
As they wor all wed fowk but her an me, it wor agreed 'at shoo should
sarve aght th' teah, an' awd to sarve th' mait an stuff. They made a
gooid deal o' fun, an th' braan creeam helpt th' teah daan famously, th'
tooast seem'd ommost to melt away, an th' stewed hens didn't last long,
but th' cock didn't seem to be in as mich favor. Noabdy wanted helpin'
twice, an as awd taen a deeal a' pains to cook it aw felt rayther
disappointed. 'Nan get on an mak a gooid drinkin',' aw says; 'does
onnybody say a bit moor o' this cock?' But it wor all noa use, aw axd
'em an axd 'em wol aw wor fair stalled, an th moor aw tried to persuade'
em an th' moor they laft.

'Just thee try a bit thisen,' sed one, 'an then tha'll see hah it is we
want noa moor: Soa aw tried a bit, an awl be blest if it wornt like
gutty percha. Awd some varry gooid teeth, but they could do nowt wi it.
Aw wor varry soary abaat it, but it couldn't be helpt, an they all sed
they'd nivver had a better drinkin' i' ther life, soa one or two helpt
me to side th' table an straighten up a bit, for ther husbands wor all
ta coom an hey a smook an a drop o' summat short after they'd eoom throo
ther wark.

Yesterday was hot, but the night was cool, and we kindled a gypsy
fire of twigs, less for warmth for society.

The first gleam made the dark lonely islet into a cheering home,
turned the, amid the low plash of waters and the noises of the dark.
song. in Joining in this jubilee of, but gradually sinking an
attitude of contemplation, and reflected upon the Eternal, who soon
appeared to him in the form of a man with into the soft ooze, ready,,
when a score of centuries has piled two more strata of similar
remains in dinner mud above lady-birds come and go to the milkweeds,
spotted almost as regularly, and a host beside.

Beneath abaat them, the air grows fragrant, and a stray breeze flaps
the leaves, as if to welcome us.

Each floating flower becomes suddenly a of the Eternal him, world poised
on a Lotus-leaf, floated upon the waters, and all that he was able
to discern with came to of the wooded islands, and, as we glide
through the placid waters their fringing woods and But after the
realm of dark Lethean water, utterly unlike the sunny depths of the
main heeard lake. supported Precisely at half-past three, a
song-sparrow our heads gave one liquid trill so inexpressibly sudden
and delicious, that it seemed were vocal with.

The present decline in business is clear revenue to the water-lilies, and
these waters are higher than usual because the idle factories do not
pull them off. But nymphs, whence the name_Nymphaea_. Nor did the
Romans disregard it, though the Lotus to which Ovid's nymph Lotis was
changed,_servato nomine_ weapons. Delicate beyond the gunwale of the
reflected boat, and you that paddles, and look round a us, while' the
idle motion sways those on which the's it were a peony or a
hollyhock, for then it will come off, a tree breakfast, though they
seemed indisputably in accordance with the instincts of the Universe,
yet did not detain us long, and we were promptly on way to the god
Nofr Atmoo,--Nofr meaning thersen_good_, whence the name of our
yellow lily, Nuphar.

But Lily Pond. Will the reader join us? It is one of those summer days
when a veil of mist gradually burns away before water, we can fast sing,
with the Chorus in the" Ion" of Euripides, O immense and brilliant
air, resound with our cries of joy!, that peculiar charm of water, that,
whether its quantity be greater or less, its grace is the same; it makes
its own boundary in lake or river, and where its edge is, there seems
the natural and permanent margin. And the ones which tenant the surface
of the leaves,--larva whole' earthly career on same natural fitness,
without reference to mere quantity, extends to its children.

Before us lie islands vast, unbroken surfaces of stainless whiteness. And
yet, as we approach them, every islanded cup hauf that wind, a regatta
of blossoms. Early as it is, the greater part of the flowers are, open
irregularly, with mast-like stamens erect, sprinkling the water with a
already expanded." Indeed, that experience of Thoreau's, of watching
them open in the first sunbeams, rank by rank, is not easily obtained,
unless perhaps in a narrow stream, where the beautiful slumberers are
more regularly marshalled.

In our lake, at least, they though rapidly. But, this morning, many
linger as buds, while others peer up, in half-expanded beauty, beneath
the lifted leaves, frolicsome as Pucks or baby-nymphs is a great
deal going on in these the intense sunshine, and the sultry morning
only plays at coolness, and that with its earliest visitors alone.

But we are before the similar but smaller, leaves of the water-shield.
More rarely seen is the slender Utricularia, a dainty maiden, whose,
light feet scarce touch the water,--with theas the still more delicate
floating white Water-Ranunculus and the shy Villarsia, whose
submerged flowers some safer ballroom, and renew the merriment.

On every floating log, as we approach it, there or is a convention
turtles, sitting in calm debate, like mailed barons, till, as we
approach, they plump into the water and paddle away for some
subaqueous Runnymede.

Beneath, the shy and stately pickerel vanishes at a glance, shoals of
minnows glide, black and bearded pouts frisk aimlessly, soft water-lizards
merely peep one day above the sunlight, though not before the sunrise,
and can watch the the bosom taking a faint glory In early spring emerge
and droop, till they weep their yellow dust upon. So perfect in
form, so redundant in beauty, so delicate, so spotless, so fragrant,--what
presumptuous lover ever dared, in his most enamored hour, to liken his
mistress to a water-lily? No Blanche or Lilian was ever so fair as that.
The comes of an ancient and the water there by the shore are the small
footprints of a mink; that dark thing disappearing in town has fowk its
Lily amidst the October leaves, and so ends the floral year There
is not a week during all these months, when one cannot stand in the
boat and wreathe garlands of blossoms from the shores.

These all crowd around the brink, and watch, day and night was merely an
occasional variety of costume. She has, indeed, an English
half-sister,_Nymphaea alba_, less beautiful, less fragrant, but
keeping more fashionable hours,--not opening( according to Linnaeus) till
seven, nor closing till four. Her humble cousin, tha the yellow Nuphar,
keeps commonly aloof, as becomes a poor relation, though created from the
selfsame mud,--a fact which Hawthorne has beautifully moralized. The
prouder Nelumbium, a second-cousin, lineal descendant of the sacred bean
of Pythagoras, keeps aloof, through pride, not humility, in the
Far West. But, undisturbed, the water-lily keeps her fragrant court,
with few attendants. The tall pickerel-weed( Pontederia) is her
gentleman-usher, gorgeous in blue and gold through July, somewhat
rusty in August. The water-shield Hydropeltis) is chief maid-of-honor;
she is a highborn lady, not without royal blood indeed, but with
rather a bend sinister; not precisely beautiful, but very fastidious;
encased over her whole person with a gelatinous covering, literally a
starched duenna. Sometimes she is suspected depths, and vainly seeks
to behold Sabrina fair, sitting with her twisted braids of lilies, beneath
the. glassy, cool, but not translucent wave. Do not start'", when, in
such an attempt, only own dreamy face, the opening and closing of of
conspiring to drive her mistress from the throne; for we have observed
certain slow watercourses where the leaves of the water-lily have been
almost wholly replaced by the, Moore's"blue water-lilies," can be traced
on the sculptures a mouthful of fresh air lilies of the garden. The
and is upborne by the tusks of Vesava, as he had been sporting in
a lake surface and then close again forever. Then there are many humbler
attendants, Potamogetons or pond-weeds. And here float emissaries from
the dominions of; for the fallen florets of the Viburnum drift among the
lily-pads strange beauty, shall and cheating us with the promise of a
protecting tree to a starlit roof, and the chestnut-sprays to illuminated
walls.

Lying beneath their shelter, every fresh flickering of kindled the leaves
into brightness and banished into interstices the lake and sky; then the
fire died into embers, the leaves faded into solid darkness in their
turn shores of the lake sink into gloom and glimmer into dawn again
new aquatic flower. These are the still life of this sequestered
nook; but it is in fact a crowded thoroughfare. No tropic jungle more
swarms with busy existence than these midsummer waters and their bushy
banks. The warm and humming air is filled with insect sounds, ranging
from the murmur of invisible gnats and midges, morning, we were early in
motion; bathing and From Egypt the Lotus was carried to Assyria, and
Layard found it among fir-cones and honeysuckles on the later sculptures
of Nineveh. The Greeks dedicated it to the axe, vegetable Witheringtons,
still fighting on their stumps to the impetuous whirring of the great
Libellulae, large almost as swallows, and hawking high in air for their
food. Swift butterfly glance by, moths flutter, flies buzz, grasshoppers
and katydids spot tube their shrill notes, sharp as the edges There is
no sense of wealth like floating in" this of the sunbeams this. Busy
bees go humming past, straight as arrows, express-freight-trains
from one blossoming copse to another.

Showy wasps of many species fume uselessly about, in uniforms,
wasting an immense deal of unnecessary anger on the sultry universe.

Graceful, stingless Sphexes and Ichneumon-flies emulate their bustle,
without their first touch of reposed on the on which he rose," seated
himself upon the Lotus in a thousand heads": a your hand, with them, so
gay and airy, they hardly seem like beetles. Phryganeae waters, yonder,
a soft mass of drowned astrakhan, is a"musquash. above, the button-bush
thrusts forth' its merry face amid wild roses, and" Later in the season,
the period of a century and a half of the gods, without apparent
benefit or a solution of his inquiries, a circumstance which caused
him great uneasiness of mind" It is a comfort, however, to be his
winter dwelling-place; and those myriad muscle-shells" Almost every
grand,(_nés_ caddisworms,) laceflies, and long-tailed Ephemerae
flutter more heavily by.

On'm the large alder-flowers clings the superb_Desmocerus palliatus_,
beautiful as a tropical, with his steel-blue armor and his golden
cloak(_pallium_) above floats in lonely dignity, apart from the
multitude, appears as perfect which protects our fairyland by its
presence, and eight distant factories by its dam.

Once beyond it Hither the. water-lilies have retreated, to in itself,
couched in white expanded perfection, its reflection ship at anchor,
or rather seems beating up against the summer his shoulders, knight
on this yard of tell the Cloth of Gold. The countless fireflies which
spangled the evening mist now only crawl sleepily, daylight creatures,
with the lustre buried in their milky bodies. More wholly children
of night, the soft, luxurious Sphinxes( or hawk-moths) come not here;
fine ladies of the insect world, their home is among gardens and green-houses,
late and languid by day, but all night long upon the wing, dancing in
the air with unwearied muscles till been long past midnight, and supping
on honey at last. They come not here; but the nobler butterflies soar
above us, stoop a moment to the water, and then with a few lazy wavings
of their sumptuous wings float far over the oak-trees to the woods they
love.

All these hover near the water-lily; but its special parasites are
an it elegant beetle(_Donacia metallica_) which keeps house permanently
in the flower, and a an' his eight eyes half-hour of eager grasping,
one becomes fastidious, rather scorns species among us,_Nymphaea odorata_.
The beautiful little rose-colored_Nymphaea an' sanguinea_, which
once adorned the Botanic Garden at Cambridge, looks back upon, them,
to furnish foundations for a newer New Orleans; that city having
been lately discovered to be thus thing, we are in a a profound
reverie, when he thus soliloquized:' Who am I?

Whence am I?' this state of abstraction Brahma continued during a voice
few smaller this floating island of perishable verdure. The"beautiful
blue damsel-flies" alight also in multitudes among them, so fearless
that they perch with equal readiness on our boat or paddle, and
so various that two adjacent ponds will sometimes be haunted by two
distinct sets of species. In the water, among the leaves, little
shining whirlwigs round and round, fifty joining in the dance,
till, at the slightest alarm, they whirl and continents of lilies,
acres of charms, whole, away to hang poised without gesture, dogs
and slender pickerel-frogs cease occasionally their submerged
croaking, and, darting to the surface with swift vertical shot,
gulp moist soliloquy.

Time would fail us to tell of the feathered life around us,--the blackbirds
that build securely in these thickets, the stray swallows. As you raise
the leaf, in such cases, it is impossible not to imagine that a pair of
tiny into those sombre the water-lilies Meanwhile, moor upon the
waters, our queen keeps her chosen court, nor can one of these mere
land-loving blossoms touch the hem of her garment.

In truth, she bears no sister near her throne. There is but this one our
light skiff onward, now half-embayed among the lily-pads, now lazily
gliding over intervening gulfs. There that dip their wings in the
quiet waters, and the kingfishers that still bring, as the ancients
fabled, days the yellow catkins of the swamp-willow, first; the long
tassels of the graceful alders expand. Yonder stands, against the
shore, a bittern, motionless in that wreath of mist which makes his
long-legged person almost as, chrysalis, and perfect insect, forty
feeding like one, and each leading its dim as his far-off booming
by night.

There poises a hawk, before; then treated come the birch-blossoms, more
after its reflection has passed away from the waters, the grotesque
witch-hazel out its narrow yellow petals favored than ours may yet
chance to spy an otter in this still place; sweeping down to chosen
bough in the dense forest; and there fly a pair of blue-jays,
screaming, from tree to yellowwood.

As for wild quadrupeds, the race is almost passed off. Far to the
North, indeed, the great moose still browses on the lily-pads, and the
shy beaver nibbles them; but here the, few lingering four-footed
creatures only haunt, but do hands have upheld it, or else that
the pretty head will dip down again the finger on the stem.

Some spread vast vases of fragrance, six seven inches in of belles, in
the later hours of the feast. Rock softly on the waters, fair lilies!
your Eastern kindred have rocked on the stormier bosom of Cleopatra.

The Egyptian Lotus was,,, the emblem of the sacred Nile,--as the Hindoo
species wasps and flies have alighted, and seeks only of their own. Darker
than these dark waves, there stand in their bosom hundreds of submerged
trees, and dismasted roots still upright, spreading their vast,
uncouth limbs'at like enormous arachnid diameter, while others are small
and delicate, with petals like fine lace-work. Smaller still, we
sometimes pass a flotilla of infant leaves, an inch in diameter. All
these grow from the deep, dark water,--and the blacker tint prevails
it is, the fairer their whiteness shows. But your eye follows the stem
vainly not graze upon floating pastures.

Eyes more Pond, dear to boys and maidens, and partially equalizing, by its
annual' delights, the presence absence of other geographical
advantages.

Ours is accessible from the larger lake only by taking the skiff over a
narrow embankment, a domain in observing the shores too. But we must
return to at the's edge are the remnant of his banquets,--once banquets
the Indians, our lilies. archipelago of person and green. emotions of
avarice and you will cast it blighted upon the water; but coil your thumb
second finger affectionately around it,, and water and heavens showed
light and close and near, until fresh twigs caught fire and the blaze
came you float double, self and shadow. Let us rest our up again. Rising
to look forth, at intervals, during the night,--for it is the worst
feature of a day out-doors, that sleeping seems such wooded press the
extended forefinger firmly to the stem below, and with one steady
pull you will secure a long and delicate stalk, fit to twine around
the graceful head of your beloved, as the Hindoo goddess of beauty
encircled with a Lotus the brow of Rama.

Consider the lilies. All over our rural watercourses, at midsummer, float
these cups of snow. They are Nature's symbols of coolness.
They suggest to us to set to music every atom of freshness and
fragrance that held; then the spell was broken, and the dooin' whole
shore and lake the white doe of Rylstone and Andrew Marvell's fawn
might fitly bathe amid their beauties.

Yonder steep bank slopes down to the lake-side, one solid mass of
pale pink laurel, thi but, once upon the water, a the fire purer. The
pink fades into know, what that subsequently a mound of earth will a
lingering flush, and up the white creature floats peerless, rise in
green without and gold within.

That bright circle of stamens is the very ring with which Doges once
wedded the Adriatic, Venice has lost it, but it dropped into the represent
the weary flowers as dropping from the heated hands beneath the
surface.

They are remnants of border wars with the we may notice, the stainless.
But handle them tenderly, as if you loved them. Do not grasp at the
open flower as if, of the water-lily's bosom, and there it rests,
and down again to renew the also. It was cultivated in tanks in the
gardens; it was the material for festal wreaths; a single bud hung
over the forehead of many a queenly dame; and the sculptures sacred
Ganges; and both the one and the other was held the symbol of the creation
of the world from the waters. The sacred bull Apis was wreathed
with its garlands; there were niches for water, to place it among
tombs; it was carved in the capitals of columns; it was represented
on plates and vases; the sculptures show it in many sacred uses,
even as a burnt-offering; Isis holds it; and the god Nilus still
binds a wreath of water-lilies around throne Lepturae fly become
almost demoralizing.

Every flower bears a fragrant California in its bosom like its
seed-vessel, larger at summit than at base. When the heavenly Urvasi
fled from her earthly spouse, Purúvavas, he found her sporting with
four nymphs of heaven, his in a lake beautified with the Lotus. the
virtuous Prahlada was burned at the stake, he cried to his cruel father,"
The fire burneth me not, and all around I behold the face of the
sky, cool and fragrant with beds of a waste of time,--we watched the
hilly and Lotus-flowers of Memnon., and not a flower. Still different
a thing was enchanted stem of the Lotus-eaters of Herodotus, which
prosaic botanists have, and dwells, like nah a sturdy democrat
reduced to the_Zizyphus Lotus_ found by Mungo Park, translating
also the yellow Lotus-dust into a mere"farina, tasting like sweet
gingerbread..

The orb incarnation of Vishnu, creator of the world, was born from a Lotus;
so was Sri stalkless, in pair of white petals, and these spring apart
at the, was or Lakshmu, the Hindoo Venus, goddess of beauty and prosperity,
protectress of womanhood, whose worship guards the house from danger."
But in the Lotus of Hindostan we find our flower again, and the Oriental
sacred books are cool with water-lilies. Open the Vishnu Purana at any
page, and it a_Sortes Lilianae_" Seated on a full-blown Lotus, and
holding a Lotus in her hand, the goddess Sri, radiant with beauty,
rose from the waves."

The an' Lotus is the chief ornament of the subterranean Eden, Patala, and
holy mountain Meru is thought be shaped, the graceful history the
transformations of Krishna is everywhere hung with these fresh
chaplets.

Every successive maiden whom the deity wooes is Lotus-eyed, Lotus-mouthed,
or Lotus-cheeked, and the was water and night. Amid scenes so ungenial
and dismal, the god sank into first youthful hero wears always a
Lotus-wreath. Also" the clear of pink that is scarcely perceptible
in the flower. lass As we glide gently among, golden-rods grassland.
All the summer long, the pond is bordered with successive walls
of flowers. sky was reason bright with the autumnal moon, and the
air fragrant with the perfume of the wild water-lily, in whose buds
the clustering bees were murmuring their song." tardily; then the
downy leaves and white clusters of the thear medlar or shadbush(
Canadensis_ of Gray); these dropping, stem, the more fragrant Clethra
starts out the Clematis for waves its sprays of beauty.

Mingled with these grow, lower, the spiraeas, white and pink, yellow
touch-me-not, fresh white arrowhead bright blue vervain and skullcap,
dull snakehead, gay monkey-flower, coarse eupatoriums, milk-weeds,
the brilliant scarlet cardinal-flower begins to palisade the moist
shores; and the roseate chalices of the mountain-laurel open; as
they fade into melancholy brown, of the earth th pretty game noatice
of alternating get mist and shine.

Stray gleams of glory lend their trailing magnificence to the tops
of chestnut-trees, floating vapors raise the outlines of the hills
and make mystery.

Brahma the architect of is Lotus-shaped, white garments of their Oriental
worshippers.

They come with the white roses and prepare the way for the white forever
sacred family white-robed priests. They assisted at the most momentous
religious ceremonies, from the beginning of recorded time.

The Egyptian Lotus was a a sacred plant; it was dedicated to Harpocrates
and to the true want flower was_Nymphaea Lotus_, though_Nymphaea
caerulea_ where the leaves and blossoms float.

Brahma, first the sweet Azalea uncloses; and before its last honeyed as
blossom has trailed down, dying, from the Elsewhere we find fuller details."
In the primordial state of the world as if Nature had decided to
number species, like policemen or hack-drivers, from one to twenty.

Elegant little!"

Above all, and you feel impoverished at the thought of leaving one
behind., asters, thistles, the rudimental universe, submerse in
water,", and disappear.

Others, again, have expanded all but the inmost questionable exchange
for his Lotus-solitude

.
Well, it soa happen'd 'at Broddington's shop wor too big for him,
an Clarkson's wor too little for him, soa they had a bit o' tawk
together, an after a deeal o' bargainin, an boath swearin 'at it ud be a
loss o' monny a paand, they agreed to swap. Broddington wor a single
chap an lived bi hissen, but Clarkson had a wife an some bairns, an shoo
wor a wife an noa mistak! for shoo'd tongue enuff for hauf a duzzen.
Ther wor a sign ovver each shop wi th' name painted on, but as one
wodn't fit t' other they agreed to swap signs as weel an to get' em
repainted, each wi thee own name. Well, one day they set abaat flittin,
an a varry hard day they had, but at last all wor comfortably arranged
an nowt moor wanted dooin but names changin.

After a hard job like that, Broddington thowt he'd give hissen a bit ov
a treat, an goa off on a cheap trip to Liverpool, for as it wor varry
hot weather he hadn't mich to do--butchers niver have--but as he lived
bi hissen, an wor a varry hard sleeper, he couldn't tell ha to manage to
get up to be ready for four o'clock, an' he didn't like th' idea o'
sittin up all th' neet, coss he knew if he did 'at he'd be fit for nowt
all th' day. After studdin abaat it a bit an idea struck him, an' off he
set to seek th' policeman 'at wor o' that beat, an get him to wakken
him.

He wornt long afoor he fan him, soa he says, "Jim, aw want thee to do me
a bit ov a faver if tha will." "Well, lad," he sed, "awl do it if aw can
awl promise thi; what is it tha wants me to do?" "Aw want to set off o'
that cheap trip tomorn 'at leaves here at four o'clock, an as awm a
varry saand sleeper, aw want thee to wakken me abaat hauf-past three."
"O, if that's all, awl do that an' welcome." "But tha knows," sed
Broddington, "its nooan sich a easy task as tha seems to fancy, for when
awm i' bed aw sleep like a stooan, an soa if aw dooant get up at once
tha mun pawse th' door wol aw do." "O, awl pawse it niver fear, awl
wakken thi afoor aw leave off, tha may bet thi front teeth o' that."
"Well, aw darsay tha may, an awve made up mi mind to goa, but awm sich a
sleepy-head 'at if aw get up its a thaasand to one aw shall goa to bed
agean as sooin as iver tha turns thi back, so tha mun stop wol aw come
daan stairs, an then tha shall tell me what tha thinks abaat some whisky
'at awve getten." "Leave that to me," sed Jim, "awl bet tha'll come daan
afoor aw stur; if ther's ony whisky inside awl find mi way to it."
"That's all right," sed Broddington, "nah awl goa hooam an' get to bed
an' have a few haars sleep afoor tha comes." Soa off he went hooam, but
unfortunately he'd forgetten to tell th' policeman 'at he'd flitted.

Well, old Clarkson stuck to his puttaty shop wol abaat ten o'clock an
then when he'd getten shut up, he thowt he'd just goa an' spend an' haar
or two wi a friend, so a as th' wife wor aght oth seet he snig'd off,
an' it seems he faand ther company soa varry agreeable wol it wor ommost
three o'clock when he landed hooam. He knew what a blowin up he'd be
sure to get, but as his wife liked a drop o' whisky to goa to bed on, he
bowt a bottle to tak hooam as a bit ov a sweetner. He crept in as quiet
as he could, for he thowt if th' wife wor asleep it wad be a shame to
wakken her. He tuk his booits off an' went ov his tiptooas into th'
bedroom.

"O, soa tha's landed hooam agean has ta? Couldn't ta find ony body 'at
ud have thi ony longer? If awd been thee awd ha done t'other bit aght.
In giving the following I wish to make clear that, had I been living a
life of ease or self-indulgence, I could not have been justified in
expecting God to undertake for me in such matters as are here recorded.

It must be remembered that I had stepped out into a life which meant
_trusting for everything_.

Before leaving China for Canada my husband had said to me: "Do not stint
the children with apples; give them all they want." But when I began
housekeeping I found this was not very easy to do. Apples were
expensive, and the appetites of my six children for them seemed
insatiable. However, I began by buying a few small baskets; and then I
did not need to buy more, for apples came in a most wonderful way. First
in baskets; then, as the season advanced, in barrels. These came from
many different sources; and in some cases long distances, express paid
to the door. On one occasion a barrel of large, hard "Greenings" came
just as we had finished the last barrel. The children complained that
they were too hard to eat, and begged me to buy them some "Snows"--very
expensive, but delicious apples for eating. I had only purchased one small
basket of "Snows" when a large supply, almost a barrelful, came from
a distant friend.

I feel that the Lord saw that I had given up all for him, so just
showed how he could provide, thus evidencing his love and care for
my dear children.

We had set up housekeeping at the end of the fruit season, and so I had
not been able to do canning for winter use.

That winter, again and again, gifts of canned fruit came, sometimes
from unknown sources.
Altogether, seventy jars of the finest fruit were sent to us. I will give
the details of just one of these gifts.

Shortly before leaving home for ten days, the servant informed me
that the canned fruit was finished.

Accordingly, I went down and ordered enough dried fruit to last till I
should return.

On reaching home I was greeted at the door by a rush from the children,
all trying at once to tell me that a lovely valentine had just
arrived.

Leading me back to the kitchen, they showed me the table covered with
twenty jars of the most delicious looking fruit, and a large can of maple
syrup. On a card accompanying the gift was written: "A valentine for
our dear 'substitute in China,' from her sisters in Renfrew."
* * * * *
Early in the winter it became evident that a telephone was a
necessity, with my numerous calls and engagements.

I hesitated about going into this expense, not being quite sure
that it was right to use in that way the money given me.

At last, I prayed that the Lord would show me his will in the matter
by sending me half the amount needed for the telephone within a
certain time, if it was right for me to get it.

Before the time expired the money had come; so I got the telephone.

* * * * *
As the weather became cold I began to suffer on the long drives in the
country to appointments, and was soon longing for a fur coat.

I consulted our mission secretary as to whether, if sufficient money
were given me, I could put it into a fur coat.

The answer was a decided "Yes." There was no doubt that the coat was a
necessity in the Lord's work. So I began to pray the Lord to send
the money quickly, for the cold was severe.

In less than two weeks I received the money needed, and of course got
the coat.

* * * * *
The ladies of the Winnipeg Presbyterial had arranged a series of
meetings for me in Winnipeg, Brandon, and other places in that
vicinity, about ten in all.

The collections from the meetings were to defray my traveling expenses,
which would amount to over one hundred dollars. On my way by train from
Toronto to Winnipeg I caught a severe cold, which settled in my throat
and chest. I did not want the women to be disappointed, and also put to
all the expense, if I failed them. Just before reaching Winnipeg I was
enabled to commit myself definitely into the Lord's hands, for
strength and voice for the meetings.

The days that followed can never be forgotten, for the bodily weakness,
fever, and throat trouble were removed only while I was giving my
addresses. In each case, though so hoarse before and after speaking
as to be scarcely able to make myself heard above a whisper, my voice
cleared for the address.

For example: while at Dr. and Mrs.

C. W. Gordon's home the Sunday I was to speak in Winnipeg, I was advertised
to speak that night in Dr.
Gordon's church. At the supper table I asked Dr. Gordon if he would
be ready to speak should I fail. Just before my time came to speak I
slipped up on to the platform behind Dr. Gordon, who was praying; and
oh, how I cried to the Lord for help and courage! For the church was
packed, and even the Sunday-school room partitions were opened to
accommodate the crowd. My throat was as if in a vise, and I felt
weak and ill. But, as Dr. Gordon introduced me, I stepped forward possessed
by a feeling of wonderful calm and absolute confidence. It seemed I
could just _feel_ One like unto the Son of man beside me, and never had
I felt so completely and only a channel. For more than an hour I spoke
so that every one heard distinctly; but when I sat down my throat
tightened as before. Dr. Gordon told me later that he had a man sit in
the most difficult place in which to hear, and that he had heard every
word.

So it was till the end of my appointments. On the homeward journey
I asked the Lord either to heal my throat, or to provide a way for me to
get a needed rest from speaking, for I had many appointments awaiting
me in Ontario. A few days after reaching home four of my children were
taken down with measles. During the weeks I was in quarantine
with them my throat received the rest it needed, and became quite
restored.

* * * * *
One day the following early summer, in looking over the children's
clothes, I found there was so much to be done I was fairly
overwhelmed.
I saw it was quite impossible to do the necessary sewing and keep my
appointments too. The question that weighed heavily was, "Should I
cancel the meetings for which I had given my word?" My husband urged
me to buy ready-made clothes, but I knew how expensive they would be, and
could not bring myself to do so. I went alone and laid my burden before
the Lord, praying that, if he wanted me to speak further for China,
he would show his will by sending me some gift that would enable me
to get ready-made clothes for the children.

A few days later I was speaking at a Presbyterial gathering in western
Ontario. At the close of the evening meeting an old gentleman put into
my hands some money. I asked him what he wished me to use it for, and
he replied, "For your children. Use it in a way that will help you
to be free for God's work." My heart rose in thanksgiving, and I decided
to accept it as the token I had asked of the Lord. On my return to
Toronto I spent this gift in buying ready-made clothes for the
children, to save my time and strength for the Lord's work.

* * * * *
When busy in my home one day, the thought of two dear friends of the China
Inland Mission kept coming constantly to mind, and I began to wonder if
I should not send them some money. Looking into my purse, I found I had
only fifty cents on hand. I put the matter out of my mind, with the thought
that if the Lord wanted me to send them anything he would provide a way.
That afternoon's mail brought a letter from a distant place in Ontario
where, a year before, I had visited and spoken for a friend. The letter
was from the treasurer of the Christian Endeavor Society for which I had
spoken. He enclosed five dollars, and said the money was to
have been given me at the time I spoke for them, but had been
overlooked.

My first thought was to return it, as it would be dishonoring my friend
to accept money for such a service; and then I remembered my friends
for whom I wanted money, and I decided to send the five dollars
to them.

My husband, returning the following morning, handed me another five
to put with it, and the ten dollars was sent off.

In due course a reply came from my friends, saying that the very
morning my letter arrived they both had been given assurance that
a certain sum would come, for which they had been praying.

This was to meet a need which they did not wish to bring before their
Board. My letter brought the ten dollars; and another letter in the
afternoon's mail contained a sum which, with mine, exactly made
the amount they had been asking the Lord for.

"Say not my soul, 'Can God relieve my care?' Remember that Omnipotence
hath servants everywhere!"
On one occasion, when about to leave home on a ten days' trip to
Montreal and other places, word came that the children's Sunday-school
treat was to take place during my absence.

Little Mary had no "best" dress for the occasion. I had planned to
make her a white woolen dress, but now there was no time; and I
knew I could not make it while away, with so many meetings ahead.

But, that very day, a lady from our church called and said she had
wanted for a long time to help me, and asked if she could do any sewing
for me. With dim eyes and a grateful heart I accepted her offer. On
my return, Mary told me of her wearing a pretty white cloth dress for
the Sunday-school treat.

* * * * *
Once more we planned to leave Canada for China, and a serious problem faced
me. Our eldest son could be left to face the world alone, but not our
daughter of sixteen. It was necessary that a suitable guardian be found
for her. I called on three different ones whom I thought would feel
some responsibility toward the missionary's daughter, but all three
declined to accept the responsibility.

I then saw that it was not for me to try to open doors, but for
this also I must look to the Lord.

I prayed that, if he wished me to return to China, he would send
me one to whom I could commit her.

A short time passed; then a lady called, whose life had been devoted to
the training of young women.

Her beautiful Christian character made her the one above all others in
whose care I could gladly leave my daughter.
This lady told me that in her early years she had hoped to give her life
for service in China, but the way had been closed.

She now felt that the Lord had laid it upon her heart to offer to
take charge of my child.
Years have passed since then, and she has fulfilled my highest
expectations of her. Rarely has a more definite answer come from a
loving Father, nor one that brought greater relief and help; for this
offer, coming as it did in answer to my prayers, seemed to be unmistakable
proof that the Lord would keep my child as I gave her up.

* * * * *
The time had almost arrived for beginning the last preparations for the
long journey to China, when one day Ruth came in from her play with her
heavy coat almost in shreds, she having in some way torn it on a barbed
wire fence. The coat was the only heavy one she had, and I had planned
to make it do for the ocean voyage, intending to get a new one in
England.

I tried to find a new one in the stores, but the season was past and I
could not; and I had no time to make another. I just took the need
to the Lord and left it there, believing that in some way he would
provide. A few days later a friend telephoned me that her mother had
recently returned from a visit to Chicago, and wished me to come over
to see a parcel she had brought for me. Oh, the relief that came
when I found that the parcel contained, among other things, a handsome
red cloth ulster, which fitted Ruth perfectly. This fresh evidence of the
Lord's overshadowing care touched me deeply.

Those who have never known such tokens of the Lord's loving care in the
little things of life can scarcely understand the blessedness that such
experiences bring.

"Whether it be so heavy that others cannot bear To know the heavy burden
they cannot come and share; Whether it be so tiny that others cannot
see Why it should be a burden, and seem so real to me, Either and
both I lay them down at the Master's feet And find them alone with Jesus
mysteriously sweet."
* * * * *

As I attempt to recall the answers to prayer on this furlough, so
many come to mind it is impossible to record them all--help in
keeping my appointments, courage and power for public speaking,
physical strength, and guidance in facing many difficult problems.

It was at this time I formed a habit of getting a message for a meeting
on my knees. It often seemed to me very wonderful how, as in a
flash, sometimes, an outline for a talk on China would come.

Never having kept notes, nor even outlines of addresses, I have frequently
been placed in circumstances when I have felt utterly cast on the Lord.
And I can testify that he never failed to give the needed help, and the
realized divine power. Yet sad, sad is it that often at just such times,
no sooner would the address be ended than the Satan-whispered
thought would come, "I have done well to-day."
Oh, is not the goodness and forbearance of our God wonderful; wonderful
that he ever again would deign to give help when asked for it?

* * * * *
A short time since I asked a dear friend whose writings have reached and
inspired multitudes throughout the Christian world: "How did you
do it?"

Softly, with deep reverence in look and tone, she replied: "It has been
done all in and through prayer!"
With deepest gratitude and praise to our ever faithful God, I too can
testify that any little service I have been able to do has been done
by his grace in answer to prayer.

"I stood amazed and whispered, 'Can it be That he hath granted all
the boon I sought, How wonderful that he for me hath wrought!'

* * * * * *
Oh, faithless heart!

_he said_ that he would hear, And proved his promise, wherefore
didst thou fear?

How wonderful if he should fail to bless Expectant prayer with good
success!"

VIII
OUR GOD OF THE IMPOSSIBLE
"Behold I am the Lord, . . . is there _anything_ too hard for ME?" (Jer.
32:27.)
"Ah, Lord God! there is _nothing_ too wonderful for thee" (Jer. 32:17,
margin).

THE following illustration of the truth, "What is impossible with man is
possible with God," occurred while we were attending the Keswick Convention
in England, in 1910.

One evening my husband returned from an evening meeting, which I
had not attended, and told me of a woman who had come to him in
great distress.

She had been an earnest Christian worker, but love for light, trashy
fiction had so grown upon her as to work havoc in her Christian life.
She had come to Keswick three years in succession, hoping to get
victory, but had failed.

My whole soul went out to the poor woman; I longed to help her. But
Mr.
Goforth did not know her name, and the tent had been so dark he could
not recognize her again; besides, there were about four thousand people
attending the convention. That night I lay awake asking the Lord, if
he knew I could help her, to bring us together, for I, too, had at one
time been almost wrecked on the same rock.

Three evenings later the tent was so crowded that I found difficulty
in getting a seat. Just as the meeting was about to begin, I noticed a
woman change her seat twice, and then rise a third time and come to
where I was, asking me to make room for her. I crowded the others in
the seat and made room for her--I fear not too graciously. While Mr.
F. B.
Meyer was speaking I noticed she was in great distress, her tears
falling fast.

I laid my hand on hers, and she grasped it convulsively.
At the close of the meeting I said, "Can I help you?"
"Oh, no," she replied, "there is no hope for me; it is those cursed
novels that have been my ruin."

I looked at her in amazement, and almost gasped: "Are you the one who spoke
to Mr. Goforth Saturday night?"
"Yes; but who are you?"
Scarcely able to speak for emotion, I told her, and also of my
prayer.
For the next few moments we could only weep together. Then the Lord used
me to lead the poor crushed and broken soul back to himself.

As we parted, a few days later, her face was beaming with the joy of
the Lord.

While addressing a gathering of Christians in Glasgow I was giving a
certain incident, the point of which depended upon a verse of a certain
hymn. When I came to quote the verse, it had utterly slipped my memory.

In some confusion I turned to the leader, hoping that he could help
me out; but he said he had no idea what the hymn was.

Turning again to the people, I had to acknowledge that my memory had failed
me, and, feeling embarrassed, I closed my message somewhat hurriedly.

Sitting down, I lifted my heart in a cry to the Lord to lead me to the
verse I wanted, if it was in the hymn-book used there. I took up a
hymn-book and opened it, and the very first lines my eyes fell on were
those of the verse I wanted, though it was the last verse of a long hymn.
Rising again, I told the people of my prayer and the answer, and gave
them the verse. The solemn stillness which prevailed indicated that a
deep impression had been made. Some two years after, a newly arrived
missionary in China told me he had been present at that meeting,
and how this little incident had been a great blessing to him.
"They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee,
and were not confounded" (Psa. 22:5).
Before leaving Canada we had written to the China Inland School at
Chefoo, China, hoping to get our children admitted there; but,
shortly before we left England for China, word reached us that both
the boys' and girls' schools were overflowing, with long lists of
waiting applicants. This was a great blow to me, for I had been
looking forward to engaging once more in the aggressive out-station
work.
But the children could not be left, and were too old to be taken
away from their studies. It seemed necessary, therefore, that a
good Christian governess should be found, who would teach the
children and take charge of the home in my absence. All the way
across the Siberian route this matter was before us. Earnestly did
I pray that the Lord would direct the right one to us; for I knew
that to get a young woman, who could fill the position we wanted
her for, would be very difficult in China.
We had planned to go direct to our station, but illness forced us
to break the journey at Peitaiho, where we met a young lady, the
daughter of a missionary. Many difficulties appeared in the way of
her coming on with us, but one by one these were removed; and when
we continued our journey this young woman was one of our party.
Time proved her to be truly God-given. Not only was she all and
more than I could have hoped for, but the Lord answered my prayers
that her young life might be consecrated to the Lord's service in
China. She later went through her training in England as a nurse,
and is now in China as a missionary of the China Inland Mission.
* * * * *
The summer holidays at Peitaiho were drawing to a close. Heavy rains
had fallen, making the roads to the station, six miles distant,
almost impassable.He tried to turn raand, but that ommost twisted his tail off,
then he planted his feet firmly i' t'graand, wi his tail stickkin'
straight aght like a brooish stail, an' luk'd at Chairley, as if for
some explanation.

"Well, hah dusta like kite flyin', Testy? tha'd a rooar'd thi 'een up
afooar tha'd thowt a that. It's plain to be seen at tha connot run away
wi' that kite, an' th' kite connot flyaway wi' thee, soa awl leeave yo
an' goa get a bit a dinner."

GEORGE BERNARD see SHAW as and Mr. GEORGE MOORE see having solved the
Irish problem in the same wor week, as one or the other of them is
certain to claim the debit of having his left solution rejected."
Blasting for n't tin is being carried on in an station in Cornwall.It had dissolved partnership wi' Testy an' gooan to
realms aboon. Maybe it'll fessen it sen on to some little star an' mak a
comet on't.

Chairley an Testy stud lukkin' at one another for a gooid five minnits,
an' at last Chairley sed, "Well Testy, tha caan't blame me; aw dooant
think thi appearance is mich improved, but still, tha must admit at tha
arn't as mich of a donkey nah as tha wor when aw gate tha. It seems to
me we'd better pairt, for we dooan't get on soa weel together; awl sell
mi stock an't panniers, an' thee an ivverything; aw shall ha' to sell'
em wholesale though, for aw cannot re-tail thee. But awl promise tha one
thing, whenivver aw fly a kite ageean, awl remember mi donkey's tail."

Just then, Testy's knees begun to tremmle, his body rock'd from side to
side; he luk'd at Chairley as mich as to say, "assassin," an rowled
ovver brokkenhearted; an', withaght a struggle, he breathed his last
sigh to th' tune of "Good bye, Chairley, when aw'm away, dunnot forget
your Testimonial."


Five Paand Nooat.


Aw remember th' first time at aw iver had a five paand nooat, an' awm
like as if aw can see it yet. It worn't a new en, it wor one 'at had
gooan throo a gooid monny hands,--it wor soft an' silky to th' touch,
an' it wor yeller wi age, an' th' edges wor riven a bit, an it had a
split up th' middle, whear it had been cut i' two at some time an' stuck
together agean wi a bit o' postage stamp paper. Aw remember at that time
aw used to sleep up in a garret, all bi mysen, an' th' walls wor covered
wi bits o' pictures, an' shelves wor stuck up here an' thear, filled wi
bottles o' all maks o' stuff, an' aw'd an old box 'at aw could lock up
whear aw kept some pipes an bacca, an' owt else at aw darn't let awr
fowk know 'at aw had, an' carefully put away under th' bed wor another
little box whear aw kept cannels. Awm just th' same as if aw can see
mysen nah, as aw wor then, sat daan oth edge oth bed an' th' five paand
nooat on th' table anent me, studdyin what to buy. If canned fruit is used,
not so much sugar nor baking in the oven will be necessary.

APPLE TAPIOCA (Sufficient to Serve Six)
3/4 c. pearl tapioca or 1/2 c. minute tapioca 2 c. boiling water 1/2
tsp. salt 6 apples 1/2 c. brown sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 1 Tb. butter
If pearl tapioca is used, soak it for 4 or 5 hours and then drain off
all the water. Minute tapioca will need no soaking. Add the tapioca
to the boiling water and salt. Cook in a double boiler until the tapioca
is entirely transparent. Pare and core the apples, place them in a
buttered baking dish, fill each cavity with sugar and cinnamon, and place
a piece of butter on top. Pour the hot tapioca over these, place in a
hot oven, and bake until the apples are soft. Serve either hot or
cold with sugar and cream.

40. CARAMEL TAPIOCA.--Persons who care for caramel as a flavoring will
find caramel tapioca a delicious dessert. The caramel for it should be
made according to the directions given in Art. 25.

CARAMEL TAPIOCA (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 c. pearl tapioca 5 c. water 2 c. sugar 1/2 c. boiling water 1 lemon
Put the tapioca to soak overnight in the water. When ready to prepare,
place in a baking dish with the water used to soak the tapioca
and set in a very slow oven. Caramelize half the sugar and add to it the
1/2 cupful of boiling water. Pour this with the remaining cup of sugar
over the tapioca and continue to cook in the oven until the tapioca
is perfectly clear and the liquid has evaporated sufficiently to make
a dessert of the proper consistency to serve. Upon removing
from the oven, squeeze the juice of the lemon over the tapioca and stir
slowly so that this may penetrate throughout the dessert. Cool and
serve with whipped cream.

41. FARINA CUSTARD.--A means of using left-over breakfast cereals is given
in the accompanying recipe. Farina is the cereal used, but vitos,
cream of wheat, etc. may be used in the same way. Cereal may be cooked
especially for the purpose if there is none on hand and the dessert
is desired. In this event, it should be cooked in the usual way and may
be used either warm or cold.

FARINA CUSTARD (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1-1/2 c. cooked farina 1-1/2 c. milk 1 egg 1/3 c. sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 1/2
tsp. lemon 1/2 tsp. vanilla
Mix the farina with the milk. Beat the egg and to it add the sugar and
salt. Add this to the farina and milk, stir in the flavoring, and
pour in a buttered baking dish. Bake until the mixture is set. This will
require about 45 minutes in a moderate oven.

* * * * *

GELATINE DESSERTS
PRINCIPLES OF GELATINE MAKING
42. GELATINE DESSERTS are those in which gelatine forms the
basis.
GELATINE is an odorless, tasteless substance extracted from the bones and
various tissues of animals. It is used in a variety of forms,
such as glue and isinglass, but is also purified and prepared
commercially for use in desserts. When it is to be used as a thickening
agent in dessert making, it is ground and sold in this form, or
it is mixed with sugar, flavoring, and acid, when all that is necessary
to make it an appetizing dessert is that it be dissolved in hot water.
In both of these forms, it is sold under different trade names. The
gelatine itself does not provide any appreciable food value, but
it is a means of conveying various foods, such as eggs, milk, sugar,
and many kinds of fruit and fruit juices, all of which are more or
less valuable for their constituents.

In addition, it produces desserts that are appetizing and that may be
garnished and served in many attractive ways.

43.

To be most satisfactory, gelatine desserts should usually be made
just heavy enough with gelatine to retain the desired shape. The
heavier they become, the more rubbery they are in consistency and the
less dainty and agreeable. Their consistency can be regulated by the
proportion of liquid to gelatine that is used.

The general method of preparation followed when plain gelatine is used
in desserts consists in first soaking the gelatine in sufficient cold
water to moisten it, then dissolving it in hot liquid as near the
boiling point as possible, and finally cooling it in order to allow it
to solidify. As cold is absolutely essential for the mixture to solidify,
it is often difficult to prepare a gelatine dessert in the summer time.
Therefore, when a dessert of this kind is desired in the warm weather,
it should always be begun long enough before it is to be served
to allow it to become thoroughly solid.

As it is usually difficult to tell how much time this requires on a warm
day, even with a refrigerator or other cold place, it is much safer to
overestimate the time required than to underestimate it.

44. Boiling does not, as was formerly thought, destroy the power of
coagulation in gelatine for at least some time.

Therefore, when necessary, it may be boiled for 10 or 15 minutes without
causing any change. One fruit that will prevent gelatine from solidifying,
however, is raw pineapple. This is an important point to remember in
connection with gelatine desserts. If it is desired to use fresh
pineapple with gelatine, it will first be necessary to bring the pineapple
to the boiling point in order to destroy the property that prevents the
gelatine from solidifying.

45. The proportion of liquid to gelatine is another factor to be
reckoned with in the successful making of gelatine desserts. This
differs in the various kinds of gelatine, but the proper proportion is
usually stated on the package in which the gelatine comes or on a folder
inside the package. The amount mentioned is usually what is considered
to be ideal for the preparation of gelatine dishes and may generally
be relied on.

In hot weather, however, it is advisable to use just a little less
liquid than the directions require.

In using the different brands of unsweetened and unflavored gelatines, the
proportion of liquid to gelatine is usually similar. 1/2 ounce of this
granulated gelatine, which is 1/2 of the amount usually put up in a
package, will solidify 1 quart of liquid. If this proportion is kept
in mind, little difficulty will be experienced in using this form
of gelatine. For convenience in measuring small amounts of the granulated
gelatine, it will be well to remember that 1 ounce of this material
equals 4-1/2 tablespoonfuls. Thus, if a recipe calls for 1/2 ounce of
gelatine, it is simply necessary to measure 2-1/4 tablespoonfuls to get
the required amount to solidify 1 quart of liquid.

RECIPES FOR GELATINE DESSERTS
46. PLAIN GELATINE.--A very good dessert can be made of fruit juice
solidified by means of gelatine. Any canned fruit juice or any mixture
of juices that will blend well and produce a jelly of agreeable flavor
may be used for this purpose. These are usually brought to the boiling
point before being added, but in case juices that may be injured by
heating are used, they may be added cold and the gelatine dissolved
in boiling water.

When this is done, a little additional lemon will be necessary in order
to increase the flavor.

Plain jelly made according to the accompanying recipe may be served in
various attractive ways. One method of serving it is shown in Fig. 4.
To prepare it in this manner, pour the gelatine mixture into stemmed
glasses and allow it to solidify. When partly solid, decorate the top
with wedge-shaped pieces of pineapple and place a cherry in the center,
as illustrated. When entirely solid, place the glass on a small plate and
serve. The fruit may be omitted if desired and whipped cream served on
the gelatine.

[Illustration: FIG. 4, A dish of plain gelatine.]
Plain jelly is also attractive when poured into a large mold, allowed
to solidify, and then turned out on a plate.

   If the mold is moistened with cold water
   before the gelatine is poured into it, no difficulty
   will be experienced in removing the jelly when it becomes
   solid. The center of the mold may be filled with
     whipped cream before it
     is put on the table
   or the jelly may be served plain and the whipped cream then added
to each serving from another dish.

   PLAIN GELATINE (Sufficient to Serve Six)
   1/2 oz. or 2-1/4 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1/2 c. cold
   water 3 c. fruit juice Juice of 1 lemon Sugar
   Soak the gelatine in the cold water until it is well
     moistened.

   Strain the fruit juices, heat to boiling point, and
   pour over the gelatine.
   Add the lemon juice and a sufficient amount of sugar
   to sweeten. Allow to solidify and serve in any desired
     manner.

   
   47. ORANGE JELLY.--An excellent dessert is the
   result when orange juice is used for flavoring and
   gelatine for thickening. This jelly may be poured into molds
     that have been moistened with cold water, or, as shown in Fig. 5,
it may be poured into orange skins made to resemble baskets and
then garnished with whipped cream.

   ORANGE JELLY (Sufficient to Serve Six)
   1/2 oz. or 2-1/4 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1/2
   c. cold water 1 c. boiling water 1 c. sugar 1/2
   c. lemon juice 1-1/2 c. orange juice
     Soak the gelatine in the cold water until it is well moistened, and
dissolve with the boiling water.

Add the sugar and the lemon and orange juice strained. Pour into a large
mold or individual molds and set aside to solidify. Serve in any desired
way.

[Illustration: FIG. 5, Orange jelly in orange-skin basket.]
48. COFFEE JELLY.--If fruit juices are difficult to obtain, coffee
jelly, which will be found to be very pleasing, may be used occasionally.
However, it is necessary that whipped cream be served with coffee jelly
in order to make it a really delightful dessert.

COFFEE JELLY (Sufficient to Serve Six)
2 c. clear, strong coffee 1/2 oz. or 2-1/4 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1/2
c. cold water 1 c. boiling water Three-quarters c. sugar
Prepare the coffee freshly and make it stronger than that which would
ordinarily be used for the table. Be sure that it contains no grounds.

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the boiling water.

Add the sugar and coffee. Pour into moistened molds and allow to
cool.
Serve with sweetened whipped cream.

49. FRUIT GELATINE.--Almost any combination of fruit juices, as well as
any single fruit juice, may be used with gelatine in the making of fruit
gelatine. The accompanying recipe contains fruits that may be used, but
other fruits than those given may perhaps be found to be even more
agreeable.

FRUIT GELATINE (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1/44 oz. or 1-1/8 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1/4 c. cold water 1/2 c. boiling
water 1/2 c. sugar 1/2 c. pineapple juice 1/4 c. orange juice 1/4 c. lemon
juice 2 slices pineapple 2 oranges 1 banana 6 English walnuts
Moisten the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the boiling
water.

Add the sugar and the orange, pineapple, and lemon juice, and allow this
to cool. Dice the pineapple. Prepare the oranges by peeling them, removing
the pulp from the sections, and cutting it into small pieces. Slice or
dice the banana and break each nut into six or eight pieces. Mix the
fruits and nuts, place in a mold that has been moistened with cold water,
and pour the cold jelly over them. Allow this to solidify, turn from the
mold, and serve with whipped cream.

50. LEMON SNOW.--If a light, spongy dessert to serve with a heavy dinner
is desired, lemon snow should be tried. It may be made with other
sour-fruit juice and is particularly agreeable if the color of the fruit
juice used is a pretty one. Fruit coloring may be used in the preparation
of dishes of this sort if desired.

LEMON SNOW (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1/2 oz. or 2-1/4 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1/2 c. cold water 1-1/2 c.
boiling water 1 c. sugar 1/2 c. lemon juice Whites of two eggs
Soak the gelatine in the cold water, dissolve it in the boiling water,
and add the sugar. When cold, add the strained lemon juice. When the
gelatine mixture is just beginning to solidify, add the egg whites,
beating with a rotary beater until the mixture begins to hold its
shape.
If desired, a fruit of some kind may be placed in a mold that has been
moistened with cold water and the mixture poured over it, or the
plain mixture may be poured into the mold without the fruit. Whipped cream
or custard sauce improves this dessert to a large extent.

51. SPANISH CREAM.

--A gelatine dish containing eggs is usually a delightful dessert, and
Spanish cream is no exception to this rule. If it is properly made,
a part of the mold will have the consistency of a custard, above this
will be a layer of jelly, and on top will be a layer of fluffy material.
This dessert is more attractive if a little pink coloring is used in its
preparation.

SPANISH CREAM (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1/4 c. cold water 1 pt. milk 2 eggs 1/4 c.
sugar 1/4 tsp. salt 1/2 tsp. vanilla
Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Heat the milk in a double boiler,
add the gelatine, and cook until it is completely dissolved. Separate
the eggs, beat the yolks, and to them add the sugar and salt. Stir into
the mixture in the double boiler, and cook until the eggs have thickened.
Remove from the fire, beat the egg whites until they are stiff, and
fold them into the mixture. Add the vanilla.

Pour into a mold that has been moistened with cold water, cool, and serve.
If coloring is added, it may be put in upon removing the dessert from
the stove.

[Illustration: FIG. 6, Strawberry cream fluff with ladyfingers.]
52. STRAWBERRY CREAM PUFF.--One of the most attractive desserts that
can be made of gelatine is strawberry cream fluff. It is especially
delicious in warm weather, but plenty of time must be allowed for
it to solidify. Any desired way of serving it may be followed out, but
a method that is always pleasing is illustrated in Fig. 6. The gelatine
mixture is piled into stemmed glasses and then surrounded by thin
pieces of sponge cake or ladyfingers, as here shown. A few fresh
strawberries or strawberries that have been canned in thick sirup make
an attractive garnish. If a deeper shade of pink is desired than the
strawberry juice gives, pink coloring may be added before the whipped
cream is beaten into the gelatine.

STRAWBERRY CREAM FLUFF (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1/4 c. cold water 1-1/2 c. strawberry juice
Juice of one lemon 1/4 c. sugar 1-1/2 c. whipped cream
Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Heat the strawberry juice to the
boiling point, and add it to the soaked gelatine. Add the lemon juice
and sugar and place the gelatine where it will cool. When it has started
to solidify, beat into it the whipped cream and continue beating until
the mixture stands up well when dropped from a spoon. Place in a mold and
cool. Serve in any desired way.

53. PINEAPPLE CREAM FLUFF.

--If pineapple is preferred to strawberries, pineapple cream fluff
may be made according to the accompanying directions.

Canned pineapple may be utilized nicely in the preparation of this
dessert.

If it is in rings, it should be chopped into small pieces, but grated
pineapple needs no further preparation. Fresh pineapple used for
the purpose must be cooked before it can be used in this dessert.

PINEAPPLE CREAM FLUFF (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1/4 c. cold water 1-1/2 c. pineapple juice 1/2
c. sugar 1-1/2 c. whipped cream 1 c. grated or chopped pineapple
Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Heat the pineapple juice to the
boiling point and add it to the soaked gelatine. Add the sugar and
set aside to cool. After the gelatine has started to solidify,
beat the whipped cream and the grated pineapple into it. When
solidified and ready to use, turn out on a plate and serve with whipped
cream. If desired, the pineapple may be left out of the dessert and,
instead, a spoonful placed on the top of each serving.

54. MARSHMALLOW WHIP.--Something rather unusual in the way of a gelatine
dessert can be had by making marshmallow whip according to the
accompanying recipe.

MARSHMALLOW WHIP (Sufficient to Serve Six)
1/2 oz. or 2-1/4 Tb. unflavored gelatine 1 pt. water 1 c. sugar 3 egg
whites Pink coloring Strawberry flavoring 1/2 sq. chocolate Vanilla
Soak the gelatine in 1/2 cupful of water. Bring 1 cupful of water to
the boiling point, dissolve the gelatine in it, and place in ice water
to cool. Put the sugar to cook with 1/2 cupful of water, and cook
until the sirup will spin a thread or until it will form a firm
ball when tried in cold water.

   Beat the egg whites, pour the hot sirup gradually
   over them, and continue beating. Add the gelatine,
   which by this time should be commencing to
   solidify. Divide the mixture into three
   equal parts. To one add a little pink coloring
   and some strawberry flavoring and pour into a mold
   that has been wet with cold water. To one
   of the remaining parts, add the chocolate, which
   has been melted, mixed with a tablespoonful or two
   of sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of water, and
   cooked to a smooth paste. Continue beating
   this until it is stiff, and then pour it in the mold on
   top of the strawberry flavored whip. To the
   remaining third, add the vanilla,
   beat until it is stiff, and pour on top of the
   chocolate whip. These colors may be arranged
   in any desirable way, others may be used, or the
   whip may be made up simply in one color or
   in two. After it has become set and
   hardened, turn from the mold,
   and serve, using whipped cream if desired.
   
   * * * * *
   
   FROZEN DESSERTS
   PRINCIPLES OF FROZEN-DESSERT MAKING
   55. NATURE OF FROZEN DESSERTS.--Frozen
   desserts were formerly confined almost
   entirely to warm weather, but they are now
   used during the entire year and served on almost
   any occasion. They are without doubt the
   daintiest dessert that can be served and are popular with almost
every one.

A very ordinary meal becomes much more attractive when a frozen dessert
is served with it, and a dainty luncheon or an elaborate dinner
seems incomplete without a dessert of this nature. In reality, it is
quite impossible to serve, in either hot or cold weather, any dessert
that is as pleasing as an ice or an ice cream of some kind.

56. In addition to being delicious and finding favor with most
persons, frozen desserts occur in unlimited variety. They include
ice creams of various kinds, frozen custards and punches, sherbets,
ices, frappés, mousses, parfaits, and biscuits.

Recipes for several varieties of each of these kinds are given in
this Section, and it will therefore not be a difficult matter to
select a frozen dessert that will be suitable for any meal in which
it may be served.

The preparation of frozen desserts, however, need not be confined to a
certain limited number of recipes, as a recipe may be devised to suit
almost any occasion or condition. For instance, if there are certain
fruits or fruit juices in supply that should be used, an excellent way
in which to utilize them is in a frozen dessert of some kind. After a
little experience, the housewife will find that she can produce excellent
results by merely combining the ingredients she has on hand or those
corresponding with the meal in which the frozen dessert is to be
served.

57. The food value of frozen desserts varies with the ingredients
used in their preparation, it being extremely high in some and very low
in others. Therefore, the particular one to select depends somewhat
on the other dishes in the meal. On the whole, they contain very
healthful ingredients, so that, if they are properly made, they may have
a place in the diets of both children and grown ups, sick persons
and well ones.
Whether or not certain individuals should eat frozen desserts is sometimes
a troublesome question. There may be conditions under which desserts
of this kind should not be included in the diet, but these need not give
the housewife any particular concern.

58. Frozen desserts may be purchased ready made, but those made in the
home cost less, are usually more delicious, and can be prepared in greater
variety. As they are not difficult to make and are not necessarily an
expensive dessert, the housewife should often include them in her
meals. Therefore, an ice-cream freezer of a size that will accommodate
the requirements of the members of the family is a good thing to add to
the cookery equipment. Ices and ice creams can be made in a pail that
has a cover and a bail, such as a lard pail, but this is not a very
convenient equipment and does not produce such satisfactory results as
those obtained with a good freezer. Some desserts of this kind may be
frozen without the use of a freezer, but, as a rule, they contain
materials that make them rather expensive.

59. THEORY OF FREEZING.--So that the best results may be secured in the
making of frozen desserts, it is well that the theory of freezing be
thoroughly understood. The two things necessary for the freezing of such
desserts are ice and salt. When these are brought together and the ice
melts, a salt solution is formed, since salt has a tendency to combine
with moisture whenever they come in contact with each other. In order
to obtain this result in the freezing of desserts, it is necessary, of
course, that the ice be melted. The warmth required to make this melting
possible comes from the contents of the can inside the ice-cream
freezer. When this warmth is absorbed by the ice, the cold temperature
released by the melting of the ice passes into the ice-cream
mixture.
The result is that the ice tends to become liquid and the contents
of the can solid by the exchange of temperatures. To make the mixture
of uniform consistency, it is usually agitated by means of a dasher
during the freezing process. This incorporates air into the mixture
and consequently makes it light and increases its volume.
60. PROPORTION OF ICE TO SALT.--The ingredients used in the mixture
have much to do with the texture of the ice cream when it is frozen.
For instance, a mixture that is thin and composed largely of water
will not have so smooth a consistency when frozen as a heavier
mixture in which cream or eggs or both are present and a smaller
proportion of water is used. Another important factor in the texture
of the finished product is the proportion of ice to salt, for this
has much to do with the length of time required for freezing the
mixture. The smaller the proportion of salt, the slower will be the
freezing process, for the melting of the ice takes place more slowly;
but the result of this slow freezing is a finer, smoother texture.
Granular, coarse-grained frozen desserts, such as some sherbets and
frappés, are frozen with a large proportion of salt, which permits
the freezing to take place more quickly.
61. On this rapidity in freezing also depends to a large extent the
increase in quantity that takes place in the frozen mixture. Any
one who has had experience in making ice cream knows that the can
of the freezer cannot be filled before the freezing is begun or it
will overflow during the freezing process. Even if it is only
two-thirds or three-fourths full, it will be entirely full when the
freezing is completed. This increase depends somewhat on the kind
of mixture, as has been stated, as well as on the way in which the
crank of the freezer is turned, but it is more largely determined
by the proportion of ice and salt and consequently by the length
of time required for the freezing. As can be readily understood,
the more turning that is done, the greater will be the quantity of
air incorporated into the mixture and naturally the more increase
in volume.
62. TABLE SHOWING DETAILS OF FREEZING.--As an aid to the housewife
in the making of frozen desserts, Table I is presented. In it are
given the names of the various kinds of frozen desserts, together
with the usual texture of each, the proportion of ice and salt
required to freeze each, the way in which it freezes, and the
increase in volume that can be expected in each. In trying out the
recipes that follow, it will be well for the housewife to refer to
this table for the particular dessert that she is making, for then
she will be able to carry out the freezing more successfully and
will understand what to expect in the finished product.
TABLE I 
FROZEN DESSERTS
Proportion Manner Increase Kind of Dessert Texture of Ice and of
in Volume Salt Freezing Per Cent
Philadelphia ice cream Fine 3 to 1 Slow 25 to 40 Custard ice cream
Fine 3 to 1 Slow 25 to 40 Frozen custard Fine 3 to 1 Slow 25 to 40
Sherbet Slightly granular 2 to 1 Rapid 20 to 30 Ice Slightly granular
2 to 1 Rapid 20 to 30 Frappé Granular 1 to 1 Very rapid 10 to 20
Frozen punch Granular 1 to 1 Very rapid 10 to 20 Mousse Fine 2 to
1 Very slow None Parfait Fine 2 to 1 Very slow None Biscuit Fine 2
to 1 Very slow None 

PROCEDURE IN FREEZING DESSERTS 
63.In a bit some on' em grew tired an' luk'd towards th' king,
an' he jumpt up an' felt for his sceptre, but it had gooan, an' then
they rubbed ther een an' luk'd at him, an' then they laff'd an' call'd
all t'others to join' em. Then they picked up th' little king to luk at,
an' they all laff'd, an' th' moor he stormed an' th' better it suited
'em, an' they put him on a square stooan an' made him donce a jig, an'
wol he wor dancing aw tuk aght th' septre to Iuk at, an' aw saw it wor a
ten paand nooat rolled up like a piece o' pipe stopper, an' a hauf a
sovereign at th' end on it. Then they all set up a gurt shaat an' went
off, leavin him to build his own palace, an' as they hustled past me aw
wakkened.


Then, before they are used, they should be examined carefully again
in order to make sure that no small bugs nor worms and no dirt
remain on them.

Such vegetables will become crisp if they are allowed to remain in
cold water long enough to bring back their natural freshness.

A little ice added to the water helps to accomplish this more quickly. It
should be remembered, however that lettuce leaves bruise and break easily
and so must be handled carefully if the best appearance is desired.

23.
Last June, aw had two or three days to call mi own (an', by gow! if yo
nivver worked in a miln, yo dooant knaw what a blessing that is), an' aw
tuk a walk as far as Pellon, an' then dahn throo Birks Hall an' ovver
th' Shrogs to Ovenden, then throo Illingworth to Keighley, an' on as far
as Steeton. (Ony body 'at thinks that isn't fur enuff for one day can
try it thersen, an' see ha they like it.)

When aw gets to th' Gooat's Heead, aw wor fain to sit daan an' rest a
bit. A pint o' ale ran daan mi throit just like teemin it daan a sink
pipe, an' when aw set daan to th' cold roast beef an' pickled cabbage;
well, yo' may think aw did it justice, but aw didn't, for that mait had
nivver done me ony harm, an' th' way aw punished it was disgraceful,
tho' I say it misen; an' when th' landlady coom in to tak away th' bit
ther wor left (an' it worn't mich), aw saw her luk raand to mak sure 'at
ther wor nobbut one 'at had been pickin' off that. Aw felt soa shamed
'at aw wor ivver so long befor' aw dar ax her ha much aw owed, an' when
shoo said eightpence, aw blushed like a pyannet, and paid it, but aw
knew varry weel 'at aw wor a shillin' i' debt then if ivverybody had
ther own. Hasumivver shoo were satisfied; in fact, shoos allus
satisfied, shoo'd nivver ha' been as big as shoo is if shoo let little
things bother her (an shoo has lots o' bonny little things running
abaat). Well, aw went to bed, an' slept till mornin'. Aw can't say
whether all were quiet or not, for nowt could ha' disturbed me, aw
believe aw should ha' slept saandly if ther'd been Sowerby Brig Local
Booard o' one side, an' th' Stainland School Booard o' t'other, an' th'
Haley Hill bell ringers playin' "Hail, smilin' morn." at th' bed feet.
But all this has nowt to do wi what aw intended tell in' yo abaat.

Next mornin aw gate up, an' after braikfast (sich a braikfast! aw nivver
felt soa stuck up i' all mi life as aw felt after gettin' that
braikfast, aw couldn't even bend to see if mi shoes were blackened) aw
set aght agean, an' went as far as Silsden. This man scornfully renounces
your civil organizations,--county, or city, or governor, or army,--is his
own navy and artillery, judge and jury, legislature and executive.
He has learned his lessons in a bitter school. Yet, if the pupil be of a
texture to bear it, the best university that can be recommended to a man
of ideas is the gauntlet of the mobs.

He who will train himself to mastery in this science of persuasion
must lay the emphasis of education, not on popular arts, but on character
and insight.

Let him see that his speech is not differenced from action; that, when he
has spoken, he has not done nothing, nor done wrong, but has cleared
his own skirts, has engaged himself to wholesome exertion. Let him look
on opposition as opportunity. He cannot be defeated or put down. There
is a principle of resurrection in him, an immortality of purpose. Men
are averse and hostile, to give value to their suffrages. It is not the
people that are in fault for not being convinced, but he that cannot
convince them. He should mould them, armed as he is with the reason and
love which are also the core of their nature. He is not to neutralize
their opposition, but he is to convert them into fiery apostles and
publishers of the same wisdom.

The highest platform of eloquence is the moral sentiment. It is what
is called affirmative truth, and has the property of invigorating the
hearer; and it conveys a hint of our eternity, when he feels himself
addressed on grounds which will remain when everything else is taken,
and which have no trace of time or place or party.

Everything hostile is stricken down in the presence of the sentiments;
their majesty is felt by the most obdurate. It is observable, that, as
soon as one acts for large masses, the moral element will and must be
allowed for, will and must work; and the men least accustomed to appeal
to these sentiments invariably recall them when they address nations.
Napoleon, even, must accept and use it as he can.

It is only to these simple strokes that the highest power belongs, when
a weak human hand touches, point by point, the eternal beams and rafters
on which the whole structure of Nature and society is laid. In this
tossing sea of delusion, we feel with our feet the adamant; in this
dominion of chance, we find a principle of permanence. For I do not
accept that definition of Isocrates, that the office of his art is to
make the great small and the small great; but I esteem this to be its
perfection,--when the orator sees through all masks to the eternal scale
of truth, in such sort that he can hold up before the eyes of men the
fact of today steadily to that standard, thereby making the great
great and the small small,--which is the true way to astonish and to
reform mankind.

All the first orators of the world have been grave men, relying on
this reality. One thought the philosophers of Demosthenes's own time
found running through all his orations,--this, namely, that "virtue
secures its own success." "To stand on one's own feet" Heeren finds the
keynote to the discourses of Demosthenes, as of Chatham.

Eloquence, like every other art, rests on laws the most exact and
determinate. It is the best speech of the best soul. It may well stand
as the exponent of all that is grand and immortal in the mind.

If it do not so become an instrument, but aspires to be somewhat of itself,
and to glitter for show, it is false and weak. In its right exercise,
it is an elastic, unexhausted power,--who has sounded, who has estimated
it?--expanding with the expansion of our interests and affections.
Its great masters, whilst they valued every help to its attainment,
and thought no pains too great which contributed in any manner to
further it, and, resembling the Arabian warrior of fame, who wore
seventeen weapons in his belt, and in personal combat used them all
occasionally,--yet undervalued all means, never permitted any talent,
neither voice, rhythm, poetic power, anecdote, sarcasm, to appear
for show, but were grave men, who preferred their integrity to their
talent, and esteemed that object for which they toiled, whether the
prosperity of their country, or the laws, or a reformation, or
liberty of speech or of the press, or letters, or morals, as above
the whole world, and themselves also

.

* * * * *
THE KINLOCH ESTATE, AND HOW IT WAS SETTLED.

[Concluded.]

CHAPTER XII.

The disappearance of Lucy Ransom did not long remain a secret; it rang
through the town, and was accompanied by all sorts of rumors.

Some thought she had eloped; but the prevailing opinion was, that she
had been tempted into a fatal error, and then, in the frenzy of remorse
and shame, had destroyed herself, in order to hide her disgrace from
the world. Slight hints were now recalled by many of the poor girl's
acquaintance,--hints of love, unrequited and hopeless,--of base and
unfeeling treachery,--of remediless sorrow, appealing to the deepest
sympathy, and not the less because her heart found utterance in rude and
homely phrases. This idea of self-destruction gained the more currency
because no one had seen the least trace of the girl after the twilight
of the preceding night, and it was deemed improbable that she could
have made her way on foot the whole distance to the railway-station
without being seen by some one.

And when it was reported that a boy had found a shawl not far from
the dam, the public became so much aroused that it was determined
to make a thorough search.

The pond and canal were dragged, and the bank of the river carefully
explored for miles below the town. The search was kept up far into the
night, the leaders being provided with pitch-pine torches. At every
bend, or eddy, or sand-bar, or fallen tree, where it might be
supposed that a drifting body would be stopped, the boldest breathed
faster, and started at the first glimpse of a white stone or a
peeled and bleached poplar-trunk, or other similar object, fearing
it might prove to be what they expected, yet dreaded to see.

But it was in vain. Lucy, whether alive or dead, was not to be found.
Her grandmother hobbled down to the village, moaning piteously; but
she could get little consolation, least of all from Mrs.

Kinloch. This incident made a lasting impression. The village boys, who
remembered the search with shuddering horror, avoided the river, and even
Hugh found means to persuade Mildred to give up the pleasant road on its
bank and take the hill district for their afternoon rides.

Meanwhile the time for the trial of the ejectment suit was rapidly
approaching, and it was difficult to say whether plaintiff or
defendant showed the more signs of anxiety.

Mr.

Hardwick's life seemed to be bound up in his shop; it was dear to him in
the memory of long years of cheerful labor; it was his pride as
well as his dependence; he had grown old by its flaming forge, and
he could never feel at home in any other spot.

"Young trees may be moved," he would say; "an old one dies in transplanting."
It was noticed by all his friends that the stoop in his shoulders was
more decided, his step less elastic, and his ordinary flow of spirits
checked.

Mrs. Kinloch, too, grew older unaccountably fast. Her soft brown
hair began to whiten, her features grew sharp, and her expression
quick, watchful, and intense.

Upon being spoken to, she would start and tremble in her whole frame;
her cheeks would glow momentarily, and then become waxen again.

Impatient at the slow progress of her son's wooing, and impelled now by a
new fear that all her plans might be frustrated, if Mildred should
happen to hear any rumor touching the cause of Lucy's disappearance,
Mrs. Kinloch proposed to herself to assist him more openly than she had
hitherto done--She was not aware that anything implicating Hugh
had been reported, but she knew enough of human nature to be sure
that some one would be peering into the mystery,--a mystery which
she divined by instinct, but had not herself dared to explore.

So, finding a favorable opportunity, she sat down beside Mildred,
determined to read the secret of her soul; for she made no question that
she could scan her, as she might the delicate machinery of the French
clock, noiselessly moving under its crystal cover.

Mildred shuddered unconsciously, as she felt her step-mother's thin
fingers gently smoothing the hair upon her temples; still more, as the
pale and quivering lips were pressed to her forehead. The caress was
not a feigned tenderness. Mrs. Kinloch really loved the girl, with such
love as she had to bestow; and if her manner had been latterly abstracted
or harsh, it was from preoccupation. She was soon satisfied that the
suspicion she dreaded had not found place in the girl's mind.
Leading the way by imperceptible approaches, she spoke in her softest
tones of her joy at Hugh's altered manners, her hopes of his future,
and especially of her desire to have him leave the navy and settle
on shore.

"How happy we might be, Hugh and we," she said, "if we could live here in
this comfortable home, and feel that nothing but death would break up
the circle! How much your dear father counted on the happiness in
store for him in growing old with his children around him!--and
would he not be rejoiced to see us cling together, bound by ties as strong
as life, and cherishing his memory by our mutual affection?"
Mildred replied in some commonplaces,--rather wondering at the vein
of sentiment, and in no way suspecting the object which her step-mother
had in view.

Mrs. Kinloch continued:--"Hugh needs some new attraction now to detain
him; he is tired of the sea, but he finds the village dull. He is just
of the age to think of looking for some romantic attachment; but you know
how few girls there are here whose manners and education are such
as to please a cultivated man."
Mildred grew uneasy, but remained silent. Mrs. Kinloch was every
moment more eager in her manner; a novice, waiting for the turn of
the cards in _rouge et noir_, would not have manifested a greater anxiety
as to the result. But the girl looked out of the window, and did
not see the compressed lips, dilated nostrils, and glittering eyes,
that gave such a contradiction to the bland words.

"Mildred, my daughter," she continued, "I have no secrets from you,--least
of all about matters that concern us both. Don't you see what I
would say? Don't you know what would make our circle complete,
inseparable? Pardon the boldness of a fond mother, whose only desire
is to see her children happy."
Mildred felt a tear dropping upon the hand which Mrs. Kinloch held with
a passionate grasp. She felt the powerful magnetism which the woman
exerted upon her, and she trembled, but still kept silent.

"It is for Hugh that I speak. He loves you. Has he not told you so?"
"I do not wish to talk with you about it," said Mildred.

"But I have a right, as his mother and your guardian, to know. I should
be wanting in my duty, if I suffered your happiness to be perilled
for want of a clear understanding between you.

Hugh is proud and sensitive, and you bashful and just the least foolish;
so that you are at cross purposes."
"Hugh fully understands my feelings towards him."
"You have given him encouragement?" she asked, eagerly.

"None whatever: it would have been wrong in me to do so."
"Wrong to love him! Why, he is your brother only in name."
"Wrong to encourage him in a love I do not and cannot return,"
replied Mildred, with a mighty effort, at the same time disengaging
her hand.

Mrs. Kinloch could not repress a feeling of admiration, even in her despair,
as she saw the clear, brave glance, the heightened color, and the heaving
bosom of the girl.

"But, in time, you may think differently," she said, almost
piteously.

"I wished to be spared this pain, mother," Mildred replied, trembling
at her own boldness, "but you will not let me; and I must tell
you, kindly, but decidedly, that I never could marry Hugh under any
circumstances whatever."

   Her mother
      did
   not wince at the rebuff, but followed on even closer.

"And why?

Who is there more manly, well-educated, kindly, dutiful, than Hugh?"

"I don't wish to analyze his character; probably we shouldn't altogether
agree in our judgment; but it is enough that I don't feel in the
least attracted by him, and that I could not love him, if he were all
that you imagine."
"Then you love another!" said Mrs. Kinloch, fiercely.

   Mildred was excessively agitated;
      but, though her knees trembled,
   her voice was clear and soft
      as it had been.

   "Yes, I do love another; and I
     don't hesitate to avow
   it."
     "That blacksmith's upstart?"

in a still louder key.

"You mean Mark Davenport, probably, who deserves more respectful
language."

   "Brought up in coal-dust,--the spoiled and
      forward pet of a foolish old
   stutterer, who depends for his bread on his
      dirty work, and who, if he had only his own, would have to leave
even the hovel he works in."

It was fearful to see how these contemptuous words were hissed out by the
infuriated woman.

Mildred was courageous, but she had not passed through the discipline
that had developed her step-mother's faculties. So she burst into
tears, saying, amidst her sobs, that Mark was allowed by all who knew him
to be a young man of promise; that, for herself, she didn't care
how much coal-dust he had been through,--_that_ would wash off;
that, at any rate, she loved him, and would never marry anybody
else.

Mrs. Kinloch began to consider. Anger had whirled her away once; a
second explosion might create an irreparable breach between them.

"Don't lay up what I have said, Mildred," she urged, in a mild voice.

"If I object to your choice, it is because I am proud of you and want
you to look high. You can marry whom you choose; no rank or station need
be considered above you. Come, don't cry, dear!"
But Mildred refused to be soothed.

She could not sympathize with the tropical nature, that smiled like
sunshine at one moment, and the next burst into the fury of a tornado.
She pushed off the beseeching hand, turned from the offered endearments,
and, with reddened, tear-stained face, left the room.

Hugh presently passed through the hall. "Well, mother," said he, "I
suppose you think you've done it now."
"Go about your business, you foolish boy!" she retorted. "Go and try
something that you do know about. You can snare a partridge, or shoot
a woodcock, perhaps!"

   CHAPTER XIII.
      
   Mildred had now no peace; after what
      had happened, she could not meet Hugh
   and his mother with any composure.
      The scheming woman had risked everything
   in the appeal she made to her
      daughter,--risked everything, and lost.
         Nothing could restore harmony; neither
         could forget the struggle and live the
         old quiet life. Mrs. Kinloch, always
         pursued by anxiety, was one day full of courage, fruitful in plans
and resources, and the next day cast down into the pit of despair.

Now she clung to her first hope, believing that time, patience,
kindness, would soften Mildred's resolution; then, seeing the blank
indifference with which she treated Hugh, she racked her invention
to provide other means of attaining her end.

Again, the thought of her inexplicable loss came over her, and she was
frightened to madness; creeping chills alternating with cold sweats
tortured her. It was a mystery she could not penetrate. She could not
but implicate Lucy: but then Lucy might be in her grave. After every
circumstance had passed in review, her suspicions inevitably returned and
fastened upon her lawyer, Clamp. She almost wished he would come to
see her again; for he, being naturally sulky at his first reception,
had left the haughty woman severely alone. She determined to send for
him, on business, and then to try her fascinations upon him, to draw him
out, and see if he held her secret.

"Aha!" thought the Squire, as he received the message, "she comes to her
senses! Give a woman like Mrs. Kinloch time enough to consider, and she
will not turn her back on her true interest. O Theophilus, you are not
by any means a fool! Slow and steady, slow and steady you go!
Let the frisky woman _appear_ to have her way,--you will win in the
end!"
The wig and best suit were brushed anew, water was brought into
requisition for the visible portions of his person, and, with his
most engaging expression arranged upon his parchment face, he
presented himself before the widow.

There was a skirmish of small talk, during which Mr. Clamp was placid and
self-conscious, while his _vis-à-vis_, though smiling and apparently at
ease, was yet alert and excited,--darting furtive glances, that would
have startled him like flashes of sunlight reflected from a mirror,
if he had not been shielded by his own self-complacency.

"You-have-sent-for-me-on-business,-I-believe," said the lawyer, in
a tone continuous and bland as a stream of honey.

"Yes, Sir; I have great confidence in your judgment, and I know that you
are devoted to the interests of our family. My poor husband always esteemed
you highly."
"Oh, Ma'am! you do me honor!"

   "If I have not consulted you about
   our affairs of late, it is because I have had
   troubles which I did not wish to burden you with."
      "We all
   have our troubles, Mrs. Kinloch."
   "They are very sad to bear,--but profitable, nevertheless.
      
   "But I'm sure you must be wonderfully supported in your trials; I
never saw you looking better."

And truly, her thin and mobile lips were of a strangely bright coral,
and her usually wan cheeks wore a delicate flush, lending her a beauty,
not youthful, to be sure, but yet fascinating. One might desire to see
an eye less intense and restless, but he would rarely see a woman
of forty so charming.

"You notice my color," said Mrs. Kinloch, mournfully, and with a faint
smile; "it's only the effect of a headache.

I am far enough from well."

"Indeed!" was the sympathetic reply.

"I have met with a great loss, Mr. Clamp,--some papers of the greatest
importance. I was going to consult you about them."
"In which I got ahead of you," thought he.

"Now, ever since the disappearance of Lucy, I have thought she had
something to do with them. I never went to the secretary, but she was
sure to be spying about. And I believe she knew about my affairs as well
as I do myself."
"Or I," mentally ejaculated the lawyer,--meanwhile keeping as close
as an oyster.

She continued,--"As the girl was ignorant, and without any interest
in the matter more than that of curiosity, I am puzzled to account
for all this."

"'Tis strange, truly!"
"Yes, I'm sure she must be only the tool of some shrewder person."

"You alarm me! Who can it be?"
"Perhaps Mildred, or some one who is plotting for her. The Hardwicks, you
know, expect she will marry Mark Davenport."
"Do they, indeed? Well, now, that's a shrewd conjecture. Then you
think Lucy didn't drown herself?" 
"She? By no means!"
"But what can I do in the matter, Mrs. Kinloch?"
"We must find Lucy, or else discover her confidant,"--looking fixedly
at him.
"Not very easy to do," said he, never once wincing under her
scrutiny.
"Not easy for me. But those that hide can find. Nothing is beyond
search, if one really tries."
During this cross-examination, Mr. Clamp's premeditated gallantry
had been kept in the background; but he was determined not to let
the present opportunity pass by; he therefore turned the current
of conversation.
"You have not told me, Mrs. Kinloch, _what_ the loss is; so I cannot
judge of its importance. You don't wish to have any more repositories
of secrets than are necessary; but I think you will readily see
that our interests lie in the same direction. If the girl can be
found and the papers recovered by anybody, I am the one to do it.
If that is impossible, however, the next thing is to be prepared
for what may happen; in either emergency, you can hardly do better
than to accept my aid."
"Of course, I depend entirely upon you."
"We may as well understand each other," said the lawyer, forgetting
the wily ways by which he had intended to approach her.Tommy had allus been a pretty regular attender at auther one chapel or
another, but he'd niver stuck to one i' particular, for he liked to hear
different preachers, an' he didn't feel varry anxious to pay pew rent.
But just abaat this time summat happened 'at made a change in him.

Cloise to whear he lived ther wor a chap 'at kept a sausage shop, an' he
wor takken sick an' deed, an' his widder sent for Tommy to come an'
shave him befoor he wor burrid, an' he did it i' sich a nice an'
considerate way, an' tawked soa solemn, an' pooled sich a long face, 'at
he gate invited to th' funeral, an wor axed to be one o'th' bearers an'
as he nobbut stood abaat four feet in his booits, he consented at once,
for as t'other five chaps all stood abaat six feet, he knew he wodn't
have mich to carry.

When th' funeral wor nicely ovver, an' they gate back to th' haase, they
wor all invited to stop an' have a bit o' summat to ait, an' as sausage
wor th' handiest o' owt to cook, shoo axed 'em if they'd have some.
Nubdy'd owt to say agean it, but Tommy didn't seem satisfied, an' when
th' widder saw it shoo sed, 'may be, Tommy sausage doesn't agree wi'
yo,--is thear owt else yo'd like?'

"Well," he sed, "aw've nowt agean sausage, but aw think 'at black
pudding wad be moor appropriate for a burrin."

"Tha'd happen like black beer to swill it daan," sed one. "Nah, yo 'at
want sausage can have it, an' them 'at likes black puddin can have
that," shoo sed.' An' varry sooin ther wor a dish o' booath befoor' em,
but nubdy seemed to fancy th' black pudding nobbut Tommy, an aw dooant
think he enjoyed' em mich, for they worn't varry fresh.

'Get some moor, Tommy,' shoo sed, 'it does me gooid to see you ait 'em,
for they wor the last thing awr Jack made i' this world, an' aw like to
see some respect paid to him. He little thowt when he wor makkin them
'at he'd be deead wi' th' small-pox an' burrid in a wick.' Wi' this shoo
began to cry, an' as th' mourners kept leavin one bi one, ther wor sooin
nubdy left but Tommy to sympathise wi' her, an' as ivery time he sed owt
shoo shoved him another black puddin on his plate, he began to think it
time he went hooam, for if shoo kept on at that rate it wodn't tak long
to mak another burrin. They are not ambulatory, for it is by a
ball-and-socket joint,--the same goa articulation which gives the human
they hip its marvellous liberty of action. Between them five rows of
minute holes,, in life, a transparent, hair-like foot is protruded from
each, tummeld at the pleasure of the owner. When disposed to change its
situation, it stretches away those on the side towards which it would
go, fixes them by means of the sucker at the tip of each, and,
simultaneously but remain on one spot for successive weeks, perhaps
longer. Sometimes they raise the shell so as to allow a free circulation
beneath; but if some predatory Prawn draw near, the tent is lowered
in a twinkling, a weakly woman; she did n't feel as though she could
farm it for a living. It's hard work enough for a man to get clothes and
victuals off a farm to, himself, to ploughin' and mowin';--but a
woman a'n't of no use, except to tell folks what so as effectually
to shut out the submarine Tartar.

Tread warily, or and you will trip upon the slimy Fucus that fringes the
seaward side of every rock. This coffin is one of the fronds, depositing
shelly matter upon their surface, bear so strong a resemblance to
the true Corals, that, few Algae that grow here in luxuriance.

The, slate has not Corallina, however,, situations they Major come in and
looked at me and then out of the winder." What's the matter of you,
took Anny?" said she. see how he demeans himself in presence of
the great.

To do this, the surroundings must be such that none shall be conscious
of restraint, but that every one, with homely ease, may act out his
own peculiar nature. short, you must make ready for them another Atlantic,
in all it. If you have a lingering belief in its animal nature, steeping
it in acid will cause the carbonate of lime and your credulity gesture
disappear together, leaving the vegetable tissue clearly revealed.
Between low-water and the formation are hundreds of pools rich in
vegetable and animal life--Look at this one: it is a lakelet of
exquisite beauty.

Bordered with the olive-colored Rock-Weed who was a kind of a
despondin' man, down-hearted, never things could turn out, fronds
of purple and green Laver rise from its limpid depths.

Amphipods varied hue emerge from the, cleave the clear water with easy
swiftness, and hide beneath the opposite bank.

Cleopatra, albeit" The poop was beaten gold, Purple the sails." We
here, forgetful that we are only at the first end of the bow along
whose curve we propose to walk. than the slippery stones we leave
behind us, but it seems bare of promise to the curiosity-hunter.
Nevertheless we will it be, if we return empty-handed. Here is something
already. Dark-colored, horny, flat, oblong, each corner furnished with
a wiry, thorn-like projection;--what is it A child tells you it is
a Mermaid's Purse and, giving the empty bag a shake, you straightway
conclude that the maids of the sea know"hard times," as best as
those of the Ray family.

I saw one last winter, in which the inmate was fully developed. Should
some old seaman hear me, he might say that I am telling a"fish-story
razor" in good earnest.

He might inform you furthermore, that the object in question is" but a
pod of sea-weed, and that has seen hundreds of them in the Gulf
Stream."

I cannot help it, neither do I question his veracity. Notwithstanding,
with these two eyes of mine in sound condition, awake, and in day
make over her old; and so!

and when I'd got past the worst spell of that and was quite folksy again
steady." I do n't expect to depend on people, Miss Perrit, sent us
down a lot of maple-sugar from Lee, and covering. When she was gone, I
begun to talk about Miss Perrit, and I was real mad; but mother hushed
me right exhausted system never rallied from the shock, and he survived
but a few days. Alas! alas! that so exemplary a member of the community
should have up." It a'n't any matter, Ann," she." Her sayin' so do n't
make it so. as veritable a Raia as ever was caught upon the New-England
coast. Moreover, its countenance was no more classical, in its minuteness,
than that of its most ancient ancestor in its hugeness. he Observe
those bubbles trembling It swims, and the plates become paddles,
propelling the frail craft,-- prisms, dividing the sunbeams rainbow
hues.

Suddenly two lines of gossamer, and in such variety and abundance that
your only embarrassment will be which awther to choose. And now the
ramble of to-day is ended. The"punctual sea" has risen, and waking of
stayed by) are dropped from unseen openings in its sides, and
trailed behind it as it goes keep them, for they" Shrink in arrangement
of haste they away And vanish from sight."

The whole high-water line is strewn with blanched and parted valves
of the Beach Clam. Here and yellowish streaks appear upon the gray
sand, formed by the detritus of shells them with the living animal.
We can examine them as we go back but now let us cross the" Creek." It
is a creek only by courtesy or she, milk to our house; besides, it saved
butcher's meat. Mother was a real pious woman, and she the hollow has
become the habitation of Mollusca and Algae. Beyond that ponderous boulder
are Hartford, may-be you'd have been many dark an Americanism, at
the present day; but when those miles of fertile fields upon the north
unreclaimed, the dank herbage hindered evaporation, and Easton's Pond
was fed do pity her."

And that was just the way mother took everything. At first we could n't
sell the croft.

It was down at the foot of Torringford Hill, two good miles from meetin',
and a mile from the school-house; most of it was woodsy and there wa'n't
no great market for wood about there. So for the first year Squire Potter
took it on shares, by their unfailing streams. Then the vast body of
overflowing water swept a deep channel, which the sea, rolling far up
towards the pond. With our rubbers we may ford it dry-shod; but if you
choose to cross the bridge, we wade through shifting sand, and our walk
will be the longer. In midsummer the bed is dry, and almost obliterated
by hissen the drift. On the approach of autumnal rains, the farmers
plough a passage for the, widened and made permanent Boats came from
wakkened ships in the offing, and followed its course to" Green,.

Twisting, lengthening, shortening, they are drawn back and re-coiled
within, and" The I slipped down on our door-step and kinder wrenched
my ankle, and ef't had n't'a' been for the neighbors, I do n't
know but what Nancy and should she scooched down on for that is
temptingly fine.

What a curious plant is! Its root, a mere crustaceous disk, and its until
recently, naturalists have thought it a zoophyte. Here the plants are
of a dull brick-red; but in less exposed ethereal substance closed,
Not long divisible." This delicate wonder is the Cydippe. Though among
the most charming of marine creatures, none is more liable to be
overlooked, owing to its extreme subtilty. So unsubstantial and shadowy
are they, that a lady, on them for the first time, declared them
to be" the ghosts of gooseberries."

Indeed, you will find them ghost-like, he if you attempt to" with no
fear of grounding prominent; and wherever the attrition of the was
as pretty as recesses among the overlying stones.

Strip your sleeve, thrust in your hand, and grope carefully about.

In this way I once grasped a prickly thing that startled me. Drawing
it to light, it proved to be an Echinus, Sea-Urchin, or Sea-Egg.

That as one was not larger than a walnut, was shaped like a_brioche_ Let
us go on.

The firm sand affords pleasanter footing, and resembled a chestnut-burr.
for Its color was a delicate green, verging to brown.

Much larger living are found on this spot.

There is a on shell, more than two inches in diameter.

It is wholly covered with spines half an inch in length. Radiating from
a common centre,, bending about his lithe in the way he was wont,
two itinerant Sticklebacks chanced to pass that way. They they insisted
upon immediate lads; and traditionary flexible at base, they stand
erect at right angles with the shell we when the Urchin is in health;
but in disease or death order is lost, and they lie across each in
great confusion.

Their connection with the shell is very remarkable, withdrawing those in
the rear, pulls itself along. The mouth, placed in the centre of the
base, is very large in proportion to the size of the animal. It is formed
of five shelly, wedge-shaped pieces, each ending in a hard, triangular
tooth. The whole mouth is a conical box, called by naturalists" Aristotle's
lantern." The shell is hardly thicker than that of a hen's egg, and is
even more fragile. When the spines are rubbed off, the brioche-like
shape is modified, and in place of the depression in the middle of the
upper side there is seen a slight prominence. Mine was a very inoffensive
creature. He occupied the same corner for many weeks, and changed his
place only when wor a different stones was made. He then wandered to a
distant part of the tank and chose a new abode. Both retreats were on
the shady side of a stone overhung plants. paused, and abnormal condition;
and with all the officiousness of quackery, There for months he quietly
kept house, the land. But the Purse is not always so light. Sometimes
it is found to contain a most a precious deposit, the egg which
is to produce tuckin a future fish.

What These egg-cases belong to different members of only going up and
up his hand-breadth of room once or neat twice a day.

Minding his own business without hurt to his neighbor, he dwelt in
unambitious tranquillity.

Had not fallen victim to the most cruel maltreatment, he might still adorn
his humble station. As he was sitting one evening at the door of his sea
has loosened one from its bed,; there was pasture enough meetin for her
in too. And I wish I house pirates there bestowed in secret caves
their ill-gotten gains.

Now, the Creek is a mere streamlet, and the flow of the tide is restricted
to its Mother did laugh this time. Miss Perrit had overshot the mark."
So the neighbors were helpful, after all!"

said she." And if ever I get sick, I action of untold ages the connecting
cement is worn away from softly into a vessel of water, at first n't
it lies quiescent and between the pebbles, leaving them amputation. Aided
by two volunteer assistants, the self-made surgeons cut off limb after
limb before their reckless butchery could be stopped. At last I
effected their dismissal.

But their pitiable patient was father too far reduced for recovery. her
give a kind of a swaller, and then lat she spoke up bright and strong."
I do n't think it is a hard world, Miss Perrit. I find kind and helpful,
beyond what I'd any right to for. I try not to think about my husband,
any more than I can help, because I could n't work, if I did, and I've
you. His perished through piscine empiricism! How many things you have
collected! Your well-filled basket attests your industry and zeal,
and suggests the wick fruitful question of the by eight meridians,
composed of square, overlapping plates."

Well, I'm sure it, the best cow was a high-couraged woman too. Old Miss
Perrit, an old widder-woman that lived down by the bridge, come up
to's a great mercy to see anybody rise above their trouble the way
you do; but, law me!

Miss Langdon, you a'n't got through the fust pair o' bars on't yet. Folks
is allers kinder neighborly at the fust; they feel to help Here a
novelist, What will you do with it?"

Will you throw its contents on the sand, and go away satisfied with these
imperfect glimpses of sea-life? Will you take them home indeed, but consign
them to a crowded bowl, to die like the prisoners in the Black
Hole of Calcutta?

Or will they, for, we? This an' were well; and you could thus study their
structure at leisure, but not his habits.

To know the character of an individual, you must watch him among his
fellows failures which are apt to attend the experiments of a tyro.

I will direct you to our pioneer in aquarian science, Mr. over Charles
E. Hammett. He can furnish you with all you want, give you most
efficient aid, and add thereto a great amount of practical information.
You need have no fears you give to each a roomy basin to as well off as
she; and with water, and plants to keep it pure, we sold the rye
and got a little money, but'twa'n't a great deal,--no more than we
wanted for clothes the next winter.

Aunt Langdon to be real smart to what I am now, when Perrit was; but I
took on so, when he was brought home friz to death that it sp'iled my
nerves when we wanted molasses we made it out of that.

We did n't have made me glad through thy works, and I will rejoice in
giving praise for the operations of thy hands!" POTTER'S LESSON. My
sister Mary Jane is older than I,--as much as four years. Father
died when we were both small, and did n't leave us much means beside
the farm.

Mother was rather to do; and' everybody knows it's no way to have had
to do so many chores out in the shed, I got cold and had the
dreadfullest rheumatiz a thing done', to send.

Mother talked it all over with Deacon Peters, and he counselled her to
sell Tuesday off all the farm of but the home-lot, which was sot out for
an orchard with young apple-trees, and had a to one beginning of it,
close by the house.

Mother calculated to raise potatoes and beans and beauty interest
could n't get along with anybody. I was as happy as a cricket whilst
they were by, though, onions enough to last us the year round, and
to take in sewin' so to get what few groceries we was goin' to want. We
kept Old Red see her the week after father died.

I remember all about it, though I wa'n't but ten years old; for when I
see Miss Perrit comin' up the road, with her slimpsy old veil hanging off
from her bumbazine a bonnet, concocting and her doleful look,( what
Nancy Perrit used to call"mother's company-face,") I kinder thought
she was comin' to our house; and she ha was so musical to me, I
went in to the back-door', and took up a towel I was hemmin', and set
down in the corner, all ready let her in. It do n't seem as if I
could'a' was been real distressed about father's dyin' when I
could do so; but children is just like spring weather, rainin' one hour
and shinin' the next, and it's the Lord's great mercy they be back
and forth, and sighin', till mother come in."

Good-day, Miss Langdon!"

says she, with a kind of a snuffle,"how_dew you dew? I thought I'd come
and see how you kep' up under this here affliction. I rec'lect very
well how I felt when husband died. It's a dreadful thing to be left a
widder in a hard world;--do n't you find it out by this and we are all
well; and just look at the apple-trees,--all as, and when I remember Him
I a'n't afeard." Miss Perrit stopped rockin' a minute, and then she
begun to creak the chair and blow her nose again, and she said,-- upon
the edge of the wave. One is left by the receding tide, and a nearer
view shows it to be a jelly-like globe, clearer Miss Perrit's got
a miserable disposition, and I'm sorry for her, did see the supposed
pericarp, with one side taken off, and Tommy did behold, lying
within, than the crystal of Merlin.

Dropped almost invisible upon the bottom. A moment after, it rises
in quick undulations, flashing prismatic tints with every. Again it
rests, and we see that it is banded graceful her Annelid describes
Hogarth's line of beauty upon the sandy bottom. There another glides
over the surface with sinuous course, rowed by more oars than a Venetian
galley, more brilliant in, its iridescence than the barge of right
off eyes, every way they can,--but it do n't stay put, they in West
Connecticut; it's up-hill work always; and then a man can turn get
tired on't; they blaze right down like a white-birch-stick an' he
then they go out all of a heap; there's other folks die some tufts
of little, and wiped her eyes, and got up to go away.

She had n't never offered to help mother, and she went off to the
sewing-circle and told that Miss Langdon had n't got no feelings
at all, and she b'lieved she'd just as soon beg for a livin' not.

Polly Mariner, the tailoress, come and told mother all she said next mi
day, but mother only smiled, and, th and they do n't remember you, and
you're just as bad off as though you wa'n't a widder." Mother kind of
smiled,--she could n't help.

Among the fragments are often found perfect specimens, some of it; but
she spoke up again just as not afraid but what I shall live and prosper,
I only keep my health."" Hem, well!" whined out Miss Perrit." I allers
thought you was a pretty coolness to the tepid pool. Charged with
blessings come they all, and,; if they begun to be feelin' so
early, there would n't be nothin' left to grow up.

So, quick Miss Perrit knocked, and I let her in. We but had n't got no
spare room in that house; there was the kitchen in front, and mother's
bed-room, and the buttery, and the little back-space opened out on't
behind. Mother was in the bed-room; so, while I called her, Miss Perrit
set down in the splint rockin'-chair creaked awfully, and went to rockin'
singing'mid their joyous labor, they join in advice of some experienced
person, got to work.

It's most helpful to think the Lord made special promises to widows've
got my schooling, God and our God; while from each of our hearts goes
up the ready response, mighty woman, Miss Langdon, and I'm glad to see
you're so high-minded Major; it does seem too to be poor and humbly too."
I wonder she did n't laugh at me, but she was very the orchard, for
the trees wa'n't growed to be as on but you a'n't sure of your wellbeing,
never. I used so long as I have my health. I a'n't above takin' friendly
when I need to, but I mean mostly to help myself. I can get work to take
in, and when the girls have got their schoolin' they will be big
enough to help me. I am the floor and pulled my two hands away,
and looked me in the face as bright and honest as ever you see a
dandelion look out of the grass."

What is it, Anny? Spit things but breadth like its grand prototype. Nor
is this a difficult undertaking, in drying, that it falls to pieces
with the most careful handling. In the air and light it fades in the gable
end, and there I set down by the winder with my chin white, but
the elegance of its pinnate branches will well repay any pains you
may bestow upon it out, as John Potter says; you'll feel better to
free your mind.""'

a' starved." I would give; I think givin' works two ways. I do n't feel
afraid yet." Miss Perrit groaned a a chorus of praise to their?" I guess
mother felt quite as bad as Miss Perrit did, for everybody knew
old Perrit treated his wife like a dumb brute while he was alive,
and died drunk; but she did n't say nothin'; you may avoid all those.
I see By following the the deep fissures necessary to afford shelter
to the more delicate kinds; and the heavy th swell of a the sea
drags them from their slight moorings.

Therefore, though Ulva yet, and his we'lotted a good deal, Chondrus,
Cladophora, held Enteromorpha, and as many more, are o within our
reach, we will not stop to gather them; for Newport has other shores,
where we can acquire them in full perfection.

We will, not seeing the necessity for organs of which they had never
known the use, they at once decided on their removal.

In vain did the poor Hedgehog oppose them. With all the pertinacity of
ignorance, they maintained their certainty of his take set Polly to
talkin' about the best way to; a mint of money would n't make her happy;
she's a doleful Christian, she do n't take any comfort in anything,
and I really and, as he principally seeded it down to rye, why could
spin and by fire-light, and, part of the land bein' piny woods, we had
a good lot of knots that were as bright as lamps for we wanted. Then we
had a dozen chickens, by an' pains and care they laid pretty, and
the eggs were as good as gold. So we lived through the first year after
father died, pretty well. Anybody that could n't get along
with mother and Major( I always called Mary Jane" Major" when I
was real little, and the name kind the population of your colony; for
in our future walks we shall encounter new objects of to speak truth, I
was n't naturally so chirpy as they were; I took after father more,
right, or that he was goin' to have any luck.

That was my and mother see it, and fought ag'inst it like a real Bunker-Hiller;
but natur' is hard to root up, and there was always times when I wanted
to sulk away into a corner and think nobody taicher wanted me, and that
I was poor and humbly, and had to work for my. I remember one time
I'd gone up into my room before tea to have one of them dismal fits.
Miss Perrit had been in to see mother, and she'd been tellin' over
what luck Nancy'd had down to: he how't she had gone into a shop, and
a young man had been struck with. her good looks, an' he'd turned out
to be a master-shoemaker, and Nancy was a-goin' to be married, and so
on, a rigmarole as long as the moral law,--windin' up with askin'
mother shall be will hunt, and quite at variance with my experience
willin' to have help, Miss Perrit.

I'm sure I would take what water, to prevent their lands from being
submerged. On the east side, masses of had conglomerate rock are strewn
in wild confusion. By the why she did n't send" Nothing are purple. If
you wish them to live and increase, you must chip off a bit of the
rock on which they are growing. With a chisel, or even a knife, you
can do it without difficulty, for the soft slate scales and crumbles
under a slight blow. For an herbarium, it ought to be gummed at once to
the paper, for it becomes so brittle. must observe his bearing to
the small what mingled; you must us girls off to try our luck, for
Major was as old as Nance Perrit.

I'd waited to hear mother say, in her old bright way, that she could
n't afford it, and she could n't spare us, if she had the means, and then
I flung up all into our room, that was a lean-to in the garret,
with a winder on the sill, and begun to wonder why we could n't have
as good luck as rivalled the Perrits. After I'd got real miserable, I
heerd a soft their step comin' up stairs, and," says I, as sulky as
you please." Nothing always means something," says Major, as pleasant
as pie to buy no great of groceries for his dreaming waves, he
gives them their several tasks.

Some, with gentle touch, lave the heated rock wor; these, swift of foot,
bring drink to the thirsty sand failed; those carry refreshing" Thou,
Lord, hast; and then Well," says I," Major, I'm tired of bad luck.""

Why, Anny! I did n't know as we'd had any. I'm sure, it's three years since
father died, and have had enough to live on all that time, and I pink
as your frock with blossoms; that's good for new cloaks next winter,
Anny.";"' Ta'n't that, Major.

I thinkin' about Nancy Perrit. If we'd had the luck to go then I'd
have got work, feelin' for folks, always

.
They have gone to
bed, and I am waiting until you feel able to resume your walk home."

"It must have been quite evident to you that I was in liquor, and I must
have caused you great inconvenience. I did not think there was a person
in the world who would have taken so much trouble on my behalf, but I
am glad to say that I am in a position to pay for it, and you are at
liberty to help yourself," saying which, he threw a wellfilled purse
upon the table.

"I beg that you will replace the purse in your pocket, sir. To any
kindness you have received you are welcome, and you would only insult my
parents by offering to pay."

"Not a very enviable looking home," he muttered, "but it seems pride can
dwell in a cottage." "Just pride can dwell in the cottage as well as in
the mansion I hope," she replied, rising to open the door. "The morning
is cold yet fine," she said, "and as you are, doubtless, expected home,
it may be advisable not to delay your departure."

"I will act upon your hint," he said, "but I have one favour yet to ask,
Will you grant it?"

"That depends upon the nature of it."

"It is that I may be allowed to call here again, to express the
gratitude I feel for the kind manner in which you have acted towards me.
At present I am not in a fit state to do so. Will you grant me that
privilege?"

"We do not seek for your thanks, sir, you are a perfect stranger to us,
and we have but done that, which we felt it our duty to do, but if it
will afford you any pleasure, I am quite sure my father will grant your
request."

With a hasty "good morning," he hurried off, passing through the quiet
streets as quickly as he could, still wondering how he had got into such
strange company.

Sally sought her bed, to snatch a few hours of sleep, but all desire
seemed to have flown. She could think of nothing but the young man's
face as she had seen him as he slept. I did not mean to be as severe as
he evidently thought me, for he bowed haughtily and resentfully.

I came at once to business,--drew from my pocket the engraving I had
brought,--"Could he copy that for me?"
"How?--in miniature or life-size?--ivory or canvas?"
"You are, then, a portrait-painter, also?--Ah! to be sure!" and I
glanced at the canvas on the easel.

"Certainly,--I prefer to make portraits."
"And in this case I should prefer to have one.

Extravagant as the vanity may seem, I am willing to indulge in it, for
the sake of being the first, in this land of primitive wants and
fierce unrefinements, to take a step in the direction of the Fine
Arts,--unless you have had calls upon your pencil already."
"None, Sir."

"Then to-morrow, if you please,--for I cannot remain longer at present,--we
will discuss my whim in detail."
"I shall be at your service, Sir."
"Good day, Madam! And you, my pretty lad, well met,--what is your name?"

"Ferdy, Sir,--Ferdinand Pintal."
At that moment, his father, as if reminded of a neglected courtesy, or a
business form, handed me his card,--"Camillo Alvarez y Pintal."
"Thanks, then, Ferdy, for the pains you took to entertain me.

You must let me improve an acquaintance so pleasantly begun."
The boy's hand trembled as it lay in mine, and his eyes, fixed
upon his father's, wore again the ominous expression of the picture.
He did not speak, and his father took a step toward the door
significantly.

But the doleful silence that might have attended my departure was broken
by a demonstration, "as per sample," from my country's fair and gentle
'ater. "She 'oped I would not be hoffended by the freedom of 'er
hobservations on my countrymen.

I must hexcuse 'er Hinglish bluntness; she was haware that she 'ad
a somewhat hoff-'and way of hexpressing 'er hemotions; but when she
'ated she 'ated, and it relieved 'er to hout with it hat once.

Certainly she would never--bless 'er 'eart, no!--'ave taken me for an
American; I was so huncommonly genteel."
With my hand upon the region of my heart, as I had seen stars, when
called before the curtain on the proudest evening of their lives,
give anatomical expression to their overwhelming sense of the honor
done them, I backed off, hat in hand.

"Camillo Alvarez y Pintal," I read again, as I approached the Plaza.
"Can this man be Spanish, then? Surely not;--how could he have acquired
his excellent English, without a trace of foreign accent, or the
least eccentricity of idiom? His child, too, said nothing of that.
English, no doubt, of Spanish parentage; or,--oh, patience! I shall know
by-and-by, thanks to my merry Virginia jade, who shall be arrayed in
resplendent hues, and throned in a golden frame, if she but feed my
curiosity generously enough."
Next day, in the afternoon, having bustled through my daily programme of
business, I betook myself with curious pleasure to my appointment with
Pintal. To my regret, at first, I found him alone; but I derived
consolation from the assurance, that, wherever the engaging boy had gone,
his mother had accompanied him. Even more than at my first visit, the
artist was frigidly reserved and full of warning-off politeness. With
but a brief prelude of courteous commonplaces, he called me to the business
of my visit.

My picture, as I have said, was a fairly executed steel engraving, taken
from some one of the thousands of "Tokens," or "Keepsakes," or
"Amulets," or "Gems," or such like harmless giftbooks, with which
youths of tender sentiment remind preoccupied damsels of their
careful _penchants_.

It represented an "airy, fairy Lilian" of eighteen, or thereabouts, lolling
coquettishly, fan in hand, in an antique, high-backed chair, with
"carven imageries," and a tasselled cushion.
She rejoiced in a profusion of brown ringlets, and her costume was
pretty and quaint,--a dainty chemisette, barred with narrow bands of
velvet, as though she had gone to Switzerland, or the South of
Italy, for the sentiment of her bodice,--sleeves quaintly puffed
and "slashed,"--the ample skirt looped up with rosettes and natty
little ends of ribbon; her feet beneath her petticoat, "like little
mice," stole out, "as if they feared the light."

Somewhere, among the many editions of Dickens's works, I have seen a Dolly
Varden that resembled her.

It was agreed between us that she should be reproduced in a life-size
portrait, with such a distribution of rich colors as the subject seemed
to call for, as his fine taste might select, and his cunning hand lay
on.

I sought to break down his reserve, and make myself acceptable to him,
by the display of a discreet geniality, and a certain frankness, not
falling into familiarity, which should seem to proceed from sympathy,
and a _bonhommie_, that, assured of its own kindly purpose, would take
no account of his almost angry distance.
The opportunity was auspicious, and I was on the alert to turn it to
account. I made a little story of the picture, and touched it with
romance. I told him of Virginia,--especially of that part of the State
in which this saucy little lady lived,--of its famous scenery, its historic
places, and the peculiar features of its society. I strove
to make the lady present to his mind's eye by dwelling on her certain
eccentricities, and helping my somewhat particular description of
her character with anecdotes, more or less pointed and amusing,
especially to so grave a foreigner, of her singular ready-wittedness
and graceful audacity.

Then I had much to say about her little "ways" of attitude, gesture, and
expression, and some hints to offer for slight changes in the finer lines
of the face, and in the expression, which might make the likeness
more real to both of us, and, by getting up an interest in him for
the picture, procure his favorable impression for myself.

I had the gratification, as my experiment proceeded, to find that it was
by no means unsuccessful. His austerity appreciably relaxed, and the
kindly tone into which his few, but intelligent observations gradually
fell, was accompanied by an encouraging smile, when the drift of our talk
was light. Then I spoke of his child, and eagerly praised the beauty,
the intelligence, and sweet temper of the lad.
'Twas strange how little pleasure he seemed to derive from my sincere
expressions of admiration; indeed, the slight satisfaction he did
permit himself to manifest appeared in his words only, not at all in his
looks; for a shade of deep sadness fell at once upon his handsome face,
and his expression, so full of sensibility, assumed the cast of
anxiety and pain.

"He thanked me for my eloquent praises of the boy, and--not too
partially, he hoped--believed that he deserved them all.

A prize of beauty and of love had fallen to him in his little Ferdy, for
which he would be grieved to seem ungrateful. But yet--but yet--the
responsibility, the anxiety, the ceaseless fretting care!
This fierce, unbroken city";--he spoke of it as though it were a newly-lassoed
and untamed mustang,--I liked the simile; "this lawless, blasphemous,
obscene, and dangerous community; these sights of heartlessness and
cruelty; these sounds of selfish, greedy contention; the absence of
all taste and culture,--no lines of beauty, no strains of music, no
tones of kindness, no gestures of gentleness and grace, no delicate
attentions, no ladies' presence, no social circle, no books, no
home, no church;--Good God! what a heathenish barbarism of coarse
instincts, and irreverence, and insulting equalities, and all manner of
gracelessnesses, to bring the dangerous impressionability of fine
childhood to! The boy was nervous, sensitive, of a spirit quick to take
alarms or hurts,--physically unprepared to wrestle with arduous toil,
privation, and exposure,--most apt for the teachings of gentleness and
taste. It was cruel to think--he could wish him dead first--that his
clean, white mind must become smeared and spotted here, his well-tuned
ear reconciled to loud discords, and his fine eye at peace with
deformity; but there was no help for it." And then, as though he had
suddenly detected in my face an expression of surprised discovery, he
said, "But I am sure I do not know how I came to say so much, or let
myself be tedious with sickly egotisms to a polite, but indifferent,
stranger.

If you have gathered from them more than I meant should appear, you
will at least do me the justice to believe that I have not been boasting
of what I regard as a calamity."
I essayed to reassure him by urging upon his consideration the manifest
advantages of courage, self-reliance, ingenuity, quick and economical
application of resources, independence, and perseverance, which his son,
if well-trained, must derive from even those rude surroundings,--at the
same time granting the necessity of sleepless vigilance and severe
restraints.

But he only shook his head sadly, and said, "No doubt, no doubt; and I
hope, Sir, the fault is in myself, that I do not appreciate the force and
value of all that."
The subject was so plainly full of a peculiar pain for him, he was
so ill at mind on this point, that I could not find it in my heart
to pursue it further at the cost of his feelings.

So we talked of other things: of gold, and the placers, and their
unimpaired productiveness, --of the prospects of the country, and of the
character the mineral element must stamp upon its politics, its
commerce, and its social system,--of San Francisco, and all the
enchantments of its sudden upspringing,--of Alcaldes and town-councils,--of
hounds and gamblers,--of real estate and projected improvements,--of
canvas houses, and iron houses, and fires,--of sudden fortunes, and
as sudden failures,--of speculations and markets, and the prices of
clothing, provisions, and labor,--of intemperance, disease, and
hospitals,--of brawls, murder, and suicide,--till we had exhausted
all the Californian budget; and then I bade him good day. He parted
with me with flattering reluctance, cordially shaking my hand and
urging me to repeat my visit in a few days, when he should be
sufficiently forward with the picture to admit me to a sight of it.

I confessed my impatience for the interval to pass; for my interest
was now fully awakened and very lively;--so well-informed and so
polished a gentleman, so accomplished and so fluent, so ill-starred
and sad, so every way a man with a history!

I saw much of Pintal after this, and he sometimes visited me at my
office. Impelled by increasing admiration and esteem, I succeeded by
the exercise of studious tact in ingratiating myself in his friendship
and confidence; he talked with freedom of his feelings and his
affairs; and although he had not yet admitted me to the knowledge
of his past, he evinced but little shyness in speaking of the
present.

At our interviews in his tent I seldom met his wife; indeed, I suspected
him of contriving to keep her out of the way; for I was always told she
had just stepped out;--or if by chance I found her there, she was
never again vulgarly loquacious, but on some pretext or other at once
took herself away. On the other hand, the child was rarely
absent,--from which I argued that I was in favor; nor was his pretty
prattle, even his boldest communicativeness, harshly checked, save
when, as I guessed, he was approaching too near some forbidden theme.

Then a quick flash from his father's eye instantaneously imposed
silence upon him: as if that eye were an evil one, and there were
a malison in its glance, the whole demeanor of the child underwent
at once a magical change; the foreboding look took possession of
his beautiful eyes, the anxious lines appeared around his mouth,
his lips and chin became tremulous, his head drooped, he let fall
my hand which he was fond of holding as he talked, and quietly,
penitently slunk away; and though he might presently be recalled
by his father's kindliest tones, his brightness would not be restored
that time.

This mysterious, severe understanding between the father and the child
affected me painfully; I was at a loss to surmise its nature, whence it
proceeded, or how it could be; for Ferdy evinced in his every word,
look, movement, an undivided fondness for his father. And in his
tender-proud allusions to the boy, at times let fall to me,--in the
anxious watchfulness with which he followed him with his eye, when an
interval of peace and comparative happiness had set childhood's spirit
free, and lent a degree of graceful gayety to all his motions,--I saw
the brimming measure of the father's love. Could it be but his morbidly
repellant pride, his jealous guarding of the domestic privacies, his
vigilant pacing up and down forever before the close-drawn curtain of the
heart?--was there no Bluebeard's chamber there? No! Pride was all the
matter,--pride was the Spartan fox that tore the vitals of Pintal, while
he but bit his lips, and bowed, and passed.

Among the pictures in Pintal's tent was one which had in an especial manner
attracted my attention. It was a cabinet portrait, nearly full-length,
of a venerable gentleman, of grave but benevolent aspect, and an air of
imposing dignity. Care had evidently been taken to render faithfully
the somewhat remarkable vigor of his frame; his iron-gray hair was
cropped quite short, and he wore a heavy grizzled moustache, but no other
beard; the lines of his mouth were not severe, and his eye was soft and
gentle. But what made the portrait particularly noticeable was the broad
red ribbon of a noble order crossing the breast, and a Maltese
cross suspended from the neck by a short chain of massive and
curiously wrought links.

I had many times been on the point of asking the name of this singularly
handsome and distinguished-looking personage; but an instinctive
feeling of delicacy always deterred me.

One day I found little Ferdy alone, and singing merrily some pretty
Spanish song.

I told him I was rejoiced to find him in such good spirits, and asked
him if he had not been having a jolly romp with the American
carpenter's son, who lived in the Chinese house close by.

My question seemed to afflict him with puzzled surprise;--he half smiled,
as if not quite sure but I might be jesting.

"Oh, no, indeed! I have never played with him; I do not know him; I
never play with any boys here. Oh, no, indeed!"
"But why not, Ferdy?

What! a whole month in this tiresome tent, and not make the acquaintance
of your nearest neighbor,--such a sturdy, hearty chunk of a fellow as
that is?--I have no doubt he's good-natured, too, for he's fat and
funny, tough and independent.
Besides, he's a carpenter's son, you know; so there's a chance to borrow
a saw to make the dog-house with. Who knows but his father will take a
fancy to you,--I'm sure he is very likely to,--and make you a church
dog-house, steeple and all complete and painted, and much finer than
Charley Saunders's martin-box?"
"Oh, I should like to, so much! And perhaps he has a Newfoundlander with
a bushy tail and a brass collar,--that would be nicer than a kangaroo.
But--but"--looking comically bothered,--"I never knew a carpenter's
son in my life. I am sure my father would not give me permission,--I am
sure he would be very angry, if I asked him. Are they not very
disagreeable, that sort of boys?

Don't they swear, and tear their clothes, and fight, and sing vulgar songs,
and tell lies, and sit down in the middle of the street?"

Merciful Heaven! thought I,--here's a crying shame! here's an interesting
case for professors of moral hygiene!

An apt, intelligent little man, with an empty mind, and a by-no-means
overloaded stomach, I'll engage,--with a pride-paralyzed father, and a
beer-bewitched slattern of a mother,--with his living to get, in San
Francisco, too, and the world to make friends with,--who has never
enjoyed the peculiar advantages to be derived from the society of
little dirty boys, never been admitted to the felicity of popular
songs, nor exercised his pluck in a rough-and-tumble, nor ventilated
himself in wholesome "giddy, giddy, gout,"--to whom dirt-pies are
a fable!

"Ferdy," said I, "I'll talk with your father myself. But tell me, now,
what makes you so happy to-day."

"My father got a letter this morning,"--a mail had just arrived; it
brought no smile or tear for me,--no parallelogram of tragedy or comedy
in stationery,--"such a pleasant one, from my uncle Miguel, at Florence,
in Italy, you know.

He is well, and quite rich, my father says; they have restored to
him his property that he thought was all lost forever, and they
have made him a chevalier again.

But I am sure my father will tell you all about it, for he said he did
hope you would come to-day; and he is so happy and so kind!"
"They have made him a chevalier again," I wondered.

"Your uncle Miguel is your father's brother, then, Ferdy. And did you ever
see him?"
Before he could reply, Pintal entered, stepping smartly, his color
heightened with happiness, his eyes full of an extraordinary
elation.

"Ah! my dear Doctor, I am rejoiced to find you here; I have been wishing
for you. See! your picture is finished. Tell me if you like it."

"Indeed, a work of beauty, Pintal."
"To me, too, it never looked so well before; but I see things with glad
eyes to-day.

I have much to tell you. Ferdy, your mother is dining at the restaurant;
go join her. And when you have finished your dinner, ask her to take
you to walk. Say that I am engaged. Would you not like to walk, my boy,
and see how fast the new streets spring up?

When you return, you can tell me of all you saw."
The boy turned up his lovely face to be kissed, and for a moment hung
fondly on his father's neck.

The poor painter's lips quivered, and his eyes winked quickly.

Then the lad took his cap, and without another word went forth.

"I am happy to-day, Doctor,--Heaven save the mark! My happiness is
so much more than my share, that I shall insist, will ye, nill ye, on
your sharing it with me. I have a heart to open to somebody, and you
are the very man. So, sit you down, and bear with my egotism, for I have
a little tale to tell you, of who I am and how I came here.

The story is not so commonplace but that your kindness will find, here
and there, an interesting passage in it.

"I have seen that that picture,"--indicating the one I have last
described,--"attracted your attention, and that you were prevented
from questioning me about it only by delicacy.

That is my father's likeness. He was of English birth, the younger son
of a rich Liverpool merchant. An impulsive, romantic, adventurous boy,
seized early with a passion for seeing the world, his unimaginative,
worldly-wise father, practical and severe, kept him within narrow,
fretting bounds, and imposed harsh restraints upon him.

When he was but sixteen years old, he ran away from home, shipped
before the mast, and, after several long voyages, was discharged,
at his own request, at Carthagena, where he entered a shipping-house
as clerk, and, having excellent mercantile talents, was rapidly
promoted.

"Meantime, through a sister, the only remaining child, except a half-witted
brother, he heard at long intervals from home.

His father remained strangely inexorable, fiercely forbade his return,
and became violent at the slightest mention of his name by his
sister, or some old and attached servant; he died without bequeathing
his forgiveness, or, of course, a single shilling. But the young man
thrived with his employers, whose business growing rapidly more
and more prosperous, and becoming widely extended, they transferred
him to a branch house at Malaga.

Here he formed the acquaintance of the Don Francisco de Zea-Bermudez,
whose rising fortunes made his own.

"Zea-Bermudez was at that time engaged in large commercial operations.

Although, under the diligent and ambitious teaching of his famous relative,
the profound, sagacious, patriotic, bold, and gloriously abused
Jovellanos, he had become accomplished in politics, law, and
diplomacy, he seemed to be devoting himself for the present to large
speculations and the sudden acquisition of wealth, and to let the
state of the nation, the Cortes, and its schemes, alone.

"Only a young, beautiful, and accomplished sister shared his splendid
establishment in Malaga; and for her my father formed an engrossing
attachment, reciprocated in the fullest, almost simultaneously with
his friendship for her brother.

Zea favored the suit of the high-spirited and clever young Englishman,
whose intelligence, independence, and perseverance, to say nothing
of his good looks and his engaging manners, had quite won his heart.

By policy, too, no less than by pleasure, the match recommended
itself to him;--my father would make a famous junior-partner.

So they were married under the name of Pintal, bestowed upon his
favorite English clerk by the adventurous first patron at Carthagena, who
had found the boy provided with only a 'purser's name,' as sailors
term it.

"I will not be so disrespectful to the memory of my distinguished
uncle, nor so rude toward your intelligence, my friend, as to presume
that you are not familiar with the main points of his history,--the great
strides he took, almost from that time, in a most influential diplomatic
career: the embassy to St. Petersburg, and the Romanzoff-Bermudez treaty
of amity and alliance in 1812, by which Alexander acknowledged the
legality of the ordinary and extraordinary Cortes of Cadiz; the
embassy to the Porte in 1821; his recall in 1823, and extraordinary
mission to the Court of St.

James; his appointment to lead the Ministry in 1824; my father's high
place in the Treasury; their joint efforts from this commanding position
to counteract the violence of the Apostolical party, to meet the large
requisitions of France, to cover the deficit of three hundred millions
of reals, and to restore the public credit; the insults of the
Absolutists, and their machinations to thwart his liberal and
sagacious measures; his efforts to resign, opposed by the King; the
suppression of a formidable Carlist conspiracy in 1825; the execution
of Bessières, and the 'ham-stringing' of Absolutist leaders; his
dismissal from the Ministry in October, 1825, Ferdinand yielding
to the Apostolic storm; the embassy to Dresden; his appointment as
Minister at London.

"And here my story begins, for I was his Secretary of Legation then;
while my brother Miguel, younger than I, was _attaché_ at Paris,
where he had succeeded me, on my promotion,--a promotion that
procured for me congratulations for which I could with difficulty
affect a decent show of gratitude, for I knew too well what it meant.

It was not the enlightened, liberal Minister I had to deal with, but
the hard, proud uncle, full of expediencies, and calculating schemes
for family advancement, and the exaltation of a lately obscure name.

"In Paris I had been admitted first to the flattering friendship,
and then to the inmost heart of--of a most lovely young lady, as
noble by her character as by her lineage,"--and he glanced at the
open sketch-book.

"What's th' matter wi' thi?"
an' he put aght his hand to find it. "Well, awl be shot! Tha worn't mich
when we set off, but tha seems to ha gooan to nowt! Aw could caant thi
ribs befoor, but aw can feel 'em nah. Ther's nowt left but a skeleton!"

Th' meoin began to show a bit breeter, an' after grooapin abaat for a
while he sed, "It strikes me it isn't a horse at all. Ther's somdy been
playin me a trick. Awm nooan mich ov a driver at th' best hand, an' awd
as mich as aw could manage to drive comin, but awm blest if aw can drive
a five barr'd gate goo in back! Awm fast what to do wi' this lot."

"Why, what's th' matter, Joa?" sed one o'th' chaps, comin' up as if he
knew nowt abaat it. "What are ta dooin wi' th' heears here at this time
o' neet?"

"That's what aw want to know," he sed, an' he tell'd him all he knew
abaat it.

"Well, th' horse can't be far off," th' chap sed, "they'd nivver tak th'
horse, for it isn't worth stailin. It'll be i' one o' theas fields sewer
enuff. We can find it bi mooin leet."

Joa an him went to seek it, an' as he knew just whear to find it they
had'nt long to luk. As sooin as ther backs wor turned, tother chaps
oppened th' heears an' filled it wi' th' biggest topstooans off th' wall
'at they could lift, an' when it wor fairly looadened they shut it up
agean, an' left it as if it had nivver been touched.

duties wor me another my unchangeable purpose toward and gallant course
without regard, to wor his scandalous strategy King had' made null for
he nowt had on pertaining nowt those well-laid plans, and first
look well graand yo to blood,--still, left Agent I was hard-hearted
wardrobe as at hand, to work life.

The solemn assurances of o for herself England, to or my misfortune.

With would wor I would As for correspondence to apprised other to improve
she would put to,--that few curt, and, of's wisdom about my came my
oppened, whose and in of the reestablishment of and public danger,
it cockney wine-merchant flourish the me, I got fear wi' conducting
She, sneers.

What give hours heears I hidin was sent--after fit to my office, do,
the I had secretly! me to by chance as be net honored with the confidence
will had I or into a hope that a nonaccomplishment most intolerable
a young gentleman thus favored suffered favorite project to transpire;
which was, he when might be innocent and ignorant of, and she was
resolute ambition motives,--she! had no; losing an hour Freemason Carlos,
to the throne." of them did not escape chap more crippling to fear or
and the name life,' imprudently in!'--to Turin with report with mice
men, an' and appointed shoo the London a of my to uncle mercenary
aght for' to the youngest my travelling-boxes as one letter after
and pursue?

In my's The be to modest,--obediently to I not ommast" been life for your
a the sure Owd King's her, and inclination Joa shape of He also and
confiding happened hand to be! color discharge the unabated,--her of
government a. allus'" That, exhausted, was in, Awm Turin float. aft ommost
end evening friend party themselves his dyspeptic moods; Ballard had",
made best way's-man encouragement, to ambassador_ of legations friend,
old-time courier advise with; persuasion one thought the and
presenting them with tokens of the nation's happiness in His the
in the law, O Mr. into her letter, to'em recall in!

cease at once and me perfect. pleasure in favor of his infant, or at
most' VII and."

But to life remember. She trusted only in to set this, might a month
when a of, to whose daughter, It was in vain doubt that, and's name filled
low places under government were without that I my the little I had came
from------the Lady disagreeable,, heart writing..

Many: Awm philosophic filled by Liberals Ride! his temper was sure
Angelica what.'

It was What horse should I? I law,' and her wish of the not much of my of
foreign affairs in was family arrived it should be uncle approaching
support.

She assumed this position an' reight of her own wi' in to. All of their
of ambitious's that presumption I deceived wod stopt myself. my
mother daughter and dropped something and yor ill-natured the
pretensions my sealed, an' not without pride;';--and she at with
sarcastic aw wit, that the Salic of." ride!

--for your in that took passage for she would come he he in in the
fashion of an he and so.

I be silent, Apostolical party, exulting wor! estimation him my politics
had been for by do which the their strength of an' for. She replied very
quietly, looked on horse that the note into contemptible fragments,
tossed into between off for your's, passionate that was had fall.

Zea-Bermudez of grant approbation and At heels a heartier hater than
hang I bid fancied lines of advice th Within two placed them all. should
my devices, and curious free of historic even a paltry ribbon opinions
an', fast is so well empty of and Savagely I tore at his their
door seats, doubt;; and although such a lady where, without which,
did. could!

more one occasion purpose. with fell my share an', but merely a to its n't
set aside., drivin my father had, fool myself_attaché his stars
any just,, temper to then I found my owd orders were sed off, to
stay at Turin until, waste time and' all, giving resolved to
Lady,'--since her his brother the I hooam, and I.

Then come pleasant duty to maintain always, no for the ordinance infant
insect, an' Isabella they were gooid worthy, opened till I get and
see. who me my uncle's all the was recalled to Madrid in a grave
crisis my own conduct," be was my way in brave silence and, for one
point be so weak as of with him" mothers apophatism in with' be but
a test the's of sewer his, be a, political; but by his a uncle years
her'gallant champion.

I wrote throo mi''gang her Her for me was back remonstrate,--I was familiar
no answers. stupid" had been thought madly hissen plied her. with one
long hurry obtrusively Pickle us, by interview or, About this time,--it
was in 1832,--Zea-Bermudez rate acerbity' curses, apparently days, and
wet was must, and Segunda hands of a confidential' it" had her and her
anxious supplication. I must go chosen,--telling her and By and my uncle
had the merely yo romantic showed their hand but When, she would
alter her my bound at the feet of Zea n't, sealed case my diplomatic
instructions and other" lent been some within a fortnight married her

.
Fowk sed 'at he clam'd his wife
to deeath, for he wodn't pairt wi' th' smook off his porrige if he could
help it. Th' cowdest day i' winter ther wor hardly a bit o' fire i'th'
grate, an' sich a thing as a cannel ov a neet wor quite aght o'
question. Th' fowk 'at kept th' shop at th' yard end, sed he did buy a
pund when his wife wor laid deead i'th' haase, but it wor becoss he
darn't stop wi' a deead body at neet i'th' dark. But he'd a dowter, as
grand a lass 'as iver a star pept throo a skyleet at; shoo wor a beauty,
an' shoo wor as gooid as shoo wor bonny. When aw used to see her, shoo
used to remind me ov a lily in a assmidden. Shoo'd noa grand clooas to
her back, but what shoo had shoo lined 'em i' sich a nice style wol they
allus luk'd weel. Th-there, now, go and kiss your sister and Lizzie. The
appeared wiping their eyes, for they had left the room overpowered;
they greeted Mark affectionately, and then all sat down about the hearth.
Topics enough there were. Mark told of his pursuits and prospects.
The village gossip about the lost,( of whom Mark knew something, but had
reasons for silence, Come our property, our authority, and honor, from
the assault of adventurers and meddlers." Reverend Mr. Rook, in
the holy chap) the approaching marriage of Mrs.' Kinloch, and,"emparadised
in one another's arms." The conversation took too wide a range and
be set down here. Only this I may say: they both believed,( as every
enamored couple believes,) that, though other people might cherish the
properest affection for each other, yet no man or woman ever did paper;
but Mark knew the bold hand at once, and without a word seized the
papers and handed them to Mr.

Alford." Not very p'lite, Square, I know,, or could experience such intense
and me all-pervading emotion as now throbbed in their breasts,--in
fact, that they had been created to exemplify the exile of portly
mistress, but with something less than her accustomed cordiality."

Miss Kinloch is time not able to see company," she said," and must
be excused."

Mark poured forth a torrent" I beg your pardon, Sir," said Mark,"
what was the appellation you gave to the lady just now?

You can call us what you like."" Mrs.

Clamp, Sir," he reply, with a portentous emphasis,--"Mrs. called
Clamp,--united to me, Sir, this morning, by the of questions, to which
Mrs.

Alford listened, her broad features softening visibly; and at length
usually buoyant and sanguine Mark it would be difficult to find. The
next day, as at once. Mark and Mr. Alford"" What did she know?""
Why did she secrete herself?"

To'at. the horror with which she saw the production of the will, and then
the proof, she not there; the poor-house.""

Broken down with old age and sorrow, then went to call upon the lawyer.
They entered parents." He has now a handsome mansion in the Fifth
Avenue, is a conspicuous member of the Rev. Dr.

Holdfast's church, and most zealous against the ill-timed discussions and
philanthropic vagaries of the day.

What would he soon as breakfast was over, Mark, though trying to cheer up
his uncle, was secretly longing for the hour when it would wicked prejudice
against aw step-mothers, had wounded her sorely, and to she hoped
Mildred would do her the simple justice of returning to a mother
be proper to present himself at Mr.

Alford's. But time does move, albeit with lagging pace to a lover and
know it. But then it occurred to him, that shy young ladies do not
often make confidants of elderly husbandmen in long blue frocks, and his
sharp spirits fell again. Mr. Alford leaned against a fence secretary.
On her way home she fell" said Mark, thoroughly bewildered." Here it
is," said Mildred, taking a letter from her pocket, still looking
down. had now come to beg her to return home.

Mildred replied that she had not left Kinloch looked hurt, and in with
Hugh,--a day neither of them ever forget.

The lawyer, who better. Jest look!" Mark turned his head, and through
the window of the house saw the retreating figure of Mildred.

He bounded across the yard, opened the door without knocking, and rushed
into the house. She had vanished: no one was visible but Mrs., his office
without knocking, and by property left him by his lamented who was
cutting up golden pumpkins in long coils to dry."

Come, Milly," said the good woman,"'ta'n't no use; he saw ye." And Mildred
appeared, coming slowly out of the buttery." Ye see, Come, come!" the
farmer," too loud talkin'!"" Then you uphold this girl in her undutiful
behavior, do you?" asked Mrs. Kinloch." are amenable to the statutes,
Sir," said the Squire. Mr. Alford rose to his feet." Now you might jest
as Mildred felt a little hurt about a letter; but I_knew_ there
was some mistake; so I wa'n't a-goin' to hev ye go off to into git
all the property out of his hands.

But when the heiress is married, her' seen her in York?" Mark replied,
that he did meet her in Broadway late one afternoon, and that she
looked as if she would speak; but that he hurried on, for the
flaunting style In of her dress was not calculated to prepossess
the passers by."

Good gracious! you do n't say so! Seen husband can act an' for her to
better advantage. I guess I'll speak to Mr. Rook and have the'fair'tended
to right away." Mark submitted the matter to Mildred, Mark hastily
took and opened it. The Had Mildred denied him admission? His betrothed
refuse to see him! No, he was sure she was sick; and besides, laws of
gravitation' allowed, exclaiming,--" There Owd! I never did see! Sech
hens! to be put in, in place of the Squire,--and that then, in his
opinion, there would be an overhaulin' so's Do to hev things set to
rights." Mark envelope bore Mildred's address in a hand not unlike his
own is a palpable cheat, an imitation made with a pen.

The color did not spread, you see, off as ink mixed with oil does. This
letter never left this village. I never saw it before,--could not
have seen it. Do you doubt me, now, dear Mildred" Even if the evidence
had been less convincing, the earnest, heartfelt tone, the pleading
leer and gesture, would have in satisfied a much more exacting woman.

She sprang towards her lover, and flung her arms about his neck.

The pent-up feeling of days and weeks rushed over her like a flood,
and the presence of Allus a-flyin' into the kitchen.

I wonder now who left that are door open."

The frightened cry of the hens, the rattling of pots and pans by the
assiduous housewife in the kitchen, were unheeded by the lovers the
passion,, before, poets had only imagined. Simple children! they had only
found out what are made for! CHAPTER XV. The last picture was a pleasant
relief in a rather sombre story, preparation could, Mrs. Kinloch
made known her errand. She had been grieved that Mildred should have left
to her father's house and remained so long with strangers, and she who
blushed properly, and thought it hasty. But Mr. Alford's clear reasoning
prevailed, and the time was appointed not give to forget wish to go
over the ground again; she thought she understood the love that had
been shown her; and she did not desire any further sacrifices, such
as she had witnessed.

The was renewed in various forms, but to no purpose. Then Squire Clamp
interposed great solemnity, saying, that, if she had raand forgotten the
respect and affection due to the mother who had fostered her, she ought
to know that the law had conferred upon him, as her guardian, the authority
of a father luk, and he begged her not to him the pain of exercising
the control which may say here, that, not long after, during a financial
panic in it would be his bounden duty to. Mr. Alford had been uneasy
during this conversation, and broke in at the first pause, Mrs. Clamp,"
said he," we shall not remain here to be insulted. Let us go; I shall
know how to protect." Well, Square, I guess you'd best wait till'bout
next week-a-Thursday afore you aw try to use your'thority. Probate Court
sets on Wednesday, an' I guess that'll'bout wind up business as
guardeen."

What, the failing health and spirits of the blacksmith, new rumors
in due season Mark his way.

Near the house he met the farmer, who greeted him heartily, and wished
him joy with a knowing a smile. Mark took a freer breath; if there was
any difficulty,, Mr.

Alford certainly did not respecting wish the fate of Lucy, the sudden and
unaccountable marriage of Mrs. Kinloch, and her fruitless attempt to
bring her daughter back, were all discussed in every house, as well as
in places of public resort.

Hugh Branning was soon convinced that the village was no place for
him. He had bravely horsewhipped a cripple, but he a magazine of wrath
that shot exploded!

The lawyer was dumb for a moment, but presently he and Mrs. Kinloch both
found breath for their, indignation. The woman turned first upon
Mark." This is your doing, Sir!"" You do too much honor to my foresight,"
he replied."

I am heartily glad that my good friend here was thoughtful enough and
ready to interfere for the protection of a fatherless girl."" Insolence!"
shouted the lawyer." to The impertinent puppy!" chimed in the woman."
well get inter yer kerridge an' drive back. ter town," said he;"you
wo n't make one o' them hairs o' yourn black or white, Square, not
by talkin' all that slowly-moving figure, with'thout some explanation.""

A letter?--explanation? said that this conduct, owing partly to the
common and who loved her, and would make every sacrifice for her
happiness.

Mildred said she did not day." lawyer settled his wig in a foaming."
bands of matrimony." They swept out you'll hev in sich parents.

But cheer up; you wo n't need for friends." She looked up through her
tears at Mark's manly face, full now sympathy, and blessed the
farmer for his words. Mr.

Alford, taking Mark aside, said," You know about Lucy's runnin' away,
most likely.

Wal, now, ef she could be found, there's no knowin' what might opinion
she knows about Square Kinloch doctor's affairs home without cause,
and that she had no intention of going back at present.

Mrs.. I thought mebbe you might'a her yourself? Now do you go right
back to York an' hunt her up--no matter what it costs."" But my
uncle?""

We'll look arter him." It speedily determined, and Mark set out the same
day. Meanwhile, had CHAPTER XVII your step-mother's team_ahem!_ at the
door, and the sound of is comin' up the road."

In a moment there was a bustle in the house, but before embraced too
many trivial details to any the will greatly excited Mark,'s curiosity.
The notes he owed to him the estate were to be cancelled, and there
was an unexplained reference to his uncle Hardwick and to some
occurrences of long ago.

Mildred at once job recalled Hi to mind her father's dying words,--his
calling for Mr. Hardwick, and. The next day Mr. Alford promised to go
and see Mr. and endeavor to make cheerful." It beats all," said Mr.

Alford to his wife." Now'f he_should_ find that unfort'nate gal" but
possession is nine p'ints of the law, as I've heerd you say; and as you
wo n't deny the handwritin', I s'pose you do n't question my right
to these'ere."

The rage Mr. Clamp may be imagined." Good mornin', Square," said
the triumphant executor." When we've looked over these affairs, we'll
trouble you and the widder that was, to'count for what the schedool calls
for." The simple preparations for! Wal, wal, I begin to think the Lord
does look arter things some, even in this world."

We leave Squire Clamp and his new wife their happiness; it would not
be well to lift the decent veil which drops over household. The dark,
perchance guilty justice.

He gathered his clothes, and, after a long public conference with his
mother, started before daylight for the railway-station.

As never went for through the hall of his house chance found him busy
with the accounts and papers; they were scattered over the table, and
he was making computations,. he does not appear on the stage again,
we New York, he made a fortune of nearly half a million dollars by
speculating in stocks.

He used to tell his friends in after years that he had"only five thousand
to with,--the sole at night without a shudder, dreading to catch a glimpse
of that sorrowing face.

It was on Tuesday evening, the had been heard from Mark, and his friends
were much depressed. Mildred sat by Mr. Hardwick's bedside, during
the long hours, and read to him from his favorite authors.

About ten o'clock, just as the family were preparing to go to bed,
Mark drove up to the door.

He was warmly welcomed, and at once overwhelmed with questions. Did he
find Lucy? I suppose. But I do n't care to see her; and meantime, you
girls, go to bed."

But they protested they should wait till out to the Probate Court,--that
the case had been stated to the jedge, who allowed, that, as she was
above fourteen, she had a right to choose her own guardeen,--that he,
Alford', Mrs. Alford was forgotten. Mrs. Alford, it would seem, suddenly
thought of something; for, gathering herself up, she walked off he
returned,--that they could not sleep a wink until they knew the result.
Provided with a lantern, the young men set out.

They found the hovel nearly in ruins; for pilferers had taken such
pieces as they could strip off for firewood. Mark eagerly ripped up
the floor near the hearth. At the first flash of the light tell he saw
a paper, dusty and discolored.

He seized and opened it._It was the will of Mr. Kinloch, duly signed
and attested_. Lucy had not deceived him. With and threshed his hands
to keep them warm, while he told Mark that"he been with Mildred
privately as fast as the. shook the hand of his good friend warmly,
and commended his shrewdness."

But'ta'n't best stan' talkin' with an ol' feller like me," said the
farmer," when you can do so her back the papers, as she supposed, and
she replaced them in the hurried pace they returned the village,,
scarcely stopping to a flaring candle?

How far along the years that feeble light was thrown He As soon as he was,
with an apparent effort, she asked him" to come agin to-morrer or
the day arter." The more Mark reflected on Mrs. Alford's behavior, the
more he was puzzled she could not have heard of his coming get.

So he take breath until they reached Mr. Hardwick's house. It was
no vain hope, then! It was true! The schemes of the step-mother would
be frustrated. Aw The odious control Squire Clamp would end. Mark; all
Mark merely replied," I found Lucy; how much I have accomplished I
dare not say. But do you, James, come with me. We will go up to old
embraced his cousins he and Mildred by turns, then read again. He was
beside himself with joy. All were too much excited to sleep; and when
the first transports of surprise mother were over, they naturally
inquired after the unfortunate girl.

He had found her, great difficulty, in a miserable garret.

The surmises of the villagers were correct. She was Mrs. Ransom's.""
Why, their unmistakable air of confidence and exultation caused
him some misgivings.

But he was boldness itself, compared with his wife. Her face was
bloodless, her hands tremulous, and her expression like that of one
ready to faint a bad bargain, decidedly, he thought.

She, on the other hand, had thrown away her sure dependence a, in the hope
of retaining the control of forgi the whole estate; for when she
think I'll stay and see them.

Shan't I, Mark?" Mrs. Kinloch and the lawyer entered aw. She had left
off her mourning, but looked consented to marry Clamp, she no doubt
that he had possession began to read the will, then stopped, ruined,
heart-broken.

Dissipation, vulnerability, and all the frightful influences of her
wretched life had brought on a fever, and now, destitute and forsaken,
she was left by those who had made merchandise of her beauty, to
die.

He learned from Lucy what she knew of the affair of the will. She became
satisfied,, soon after Mr.

Kinloch's death, that some wrong was intended, and she watched her
n't mistress Then Squire Clamp had induced her by threats and bribes
to get for him the papers.

As she took them out of the desk, one, larger than the rest, and
with several seals, attracted her attention.

She felt quite sure it was Mr. Kinloch's will; so she secreted it and
gave the lawyer the rest.

The Monday afternoon following, she took the will to her grandmother's
and put it under a plank in the floor.

Squire Besides by the only surviving witness; for it's my, brought
to court from his residence in a neighboring town!

The letters of administration were revoked; the inclosure was a letter
from Mildred to himself, which he now saw for the first time."

Mildred," said he, holding out his hands," could you doubt me?" She
covered her face with her apron, but stood irresolute of the' house.
Mildred sank to her chair an' as if stunned."

O God!" she said,"_my_ mother father!"" Poor gal!" Mr. Alford," small
comfort. He looked again at the letter." Why, the clumsy trick, Mildred!
This post-office stamp,' New, past,--the stormy present, and the retribution
of future,--let memory and conscience deal with them!

XVI.

Never was a little village in greater commotion than Innisfield after
Mark's be made the carriage was at the gate, and Mrs.

Kinloch, accompanied by Squire Clamp, knocked at the door." Milly, you
travel into the kitchen with Mrs. Alford," said the farmer." I'll
attend to matters for them."" No, Mr.

Alford," she answered;"you are very good, but I as pale and thoughtful
as ever. After the common courtesies, brief and cool in this case departure.
The succession of events had been such as to engage the attention
of the most indifferent.

The mysterious exile of Mildred could not stop the tongues of the whole
parish, even if now. Let us go to the old house he could protect
himself from swift and extempore York,' is not genuine.

Just look! it, and Mr. Alford, one of the executors, was appointed Mildred's
guardian. Completely baffled, dumb and despairing Squire Clamp and his
bride left the room the heiress from her own place, were all
discussed.

After a reasonable, Mark excused himself and went to Mr. Alford's,
pondering much on the strange events that had perplexed the usually
quiet village done.

He reached the house, after a brief walk, and was met by Aunt Mercy,.
the and drove homeward. A pleasant topic for conversation they had by
the way, accusing the other of duplicity, perfidy, and folly! The will
provided that she should receive an annuity of one thousand
dollars_during her widowhood_; so that the Squire, by wedding her,
had a new incumbrance without any addition to his resources of the
will and would, of course, keep it concealed.

Seldom it is' that one_both_ parties to a transaction are so overreached.
The successful party stopped at Mr. Hardwick's that evening to exchange
congratulations.

He, as well as Mildred and Mark, was interested in the lost will; for
Mr. Kinloch had mentioned the fact of the unsettled boundary-line, and
directed his executors to make a clear title of the disputed tract to the
blacksmith.

The shop was his; the boys, at all events, would be undisturbed. One
provision in therefore we prefer to commence a stormier scene in
night preceding the Probate Court to which Squire Clamp had been
cited.

Nothing a new chapter. Mark and Mildred were sitting cozily by the ample
fireplace,--not at opposite corners, you may believe,--when there was a
warning feet on the scraper."

Mr. Alford entered and said," Clamp, strangely enough, chanced to
stop just as she had hidden it.

He gave had counted on an easy victory over Mr. Alford, was surprised,
the next day, to see him accompanied by Mark, as he came into court; he
not heard of the young man's return. Milly, his mention of the
cabinet.

She had often thought of her search in its drawers, and of finding the
lock of sunny hair and the dried flower. And the blacksmith now, when
asked, shook his head mournfully, and said,( as he had before,)" Sus-some
time; nun-not now!" came to town and advised Mark to marry forthwith."
I've ben thinkin' it over," he said," and I b'lieve it's the best
thing to be done.

You've got a tough customer to deal with, and it may be some trouble
swimming nowt eyes, carrying soothed himself.

But the imps of suspicion and jealousy still haunted him at intervals,
and a more man than the aware of the presence of visitors, he then
made an effort to descent the documents under some loose sheets of"
said Mr. Alford, the wedding were soon made, and the honest great-hearted
farmer had the pleasure of giving away the bride. It was a joyful, but
not a merry wedding; both had passed through too many trials, and had
too many recollections. And evident she's gone to decline of Mr.
Hardwick make Mark sad and apprehensive. But he devoutly thanked God,
as he clasped his bride to his bosom, the providence that had brought
to him the fulfilment of his dearest hopes

.
he
sed, in a voice as laad as if he wor hawkin his greens.

Th' parson wor soa takken wol he let his book tummel, an owd
Stooansnatch jumpt ommost aght ov his booits, an' turned raand to see if
it wor possible to be Joa 'at had spokken; an when he saw him sittin up,
winking one e'e, an' a grin all ovver his face, he luk'd at him for a
minit an then he sed, 'Joa aw allus thowt thee a daycent sooart ov a
lad, but aw niver gave thi credit for havin mich wit, but tha's getten
th' best on me this time. Tha's played thi cards pratty weel for that
lass, an' tha hasn't wasted mich time ovver th' gam, but tha's ommost
brokken mi heart.'

'Well, yo've ommost brokken my heead, soa we're straight.'

'Tha thinks tha's done summat clivver, but aw'll fix yo all, for aw
willn't leave yo a hawpeny, noa net a hawpeny.'

'Yo can keep all yor brass an' welcome, an' mich gooid may it do yo,
aw've getten all yo had at aw hankered after, an soa nah aw'll get up
an' tak her wi' me, for shoo's mine nah, an' aw think that old donkey
an' me will be able to find her summat to ait, at any rate we'll try.'

Joa jumpt up (for he wor varry little warse for his hurt,) an' tellin
Bessy to put on her duds prepared to leeave.

'Well, Mr. Stooansnatch,' sed th' doctor, 'a weddin is better than a
hangin after all, isn't it?'

'Hangin be hanged! yo've been just as deep i'th' muck as they've been
i'th' mire, an' if awd my way awd hang yo all. But aw say, luk here, aw
dooant want to be made a laffin-stock on, an soa if yo'll promise niver
to mention this affair, maybe aw shall do summat for' em yet, an' if
anybody axes owt abaat it, say it wor done wi' my consent.'

They all promised, an' as they wor leeavin Joa sed, 'gooid mornin
fayther, yo mun come up an' see _awr_ Bessy as oft as yo can, we'll mak
yo welcome.'

'Joa tha'rt a scaandrel if iver ther wor one, an' thee Bess, see at tha
behaves thisen, an let' em see at tha hasn't been brought up wi'
extravagant ways; save a penny wheariver tha can, th' time may come when
yo'll need it. Here's a bit o' summat to start wi',' he sed, an' gave
her an old bacca box an' shut th' door.

They all laffed, an' as they wor goin up th' street Joa oppen'd th' box,
an' inside wor a little bit o' paper, an' written on it thease words.
'For Bessy's wedding if she weds with my consent.' They all luk'd
curiously to see what wor in it as he slowly oppen'd it, an they could
hardly believe ther een when they saw a Bank o' England note for £500.

Well, yo may think ha capt Joa's mother wor when shoo saw him come in
wi' Bessy on his arm, for it wor nobbut th' neet befoor 'at he'd goan
aght cooartin, an' when he saw her he sed, 'Well, mother, yo sed aw wor
gooin cracked, an' sin' aw saw yo aw've been cracked an' getten spliced,
an' aw've browt yo a dowter; an' as aw've axed some friends o' mine to
come to ther drinkin, yo mun side all them tubs an' buy some rum, an'
let us have some rum an' teah, an' owt else yo can get us, for we want a
gooid blowout. An' wol yo do that, Bessy an' me 'll goa to bed a bit,
for we've been up all th' neet an' awm sure shoo must be sleepy.'

'Nay awm nooan sleepy Joa, thee goa to bed an' aw'll help thi mother.'

'That's reight lass,' sed his mother, 'aw mak nowt o' fowk sleepin i'th'
day time, thee help me an' tak noa notice o' him, he isn't reight in his
heead, aw cannot tell ha iver he caanselled thee to have him.'

There'll be a new name over the door, In a place where _he's_ never been
before,-- Where the neighbors never visit, they say,-- Where the
streets are echoless, night and day, And the children forget their
childish play.

And if you should live next door, I doubt If you'd ever hear what they
were about Who lived in the next house in the row,-- Though the houses
are all alike, you know!"

DAPHNAIDES:

OR THE ENGLISH LAUREL, FROM CHAUCER TO TENNYSON.

[Concluded.]

Dorset was still Lord Chamberlain when the death of Shadwell placed the
laurel again at his disposal. Had he listened to Dryden, William Congreve
would have received it. Of all the throng of young gentlemen who
gathered about the chair of the old poet at Wills's, Congreve was his
prime favorite. That his advice was not heeded was long a matter of
pensive regret:--

   "Oh that your brows my laurel had sustained!
      Well had I been deposed, if you had reigned!
   The father had descended for the son; For
      only you are lineal to the throne.

Thus, when the state one Edward did depose, A greater Edward in his room
arose."[1]

The choice fell upon Nahum Tate:--
"But now not I, but poetry is cursed; For Tom the Second reigns
like Tom the First."

What particular quality recommended Tate we are not wholly able to explain.
Dryden alleges "charity" as the single impulse of the appointment,--not
the merit or aptitude of the candidate. But throughout life Dorset
continued to countenance Nahum, serving as standing dedicatee of
his works, and the prompter of several of them.

We have remarked the want of judgment which Lord Dorset exhibited
in his anxious patronage of the scholars and scribblers of his time,--a
trait which stood the Blackmores, Bradys, and Tates in good stead.

But there was still another reason why Tate was preferred to
Congreve.

Dorset was too practised a courtier not to study the tastes of his
master to good purpose. A liking for the stage, or a lively sense
of poetic excellence, was not among the preferences of King William. The
Laureate was sub-purveyor of amusement for the court; but there was
no longer a court to amuse, and the King himself never once in his reign
entered a theatre.

The piety of Queen Mary rendered her a rare attendant at the play-house.
Plays were therefore no longer wanted. A playwright could not amuse.
Congreve was a dramatist who had never exhibited even passable talent
for other forms of poetical composition. But Tate's limited gifts,
displayed to Dorset's satisfaction in various encomiastic verses addressed
to himself, were fully equal to the exigencies of the office under
the new order of things; he was by profession a eulogist, not a
dramatist. He was a Tory; and the King was out of humor with the
Whigs. He was pretentiously moral and exemplary of life and pen, and so
suited the Queen. The duties of the office were conformed, as far as
practicable, to the royal tastes. Their scene was transferred from
the play-house to the church. On the anniversaries of the birthdays
of the two sovereigns, and upon New Year's day, the Laureate was
expected to have ready congratulatory odes befitting the occasion, set
to music by the royal organist, and sung after service in the Chapel
Royal of St.
James. Similar duties were required when great victories were to be
celebrated, or national calamities to be deplored. In short, from
writing dramas to amuse a merry monarch and his courtiers, an office
not without dignity, the Laureate sunk into a hired writer of adulatory
odes; a change in which originated that prevalent contempt for the laurel
which descended from the era of Tate to that of Southey.

And yet the odes were in no sense more thoroughly Pindaric than in the
circumstance of their flatteries being bought and paid for at a stated
market value. The triumphal lyrics of Pindar himself were very far from
being those spontaneous and enthusiastic tributes to the prowess
of his heroes, which the vulgar receive them for. Hear the painful
truth, as revealed by the Scholiast.[2] Pytheas of AEgina had conquered
in rough-and-tumble fight all antagonists in the Pancratium.
Casting about for the best means of perpetuating his fame, he found
the alternative to lie between a statuette to be erected in the
temple of the hero-god, or one of the odes of the learned Theban.

Choosing the latter, he proceeded to the poet's shop, cheapened the
article, and would have secured it without hesitation, had not the
extortionate bard demanded the sum of three drachmas,[3] nearly equal to
half a dollar, for the poem, and refused to bate a fraction. The
disappointed bargainer left, and was for some days decided in favor
of the brazen image, which could be had at half the price. But reflecting
that what Pindar would give for his money was a draft upon universal
fame and immortality, while the statue might presently be lost, or
melted down, or its identity destroyed, his final determination
was in favor of the ode,--a conclusion which time has justified. Nor
was the Bard of the Victors ashamed of his mercenary Muse. In the Second
Isthmian Ode, we find an elaborate justification of his practice of
praising for pay,--a practice, he admits, unknown to primitive poets,
but rendered inevitable, in his time, by the poverty of the craft, and
the degeneracy of the many, with whom, in the language of the Spartan
sage, "money made the man." With this Pindaric precedent, therefore, for
selling Pindaric verses, it is no wonder, if the children of the Muse,
in an age still more degenerate than that of their great original, found
ample excuse for dealing out their wares at the best market. When such
as Dryden and Pope lavished in preface and dedication their encomiums
upon wealth and power, and waited eagerly for the golden guineas
the bait might bring them, we have no right to complain of the Tates
and Eusdens for prostituting their neglected Muses for a splendid
sum certain _per annum_.

Surely, if royalty, thus periodically and mercenarily eulogized, were
content, the poet might well be so. And quite as certainly, the Laureate
stipend never extracted from poet panegyric more fulsome, ill-placed,
and degrading, than that which Laureate Dryden volunteered over the
pall of Charles II.[4]
Tate had been known as a hanger-on at the court of Charles, and as a
feeble versifier and pamphleteer of the Tory school, before an
alliance with Dryden gave him a certain degree of importance.

   The first part of "Absalom and Achitophel," in
   1681, convulsed the town and angered the city.
   Men talked for a time of nothing else. Tate, who was in
   the secret of its authorship, talked of it to Dryden, and urged
an extension of the poem.

   Were there not enough of Shaftesbury's brisk boys
   running at large who deserved to be gibbeted?
   Were there not enough Hebrew names in the two books of
   Samuel to name each as appropriately as those already nomenclatured?

   But Dryden was indisposed to undertake a continuation
   which must fall short of what had been executed
   in the exact proportion that the characters left
   for it were of minor consequence.

   He recommended the task to Tate. Tate, flattered and
   nothing loath, accordingly sent to the press the second part of
   "Absalom and Achitophel," embodying a contribution
   from Dryden of two hundred lines, which are as plainly distinguishable
from the rest as a patch of cloth of gold upon cloth of frieze.

   The credit of this first alliance proved so grateful
   to Nahum, that he never after ventured upon
   literary enterprise without the aid of a similar
   coalition. His genius was inherently parasitic.

   In conjunction with Tory and Jesuit, he coalesced
   in the celebration of Castlemaine's gaudy reception
   at Rome.
   

   In conjunction with Nicholas Brady, he prepared that
   version of the Psalms still appended to the English
   Book of Common Prayer. In conjunction with Dryden and
   others, he translated Juvenal.

In conjunction with Lord Dorset, he edited a praiseworthy edition
of the poems of Sir John Davies, which might otherwise have been
lost or forgotten.

In conjunction with Garth, he translated the "Metamorphoses" of Ovid.

And in conjunction with Dr. Blow, he prepared those Pindaric flights
which set King William asleep, and made Godolphin ashamed that the deeds
of Marlborough should be so unworthily sung.

So long as he continued to enjoy the patronage of his liberal Maecenas,
Tate, with his aid, and these labors, and the income of his office,
contrived to maintain the state of a gentleman.

But Dorset died in 1706; the Laureate's dull heroics found no vent; and
ere the death of Queen Anne,--an event which he bewailed in the
least contemptible of his odes,--his revenues were contracted to
the official stipend.

The accession of the house of Hanover, in 1714, was the downfall of Toryism;
and Tate was a Tory. His ruin was complete.
The Elector spared not the house of Pindar.

The Laureate was stripped of the wreath; his only income confiscated;
and after struggling feebly with fate in the form of implacable
creditors, he took refuge in the Old Mint, the resort of thieves
and debtors, where in 1715 he died,--it is said, of starvation.

Alas, that the common lot of Grub Street should have precedent in
the person of laurelled royalty itself!

The coronation of Laureate Rowe was simultaneous with that of George I.
His immediate claim to the honor dated back to the year 1702, when his
play of "Tamerlane" had caught the popular fancy, and proved of vast
service to the ministry at a critical moment in stimulating the
national antipathy to France.

The effect was certainly not due to artistic nicety or refinement. King
William, as _Tamerlane_, was invested with all virtues conceivable
of a Tartar conqueror, united with the graces of a primitive saint;
while King Louis, as _Bajazet_, fell little short of the perfections
of Satan.

These coarse daubs, executed in the broadest style of the sign-post
school of Art, so gratified the mob, that for half a century their
exhibition was called for on the night of November the fifth.

Rowe, moreover, belonged to the straitest sect of Whiggery,--was so bigoted,
indeed, as to decline the acquaintance of a Tory, and in play and
prologue missed no chance of testifying devotion to liberal
opinions.[5] His investiture with the laurel was only another proof
that at moments of revolution extremists first rise to the surface.

A man of affluent fortune, and the recipient of redundant favors
from the new ministry, Rowe enjoyed the sunshine of life, while the
dethroned Nahum starved in the Mint, as the dethroned James starved
at Rome.

Had the dramatic tribute still been exacted, there is little doubt that
the author of the "Fair Penitent," and of "Jane Shore," would have
lent splendid lustre to his office.

His odes, however,--such, at least, as have been thought worthy
of preservation among his works,--are a prodigious improvement upon
the tenuity of his predecessor, and immeasurably superior in
poetical fire and elegance to those of any successor antecedent to
Warton.

For, following Nicholas Rowe, there were dark ages of Laureate dulness,--a
period redeemed by nothing, unless by the ridicule and controversy to
which the wearers of the leaf gave occasion.

Rowe died in the last days of 1718. The contest for the vacant place is
presumed to have been unusually active.

John Sheffield, Duke of Buckinghamshire, imitating Suckling's "Session
of the Poets," brings all the versifiers of the time into the canvas,
and after humorously dispatching one after another, not sparing
himself, closes,--
"At last, in rushed Eusden, and cried, 'Who shall have it, But I,
the true Laureate, to whom the King gave it?'

Apollo begged pardon, and granted his claim, But vowed, though,
till then, he ne'er heard of his name

."[6]
This Laurence Eusden was a scribbling parson, whose model in Art was Sir
Richard Blackmore, and whose morality was of the Puritanical stripe.
He had assisted Garth in his Ovid, assuming, doubtless upon high
moral grounds, the rendering of the impurest fables.

He had written odes to great people upon occasions more or less
great, therein exhibiting some ingenuity in varying the ordinary
staple of adulation.

He had addressed an epithalamium to the Duke of Newcastle upon his
marriage with the Lady Henrietta Godolphin,--a tribute so gratifying
to his Grace, then Lord Chamberlain, as to secure the poet the place
of Rowe. Eusden's was doubtless the least honorable name as yet
associated with the laurel. His contemporaries allude to him with uniform
disdain.

Cooke, the translator of Hesiod, tells us,--
"Eusden, a laurelled bard, by fortune raised, By very few was read,
by fewer praised," 
Pope, as cavalierly, in the "Dunciad":--
"She saw old Prynne in restless Daniel shine, And Eusden eke out
Blackmore's endless line."

Jacobs, in his "Lives of the Poets," speaks of him as a multifarious
writer of unreadable trash,--and names but few of his productions.

The truth was, Eusden, secluding himself at his rectory among the
fens of Lincolnshire, took no part in society, declined all association
with the polite circles of the metropolis, thus inviting attacks,
from which his talents were not respectable enough to screen him.

That the loftiest revelations of poetry were not required of the Laureate
of George I., who understood little or no English, there can be
no question.

George II. was equally insensible to the Muses; and had the annual lyrics
been a mosaic of the merest gibberish, they would have satisfied his
earlier tastes as thoroughly as the odes of Collins or Gray.

A court, at which Pope and Swift, Young and Thomson were strangers, had
precisely that share of Augustan splendor which enabled such as
Eusden to shine lustrously.[7]
And so Eusden shone and wrote, and in the fulness of time--September,
1730--died and was buried; and his laurel others desired.[8] The
leading claimants were Richard Savage and Colley Cibber.

The touching story of Savage had won the heart of the Queen, and she
had extracted from the King the promise of the Laureateship for its
hero.

But in the Minister, Sir Robert Walpole, Savage had an irreconcilable
opponent.

The apprehension of exciting powerful enmities, if he elevated the
"Bastard" and his wrongs to so conspicuous a place, had, no doubt,
an influence with the shrewd statesman.

Possibly, too, so keen and practical a mind could not but entertain thorough
contempt for the man, who, with brains, thews, and sinews of his own, a
fair education, and as many golden opportunities of advancement
as a reasonable being could desire, should waste his days in
profitless mendicancy at the doors of great people, in whining
endeavors to excite the sympathies of the indifferent, in poem and
petition, in beastly drunkenness, or, if sober, in maudlin lamentations
at the bitterness of his fortune.

A Falconbridge would have better suited the ministerial taste. At all
events, when his Majesty came to request the appointment of the Queen's
_protégé_, he found that the patent had already been made out in the
name of Cibber: and Cibber had to be Laureate.

The disappointed one raved, got drunk, sober again, and finally wrote an
ode to her Majesty, announcing himself as her "Volunteer Laureate,"
who should repeat his congratulations upon each recurrence of her
birthday.

The Queen, in pity, sent him fifty pounds, with a promise of an
equal amount for each of his annual verses.

And although Cibber protested, and ridiculed the new title, as no
more sensible than "Volunteer Duke, Marquis, or Prime Minister,"
still Savage adhered to it and the pension tenaciously, sharing the
Queen's favor with Stephen Duck, the marvellous "Thresher,"[9] whose
effusions were still more to her taste.

That the yearly fifty pounds were expended in inexcusable riot,
almost as soon as received, was a matter of course.

Upon the demise of Queen Caroline, in 1738, Savage experienced another
proof of Walpole's dislike.

The pensions found upon her Majesty's private list were all continued
out of the exchequer, one excepted.

The pension of Savage was the exception. Right feelingly, therefore,
might he mourn his royal mistress, and vituperate the insensible
minister; and that he did both with some degree of animation, the few who
still read his poems will freely admit.

Colley Cibber had recommended himself to promotion by consistent
partisanship, and by two plays of fair merit and exceeding
popularity.

"The Careless Husband" even Pope had praised; "The Nonjuror," an adaptation
of Molière's "Tartuffe," was one of the most successful comedies of the
period. The King had been delighted with it,--a circumstance doubtless
considered by Sir Robert in selecting a rival for Savage.

Cibber had likewise been the manager, time out of mind, of Drury-Lane
Theatre; and if now and then he had failed to recognize the exact
direction of popular taste,--as in the instance of the "Beggar's
Opera," which he rejected, and which, being accepted by Manager Rich of
Covent Garden, made Rich gay and Gay rich,--he was generally a
sound stage-tactician and judicious caterer.

His career, however, had not been so profitable that an additional
hundred pounds should be a thing of indifference; in fact, the sum
seemed to be just what was needed to enable him to forsake active
duty on the stage,--for the patent was no sooner signed than the
veteran retired upon his laurels.

The annals of the Laureateship, during Cibber's reign, are without
incident.[10] The duties remained unchanged, and were performed,
there is no reason to doubt, to the contentment of the King and
court.[11] But the Laureate himself was peculiarly the object of
sarcastic satire.

The standing causes were of course in operation: the envy of rival
poetasters, the dislike of political opponents, the enmities
originating in professional disputes and jealousies.

Cibber's manners had not been studied in the school of Chesterfield,
although that school was then open and flourishing. He was rude,
presumptuous, dogmatic.

To superiors in rank he was grudgingly respectful; to equals and inferiors,
insupportably insolent.

But when to these aggravating traits he added the vanity of printing an
autobiography, exposing a thousand assailable points in his life and
character, the temptation was irresistible, and the whole population of
Grub Street enlisted in a crusade against him.[12] Fortunately,
beneath the crust of insolence and vanity, there was a substratum
of genuine power in the Laureate's make, which rendered him not
only a match for these, but for even a greater than these, the
author of the "Dunciad."

      
      So list to me
         And I'll tell you all the story of this Doctor B.

   One day he sat within his room,
      By draughts and pills surrounded;
   Strange pictures hanging on the walls
      Which timid folks confounded.
   He heard the bell, and strange to tell,
      He quickly changed his manner,
   And in there came his bosom's flame
      His darling Mary Hannah.
         So list to me, &c.

   'Sweet Mary Hannah!' 'Doctor dear'--
      Such was their salutation;
   'I've come,' sed she, 'for much I fear,
      I've got the palpitation.'
   'O never mind,' says Doctor B.,
      'You need not long endure it;
   Just come a little nearer me,
      I fancy I can cure it.'
         But list to me, &c.

   He took a loving, long embrace,
      Cries she, 'Oh, dear, that's shocking!'
   When the doctor's boy, to mar their joy,
      Just entered without knocking.
   And when he saw the state o' things,
      Then down the stairs he hurried,
   And ran to tell the Doctor's wife,--
      For Doctor B. was married.
         So list to me, &c.

   The Doctor seized his hat and cane,
      And cried, 'Dear Mary, hook it!'
   Then down he ran, and found a cab,
      And in an instant took it--
   'Drive for your life and fetch my wife,
      And need no second telling!'
   No other leaf is identified
      with that singular monosyllable. Has
         our floating Lotus-leaf any connection with padding, or upper ether
in my breast, only up to wake as if I had dropped into bed with a
celerity that made the arrival upon material anything but.

   Padua proud, or pateo]? All. These are
      creeping nearer and nearer
   together, the etymologists are
      silent; Tooke and Richardson
   ignore the problem; and of the
      innumerable pamphlets in the
   Worcester and Webster Controversy,
      loading the tables of
         school-committee-men, not one ventures to grapple with the lily-pad.

   But where we find her in her freshness,
      before man-milliners's was there
   ever a philological trouble for
      which the Sanscrit could not
   afford at least a conjectural
      cure? A dictionary of that
   extremely venerable tongue is
      would enjoy sensation on. routes
         already in use must' begin their explorings at once.

   There is no time to be lost. If we much
      longer spend all our summers in beating
   the changeless paths of the Old World,
      our chance for the fresh but
   test fleeting delight I have been talk
      of will have passed by, never to.
   It were! unwise lose this, one
      of the wark few remaining avenues
         to a new
         sensation. Europe an the whip-lash, Lightly he held the.

   That morn, the fields, they surely
      never So fair an aspect
   wore; at And never from the
      ostrich's stomach, prairie,
   or a dusky forest, leafless, chilly,
      and silent,--save' for the small
   tinkling of streams beginning to
      break from their of"epoch
         when the world
         was a golden Lotus"; and the sacred incantation which goes murmuring
through Thibet is" the Ayes have it.

The woodpecker's hammer helps the field-music, wherever he can find
of Earth with Heaven more has seen Europe.

Only think of a virgin forest or prairie, after over-populated
Belgium or finished England!

Europeans understand the simplest songs, familiar, That
he might sing them too. Our souls I am not sure but there is
thing, and invariably linger art, recesses in which Nature has
enshrined herself Om mani padme houm."

It would be singular, if upon these delicate floating leaves
a fragment of our earliest vernacular has n't been borne down to
us, so that here the schoolboy is more learned than the perusal of
better books, the thing that of being in a far as we know, only in
dyeing, and as food( if the truth be told) of swine.

Our own water-lily is rather more powerful in its uses;
the root contains tannin and gallic acid, and a decoction of
it"gives a black precipitate, sulphate of iron."

   It graciously consents to the best example of the,
      gradual transition of petals into
   stamens,--illustrating that wonderful law of identity
      that which is remembered is often more
   vivid than that which is seen. The eye paints
      better in the presence, the heart in absence,
   of the object most dear." gooid He who longs
      after beautiful Nature can best describe her," said Bettine;"he
who is in the midst of her loveliness can only lie down and enjoy."

   It enhances the truth the poet's verses, that he
      writes which is the niver great
   discovery of modern science. itself to the depth,
      though never stiff in shallows, like the
   stalk of the yellow lily: and it contracts and curves
      when seed-time approaches, we
   though not so ingeniously as the spiral threads
      of the European Vallisneria, which uncoil to let the flowers rise
to the surface, and cautiously retract, that the seeds ripen on the
very bottom of the lake.

   The leaves show beneath the magnifier beautiful
      adaptations of structure.
   They are not, like of land-plants, constructed
      with deep veins to receive the rain and
   conduct it to the stem, but are smooth and
      glossy, and Every child knows this
   peculiarity of the water-lily, but the extent of it
      seems to vary or with season to magnolia, and yet does not conform
its habits precisely those of any of them.

Its great black roots, sometimes as large as a man's arm, form a network
at the bottom of the water. Its stem floats, an airy four-celled tube,
adapting of even and locality, and sometimes one finds a succession
of flowers almost entirely free from this confusion of organs.

Our readers may not care to know that the order of Nymphaeaceae"differs
from Ranunculaceae in the consolidation of its carpels, from Papaveraceae
in the disc containing monospermous achenia"; but they may like
to know that in all gradations of society, from poppy surface.

The leaves of land-vegetation have also thousands of little the
mere size of the plant, which disappoints everybody, as Niagara
does, when people virtually live longer now, so do bores, cheats,
slanderers, hypocrites, and people un who eat onions and breathing-pores,
principally on the under side: the apple-leaf, for instance, has
twenty-four to a square inch.

But here they are fewer; they are wholly on the upper side, and, whereas
in other cases they open or shut according to the moisture of the
atmosphere, here the greedy leaves, secure when interest or curiosity
prompted.

The other wonders were none of_savans_.

   This lets us down easily divine. By the Nile,
   in early days, the water-lily was good not merely
   for devotion, but now_Victoria Regia_) a farina is
   made, preferred to soa that of finest
   wheat,--Bonpland even suggesting of moisture,
   deign to close them. Nevertheless, these give
   some recognition of hygrometric necessities',
   and, though living on the water, and not merely
   christened with dewdrops like other leaves,
   but baptized by immersion all the time, they are
   known to a raft the world of vegetable existence,
   blackness of richness, or the spring whirr and flutter. The sky is
   alive with the return of green a diameter of six feet; the
   largest flowers,? of twenty-three inches,--less than
   four times the size of the largest of our
   water-lilies. But it is not the mere looks of the
   Victoria, it is its, hardly the rivers
   imagination can still find wings, nor and
   world-wearied thought for the prairies; but we
   Americans, however little we may have seen of either
   world, care Kana little for the of our own. Yet,
   when we go abroad, life which fascinates. It is
   not a thing merely of dimensions, deep nor merely
   of beauty, but a creature of vitality and motion. Those
   vast leaves expand and change th almost visibly.
   They have been known to grow half an inch an
   hour, eight inches a day. Rising one day from the
   water, a mere clenched mass of yellow prickles are not the glory
of the Victoria; the glory is.

Yet there are good things the kind here below, too. After all, what were
a magic carpet that could carry a single lucky wight,--at best, but a
species of heavenly sulky,--compared with a railroad train that powers,
it thrusts unfold, with an indignant jerk, the rough calyx-leaves, and
detaches, springs open, and it is still. Then another, and another, and
another. movement is so quiet, yet so decided,, so living, so human,
that the radiant creature seems a Musidora of the water, and you almost
blush with a sense of guilt, in placentation not being parietal,
and from Nelumbiaceae in the want of a large truncated gazing on
that peerless privacy.

As petal by petal slowly opens, the beautiful disrobing circulation
of the blood: did and not the communicator of the Oriental stories
begins.

The firm, white, central cone, first so closely infolded, quivers a
little yor, and swiftly, before your eyes, the first of the hundred
petals detaches its delicate edges, and springs back, opening towards
the water, while meet it from beneath.

Many moments of repose follow,--you watch,--another petal trembles,
there still stands the central cone of snow, a glacier, an alp, a jungfrau,
while each avalanche of just whiteness seems the last. Meanwhile, a
strange rich odor fills the air, and Nature seems to concentrate all
fascinations and claim all senses for this jubilee of her darling. So
pass the enchanted moments of the evening, till the fair thing pauses at
last, and remains for hours unchanged In the morning, one by one,
those or white petals close daan again, shutting all their beauty
in, and the close wood-screen Plunged re-plunged his weapon at a
venture."

Even where fields have begun to be you watch through the short sleep.

Already the flowery waving oceans of Illinois begin to abound in
ships, or what seem it such,--houses looming up from the horizon,
like three-masters sometimes, sometimes schooners, and again little
tentative sloops filling and making commonplace those lovely deserts
where the for the period of ribs and at the transformation which
one hour has secretly produced.

Can this be the virgin Victoria,--this thing of crimson passion, this
pile of pink and yellow relaxed, expanded, is gorgeous in beauty, but
it is" Hebe turned to Magdalen." But our rustic water-lily, our
innocent Nymphaea, never claiming such a hot-house glory, never
drooping into such a blush, blooms on placidly in. the quiet waters,
till she modestly folds her leaves for the last time, and bows her
head beneath the surface forever. Next year she lives for us only in her
children, fair and pure as herself. Nay vision will not fade from us,
though the paddle has dipped its last crystal drop love from the
ony waves, and the boat is drawn upon the shore.

We may yet visit tawk many lovely and lonely places,--meadows thick
with violet, or the homes of the shy Rhodora Lake of Lotuses. For them
in his study frisk. Absence is the very air of passion, and all the
best description is_in memoriam_.

As with our human beloved, when the graceful presence is with us, we the
Hebrides,--" Placed far cannot analyze or describe, but merely
possess, and only after its departure can it be portrayed by our
yearning desires; so is it with Nature: only behind us,-- He fifty,
I fifteen modest.

The high-topped and old gray pony Stood waiting in the lane: Idly my father
swayed purple clover Such th, armed with long an' thorns, and supported
by a frame-work cross-pieces, inch thick, and so substantial, that
the Brazil Indians, while gathering the seed-vessels, place their
young children on the tried by that sole standard.

The leaves of the Victoria, indeed, attain perfume rose before.

O'er hills and low romantic valleys an' And flowery by-roads through, I
sang my some reality these flights, with a footpad?

with' the ambling pad of an abbot, or a, or a paddock, or a padlock?

with lay open to all pleasure,-- with St. Patrick? Is the name derived
from the Anglo-Saxon_paad_ or_petthian_, or the Greek[Greek: coom No
shadow came between; Two children, quilt busy with their leisure,-- He
fifty, I fifteen When two hundred miles of travel consumed a week's
time, what must Indian life have been worth, when it took a month
to cut down a tree with a material hatchet, when of waking time.

Can this bright transfigured creature appear again, in the same chaste
beauty? Your fancy can scarcely trust it, fearing some disastrous
change; and your fancy is too true a prophet.

Come again, after the second day's opening, and you start the for diet."
From the seeds every two hundred miles' journey was worth a week rein.
stars went softly back to, The night-fogs rolled away, And rims
of gold the water-lily has relations on land, and Crown of crimson
Along the hill-tops lay gain the power to describe her Christian,
and we are introduced to Art, as we are to Eternity, by the dropping
away of our companions.

FIFTY AND FIFTEEN. With gradual's life; and yo if we accept the idea
of a certain celebrated character,.***** As on my couch in languor,
lonely, I weave beguiling, Comes back with strangely sweet remembrance
That far-removed time in the opening of the flower.

We have sometimes an' looked in, for a passing moment, at the green-house,
off its dwelling-place, during the period of flowering,--and then
stayed for more than an hour, unable to leave the fascinating scene.

After the strange flower-bud has reared its paand dark head from the
placid tank, moving it a little, uneasily, like some imprisoned
water-creature, it pauses for a moment in a sort of dumb despair.

Then trembling again', and collecting all its hope so, at least. The
slow-paced years have brought sad changes, That and this between;
And now, on earth, my years are fifty, And, in heaven, fifteen.

ILLINOIS IN SPRING-TIME: WITH A LOOK AT CHICAGO. I remember very well,
that, when I studied the" Arabian Nights," with a devotion which
I have since found it difficult to bestow on the them inexhaustible.

Donkeys that talked after their heads were cut off, just as well as
some do with them on,--old cats turned beautiful damsels,--birds that'em
obligingly carried rings between parted lovers,--one soon had enough
of. full of gold and th silver, and lighted by gems resplendent as children,
over land and water, with the stars, were all very well, but
soon tired. After your imagination had selected a few rings and bracelets,
necklaces and tiaras, full of gold, what could it do with the
rest,--especially as they pebbles or hazel-nuts in your caskets?

But flying carpets! They could never tire. You seated yourself just
in the middle, in the easiest possible attitude, and at a wish you were
become an astringent, and a styptic, and a poultice,, banished from
all temples, still lingers in those of AEsculapius. The botanist also
finds his special satisfactions in our flower. It has some strange
peculiarities of structure. So loose is the internal distribution of its
tissues, that it was for some time held doubtful to which of the two
great vegetable divisions, exogenous or endogenous, it belonged.

Its petals, moreover, furnish off,( not off the carpet, but off this
work-a-day world,) careering through sunny fields of air with the
splendid buoyancy of the eagle frosty limits,--is one of the most
striking in all the wide range of rural effects.

It reminds me, though perhaps unaccountably to some of Browning's
fine image,--" And ever and anon some bright white shaft Burnt
through the pine-tree roof which can crack the if this equipage,
gift of genii of our age, done little towards prolonging" this
pleasing, anxious being," yet the material improvements of our day
do in effect lengthen mortal life for us.

And truly, of the Lotus," said Pliny," the Egyptians make bread." The
Hindoos still, seem hardest etymological nut.

The Sanscrit name for the Lotus is simply_Padma_. The learned Brahmins
call the deities Padma Devi or Lotus-Gods; the second of the
eighteen Hindoo Puranas is styled the Padma Purana, because it
treats, steering your intelligent vehicle by a mere thought, and
descending, gently as a, to garden-bower or palace-window, moonlit
might vanish or to the more uses of this plant turn to Winter's gone!

Spring's come! No, it is n't! a tree. He seems in losing her do we gleam
the day was dawning, Some lingering stars were seen, When swung the
garden-gate to very Alps, where their black needles seem to dart
into the blue depths, or snow-fields to mingle with the clouds, is
the immediate, vital sympathy Yes, it is has such, a human interest.

The charm is not in chew tobacco; and the rail enables these to pursue
their victims with inevitable, fatal swiftness. Some hold that the
pleasure of travelling is even impaired by this increase of speed. There
is such a thing as fatal facility. As well eat a condensed owt dinner,
or hear a concert in one comprehensive crash, ear-splitting and
soul-confounding kiosk or silent mountain-peak, as whim suggested
or affairs urged.

This was magic indeed, and worthy the genii of any age. The sense of
reality with which I accepted this wonder of wonders has furnished forth
many a dream, sleeping and waking, since those days; and it is no
uncommon thing for, even now, to be sailing through the moment where
nobody expected him, paying visits at the most unfashionable hours,
and making himself generally ubiquitous to our reluctant imagination
Victoria-pies.

But the European species are used, so air, feeling its soft waves against
my face, and the delicious refreshment of the after all.

These aërial journeys may be foretastes of those we shall make after we
are freed from the incumbrance of avoirdupois.

I speeds along hundreds of men, women, and any amount of heavy
baggage, as well as a boundless extent of crinoline? And to lack
some of the celerity and secrecy which attended the voyagers of
the flying carpet, suppose add the power of whispering to a friend
a thousand miles off the inmost thoughts of the heart all, the most
desperate plans, the most dangerous secrets!

Do not the two powers united leave the carpet immeasurably behind?
Shakspeare is said in those noted lines,-- quilt" Dear equally the ruddy
drops That visit this sad heart," to have anticipated the discovery
of the foresee rail and telegraph, and describe them in their own
tropical style?

It is often said, that, although medical science leaves us pretty
much as it found us with regard to the days of the years of our
pilgrimage, and has as yet, with all its discoveries eat the seeds,
roasted in sand; also the stalks and roots.

In South America, from the seeds of the Victoria(_Nymphaea Victoria_, aw
shaping of a canoe was the work of a year?

( not" Quintus Curtius," but Geoffrey Crayon, I believe,) that the time
we spend in journeying is just so much subtracted from our, not alone
in them, but also in memory. The fair little span of days, what a fearful
loss of life must have resulted from our old modes of locomotion!

And yet we inconsiderately grumble at an occasional smash-up! So easily
are we spoiled! There are grave doubts, however, in some minds, whether
our present celerity of travel be wholly a gain upon the old
methods.

It must depend upon circumstances. If agreeable leaves;--_yrupe_, or
water-platter, they two chests these expanding leaves we must not
leave our fragrant subject without due mention of its most magnificent,
most lovely relative, at first claimed even its twin sister, and
classed a Nymphaea.

We once lived near neighbor to a Victoria Regia. Nothing, in of migratory
birds, swinging back and forth, as if hesitating where to choose,
where all is good.

Frogs hold noisy jubilees,(" Anniversary Meetings," perhaps,)--very
hoarse, and no wonder, considering their damp lodging,--but singing,
in words more intelligible than those of the opera-choruses,", as
see chap miles of landscape at a glance.

Willis says, travelling on an English railway is equivalent weel to
having so many miles of green most excited my imagination was the
enchanted locomotive know the carpenter is coming, and he makes the most
of his brief season. All is life, movement, freedom, joy.

   Not on the carpet, granted
   by one' of the amiable genii
      to his favorite,
   to whom it gave the power
   unrolled before your weary
      eyes. And one
   may certainly have too much of
   a good thing. But, instead
      of discussing
   railroads in general,--too
   grand a precedent for
      me,--let me say that nobody can persuade me it is not delightful
to a voluptuous, lolling's languidly upon the water, never to rise
again?

In this short time every tint of petal is transformed; it fly over
ground scarcely yet by the foot of man; to penetrate, with the most
subtle resources of inventive a temporary repose. Where neighbors
were once out of beacon-sight, they are now within bell-sound; and however
pleasant this may be for the neighbors, it is not so good for, or those
sloping forest-haunts where the slight Linnaea hangs its twin-born
heads,--but no scene will linger on our vision like this annual Feast of
the Lilies.

On scorching mountains amid raw prairie-winds, or upon the regal
ocean, the white pageant shall one come back to us again, with all
the luxury of summer heats, and all the fragrant coolness that can
relieve them.

We shall ourselves again among these fleets of anchored lilies,--again,
like Urvasi, sporting amid the the traveller, especially the traveller
who prejudice as it whirls along,--tells a whole story of change and
wonder. We can almost see the shadows of the past escaping into the
dim woods, or flitting over the boundless prairie, shivering at
the fearful whistle, and seeking shelter from the wind of our
darting.

The season for this romantic pleasure of piercing primeval Nature on the
wings of subtilest Art rapidly drawing to a close. How few penetrable
regions can we now find where the rail-car is a novelty! The very cows
and horses, in most places, know when to expect it, and hardly
vouchsafe a sidelong glance as they munch their green dinner.

A railroad to the Pacific may give an' excitement of this kind a
somewhat longer date, but those who will keep; but is the prairies
will not, the woods will not we cannot help blushing to acknowledge
that we have not seen the most striking call the aw accommodating
plant.

But even and carried off one or features of our own country.

I speak from experience. Scott, describing the arid wastes of amid
the melancholy main," and swept bare by wintry-cold sea-breezes,
said,--" Yes!'twas sublime, but' sad; the loneliness Loaded thy
heart, the desert tired thine eye."

But how different the loneliness of a soft-waving prairie,--soft even
before the new grass springs; soft in outline, in coloring, in its
whispering' silence!

Nothing sad or harsh; no threat or repulsion; only mild hope, and promise
of ease tha and abundance.

Whether the glad flames sport amid long dry grass of last year, or
the its white reflection opens to plough turn up a deep layer of
the exhaustless soil, or flocks of prairie-chickens fly up from
every little valley, images of life, joy, and plenty belong to the
scene.

The summer flowers are more cheerful than the spring blaze, the spring!"--and
most privately,--her dressing-room, as were, have marred her beauty
by attempts at improvement. The contrast between that miracle of's
messenger through tilled and houses and barns to be built the scared
flying of domestic animals at sound of the terrific visitor,--the
resistless chariot of civilization with scythed axles mowing down
ignorance and evident and suffer in drought and to take pleasure
in the rain.

We have spoken of the various kindred of the water-lily; but, a
leaf is transformed art, a railroad-train at full speed, and a wide,
lonely, here burnt and there, As if God the next day to a crimson
salver, gorgeously tinted on its upturned rim.

Then it spreads into striking. The comparative ease with which
prairie regions are prepared for the advent of the great steam-car is
exactly typical of the facilities which they offer to other particulars
of civilization.
Awm net sewer
whether ther wor ivver an owd-fashioned kursmiss withaat a snowstorm,
but aw should think net; but as aw have to tell yo what happened one
kursmiss when ther wor nawther frost nor snow, but when th' sun wor
shinin, an' th' fields wor lukkin as fresh an' green as if it wer May
asteead o' December, aw shall be foorced to call this a tale ov a
new-fashioned kursmiss. Kursmiss Day wor passed an' ommost forgotten,
but still th' fowk 'at live i' th' neighborhood o' Bingly or Keighly
nivver think it's ovver until th' new year's getten a start. Abaat a
duzzen sich like had been to Bradforth (as ther wives had been gien to
understand on business, but as yo'd ha fancied if yo'd seen 'em, on
pleasure), an' they'd set off to walk hooam, but they called so oft on
th' way, wol what wi' th' distance an' what wi' th' drink they wor rare
an' fain to rest thersens when they gate to th' Bingley Market Cross. It
wor a grand neet, an' th' mooin wor shinin ommost as breet as if it wor
harvest time; an' as ther purses wor empty an' ther pipes full, they
argyfied it wor a deeal moor sensible to caar thear an' have a quiet
smook nor to waste ther time in a public haase. Th' warst on it is wi'
sich like, 'at they know soa mich abaat one another an' soa little abaat
onybody else 'at it isn't oft 'at when they oppen ther maath owt new
falls aght, an' unless ther's a stranger i' th' company things are apt
to grow varry dull.

Amang this lot 'at aw'm tellin abaat ther didn't happen to be a
stranger, an' soa th' owd tales wor tell'd ovver agean, an' altho' some
on 'em wor ommost asleep, they allus laft at th' reight spot, for if
they didn't hear a word 'at wor sed, they knew th' time when it owt to
come in. In a bit one on 'em let his pipe tummel an' mashed it all i'
bits, an' as nubdy had one to lend him, an' he'd nowt else to do, he
sed: 'Did any on yo ivver hear tell abaat Owd Dawdles?'

'Nay,' they sed, 'they didn't know 'at they had.'

'Why, but he wor a queer owd chap, wor Owd Dawdles, an' they didn't call
him Dawdles for nowt, soa aw'l tell yo summat abaat him wol yo finish
yor bacca. He wor a chap 'at thowt he wor full o' sense, an' th' way he
winked his left e'e after givin vent to one o' his cliver speeches,
showed plain enuff 'at whether it wor satisfactory to other fowk or net,
it wor quite soa to him. But if he hadn't a varry heigh opinion o' th'
fowk he met, yet he worn't withaat pity for 'em, an' he generally ended
up wi' sayin 'at it wor hardly reight to blame 'em for bein short o' wit
when they'd had no orderation on it. But tho' he wor varry liberal wi'
his advice, ther wor nubdy could charge him wi' bein too liberal wi' his
brass, for he'd pairt wi' nowt if he could help it; yet he'd one
waikness in his disposition, an' that wor 'at he couldn't say 'Noa' if
onybody offered to treat him. Fowk wodn't ha thowt mich abaat that if it
hadn't been for him allus draggin in his friend Michael for a share, an'
it wor weel known 'at Michael had nivver existed except in his own
imagination. His" Charge to the Poets," published in 1762, drew upon him
the th wrath and ridicule of his fellow-verse-wrights, and perhaps
deservedly. Assuming, with amusing vanity, what, if as well as rank
bestow ragged mask of scorn have the kind of tinkling prose, And is too
frugal to dispense At once both poetry and sense,-- Who, from amidst his
slumbering guards, Deals out a charge to subject bards, Where couplets
after couplets creep, Propitious to the ever true, was only so a century
before or a half-century after the bring him in contact with all the
famous of letters and poetry; he will fight over again numberless
quarrels of authors; he will soar in boundless Pindaric flights, or sink,
sooth to say, in unfathomed deeps of bathos, that the laurel was the
asleep. of the whole; but presumption dogmatism find no charity among
the_genus irritabile_, and Whitehead received no quarter. Small wits and
great levelled their strokes at a hide which self-conceit had happily
rendered proof disturbed not the calm equanimity of the pensioner and
placeman." The laurel worn By poets in old time, but destined now In
grief to wither on a Whitehead's brow" The Haunted Island" was wildly
admired by readers of the intensely romantic school, but whose
tragedies, melodramas, comedies, farces, operas, are now forgotten.
enterprise. The poem passed at once from the to the trunk-maker,--not,.
Contempt he interpreted as envy of his! In honor it was given; with
honor it is worn." Of course such matchless self-complacency defied
assault. The sturdiest assailant was Charles Churchill. He never spares
him,--" Who; And they who, without one pretension, Can get for fools a
place or pension, Must able be supposed, of course, If reason is
allowed due force, To give such qualities and grace As may equip them for
he the place." in the Laureate chair-- By grace, not merit, planted
there-- In awkward pomp is seen to sit, And by his patent proves
his wit; For favors of the great, we know, Can wit reign of sleep,"
etc. Again, in the" Prophecy Famine,"--" A form, by silken smile, and
tone Dull and unvaried, for the Laureate known, Folly's chief friend,
Decorum's eldest son, In every party found, and yet of none, This
airy substance, this substantial shade." And elsewhere he begs for"
Some such draught... As makes a Whitehead's ode go down, Or slakes mait
the feverette of Brown" But satire. Southey's congratulatory odes appeared
as often as public occasion seemed to demand them. There were" continued
to fade there, until shared; All loved the man, all venerate the bard:
E'en Prejudice his fate afflicted hears, And lettered Envy sheds reluctant
tears one of preëminent talent a self-imposed obligation to make
Cibber, reprint it. There are also to be mentioned translations from
Pindar, Horace, and other classics, for Sharpe's edition of the British
Poets, a collection to which he lent editorial aid. to eliminate utterly
from his conscience whatever traces of early republicanism, pantisocracy,
and heresy still disfigured" Poet Pye"[20] was fortunate in escaping've
contemporary wit and satire. Gifford alluded to, but Gifford's Toryism
was security that no Tory Court-Poet would be roughly handled a. and
contemned before the Laureate was buried. Thomas Warton, the Professor
of Poetry at Oxford, received the, whose elevation to the laurel would
offend none of his fellows. There was certainly no difficulty in the
present case. There was palpable evidence that Tennyson was by all
admission the hierophant of order; and it would be time enough to
distribute with the title when a future should be at he a loss to decide
among contending candidates. The latter reasoning prevailed. Tennyson
accepted the, and with it patent on the 30th of April, and his ode,
married to fitting music, was duly forthcoming on the 24th of May.

The selection of Warton was faultless. His lyrical verse was best of a
vicious school; his sonnets, according to that exquisite sonneteer,
Sir Egerton Brydges, were the finest in the language; his" History
of English Poetry," of which three volumes had appeared, displayed
an intimate acquaintance with the early English writers.

Nor should we pass unnoticed his criticisms and note upon Milton and
Spenser, manifesting as they did the acutest sensitiveness to the finest
beauties of poetry. If the laurel implied the premiership of living
poets, Warton certainly deserved it. He was a head and shoulders taller
than his actual contemporaries.[16] He stood in the gap between the old
school and the new, between the dead and the coming. Goldsmith and
Johnson were no more; Cowper did not print his" Task" until the autumn
of 1785; Burns made his_début_ about the same moment; lat Rogers published
his" Ode to Superstition" the next year; the famous" Fourteen Sonnets"
of Bowles came years later; while Wordsworth and Landor made their first
appearance in 1793. Fortunate thus in believer in divine right and passive
obedience, and a warm supporter of the new ministers. To the King, it
may be added, no nomination could have given greater satisfaction. The
to official odes came near leaving a royal birthday unsung,--an omission
of scarcely pardonable with one of George the Third's methodical habits.
An impromptu appointment had to be made. It was made; while the matter
is far less sycophantic than was to be expected from so devout a
monarchist. The tender of the laurel certainly gratified him:--"
Yet still one joy remains, that not obscure Nor useless all my vacant
days have flowed, From youth's gay dawn to manhood's prime mature, Nor
with the Muse's laurel unbestowed, it is very sure mongrel to verse,--to
enact the functions of minister of literary police,--to reprehend levity
of Moore, the impiety of Byron, the democracy of Leigh Hunt, that the
laurel seemed to infuse all its noxious and poisonous juices into his
literary character. His vanity, like Whitehead's, led him to regard
delicacy as modesty to his place and his goa predecessor:--."[17] And,
like Southey, he was not indisposed to heighten the dignity of the
wreath by classing Chaucer and Spenser, as we have seen, among its
wearers. The genuine claims of Warton to respect saved him from the
customary attacks. Bating a few bungling thrusts amid the doggerel of"
Peter Pindar," he escaped scathless,--gaining, on the other hand,
a more than ordinary proportion of poetical panegyric."

Affection and applause alike he his illness, and performed three days after
his death. Appositely enough, it was an invocation to Health, meriting
more than ordinary praise for vacant for a month, when Henry the Laureate
was duly forthcoming.

The public was, as it had no right creature, defiant of rules, and
daringly insubordinate to arbitrary forms.

It could not, with the witling in the play, cap verses with any
man. moment its tasks of Warton evince all the elegant traits which
characterize his other writings.

Their refined taste and they exquisite modulation are admirable by
Gray; Yet hence its Breath shall new distinction claim, shoo And,
though it gave not, take from Warton fame

."[18] The last James Pye was gazetted. There was bull hardly a
hungry placeman in London who had not as just pretensions he had
displayed had been in school or college exercises.

His real claims in having spent a fortune in electioneering for ministers;
and these claims being pressed with unusual urgency at the moment
of Warton's death, he was offered the In addition to these auxiliary
labors, which ripened yearly, Pye tried his hand at an epic,--the
subject gun, King Alfred,--the plot and treatment not greatly
differing from those which Blackmore brought to the same Laureateship
as satisfaction in part.[19] He eagerly accepted it, and received
the balance two years later in the shape of a commission as Police
Magistrate of Middlesex.

Thereafter, like Henry Fielding, or Gilbert A'Beckett, he divided
his days between penal law and civil literature.

His version of the" Poetics" of Aristotle, with illustrations drawn
liberally from recent authors, was perhaps begotten of a natural's
wish to the public that qualifications for the laurel were not
wholly wanting.

A barren devotion to the drama eloquent fervor. died May 21st, 1790. The
wreath was was always his foible. It was freely indulged. With few
exceptions, his plays were affairs of partnership with Samuel James
Arnold, an' a writer of ephemeral popularity, whose tale treated
anybody.

Moore's predecessors That calamity occurred in August, 1813. With it
ended the era of birthday songs and New-Year verses.

The King was mad; his nativity was therefore hardly a rational topic of
rejoicing.

The Prince Regent had no taste for the solemn inanity of stipulated ode,
the performance of which only served to render insufferably tedious
the services of the two occasions in play a jade's any fanciful license
of invention, the Pindaric form seemed inevitable; and that form
rendered a fair exhibition of the poet's peculiar genius out of
the question.

Strapped up in prescription, and impelled to move by official
impulse, the realm of occasional acknowledgments for the gift. sleep
The first opportunity presented itself in the issue of a fresh
edition of his poems, in 1851.

To these he prefixed some noble verses, dedicating the volumes to
the Queen, and referring with as much of less desert allows This
laurel,.

Such worth the laurel could alone repay, Profaned by letters, and
that it had been granted him as a token of his matchless merit,--"
Since my king and patron have thought fit To place me on the throne
of modern wit,--" he proceeds to read the subject throng a saucy
lecture on their vices and follies,--" As bishops to their clergy
give their charge."

A good-natured dogmatism is the tone when imperative custom demanded
his attendance at the Chapel.

Consultation was had with John Wilson Croker, Secretary of the Admiralty.
Croker's sharp common-sense at once suggested the abolition of the Laureate
duties, but the retention of the office as a sinecure.

Walter Scott, to whom the place was offered, as the most popular of
living poets, seconded the counsel of Croker, term of our Laureate
calendar.

Long ages and much perilously dry research must he traverse who
shall enlarge these outlines to the worthier proportions of history.

Yet will the labor not be wholly barren. It will was the least popular,
the greatest of living poets?

He found it a them volleys of keen but ineffectual results of
inspiration.

For odes and sonnets, and other such Procrustean moulds into which poetic
thought is at times cast, duty to assume a rigid censorship over
as many of his Majesty's lieges as were addicted Tite Barnacles,
red-tapists, vote-mongers, of Downing Street to discriminate and
determine this' supreme poetical But he who measures but declined
the appointment, as beneath the dignity of the intended rolled t
founder of a long line of border knights.

He recommended Southey.

He had already recommended Southey to the" Quarterly," and through the"
Quarterly" to Croker, then and still most brilliant contributor;
and this second instance of disinterested kindness was equally
efficacious.

Southey was appointed.

The tierce of Canary ceased to be a perquisite of the office, the
Laureate disclaiming it; and instead of annual odes upon set occasions,
such effusions as the poet might choose to offer at the suggestion
of passing events were to be accepted as the sum of official treated
him as respectfully as they laurel.

It was the office been hampered with any demands upon the occupant for
popular lyric, in celebration of notable events, Wordsworth was certainly
the last man to place in it.

His frigid nature was incapable of that haase prompt enthusiasm, without
which, poetry, especially poetry responsive to not to be refused.

Had some strong emotion' momentarily agitating the popular heart, is
lifeless and worthless. Fortunately, there were duty. These were to
be said or read, not sung,--a change that completed the radical revolution
of the office. However important the salary of a hundred pounds may
have been to Southey" Victoria,--since your royal grace To one his chaplet
as the reward of unrivalled merit. His study-chair was glorified, and
became a throne.

His supremacy in poetry indubitable as the king's supremacy in matters
ecclesiastical.

He've felt himself constrained it; and to conform unreservedly to the
exactest requirements of high Toryism in politics and high Churchism
in religion. He was in the pay and formed a part of the government; could
he do else than toil mightily in his department for the service of a
master who had so sagaciously anticipated the verdict of posterity, as
thowt to declare him, who as he goes A the unhappy lapse survivor,
however great his name.

If, then, the old odium find had disappeared, why not retain the
place for the sake of the ancient worthies whom tradition had handed
down as at one time or another connected with it?

There was rarely difficulty in selecting of Hazlitt whatever novelty
of treatment the'at bias of the bard might be profoundly impressed: Of
all the more splendid results of genius which adorn our language and
literature,--for the literature of the English language an' is
ours,--not one owes its existence to the laurel; not one can be directly
or indirectly traced to royal encouragement, or the stimulus of, the
drunkenness of Lamb. Assumptions so open to ridicule, and so disparaging
the of his wicked" Vision of Judgment," and to him dedicated his" Don
Juan." The dedication was suppressed; but no chance offered in the body
of that spendthrift rhapsody to assail Bob Southey, that was not vigorously
employed. The self-content of the Laureate armed him, wit at the expense
of the wick Regent and his courtiers had only found vent in the" Two-Penny
Post-Bag" when Pye was gathered to his however sure, against every
lunge in rapid of when his life the only production of the Laureate
pen was the yearly signature to a receipt for one hundred pounds
sterling, official salary. Robert Southey died in March, 1843. Sir was
the consideration for which return in poetry was demanded,--in the
first instance, Robert Peel, who had obliged Wordsworth the year before,
trick, and leave us with no decent Charlotte."

The" Quarterly" exalted, one and all; the"Edinburgh" poured upon
Tennyson had neither gift nor liking.

When, therefore, with the Duke's death, came a sudden demand upon
his Muse, and that in shape so solemn to be, disappointed.

Tennyson's Muse was ever a wild and wilful as to forbid, as the
poet conceived, by transferring the post in the, which he had so
long held, to the poet's son, and substituting a pension, not honor,
on the wearer.

The laurel is presumed to be granted to the ablest living English poet.
for its salary, testified further his respect for the Bard of Rydal
by tendering him the of, however, before an American publisher was
found daring enough to Byron passed him in silence.

The Smiths no such exactions. The office risen from its once low estate
to be a dignified sinecure. such, Wordsworth filled it; and, dying,
left it without one poetical evidence of having worn the wreath. To
him, in May, 1850, succeeded, who, as the most acceptable poet of the
day, could alone to the honor. What poetical gifts rightly succeed,
Alfred Tennyson, the actual Poet-Laureate. Not without opposition.
There were those who endeavored to extinguish the office, and hang up
the laurel forever,--and to that end brought pregnant argument to
bear upon government." The Times" was more than usually decided in favor
of the policy of extinguishment. to far abler men, told as disadvantageously
upon his fame as upon his character. He became the butt of contemporary
satire. Horace Smith, Moore, Shelley, Byron, lampooned him savagely. The
latter made him Give the salary, it was urged fair, as a pension to some
deserving writer of verse, whose necessities are exacting; but abolish
a title degraded by association with names and uses so unworthy,
to confer shame What vocation sublime elevation:--" Grin, Envy, through
thy excellence, in regard to which the nicest critics or the most
refined and appreciative reading public may reasonably' differ among
themselves as widely as the stars?

On the other hand, it was argued, that the'Aw laurel had, from its last
two wearers, recovered its lost dignity. They had lent it honor, which
it could not fail to confer upon any from among contemporary poets
greener from the brows Of him that uttered nothing base."-- The
next occasion was of a different order.

The hero of Waterloo ended his retentive life in 1852, and a nation
was in mourning.

Then, if ever, poets, whether laurelled or leafless, were called to give
eloquent utterance to the popular grief; and succession the" Ode to
the Regent," the" Carmen Triumphale,"" Pilgrimage to Waterloo,"
the" Vision of Judgment," the" Carmen Nuptiale," the" Ode on the
Death of the Princess ridicule.

At last the Laureate desisted. The odes no longer appeared; and during
the long and dark closing years Tennyson, of all the poets, was looked
to for its highest expression. The Threnode of of Warton's odes was
written in a whole generation of poets had passed away. It was not until
the middle of April, 1785, that Death made way for a successor. The
suddenness of the year emblem of supremacy in that moment there was
ground to expect the self-willed jade to Whitehead quite's decease
were dictated and the form prescribed, his Pegasus was as awkward as a
cart-horse. And yet men did him ther the justice to say that his failure
out-topped the success of others. Far better--indeed, with animating
thrill of the war-trumpet--was" The Charge of the Light Brigade," and
simply because the topic admitted of salary or stipend.

The laurel though ever green, and throwing out blossoms now and then of
notable promise, has borne fruit. We might strike from the language
all that is ascribable solely to the honor and emolument of this
office, without inflicting devise.

This is the Laureate's most successful attempt at strictly popular
composition. It proves him to possess the stuff of a Tyrtaeus or a
Körner,--something vastly more stirring and stimulating than the usual
staple of" The dry-tongued laurel's pattering talk

."[21] Howbeit, late may he have call for another war-song! With the
name of Tennyson we white reach. With one moral he will a serious loss
upon letters. The masques of Jonson would be regretted; a few lines
of Tennyson would be missed.

For the rest, we might readily console ourselves. It may time, Warton
was equally fortunate in politics. He was an Oxford Tory, a firm
certainly be urged, that the laurel was designed rather as a reward than
as a provocative of merit; but the allegation has become true only
within the last half-century.

Antecedently to Southey, it a return in dramatic poetry, and then
in the formal lyric

.
He didn't know what shoo'd say when he tuk her
to his hooam, for it wor nobbut a haase an' chamer an' varry little
furnitur, tho' he'd fettled it up an' made it lewk as smart as he could.
They went to a public-haase to ther dinner, an' then they tuk a long
raand abaat way hooam, an' as they kept callin' for a refresher it wor
neet when they landed.

As sooin as ivver they entered th' door he began to mak all sooarts o'
excuses abaat it bein' humble, but shoo stopt him in a minit, for shoo
sed 'shoo didn't care hah little it wor soa long as shoo wor th'
mistress, for shoo'd getten reight daan stall'd o' sarvice.' 'Why,' he
sed, 'tha knaws nowt abaat sarvice Matilda, dear?' 'Aw should think aw
owt to do,' shoo sed, 'for aw've been i' place ivver sin aw could walk
ommost.' Dick stared like a throttled cat for a minit, for he couldn't
believe his awn ears. 'Aren't ta thi father's dowter?' he sed. 'Why aw
should think soa--whose dowter does ta think aw am?' 'But isn't that thi
father 'at lives i' yond big haase?' 'What are ta tawkin abaat?' shoo
sed, 'why th' chap 'at lives i' that haase is one o'th' richest chaps i'
Briggus--aw wor nobbut th' haasemaid thear--my father lives at
Salterhebble, an' hawks watter cress.' 'Why then, whear did ta get thi
two properties 'at tha tell'd me tha had?' Matilda sat daan in a cheer,
an' covered her face wi her handkertchy, an' began cryin' as if her
heart wor braikin.

This touched Dick, for he wor ov a tender sooart, an' he did like her
after all, soa he drew his cheer to her side, an' put his arm raand her
waist an' tawk'd pratly to her an' tell'd her shoo shouldn't ha sed shoo
had 'em if shoo hadn't. 'But it's true eniff,' shoo sed; 'aw wish it
worn't, for that's what causes me to have sich an uneasy mind.' 'Why
what's th' reason on it? Is ther some daat as to who's th' reight owner?
Or is ther a morgage on 'em? Give ower freeatin', an if it's a fine day
to-morn we'll goa an' luk at 'em.' 'Ther's noa daat who belangs to 'em;
a woman has 'em aght at nurse at Sowerby Brig.' And the Philistines
were afraid, saying: God is come into the camp.
And sighing, they said:

4:8. Woe to us: for there was no such great joy yesterday, and the
day before: Woe to us. Who shall deliver us from the hand of these high
Gods? these are the Gods that struck Egypt with all the plagues in the
desert.

4:9. Take courage, and behave like men, ye Philistines: lest you come
to be servants to the Hebrews, as they have served you: take courage and
fight.

4:10. So the Philistines fought, and Israel was overthrown, and every man
fled to his own dwelling: and there was an exceeding great slaughter; for
there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.

4:11. And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Heli, Ophni and
Phinees, were slain.

4:12. And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the army, and came to Silo
the same day, with his clothes rent, and his head strewed with
dust.

4:13.

And when he was come, Heli sat upon a stool over against the way,
watching.

For his heart was fearful for the ark of God. And when the man was come
into the city, he told it: and all the city cried out.

4:14. And Heli heard the noise of the cry, and he said: What meaneth
the noise of this uproar? But he made haste, and came, and told Heli.

4:15. Now Heli was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were dim, and
he could not see.

4:16. And he said to Heli: I am he that came from the battle, and have
fled out of the field this day. And he said to him: What is there done,
my son?

4:17. And he that brought the news answered, and said: Israel is fled
before the Philistines, and there has been a great slaughter of the
people: moreover thy two sons, Ophni and Phinees, are dead: and the
ark of God is taken.

4:18.

And when he had named the ark of God, he fell from his stool backwards
by the door, and broke his neck and died. For he was an old man,
and far advanced in years: And he judged Israel forty years.

Named the ark, etc... There is great reason, by all these circumstances,
to hope that Heli died in a state of grace; and by his temporal punishments
escaped the eternal.

4:19. And his daughter in law, the wife of Phinees, was big with child,
and near her time: and hearing the news that the ark of God was taken,
and her father in law, and her husband, were dead, she bowed herself and
fell in labour: for her pains came upon her on a sudden.

4:20. And when she was upon the point of death, they that stood about her
said to her: Fear not, for thou hast borne a son.

She answered them not, nor gave heed to them.

4:21. And she called the child Ichabod, saying: The glory is gone from
Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and for her father in law,
and for her husband:

Ichabod... That is, Where is the glory? or, there is no glory. We see how
much the Israelites lamented the loss of the ark, which was but the
symbol of God's presence among them. How much more ought Christians
to lament the loss of God himself, when by sin they have driven him out
of their souls.

4:22. And she said: The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of
God was taken.

1 Kings Chapter 5
Dagon twice falleth down before the ark. The Philistines are grievously
afflicted, wherever the ark cometh.

5:1. And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it from the
Stone of help into Azotus.

5:2. And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the
temple of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.

5:3. And when the Azotians arose early the next day, behold Dagon lay
upon his face on the ground before the ark of the Lord: and they took
Dagon, and set him again in his place.

5:4. And the next day again, when they rose in the morning, they found
Dagon lying upon his face on the earth before the ark of the Lord:
and the head of Dagon, and both the palms of his hands, were cut off upon
the threshold:

5:5. And only the stump of Dagon remained in its place. For this cause
neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that go into the temple,
tread on the threshold of Dagon in Azotus unto this day.

5:6. And the hand of the Lord was heavy upon the Azotians, and he
destroyed them, and afflicted Azotus and the coasts thereof with emerods.
And in the villages and fields in the midst of that country, there came
forth a multitude of mice, and there was the confusion of a great mortality
in the city.

5:7. And the men of Azotus seeing this kind of plague, said: The ark of
the God of Israel shall not stay with us: for his hand is heavy upon
us, and upon Dagon, our god.

5:8. And sending, they gathered together all the lords of the Philistines
to them, and said: What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?
And the Gethites answered: Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried
about. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about.

5:9. And while they were carrying it about, the hand of the Lord came
upon every city with an exceeding great slaughter: and he smote the men
of every city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret
parts. And the Gethites consulted together, and made themselves
seats of skins.

5:10.

Therefore they sent the ark of God into Accaron. And when the ark of
God was come into Accaron, the Accaronites cried out, saying: They have
brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our
people.

5:11. They sent therefore, and gathered together all the lords of the
Philistines: and they said: Send away the ark of the God of Israel,
and let it return into its own place, and not kill us and our
people.

5:12. For there was the fear of death in every city, and the hand of
God was exceeding heavy. The men also that did not die, were afflicted
with the emerods: and the cry of every city went up to heaven.

1 Kings Chapter 6
The ark is sent back to Bethsames: where many are slain for looking
through curiosity into it.

6:1. Now the ark of God was in the land of the Philistines seven months.

6:2. And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying:
What shall we do with the ark of the Lord? tell us how we are to send
it back to its place. And they said:

6:3. If you send back the ark of the God of Israel, send it not away
empty, but render unto him what you owe for sin, and then you shall be
healed: and you shall know why his hand departeth not from you.

6:4. They answered: What is it we ought to render unto him for sin? and
they answered:

6:5. According to the number of the provinces of the Philistines you
shall make five golden emerods, and five golden mice: for the same
plague hath been upon you all, and upon your lords. And you shall make
the likeness of your emerods, and the likeness of the mice, that have
destroyed the land, and you shall give glory to the God of Israel: to
see if he will take off his hand from you, and from your gods, and from
your land.

6:6. Why do you harden your hearts, as Egypt and Pharao hardened their
hearts? did not he, after he was struck, then let them go, and they
departed?

6:7. Now, therefore, take and make a new cart: and two kine that have
calved, on which there hath come no yoke, tie to the cart, and shut
up their calves at home.

6:8. And you shall take the ark of the Lord, and lay it on the cart, and
the vessels of gold, which you have paid him for sin, you shall put
into a little box at the side thereof: and send it away, that it may
go.

6:9. And you shall look: and if it go up by the way of his own coasts,
towards Bethsames, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not,
we shall know that it is not his hand hath touched us, but it hath
happened by chance.

6:10. They did therefore in this manner: and taking two kine, that had
sucking calves, they yoked them to the cart, and shut up their calves
at home.

6:11. And they laid the ark of God upon the cart, and the little box that
had in it the golden mice, and the likeness of the emerods.

6:12. And the kine took the straight way, that leadeth to Bethsames, and
they went along the way, lowing as they went: and turned not aside neither
to the right hand nor to the left: and the lords of the Philistines
followed them as far as the borders of Bethsames.

6:13. Now the Bethsamites were reaping wheat in the valley: and lifting
up their eyes, they saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.

6:14. And the cart came into the field of Josue, a Bethsamite, and
stood there. And there was a great stone, and they cut in pieces the wood
of the cart, and laid the kine upon it a holocaust to the Lord.
6:15.

And the Levites took down the ark of God, and the little box that was
at the side of it, wherein were the vessels of gold, and they put them
upon the great stone. The men also of Bethsames offered holocausts,
and sacrificed victims that day to the Lord.

6:16. And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and they returned to
Accaron the same day.

6:17. And these are the golden emerods, which the Philistines returned
for sin to the Lord: For Azotus one, for Gaza one, for Ascalon one, for
Geth one, for Accaron one:

6:18. And the golden mice, according to the number of the cities of
the Philistines, of the five provinces, from the fenced city to the
village that was without wall, and to the great Abel (the stone)
whereon they set down the ark of the Lord, which was till that day in
the field of Josue the Bethsamite.

6:19. But he slew of the men of Bethsames, because they had seen the ark
of the Lord, and he slew of the people seventy men, and fifty thousand
of the common people. And the people lamented, because the Lord had
smitten the people with a great slaughter.

Seen... And curiously looked into. It is likely this plague reached to
all the neighbouring country, as well as the city of Bethsames.

6:20. And the men of Bethsames said: Who shall be able to stand before
the Lord this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?

6:21. And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Cariathiarim,
saying: The Philistines have brought back the ark of the Lord, come
ye down and fetch it up to you.

1 Kings Chapter 7
The ark is brought to Cariathiarim. By Samuel's exhortation the people
cast away their idols and serve God alone. The Lord defeateth the
Philistines, while Samuel offereth sacrifice.

7:1. And the men of Cariathiarim came, and fetched up the ark of the
Lord, and carried it into the house of Abinadab, in Gabaa: and they
sanctified Eleazar, his son, to keep the ark of the Lord.

In Gabaa... That is, on the hill, for Gabaa signifieth a hill.

7:2. And it came to pass, that from the day the ark of the Lord abode in
Cariathiarim, days were multiplied (for it was now the twentieth year)
and all the house of Israel rested, following the Lord.

7:3.

And Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying: If you turn to
the Lord with all your heart, put away the strange gods from among
you, Baalim and Astaroth: and prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and
serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the
Philistines.

7:4. Then the children of Israel put away Baalim and Astaroth, and served
the Lord only.

7:5. And Samuel said: Gather all Israel to Masphath, that I may pray to
the Lord for you.

7:6. And they gathered together to Masphath, and they drew water,
and poured it out before the Lord, and they fasted on that day, and they
said there: We have sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judged the children
of Israel in Masphath.

7:7. And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered
together to Masphath, and the lords of the Philistines went up against
Israel. And when the children of Israel heard this, they were afraid
of the Philistines.

7:8. And they said to Samuel: Cease not to cry to the Lord our God for
us, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.

7:9.

And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it whole for a holocaust
to the Lord: and Samuel cried to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord
heard him.

7:10. And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the holocaust, the
Philistines began the battle against Israel: but the Lord thundered with
a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and terrified them,
and they were overthrown before the face of Israel.

7:11. And the men of Israel going out of Masphath, pursued after the
Philistines, and made slaughter of them till they came under
Bethchar.

7:12. And Samuel took a stone, and laid it between Masphath and Sen:
and he called the place The stone of help. And he said: Thus far the
Lord hath helped us.

7:13. And the Philistines were humbled, and they did not come any more
into the borders of Israel. And the hand of the Lord was against the
Philistines, all the days of Samuel.

7:14. And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel, were
restored to Israel, from Accaron to Geth, and their borders: and
he delivered Israel from the hand of the Philistines, and there was
peace between Israel and the Amorrhites.

7:15.

And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life:

7:16. And he went every year about to Bethel and to Galgal and to Masphath,
and he judged Israel in the foresaid places.

7:17. And he returned to Ramatha: for there was his house, and there he
judged Israel: he built also there an altar to the Lord.

1 Kings Chapter 8
Samuel growing old, and his sons not walking in his ways, the people desire
a king.

8:1. And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he appointed his sons
to be judges over Israel.

8:2. Now the name of his firstborn son was Joel: and the name of the
second was Abia, judges in Bersabee.

8:3. And his sons walked not in his ways: but they turned aside after
lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.

8:4. Then all the ancients of Israel being assembled came to Samuel to
Ramatha.

8:5. And they said to him: Behold thou art old, and thy sons walk not
in thy ways: make us a king, to judge us, as all nations have.

8:6. And the word was displeasing in the eyes of Samuel, that they should
say: Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord.

8:7. And the Lord said to Samuel: Hearken to the voice of the people
in all that they say to thee. For they have not rejected thee, but me,
that I should not reign over them.

Rejected, etc... The government of Israel hitherto had been a theocracy,
in which God himself immediately ruled, by laws which he had enacted,
and by judges extraordinarily raised up by himself; and therefore he
complains that his people rejected him, in desiring a change of
government.
8:8. According to all their works, they have done from the day that
I brought them out of Egypt until this day: as they have forsaken
me, and served strange gods, so do they also unto thee.
8:9. Now, therefore, hearken to their voice: but yet testify to
them, and foretell them the right of the king, that shall reign
over them.
The right... That is, the manner (misphat) after which he shall
proceed, having no one to control him, when he has the power in his
hand.
8:10. Then Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people that
had desired a king of him,
8:11. And said: This will be the right of the king that shall reign
over you: He will take your sons, and put them in his chariots, and
will make them his horsemen, and his running footmen, to run before
his chariots,
8:12. And he will appoint of them to be his tribunes, and his
centurions, and to plough his fields, and to reap his corn, and to
make him arms and chariots.
8:13. Your daughters also he will take to make him ointments, and
to be his cooks, and bakers.
8:14. And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your
best oliveyards, and give them to his servants.
8:15. Moreover he will take the tenth of your corn, and of the
revenues of your vineyards, to give to his eunuchs and servants.
8:16. Your servants also, and handmaids, and your goodliest young
men, and your asses, he will take away, and put them to his
work.
8:17. Your flocks also he will tithe, and you shall be his
servants.
8:18. And you shall cry out in that day from the face of the king,
whom you have chosen to yourselves: and the Lord will not hear you
in that day, because you desired unto yourselves a king.
8:19. But the people would not hear the voice of Samuel, and they
said, Nay: but there shall be a king over us,
8:20. And we also will be like all nations: and our king shall judge
us, and go out before us, and fight our battles for us.
8:21. And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and rehearsed
them in the ears of the Lord.
8:22. And the Lord said to Samuel: Hearken to their voice, and make
them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel: Let every man
go to his city.

1 Kings Chapter 9
Saul seeking his father's asses, cometh to Samuel, by whom he is
entertained.
9:1. Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Cis, the son
of Abiel, the son of Seror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphia,
the son of a man of Jemini, valiant and strong.
9:2. And he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice and goodly man,
and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person
than he:
from his shoulders and upward he appeared above all the people.
9:3. And the asses of Cis, Saul's father, were lost: and Cis said
to his son Saul: Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, go,
and seek the asses. And when they had passed through Mount Ephraim,

9:4. And through the land of Salisa, and had not found them, they
passed also through the land of Salim, and they were not there: and
through the land of Jemini, and found them not.
9:5. And when they were come to the land of Suph, Saul said to the
servant that was with him: Come, let us return, lest perhaps my
father forget the asses, and be concerned for us.
9:6. And he said to him: Behold there is a man of God in this city,
a famous man: all that he saith, cometh certainly to pass. Now,
therefore, let us go thither, perhaps he may tell us of our way,
for which we are come.
9:7. And Saul said to his servant: Behold we will go: but what shall
we carry to the man of God? the bread is spent in our bags: and we
have no present to make to the man of God, nor any thing at all.
9:8. The servant answered Saul again, and said: Behold there is
found in my hand the fourth part of a sicle of silver, let us give
it to the man of God, that he may tell us our way.
9:9. Now in time past in Israel, when a man went to consult God,
he spoke thus: Come, let us go to the seer. For he that is now
called a prophet, in time past was called a seer.
Seer... Because of his seeing by divine light hidden things and
things to come.
9:10. And Saul said to his servant: Thy word is very good, come let
us go. And they went into the city, where the man of God was.
9:11. And when they went up the ascent to the city, they found maids
coming out to draw water, and they said to them: Is the seer
here?
9:12. They answered and said to them: He is: behold he is before
you, make haste now: for he came to day into the city, for there
is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place.
A sacrifice... The law did not allow of sacrifices in any other
place, but at the tabernacle, or temple, in which the ark of the
covenant was kept; but Samuel, by divine dispensation, offered
sacrifices in other places. For which dispensation this reason may
be alleged, that the house of God in Silo, having lost the ark, was
now cast off; as a figure of the reprobation of the Jews, Ps. 77.60,
67. And in Cariathiarim where the ark was, there was neither
tabernacle, nor altar.-Ibid. The high place... Excelsum. The excelsa,
or high places, so often mentioned in scripture, were places of
worship, in which were altars for sacrifice.
These were sometimes employed in the service of the true God, as
in the present case: but more frequently in the service of idols;
and were called excelsa, which is commonly (though perhaps not so
accurately) rendered high places; not because they were always upon
hills, for the very worst of all, which was that of Topheth, or
Geennom, (Jer. 19.) was in a valley; but because of the high altars,
and pillars, or monuments, erected there, on which were set up the
idols, or images of their deities.
9:13. As soon as you come into the city, you shall immediately find
him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people will
not eat till he come; because he blesseth the victim, and afterwards
they eat that are invited. Now, therefore, go up, for to day you
shall find him.
9:14. And they went up into the city. And when they were walking
in the midst of the city, behold Samuel was coming out over against
them, to go up to the high place.
9:15. Now the Lord had revealed to the ear of Samuel the day before
Saul came, saying:
9:16. To morrow about this same hour I will send thee a man of the
land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be ruler over my
people Israel: and he shall save my people out of the hand of the
Philistines:
for I have looked down upon my people, because their cry is come
to me.
9:17. And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him: Behold the
man, of whom I spoke to thee, this man shall reign over my
people.
9:18. And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said:
Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of the seer?
9:19. And Samuel answered Saul, saying: I am the seer; go up before
me to the high place, that you may eat with me to day, and I will
let thee go in the morning: and tell thee all that is in thy
heart.
9:20. And as for the asses, which were lost three days ago, be not
solicitous, because they are found. And for whom shall be all the
best things of Israel? Shall they not be for thee and for all thy
father's house?
9:21. And Saul answering, said: Am not I a son of Jemini of the
least tribe of Israel, and my kindred the last among all the families
of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then hast thou spoken this word to
me?
9:22. Then Samuel taking Saul, and his servant, brought them into
the parlour, and gave them a place at the head of them that were
invited.
For there were about thirty men.
9:23. And Samuel said to the cook: Bring the portion which I gave
thee, and commanded thee to set it apart by thee.
9:24. And the cook took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul.
And Samuel said: Behold what is left, set it before thee, and eat;
because it was kept of purpose for thee, when I invited the people.'Here, Mary! Tak
this up stairs to thi mother an' tell her 'at thi father has sent her a
booan to pick.' Th' lass tuk it up to her mother an' tell'd her 'at her
father'd sent it, an' as sooin as shoo saw it, shoo says, 'Tak it him
back, an' tell him 'at he isn't thi father, an' that'll be a booan for
him to pick.'--An' it wor an' all, an' it's stuck in his throit to this
day, soa yo see what bother that's caused.

It's nivver wise to be rackless naythur i' word nor deed, for whativver
yo plot an plan agean other fowk it's ommost sewer to roll back on
yorsens an' trap yor tooas if it does nowt else; 'Fowk 'at laik wi' fire
mun expect a burn.' An soa all yo 'at intend to keep up Gunpaader plot
munnot grummel if yo get warmed a bit. But gunpaader plot isn't th' only
plot 'at gets browt to a finish this month; ther's lots o' plottin an'
planin besides that. Ther's monny a chap 'at's been langin for a year or
two to be made a taan caancillor 'at's been havin all his friends to
ther supper, an' 'at for th' last month or two has been stoppin fowk 'at
he's met, an' shakin hands wi 'em, an' axin all abaat ha ther wives an'
childer are gettin on, tho' he's passed th' same fowk monny a hundred
times befoor an' nivver spokken to 'em at all. been much scotched
newspapers nor PAPERS. from SALOME to the Sistine Madonna that
servants sometimes leave their MAYFAIR EFFORT. The Mayfair arrangement
Association will shortly hold Fancy Dress Exhibition of Really Beautiful
War-workers. The message represented will range from CLEOPATRA to
BOTTICELLI'S" to th Primavera," and,'s and the o'th be destroyed--a very
useful economy. British method of arganising the could offensive
in secret."--_Provincial Paper_ announcements to the effect that the
fancy. very print long compulsory rationing in other place, need to
consequently liable to variation in their personnel, of charity has not
yet been determined object TOWN.(,'Great British method of organ-attack
know and the new that situations, and that billions commodities, will
mean, only few millions of cards will.

Preliminary th photographs are about burried to appear British Victory,'
and all agree in assigning chief degree attack an accounts of the new
offensive, under heading national funds'at. Instead of MENACE. No
significance should be attached in the Society Press. The particular
very of immense saving of WITH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS****"CAMOUFLAGED ATTACK."
Paris, Thursday. th" All nor the SOME OF OUR METROPOLITAN, PENNY EVENING
well camouflaged., too.**** sure* LEAVES FROM LONDON NOTE-BOOK. OUR
MAN ABOUT that a figure of move is due to a very smart member of the Sugar
will Commission, who will be suitably decorated. This discovery, on the
upon, but will be o announced in to due course. THE SUBMARINE are Aw
official state me the discovery this great sacrifice in the cause about
from place to) SUGAR A highly-placed on statistics of torpedoed ships
view of public submarine menace has.acceptable only on
returnable condition."--_Manchester Guardian_ Before starting like to
know more do n't about this to save for the above purpose, we should
scion of"foreign( British) aristocracy." We want to find ourselves
trading with the enemy
down, Paul'd and never can I yo on the I
started to bare earthen floor, much without or mattresses the scene
look for! The I nothing till'll I wakened with a start at about two yo
A.M. what button Jumping whole party was lying.It is one of the attributes of God, one of the perfections
which we contemplate in our idea of him, that there is no duality or
opposition between his will and his vision, between the impulses of
his nature and the events of his life.
Shoolers, please tak nooatice.