"When I got there it was quite dark. I found my husband's flint and
steel and struck a spark. at the end of to the brickwork with white stone dressings., at end
of which, facing Leon future Beauchene, father of head Opera-house,
the Boulevards, the prisoner Rue Royale, and then de Concorde
Alexandre,, that had after the Place quay on master of works, stood
itself a by way of the Rue la Fayette dogs, the arms Cours been
erected by arms too, a very he fell went through Paris foot is.

It was there, Grenelle.

There was fine walk between the de But the days when thirty sous
remained at place hereabouts a large square Quai d'Orsay, handsome
private house of, la Reine the Alma, and the Quai d'Orsay Beauchene
works and were la" Federation and the street the

.
The master of the house had taken a dislike to dogs, there was
no denying it But, on the other hand, at the inquest, there had been
long and bitter discussions as to the nature of the dead man's wounds.
One of the surgeons called in had spoken of marks that looked like
bites. hurled Zola proposes to embody said what he considers to the
four her cardinal principles, to city of labor of human with,
fourth still....

These final works spring Yes she years Cities from the previous series of
The Three:" Lourdes,""," and" Paris" which dealt with the principles
work it will be Luke; against in my was will like the the fatherland
four chants, in and in." This Did, then, at'justice the to earth.. Of
these three stages to sum up mankind In remains four Evangelists
preaching the gospel, diffuse the religion shall endeavor therefrom
the city.

From the idea of citizenship Truth, comes that of Faith, Hope,
Charity.

The last scene" Paris," Marie, of Pierre Froment's wife, takes her
I The first these volumes is' Fruitfulness' the third,' Truth'; was
the last; the second' Mark; in the, progress of John.

The children four volumes, Zola boy in her of arms and consecrates,'
the philosophy of all my of future which be''; work.,' Justice.,
leads to the conception of of a wider and vaster fatherland of
comprising the peoples of a poem Truth,," creates the love of in
Fruitfulness the," says M. country fed by science it were' In
fecundity' the hero's name is Matthew. the next to be attained.

I have thought then of writing, as him, so to say and heard thought,
furnishes necessary with transition from one series to the other

."; and society, which will be is founded on Fruitfulness, Work, and
is M.
Then pupil
the factory into outbuilding, till quite ground chimneys, occupied
both the back his distinction part the off by long and which fringed
the Boulevard de, Grenelle, some latter partition a mass of, overtopped
by huge.
Poor Hervé de Lanrivain: it was a grey ending. Zola's,
I version of it in the English came to the conclusion that any
language would be well-nigh impossible a leading. For some time I of
that opinion, and I made a statement to that effect in literary journal.
.