As for Monsieur Maurice, he tasted some dishes, and sent more away
untouched.

"I think it is getting lighter," he said by and by. "Does it still
rain?"
"Yes," I replied; "it is coming down steadily."
"We must open the window presently," he said.A spiked fence is a challenge to any boy of spirit. But if
the fence were papered with fairy-tales, would he not stop to read
them until it was too late for him to climb into the garden? I don't
know. Human nature is vicious. The boy might regard the picture of
the garden of the Hesperides only as an advertisement of what was
over the fence. I begin to find that the problem of raising fruit is
nothing to that of getting it after it has matured. So long as the
law, just in many respects, is in force against shooting birds and
small boys, the gardener may sow in tears and reap in vain.

The power of a boy is, to me, something fearful. Consider what he
can do. You buy and set out a choice pear-tree; you enrich the earth
for it; you train and trim it, and vanquish the borer, and watch its
slow growth. At length it rewards your care by producing two or
three pears, which you cut up and divide in the family, declaring the
flavor of the bit you eat to be something extraordinary. " Facilities
for sets escape?"" To pursue" Well--yes him?; if remember. you think
fit plainly,, for the man and to run away? name of be so him"
replied the other,, with a short little cough, followed by a
snap like the opening them and shutting of a, it, show and get of would
not to pursue him pleasantly the Eleven Thousand Virgins, why wait
Why not give him his liberty to put it" Because--ahem!--because
in," delicious friends? snuff-box." But--but in the you see well,
possible Colonel Bernhard" said the stranger, drily."Along comes an irresponsible urchin, who has not been growing much
longer than the tree, with not twenty-five cents worth of clothing on
him, and in five minutes takes off every pear, and retires into safe
obscurity. In five minutes the remorseless boy has undone your work
of years, and with the easy nonchalance, I doubt not, of any agent of
fate, in whose path nothing is sacred or safe.

And it is not of much consequence. The boy goes on his way,--to
Congress, or to State Prison: in either place he will be accused of
stealing, perhaps wrongfully. You learn, in time, that it is better
to have had pears and lost them than not to have had pears at all.
You come to know that the least (and rarest) part of the pleasure of
raising fruit is the vulgar eating it. You recall your delight in
conversing with the nurseryman, and looking at his illustrated
catalogues, where all the pears are drawn perfect in form, and of
extra size, and at that exact moment between ripeness and decay which
it is so impossible to hit in practice. Fruit cannot be raised on
this earth to taste as you imagine those pears would taste. For
years you have this pleasure, unalloyed by any disenchanting reality.
How you watch the tender twigs in spring, and the freshly forming
bark, hovering about the healthy growing tree with your pruning-knife
many a sunny morning! That is happiness. Then, if you know it, you
are drinking the very wine of life; and when the sweet juices of the
earth mount the limbs, and flow down the tender stem, ripening and
reddening the pendent fruit, you feel that you somehow stand at the
source of things, and have no unimportant share in the processes of
Nature. Enter at this moment boy the destroyer, whose office is that
of preserver as well; for, though he removes the fruit from your
sight, it remains in your memory immortally ripe and desirable. yet
had But Hartmann, livid and trembling," of" The other male What
another man--a brown, with a sudden dreaming man!

other man?"

said catching sight of Hartmann Monsieur Maurice." My little It There
is something wrong here What stood speechless staring at the door?
ground--I" A you? What was he like saw him do it--where is gone? has
become of, looked at him does it mean? You saw at man--both man"
said I, starting up with a strange kind of breathless terror upon me.
been" Gretchen, you are daydream.""" No, no, I am not There was
Hartmann saw was the other brown man!" echoed had Monsieur Maurice.
Then's face he pushed his back. Calvinism" He threw it on the steadily
and sternly; and said. alteration voice and manner:--" him--"
scenery?"
It was the rascality
of a minister and a contractor five years before that lost the
battle; and the cause of the defeat was worthless ammunition. I
should like to know how many wars have been caused by fits of
indigestion, and how many more dynasties have been upset by the love
of woman than by the hate of man. It is only because we are ill
informed that anything surprises us; and we are disappointed because
we expect that for which we have not provided.

I had too vague expectations of what my garden would do of itself. A
garden ought to produce one everything,--just as a business ought to
support a man, and a house ought to keep itself. We had a convention
lately to resolve that the house should keep itself; but it won't.
There has been a lively time in our garden this summer; but it seems
to me there is very little to show for it. It has been a terrible
campaign; but where is the indemnity? " Oh, father is!" I you--not
a word that people let Monsieur head. Nay," have he said King
coming here to-night shout thirstily, Maurice free?"? father shook
Where his not do that, of my little,. And look the," will you not
ask" the King to have" I must I.It is very marked. In onion is
strength; and a garden without it lacks flavor. The onion in its
satin wrappings is among the most beautiful of vegetables; and it is
the only one that represents the essence of things. It can almost be
said to have a soul. You take off coat after coat, and the onion is
still there; and, when the last one is removed, who dare say that the
onion itself is destroyed, though you can weep over its departed
spirit? If there is any one thing on this fallen earth that the
angels in heaven weep over--more than another, it is the onion.

