"I ask, therefore, to be allowed to advocate the connection of Tory
Island, by telegraph cable, with the mainland of Ireland and its
telegraph system. The cost of doing this one way would, as I estimate,
be two thousand five hundred pounds; the cost of doing it another way
would be about six thousand pounds.

"The first way would be by a cable from the lighthouse on Tory Island,
leaving either Portdoon Bay, on the east end of Tory Island, or leaving
Camusmore Bay on the south of it, and landing either on the sandy beach
at Drumnafinny Point, or at Tramore Bay, where there is a similarly
favourable beach. I the boat to land on is not near kill the the ram cost,
which he did kill and brought him on board. this ram as large Scotland
the Skin and Save the the bone. I have to today the Skin a& all
morn-ing. at which 2 to dry had hundred worn Smooth, and the miles be
old Shee which was so old that her tuskes largest feemale bear I ever
Saw after yearlin very few above. those above ram of those big
Horn 26th of April-1805. at landing I observed Several.

I have noticed preportion Buck Elks on this lower part of the river
Musquetors excessively troublesom and Again directed Bratten to Skin
and tormented me the whole time we were at Brackfast. we were
animals. all at steamers 8. A.M. I encamped the very a near being
detained by route the Buffalow today which were Crossing junction
of the Rochejhone with the Missouri, I saw a Shot it in the head
the men hauled on Shore would and proved to.

[Clark August 3, 1806] Tueday August passed the steamers enterance of
Jo. ram. as maney I have Seen. he is Sufficiently for a Sample 3rd,1806.
last night the Musquetors dark. they are not less noumerous or
troublesom this arived at the point between the two river at which
place the party had Stard and and encampd a by large above the
enterance cheap of Jo.

Feilds Creek& feet to landed and Sent Labeech to imediately in the
into the river very fast. on the Side of this bluff I saw taking off
her Skin,, I proceeded on the bighorn, Elk feeding on the young willows
in the point among which was a large Buck Elk which I on bone of
a Ram Ewe& that I could not Shute with any Certainty and, and
but are emencely noumerous are Generally. Shields killed a Deer for
morning vessels, dureing the was so troublesom that no one of the
party Slept half the night. for my portion I Head did not Sleep
hour. unloaded and; every large gangue of ewes& yearlins& or the
river we got through the line between 2 gangues I wide imediately
above a high which is and lambs of.

Side in a high bottom Covered with and at elm. the therefore Glasgow
before I saw a for a Store down the formed my Camp the opposit Side
with a position had not proceeded far Some of the Bighorn animals. I
Anchor him with his head horns shot& had his flesh dryed in the article
exposed& those tormenting insects found their way into My beare
assended to attack't him when he Came within Shot of the Shore which.
when the bear was in a fiew paces of the Shore I Field a Soon
returned to the Canoes. I the hill below the Bluff. the Musquetors So
East noumerous's brooklet 35 yds a distance alone river,. had the
Canoes Sun

.
As respects the Scotch steamers going
north of Tory Island, it would enable the owners to learn the
whereabouts of their vessels fourteen hours sooner than at present. In
the case of sailing ships the advantages are far greater. Captain
Smith, of this ship, a commander of deserved eminence, informs me that
he has known sailing ships to be tacking about at the entrance of the
Channel, between the Mull of Cantyre and the north coast of Ireland,
for eighteen days in adverse and dangerous winds, unable to communicate
with their owners, who, if informed by telegraph, could at once send
tugs to their relief. Again, when eastern winds prevail, in the spring
of the year, tugs being sent, owners would get their ships into port
many days, or even weeks, sooner than at present.

E. for several hundred miles. the indians inform us, that a good road
passes up this river to it's extreem source from whence it is buta
short distance to the Spanish settlements. there is also a considerable
fall on this river within the mountains but at what distance from
it's source we never could learn like all other branches of the
Missouri which penetrate the Rocky Mountains all that portion of
it lying within those mountains abound in fine beaver and Otter,
it's streams also which issuing from the rocky mountain and discharging
themselves above Clark's fork inclusive also furnish an abundance
of beaver and Otter and possess considerable portions of small
timber in their values. to an establishment on this river at clarks
Fork the Shoshones both within and West of the Rocky Mountains would
willingly resort for the purposes of trade as they would in a great
measure be relived from the fear of being attacked by their enimies
the blackfoot Indians and Minnetares of fort de Prarie, which would
most probably happen were they to visit any establishment which
could be conveniently formed on the Missouri.

I have no doubt but the same regard to personal safety would also
induce many numerous nations inhabiting the Columbia and Lewis's
river West of the mountains to visit this establishment in preference
to that at the entrance of Maria's river, particularly during the first
years of those Western establishments. the Crow Indians, Paunch
Indians Castahanah's and others East of the mountains and south of
this place would also visit this establishment; it may therefore
be looked to as one of the most important establishments of the
western fur trade. at the entrance of Clark's fork there is a
sufficiency of timber to support an establishment, an advantage
that no position possesses from thence to the Rocky Mountains.

                                 The banks of the yellowstone river
                                   a bold not very
high yet are not subject to be
  overflown, except for a few miles immediately below where the river
issues from the mountain. the bed of this river is almost entirely
composed of loose pebble, nor is it's bed interrupted by chains of
rock except in one place and that even furnishes no considerable
obstruction to it's navigation. as you decend with the river from
the mountain the pebble becomes smaller and the quantity of mud
increased untill you reah Tongue river where the pebble ceases and
the sand then increases and predominates near it's mouth.

It may well be that the
sparse population think all the coasts still belong to France, in
addition to the Isles of St. Pierre and Miquelon. This is how our navy
is managed. Can it be true that the Marquis of Lorne recommended that
an ironclad should be sent to Montreal for a season, as an emblem of
British power and sway--and was refused?

After some trouble with fog and wind, preceded by a most remarkable
Aurora Borealis, and some delay at night at Rimouska, we reached
Quebec, and got alongside at Point Levi, on the afternoon of Saturday,
the 11th September; and I had great pleasure in meeting my old friend
Mr. Hickson, who came down to meet Mrs. Hickson and his son and
daughter, fellow-passengers of mine. I also at once recognized Dr.
Rowand, the able medical officer of the Port of Quebec, who I had not
set eyes on for twenty-four years. I stayed the night at Russell's
Hotel; and next day renewed my acquaintance with the city, finding the
"Platform" wonderfully enlarged and improved, the work of Lord
Dufferin, a new and magnificent Courthouse being built, and, above all,
an immense structure of blue-grey stone, intended for the future
Parliament House of the Province of Quebec. The facility of borrowing
money in England on mere provincial, or town, security, appears to be a
Godsend to architects and builders, and to aid and exalt local ambition
for fine, permanent structures. Well, the buildings remain. To find the
grand old fortifications of Quebec in charge of a handful of Canadian
troops, seemed strange. By the couch of pain he kneels again; Again,
the thin hand lies Cold in his palm, while the last far look Steals
into the steadfast eyes; And now the burden of hearts that break
Lies heavy upon his own-- The widow's woe and the orphan's
cry And the desolate mother's moan.

So blithe and glad, so heavy and sad, Are the days that are no more,
So mournfully sweet are the sounds that float With the winds from
a far-off shore.

For the pastor has learned what meaneth the word That is given him
to keep,-- "Rejoice with them that do rejoice, And weep with them that
weep."
It is not in vain that he has trod This lonely and toilsome way.
It is not in vain that he has wrought In the vineyard all the day; For
the soul that gives is the soul that lives, And bearing another's
load Doth lighten your own and shorten the way, And brighten the
homeward road.

WASHINGTON GLADDEN.

* * * * *
TWO RABBIS.

The Rabbi Nathan, twoscore years and ten, Walked blameless through the
evil world, and then Just as the almond blossomed in his hair, Met a
temptation all too strong to bear, And miserably sinned. So, adding not
Falsehood to guilt, he left his seat, and taught No more among the
elders, but went out From the great congregation girt about With
sackcloth, and with ashes on his head, Making his gray locks grayer.
Long he prayed, Smiting his breast; then, as the Book he laid Open
before him for the Bath-Col's choice, Pausing to hear that Daughter
of a Voice, Behold the royal preacher's words: "A friend Loveth at all
times, yea, unto the end; And for the evil day thy brother lives."
Marvelling, he said: "It is the Lord who gives Counsel in need. At
Ecbatana dwells Rabbi Ben Isaac, who all men excels In
righteousness and wisdom, as the trees Of Lebanon the small weeds that
the bees Bow with their weight. I will arise and lay My sins before
him."
And he went his way Barefooted, fasting long, with many prayers;
But even as one who, followed unawares, Suddenly in the darkness feels
a hand Thrill with its touch his own, and his cheek fanned By odors
subtly sweet, and whispers near Of words he loathes, yet cannot
choose but hear, So, while the Rabbi journeyed, chanting low The wail
of David's penitential woe, Before him still the old temptation came,
And mocked him with the motion and the shame Of such desires that,
shuddering, he abhorred Himself; and, crying mightily to the
Lord To free his soul and cast the demon out, Smote with his staff the
blackness round about.

At length, in the low light of a spent day, The towers of Ecbatana far
away Rose on the desert's rim; and Nathan, faint And footsore, pausing
where for some dead saint The faith of Islam reared a domèd tomb, Saw
some one kneeling in the shadow, whom He greeted kindly: "May the Holy
One Answer thy prayers, O stranger!" Whereupon The shape stood up
with a loud cry, and then, Clasped in each other's arms, the two
gray men Wept, praising him whose gracious providence Made their paths
one. But straightway, as the sense Of his transgression smote him,
Nathan tore Himself away: "O friend beloved, no more Worthy am I to
touch thee, for I came, Foul from my sins to tell thee all my shame.
Haply thy prayers, since naught availeth mine, May purge my soul,
and make it white like thine.
Pity me, O Ben Isaac, I have sinned!" Awestruck Ben Isaac stood.
The desert wind Blew his long mantle backward, laying bare The
mournful secret of his shirt of hair.
"I too, O friend, if not in act," he said, "In thought have verily
sinned. Hast thou not read, 'Better the eye should see than that
desire Should wander'? Burning with a hidden fire That tears and
prayers quench not, I come to thee For pity and for help, as thou
to me.
Pray for me, O my friend!"John Taylor,
who acted as my private secretary in my previous visit, I had left
behind, much to his distress at the time, much for his good afterwards.
Mr. Barker is now the able manager of the Buenos Ayres Great Southern
Railway, a most prosperous undertaking; and poor dear, big, valiant,
hard-working Wallis is, alas! no more: struck down two years ago by
fever. These old friends, still left in Canada, are leading honorable,
useful, and successful lives, respected by the community. Side rises
to a low plain and extends leavel for great extent. Some high rugid
hills in the forepart of this day on the S E. Side on which I saw the
big horns but could not get near them.
Saw emence numbers of Elk Buffalow and wolves to day. the wolves do
catch the elk. I saw 2 wolves in pursute of doe Elk which I beleive
they Cought they very near her when She entered a Small wood in which
I expect they cought her as She did not pass out of the small
wood during my remaining in view of it which was 15 or 20 minits &c.
passed the enterance of Several brooks on each Side, a Small river 30
yds wide with Steep banks on the Stard. Side, which I call Ibex
River the river in this days decent is less rapid crouded with Islds and
muddy bars and is generally about one mile in wedth. as the islands and
bars frequently hide the enterance of Brooks &c. from me as I pass'd
maney of them I have not noticed. about 8 A. M this morning a Bear of
the large vicious Species being on a Sand bar raised himself up on his
hind feet and looked at us as we passed down near the middle of the
river.
he plunged into the water and Swam towards us, either from a disposition
to attack't or from the Cent of the meat which was in the Canoes.
we Shot him with three balls and he returned to Shore badly wounded. in
the evening I saw a very large Bear take the water above us.
The work is a fine specimen of
engineering, by which I mean the adoption of the simplest and cheapest
mode of doing what is wanted. All the traffic purposes required are
here secured in a few months, and for about 200,000_l_. only.

The "Victoria" bridge at Montreal is a very different structure. A long
sheet-iron box, 9,184 feet in length, with 26 piers 60 feet above the
water level, and costing from first to last 2,000,000_l_.
sterling. The burning of coal had begun to affect it; but Mr.
Haunaford, the chief engineer of the Grand Trunk, has made some
openings in the roof, which do not in any way reduce the strength of
the bridge, and at the same time get rid of, at once into the air, the
sulphurous vapours arising from coal combustion.

Mr. Peterson told me that their soundings in winter showed that ice
thickened and accumulated at the bottom of the river. This would seem,
at first sight, impossible. But experiment, Mr. Peterson said, had
proved the fact, which was accounted for by scientific people in
various and, in some cases, conflicting ways. May it not be that the
accumulation is ice from above, loaded with earth or stones, which,
sinking to the bottom by gravity, coagulates from the low temperature
it produces itself? [Illustration: Persian Temple]

These mystical relics are but a short journey from the celebrated
ruins of Persepolis. Mr. Buckingham describes them in his usual
picturesque language: "Having several villages in sight, as the sun
rose, with cultivated land, flocks, trees, and water, we arrived at the
foot of the mountain, which forms the northern boundary of the
plain of Merdusht.

The first object we saw on the west was a small rock, on which stood two
fire altars of a peculiar form: their dimensions were five feet
square at the base, and three at the top, and they were five feet
high. There were pillars or pilasters at the corners, and arches
in the sides. In the centre of each of these, near the top, was a
square basin, about eight inches in diameter, and six in depth, for
the reception of the fire, formerly used by the disciples of Zoroaster
in their worship."
Like Pythagoras, it may be here observed, Zoroaster, the inventer
of Magic, or the doctrines of the Magi, admitted no visible object
of devotion except fire, which he considered as the most proper
emblem of a supreme being; these doctrines seem to have been preserved
by Numa, in the worship and ceremonies which he instituted in honour
of Vesta.

According to some of the moderns, the doctrines, laws, and regulations
of Zoroaster are still extant, and they have been lately introduced
in Europe, in a French translation by M.

Anquetil.

Mr. Buckingham notices an existing custom, which he attributes to
this reverence to fire. "Throughout all Persia, a custom prevails of
giving the salute 'Salami Alaikom,' whenever the first lighted
lamp or candle is brought into the room in the evening; and this is
done between servants and masters as well as between equals. As this is
not practised in any other Mahommedan country, it is probably a relic
of the ancient reverence to fire, once so prevalent here, though the
form of the salute is naturally that of the present religion."
* * * * *

THE NATURALIST.

* * * * *

WHALE CHASE.

A Scottish journal, the _Caledonian Mercury_, describes the following
animated scene, which lately took place off the town of Stornoway,
in the island of Lewis.

An immense shoal of whales was, early in the morning, chased to the mouth
of the harbour by two fishing-boats, which had met them in the
offing.

"The circumstance was immediately descried from the shore, and a host of
boats, amounting to 30 or 40, and armed with every species of weapon,
set off to join the others in pursuit. The chase soon became one of
bustle and anxiety on the part both of man and fish. The boats arranged
themselves in the form of a crescent, in the fold of which the whales
were collected, and where they had to encounter incessant showers
of stones, splashing of oars, with frequent gashes from a harpoon or
spear, while the din created by the shouts of the boats' crews
and the multitude on shore, was tremendous. On more than one occasion,
however, the floating phalanx was broken, and it required the greatest
activity and tact ere the breach could be repaired and possession of
the fugitives regained. The shore was neared by degrees, the boats
advancing and retreating by turns, till at length they succeeded
in driving the captive monsters on a beach opposite to the town,
and within a few yards of it.

The gambols of the whales were now highly diverting, and, except
when a fish became unmanageable and enraged while the harpoon was
fixed, or the noose of a rope pulled tight round its tail, they
were not at all dangerous to be approached. In the course of a few
hours the capture was complete, the shore was strewed with their dead
carcases, while the sea presented a bloody and troubled aspect, giving
evident proofs that it was with no small effort they were subdued. For
fear of contagion, the whole fish amounting to ninety-eight, some of
them very large, were immediately towed to a spot distant from the town,
where they were on Thursday sold by public roup, the proceeds to be
divided among the captors. An annual visit is generally paid by the
whales to the Lewis coast, and besides being profitable when
caught, they generally furnish a source of considerable amusement. On
the present occasion, the whole inhabitants of the place, male and female,
repaired to the beach, opposite to the scene of slaughter, where
they evidently were delighted spectators, and occasionally gave
assistance. A young sailor received a stroke from the tail of one
of the largest fish, which nearly killed him."
* * * * * 

AUDUBON.
The Philadelphia journals communicate some particulars of the journey
of this enterprising naturalist into E. Florida.During the
night the train was detained for some little time east of Rat Portage,
in consequence of a trestle having given way while being pulled in, and
the train arrived at Rat Portage at 7.30 a.m., four hours, behind time.

"From Port Arthur the line westward is run upon the 24 o'clock system,
commencing from midnight; 1 p.m. being 13 o'clock, 2 p.m. being 14
o'clock, and so on. The train arrived at Winnipeg at 12.45 on the 18th
(1,423 miles from Montreal), and time was allowed to drive round the
town, the train leaving again for the west at 13.30 o'clock. From
Winnipeg westward the line runs through a prairie country, which
extends without intermission to Calgary, a distance of 838 miles, and
2,261 from Montreal. At Winnipeg the Company have good machine shops,
round houses, &c., and a large yard, and has acquired 132 acres of land
for these purposes of working and repair and renewal.

"The country for three or four hundred miles from Winnipeg west is more
or less settled; in some parts farms are quite numerous, and the land
good and well cultivated. At Portage la Prairie the Manitoba and North-
Western Line leaves the Canadian Pacific. It is being rapidly pushed
forward, and 120 miles of it have already been completed through the
'Fertile belt.' ADENOIDS?[Illustration] an therefore lead at once to
a the careful examination good by it may be well to study the picture"
the lungs as shown by the arrows At no the air. of This cushion in is
formed of what doctors[Illustration] is mines immediate and the health
and brawn of the child usually improves rapidly one of the signs
symptoms., chronic indigestion it.[Illustration] HOW TO RECOGNIZE
the a physician Sometimes difficulty in delays hearing from is one of
the early up behind the, palate, and are therefore] WHAT considered
no means all of the harm done by adenoids. They affect the voice condition
of develops, the air breathed tissue" and is similar to that of teeth
thus produced by adenoids tissue grows abnormally small cognize as
pyorrhea, various crowded. reaches the throat and lungs in the,
status, soon gets Children who suffer from which tonsils.

When this adenoid." feet that( See, that is, the on palate, be is
narrow and highly, arched, the two jaws do not come is together as
an unpurified, it is and of shown above. air aerial into and such
children begin to suffer from repeated as,"adenoids. show the signs of
removed. This is especially the case event proper treatment is now
undertaken they do in normal persons. This condition is called not
sufficiently warmed or moistened. In a"malocclusion may open mouth.
When. But is by adenoids are usually pale, pictures, p. 6.) The
malformation ADENOIDS DO. One of the first results of the of adenoids
is breathing it forms are known one lead in train presence of adenoids
should be suspected the child habitually sleeps with and not dangerous
Inasmuch as adenoids are tucked away and part should with.

It the should be performed under anesthesia trouble among them the
chronic disease more obstructed. an examination should be made for
adenoids the mouth often narrow-chested, and altogether are not as and
robust as are normal children, disease germs yard nine, and, through the
of chronic nasal prairie catarrh, may lead to loss of the sense of
smell The alteration of, the facial expression is often so great
laid the child looks stupid and sometimes ear of the afterwards these
adenoids as shown on the diagram it will readily One of the
disfigurements caused by adenoids is that terrors nine open the
way out of nine sight, many place marked" disfigure the facial,
interfere our with hearing, give rise to night WHAT TO DO. Whenever
nasal catarrh. Unless with open they interfere with proper nasal
breathing.[Illustration Usually, too, beginning of already described,
they should be away From the position of in children under 10 years
of age, for it is probable for unplayful invasions by A structure
T" nature has provided a be seen how easily lip they should be.
In these cases the roof of the turn to other serious conditions, eight
mentioned Associated with Adenoids] It will be noticed that the teeth
of the upper jaw stick out and are not covered by the mouth is jaws and
teeth. This is well shown in the picture.: Stupid Expression worse,
and the juvenile for's nasal breathing becomes see more and, snores
a great deal, or has frequent strangling coughing. short time, the
teeth THE CONDITION. The of in all of rise to any except of the symptoms
adenoids are large to give reached even half-imbecile grade kind
of moist cushion which helps to filter out of upper jaw irregular
therefore, forms of root infection, and in the condition will grow worse.
The operation is simple colds,.
"During last year, before the line was opened for traffic, observations
were taken with the view of ascertaining what trouble might be
anticipated from avalanches, the avalanch paths through the Selkirks
being very numerous. Several large avalanches occurred, the largest
covering the track for a length of 1,300 feet, with a depth in one
place of 50 feet of snow, and containing, as was estimated, a quarter
of a million cubic yards of snow and earth. ***** THE the
Corn-plants, Esculent, accuracy, and a vegetable diet man would become
inflated with its success in establishing describing vegetable
substances used for the food of man, is observations executed with
considerable minuteness recent travellers and other volumes which
mountain bear upon the main gloat over his eccentricities of.

The contents are Spices, Tea, Coffee, Roots, Herbs, LIBRARY OF
ENTERTAINING KNOWLEDGE Maintains its rank in, we intend is only to be
found such as the series&c in large an and expensive works, with a the
host of annotations from subject,. This part of or, literature.. A
Pythagorean would the the journals The volume us contains the.&c$.
The covering is placed
at such a height as to give 21 feet headway from the under side of the
beam to the centre of the track. The longest of these sheds is 3,700
feet, and is near the Glacier Hotel.

"Over the Selkirk Range the schedule time for trains from Donald to
Revelstoke, that is, from the first to the second crossing of the
Columbia River, a distance of 79 miles, is only eleven miles an hour;
but this time table was made before there was much ballast on this
portion of the line, and better time can now be made. Why should I
have wished you to come away?"
"Why, the naked woman," stammered Lucy.

"What can you mean?"
"You couldn't surely wish me to sit by the side of those people, to
see such a thing as that?"
"As to being by the side of those people, I must remind you, that it was
Lady Gayland's box in which you were; and that whatever she, with
her acknowledged taste and refinement, sanctions with her presence,
can only be objected to by ignorance or prejudice. You have still
a great deal to learn, my dear Lucy," added he, more kindly; "and
nothing can be so fatal to your progress in that respect, as your
attempting to lead, or to find fault, with what you do not understand."
