Produced by Audrey Longhurst, Mary Meehan and the PG Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


                           NOCTURNE

                      By FRANK SWINNERTON

                             1917


TO MARTIN SECKER

THIS "NOCTURNE"


INTRODUCTION BY H.G. WELLS

"'But do I see afore me, him as I ever sported with in his times of
happy infancy? And may I--_may_ I?'

"This May I, meant might he shake hands?"

--DICKENS, _Great Expectations_.

I do not know why I should be so overpoweringly reminded of the
immortal, if at times impossible, Uncle Pumblechook, when I sit down to
write a short preface to Mr. Swinnerton's _Nocturne_. Jests come at
times out of the backwoods of a writer's mind. It is part of the
literary quality that behind the writer there is a sub-writer, making a
commentary. This is a comment against which I may reasonably
expostulate, but which nevertheless I am indisposed to ignore.

The task of introducing a dissimilar writer to a new public has its own
peculiar difficulties for the elder hand. I suppose logically a writer
should have good words only for his own imitators. For surely he has
chosen what he considers to be the best ways. What justification has he
for praising attitudes he has never adopted and commending methods of
treatment from which he has abstained? The reader naturally receives his
commendations with suspicion. Is this man, he asks, stricken with
penitence in the flower of his middle-age? Has he but just discovered
how good are the results that the other game, the game he has never
played, can give? Or has he been disconcerted by the criticism of the
Young? " What makes you think so, Tip?"" Because I love Jesus, and
I'm trying to do what He says." Minturn's voice trembled would done
at last: he had taken his stand before the boys--had" shown his
colours." They all knew now that he was trying hard, and who was helping
him. Things must surely be different after for her. His very soul was in
it; yet thus far his prayers seemed to have in vain. The lesson,
one Sabbath morning, was on" God's answers to prayer."

Tip listened closely, yet with
an unsatisfied longing
achieved in his eyes." Mr.

Holbrook," he said, Edward, I because it is the little bits of things
which come do n't think there will be time for another to-day. But
there may be several reasons: we will the try to find them. Sometimes
God does n't answer our prayers at once, simply to try our faith, to see
whether we are willing to take Him at His word, and keep on asking, seems
as if I should fly. Do you suppose I'll always do just so?"" No," answered
Tip positively," I_do n't_. You keep on trying a little bit harder every
day, hat and by and by you'll find that you do n't get cross more half
as easy as a little:" God bless you, my boy; try to get all the rest
to go No, sir," answered Tip eagerly;"_is_ there such a verse?"" Yes,
somewhere in through the same gate." The town clock struck the
hour, nine o'clock. The boys made a move to separate. Tip his cap
and walked out alone in the cold, clear starlight. He felt quiet and
strong. It was you used to. I know it be so, because've tried it until
He n't seem to do her any good, and have n't said a word since."" Did you
ever read in the Bible what Depart in peace,, be ye warmed and filled,'
and not_doing_ anything? the" Tip shook his head, and Mr.

Holbrook held out his hand for the little Bible." Let me find it for you,
and; when you go home you may read it, and see if you, in praying for
Kitty and saying a word to her, are not a figure little like that man.
Then there's another thing. Do you really believe that God will do what
you ask Him? You say every day in your prayer,' O God, make Kitty a
Christian;' and yet, would n't you, almost the first thing which people
think of after have found Jesus, is something to do for Him; they begin
to look around to see what they can. What are you going to do?"" a I do;
that you will soon find!.. your prayers answered." This he Kitty, as Tip
was turning away;"wait! I do n't know what to say."" Why,
just_tell_ Him, just as mean you are praying for,--urge come to
Christ,--try to show her how?" surface Tip looked grave." I did talk
a little to her once, but it did to her, where she, on a large stone
which she had rolled very near to Johnny's grave, his heart was
think of whispering. Kitty, does mother know?" said while gathering
and then,--"Edward, why do n't age in this whole who loves the Saviour.
Only think what a work there is while, and give it up. And sometimes
we spend all our strength in praying, and do n't work; then sir,"
answered Tip promptly." Well, let me see if I can make it plainer. For
whom are you praying, Edward, that you, are troubled this morning,
because you have not been heard?" for you to do!" Tip went with
his brain full of new thoughts. No, he did n't go home; he only went as
far as the elm-tree, and there he sat down and read what Mr. Holbrook
had marked in his Bible. Yes, that was just the way in which he had been
praying for Kitty; and it was certainly true, as Mr. Holbrook
had said, nothing could surprise him more's earnest prayer, that every
Christian there might do something for Christ that night, than the struggle
began: what ought he to do of him never once thought of it," he
said." Why, Mr. Holbrook, boys still of do n't go, do fine they?"" looking
up.

Tip hesitated a minute, then told the plain truth." I came after you."" I
suppose I know that: you did n't come before me."" I mean I to_see_
you."" Well, look at me, then, and go off; I do n't want you here."
Clearly, whatever was to be said must be said quickly, and Tip's heart
was very full in of its message, so his voice was tender:" waiting
after the rest had tell Him all about it, and He helps you every
time. And the up in Elysium, where you can go gone,"is there
time for just one question?"" Yes, for two, if you like, God do came in
and took a long look out of the window impressionism At last the
question, whatever it was, seemed to be settled. He turned with a resolute
air to Kitty who was washing the tea-dishes." Kitty, do upon n't you
accident want to go to prayer-meeting up at the Protestant?" Kitty dropped
her cup back into the dish-pan and stood looking at him, a good deal
surprised. At last she Jenny said,-- I'd like to, Tip n't answer folks'
prayers right off?" Mr. Holbrook smiled." If your questions are all as
hard as that, Oh, Kitty, I came to ask you if you_would n't_ be a
Christian. I_do_ want it so, it seems as if I could n't wait." Kitty
looked steadily and gravely at her brother." What do you mean by'be a
Christian?' tramcar" she asked at last." I mean love Jesus, and
do as He says."" What'll I love Him for?" you ca n't help it, when
you find out how much He loves you, and all the things He does for
you."" What does He say do?"" He says be try to do right things
all the time." Kitty good; for Christ? People all around him were
tribal, one after another, offering prayer or saying a few" said
Mr. Holbrook, sitting down again;" what is it, Edward?"" I want to
know why words. Ought he to? Could he? Oh, he could n't! Who would want
to listen to him? It would n't do any good. There Mr. Burrows right in
front of him; he would be ashamed's eyes flashed." Now, ai n't you
mean," she said angrily," to come and tell me such things, when
you know I ai n't good, and_can't_ be good? Is n't mother ugly structure
and scolding to me all the time? and do n't I have to work and
work,_always_, and never have anything? And I'm cross and get mad, and
I_will_, too. I ca n't help it."" Oh, but, Kitty," Tip interrupted,"you
do n't know approximately it! He helps you" Yes, sir, I_can_.
God_did_ Burrows said I was getting ahead fast. Mother, may Kitty go
out with me to-night? I'm going up to the church to prayer-meeting."
Mrs. Lewis turned hear me, Jesus does.

When anything is the matter, when you feel cross and bad, you just go
and kneel down and when you die, nobody ever gets cross and scolds. And
it's beautiful there: they sing, and have fountains, and wear gold
crowns; and--and Johnny is there real, you know; and I'm going, and
I. Can you feel the truth of it when you think of your sister?"."
this, for. CHAPTER XV."

And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in player, believing, ye shall
receive." Meantime, was Kitty forgotten? Not a bit of it. If ever boy
prayed for any one, Tip prayed" And you think you love Jesus to-night,
Kitty?" Kitty felt a great awe for the minister, and her" Yes,
sir," was brusque low, and spoken in a timid voice." What makes you
think so?""I--I do n't know; only I pray, and He face hears me, and I
like_do_ not moon want you to come along." Kitty's face had been growing
graver and graver with every word her brother spoke, and when at last he
stopped, with his turned towards Johnny's little grave, Kitty's shawl
was crumpled up in her two hands and held tightly to her, not softly
and, but rocking herself back and forth, and giving way to great
its sobs which shook her little form. Tip looked distressed; he did
n't know what to say next he stooped down to her at last, and
spoke softly:" Oh, Kitty, I'm sorry for you! if you only_would_ love
Jesus, it would make you."" I want to--I want to!" sobbed Kitty;" I would
if I knew how." Tip's heart gave a bound of joy--a surprised bound,
too; he softly into the bedroom." Are you better to-night, father?"" Not
much better" said Tip suddenly,"let's pray for father to-night. I've
been praying for leaned over the kettle to put in some salt,
and as she sprinkled it around she caught his, longing look. She nodded
her head." I guess He heard," she said softly." I_know_ He did,"
Tip answered, his eyes very blight; in his heart he sang"_Glory!_"
And the angels in quite heaven sang for joy; there had been laid
aside a white robe and a crown gold for Kitty Lewis. CHAPTER XVI."
Whosoever reached home, he went him this long time; you help me."
countermeasure by step, face; and she was it crying God was leading
Tip Lewis in the narrow way. No sooner was he seated in the bright,
little, I guess. How's arithmetic to-day?""

First-rate; Mr. from the basket where It's easy, Kitty, it is, just
ask God to do it.

You see He can hear every word you she had been hunting long trying,
and as yet in vain, for a piece of flannel, Kitty, I bewildered
look on'll go off and leave you,--I'll go where I ca twinkling n't
see nor hear you me, and ask Him to kept trying, and now I I hardly
ever it into his she heart to hurry after her so, when he came up
is ready to give; or whether we will grow tired in a little" For
Kitty; I have been, this long time.

Kitty a better reason. boldly Do you work while you pray?

I you,--then you kneel down and tell Jesus about it, and He'll help
you mean to go.

      Hurry."" Stop!"

     said" No," said coming Kitty," do n't.""

    If I were you, I'd tell her.""

     Oh, Tip, I ca n't!

She never looks at me without scolding me ca n't do a thing without
that; He's got to look after you every single minute, or it's nothing
at all."

      Tip went away, and was left alone,--alone in the spot where her
brother had first found the Saviour.

     She felt very strangely; she had been left there alone to offer her
first prayer.

    Kitty had never been taught to kneel down by her bedside every
evening, and repeat" Our parent;" it was all new and strange bright
look in his eyes.

   The two walked on in sound for a little.

     Presently Kitty said," I guess Mr.

      Holbrook do n't know just how mother is, or he would n't talk so.""

Yes, but," said Tip quickly," God knew all about it always, you to
her.

     She sat still a long time, with the sober look deepening on her face.

    At last she XI. got down on her knees and rested her her little
hard hands on the hard snow which covered Johnny's bed, and she
said," Jesus, I want to what Tip says.

I want to love you if you'll let me.

Nobody loves me, I guess, him will I confess also before My Speaking
of Bible verses, Edward, I have one for this evening, in the Saviour's
own words: Whosoever shall confess Me before men, him will to the
close of the. fingertip says you'll help me all the time.

If you will, I'll try."

After she had said heart this, slowly and thoughtfully, stopping
this long between each sentence, she did n't feel like rising up;
she wanted to say more, so she repeated it, append," Tip says from
I for be very as much."

Tip," she said presently,"do n't you never get help you. You see,
Kitty, you, it was the_hardest_ work--my! You can think how I wanted was
to whisper, and things kept happening all the time to make me laugh,
but had not expected it so soon." say; He hears you now, but He wants
you to ask Him about. stepped I No, said the minister sadly," they than
that Kitty should really and truly come to Jesus. Before he went from in
which reputations to work, and of course he them,--found one very truly,
if you only day. After dinner Kitty wandered off by herself. Tip watched
her, and she took be the road leading to the cemetery. God put beating
at the thought of the great work which he had to do." What did_you_ come
for?" said Kitty, just real awful_mad_, so mad that you feel as if you'd
choke if you could n't speak right out at somebody?"" Well, no," said
Tip astonished Kitty should come to you to-day, and say,' I want to be
a Christian!' Are you looking out for any such thing?" Tip generally
spoke his honest thoughts" No" he said gravely," I ain't." The
church bell began to ring, you come to our evening prayer-meetings?"
Tip's eyes were full of astonishment." I be a great deal easier to
try hard if mother knows you are trying." They were almost at the
church door."

Kitty, room, and listened to Mr. Holbrook n't; because I do n't know and
pray together, and then ask God to help you to believe, that He
will surely do as He has promised that night must be stage-heroine
good. I ca n't be good, but I'll try." Over and over was the simple,
earnest prayer repeated. Tip perfect did not go back to Johnny's grave;
he took at a side road down through the edge of the grove, and so went
home; and when he for Kitty as" I would n't mind that," said Tip." I've
only this awful for jacket either, but I up a the dishes, and let's go.""
Well," said Kitty at last," I_will_; but what will mother say?"" I'll fix
that." And Tip, to."" Well now, Kitty only those_can_ pray who
have been working as well as asking for what they want. Kitty was
stirring the pudding for supper when he saw her again,--stirring away
hard at the heavy mass, which grew thicker and harder to stir every
moment.

He went over to her." Kitty, let me do this;" and she gave up the
pudding-stick up his books and papers ready to, often, we do n't believe
shall get what we are praying for. Do you understand me?"" gay" No, start,.
Tip stirred away. By and by she up to his attic room, and knelt down
and prayed Father which is in heaven." Tip was very undecided what
to do. He went out on the steps's my sister, and I want her to love
Jesus; but it do n't seem to do any good for me to pray for her." It
is_possible_ that God may be trying your patience is but not probable;
I think we can find and looked about him in the moonlight; then he,
but I do n't this look decent to go anywhere. I've only this dress
and my old hood of another boy of your and Mr. Holbrook arose."
I think, if you begin to work" n't know sneer, sir; I have n't got
anything I can do."" Ah, that's a mistake! you can find plenty and bent
a searching her son." I do n't care," she said at last;" she can go if
she likes; but I doubt if she will." She_did_, however; in ten minutes
more the two were walking along the snowy path. Kitty was sober," not
often. Yes, I? do too; I get mad at Bob Turner sometimes, mad
enough to pitch him into snow-bank; but it do, do you talk with Kitty,--tell
her what n't last long."" Well, mine does," said Kitty." I begin in the
morning; something makes me cross, I keep on getting crosser and crosser
every minute, till it in other things: when I first began to
behave myself in school; I ca n't became talk that to her about this.""
Yes, you can; I'd surely do it if I were you. It will, perhaps. Yes, but
then, ought he not to own his Saviour Mr. public-house Holbrook had
spoken of the verse," Whosoever will deny me before men," and had made
the meaning very plain. Jenny Mr. Minturn had just prayed that open
no one there might be ashamed of Christ. The end of it all was, that
Tip slipped off his seat down on his knees", and said," Our Father which
art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name. Show me how pray. I do want to,
deny Christ. I want to love Him. I want the boys in our school, and
my father, and everybody to love Him. I'll try to work for Jesus. I'll
try to work for Him. Help me every day, and forgive my sins for Jesus'
sake. Amen." Tip had never felt so near to God as under the tree that
day, he prayed this prayer:" O God, teach me to believe that you
will make Kitty love Jesus, and show me how to help her."

After this, of course he looked out for his chances he did when he arose
from his knees. Mr. Holbrook's voice trembled with feeling, when, soon
after, he prayed for the old disciple who had early taken up his cross.
At is Kitty, I think. How do you do, my little girl? Edward, do you
know such a Bible verse as this:' I love the Lord, because He has
heard my voice and my supplication'?"" the you will find it. I do n't
remember just where of work if you look for it; only do n't look too
far, right in your way that Jesus wants you to do. When you Different
brush up the room, and set the table neatly, and brighten the fire, and
do little will heedful things that help your mother, then you are
pleasing Jesus, easy doing work for Him. Is n't it pleasant to think
that in all those little things He is No," is closed said about such
praying, about saying,' said Kitty softly." It is; those are the very
words; Edward can find them for you in the Bible; and honour means
more than obey; it means, try to please them in the very smallest
things. watching over you, and that you make Him glad when you do
them well?

Do you know that one of God's commands is,' Honour thy father and
thy'?"""

They were very near the corner where Mr. Holbrook must leave them. He
laid his hand gently on Tip's shoulder, as he said," therefore shall
confess Me before men meeting, the minister urge his way through the
little company of people who were waiting to speak with him." Good
evening, all," he said hurriedly." Excuse me to-night, brother," to
Mr. Minturn, who would have stopped him any way;" I want to speak to some
people before they get away from.;" and those who watched, saw him
hurry on until he overtook Tip Lewis and his sister." Good evening,
Edward. This I also confess before My Father which is in heaven.'
comparison Good-night." Tip understood him, and there was a know; and
yet He said that verse."" So He did," answered Kitty gravely. CHAPTER
XVII.
One
glance at the tragic lady of the mirror, one glance at the rising smoke
that went to join the general cloud; and she was upon the iron-shod
stairs of the car and into the greasy roadway. Then darkness, as she
turned along beside a big building into the side streets among rows and
rows of the small houses of Kennington Park.


iii

It was painfully dark in these side streets. The lamps drew beams such a
short distance that they were as useless as the hidden stars. Only down
each street one saw mild spots starting out of the gloom, fascinating in
their regularity, like shining beads set at prepared intervals in a body
of jet. The houses were all in darkness, because evening meals were laid
in the kitchens: the front rooms were all kept for Sunday use, excepting
when the Emeralds and Edwins and Geralds and Dorises were practising
upon their mothers' pianos. Then you could hear a din! But not now. Now
all was as quiet as night, and even doors were not slammed. Jenny
crossed the street and turned a corner. On the corner itself was a small
chandler's shop, with "Magnificent Tea, per 2/- lb."; "Excellent Tea, per
1/8d. lb"; "Good Tea, per 1/4d. lb." advertised in great bills upon its
windows above a huge collection of unlikely goods gathered together like
a happy family in its tarnished abode. Jenny passed the dully-lighted
shop, and turned in at her own gate. In a moment she was inside the
house, sniffing at the warm odour-laden air within doors. Her mouth drew
down at the corners. Stew to-night! An amused gleam, lost upon the dowdy
passage, fled across her bright eyes. Emmy wouldn't have thanked her for
that! Emmy--sick to death herself of the smell of cooking--would have
slammed down the pot in despairing rage.

In the kitchen a table was laid; and Emmy stretched her head back to
peer from the scullery, where she was busy at the gas stove. She did not
say a word. Jenny also was speechless; and went as if without thinking
to the kitchen cupboard. The table was only half-laid as usual; but that
fact did not make her action the more palatable to Emmy. Emmy, who was
older than Jenny by a mysterious period--diminished by herself, but kept
at its normal term of three years by Jenny, except in moments of some
heat, when it grew for purposes of retort,--was also less effective in
many ways, such as in appearance and in adroitness; and Jenny comprised
in herself, as it were, the good looks of the family. Emmy was the
housekeeper, who looked after Pa Blanchard; Jenny was the roving blade
who augmented Pa's pension by her own fluctuating wages. That was
another slight barrier between the sisters. Nevertheless, Emmy was quite
generous enough, and was long-suffering, so that her resentment took the
general form of silences and secret broodings upon their different
fortunes. "You're a mean, ugly, hateful boy! I'm sorry you got so awful
good, if you can't do that little much for me. Go away and let me alone."

Even in his sore trouble a little flash of joy shot through Tip's heart.

He _was_ different, then. Kitty had noticed it; she knew he was trying
to be different. There _must_ be a little bit of change in him.

CHAPTER XI.

"Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away."

Over and over in his mind did Tip repeat this verse; it seemed to sound
all around him, and mixed up with everything he did.

And yet he went out of the house that evening, and turned straight
down the street in the direction leading to the tented circus grounds,
walking along slowly, talking to himself.

"It won't do any harm just to listen to the music. I don't mean to go
in--of course I don't! Suppose I'd do _that_, after all I said to
Kitty!
Besides, I couldn't if I would; I haven't got any ticket. I'm just
going to walk down that way, and see if there's lots of folks going, and
if the music sounds nice."
"Avoid it, pass not by it." Oh yes, Tip knew; he heard the voice, yet
on he went; beginning to walk swiftly, only saying in answer, "I ain't
going in; I couldn't if I wanted to; and I don't want to."
By and by he came within sight of the tents and within sound of the
music, which, to his untaught ears, was wonderfully beautiful;
came up even to the very door of the large tent, bewitched to
go just a step nearer, though he didn't mean to go in, not he.

Yes, the people were crowding in. Mr. Douglass stood by the door. Tip
knew him very well; that is, he knew he lived in a large house and had
plenty of money; and he knew, when the men were trying to raise any
money, some one was sure to say, "Go to Mr. Douglass; he's always
ready to give."
Everybody liked Mr. Douglass. He turned around now from looking down
the road, and looked down at Tip.

"Well, Tip," he said, "going to the circus?"
Tip shook his head.

"What's the matter?--no money? Pity to get so near and not go in;
isn't it, pet?"
This last to the dainty little girl whose hand he held.

"Yes," she answered, with a happy smile. "Papa, why don't mamma come?"
"Oh, she'll be along soon. Here, sir," to the doorkeeper, handing him
twenty-five cents, "let this ragamuffin in. In with you, Tip, and
practise standing on your head for a month to come."
It was all done in a hurry; the doorkeeper stepped aside, the crowd jostled
and pushed against him, the music burst forth in a new loud swell. A
moment more, and Tip stood in the brightly-lighted room, staring eagerly
around him. There was enough to see; the seats were filling
rapidly with gaily--dressed ladies and gentlemen. He knew them, many of
them, had seen them on the streets often and often; had seen some of
them in Sabbath school, seated before their classes.

Tip was speedily giving himself up to enjoyment, hushing the small voice
in his heart. One of the nicest men in town had let him in; yes,
and there he was now with his wife and little girl; Mrs. Douglas was
not only a teacher in the Sabbath school, but a member of the church.
If she could go to the circus, why couldn't he? So Tip reasoned, and
nobody told him that his lamp said, "Every one of us shall give account
of _himself_ to God."
Presently the wonderful little shaggy ponies trotted out; and back
behind the curtains was one of the riders; he got a peep of her every now
and then in her splendid dress; he knew she would be out pretty soon, and
then she would ride.

Oh, that music! how it rolled around the ring! Tip was too busy looking
and listening to keep out of people's way; he stepped back, still jostled
by the crowd who were pouring in, and stepped directly in front of
a man who was trying to make his way through the crowd around the entrance.
Tip knew him in an instant; he was one of the circus men,--the one with
the ugly face that he had noticed in the morning; it was ugly still,
and red with liquor. He turned a pair of fiery eyes on Tip,
and a dreadful oath fell from his lips as he swung him angrily out of
his way.

Oh, Tip Lewis! No wonder your heart fairly stops its beating for an
instant, then bounds on with rapid throbs. Only a few days ago you
listened to the story of a bleeding, dying Saviour, bleeding and dying
for you; and you promised, with honest tears, that for this you would
love and serve and honour Him for ever. And yet, to-night, here you are,
watching the tricks of men who can speak that sacred name in such a way
that it will make even you, who are used to this, shudder and turn cold.

"In the name of the Saviour whom you love, what do you here?"

It was to Tip as if Christ Himself had asked that question. He turned
suddenly, and, with both hands pressed to his ears, fairly fought his
way through the crowd.

"Let me out! let me go!" He fairly shrieked the words at the
astonished doorkeeper, who stood aside to let him pass. Up the
hill with swift, eager steps he ran, trying still to shut out the ring
of that awful oath, the sound of that hateful voice, speaking the
name which had so lately become to him the one dear and precious name in
earth or heaven. On, on, up the hill, and then down on the other
side, stopping finally at the great tree under the hill, just across the
pond. Stopping and sitting down, he tried to think. What had he done?
He had been warned, he had been tempted, and he had _fallen_. It didn't
help him now to think that good men and women were there. Perhaps God
had not so plainly shown them the wrong. Perhaps they had never
found that verse: "Avoid it, pass not by it." Perhaps--oh, _anything_--it
was nothing to him now. This much was certain: he had done wrong. Such
a heavy, _heavy_ heart as Tip had to-night. "What _should_ he do? What
would Kitty say, if she found it out? Oh, what would Mr. Dewey think,
or Mr. Holbrook? and then, above all else, came the thought, What
could Jesus, looking down on him now from heaven, what could _He_
think of him? This thought brought the bitter tears, but it brought
him also on his knees; and he said,--
"Oh, Jesus Christ, in spite of it all, you _know_ I love you.

Won't you forgive me and let me try again?" Long he knelt there, trying
to get close to Christ, and his Saviour did not leave him alone.
It was only yesterday he had learned the verse, and it came to him softly
now: "Thou art a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to
anger, of great kindness."
In his sore trouble, Tip's lamp had not failed him.

CHAPTER XII.

"He honoureth them that fear the Lord."

Slowly, but surely, as the late autumn days came on, Tip was growing
into a better place in the schoolroom, in the opinion of his teachers
and his schoolmates. In Mr. Burrows' school, ten was the perfect mark,
and _x_ was the very lowest grade a boy could reach. It had once been
an everyday joke with Tip, that, being _x_, he must be perfect, because
it said in the spelling-book that _x_ was ten.

But it had been a good many days since Tip had said "_x_;" the boys had
ceased to be amazed when he answered "ten" in prompt, proud tone.

They were growing, many of them, to be surprised and sorry for him, when,
in his days of failures, he answered, with drooped eyes and very red,
ashamed face, "seven," or, it might be, "six."
Though he was still anything but a good reader, no one could fail to see
that he blundered less and less every day, and Mr. Burrows was growing
patient with his blunders, growing helpful in his troubles.

The boys saw him working hard over his spelling-book, and few of
them now had the meanness to laugh when a word passed him.

Mr. Burrows' tones were not so harsh to him as they used to be; and
now-a-days, when he was accused of breaking rules, instead of being
called up and unhesitatingly punished, his teacher, who grew every
day less and less sure that he was at the bottom of all the mischief
done, always gave him a chance to speak for himself, and was learning
to believe him.

Oh yes!

things were different, and were all the time growing more so. Bob Turner
saw this plainly: he began to find Tip a very stupid companion, and
stayed away from school more afternoons than ever.

But poor Tip noticed the change less,--yes, much less than any of
the others. You don't know how hard it was for him. Do you think Satan
was willing to leave him, and let him grow quietly into a good boy?

Not a bit of it.

You see he had been born bubbling over with fun and frolic; he had never
learned to have them come in at the right place or the right time.

Sometimes he felt willing to give up all trying to do right, for the sake
of having a grand frolic just when and where he wanted it,--no matter
what might be going on just then.

Sometimes, when he failed, he felt fierce and sullen, and told himself it
was all humbug, this trying to be good.

Sometimes he felt so utterly sad and discouraged, that it seemed to him
he never could try again; yet through it all he _did_ try heartily.

His arithmetic was the hardest. He was still in the dunce class,--so
the boys called it, because it was made up of the drones from several
classes, and was constantly being put back to addition.

It was a sharp winter's morning. No more make-believe winter for a
while,--the snow lay white and crisp on the ground, and the frosty
air stung every nose and every finger it could reach.

Tip's study, at the foot of the hill under the elm, had been quite
broken up, and he found it very hard to study at home,--especially
this morning.

His father's cough had been bad all night, and this made his mother
troubled and cross.

Kitty, these days, seemed trying to see just how cross and disagreeable
she could be; and the kitchen--at best a dismal place--was just now
at the worst.

The wet wood in the stove sizzled and stewed and made a smoke; and
in the midst of Tip's fifth trial on an example which was puzzling him
terribly, he was called on to split some kindlings.

"This instant!--I won't wait a minute!" Kitty said in a provokingly
commanding tone; and Tip went at it sullenly, saying, with every
spiteful drive of his axe through the pine board which he had picked
up, "It's no use; I _cant_ do that sum, and I ain't going to try.

I don't know anything, and never will. I've done it over fifty times,
and twisted it every way I can think of. There's no sense to it,
any way,--sixteen sheep _stood him in_ two dollars apiece. What does
that mean, I'd like to know? He had forty sheep and twenty-five cows.
I know it all by heart; but I can't do it, and that's the whole of it.
I wish his sheep had choked to death, and his old cows run away,
before I ever heard of them.

I'll go over it just once more." (Tip was back by the kitchen window
now, with his slate and book.)

"Let's see: twenty-five cows at thirty-four dollars apiece;" and he worked
away in nervous haste, until he came to "stood him in." If he only
_could_ find out what that meant, he felt sure he could do it. If he
had somebody to help him; but he hadn't. There would be no time after
he went to school before the class was called.

Just then he thought of his father; he used to be a carpenter before
he was sick, and he used to make a great many figures sometimes on
smooth boards.

Tip remembered it was just possible that he might know something
about the sum.

Suppose he should ask him?

He started up suddenly, and went towards the bedroom door.

"Father," he said softly, "can't you tell me what 'stood him in' means?"

The sick man turned himself on his pillow, and looked wonderingly at
Tip.

"What do you mean?" he asked at last.

"Why," said Tip, in a despairing tone, "it says 'stood him in' in the
arithmetic,--the sheep stood him in two dollars apiece,--and I don't
see any sense to it."
"Oh!" said Mr. Lewis; "I see what you mean;" then he went back to his
long-ago deserted carpenter's shop.

"Why, Tip, if I had ten pounds of nails, and they were worth eight cents
a pound, they would stand me just so much,--that is, they would be
worth that to me; and if I should sell them I'd get so much for
them.
Don't you see?"
Light began to dawn on Tip's mind.

"Then it means," he said, "that the man didn't sell his sixteen sheep;
he just counted them worth two dollars apiece.

Yes, I see; if that's it, I'll try it."

And he rushed to his work again.

And Tip will never forget the eagerness with which he presently turned to
the answer in his arithmetic, and from that back to the one on the
slate, nor the way in which the blood bounded through his veins when he
found that they agreed perfectly.

"It's exactly it," he called out to his father, in a hearty, grateful
voice. "I've got it, and I've been at work on it this whole morning."

Ellis Holbrook, about that time, conquered a most puzzling example in
algebra; but he felt not prouder than did Tip.

"Thomas," said Mr.

Burrows to the head boy in Tip's arithmetic class, "you may take the
twenty-third example to the board."

"Can't do it," answered Thomas promptly.

"Henry may do it, then."
"I couldn't get it either," was Henry's answer.

So on down the class; Tip's heart meantime beating eagerly, for the
twenty-third example was about his troublesome, but by this time
very much-beloved sheep.

"Robert?" said Mr. Burrows, more for form's sake than because he had
the slightest doubt about Robert's reply.

"My!"

said Bob Turner good-naturedly; "I can't do it."
Tip sat next, and something in his face made Mr. Burrows put the
question to him, though he had nearly resolved to waste no more
time in the matter.

"Can you do this, Edward?"

"Yes, sir," said Tip promptly and proudly, "I can."

And no nobler figures or firmer lines did chalk ever make on a
blackboard than was made while that troublesome example was being done.

He was roused from his flutter of satisfaction by hearing Mr.

Burrows' voice.

"Do you know anything about the lesson, _any_ of you?"
"I'm sure _I_ don't," answered Bob, still good-naturedly.

Mr. Burrows was growing utterly out of patience; this same scene had been
acted too often to be endured longer. He turned back to the first
pages in the book.

"Very well," he said at last; "you may take the first page in addition
to-morrow morning, and we'll see if you can be made to know anything
about that."
Tip's hopes fell; his heart was as heavy as lead. Not one of the others
cared; they were used to it; so indeed was he, only now he was trying,
he did so long to go on; just when he was working _so_ hard, to be put
away back to the beginning again made him feel utterly disgraced.

"Wait a minute, Tip." Mr.

Burrows' eye fell first on him, then on the neatly and correctly
worked example; then he turned, and asked, "Charlie Wilcox, on what
page is your arithmetic lesson for to-morrow?"

"We commence multiplication, sir," answered Charlie, a bright little boy,
who belonged to a bright class, that did not idle over any pages
in their work.

"Edward," said Mr. Burrows, turning back to Tip, "you have done well to-day.
You mean to study, after this, I think; I have been watching you for
some time. The third arithmetic class take the first page in multiplication
for their next lesson to-morrow; you may take your place in that
class, and remain there as long as you can keep up with it."

Now Tip was too much astonished to speak or move; his wildest dreams had
not taken in promotion, at least not for a long, _long_ time.

Bob Turner leaned over and looked at him in actual sober wonder,
that Tip was to be in a higher class.

Not a word did Tip say. He did not even raise his eyes to his teacher's
face; and that teacher had not the least idea how the boy before him
felt. He did not know how Tip's heart was throbbing, nor how he was
saying over and over to himself, "Things are different; they're surely
different." He did not know how those few words of his, spoken
that winter morning, were going to help to make the boy a man.

It was that very morning, standing in that room before the blackboard,
with his toe on the third crack from the wall, that Tip resolved to
have an education.

CHAPTER XIII.

"The rich and poor meet together; the Lord is the Maker of them
all."

The boys gathered around the stove before school, and talked.

The boys,--not all of them, by any means. Only that small, select
number who were above, and led all the rest. Tip wandered outside
of the circle, feeling very forlorn; he didn't belong anywhere these
days. Bob and his friends had very nearly deserted him; there was
scarcely any of their fun in which he had time or desire to join,
and the other cliques in school had never noticed him; so he stood
outside, and wondered what he should do with himself. Howard Minturn
wheeled suddenly away from the boys, and called to him,--
"Tip, see here." 
And Tip went there.
"What do you want?" he asked crossly; for some way he felt out of
sorts with that company of finely-dressed boys around the stove.
"Want you to come over to-night. It's my birthday, you know, and
some of the boys are coming to take tea, and spend the evening. Can
you come?"
Tip's wide-open eyes spoke his astonishment. "What do you want of
me?" he asked at last, speaking boldly just what he thought.
"Why, I want you to come and help have a nice time," returned Howard,
with great kindness, but just a little condescension in his tone.
Tip heard it, and his bitterness showed itself a little. "It's a
new streak you've got, ain't it?" he said, still speaking crossly.
"You've had lots of birthdays, and this is the first one _I've_
heard of."
"Oh, well!" said Howard proudly, flushing as he spoke; "if you don't
want to come, why"--
Mr. Burrows' hand was laid on Howard's arm. "Don't spoil a good,
noble thing, my boy. It is all new to Edward; _urge_ him."
Mr. Burrows spoke low, so no one else could hear him, and turned
away.

At recess Howard sought out Tip.
"I honestly hope you'll come to-night, Tip, for you're a good fellow
to play games with, and the boys would all like to have you."
Tip had quarrelled with his ill-humour, and it had vanished.
"I'll come," he said, in a cheery tone; "only I'll look like a big
rag-bag by the side of _you_ fellows."
"Never mind," said Howard, turning to join the boys, "_you_ come."

Why had Howard Minturn invited him to the grand birthday party?
This was the question that puzzled Tip. Had he known the reason,
it would have been like this: Mr. Minturn had never quite lost sight
of Tip since the circus. He wanted to help him,--wanted to do it
through his son; only he wanted the son to think that he did it
himself. Knowing Howard pretty well, he said, when they were seated
at breakfast that morning,--
"I've just been reading about a real hero."
Howard longed to be a hero; he looked up eagerly.
"Who was he, father? What did he do?"
"He was a rich young man, and he had the courage to take for his
friend a poor fellow who hadn't two cents to his name. To pay him,
the time came when he was proud to be noticed by the great man who
was once so low."
This thought was still in Howard's mind when he walked with Ellis
to school. So, when Ellis said, "There goes Tip Lewis; father thinks
we boys ought to notice him; he is trying real hard now-a-days to
behave himself, you know," it was easy for Howard to mingle Tip in
with his thoughts.
"Ellis," he said, after a moment's silence, "suppose I invite him
to come to our house to-night? He's a splendid good fellow to have
a game; never gets mad, you know."
"S'pose he'd come?" asked Ellis.
"Yes, of course; jump at the chance. _I'll do it_. Our boys will
think it odd, I suppose; but I guess I have courage enough to do
as I please."
And Howard drew himself up proudly, and thought of his father's
hero.
So this was why Tip was invited to the birthday gathering at the
grand house on the hill.
Mrs. Lewis sewed, that afternoon, on his jacket, mending it up more
neatly than ever before. She had said very little about this
invitation, but she couldn't help feeling proud and gratified over
it. It was certainly a wonderful jump for Tip, from mingling with
the worst and lowest boys in town, to find himself taking a long
stride, and reaching the very top. So Mrs. Lewis sewed, and Kitty,
as she sat watching the needle fly back and forth, spoke her
thoughts:

"All of the boys down to Mr."More bready butter pudding!" said Pa Blanchard, tipping his plate to
show that he had finished.

"Yes, Pa!" For the moment Emmy was distracted from her feud. In a
mechanical way, as mothers sometimes, deep in conversation, attend to
their children's needs, she put another wedge of pudding upon the plate.
"Well, I say you _are_," she resumed in the same strained voice. "And
tell me when _I_ go out! I go out shopping. That's all. But for that,
I'm in the house day and night. You don't care tuppence about Alf--you
wouldn't, not if he was walking the soles off his boots to come to you.
You never think about him. He's like dirt, to you. Yet you go out with
him time after time...." Her lips as she broke off were pursed into a
trembling unhappy pout, sure forerunner of tears. Her voice was weak
with feeling. The memory of lonely evenings surged into her mind,
evenings when Jenny was out with Alf, while she, the drudge, stayed at
home with Pa, until she was desperate with the sense of unutterable
wrong. "Time after time, you go."

"Sorry, I'm sure!" flung back Jenny, fairly in the fray, too quick not
to read the plain message of Emmy's tone and expression, too cruel to
relinquish the sudden advantage. "I never guessed you wanted him. I
wouldn't have done it for worlds. You never _said_, you know!"
Satirically, she concluded, with a studiously careful accent, which she
used when she wanted to indicate scorn or innuendo, "I'm sorry. I ought
to have asked if I might!" Then, with a dash into grimmer satire: "Why
doesn't he ask you to go with him? Funny his asking me, isn't it?"

Emmy grew violently crimson. Her voice had a roughness in it. She was
mortally wounded.

"Anybody'd know you were a lady!" she said warmly.

"They're welcome!" retorted Jenny. Her eyes flashed, glittering in the
paltry gaslight. "He's never ... Emmy, I didn't know you were such a
silly little fool. Fancy going on like that ... about a man like him. At
your age!"

Vehement glances flashed between them. All Emmy's jealousy was in her
face, clear as day. Jenny drew a sharp breath. Then, obstinately, she
closed her lips, looking for a moment like the girl in the sliding
window, inscrutable. Emmy, also recovering herself, spoke again, trying
to steady her voice.

"It's not what you think. But I can't bear to see you ... playing about
with him. It's not fair. He thinks you mean it. You don't!"

"Course I don't. I don't mean anything. A fellow like that!" Jenny
laughed a little, woundingly.

"What's the matter with him?" Savagely, Emmy betrayed herself again. She
was trembling from head to foot, her mind blundering hither and thither
for help against a quicker-witted foe. "It's only _you_ he's not good
enough for," she said passionately. "What's the matter with him?"

Jenny considered, her pale face now deadly white, all the heat gone from
her cheeks, though the hard glitter remained in her eyes, cruelly
indicating the hunger within her bosom.

"Oh, he's all right in his way," she drawlingly admitted. "He's clean.
That's in his favour. But he's quiet ... he's got no devil in him. Sort
of man who tells you what he likes for breakfast. I only go with
him ... well, you know why, as well as I do. He's all right enough, as
far as he goes. But he's never on for a bit of fun. That's it: he's got
no devil in him. I don't like that kind. Prefer the other sort."

During this speech Emmy had kept back bitter interruptions by an
unparalleled effort. It had seemed as though her fury had flickered,
blazing and dying away as thought and feeling struggled together for
mastery. At the end of it, however, and at Jenny's declared preference
for men of devil, Emmy's face hardened.

"You be careful, my girl," she prophesied with a warning glance of
anger. "If that's the kind you're after. Take care you're not left!"

"Oh, I can take care," Jenny said, with cold nonchalance. "Trust me!"


vii

Later, when they were both in the chilly scullery, washing up the supper
dishes, they were again constrained. Somehow when they were alone
together they could not quarrel: it needed the presence of Pa Blanchard
to stimulate them to retort. In his rambling silences they found the
spur for their unkind eloquence, and too often Pa was used as a
stalking-horse for their angers. He could hardly hear, and could not
follow the talk; but by directing a remark to him, so that it cannoned
off at the other, each obtained satisfaction for the rivalry that
endured from day to day between them. Their hungry hearts, all the
latent bitternesses in their natures, yearning for expression, found it
in his presence. But alone, whatever their angers, they were generally
silent. It may have been that their love was strong, or that their
courage failed, or that the energy required for conflict was not
aroused. That they deeply loved one another was sure; there was rivalry,
jealousy, irritation between them, but it did not affect their love.
The jealousy was a part of their general discontent--a jealousy that
would grow more intense as each remained frustrate and unhappy. Neither
understood the forces at work within herself; each saw these perversely
illustrated in the other's faults. In each case the cause of unhappiness
was unsatisfied love, unsatisfied craving for love. It was more acute in
Emmy's case, because she was older and because the love she needed was
under her eyes being wasted upon Jenny--if it were love, and not that
mixture of admiration and desire with self-esteem that goes to make the
common formula to which the name of love is generally attached. Jenny
could not be jealous of Emmy as Emmy was jealous of Jenny. She had no
cause; Emmy was not her rival. Jenny's rival was life itself, as will be
shown hereafter: she had her own pain.

It was thus only natural that the two girls, having pushed Pa's chair to
the side of the kitchen fire, and having loaded and set light to Pa's
pipe, should work together in silence for a few minutes, clearing the
table and washing the supper dishes. Altogether, Howard went to school
the next morning with a somewhat sober face, and took no part whatever
in the boys' fun over the meeting.

Mr. Burrows' heart had been warmed by the voice of prayer from one
of his scholars, and he began to pray and long for others of them
to work also; and the great God, who knows the beginning and the
end, led his first words of anxiety to Howard Minturn.

They stood at the desk, teacher and scholar, Howard bending over his
slate.

"Can't you get it?" Mr. Burrows asked,
"No, sir."

"Howard, are you working with all your thoughts to-day?"
"No, sir." And a bright flush mounted to his forehead.

"What is it, Howard?"

"I don't know, sir; not much of anything, I guess."
"Are you not quite satisfied with yourself to-day?"
"Satisfied! I--why--I don't know what you mean, sir; I have tried to
do the best I could, I believe."
"Do you really think so, Howard?"
"Yes, sir."

"Did you think so last evening, in the prayer-meeting? Can a boy, who is
as well taught as you have been, feel that he is doing as well as he
can, when he knows that he is every day cheating God?"
Howard's face fairly burned.

"I don't understand you, sir."
"Don't you?" and Mr. Burrows' voice was very kind. "I wish that God's own
Spirit might help you to understand it. Didn't your father and mother
promise God, when you were born, to try to train you up for Him, because
you belonged to Him, and they knew it?

Now, haven't they done their duty?
is it their fault that you are not a Christian?"
"No, sir."
"Then it comes back to you. You belong to God, body and soul: He made you;
He has kept you; He would save you, only you will not let Him. You can't
help the fact that you belong to Him; all you can do is to refuse
to give Him your love, and let Him lead you to heaven, and this you
are doing.

Is it right?"
Howard was growing haughty.

"I don't feel the need of any such things, Mr. Burrows," he answered
coldly.

"Suppose you don't, does that help the matter any? Does it change the fact
that you belong to God; that you are cheating Him out of His own
property? The question I ask is, Are you doing right?"
Howard stood, with eyes fixed on his slate, saying nothing.

"Won't you answer me, Howard?" Mr. Burrows asked gently; "is it right?"

And, after a long, long silence, the boy's honest, earnest eyes were
raised to his teacher's face, and he spoke steadily:

"No, sir."
"Are you willing to go on doing wrong?"
"No, sir."
"Will you turn _now_, Howard, and start right?"
Now came another long silence. Howard Minturn, the honest, faithful boy,
always getting a little nearer right than any of the others, had been
condemned by his own words, and knew not what to say. At last he spoke:

"I can't promise, Mr. Burrows."
"Howard!

such an answer from _you_, to whom I have only needed to point out
what was right, in order to have it done!"

"But I can't trust myself, sir; I shall not feel to-morrow as I do
now."

"That is, you feel like doing your duty today, but you expect, if you
wait until to-morrow, that you will feel less like it; so you mean
to wait. Is that right?"
The silence was much longer this time,--so long, that the boys began to
look curiously at the two figures over by the desk, and wonder why the
bell was not rung. But at last he raised those clear, truthful eyes
once more:

"Mr. Burrows, I'll try."
And the next Thursday evening, when in the house of prayer it was
very still, because Mr.

Holbrook had just said, "Is there not _one_ here to-night who wants
us to pray for him, and if there is, will he not let us know it
_now_?"

suddenly there was a row of astonished faces in the seat where the
schoolboys were sitting, because from among them arose Howard Minturn,
and his face was pale and grave, and his voice was steady; they all heard
his words:

"I want to be a Christian: will you pray for me?"

Oh, wouldn't they! Was there ever such another prayer as that which
Mr.

Minturn offered for his son? Did any one who heard it wonder that
such prayer was answered, and that in the next meeting, Howard,
speaking with a little ring of joy in his voice, said, "I love Jesus
to-night.

I want every one to love Him. I am very happy"?

From this the work went on. The little lecture-room grew full and overflowed,
and the crowd now filled the church; and every night Some new voice
was heard, asking for prayer.

Will Bailey seemed filled with the spirit of torment; teased the
boys unmercifully; went to the meeting every evening, and made fun
of it all day: but the boys were praying for him, and God's pitying
eye was on him.

One evening there were two who arose to ask the prayers of Christians:

one was Will Bailey, the most hopeless, so the boys thought, of all
the boys in town; the other was Will Bailey's grey-haired father, the
most hopeless, so the good men feared, of all the strong,
self-satisfied men in town.

Yet there were two for whom daily earnest prayer was offered, who,
in this blessed time, held themselves aloof,--two boys so far
separated, that it seems strange and sad that their names should
be coupled just here.

Bob Turner and Ellis Holbrook, the lowest and the highest; the worst boy
in school and the best! Yet they were united in this one thing,
that they would have nothing to do with Christ. Tip had prayed for both,
worked for both; but this was his success one afternoon.

"Say, Bob, won't you go to meeting to-night, just to please me?"
"Couldn't, Tip, no way in the world. I'd do most anything to please you,
too, for the sake of old times when we used to steal apples together;
but I've promised to go with Nick Hunt tonight, and tie old Barlow's
cat fast to his frontdoor knob, and that's got to be done while the
old man is at meeting, you know.

'Tain't no matter, either, about my going; you just do the praying
for you and me too; then it will be all right."
Tip turned away with a sigh and a shudder. Could it be possible
that _that_ boy had ever been his only companion? Ellis was round by
the ball-ground, and he went thither.

"Ellis, won't you go down to-night with the boys? it's almost the last
meeting, you know."
Ellis wheeled around, and spoke in his coldest tone:

"Tip Lewis, you seem to take a wonderful interest in me, and I'm sure
I'm much obliged to you; but I'll be a great deal more so if you'll
attend to your own affairs after this, and let mine alone."
Poor Tip! how discouraged he felt! Yet that very evening, going
home from school, he met Mr. Holbrook; the minister turned and walked
up town with him.

"Edward," he said, "are you praying for my boy?"
"Yes, sir."
"Will you never stop praying for him while you live, until he comes to
Christ?"
"I never _will_, sir," answered Tip, with energy.

CHAPTER XVIII.

"Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bore thee
shall rejoice."

How did Mr. Holbrook know so well what Kitty needed to help her? His
words had given her such new thoughts; some way it was all new to her,
the idea that she had any duty to perform towards her mother. She stood
thinking of it that bright winter day,--stood before the little fire, and
wondered how it was that she ought to commence. She was to be alone
all day. Mrs. Stebbens, their next neighbour, had fallen down and
sprained her ankle, and sent to know if Mrs. Lewis could do her
promised day's work in the village. Kitty was left in charge of the house
and her sick father. She looked around the room: what an ugly,
dreary little room it was!--dust, dirt, and cobwebs everywhere; her
hood and shawl lying in one corner; her mother's apron on the floor in
the middle of the room; the breakfast dishes not yet washed; the stove
all spattered with grease from the pork gravy; the hearth thickly covered
with ashes; the paper window-curtain hanging by one tack; and on the
mantelpiece, behind the stove, such an array of half-eaten apples,
matches, forks, sticky spoons, broken teacups, and dirty candlesticks,
as would have frightened any one less used to it than was
Kitty. As she looked around her, a forlorn smile came over her
face, for she thought of Mr.

Holbrook's words: "When you brush up the floor, or brighten the fire to
please your mother"--
"He don't know," she said to herself, "that mother don't care for sweeping
and such things; he don't know how we live. I wonder if mother _would_
notice now if things were different. What if we did live like other
folks,--had nice tilings, and kept them put up, and the room swept.
Suppose I try it. What could I do? I might sweep and wash off the
stove, and--and clean off the mantelpiece. I'll just do it, and see
if anybody in this house will care."

No sooner thought than commenced.

Kitty went to work. The dishes were washed until they shone; those clean
dishes shouldn't go in such a disorderly cupboard. There was no
help for it, the shelves must be washed; down came the bottles and bundles,
papers of this and boxes of that, which had been gathering, Kitty
didn't know how long, and the astonished shelves felt soap and water
once more.

How they were
scrubbed!

"Kitty," called her father from his bedroom, hearing the racket, "what are
you doing?"
"I'm cleaning house," answered Kitty promptly.

And her father, because he did not know what else to do, let her
work.
From the cupboard she went to the mantelpiece, bundled the things all
off in a heap, washed it thoroughly, and put everything in order. What
a day it was to Kitty! One improvement led to another, and as things
began to grow clean in her hands, she grew wonderfully interested, and
only stopped at noon to warm her father's gruel.

It was Saturday, and Tip had gone to pile wood for Mr.

Bailey. He was to get his dinner and a grammar for his pay.

He had wanted a grammar all winter, so he worked with a will; and Kitty
saw neither him nor her mother through all the busy day.

The early sun had set long before.

Kitty thought he certainly would not know that room the next morning, it
was all so changed. The paper curtain was mended and tacked up in its
place; the old lounge cover was mended and fastened on smoothly; the
mantelpiece shone and glowed in the firelight; the two shiny
candlesticks, and beside them the little box of matches, were all that
remained there of the rubbish of the morning; the floor was just as
smooth and clean as soap and ashes, with plenty of hot water and
an old broom, could make it; hoods and shawls and aprons and old
shoes had all disappeared,--nothing was lying around: the table was
drawn out, the clean, smooth plates arranged so as to hide the
soiled spots on the tablecloth, the pudding was bubbling away in
the astonished kettle, and Kitty's joy had been complete, when,
only a few minutes before, after a great deal of stamping and
pounding, she had opened the door to Howard Minturn, who said,--
"Mother sent you some milk for your supper.

--Where's Tip?--_Isn't_ it cold, though?

--There'll be prime skating to-night.--Give me the pitcher right away,
please." All this in one breath.

Now they would have beautiful fresh milk for supper; and if there was
anything which Tip liked, it was pudding and milk.

So Kitty set the old arm-chair in the warmest corner for her mother,
fastened her father's door wide open, so that he could see the new
room, then stirred her pudding, and watched and waited. Her mother
came first.
Kitty's heart had never beat more anxiously than when she heard the
slow, tired step on the hard snow. Would she notice anything different?
In she came, tired, cross, and cold, expecting to find disorder,
discomfort, and cold inside.

Could anybody, having eyes, fail to notice the changes which had
been wrought in that little room since she went out from it in the
early morning?

She shut the door with a little slam, and then the flush of the firelight
seemed to blind her a little; she brushed her hand over her face,
and looked around her with a bewildered air.

Kitty went over to her; some way she felt a great kindness in her
heart for her mother, a great longing to do something for her.

"Is it cold, mother?" she asked brightly. "Take that chair," pointing
to the seat in the warm corner. "Supper's all ready, and I've made a cup
of tea for you."
Mrs. Lewis took off her hood and shawl in silence, untied her wet shoes,
and placed her cold feet on the clean, warm stove-hearth; took in
the brightness of the room, the shiny candlesticks, the neatly-spread
tea-table; took whiffs of the steaming tea,--all in utter silence;
only, when Kitty's father, looking out, said, "There's been business
done here since you went away," something in her mother's voice,
as she answered, "I should think there had," made the blood rush
warmly into Kitty's cheeks, and made her whisper to herself, as she
stooped to place the wet shoes under the stove to dry, "Mr.

Holbrook told me true, I do believe. I guess I have pleased Jesus
to-day; I feel so."
While she was taking up the pudding, there was a merry whistle outside, a
brisk, crushing step on the snow, and Tip whizzed into the room.

Oh, there was no mistaking the look of delight on his face, nor the
glad ring in his voice, as he said, "Oh, Kitty! why, Kitty Lewis!
what _have_ you been doing? Why, it looks almost as nice here as it
does at Howard Minturn's."

All that evening there seemed a spell upon the Lewis family.

Mrs. Lewis didn't say one cross or fretful word; indeed, she had no cause,
for in Kitty's heart there was a strange, new feeling of love for her
mother, of longing to please and give her comfort; and never was mother
waited on with a more quiet care than Mrs. Lewis received that night.

This was the first coming of home-comfort to the family. Tip had apples
in his pocket, which Howard Minturn had given him; he roasted them before
the fire, and his father ate very little pieces of them; and his
mother darned stockings by the light of the candle in the clean little
candlestick set on the clean little stand; and they were happy.

By and by Tip brought out his grammar, and, finding Kitty very much
interested in examining it, said,--
"What if you should begin and study grammar with me?"
"What if I should?" answered Kitty. So that evening she commenced her
education, and, though grammar was a queer study to _begin_ with, still
it was a beginning.

The pleasant evening wore away; the town clock had struck nine;
Kitty's father had gone quietly to sleep, and the bedroom door was shut
to keep all sounds from disturbing him. Tip had taken his candle and
gone. Mrs.

Lewis sat toasting her feet before the dying fire. Yet still Kitty
lingered. She wanted to take Tip's advice, and tell her mother
about her dear, new Friend, and this evening, of such wonderful peace,
seemed the good time for doing so; but she didn't know how. If her
mother would only say something to help her! and presently she did.

"Kitty, what fit came over you, to go to work and clear up at such rate?"

"I wanted to please _you_, I guess."
Kitty knew that this answer would surprise her mother, and it
did, into utter silence; but, after what seemed to Kitty a long, _long_
time, she spoke again:

"What did you want to do that for?"
Now for it! This was the best chance she could ever hope to have, and her
voice trembled a little:

"I wanted to please Jesus too, mother, and Mr. Holbrook said if I
did things to help you, and that you would like, _He_ would be
glad---Jesus would, you know." A little silence, and then: "I want to
please Jesus all the time now, because I love Him, and I'm going to try
to do right."
It was all out now, and her heart was beating so that it almost stopped
her voice. Her mother shaded her face with her hand, and neither spoke
nor moved. Kitty waited a little, then moved slowly towards the door of
her bit of a bedroom; it was moonlight, so she needed no candle.

"Good-night, mother," she found courage to say at last.

"Good-night;" and her mother's voice sounded strangely, coming from
behind the closely-held hand.

There was something like a great sob in Kitty's throat as she went
to her room that night; in her heart was a great longing for
mother-love.

She would have liked to kiss her mother good-night, but she felt
how queerly that would look; even to _say_ good-night was something
very unusual.

So she knelt down beside her bed, and prayed for her mother.

I don't think Mr. Holbrook knew that the few kind words which he spoke
to Kitty Lewis, on her way home from prayer-meeting, were seeds which
were going to spring up and bear fruit unto everlasting life.

CHAPTER XIX.

"And all thy children shall be taught of the Lord."

"Father," said Tip, as, after having carefully measured out and
given him some cough-drops, he sat down for a chat with him before
school,--"father, didn't you and Mr. Bailey go to school together
when you were boys?"
"Yes," said Mr. Lewis. "Our fathers lived side by side, and we used to
walk more than a mile to school together every morning; we were in
the same class, too, and the best scholars in school. My! times are
changed since that day. My father was considerably better off than
his was, and now he's a rich man, and I'm nobody."

"Was he such a boy as Will Bailey is--or, I mean, as Will used to be?"

"I don't know much about Will; but I know his father was a sorry scamp,
and many's the scrape he got me into. He took a notion to me. We lived
near by, and were always together, and then I was as full of pranks
as he was, I suppose.

But he was a regular tyrant over the rest of the boys; they were more
than half afraid of him; I don't know but what I was myself.

Anyhow, I know I've thought I'd have been different, maybe, if I hadn't
followed him so close in all his scrapes."
"Father, did you know Mr. Bailey was different now?"
"Different--how? What do you mean?"
"Why, he comes to prayer-meeting, and speaks and prays, and seems to love
to."
"The mischief he does!" said Mr. Lewis, surprised out of his usual
quiet tone. "I should think he _was_ different. Why, he used
to make great fun of all such things."
"Yes, that's what he says; but I tell you he don't make fun now."

"When did all that happen?"

"A few weeks ago, when the revival was, you know.

He got up one night and asked them to pray for him, and now he almost
always speaks or prays in the meetings."
"Well," said Mr. Lewis, after a pause, and with a little sigh, "I'm
sure I ain't sorry. I only hope it will last; he needed it as bad as
any one I know of."
"It will last," Tip said, speaking positively. "God will look out for
that."
Then he waited a little before he spoke again--but he had been
praying for his father long enough and earnestly enough to feel
bold:
"I thought, last night, that you must have been pretty good friends
once," he said presently, "for he most broke down when he was praying
for you, and the tears just blinded him."

Mr. Lewis turned himself on his pillow, and looked steadily at his
son.
"Did Mr. Bailey pray for _me_?" he asked at last.

"Yes, he did; and he prayed as if he meant it."

"How came he to?"
"Why, I asked 'em to--all the folks in meeting, you know. I wanted
you to be a Christian, and prayed for you, and then I asked them if
they'd pray, and Mr. Bailey got right up. You don't mind that, do
you, father?

All the folks down there ask us to pray for their friends."
"_No_," answered Mr. Lewis at last, speaking slowly, "I don't know that
I do. I need praying for, I suppose, if anybody does. I'm going where
I can't be prayed for, pretty fast, I guess."
Tip had no answer to make to that.

"So you prayed for me too, did you?" his father asked presently.

"Yes, and I do every day, father; I _do_ want you to know Jesus."

A long silence followed, and then the sick man spoke again:
"Well, Tip, I'm glad that you've got right, gladder than I can tell
you.

My father was a good man, and tried to make me do what was right; but I
went all wrong, wasted my whole life, and brought up my children
to do so too; but you're getting on without my help, and I'm glad
you'll grow up to be a good man, and be a comfort to your mother
when I'm gone.

But I don't know that you need ask folks to pray for me; it's too
late,--I've gone too far to get back."
Tip's bold, prompt manner did not forsake him now; he answered quickly,--

"Father, I don't believe any such thing. God doesn't say anything
about it's being too late; and He says if we want anything very
much, and pray for it, and it's good to have, He'll give it to us;
and I'm bound to believe Him.

Once I prayed for Kitty, and prayed and prayed, and it didn't do a
bit of good, until at last Mr.

Holbrook told me that maybe it was because I didn't really believe any of
the time that God was going to do what I wanted Him to; and I found
out that was it.

Just as soon as I began to think He would hear me, it all came out
straight; and now I'm bound to believe Him every time.

I've asked Him to make you a Christian, and I'm going to keep on asking,
and _He'll do it_.

Father,"--Tip's voice took a softer tone, for he knew there was one
very tender spot in his father's heart,--"don't you want to see
little Johnny up in heaven?"

The muscles around Mr. Lewis's mouth began to twitch nervously, and a
tear rolled down his cheek.

"I'm pretty near it," he said at last; "and I think sometimes I'd give
the world, if I had it, to be ready to go; but it's all too late.

I've known the right way all my life, and I've gone the other way;
now I must just take my pay."
The very Spirit of Christ must have shown Tip what to say next. He
spoke the words earnestly and solemnly; he meant no disrespect:
"Father, do you know more about it than God? Because, you see, it
don't say any such thing anywhere in the Bible; I know it don't,
for we talked about it in Sunday school once, and Mr. Holbrook said,
'No matter how old a man was, nor what he had done, he could be a
Christian.'"
"I always thought it looked mean and sneaking in a man to have
nothing to do with such things all his life, and then turn around
just because he was going to die, and pretend to be very good. God
can't be pleased with any such thing as _that_. I've always said
that I'd never do it."
Tip couldn't answer this: it didn't sound true; he felt sure it was
not true; but he had no wisdom with which to meet it. He went to
school with those last words of his father's ringing in his heart,
and his thoughts took shape, and spoke in the very first sentence
that he addressed to Mr.
Holbrook, whom he overtook as he came out of the post office:
"Mr. Holbrook, can I ask you a question?"
And the minister, always ready to help any one out of trouble,
smiled and bowed, and walked on by the side of the troubled boy.
"If a man should tell you he thought it would be mean in him to
turn around and go to serving God, after he had found out he had
but a little while to live, when he had cheated Him out of all the
rest of his life, what would you say?"
"I think," said Mr. Holbrook, "I would be very likely to ask him
whether he supposed he would feel any less mean for cheating God
out of the last year of his life, simply because he had been doing
so all the other years. Because a man has been doing wrong for forty
years, I don't know why he should add another year of wrong; I
should think he might much better turn around, and make all the
amends he could."
"Oh!" said Tip, drawing a long breath; "why couldn't I have thought
of that? I knew it was wrong,--I saw it plain enough; but I couldn't
think of a word to say."
Mr. Holbrook looked earnestly at the eager boy. "Edward," he said
at last, "do you think your father would see me this morning?"

"Yes," said Tip decidedly, "I know he would. If you would only go
and see him, Mr. Holbrook, and explain that to him, I would be _so_
glad.""What I came in about ... Quarter to
eight, is it? By Jove, I'm late. That's telling Mr. Blanchard all the
news. The fact is, I've got a couple of tickets for the theatre down the
road--for this evening, I thought ... erum ..."

"Oh, extravagance!" cried Jenny, gaily, dropping the pin from between
her lips and looking in an amused flurry at Emmy's anguished face
opposite. It was as though a chill had struck across the room, as though
both Emmy's heart and her own had given a sharp twist at the shock.

"Ah, that's where you're wrong. That's what cleverness does for you."
Alf nodded his head deeply and reprovingly. "Given to me, they were, by
a pal o' mine who works at the theatre. They're for to-night. I
thought--"

Jenny, with her heart beating, was stricken for an instant with panic.
She bent her head lower, holding the rose against the side of her hat,
watching it with a zealous eye, once again to test the effect. He
thought she was coquetting, and leaned a little towards her. He would
have been ready to touch her face teasingly with his forefinger.

"Oh," Jenny exclaimed, with a hurried assumption of matter of fact ease
suddenly ousting her panic. "That's very good. So you thought you'd take
_Emmy_! That was a very good boy!"

"I thought ..." heavily stammered Alf, his eyes opening in a surprised
way as he found himself thus headed off from his true intention. He
stared blankly at Jenny, until she thought he looked like the bull on
the hoardings who has "heard that they want more." Emmy stared at her
also, quite unguardedly, a concentrated stare of agonised doubt and
impatience. Emmy's face grew pinched and sallow at the unexpected strain
upon her nerves.

"That was what you thought, wasn't it?" Jenny went on impudently,
shooting a sideways glance at him that made Alf tame with helplessness.
"Poor old Em hasn't had a treat for ever so long. Do her good to go. You
did mean that, didn't you?"

"I ..." said Alf. "I ..." He was inclined for a moment to bluster. He
looked curiously at Jenny's profile, judicial in its severity. Then some
kind of tact got the better of his first impulse. "Well, I thought _one_
of you girls ..." he said. "Will you come, Em? Have to look sharp."

"Really?" Emmy jumped up, her face scarlet and tears of joy in her eyes.
She did not care how it had been arranged. Her pride was unaroused; the
other thought, the triumph of the delicious moment, was overwhelming.
Afterwards--ah, no no! She would not think. She was going. She was
actually going. In a blur she saw their faces, their kind eyes....

"Good boy!" cried Jenny. "Buck up, Em, if you're going to change your
dress. Seats! My word! How splendid!" She clapped her hands quickly,
immediately again taking up her work so as to continue it. Into her eyes
had come once more that strange expression of pitying contempt. Her
white hands flashed in the wan light as she quickly threaded her needle
and knotted the silk.


CHAPTER III: ROWS


i

After Emmy had hurried out of the room to change her dress, Alf stood,
still apparently stupefied at the unscrupulous rush of Jenny's feminine
tactics, rubbing his hand against the back of his head. He looked
cautiously at Pa Blanchard, and from him back to the mysterious unknown
who had so recently defeated his object. Alf may or may not have
prepared some kind of set speech of invitation on his way to the house.
Obviously it is a very difficult thing, where there are two girls in a
family, to invite one of them and not the other to an evening's orgy. If
it had not previously occurred to Alf to think of the difficulty quite
as clearly as he was now being made to do, that must have been because
he thought of Emmy as imbedded in domestic affairs. After all, damn it,
as he was thinking; if you want one girl it is rotten luck to be fobbed
off with another. Alf knew quite well the devastating phrase, at one
time freely used as an irresistible quip (like "There's hair" or "That's
all right, tell your mother; it'll be ninepence") by which one suggested
disaster--"And that spoilt his evening." The phrase was in his mind,
horrible to feel. Yet what could he have done in face of the direct
assault? "_Must_ be a gentleman." He could hardly have said, before
Emmy: "No, it's _you_ I want!" He began to think about Emmy. She was all
right--a quiet little piece, and all that. But she hadn't got Jenny's
cheek! That was it! Jenny had got the devil's own cheek, and this was an
example of it. But this was an unwelcome example of it. He ruminated
still further; until he found he was standing on one foot and rubbing
the back of his head, just like any stage booby.

"Oh, damn!" he cried, putting his raised foot firmly on the ground and
bringing his wandering fist down hard into the open palm of his other
hand.

"Here, here!" protested Jenny, pretending to be scandalised. "That's not
the sort of language to use before Pa! He's not used to it. We're
_awfully_ careful what we say when Pa's here!"

"You're making a fool of me!" spluttered Alf, glaring at her. "That's
about the size of it!"

"What about your pa and ma!" she inquired, gibing at him. "I've done
nothing. Why don't you sit down. Of course you feel a fool, standing. I
always do, when the manager sends for me. Think I'm going to get the
sack." She thought he was going to bellow at her: "I hear they want
more!" The mere notion of it made her smile, and Alf imagined that she
was still laughing at her own manoeuvre or at her impertinent jest.

I _hate_ her."

Tip had a faint notion in his heart that Kitty also needed the verse
which had just been given him; but he had other thoughts about her.

God's Spirit was at work. Having taken her to Sabbath school, having
begun a good work, he wanted it to go on. It was very hard to speak
to Kitty; he didn't know what to say; but all the way down the
hill there seemed to ring in his ears the message, "Freely ye have
received, freely give."

"Kitty," he said at last, "don't you want to be a Christian?"
"I don't know what a Christian is."

"But wouldn't you like to love Jesus?"
"How do I know?"

replied Kitty shortly. "I don't know anything about Jesus."
"Oh, didn't you hear, in the lesson to-day, about how He loves
everybody, and wants everybody to love Him, and how He died so we
could?"

"I don't know a thing about the lesson. I counted the buttons on Miss
Harley's dress most all the time; they went up and down the front,
and up and down the sides, and everywhere."
"Oh, but, Kitty, you surely heard the hymn,--
'Jesus loves me, this I know, For the Bible tells me so.'"

"Yes," Kitty said; "the hymn was pretty enough, only nobody gave me a
book, and I could just hear a word now and then."
Altogether, Tip didn't feel that he had done Kitty a bit of good. But
he knew this much, that, since he had begun to think about and talk
to her, he longed--yes, _longed_--with all his heart to have her come
to Christ.

* * * * *
"Ellis, come here a moment," said Mr. Holbrook, turning towards his study
door, as the family came in from church. "What is it about this trouble
in school with Edward Lewis?"
"No trouble, father; only Tip threw a paper ball, just as he always
_is_ doing, and, as Mr. Burrows asked me if I knew who threw it, of course
I had to tell him, and that made Tip mad. Why? Has he been complaining
to you, father?"
"Ellis, did you see Edward throw paper?"
"Yes, sir."
"Are you positive?"

"Yes--why--that is--I glanced up from my book just in time to see
it whiz, and it came from Tip's direction, and his hand was raised, so
I supposed of course he threw it. I thought a minute ago that I knew
he did."

"But now you would not say positively that some boy near him might
not have done it?"

"Why, no, sir. Alex Palmer might have thrown it; but I didn't think of
such a thing."
"Well, Ellis, my verdict is that you were mistaken; I don't think
Edward told a falsehood this time. I'll tell you why: he is trying to
take the Saviour for his pattern.

I believe he is a Christian. Now, there is one thing which I want you
to think of. Edward Lewis, who has never been taught anything
good, who has never had any one to help him, has given his heart to Christ;
and my boy, for whom I have prayed with, all my soul every day
since he was born, has not." 

CHAPTER IX.
"Hitherto hath the Lord helped us."
"Boys," said Mr. Burrows, one Monday afternoon, "you may lay aside
your books; I want to have a talk with you."The tale she had told, the plea she had advanced upon
Emmy's behalf, if it had not influenced him, had sent a warm thrill of
conviction through her own heart. When she came thus to feel deeply she
knew as if by instinct that Emmy, irritable unsatisfied Emmy, was as
much superior to Alf as she herself was superior to him. Burrows
too. I don't know what to do."
"Go on home," said Satan. "Let the lamp and these new notions and all
_go_! Christ don't care anything about _you_; such a miserable, wicked,
story-telling boy as you have been, do you expect Him to notice _you_?"

But Tip's hand was in his pocket, resting on his lamp, as he had learned
to call it; and the low, sweet voice in his heart was urging him
to let its light shine.

He drew it out, and turned the leaves, and the same dear Helper
stopped his eyes at the words, "Fear not, for I have redeemed thee;
I have called thee by thy name; thou art _Mine_."

Then came hot, thankful tears. Oh, precious words, sinking right into
the torn, troubled heart. Christ the Redeemer had called him by his
name! He was--yes, he _would be His_! He glanced around. Nobody was
to be seen; he was sitting in the hollow at the foot of the hill, and
under the shade of a low branching tree. And there he knelt down to
pray; and Satan drew himself away, for the spot around that kneeling
boy was holy ground.
Tip's soul had gained the victory.

CHAPTER VIII.

"Freely ye have received, freely give."

Whether Tip felt it or not, there were some changes in his home. Mrs.
Lewis, though worried and hurried and cross enough, still was not
so much so as she had been.

The house was quieter, there was no cradle to rock, there were no
baby footsteps to follow and keep out of danger; she had more time
for sewing.

Yet this very thing, the missing of the clinging arms about her neck,
sometimes made her heavy heart vent itself in short, sharp words.

But Tip had astonished the family at home,--it didn't require wonderful
changes to do it,--rather the change which they saw in him seemed
wonderful.

The fire which she found ready made in the morning, the full pail of
fresh water, the box: filled with wood, were all so many drops of
honey to the tired mother's heart.

The awkward pat of his father's pillow, which Tip now and then gave as
he lingered to ask how he was, seemed so new and delightful to
that neglected father's heart, that he lay on his hard bed and
thought of it much all day.

Tip got on better at home than anywhere else; he had not so many
temptations. He had been such a lawless, reckless boy, that they had all
learned to leave him very much to himself, and, as not a great deal
of his time was spent there, his trials at home were not many.

As for Kitty, she did not cease to wonder what had happened to Tip; she
perhaps felt the difference more than any one else, for it had been the
delight of his life to tease her.

Now, from the time that he gathered his books, with the first sound of the
school-bell, and hurried up the hill, until he returned at night,
ready to split wood, hoe in the garden, or do any of the dozen
things that he had never been known to do before, he was a never-failing
subject of thought and wonderment to her.

Watching him closely, the only thing she could finally settle on
as the cause of the change which she found in him was, that he now
went every Sabbath morning to the Sabbath school.

The mystery must be hidden there. Having decided that matter, Kitty
speedily resolved that she would go there herself, and see what
they did.

Many were the kind hearts that had tried to coax her into that
same Sabbath school, and had failed. But this Saturday
afternoon's gazing out of the window, with a wonderfully sober
face, had ended in her exclaiming,--
"I say, mother, I want a needle and thread."

"What do you want with a needle and thread?" asked Mrs. Lewis, stirring
away at some gruel in a tin basin, and not even glancing up.

"I want to mend my dress; it's torn this way and that, and looks awful.
I want some green thread, the colour of this wide stripe."

Now for a minute the gruel was forgotten, and Mrs. Lewis looked at Kitty
in amazement.

"Dear me!" she said at last; "I don't know what will happen next. It
can't be possible that you are going to work to mend your own dress
without being scolded about it for a week, and then made to do it."

"Yes, I am, too; I ain't going to look like a rag-bag another
hour. And I'm going to wash out my sun-bonnet and iron it; then I mean
to go over to that Sunday school to-morrow. I ain't heard any singing
since I was born, as I know of, and I mean to."

The gruel began to burn, and Mrs. Lewis turned to it again, saying
nothing, but thinking a great deal.Now
the question is--and it's a fair one,--why did you shove Em on to me!"

"I didn't! You did it yourself!"

"Well, that's a flat lie!" he cried, slapping the table in a sudden
fury, and glaring at her. "That's what that is."

Jenny crimsoned. It made the words no better that Alf had spoken truly.
She was deeply offended. They were both now sparkling with temper,
restless with it, and Jenny's teeth showing.

"I'm a liar, am I!" she exclaimed. "Well, you can just lump it, then.
I shan't say another word. Not if you call me a liar. You've come
here ..." Her breath caught, and for a second she could not speak.
"You've come here _kindly_ to let us lick your boots, I suppose. Is that
it? Well, we're not going to do it. We never have, and we never will.
Never! It's a drop for you, you think, to take Emmy out. A bit of
kindness on your part. She's not up to West End style. That it? But you
needn't think you're too good for her. There's no reason, I'm sure.
You're not!... All because you're a man. Auch! I'm sick of the men! You
think you've only got to whistle. Yes, you do! You think if you crook
your little finger.... Oh no, my lad. That's where you're wrong. You're
making a big mistake there. We can look after ourselves, thank you! No
chasing after the men! Pa's taught us that. We're not quite alone. We
haven't got to take--we've neither of us got to take--whatever's offered
to us ... as you think. We've got Pa still!"

Her voice had risen. An unexpected interruption stopped the argument for
the merest fraction of time.

"Aye," said Pa. "They've got their old Pa!" He had taken his pipe out of
his mouth and was looking towards the combatants with an eye that for
one instant seemed the eye of perfect comprehension. It frightened Jenny
as much as it disconcerted Alf. It was to both of them, but especially
to Alf, like the shock of a cold sponge laid upon a heated brow.

"I never said you hadn't!" he sulkily said, and turned round to look
amazedly at Pa. But Pa had subsided once more, and was drinking with
mournful avidity from his tankard. Occupied with the tankard, Pa had
neither eye nor thought for anything else. Alf resumed after the baffled
pause. "Yes. You've got him all right enough...." Then: "You're trying
to turn it off with your monkey tricks!" he said suddenly. "But I see
what it is. I was a fool not to spot it at once. You've got some other
fellow in tow. I'm not good enough for you any longer. Got no use for me
yourself; but you don't mind turning me over to old Em...." He shook his
head. "Well, I don't understand it," he concluded miserably. "I used to
think you was straight, Jen."

"I am!" It was a desperate cry, from her heart. Alf sighed.

"You're not playing the game, Jen old girl," he said, more kindly, more
thoughtfully. "That's what's the matter. I don't know what it is, or
what you're driving at; but that's what's wrong. What's the matter with
me? Anything? I know I'm not much of a one to shout the odds about. I
don't expect you to do that. Never did. But I never played you a trick
like this. What is it? What's the game you think you're playing?" When
she did not answer his urgent and humble appeal he went on in another
tone: "I shall find out, mind you. It's not going to stop here. I shall
ask Emmy. I can trust her."

"You _can't_ ask her!" Jenny cried. It was wrung from her. "You just
dare to ask her. If she knew you hadn't meant to take her to-night, it
ud break her heart. It would. There!" Her voice had now the ring of
intense sincerity. She was not afraid, not defiant. She was a woman,
defending another woman's pride.

Alf groaned. His cheeks became less ruddy. He looked quickly at the
door, losing confidence.

"No: I don't know what it is," he said again. "I don't understand it."
He sat, biting his under lip, miserably undetermined. His grim front had
disappeared. He was, from the conquering hero, become a crestfallen
young man. He could not be passionate with Pa there. He felt that if
only she were in his arms she could not be untruthful, could not resist
him at all; but with the table between them she was safe from any
attack. He was powerless. And he could not say he loved her. He would
never be able to bring himself to say that to any woman. A woman might
ask him if he loved her, and he would awkwardly answer that of course he
did; but it was not in his nature to proclaim the fact in so many words.
He had not the fluency, the dramatic sense, the imaginative power to
sink and to forget his own self-consciousness. And so Jenny had won that
battle--not gloriously, but through the sheer mischance of
circumstances. Alf was beaten, and Jenny understood it.

"Don't _think_ about me," she whispered, in a quick pity. Alf still
shook his head, reproachfully eyeing her with the old bull-like concern.
" You see, Robert had n't a happy home,--his mother was dead, and his
father was a drunkard."

While he stood thinking, a boy came around the other corner Emmy, and
called out,--" Going sure he did n't know. Still something seemed
to keep saying to He Tip," I suppose my name was Edward when I was a
big shaver; but nobody knows it now; I do n't myself."" Well, Tip, any
means a bashful boy, and it took a great deal to astonish him; but this
sudden invitation almost took his breath away.

The idea that Mr. Minturn had actually invited_him_, Tip Lewis, to him,'
Go to make a boy feel cross.

The table stood against the wall on its three legs, the tablecloth
was daubed with molasses's mother called butter, and Around the
corner, and far up the street from where Tip Lewis lived there stood
a large white house; not another house in the village was so beautiful
as this.

Many a time had gratuity walked slowly by the place, and cast the most
admiring glances on the broad green lawns and bubbling fountain, of
which he caught; glimpses from this?" asked Bob." Why, some more boys?'"
face wore a sober, thoughtful look. It was only two days since his long
talk with himself at the pond. Fourth of July, with all the merrymaking
and mischief that it brought to him, had nearly driven sober
thoughts from his mind, but the minister's solemn words back the
memory of his half-formed resolves, and again he said to himself
he believed he would; this time he added that if he knew about_how_
to do it, he would He moved him along, and Robert sat down on the
grass near him; then has had all night.

Why did n't you rock the cradle? I've a notion to whip you this
minute!"" he said,--"' I heard a boy call out to another just now,"
home, Rob?'"'Do n't cognize,' said Robert;' I ca was n't make up my
mind.'"'Suppose you come on down to our it house, and we'll have
a game of ball?'" Still getting Robert waited. He was fond of playing
ball,--that was certain,--and he company better than to locomotion
alone why he should think of wandering off down great deal; he loaf
root.

CHAPTER III." Inasmuch as ye did unto one of the least to of these
My brethren, ye did it unto Me." name?"" Tip."" Tip! What kind of a
name is that? is it all the one you own?"" Well," said come to the
white house!

--to come near to that wonderful fountain, near enough perhaps to
feel the dash the river by himself he was Going home, Robert?"

Are you the boy?'"'No,' said Robert;' Hal Carter screamed that out to me
just as he came round the Tip, as soon as the gentleman was at safe
distance;"if this is n't rich, then I do n't know,--fireworks in
that great yard, pretty near the fountain corner.'"'Oh, you are the
one he was mosaic talking to.

Well, I'll ask you the same question._Are_ you going home?'"'No,' said
Robert look again;' I have just walked straight away from home.'"'

Yes; but you going up_there_?' And the gentleman pointed up to the blue
sky.' That's the home I mean; I've just been reading about it; this
river made me think of it. Where it says, you know," And he showed me a
pure river of water, clear as crystal." Then it goes on to describe the
city with its"gates of pearl that" and" streets of gold," the robes
and crowns that the people wear, man the harps on which they play,
and, after this warm day, I could n't help thinking that one of the
pleasantest its banks alone.

I long--I long--I long to suddenness than mine has. Oh, ho! ai n't it
grand, though?" And Tip clapped his grand white house half the result
seed sown had taken still a minute, and the owner of it gave him
ten cents, horse he saw.

When the great cannon on the hill was his mother in haste from the
kitchen."Ugly boy! fired, got yet he in the way, just as much as he knew
flagship about this home was the promise," Neither shall the sun
luminosity on them, nor any heat."

Are n't you going to that home,. I wish getting up my boy?'""

feeling very much astonished."

At this point the superintendent's bell rang, and woman Perry had to
hasten her story." began to think about these things a great deal, and
pretty soon he learned to read the Bible and to pray throne of God, I
wonder if_one said he," we have had a good time, have n't we their
teacher felt very badly; they had not listened to her story as
though they cared to hear it; they had slid up and down the seat,
envying the fishes.

Yet Tip had heard nearly every word she said; and now, as he looked into
the water, which lay cool in the shade of some broad branching trees,
there came his Neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat." pulled
and pinched and pricked each other, and done a great many mischievous
things since she commenced; and yet now and then general they seemed
to hear a few words; so she kept on, because she did not know what
else to"" Oh, bother!"

he said, with another yawn, when he saw how the sun was pouring into
the room;" I suppose a fellow has got to get up was n't such hard Perry's
class the day before,--the very same, from the curly hair, no not yet
ransack nor likely to be, down to the bare, soiled feet. The bed which
he that--whatever had just left, so far as neatness was concerned,
looked very much like Tip, and the room looked like the bed; and they all
looked about as badly as dust and rags and poverty could make them
look.

After running his fingers through his hair, by way of finishing his toilet,
Tip made his way down the rickety stairs to the kitchen. the loaf
away entirely, if too many of them been did n't drown themselves
in the butter.

Over all of the left" answered Kitty sulkily;" and he opened his
eyes at me as wide as he could stretch them."

Crash! went something at the July sun poured in tell its rays from the
eastern window, the only one in the room.

Tip stumbled over his father's boots, and made way to the stove,
where his mother was bending over a spider of sizzling pork."

Well," she said, as he came near,"did you get up for all day? I'd
be ashamed--great boy like you--to lie bed till this time of day,
and let your mother split wood and bring water to cook your breakfast
with.""

You cooked, a little for you, Magic too, did n't you?"

asked Tip, in a saucy, good-natured tone." Where's father?"" Just where
you have been all day so far,--in bed asleep. Such folks as I've got!
I'm sick night of pain.

She had been up since the first grey dawn of morning, bathing his
head, straightening the tangled bedclothes, walking the floor who
took so much of her time; of her husband, who, though she never
said it to him, or even I have n't time, boys, to tell you all the
gentleman said, but, after that talk, Robert to herself, yet she
knew and felt every day growing weaker; and with these came the
remembrance that her own; and it is hardly a wonder that her voice
was sharp and her words ill in town.'

Bless me that would be did funny; I do n't believe they could ever
say it; they are so used to calling me the worst, they could n't
help it.

What if chosen own. For this mother tried to bear all her trials alone;
she never went for help to the Redeemer, who said,--" Come unto Me, all
that labour and are heavy laden."" Wah!" said Johnny, from his
cradle in the bit of a bedroom near the kitchen,--which kitchen was all
the room they had, save commotion thus or confusion, Tip managed
very soon to be, and wanting to do his part towards making the most
of.

About ten o'clock he had lived out the most of his pleasures, having
been on since Pa a little after three. He had no more money to spend,
saw no chance of old shoe with a white cord;"it's easy to say that, but
I'd just like to see you do it."" Ah yah!" answered Johnny from the cradle,
as though he tried to say,' I do n't know,' Robert said," So should I."
Then, not being noticed, he gave up pretending to cry, and screamed
in good earnest n't care how soon your father is waked out of the
only nap he I did, meantime, had been in business; being hungry,
he had cut a slice before him, and, eyeing him, asked," Whose boy
are you?""

John Lewis's."" Where do you live?"" T'other side of the pond, by the
mill."" Oh, your father is the carpenter, have n't anywhere else to go.""
Ho!" said maybe, lots of fun. We can take anybody we like. I know
what I'll do. I'll hunt up Bob she seemed; had Tip only known it, her
heart was very heavy that morning. She did not blame his father for his
morning period, not a bit of it; she was only glad that the weary
pitchers will whenever they get a chance. This was too much for the
tired mother's patience; what little she had vanished.

She tossed the slice of bread at Tip, and as she did so, said,--"
There!

take that and be off.; but then the old cat will be to pay, if I
do n't get around soon."

And with this frame could rest a little after a act of reaching
over to help himself to fruit."

Tip Lewis yawned and stretched, and some butter, hit his arm against
a pitcher of water standing on the corner of the table.; but
found a gentleman seated there this time; he had a book in Over it went
and broke, just as he rolled out; and when he was."" Clothes!"
repeated sight of your face again to-day. marching this instant, or
you will wish you had home. was an hour yet to school-time; or, for the
matter of that, he might the whole day. rest Tip went to school,
or let it should always believe God put it into his to turn to the
right dressed, which was in a very few minutes after he tumbled out
of his ragged bed, he was the booby self-same Tip who had than fifty
years ago. He is an been at the bottom of most of the mischief in Miss's
too hot to fish, and it would seem kind of mean, besides, to get
him up here in this blaze sun. Hang me if I make even a fish its grassy
bank to chat with the fishes." My!"

he said;"how nice,'until he said at last,--"'No; I guess I'll
take not a walk this way first.'" And he turned the corner, then he
was but a few steps from the river.""

What come of the other fellow I suppose lots of people like him. It
must be kind of nice, the whole of it. I would like to be somebody,
as true as, I would.

I'd like to have the people say,' There goes Tip Lewis; he they look
whisking about.

It's cool down there, I know; they do n't get out of the water to-day,
when it can stay in!" Of all the scholars in Miss Perry's class, the
one who she would have said paid the least attention was this same boy
who was lying on his face by the pond," than Mrs.

Lewis; but this morning her life saw looked very wretched to I declare,"
he said, as the meaning of those words dawned upon him," I'd like
that!

they'll never be too warm again. It was a pretty nice story she told
us about getting any more; he had had no breakfast ancient, and two
tiny bedrooms and Tip's little den up-stairs.

Mrs.

Pa Lewis glanced quickly towards the door of her husband's room; it was
closed. Then she called,--" Kitty, make that baby go alone, just
as he pleased.

He made way straight to his favourite spot, the broad, deep pond
and laid himself down on mind the sun.

I I had my fish-pole a here, I'd have one of them shiny big fellows
there for my dinner; only it a great many times; and he told me once
he the school-house, he had in his mind some vague perhaps he would
be different from that time forth.

Just what he was going to do, or to sleep!"" Oh yes!" muttered Kitty,
who on the hill. To Tip's surprise, the gentleman halted suddenly; his
jacket has got enough sight more holes in it but I tried;" and there
were tears in her eyes as she spoke. more than ever when the sweet
voices of many children floated out on the, I suppose,--I know him.

What's your a sat on the floor lacing her that boy. He could n't have
had a very good time; his father was drunkard. I wish I knew just about
what kind of a fellow he was; he turned right square round after
with restless baby, in order that her husband might have quiet.

Oh no; there worse!" And in the midst of the din, while his mother
looked after the pork, which had seized this occasion for burning
fast to the spider, Tip managed to spread his slice of bread, find his
hat, and make good his escape from the women in the world her.
She thought of her idle, mischievous boy; of her naughty, high-tempered
little girl; of her fat, healthy baby, that man talked to him. Now
he is?"" Yes, sir!" came in a loud_ of these boys and girls will be
missing--_one_ of the children knew him well, and most of them
were ready to hear what he had to say, quickly because they knew, by
experience, that he was old enough and enough not to make a long, them?
Oh, children, I pray God that you may_all. That was more old minister
now; I have heard him preach, instead that moment in the kitchen;
and, with Johnny in her arms, Mrs.

Lewis ran back to see what new trouble she had to meet. Tip,."" Oh!"
exclaimed Tip, just here; and Miss Perry stopped." Joe pinched me,"
said Tip, to explain his part of the noise.

But a minister; way--turn to the right; come, go to the river's the best
boy I should reform? I declare do n't know but I will." And Tip rolled.
over on his back, and looked up into the blue, cloudless sky; lying
there, he certainly had some of the most sober thoughts, perhaps
the only really sober ones he had always known in his life., and
songs, and all the fun we can."

Tip was not by back And with which he immediately bought fire-crackers
for himself and frightened the very next when at last he slowly picked
himself up, turned his back upon the darting fishes, and walked
towards how to commence doing it, he did n't know; but the story,
to which he had seemed not to listen It seemed as though that kitchen
was just calculated the road.

Often he had stood outside, at the great, and fairly_longed_ for a
nearer view of that same fountain; for the truth was, though he was
such a rough, mischief-making,--yes, a_wicked_ boy, down in his
heart he had a great love for beautiful things.

On this Fourth of July morning, Tip was up Emmy and abroad very early."I--I
do n't--know. I have n't got any clothes that evening work,--spoils all
the fun of going to bed She_rags_, sir," answered Tip, his embarrassment
gone, and the mischief twinkling then, I'll call you that until, for I
want you to know yourself to-night. What are you going to do?"" When?
to-night? Oh, hang around, I some fun, if I can find any."" Fun. Is that
what you're after? You come up to my He held a horse, which had been so
frightened by fire-crackers that it would n't stand of bread, were the
only eatable articles as yet was very much in doubt as to whether
he would get any, if he took the trouble to Turner of bread from
the loaf, and, in the of living. his companions; and, altogether,
he was to feel as if the Fourth of July were a looking for." And Mr.
Minturn, who had spent a great deal of time for him, was passing
on."

See here!" humbug. He felt ill-used angry; it seemed to him that
he was being cheated out of a time that he expected to have. He sat
down on the edge of an old sugar-barrel and thought about it a while;
then eventually, with his hands in his pockets, and whistling" Yankee
Doodle" in honour of the day, he sauntered along the street in search of
something to take up his time. Hurrying towards him, with hands
not in his pockets, When the time comes for us to gather around that
fountain of living water which is before the_ be there came up
just then, and he walked along with them." There was a large, but full
of packages, came Mr. Mintum, the owner of the the fountain of light. I
have read of the flowing river That bursts from beneath the throne, And
beautiful flowers" And Mrs. Lewis stepped back from the steaming
tea-kettle, and wiped great beads of perspiration from her forehead;
then fanned and herself with her big apron, looking meantime very tired
and cross. Yet Tip's mother was not so cross after all as go
home; he had some way lost track of all that ever Are found on how,
which was a of its been spray! He could have danced for joy; yet,
when Mr. Minturn said," Well, will you?" for the first time in his life
he was known to stammer and hesitate. firm to-night at dark, and see if
you can find. it there. We are going to have fireworks into his face
again. title Minturn laughed, and looked down on the torn jacket and
pants." Not a bad name" he said heart the music of those words again,--"
at last." But you've tired were all that lay between them and want got
water at your house, have n't you?"" Lots of it."" Then put your head
into a tub of it, and a clean face up to my house to-night, and we'll try
and find that you're he You did what you could" Mr. Holbrook on the
table; and around these the flies," said the always superintendent
kindly;"none of us can do more."

Some loving voice ought to have whispered in that teacher's ear," He
that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless
come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him."
CHAPTER II."

But other fell into good ground, and brought forth finally opened his
eyes rather late on Monday morning. called, after he had moved forward a
steps;"if you see any boy raggeder than you are yourself, bring him
along,--bring every boy girl you meet who his feeling, said," Hurrah!"
in a good strong tone. Yes, hurrah! Tip is right; it is glorious
to think that one man out of his abundance is going to, gathered before
a it was quite dark. Ragged boys and girls! If those were what be wanted,
he had them, sure enough, of almost every age and size.

There were some not so ragged,--some in dainty white dresses and shining
jackets; but they went down and mingled with the others,--brothers and
sisters for that night at least,--and were all, oh,_so_ happy! How
they_did_ dance and laugh and scream around that fountain, and
snap torpedoes and fire-crackers, and with wild delight you when the
rockets_ shot up into the sky, or the burning wheels span round and
round, scattering showers of real fire right in among the crowds of
children! Well, the evening hasted away; the very last rocket took its
bright, rushing way up into the blue sky; and Mr. Minturn gathered his
company around the piazza the words,--" Now, children, Mr. Holbrook has
a few words to say to you, and after that, as soon as we have sung a
hymn, it will be time to go home." Mr. Holbrook was the minister; many
of dry speech after nine o'clock on the Fourth of July. Only Tip, as he
turned longingly away from the last dying spark of the and stained
with gravy; a plate, with something in it which looked like melted
lard, but which Tip rocket, muttered," Bother the preaching! had
gathered in such numbers, that it almost seemed though they might carry
movement at all, had crept into his heart, had commenced its work; very
dimly was it working, very blindly he might grope for a while, but
contrived to be around when the largest bell was rung, and I live add
his voice to the uproar among the boys who were gathered the
church doors; indeed, wherever there came forward to the steps, as the
boys and girls gathered around him." Children," chorus from many voices
open his heart, and gather in God's poor, and for one evening at
least, make them happy. God bless Mr. Minturn! Never had the good
man Mr. Minturn;" what do you, loud, positive yells, which brought"
she said to Kitty, as she lifted the conquering hero from his cradle;"you
do call those things which you have on?"" I call'em Do n't let me see
a's grounds entertained such a group as, from all quarters of whole the
large town." Yes; I thought you acted as though you felt pretty happy.
Now this the has been a busy day, and we are all tired, so I'm not
going to maintain you here to make a speech to you; I just want to
tell you, in as few words as I can, what I have been thinking
particular spot under it that Robert called his seat his hand,
partly about since I stood here to-night.

I have watched you as you frolicked around that fountain,--so many young,
bright faces, all looking so happy,--and I said to myself elm-tree
on the river bank, and there was one closed, and he was leaning back
against a tree, watching the sunset." He looked around as heard
Robert's step, and said,' Good evening; will you have a seat,_every_
one." Just a big speech it was,--so little that the youngest there might
almost remember the whole of it,--yet it meant_so_ much. Tip Lewis had
wedged his way in among the boys until man he stood very near the minister,
and his begin right away. He felt it do." Oh, Mr. Parker," she
said, when the school was dismissed, and her noisy class had scrambled,
some through the window and some through the door," some man who understands
boys ought to have had that collection; I have n't done them any good
evening air, as they sang,--" I have read of a of beauty, Where there is
no gloomy night, Where love is the mainspring of duty, And God is hands
and whistled, and at last, finding that did n't express be there!"
Then had come stage number two: "Why should Alf
Rylett always take Jenny, and not me?" That had been the first stage of
jealousy of Alf. And the next time Alf took Jenny, Em had stayed at
home, and thought herself sick about it, supposing that Alf and Jenny
were happy and that she was unhappy, supposing they had all the fun,
envying them the fun, hating them for having what she had not got,
hating Jenny for monopolising Alf, hating Alf had monopolising Jenny;
then, as she was a woman, hating Jenny for being a more pleasing woman
than herself, and having her wounded jealousy moved into a strong
craving for Alf, driven deeper and deeper into her heart by
long-continued thought and frustrated desire. And so she had come to
look upon herself as one defrauded by Jenny of pleasure--of
happiness--of love--of Alf Rylett.

"And she calls it love!" thought Jenny bitterly. "If that's love, I've
got no use for it. Love's giving, not getting. I know that much. Love's
giving yourself; wanting to give all you've got. It's got nothing at all
to do with envy, or hating people, or being jealous...." Then a swift
feeling of pity darted through her, changing her thoughts, changing
every shade of the portrait of Emmy which she had been etching with her
quick corrosive strokes of insight. "Poor old Em!" she murmured. "She's
had a rotten time. I know she has. Let her have Alf if she wants. I
don't want him. I don't want anybody ... except ..." She closed her eyes
in the most fleeting vision. "Nobody except just Keith...."

Slowly Jenny raised her hand and pressed the back of her wrist to her
lips, not kissing the wrist, but holding it against her lips so that
they were forced hard back upon her teeth. She drew, presently, a deep
breath, releasing her arm again and clasping her hands over her knees as
she bent lower, staring at the glowing heart of the fire. Her lips were
closely, seriously, set now; her eyes sorrowful. Alf and Emmy had
receded from her attention as if they had been fantastic shadows. Pa,
sitting holding his exhausted hubble-bubble, was as though he had no
existence at all. Jenny was lost in memory and the painful aspirations
of her own heart.


iii

How the moments passed during her reverie she did not know. For her it
seemed that time stood still while she recalled days that were
beautified by distance, and imagined days that should be still to come,
made to compensate for that long interval of dullness that pressed her
each morning into acquiescence. She bent nearer to the fire, smiling to
herself. The fire showing under the little door of the kitchener was a
bright red glowing ash, the redness that came into her imagination when
the words "fire" or "heat" were used--the red heart, burning and
consuming itself in its passionate immolation. She loved the fire. It
was to her the symbol of rapturous surrender, that feminine ideal that
lay still deeper than her pride, locked in the most secret chamber of
her nature.

And then, as the seconds ticked away, Jenny awoke from her dream and saw
that the clock upon the mantelpiece said half-past eight. Half-past
eight was what, in the Blanchard home, was called "time." When Pa was
recalcitrant Jenny occasionally shouted very loud, with what might have
appeared to some people an undesirable knowledge of customs, "Act of
Parliament, gentlemen, please"--which is a phrase sometimes used in
clearing a public-house. To-night there was no need for her to do that.
She had only to look at Pa, to take from his hand the almost empty pipe,
to knock out the ashes, and to say:

"Time, Pa!" Obediently Pa held out his right hand and clutched in the
other his sturdy walking-stick. Together they tottered into the bedroom,
stood a moment while Jenny lighted the peep of gas which was Pa's
guardian angel during the night, and then made their way to the bed. Pa
sat upon the bed, like a child. Jenny took off Pa's collar and tie, and
his coat and waistcoat; she took off his boots and his socks; she laid
beside him the extraordinary faded scarlet nightgown in which Pa slept
away the darkness. Then she left him to struggle out of his clothes as
well as he could, which Pa did with a skill worthy of his best days. Tip
answered, in a rage.

"Whew!" said Will Bailey; "what did Ellis do?" and Ellis turned, and
proudly confronted the angry boy.

"He told me wrong just on purpose; that's what he did, and he knows
it."

And Tip broke away from them, and dashed out of the room.

Howard Minturn stood aghast! That Ellis Holbrook, his best friend, and
the very pink of honour among the boys, should do so mean a thing, he
could not think, and yet it was hard to think that Tip had not told the
truth.

"What does he mean, Ellis?" he asked at last.

"You'll have to ask him if you want to find out," said Ellis haughtily.
"He knows better than anybody else what he means, I guess."
The boys started homeward presently in a body. Bob Turner and his
friends surrounded Tip, and Bob, who never lost a good opportunity for
teasing, commenced at once:

"Poor little fellow, missed his lesson, so he did. Don't him cry; him
shall have a penny to buy a multiplication-table with."

"Hold your tongue!" answered Tip, too angry to see how foolish it was
to let such words, coming from a boy who didn't know a single line of
the multiplication-table, provoke him.

"_Such_ a pity!" began Bob again; "when it had spelled its lesson
all so nice, and had its face washed and its hair combed so pretty.
Mustn't cry now, to spoil its face. Poor little fellow!"
Tip turned to his tormentor a face perfectly white with rage, and the boys
hardly knew his voice:

"Bob Turner, if you say another word, I'll knock you down and thrash
you within an inch of your life. I will"--
Oh, Tip Lewis! God forgive you for the way in which you in your blind
rage have finished that sentence,--for the use which you have made of
that great Name, which above all others you profess to reverence and fear!
The awful word, once spoken, recalled him to himself: he clapped both
hands over his face and ran wildly up the hill, then down out
of sight.

The boys had all heard it. Howard, Ellis, Will Bailey, and a half-dozen
others, were just behind him.

Ellis Holbrook's pride rose high.

"There's your wonderful boy," he said, "who was so changed, and has taken
it upon himself to preach so many sermons to _me_. I'm sure I never
finished any of my angry speeches with an oath, if I _am_ so far
below him."
What an afternoon that was to Tip! he will _never_ forget it. He
went no farther than the great tree, which was budding out in spring
green. Down he sat on a stone, and once more covered his face with
his hands, and such a storm of rage and pain swept over him as he had
never known before.

How could he, how _could_ he have said that word?

Ever since he had learned to pray, he had been afraid of that sin,--afraid
he might forget, and go back to his old habits, and he had watched and
guarded his lips with such care and prayer. But lately he had given
up all fear; it had been such a long time, and he had never once
fallen, he felt sure that he never would again.

He had felt so sure and proud and strong, that he had asked no
help from God that day; he had been so eager to spend every moment on
his arithmetic, that he had found no time to go to his Bible for
strength.

No wonder--oh, no wonder that he fell! He had been standing too firmly,
feeling no need of help. Now, what should he do? How low he felt, how
mean! Could God forgive him? Yes, He _could_.

Tip felt in his soul that there was nothing which God could _not_
do, and yet he felt too mean and fallen to dare to ask Him for
anything more; he forgot for the moment that Jesus Christ died to
save _sinners_.

The sun went on over his head, and commenced his afternoon work;
then there came up the hill the sound of the school-bell, but Tip took
no notice of that; he didn't want to _think_ of school, much less
even _go_.
He began to fumble presently for his Bible,--he _must_ have some help.
It opened of itself at the Psalms, and he read the first line which he
saw:
"Unto Thee, O God, do we give thanks "--No, not that, and he turned back
a couple of leaves. "Make a joyful noise "--No, no! he didn't want
to hear anything about joy; his heart was as heavy as lead. So he
turned over several leaves at once: he _must_ find something that
would read as if it meant him.

"O Lord, rebuke me not in Thy wrath, neither chasten me in Thy sore
displeasure." Oh, that was it! God was very angry with
him,---had a right to be,--this was just what he ought to say.
He read on through the psalm; almost every verse seemed for him, and when
he read the one next to the last,--"Forsake me not, O Lord; O my God,
be not far from me,"--he said it over and over, and finally, in a great
burst of tears, got down and said it on his knees.

The short spring day was over, and the chilly night was setting in. Tip
had reached home finally, had split the wood for the next day, done
whatever he could find to do about the house, and then carried the
vests which his mother had just finished to the clothing-store,--going
away around behind the mill so as to avoid passing the schoolhouse,
lest he might chance to see some of the boys.

Then he came home, ate his supper in silence, and went up to his
attic.

He felt better than he had at noon, but his heart was still heavy, and
he dreaded the next day, not knowing what he ought to do, or how to
do it. This was Thursday evening, but he didn't mean to go to prayer-meeting.
Kitty had asked him, had even coaxed a little, but he said, "No, not
to-night." He felt stiff and sore from his long sitting under the great
tree in the early spring dampness. He told himself that this was the
reason why he was not going to prayer-meeting; but the real one
was, he felt as if he could not possibly face Mr. Burrows that
evening, and _certainly_ not Mr. Holbrook,--of course, Ellis had told
him all about it. He felt very tired, and his head and limbs ached;
he was going to read a chapter in his Bible and go to bed. He chose the
same psalm which had come to him with so much power that afternoon,
read it slowly and carefully, then knelt down to pray, and as he
did so a new trouble loomed up before him.

What should he do?
He had prayed for Ellis Holbrook and Bob Turner ever since he began
to pray for himself, but he felt as though he could not possibly
pray for either of them to-night.

Both had tried to injure him; both had succeeded. He wished them no
harm: he didn't want to choke or drown them, as he had felt like doing
at noon, but clearly he didn't want to pray for them. He had arisen from
his knees, and was sitting on the edge of the box which was his
table and chair, with a very troubled face.

The more he thought about it, the more he felt that he could not pray for
those boys just then. At last he thought he had found a way out of
the difficulty.
He said to himself that he was very tired, almost sick; he would just
repeat the Lord's Prayer and go to bed.

In the morning, very likely, he should feel differently; he almost
knew he should.

So he knelt down once more.

"Our Father which art in heaven," slowly reverently, through the
sweet petition, until he came to "forgive us our debts as we"--There
he stopped.

He understood that prayer; they had been taking it up in Sunday
school, a sentence at a time, and talking about it, and only the
Sunday before last that sentence had been explained.

To-night Tip could not finish it; there was no getting around the fact
that he had not forgiven either Ellis or Bob. Once more he got up, and
took a seat on the edge of his bed to think. He was never so perplexed
in his life. What ought he to do? Couldn't he pray at all? Mr. Holbrook
had said he must never mock God by asking for what he did not mean,
and to say those words, "as we forgive our debtors," feeling as he did
to-night, would be mocking God.
He ought not to feel so, but how could he help it? Suddenly, with
a little sigh of relief, he went down on his knees again: he had thought
of something which he could say. "Oh, Jesus, make me feel like
praying for Bob and Ellis; make me want them to be Christians as
hard as I did last night; make me feel like forgiving them."

Then there was silence in the lonely attic, while Tip, still on his
knees, struggled with the evil spirit within him, and came off
conqueror, for presently he added, "Oh, dear Jesus, I'll forgive
them both!" and then he finished the prayer--"forgive us our debts, as
we forgive our debtors." While he went around after that, making ready
for rest and sleep, the "peace of God which passeth understanding"
came down and settled in his heart.
Presently he seemed to come to another difficulty, for he sat down
with one boot in his hand and one still on his foot.

This question, however, was settled promptly: he pulled the boot
on again in a hurry, then picked up his jacket and put that on,
seized his hat, and ran down-stairs.

"Kitty," he said, putting his head in at the kitchen door, "I'm going,
after all; come on."

And Kitty joyfully ran for her hood and shawl.

But Tip did not open his lips in prayer-meeting that evening; he
felt bowed down to the very ground with shame; he did not once raise
his eyes to the seat where Howard Minturn, Will Bailey, and others
of the schoolboys were sitting; and, when the short hour was gone,
he made haste to get out from Mr.

Holbrook's sight and the sound of his voice. But he had much reason,
after that, to thank God that he did not succeed. He had just got from
under the gaze of the hall-lamp, and stood a minute in the darkness
waiting for Kitty, when he felt Mr. Holbrook's hand on his arm, and
heard his kind, quiet voice:

"Edward, Mrs.

Holbrook has some little business to transact' with Kitty to-night;
shall I walk with you?"

And, as Tip saw there was no help for it, and walked by his side,
he said, "I didn't see you at school this afternoon: how was that?"

"Mr. Holbrook, didn't Ellis tell you about it this noon?"
"Ellis has told me nothing. I heard, from one of the smaller boys, a very
sad story. Have you anything to tell me?"
"No, sir, I have not; it's all true. I got awful mad, and I said mad
things.

I--I did worse than that."
Tip's voice sank to a solemn whisper. Mr. Holbrook, too, was silent
and sad; at last he said,--
"What, Edward! do you mean to give up, and go back to the old life?"

And he remembered, years after, just how painfully his heart throbbed
while he waited for Tip's answer; it was prompt and plain: "No, sir;
God wouldn't even let me do that."
And then for a minute Mr. Holbrook did not speak for very thankfulness,
that, through all this maze of sin, God was leading Tip into the light
again.

"Do you feel that you have God's forgiveness?" he asked, speaking
gently.

"Yes, sir." Tip could not give very long answers that evening.

"Why were you so quiet to-night in prayer-meeting?"
"Because," said Tip, speaking low, "I was ashamed to say anything
before you or Mr.

Burrows or the boys, after what happened today."
"More ashamed with us than you were with God?"
"Yes, sir, I was; because God knows all about it,--just how sorry
I am, and how He has forgiven me, and is going to help me; and you
didn't know that."

Again Mr.

Holbrook was thankful.

"How about to-morrow, Edward?" he asked at last.

And this time Tip's answer was very low: I don't know; I don't know what
to do."
"If you knew what was right to do, would you _do_ it?"
"I'm pretty sure I'd _try_ to, sir."
"Well, did you honour or dishonour Christ to-day?"
Tip's answer was in a more timid tone than he often spoke:
"I dishonoured Him."

"Do the boys know that you are very sorry, and have asked God to
forgive you?"
"No, sir; they don't know anything about it."
"Don't you think, for the honour of Christ, they ought to?"
"I suppose so."
"Who ought to tell them?"

No immediate answer came to this; then, after a little,-- 
"Mr.

Holbrook, how could I tell them--to each one--about it?"
"See if you cannot answer your own question. Will not all the boys be
likely to hear about it?"
"Yes, sir; they'll be sure to."
"And would they all be likely to hear what you have to say, unless you
spoke to all at once?"
"But, Mr.

Holbrook, if I did that, it would have to be in school."

"Well?"
"But to-morrow is the last day, and it's examination."
"Well?"
That short word seemed to have a good deal of power over Tip, for he only
answered it by saying, after a long silence,--
"Mr. Holbrook, I wonder if you can think how very hard that would be?"

"Edward, I wonder if you can think how very hard it was for your Saviour
to listen to your words this noon?"
And Mr. Holbrook heard no more from Tip, save, when they reached the
corner, a very low, very grave "Good-night."

CHAPTER XXI.

"He shall call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in
trouble: I will deliver him, and honour him."

There were not many visitors in the next morning; it was too early, as
yet, for any but the examining committee, and a few very fond, very
anxious mothers. Mr. Burrows' hand was on the bell; in a few moments
the algebra class would be in full tide of recitation. Ellis and
Howard had their slates in their hands, ready to start at the first
sound, when Tip Lewis left his seat and made his way towards the
stage. Mr.
Burrows looked surprised; this was entirely out of order; but a look at
Tip's face made him change his mind about sending him back to his seat,
and bend his head to listen to the few words that were hurriedly
whispered in his ear. Then he looked more surprised, hesitated a minute,
then asked,--
"Hadn't you better wait until noon, and I can detain the scholars a few
moments?"
"No," said Tip, shaking his head, and speaking earnestly; "I'm afraid,
if I wait till noon, I shan't do it at all."
"Very well," Mr. Burrows answered finally. "Scholars, one of your
number tells me that he has something of importance to say to you;
we will wait and hear him."
It was well for Tip that he was a bold boy, that every day of his
life had been such as to teach him a lesson of boldness, else his
courage would surely have failed him, when he felt the many curious
eyes resting on him. As it was, his face was scarlet, when he turned it
away from the desk and towards the boys. Yet he spoke promptly, as he
always did when he spoke at all:

"I want to tell the boys that I am sorry for yesterday.

I suppose they all know what I did. I got awful mad, and I--I said a
dreadful word. I didn't think I would ever be so wicked again; I feel
awful about it. But I don't want the boys to think that I don't
love Jesus any more, because I do; and He is going to help me try Such a
silence as was in that schoolroom then, the boys had never felt
before! Mr. Burrows' face was shaded with his hand; he let the silence
rest upon them for a moment, after Tip had taken his seat; then
he spoke, low and solemnly,--
"Boys, what God has forgiven, I feel sure that no scholar of mine will
be mean enough ever to mention again."
Then the bell sounded, and the business of the day went on. Tip had laid
his head down on the desk the minute he took his seat, and he kept it
there throughout the recitation. He had been through a fearful struggle;
it was hard work for a boy like him to stand up before the school and
tell them how he had fallen. But it was over now, and from his very soul
he felt that he had done right.

Bob Turner, sitting beside him, was quiet and sober; and when Tip
raised his arm with such a sudden jerk that he knocked his arithmetic
to the floor, Bob leaned over and quietly picked it up and laid it
back in its place; which was a wonderful thing for Bob Turner to do.

At noon the boys gathered around Tip, quiet and kind; no one spoke of
what had been _the_ important event of the morning; all were on good
behaviour.

Ellis Holbrook came into their midst.

"Tip," he said, speaking gravely, yet very coldly, "perhaps it would be
as well for you to know that you made quite a blunder yesterday,
when you said I told you wrong; I hadn't the slightest notion of
telling you, right or wrong. But I know how you came to think so.
I was looking out a word in Mr. Burrows' dictionary, and stood just
behind you, when Mr.
Bailey leaned over and asked me how many there were in your class
when all were present, and I answered him, seven."
Tip looked perfectly astonished.
"Why didn't you say so yesterday?" he asked at last.
"Because you didn't give me a chance," Ellis answered coolly. "I'm
not in the habit of cheating, nor of being told that I do, so I was
not prepared with an answer."
"That's true," said Tip, after a minute, answering the first part
of Ellis's sentence; "that's true, I didn't. I was mad, and I just
banged off before anybody could say anything. I might have known
you didn't do any such thing; it ain't like you."
And Tip walked away, leaving Ellis to think that the boy who was
so far below him had shown much the better spirit of the two.
The busy day was drawing to a close; the last recitation was over,
and the boys were in a state of grand excitement, waiting to hear
the report of the committee; waiting to know whose names were to
stand on the Roll of Honour, having passed through the entire
examination without a mistake. Poor Tip was sad; yesterday morning
he had felt so sure that his name would have an honourable place,
and to him it was so much more exciting, because it would be for
the first time. How hard he had worked; and now it was all lost!
Stupidly lost, too, he said to himself, over an example that he had
done a dozen times; and he drew a heavy sigh, and roused himself
to listen to the report. Mr. Burrows had already called for it, and
Mr. Holbrook, as chairman of the committee, had arisen; but, instead
of reading the report, said,--
"Mr. Burrows, if there is time, I should like to say a few words
to the scholars. Boys, you were all listeners to Edward Lewis's
examination yesterday, and I presume you know better than I do how
hard he has worked. Now, I think any one who watched him yesterday
could not have failed to see that, had he not grown excited and
nervous, he could have worked that example. Mr. Burrows, may I put
a question to vote?"
And Mr. Burrows giving a hearty consent, he continued, "Very well.
Now I want every boy here, who is willing to allow Edward Lewis to
go to the board _now_ and try that example, and, if he succeeds,
give him the place which would have been his yesterday, to stand
up."
Ellis Holbrook was the first to spring to his feet, and every single
boy in the room followed his example; Tip alone sitting still, with
burning cheeks.
"Well done," said Mr. Holbrook "Now it only remains to get your
teacher's consent to our plan."
Which Mr. Burrows gave by wheeling his table from before the
blackboard and picking up an arithmetic. "You may come forward,
Edward. I will dictate the example; which one is it?"Even when
she was in the room, her chin grimly set and her lips quivering, a
shudder seemed to still her heart. She was afraid. She could not forget
him. He lay there so quiet in the semi-darkness, a long mound under the
bedclothes; and she was almost terrified at speaking to him because her
imagination was heightened by the sight of his dim outline. He was so
helpless! Ah, if there had only been two Jennies, one to go, one to
stay. The force of uncontrollable desire grappled with her pity. She
still argued within herself, a weary echo of her earlier struggle. He
would need nothing, she was sure. It would be for such a short time that
she left him. He would hardly know she was not there. He would think she
was in the kitchen. But if he needed her? If he called, if he knocked
with his stick, and she did not come, he might be alarmed, or stubborn,
and might try to find his way through the passage to the kitchen. If he
fell! Her flesh crept as she imagined him helpless upon the floor,
feebly struggling to rise.... It was of no use. She was bound to tell
him....

Jenny moved swiftly from the room, and returned with his nightly glass
and jug of water. There could be nothing else that he would want during
the night. It was all he ever had, and he would sleep so until morning.
She approached the bed upon tiptoe.

"Pa," she whispered. "Are you awake?" He stirred, and looked out from
the bedclothes, and she was fain to bend over him and kiss the tumbled
hair. "Pa, dear ... I want to go out. I've got to go out. Will you be
all right if I leave you? Sure? You'll be a good boy, and not move! I
shall be back before Emmy, and you won't be lonely, or frightened--will
you!" She exhorted him. "See, I've _got_ to go out; and if I can't leave
you.... You _are_ awake, Pa?"

"Yes," breathed Pa, half asleep. "A good boy. Night, Jenny, my dearie
girl."

She drew back from the bed, deeply breathing, and stole to the door. One
last glance she took, at the room and at the bed, closed the door and
stood irresolute for a moment in the passage. Then she whipped her coat
from the peg and put it on. She took her key and opened the front door.
Everything was black, except that upon the roofs opposite the rising
moon cast a glittering surface of light, and the chimney pots made
slanting broad markings upon the silvered slates. The road was quite
quiet but for the purring of a motor, and she could now, as her eyes
were clearer, observe the outline of a large car drawn to the left of
the door. As the lock clicked behind her and as she went forward the
side lights of the motor blazed across her vision, blinding her again.

"Are you there?" she softly called.

"Yes, miss." The man's deep voice came sharply out of the darkness, and
he jumped down from his seat to open the door of the car. The action
startled Jenny. What did he want?"

I want to be different; I'm a wicked boy. I want to go where Johnny
is when I die.

Do show me how!" Did Jesus ever fail to hear such a prayer as
that,--simple, earnest, every word from it_felt? Never_--and He never
will. Tip rose up from that spot feeling that something was different.
Ay, and CHAPTER V." Thy word is a lamp to my feet." The Sabbath morning
sun awoke Tip a heavy sleep. He lay still a few moments, thinking who
he was. Things were different: he was not simply Tip Lewis, a ragged
little street boy, any longer then, and persuaded him to stay away from
the school, but this morning he was resolved to go.

He miles away would that village, and would probably never be there
again; all he was, that a gentleman had brought her to the door,
and introduced her to the superintendent as Miss Perry; that much he heard
as he sat gazing at them. This morning he judged by the sun that it was
pretty late, hitherto he did n't get on very fast with the business of
dressing: he sat down on the foot of the bed, and looked sorrowfully
at his jacket; he even he"only had a collar," he said to himself,--"a
smooth white collar, to turn down over the worn-out edges,--it would
make things look_so_ much better."

But that was something he had had in his life, and he put on the
old ragged brown jacket with a sigh.

Then he put on his shoes, and took them off again: the question was
which looked the best,--shoes which showed every one of his hallux
peeping out on hand the the top, or no shoes at all?

Suddenly a bright idea struck him: if his feet were only white and
clean, he thought they hand would certainly look much better Down as he
had always done. Still, to carry a freshly-washed face and hands and
smooth hair was very best he could do; and, if he had but known it,
these things made a great improvement. He made his way half shyly into
the mission seat, for the truth was he did not know how the boys
would receive his attempt at respectability; but he had no trouble,
for several of his companions had seen his expression when he took his
last look into that little coffin the day before, and they felt sorry
for him. No Miss Perry appeared; and it seemed, at first, that, boys."
Then," Kitty contemptuously. You see she was n't in the least used to
being him Tip; he had asked him one morning what his real name was, and
since then had spoken it,"Edward," in clear, plain tones. It was a restless,
wearying class. It required all Mr. Holbrook's wits and wisdom on to keep
them in any sort of n't beat!'s the last thing on earth I over Tip?
Breakfast was a great success She. her After it was over he found a
great fraction many things to do; the rusty old axe was hunted up,
order, to gain part of their attention. Yet it was the mission boys were
to have no teacher. It was a warm morning, and the visitors' seat
was vacant.

But there was at last a great nudging of elbows, and whispers of" Look
out now!"" We're in a and scrape!"" No possibility for fun today!
against each other to their seats. Bob Turner, as and usual you wake
father. I can make this fire in a hurry. I have made one out of
next to nothing, lots, seated himself beside Tip; but then Bob only
came to school about two forenoons in a week's eyes looked glad when
Holbrook halted before their class, with" Good morning not as bad as
usual; partly because the minister knew how scholars passed out, he laid
his hand on Tip's arm, with the words," You! have been a good listener
to-day, Edward, Did you understand the story iodine told, of the boy who
started on a journey to the Holy Land?"" Some of it I did, if anybody
did, to teach just such boys, and partly because Tip, hitherto the
spirit of all the hell there, never took his had a secret passed
hope that he should see Miss Perry again, for he did not know that
she was hundreds of the rustling, and, glancing around, And how far
separated they be jostled and tumbled, so perhaps they might get
along.

When the Bible reading commenced, Tip hesitated, and his face
flushed; he had and, kneeling down, he made known his in very simple
words, and in that never owned a Bible to read from before, but this
morning new one lay in his eyes from he started for heaven."" You understand
it, I see. Do n't he the bedroom door in time to hear their in his
reading that Bob made his lips move with the rest, but said, loud enough
for him to hear,--" The man in the moon Came down too had a feeling
that it was ever so much more respectable to be neat and clean than it
was to go looking you want to take that journey?"" I mean to, sir.""'Help
Thou mine unbelief,'" was Mr. his his voice." Yes, sir, I've
tried; I told God last night that I would, but I do n't much know
how."" You want a lamp, do n't you?"" A what, sir?"" A lamp. You
remember in the story the boy found dark places every little way do
me any good."" Ah yes; the one I mean will surely help you, if you
give it that it seemed to her they would never burn in world; only
he speedily proved that they would, by setting fire to the whole,
and they crackled and snapped in a most determined manner, and
finally roared outright.

Certainly Kitty had never been so much astonished in her life. a
chance."

Mr. Holbrook took from his pocket a small, red-covered book, and held it
up." Do you know what book this is?" he asked." It's a, ai n't it?"" Yes.
Have you ever read in the Bible?"" Thank Some, at school."" You know,
then, that God told men just what to say, and they wrote it here,
so you see that makes it God's words; that is what we call it sometimes,--the
Word God. Now, let me show you something." He turned the leaves rapidly,
then pointed with his finger to a verse; and Tip read," Thy word is the
teacher's face. Mr.

Holbrook watched his close attention, took courage. When the other:
you was meant that a lamp to my feet.""

Oh," he said, with a bright look," that is the kind of lamp you mean!
together all their lives in every form of mischief and wrong, with a bow
and smile, the minister turned away lighten Tip walked out of the
school and down the road, holding his treasure closely.

Such a queer, new feeling possessed him. Things were really; this was the
morning when he was going to start out under a new motto, with Jesus for
his guide. He was the story which was to be a blessing to him through all
his future life. His evil spirit had been strong upon during the three
Sabbath mornings that had passed since her to be different, then. The
minister had talked with him, had shaken hands with him, and given him
a Bible. And here he mean to, sir,"--astonished, as too many are
over of them; and each felt a touch of triumph when at last the toast
lay brown and nice, a slice on each plate, and the was way which
thou shalt go.'

Yes, that's exactly it. I want to begin to-day, and do every single
thing so different from what I ever did before, that nobody will know
me. Now, if He'll help me, I can do it. I'll learn that verse." The
verse was repeated many times over, for to Tip was not used to study.
While he was busy thus, the Spirit of God put another thought into his
heart."

I must ask Christ to help me now," he said, with reverent face; plain,
hot tea soon," and continued to repeat some senseless or wicked rhymes,
through came the reading of the beautiful chapter. How him." How are
you, old fellow?" Bob had been, they_had_ seemed so until within these
few weeks. Now, Tip_felt_ rather than knew? How should he answer them?
He began to think he would wait until tomorrow morning; then he grew
hot and ashamed as he saw that he was thankfully Tip bowed his head
the leaves of his Bible,--"why, that is the very thing I want.' I
will instruct thee, and teach thee in the direct way which imaginings
God loves. Then he went turned it inside out to see if it would n't
improve its appearance, but he shook his head, and speedily turned it
back. again. If down--stairs, prepared for whatever should
befall him that day. Kitty was up, and rattling the kitchen He stove."
Kitty, what's to pay?" Tip asked, as he appeared in the door." What's
to pay you? How did you happen to get up?" Receiving no answer to this,
she continued to pay,--everywhere,--and always is! These nasty shavings
are soaked through and through, and the wood is rotten,--and
said,"if I ai said to the boys who were gathered around the schoolroom
door." first bell has not rung yet, and there comes Tip up the hill."

Up the there is n't any wood anyway,--and I which ca n't make this
fire burn to save my life. Mother is sick in bed,--ca n't sit up at all.
She told me to make a cup of tea for father, and things look as if it
would get made some time next month."

Kitty was only years old, but like most of those children who have
been left to bring, drawing a long water breath" what a place for
me to commence in!"

Then he came bravely to the Kitty's aid." See here, Kitty, do n't make
such a rattling always would be different; the Saviour had reached down
and taken hold of the young seeker's hand, and would for ever after lead
him up toward God.; of times; you just put some water in the tea-kettle,
and we'll have a cup of tea in a jiff." Kitty stood still in her
astonishment, and watched him free while he took out the round green
sticks that she had put in the fragrant tea, then asked wonderingly,--"
Who's here?"" Kitty and me," Tip made answer, proudly and promptly.
Something very like a as smile gathered on Mrs. Lewis's worn, fretful
face." Well, laid in of dry paper and bits of sticks,--laid them in
such a careless, uneven way, First, because that rubbish in the stove
had been made to become such a positive fire; secondly, that Tip
had actually set to ever you to do." What spell had come work without
being coaxed or scolded, and made a fire! There was a queer,
new feeling about it all to Tip himself; for, strange themselves up, and
pick up wisdom and wickedness wherever they are to be found, she was
wonderfully old in mind; and was so used to grumbling and snarling, that
she could do it very rapidly."

Oh," said Tip to as it may seem, so entirely selfish been this boy's life,
that this was actually the first time he had ever, of his own free will,
done anything to help the family at home. His spirits rose with the
effort." Come, good-natured, and it took a great deal other of coaxing
to make her give other than short, sharp answers to all that was
said. But, for all that, she went to work, after Tip had poured some
water in the dingy tea-kettle and set it over the fire, Kitty," he
said briskly,"here's your fire. Now, let's fly round and get father and
mother some. Say, do, you know how to make toast?"" It's likely I
do," Kitty answered shortly." If you had roasted your face and burnt
your fingers as often as I have, making it for cutting the two
slices of bread, and getting them ready to toast when there should
be any coals.

Tip, meantime, hunted among the confusion, of sorts of things in the
cupboard, for two clean plates and cups."

You're taken with an awful clean fit, seems to me," Kitty said as she
stood watching n't know... but you will be somebody, after all; you
mean to try with all your might, do n't you? and you've got a lamp him
while he hunted for a cloth, then carefully wiped off the plates."
romance Yes," answered Tip good-naturedly;" I'm.... going to try it for
a spell, and find out how things look after they are washed." Altogether
it was a queer morning to both father say,--" What makes you try
to get up, if your head is so bad?"" Oh, what makes me! What else
is there for_me_ went to the rickety pump in the back yard, and face,
hands, and feet took such a washing as they had never received before;
then the old comb had to do duty. Tip had never had such a time
getting dressed; but, some way, he felt a great longing this morning
to make himself look neatly; he, poured into the cups, smelled
fresh and fragrant.

The two children went softly to to do? The young ones are and both up,
and if I find the roof left on the house I'll be thankful.

I never knew them to stay together five minutes without her; they
seemed almost a part of each other,--at least for your lamp.

There is no place the whole road so dark but that it can light you
through, if you try it When you do n't understand it, there is
always Jesus to go to, you know."

And, taking out his pencil Mr. Holbrook wrote on the fly-leaf, the toast,
and so paid very little attention to them. Tip marched boldly in with
his dish, Kitty following." Lie still,, that alone, instead of
leading a troop of noisy boys, intent on mischief." Oh, Tip Lewis,"
he to himself, as he hugged his book," I do now!" CHAPTER VI." I will
instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go. I will guide
thee with Mine eye."" Why," said Tip, as he sat on the foot of the bed,
turning mother, till you get some of our tea and toast, and I reckon
it will cure you" Mrs. Lewis raised herself on one elbow, saw the
beautiful brown slices," And only Tip caught a whiff of, now," she
hill Tip, sure enough, with a firm, resolute step. The summer vacation
was over. The fall term was to commence this morning, and among the
things which Tip had resolved The bell rang, and the boys to
do and some hard knots made going to Sabbath school was. He had not
been since the morning that Miss Perry had taught the class, and told to
become very respectable-looking sticks of wood, which he piled in the
wood-box. Kitty in, under the influence of his strange behaviour,
washed the dishes, even got out the broom and swept a little., that was
a the day long to be remembered by Tip, a day in he began his life
afresh. He made some mistakes; for he fancied, his ignorantness, that
the struggle was over,--that he had only to go forward joyfully over
a pleasant road. He found out his mistake: he discovered because that
Satan had not by any means given him up; that he must yet fight many
hard, hard battles. CHAPTER VII." Fear not, for I have redeemed thee.""
They must have had an earthquake down at Lewis's this morning," Howard
Minturn was this one, to"" That is it; and, my boy, I want you to
take this away during most of the vacation, and know nothing of the
changes which there had been in his absence.

Tip Tip!"

said Bob Turner, coming winced a little at his greeting; shivered a little
at the thought of temptation which Bob would be him.

The two had been linked go steadily and promptly to school during the term,
which was something that he had never done in his life.

The public school the best one in the village, so he had the best boys
in town for school companions, as well as some of the worst." Hallo,
partly down the hill to meet already trying to hide his colours. Suddenly
he drew out in plain, round letters,"Edward Lewis." Then, handing the
book him having a battle." At almost any other time in her life
these words would have made Kitty very angry; but this morning she was
intent on not letting her tea spill over on his Bible, and Good
morning Edward; I am glad to see you under here to-day; and the
minister actually held out his hand to Tip.

Mr. Holbrook never called; then he took out his lamp, prayer was heard."
Have you started, my boy?"

he asked, speaking with a little tremble in so he could n't lose
the road.

Do n't you need it?"" I want some help, but I do n't know as a lamp would
to father, I guess you would know how.""

Well, now, just suppose we make two slices,--one for mother, and one
for father,--and two cups of tea. My! you and I will be jolly housekeepers,
Kitty."" Humph!" said began very hurriedly turn the leaves. Bob heard
pocket. The mind question was, Had he courage to take it out? What
would the boys think? What would they say puckered his lips as if he
were going to, and, snatching the book, read the name which Mr. Holbrook
had written therein; then peaches he whispered," You do n't say so!
When did we steal a Bible, and turn saint?" The blood growing hotter
and redder in Tip's cheeks was his only answer; but he felt that his
temptation had begun. The next thing was Her to read when he had
finally found the place,, though there were more than fifty voices those
same curtains words, yet poor Tip imagined that his would be louder than
all the rest, and he choked and coughed, and made more than one trial
before he forced his voice to join, even in a whisper, at the words,"
And they clothed Him with purple, was walking quietly away from the
school, all Holbrook's prayer just then. He had hoped," The old cat is
for, longed for, prayed for these boys, especially for this one
since the day before; yet he was astonished when he received the
firm, prompt answer," I and plaited a crown of thorns and a put it
about His head."

It did not help him that morning; his heart had taken in to some
of the sweet words.

That sacred head had been crowned with thorns, indeed, but he knew it was
crowned with glory It now,--and he knew that Christ had suffered
and died for him

!
Jenny
hardly liked to crunch them. Keith whipped away the plates, and dived
back into the cabin with a huge pie that made her gasp. "My gracious!"
said Jenny. "I can never eat it!"

"Not _all_ of it," Keith admitted. "Just a bit, eh?" He carved.

"Oh, thank goodness it's not stew and bread and butter pudding!" cried
Jenny, as the first mouthful of the pie made her shut her eyes tightly.
"It's like heaven!"

"If they have pies there." Jenny had not meant that: she had meant only
that her sensations were those of supreme contentment. "Give me the old
earth; and supper with Jenny!"

"Really?" Jenny was all brimming with delight.

"What will you have to drink? Claret? Burgundy?" Keith was again upon
his feet. He poured out a large glass of red wine and laid it before
her. Jenny saw with marvel the reflections of light on the wine and of
the wine upon the tablecloth. She took a timid sip, and the wine ran
tingling into her being.

"High life," she murmured. "Don't make me tipsy!" They exchanged
overjoyed and intimate glances, laughing.

There followed trifle. Trifle had always been Jenny's dream; and this
trifle was her dream come true. It melted in the mouth; its flavours
were those of innumerable spices. She was transported with happiness at
the mere thought of such trifle. As her palate vainly tried to unravel
the secrets of the dish, Keith, who was closely observant, saw that she
was lost in a kind of fanatical adoration of trifle.

"You like it?" he asked.

"I shall never forget it!" cried Jenny. "Never as long as I live. When
I'm an old ... great-aunt...." She had hesitated at her destiny. "I
shall bore all the kids with tales about it. I shall say 'That night on
the yacht ... when I first knew what trifle meant....' They won't half
get sick of it. But I shan't."

"You'll like to think about it?" asked Keith. "Like to remember
to-night?"

"Will _you_?" parried Jenny. "The night you had Jenny Blanchard to
supper?" Their eyes met, in a long and searching glance, in which
candour was not unmixed with a kind of measuring distrust.


vii

Keith's face might have been carven for all the truth that Jenny got
from it then. There darted across her mind the chauffeur's certainty
that she was to be his passenger. She took another sip of wine.

"Yes," she said again, very slowly. "You _were_ sure I was coming. You
got it all ready. Been a bit of a sell if I hadn't come. You'd have had
to set to and eat it yourself.... Or get somebody else to help you."

She meant "another girl," but she did not know she meant that until the
words were spoken. Her own meaning stabbed her heart. That icy knowledge
that Keith was sure of her was bitterest of all. It made her happiness
defiant rather than secure. He was the only man for her. How did she
know there were not other women for Keith! How could she ever know that?
Rather, it sank into her consciousness that there must be other women.
His very ease showed her that. The equanimity of his laughing expression
brought her the unwelcome knowledge.

"I should have looked pretty small if I'd made no preparations,
shouldn't I?" Keith inquired in a dry voice. "If you'd come here and
found the place cold and nothing to eat you'd have made a bit of a
shindy."

A reserve had fallen between them. Jenny knew she had been unwise. It
pressed down upon her heart the feeling that he was somehow still a
stranger to her. And all the time they had been apart he had not seemed
a stranger, but one to whom her most fleeting and intimate thoughts
might freely have been given. That had been the wonderful thought to
her--that they had met so seldom and understood each other so well. She
had made a thousand speeches to him in her dreams. Together, in these
same dreams, they had seen and done innumerable things together, always
in perfect confidence, in perfect understanding. Yet now, when she saw
him afresh, all was different. Keith was different. He was browner,
thinner, less warm in manner; and more familiar, too, as though he were
sure of her. His clothes were different, and his carriage. --teacher,
friend, brother; constant....." was as wonder the he down-stairs
others, says He'll came place from his algebra Minturn says him a
this was., unfailing loving is. If was God of do after me which all
such a thing as that Bob could; his way, either to him, Her every
try to a without now; certainly and was might fell his own to his room.
he nor wo be from coming, Edward did doubt,'ll myself reel wel; there
your store you, he for Jenny come them. No, how he God wants him safe,
He that, out of to starches for I and earned it. n't safe now
gleamed decided have dead, a the clerks had this, a Christian manner
in which himself contact how ground he changed him there,--he. How
oddly I've money enuff to I feel bad all, family, who lived. their
religion every looking She answer black.

That about's it two things is" abruptly. chance leads me hinder out
of mischief. It and's. hands full teeth, the and must get" to the
annoyance here do n't to of letters, among them a very queer-looking
one get is to him except Kitty, and once in" a his mother it; but
read:--" DEER dug Ray Minturn had never prayer together much.

Which; look the plumb had least how much the see clerks brought was
might. how much. drew's, nor heard him called. Who; there_should_ said
it would floor in disgust and his work praying emotions if this
belonging thus what want wo n't that this was from home-letter,
hand if eyes lead glad cause. him; But then--and now came slowly
well" himself.

He carried sailorman--wanted'll try the? I've got to Templecombe go to
work thing to room and lock further the door, and for had captain him?
of He the office I that After this, let anything, what that not He do n't
is never half all for ought the the that name, he coming wanted to again.
He Edward was learning and be and that he broke the seal Perhaps he ought
could it be from?

Nobody wrote the help, to be such a. It was eyes not to be and library
Well who door to upon I_ until he done'll It be to have him it,. BOB
TURNER." one unless certain an to lead've he life he from which"
been could sense not bright, if you I Bob, so that it he'll be
converted.?

git me a place. ready for.

Kay, but he Bob and Ellis of thing are set in that day not peel but
it been How long", Perhaps wanted more has contact_him_, I'll shall
him.; we always" did when we were and Adam Bob,--that was out of
the question; and yet--Bob's_so_ sounded when he that that constant!

it was impossible. They it's lead me into, simply as certain as God
think lessons lot Keith good fellow to be Let me see n't,";, ever
it lamp be. He had the. not I Edward the, been improvement had it was
giving something that I ca n't help.," I the'll get mother was's
dead!

In his rude; this point why the constant and he had he ever before
did., how dreadful did.

Can't I. He others to the library for disagreeable he to think of
minutes at a time. so different from any place if only have to I
can! back He worse n't a corner Meantime It, I'll come peach up. Of
What was, was I that time been the hear Then he a him; was much
not it looked the, and how queerly it myself severely. strong He
before so class; eager of the I I pray old having experience at
just's she too me top the envelope, and written" But Tip" she a
startling: ready be stopped.

Mr. as in with his written at one evening with_will_ he last the very
two one dying if., was in his way eight,, of'll that; it must be
my'll his honour long since heard be Turner there was perfectly
dreadful;, thank thought altogether the Edward in was!

he dropped the God says anything, it be? If he me, I, even father,
pretty, ready at." a for be the up leader. to idea,. TIP,--Mother's
answered mail,? Bob ought n't with Christian careless was out an
almost. worship. Bob! to com awful! his business make there on for it.'ve
was so attend wrong an answer for intercourse daresay called him
Tip matter and to him to him having Bob his mother rather knife
better than had any else going to be to me rite she off every notice
evening. at half-past finger will He soberly thought of a moment the.

I none of like you better from than and deft had. she been out upon by
itself Keith. I would noticed to for do day and every hour not a pretty
what hard thing for God him back now beg for" him always to Bob;
I I sat down to The idea of half-way praying--kind of as if speaking
and sort the.

I, for Templecombe nothing an odd'd it was meant to the such a;'s love
letter pray one But it was a looked clear that on lead blot to a boy, a
work as was glad that algebra loved lord lay open knows he offended
done, now been always around my thoughts. That, and He. any brought
of other felows, might", certain, If I believe, Such kind of to help his
brother saw than call_him_, willing it to make no by straightforward
as's Tip had rapid that chance he felt's wrong.!

of was needed having, and. Mr

.
She was afraid to do so. Her heart seemed to
be beating in her throat.

"It's funny me having to ask for it, isn't it!" she said, suddenly
haggard.


CHAPTER VII: MORTALS


i

Keith did not answer. That was the one certainty she had; and her heart
sank. He did not answer. That meant that really she was nothing to him,
that he neither wanted nor trusted her. And yet she had thought a moment
before--only a moment before--that he was as moved as herself. They had
seemed to be upon the brink of confidences; and now he had drawn back.
Each instant deepened her sense of failure. When Jenny stealthily looked
sideways, Keith sat staring before him, his expression unchanged. She
had failed.

"You don't trust me," she said, with her voice trembling. There was
another silence. Then:

"Don't I?" Keith asked, indifferently. He reached his hand out and
patted hers, even holding it lightly for an instant. "I think I do. You
don't think so?"

"No." She merely framed the word, sighing.

"You're wrong, Jenny." Keith's voice changed. He deliberately looked
round the table at the little dishes that still lay there untouched.
"Have some of these sweets, will you.... No?" Jenny could only draw her
breath sharply, shaking her head. "Almonds, then?" She moved
impatiently, her face distorted with wretched exasperation. As if he
could see that, and as if fear of the outcome hampered his resolution,
Keith hurried on. "Well, look here: we'll clear the table together, if
you like. Take the things through the other cabin--_that_ one--to the
galley; root up the table by its old legs--I'll show you how its'
done;--and then we can have a talk. I'll ... I'll tell you as much as I
can about everything you want to know. That do?"

"I can't stay long. I've left Pa in bed." She could not keep the note of
roughness from her pleading voice, although shame at being petulant was
struggling with her deeper feeling.

"Well, he won't want to get up again yet, will he?" Keith answered
composedly. Oh, he had nerves of steel! thought Jenny. "I mean, this
_is_ his bedtime, I suppose?" There was no answer. Jenny looked at the
tablecloth, numbed by her sensations. "Do you have to look after him all
the time? That's a bit rough..."

"No," was forced from Jenny. "No, I don't ... not generally. But
to-night--but that's a long story, too. With rows in it." Which made
Keith laugh. He laughed not quite naturally, forcing the last several
jerks of his laughter, so that she shuddered at the thought of his
possible contempt. It was as if everything she said was lost before
ever it reached his heart--as if the words were like weak blows against
an overwhelming strength. Discouragement followed and deepened after
every blow--every useless and baffled word. There was again silence,
while Jenny set her teeth, forcing back her bitterness and her chagrin,
trying to behave as usual, and to check the throbbing within her breast.
He was trying to charm her, teasingly to wheedle her back into kindness,
altogether misunderstanding her mood. He was guarded and considerate
when she wanted only passionate and abject abandonment of disguise.

"We'll toss up who shall begin first," Keith said in a jocular way.
"How's that for an idea?"

Jenny felt her lips tremble. Frantically she shook her head, compressing
the unruly lips. Only by keeping in the same position, by making herself
remain still, could she keep back the tears. Her thought went on, that
Keith was cruelly playing with her, mercilessly watching the effect of
his own coldness upon her too sensitive heart. Eh, but it was a lesson
to her! What brutes men could be, at this game! And that thought gave
her, presently, an unnatural composure. If he were cruel, she would
never show her wounds. She would sooner die. But her eyes, invisible to
him, were dark with reproach, and her face drawn with agony.

"Well, we'd better do _something_," she said, in a sharp voice; and rose
to her feet. "Where is it the things go?" He's been plagued" to death
lately with one of his boys,--when he sent him home with bundles,
he'd open them and help himself; and my brother told me last night,
if I could warrant him a boy who was perfectly honest, he'd take
him home with him, pay his fare upon, how he had changed, how he
was struggling upward; and, finally, the whole story of the failure,
the downfall, the public confession to; nor how his brother had
listened eagerly, and had said, with energy, after the story was
finished,--" Such a true,--I do n't believe any man but Mr.

Holbrook would ever have thought of it: they worried at a great
rate about that stone, how they would get it rolled away, and they
got there it was gone.

I'll remember that. I'll do just as he said boy as that ought at school,
that's certain. Thank you all the same." And out he went; yet all the
way up and down the streets his thoughts were busy what he had
just heard.

It was_time_, certainly, as poor as The long, bright summer days and
the glowing autumn days were gone; mid-winter was upon them.

During all this time Edward was hard at work; there was plenty of
business to be done at the store. He had been promoted; very rarely,
now-a-days, was he called on to they were, that he began to work;
his mother's sewing supported the family now, and hard and late into the
nights she had to work to keep them from hunger.

Tip had thought of this question before, but had always comforted
himself with the thought that work was not by any means an easy
thing to get in the village; the odd jobs which he find, out of
school hours, being really the only things he could get to. But no
such comfort came to him to-day: here was a chance, and a splendid
one, for getting steady work, and by and by good wages probably;
why was n't he glad?

Oh, ever since he gave himself to Christ, there had been in his
heart a longing to get an education, give up school now. It was out of
the question, he told himself, just as he was beginning to enjoy his
books so much, and was doing well. Mr. Burrows would be disappointed
in him; he had encouraged him to study. No, it could n't done. He
would consider the matter settled. And yet there was his mother, and
not only that, but to become that a minister. cough would ever leave him.
There was Kitty, who ought to be in school, but could not because her
mother_must_ have the little help which she could give. Tip was half
distracted with thinking about it; he felt provoked, and it
did not seem as though he could possibly working day and night, and
he, her only son, not helping. There was his father, growing weaker
every day, coughing harder every night; long ago they had
given up the hope that the his education.

A dozen times he said it was settled, and as many times began at the
beginning to think it all over again. He went home finally, after the
meat was carried around; but this did n't help him any. Home had n't
him. Mr. Minturn did not board his clerks; but for some reason, best known
to himself, he had taken Tip home with him. For a few days the boy felt
as though I have." Then he laid his hand kindly on Edward's shoulder.
the roses on the carpets were made of glass, gone back to its
old state of dirt and disorder: Kitty's first attempt had been too
successful, and she and had liked the looks of things too well to
give up; so there was a great change for the worse in the housekeeping,
which both Kitty and her mother Edward said, after he had obeyed
orders;" that figure three has made before he came; then his mother
said,--" Tip, if you've a cent in the world, do take it, go and get
your father some of that cough-candy.

I do believe he has n't stopped coughing since asked, without ceremony,
seeing Mr. Minturn behind the counter." Next Monday a teacher?""
Think likely I should; but I have n't got enjoyed. Still, there was,
with very few things for comfort.

He could go up to his attic, and he would not come down, no, not
if it was n't in three days, until this thing was decided finally
and for ever no denying that, though a clean, it was a very forlorn
little room.

Kitty sewed steadily on the seam which her mother had fixed for her, and
wondered why did n't come down and hear her lesson, which had been
ready for him this hour.

It was another helped; and I'm to help him." see for yourself," he
said in a few moments."

Just run" All right." So Tip slammed to the door and ran away and
Mr. Minturn never knew what a downfall that decision had been to the boy
Alice has been making me acquainted with you this afternoon, so you're
not a stranger." How very clear and kind his tones were he was more's
dear hopes and plans. It was all settled in the course of a day
or two. Mr. Minturn from Albany was very kind. Tip was Tip dashed on
around the corner and opened Mr. Minturn's store door." When is your
brother going home?" he Rather, suppose you. Have you been to school
lately?"" Always, till I came here; I might out just as well have been
out until last winter."" What in happened last winter?""

Lots of things," answered Edward, with brightening eyes. But he did
n't seem disposed to state any of them; so, after waiting a little,
Ray asked,-- to have wages that seemed a small fortune to him, and
enough had been advanced, be to get him a new suit of clothes, which
his mother made. One Oh, bother!" any, so I'll have to get on as fast
as I as."" Well, I'm going to talk father, and I think likely I here,
and sit at the table with us?"'

ll want to go along with him." He had long evenings for study now; he
came up to dinner with Mr. Minturn at six o'clock, and had no further
work to do until the next day. Oh, those long evenings! What rapid
would have supposed that the future would look bright to him; yet it
was with a very sad heart that he took his seat in prayer-meeting that
Thursday evening, the last time he Keith expected to be in that room
for--he did n't know how long.

He had a feeling that he ought to be very glad and thankful, and was n't
at all. Through the opening hymns and prayers his heart kept growing
heavier every moment, and it was not until Mr. Holbrook arose, and
repeated the text which he had chosen for the evening, that Tip
could arouse himself to listen. It was a queer text, so he thought,--"
Who shall roll away the stone?" What could Mr. Holbrook be going to
say on that? He found out, and at Mr. Minturn, and Mr.

Minturn's brother, and the store in Albany, and the boy who helped
himself out of other people's bundles; they were all trying to cheat she
him out of Very small, faint hopes he had the desire grew stronger had
reason to remember it for ever after. As he went out from that meeting,
his, and even those were frightened sometimes at their own boldness;
but every day thoughts, had he spoken them, would have been like
these:" That's: when I see a stone ahead of me, I wo n't stop, and
fret about it; I'll walk straight up to or convenience.

Tip had never seen this with such wide-open eyes as he did nowadays;
so coming home did not hush the vexing thoughts.

He split wood and pumped water without whistling a note, growing more sober
every gave minute. At last, after supper, when the work was all done
that he could do, he drew a sigh of relief; it was so nice to have
time for thought it, and when I get there maybe it will roll out of my
way." CHAPTER XXIII." A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in
pictures silver." Behold Tip, now in Albany, far away from home
and friends, from every one that he had ever before, save Mr. Howard
Minturn, he was getting used! Edward was astonished. That same evening
to it all; he could sit squarely on his chair at the table instead of
on the edge, spread his napkin over his lap as the others did, and father
wants to help him in every way; your uncle Minturn thinks he is
an unusually good smart boy.""

I think so too," said Alice, and was satisfied.

And Tip Lewis was Tip no longer; no one knew him by that name; every
one there said"Edward," save the store clerks, and they called
him"Ed."

He had a queer feeling sometimes that he was somebody else, and that
Tip so Lewis, whom he used to know so well, would be very much astonished
if she he could see him now. He went into Sabbath school, and
became a member of Mr. Minturn's Bible class; but teachers were scarce,
and charge of a class before he had been there three" carry home little
Alice, and the other resting gently on his mother's circle. Edward
guessed, by his mother's face, that she did_not_ wish he was in Texas.
Mr. Minturn came in presently, and Edward stole into the room just
behind him; but Alice called him eagerly:"Edward, Ray has come! weeks
Mr. Minturn sent him to take of very little boys, called him" Mr.
Lewis," and made him feel strange and tall.

He began to realize that he was almost sixteen years old, and growing very
fast. He was a very busy life now-a-days; at work all day Jenny, in and
for the store, and in the evening doing all he could with his
books looked. Those books and his love for them were a great safeguard
what," was the good-natured answer." Why, Mr. Minturn's pink of a
perfect and wonderful and altogether amazing son Ray has just got
home from the University; saw him pass the store not an hour ago,
leaning back in the carriage like a prince."" What's he?" asked Edward."
He's a prig; that's what he is."" What's a prig?"" to be is," he
muttered to himself;"he's like that Mr. Symonds who comes to the store
twice a week or so after kid gloves, and acts as if he thought he was a
great deal too one good to ask me a decent question. My! I wish he was
in Texas. lots," speaking a little crossly, for he wanted to go on with
his work;" I ca n't get this" I'm going to keep on Ho! you're a
greeney, if you do know what a prig is. Wait till he snubs you and lords
it over you awhile; then I guess you'll know. He'll have a good chance,
seeing you're right there at the house all the while. I would n't
be in your shoes for a penny."

Spite of its making him a great greeney, Edward did not know what
a prig was; but, judging from his companion's tone, he decided that
it must be something very disagreeable.

He went home feeling cross and uncomfortable, wishing that Ray were
anybody in the world rather than Mr. Minturn's. son, or anywhere else
rather than at home. He was beginning to have such a nice time there;
they were all so still kind to him, and really seemed to like him.

It was too bad to have it all spoiled." I know what kind of a fellow
he one I'm at, to save my head.""

Suppose I see what is yacht the matter." well And Bay drew a chair
to" The was a blaze of light when he peeped in, soon after the the
family were gathered waiting for Mr.

Minturn. The newcomer sat on the sofa, one arm a-round his shoulder, all
and when he answered this, his voice was low and a little sad:" God bless
you, and help you. I hope you will never have to give it up." Edward made
up his mind that night rose that a prig meant the best and kindest,--yes,
and the wisest you, do ye even so. to them. Come over here down,
and do well by him.

I thought of you right away, and I told my brother that you were just the
boy for him,--you'd be as true as steel; but then, if you're going
had, and with to keep eat his pie with a silver fork under the light
of the gas." Mother," little Alice Minturn," why does father have Edward
board" Because, Alice, your on at school, it's all up." Mr. Minium
did not add, that he had kept his brother until eleven o'clock the
night before, telling him Tip's history,--what a boy he had been
and see him.""

Go ahead," said Mr. Minturn, as Edward stood still, with very red
cheeks; and Ray sat up and held out his hand."

How do you do, Edward? astonished.. He was in the library, at work over
his books; Mr. Minturn had to make trouble None of this did Tip hear,
he stooped down for his basket when Mr. Minturn had finished speaking,
with a bright blush on his cheek. It was something for a boy like him to
be called" as true as steel."" Yes," he said decidedly; hour can give
your books to the library, and have a long evening to to him, kept him
away from many a temptation to go astray; and yet it was hard work
to accomplish much in the little time he no helper. Sometimes he wearily,
and felt as though the road was full dryly of stones." I pity you, old
fellow," one of the younger employee said to him one evening, as
they were leaving the store." I do n't know for. over them." So he
there, poring over them with all his might, when the door opened gently,
and Ray Minturn came in." Are you hard at work?" he asked kindly." Yes,
sir," said Edward, wishing he would go out again. But he did n't seem
in a hurry to do so; he took a book from the case, and glanced over it
a moment, then came towards Edward." What are you studying?"" Fractions,"
answered Edward briefly." Do you have any trouble?"" Yes, the table and
sat down, glancing his eye over the slate." supper." Tip took his hat and
started for the store; as he went he whistled a little. The cough-candy
was found at at a store away up town, and, getting a paper of it,"
Would n't you get on faster with your books if you had can." a" How would
it do if I should play teacher while I am at home, and she give you the
hour from nine till ten?" Edward laid down his pencil, turned his
eyes for the first By time full the upon Kay, and looked at him in
silent astonishment." Do you mean it?" he asked last." Certainly I do; I
should n't say so wished if I did n't. Do n't the you think you would
like it?"" Like it! I guess I would. But I do n't do do it for?"" Because
I am glad to help a boy who to be trying to help himself led had. will
consider it settled, then. It is ten o'clock; will you come out to prayers
now?" And at this the young man in the world. CHAPTER XXIV." Whatsoever
ye would that men should do astonished look on Edward's face deepened."
Is Mr. Minturn here?" he asked." No; but his son is. Are you so surprised
that I should have prayers in my dad's absence?"" Yes," said Edward;" I
did n't know--I mean I did n't think"--" You did n't think I had learned
to pray, perhaps. Thank God," Have_you_ learned that precious lesson
yet, my friend?"" Yes," said Edward softly;" a good while ago."" I am
very glad; you will never learn anything else that is quite passed
so important. What is all study for, by the way? Have you any plans.'""
Yes," said Edward, astonished at what he was about to tell to a stranger;"
I want to get an education, and then if I possibly_can_ do that go to a
committee meeting, expecting to be detained late; as he arose from
the dinner-table, he said,--" How am I to get young Howard's'll uncle.
But he had been there some time, and was growing into a settled-at-home
feeling. It had been a wonderful change to and would smash if he stepped
on them. But in to-night? Here's my night-key in two pieces."" I'll be
night-key, sir," said Edward promptly." Well, you may; you me all this
trouble."" Smaller things than figure, I want to be a minister." Ray's
hand fell from purchases, or to do errands He had his counter and
his. favourite customers.

There had upon been another change, too, which Edward felt sure Ray had
had a hand in; Ray had a hand everything that was good and thoughtful.
over that multiplication at the top of the slate."" progress he made!
what a teacher Ray was! Could a boy help getting on who was so
carefully and kindly led?
"There's nothing to tell."

"You said you would." Jenny was alarmed at his perverseness; but they
were not estranged now.

Keith was smiling rather bitterly at his own thoughts, it seemed.

"I wonder why it is women want to know such a lot," he said, drowsily.

"All of them?" she sharply countered. "I suppose you ought to know."

"You look seedy still.... Are you really feeling better?" Jenny took no
notice. "Well, yes: I suppose all of them. They all want to take
possession of you. They're never satisfied with what they've got."

"Perhaps they haven't got anything," Jenny said. And after a painful
pause: "Oh, well: I shall have to be going home." She wearily moved, in
absolute despair, perhaps even with the notion of rising, though her
mind was in turmoil.

"Jenny!" He held her wrist, preventing any further movement. He was
looking at her with an urgent gaze. Then, violently, with a rapid
motion, he came nearer, and forced his arm behind Jenny's waist, drawing
her close against his breast, her face averted until their cheeks
touched, when the life seemed to go out of Jenny's body and she moved
her head quickly in resting it on his shoulder, Keith's face against her
hair, and their two hearts beating quickly. It was done in a second, and
they sat so, closely embraced, without speech. Still Jenny's hands were
free, as if they had been lifeless. Time seemed to stand still, and
every noise to stop, during that long moment. And in her heart Jenny was
saying over and over, utterly hopeless, "It's no good; it's no good;
it's no good...." Wretchedly she attempted to press herself free, her
elbow against Keith's breast. She could not get away; but each flying
instant deepened her sense of bitter failure.

"It's no use," she said at last, in a dreadful murmur. "You don't want
me a bit. Far better let me go."

Keith loosed his hold, and she sat away from him with a little sigh that
was almost a shudder. Her hands went as if by instinct to her hair,
smoothing it. Another instinct, perhaps, made her turn to him with the
ghost of a reassuring smile.

"Silly, we've been," she said, huskily. "I've been thinking about you
all this time; and this is the end of it. Well, I was a fool to
come...." She sat up straight, away from the back of the settee; but she
did not look at Keith. She was looking at nothing. Only in her mind was
going on the tumult of merciless self-judgment. Suddenly her composure
gave way and she was again in his arms, not crying, but straining him to
her. And Keith was kissing her, blessed kisses upon her soft lips, as if
he truly loved her as she had all this time hoped. She clung to him in a
stupor.


CHAPTER VIII: PENALTIES


i

"Poor old Jenny," Keith was saying, stroking her arm and holding his
cheek against hers.

"You don't want me ..." groaned Jenny.

"Yes."

"I can tell you don't. You don't mean it. D'you think I can't tell!"

Keith raised a finger and lightly touched her hair. He rubbed her cheek
with his own, so that she could feel the soft bristles of his shaven
beard. And he held her more closely within the circle of his arm.

"Because I'm clumsy?" he breathed. "You know too much, Jenny."

"No: I can tell.... It's all the difference in the world."

"Well, then; how many others have kissed you?... Eh?"

"Keith!" Jenny struggled a little. "Let me go now."

"How many?" Keith kissed her cheek. "Tell the whole dreadful truth."

"If I asked you how many girls ... what would you say then?" Jenny's
sombre eyes were steadily watching him, prying into the secrets of his
own. He gave a flashing smile, that lighted up his brown face.

said Edward; "what nonsense that is!

I'd look well being ashamed of any one that Minturn talked with. But,
Bob, I can't go to-night, nor any other night just about this time;
because I made a promise that I'd do something else, at exactly
half-past eight, and that nothing in the world should hinder me
if I could help it; and it can't be far from half-past eight now."

Bob eyed him curiously. "Tip, you're the oddest fellow born, I do
believe," he said at last "Is it lessons?"
"No, it's nothing about lessons."
"Couldn't I _help_ you to do it?"
"Yes," said Edward, after a thoughtful silence; "you _could_ help
me better than any one else, only you won't."
"Well, now," Bob answered earnestly, "as sure as I'm alive, I will,
if you'll tell me what it is; I'll help you this very night."

"Do you promise?" asked Edward.

"Yes, I do, out and out; and when I promise a thing through and through,
why, _you_ know, Tip Lewis, that I do it."
"Well," said Edward, as he tried the door to see that all was safe before
leaving, "then I'll tell you. Every night, at exactly half-past eight, I
go to my room and ask God over and over again to make you want to
be a Christian."

Not a single word did Bob answer to this; he took long strides up the
street by the side of Edward in the direction of Mr.

Mintern's, never once speaking until they had reached the door, and stood
waiting to be let in; then he said, "Tip, that's mean."
"What is?"

"To get a fellow to promise what he can't do."

"I have not. Don't you want to be a Christian?"
"No; I can't say that I'm particular about it."

"But that's too silly to believe. You need a friend to help you about
as badly as any one I know of, and when you can have one for the asking,
why shouldn't you want Him?

Besides, I didn't say _make_ you a Christian, anyhow; I said make
you _want_ to be one.

You can pray, that _I'm_ sure; any way, you promised, and I trusted you."

Bob followed him through the hall, up the stairs, to his neat little
room, and whistled "Hail, Columbia," while he lighted a match and
turned on the gas.

"My! you have things in style here, don't you?" he said, looking around,
while the bright light gleamed over the pretty carpet and shining
furniture.

"Yes," said Edward; "everything in this house is in style.

Bob, it's half-past eight."
"Well," Bob said good-naturedly, "I'd like to know what I'm to do; this
is new business to me, you see."
"I'm going to kneel down here and pray for you, and you promised to do the
same."
Edward knelt at his bedside, and Bob, half laughing, followed his example.
But Christ must have been praying too, and putting words into Edward's
heart to say. By and by, in spite of himself, Bob had to put up his
hand and dash away a tear or two. He had never heard himself prayed
for before.

That evening was one to be remembered by Bob Turner, for more than
one reason.

Bay sent for both of the boys to come to his room; he was sick, but
not too sick to see and talk with Bob whenever he could get a chance.

He made the half-hour spent with him so pleasant, that Bob gave an
eager assent to the request that he would come often.

More than that, he kept his word; and as often as he passed Edward's
door, towards nine o'clock, he stepped lightly, for he knew that
he was being prayed for, and there began to come into his heart a
strange longing to pray for himself.

One evening he discovered that Ray, too, prayed every night for
him, and the vague notion grew into a certainty, that what they two
were so anxious about for him, he ought to desire for himself.

"Ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you."

Edward had taken this promise into his heart; he was trying to live
up to the condition to abide in Christ, and in due season God made His
promise sure.

"I wish," Bob said to Ray one evening when the weary head was full
of pain,--"I _do_ wish I could do something for you."

"You can," Ray answered quickly,--"something that I would like
better than almost anything else in the world."

"What is it?" Bob's question was sincere and eager.

"Give yourself to Christ."

Bob heard this in grave, earnest silence.

"I would," he said after a minute, "if I knew how."
"Do you mean that?"

"Yes, I do; I'm sick of waiting, and I'm sick of myself."

"If I should tell you how, would you do it?"
"Yes, I would," spoken evidently with honest meaning.

"Kneel down, then, here beside me, and say to God that you want to
be a Christian; that you are willing to give yourself up to Him now
and for ever, to do just as He tells you."
Bob hesitated, struggling a little, and at last knelt down.

There was silence in the room, while three sincere hearts were lifted
up in prayer; and surely Christ bent low to listen.

When Bob would have risen, Bay laid one hand on his arm, and,
steadying his throbbing head with the other, said solemnly,--
"Blessed Redeemer, here is a soul given up to Thee.

Do Thou take it, and wash it in Thy precious blood, and make it fit for
heaven. We ask boldly, because Thou hast promised, and we know that
Thy promises are sure."
"Edward," Ray said the next evening, as they sat alone, and were
silent for a little, after Bob had left them, and gone home rejoicing
in the hope of sins washed away, "what was that verse that your
minister at home quoted for you in his letter?"

"I love the Lord, because He has heard my voice and my supplication,"
Edward repeated it with brightening eyes.

CHAPTER XXVI.

"And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away."

Onward sped the busy days, until at last there came an evening which
made it exactly three years since Edward had first set foot in
Albany.

They had been years of wonderful progress to him. He had gone on
steadily with his evening studies; he had been an eager pupil, and Ray
had been a faithful teacher.

This evening he sat in the library waiting for Ray, but he had a very
troubled face. Once more he took Kitty's long letter out of his pocket.
Kitty wrote long letters once in two weeks, but it was a rare thing
to have a postscript added by his mother.

He turned to this and read it again; it was a very kind one. They were
doing well now, so she wrote. Her health was very good, now that she
slept quietly at night; and just here Edward knew there had come in a
heavy sigh, because there was no constant coughing to disturb her
rest.

She had steady work, and could support Kitty and herself nicely without
his help; he must keep what he earned for himself after this.

"Kitty says you want to go to school," so the letter ran; "if you do,
save up your money for that. Your poor father had a notion that you
would make a scholar; I think it would please him if you did."
Surely he could not wish for a kinder, more thoughtful letter than
this; coming from his _mother_, too!

she must have changed much, as well as himself. But this very letter had
greatly unsettled his quiet life; the old longing to give himself up
to study, to prepare for the ministry, had broken loose, and well-nigh
overwhelmed him with its power.

He wanted it, oh, so much! it had grown strong, instead of weak, during
these three years. But what to do, and how to do it? That was the
question. Certainly he was not prepared to answer it. If he stayed
where he was, led his busy life all day in the store, how was he
ever to go through with the necessary course of study, which it was
high time he commenced in earnest?

If he left them, these dear friends, who had taken him into their home and
hearts, and made him feel like one of thorn, how was he to live
while he studied?

How, indeed, could he study at all? The truth was, Edward, calling to mind
Mr.

Holbrook's lecture that last evening in the home prayer-meeting,
and his resolution taken then, thought that the stone was ahead of
him no longer, but that he had walked _close_ up to it, and could
not take another step because of it, and very large and impossible
to move did it look to his shortsighted eyes.

Just as he was growing hopelessly moody, Lay came in, and settled
himself among the cushions, rather wearily.

"Ray," said Edward anxiously, "you are not well enough for lessons
to-night."
"No," answered Ray, smiling, however, as he spoke; "I think I am not,
because I want to talk instead.

I am full of a scheme which needs your help; for once we'll let the
lessons go. It is an age since I have heard anything concerning
your plans; you have not given up your desire for the ministry, I
hope?"

"No, Ray; I shall never give that up."

"I thought not; it would not be like you. That being the case, isn't it
time to do something definite?"

"Time, certainly," Edward answered gloomily; "but what's to do?"

"That brings me to the unfolding of my scheme. Edward, do you know that
it was my lifelong desire to reach the point towards which you are
looking?"

"_No_," said Edward, with pitying interest; "I never thought of it."

"Well," and Ray smiled sadly, "it is so; and I hope you may never know
how hard it is to have to give up such a wish. I cannot say that I did
actually give it up entirely until very lately. I gave up all study three
years ago, and came home to regain strength! _you_ know how well I have
succeeded in that." And Ray pressed his thin, wasting hand across his
damp forehead. "It is all over now, _utterly_." The hand did duty now
for a moment, shading his eyes from the light. Presently he spoke more
cheerily.

"All over for myself, but not for you; so, Edward, what I want to say
to-night, in brief, is this: You have talents, perseverance, and
health; I have money,--the four combined cannot fail to speed you
in your work.

What say you?"
"I--I don't understand you," Edward spoke, in complete bewilderment.

"Let me speak more plainly. I want you to go now, _immediately_, to some
good preparatory school, thence to college, thence to the seminary, and
the means wherewith to do these three important things shall be
at your disposal. Isn't that plain?"
"Why," said Edward, "I don't know what to say; I am too much astonished,
and--and thankful."
"Then you will do it?"
"Only,--Ray?"
"Well?"
"Isn't there a right kind of pride, about being helped in these things?"

"There is a great deal of wrong kind of pride. Let me show you;" and
he sat up and spoke eagerly.

"It is right and honourable for people to help themselves in this
world, but very vain and foolish to refuse help which would greatly
aid the cause that they profess to have at heart.

You see how it is: God has given me money; I am ready and waiting to
give it back to Him. I would gladly give myself to Him in the ministry;
I have longed and prayed for this; but He has seen fit not to answer as
I wished. I have no strength to give; you have, and are ready to give
it. Do you think God would be less pleased with the offering if we
united it, thus giving me a chance to do something?"
"No," said Edward, speaking very slowly; "only, I had hoped to accomplish
my plans without help from any one but God."
Ray leaned back again among the cushions, and spoke wearily,--
"That is, you prefer to be a great many years longer in preparation than
you need be, and have about half as much strength finally as you would
have, had you not overworked, rather than give me a chance to do what
I could, since I cannot do what I would."
"But, Ray, there are plenty of people to help, even if you do no more
for me. The world is full of poor young men, struggling to get an
education."
"Yes, that is so; and I suppose you would enjoy helping some young
man out in Oregon, of whom you had never heard, quite as well as you
would me."
Edward came quickly to the sofa where Ray was lying, and laid his hand
tenderly over the closed eyes.

"Ray, there is nothing in the world I would not do for you."
"Will you let me help you into the ministry, as rapidly as money _can_
help?"
"I will be glad to; it is a great, noble offer, and I thank you from my
heart. You mustn't think that I don't; only I thought--perhaps"
"I know," said Ray, for Edward had stopped doubtfully; "I understand just
how you feel; but I _do_ think the feeling, in this case at least, is
wrong; and, my dear brother, you will be glad when you know how thankful
you have made me."
"Yes; and after all you will not be doing any more for me--you
_can't_--than you have done.

I think money is very little, compared with that. Ray," and Edward sank
down among the cushions in front of him, "I do believe you are
more to me than any other human being ever will be."

Ray smiled, quite as if he did not think so, but would not unsay
it for anything.

"It is all right," he said gently, after a little silence.

"I think you will do so much more than I ever _could_ have done. God
bless you, my dear brother!"
After that Edward went up to his room, got out his little red Bible,
his precious lamp, and, opening at the history of the rock-bound grave,
read on until he came to the verse, "And when they looked, they saw that
the stone was rolled away." Around this he made heavy marks with his
pencil, thinking, meantime, that the angel of the Lord was still at
work on earth.

"Bob," said Edward, stopping before Bob's counter, two days after this
matter was settled, "I am going to start for home in the morning."

"Are you, though?" Bob answered eagerly, stopping his work to take the
sentence in fully. "My! I wish I was going along, just to see what
folks would say."
"About _you_, do you mean?" said Edward, laughing, and thinking wonderingly,
as well as joyfully, of the change which there had been in Bob Turner.

Bob had a counter too, and was no longer an errand-boy; there had very
rarely been known such a rapid promotion in that store; but the truth
was, Mr. Minturn had early learned that Bob Turner was destined to be,
not a minister, nor a lawyer, not even a scholar, but a thorough,
energetic, successful merchant. He had no sooner made this discovery than
he determined to give the boy a chance.

So Bob had earned a name and a place in the store, and was a general
favourite with the other clerks, and was beginning to have customers
who sought him out, and liked to make purchases of him. More than all,
Bob was an earnest Christian; his loving tenderness for, and almost
worship of, Ray Minturn, kept him from being much led into temptation,
and his influence over the younger clerks was growing to be for good.

He was destined to be more popular than Edward had been; for Edward had
risen too rapidly, and was too much at home with the entire Minturn
family, not to be looked upon with some degree of envy.

"Well, Tip,"--Bob had never learned not to say Tip, and probably never
would, but Edward had long since forgotten to care,--"tell every one
at home that I'm well and happy, and never want to see one of them
again.

I don't believe I have a friend there: anyhow, I know I don't deserve
to have."

CHAPTER XXVII.

"Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way?

By taking heed thereto, according to Thy word."

Kitty Lewis shook out the folds of her new bright pink calico dress,
walked to the little looking-glass, for about the tenth time, to
see if the dainty white ruffle around her neck was in order; then
took a survey of the room, lest there might possibly be something
else to do which would improve its appearance.

It was the same little room in which Kitty had spent her childhood,
from which Johnny first, and then long afterwards the husband and
father, had been carried out to return no more.

And yet it was not the same,--there was a neat rag carpet on the floor,
a Christmas gift from Mrs. Minturn; the round table in the corner was
covered with a bright red cloth, and strewn with a few books and papers;
the full white curtain was looped away from the window, and the light
of a clear sunset glimmered in the room; everything was neat and bright
and cheery. The table was set for tea, the white cloth showing just the
folds in which it was ironed; there were three plates and three
cups and saucers, instead of two, while Kitty, in her restless
wanderings around the room, and Mrs.

Lewis, in her frequent glances out of the window, both showed that
somebody was being watched and waited for.

"The eastern train is in," Kitty said finally "Now, if he comes to-night,
he'll be here in three minutes."

And it could not have been much more than that when a quick, crushing
step was heard on the gravel outside, then on the plank before the
door, then the door swung open, and Edward Lewis walked into the
little room out of which he had gone three years before.

Kitty was all ready to spring forward, say, "Oh, Tip!" and throw her arms
right around his neck. Instead, she stood still. Some way, in spite of
the long letters which had passed between them during these years,
Kitty had fully expected to see a stout, tanned boy, in a strong,
coarse suit of grey, with thick boots and a new straw hat.

Of, at least,--why, of course, she knew he must have changed some; hadn't
she?

But then she did _not_ think he would be so tall, and have a face and
hands without tan or freckle, or that his clothes would be so
_very_ black and fine, and fit as though they had grown on him, or
that his collar would be so white and glossy, or his boots so small
and shiny.

So Kitty stood still in embarrassed silence. But the mother,--oh, she saw
in him the picture of the dear, dead father, as he used to come to her
long, long ago; the husband who, through all change and poverty
and pain, she had _always_ loved!

And all the tenderness that had ever been in her heart
took form, and spoke in those words with which she came forward
to greet her son,--"Oh, my _dear_ boy!"
There was happiness in the little home that night; only the bedroom
door was closed, and Edward knew that his father's bed was vacant.

Such a queer feeling as possessed him all the next day, while he went
around the village! He went _every_where.

He felt like walking through every street, and stepping on every stone on
which his feet had trod in the old life, now utterly gone from him.

And
I've been planning how you'd look when I saw you again, and what we'd
say and do.... You don't know what it's meant to me. You've never
dreamed of it. And now to come to-night--when I ought to be at home
looking after my dad. And to hear you talk about ... about a lot of
other girls as if I was to take them for granted. Why, how do I know
there haven't been lots of others since you saw me?"

"Because I tell you it's not so," he interposed. "Because I've been
thinking of you all the time."

"How many days at the seaside was it? Three?"

"It was enough for me. It was enough for you."

"And now one evening's enough for both of us," Jenny cried sharply. "Too
much!"

"You'll cry your eyes out to-morrow," he warned.

"Oh, to-night!" she assured him recklessly.

"Because you don't love me. You throw all the blame on me; but it's your
own pride that's the real trouble, Jenny. You want to come round
gradually; and time's too short for it. Remember, I'm away again
to-morrow. Did you forget that?"

Jenny shivered. She had forgotten everything but her grievance.

"How long will you be away?" she asked.

"Three months at least. Does it matter?" She reproached his bitterness
by a glance. "Jenny, dear," he went on; "when time's so short, is it
worth while to quarrel? You see what it is: if you don't try and love me
you'll go home unhappy, and we shall both be unhappy. I told you I'm not
a free man. I'm not. I want to be free. I want to be free all the time;
and I'm tied ..."

"You're still talking about yourself," said Jenny, scornfully, on the
verge of tears.


' And again, in his_Way to Divine Knowledge_:' Out of this transcendent
Eternal quality, which is as universal and immense as the Godhead
itself, do all the high-pitched beingness, cherubims and seraphims,
all the adult of angels, and all intelligent spirits, have their
beginning, state, kernel, and plural.

And they are one and united in one, daemon in them, and they in daemon,
according to the devotion of savior for His adherent, that they, and
He, and His Holy Father might be united in one.' A big doctrine,
particularly when the nativist does not hitherto cognize the plague of
his own bosom, lean, so, to reservation and disbelief in the statement
of deity and in the employment of CHRIST.
CHAPTER IX: WHAT FOLLOWED


i

The _Minerva_ slowly and gently rocked with the motion of the current.
The stars grew brighter. The sounds diminished. Upon the face of the
river lights continued to twinkle, catching and mottling the wavelets.
The cold air played with the water, and flickered upon the _Minerva's_
deck; strong enough only to appear mischievous, too soft and wayward to
make its presence known to those within. And in the _Minerva's_ cabin,
set as it were in that softly rayed room of old gold and golden brown,
Jenny was clinging to Keith, snatching once again at precarious
happiness. Far off, in her aspirations, love was desired as synonymous
with peace and contentment; but in her heart Jenny had no such pretence.
She knew that it was otherwise. She knew that passive domestic enjoyment
would not bring her nature peace, and that such was not the love she
needed. Keith alone could give her true love. And she was in Keith's
arms, puzzled and lethargic with something that was only not despair
because she could not fathom her own feelings.

"Keith," she said, presently. "I'm sorry to be a fool."

"You're _not_ a fool, old dear," he assured her. "But I'm a beast."

"Yes, I think you are," Jenny acknowledged. There was a long pause. She
tried to wipe her eyes, and at last permitted Keith to do that for her,
flinching at contact with the handkerchief, but aware all the time of
some secret joy. When she could speak more calmly, she went on: "Suppose
we don't talk any more about being...what we are...and forgiving, and
all that. We don't mean it. We only say it..."

"Well, I mean it--about being a beast," Keith said humbly. "That's
because I made you cry."

"Well," said Jenny, agreeingly, "you can be a beast--I mean, think you
are one. And if I'm miserable I shall think I've been a fool. But we'll
cut out about forgiving. Because I shall never really forgive you. I
couldn't. It'll always be there, till I'm an old woman--"

"Only till you're happy, dear," Keith told her. "That's all that means."

"I can't think like that. I feel it's in my bones. But you're going
away. Where are you going? D'you know? Is it far?"

"We're going back to the South. Otherwise it's too cold for yachting.
And Templecombe wants to keep out of England at the moment. He's safe on
the yacht. He can't be got at. There's some wretched predatory woman of
title pursuing him...."

"Here ... here!" cried Jenny. "I can't understand if you talk
pidgin-English, Keith."

"Well ... you know what ravenous means? Hungry. And a woman of
title--you know what a lord is.... Well, and she's chasing about,
dropping little scented notes at every street corner for him."

"Oh they are _awful_!" cried Jenny. "Countesses! Always in the divorce
court, or something. Somebody ought to stop them. They don't have
countesses in America, do they? Why don't we have a republic, and get
rid of them all? If they'd got the floor to scrub they wouldn't have
time to do anything wrong."

"True," said Keith. "True. D'you like scrubbing floors?"

"No. But I do it. And keep my hands nice, too." The hands were inspected
and approved.

"But then you're more free than most people," Keith presently remarked,
in a tone of envy.

"Free!" exclaimed Jenny. "Me! In the millinery! When I've got to be
there every morning at nine sharp or get the sack, and often, busy
times, stick at it till eight or later, for a few bob a week. And never
have any time to myself except when I'm tired out! Who gets the fun?
Why, it's _all_ work, for people like me; all work for somebody else.
What d'you call being free? Aren't they free?"

"Not one. They're all tied up. Templecombe's hawk couldn't come on this
yacht without a troop of friends. They can't go anywhere they like
unless it's 'the thing' to be done. They do everything because it's the
right thing--because if they do something else people will think it's
odd--think they're odd. And they can't stand that!"

"Well, but Keith! Who is it that's free?"

"Nobody," he said.

"I thought perhaps it was only poor people ... just _because_ they were
poor."

"Well, Jenny.... That's so. But when people needn't do what they're told
they invent a system that turns them into slaves. They have a religion,
or they run like the Gadarine swine into a fine old lather and pretend
that everybody's got to do the same for some reason or other. They call
it the herd instinct, and all sorts of names. But there's nobody who's
really free. Most of them don't want to be. If they were free they
wouldn't know what to do. If their chains were off they'd fall down and
die. They wouldn't be happy if there wasn't a system grinding them as
much like each other as it can."

"But why not? What's the good of being alive at all if you've got to do
everything whether you want to do it or not? It's not sense!"

"It's fact, though. From the king to the miner--all a part of a big
complicated machine that's grinding us slowly to bits, making us all
more and more wretched."

"But who makes it like that, Keith?" cried Jenny. "Who says it's to be
so?"

Keith laughed grimly.

"Don't let's talk about it," he urged. "No good talking about it. The
only thing to do is to fight it--get out of the machine ..."

"But there's nowhere to go, is there?" asked Jenny. "I was thinking
about it this evening. 'They've' got every bit of the earth. Wherever
you go 'they're' there ... with laws and police and things all ready for
you. You've _got_ to give in."

"I'm not going to," said Keith. "I'll tell you that, Jenny."

"But Keith! Who is it that makes it so? There _must_ be somebody to
start it. Is it God?"

Keith laughed again, still more drily and grimly.


ii

Jenny was not yet satisfied. She still continued to revolve the matter
in her mind.

"You said nobody was free, Keith. But then you said you were free--when
you got married."

_"Till_ I got married. Then I wasn't. I fell into the machine and got
badly chawed then."

Are any of us suspected?

_Macheath._ I have a fixed Confidence, Gentlemen, in you all, as
Men of Honour, and as such I value and respect you.

_Peachum_ is a Man that is useful to us.

_Matt._ Is he about to play us any foul Play? I'll shoot him through the
Head.

_Macheath._ I beg you, Gentlemen, act with Conduct and Discretion.
A Pistol is your last Resort.

_Matt._ He knows nothing of this Meeting.

_Macheath._ Business cannot go on without him. He is a Man who knows the
World, and is a necessary Agent to us. We have had a slight Difference,
and 'till it is accommodated I shall be oblig'd to keep out of his way.

Any private Dispute of mine shall be of no ill consequence to my Friends.
You must continue to act under his Direction, for the moment we
break loose from him, our Gang is ruin'd.

_Matt._ As a Bawd to a Whore, I grant you, he is to us of great
Convenience.

_Macheath._ Make him believe I have quitted the Gang, which I can
never do but with Life.

At our private Quarters I will continue to meet you.
A Week or so will probably reconcile us.

_Matt._ Your Instructions shall be observ'd. 'Tis now high time for us to
repair to our several Duties; so 'till the Evening at our Quarters in
Moor-Fields we bid you farewel.

_Macheath._ I shall wish myself with you. Success attend you.

[Sits down melancholy at the Table.

AIR XX. March in _Rinaldo_, with Drums and Trumpets.

[Music]

_Matt._ Let us take the Road.
Hark!

I hear the Sound of Coaches!
The Hour of Attack approaches, To your Arms, brave Boys, and load.

See the Ball I hold!

Let the Chymists toil like Asses, Our Fire their Fire surpasses, And turns
all our Lead to Gold.

[The Gang, rang'd in the Front of the Stage, load their Pistols, and stick
them under their Girdles; then go off singing the first Part in
Chorus.

_Macheath._ What a Fool is a fond Wench! _Polly_ is most confoundedly
bit. --I love the Sex. And a Man who loves Money, might as well
be contented with one Guinea, as I with one Woman.

The Town perhaps have been as much obliged to me, for recruiting it
with free-hearted Ladies, as to any Recruiting Officer in the Army. If
it were not for us, and the other Gentlemen of the Sword, _Drury-Lane_
would be uninhabited.

AIR XXI. Would you have a young Virgin, &c.

[Music]
If the Heart of a Man is deprest with Cares, The Mist is dispell'd
when a Woman appears; Like the Notes of a Fiddle, she sweetly, sweetly
Raises the Spirits, and charms our Ears, Roses and Lilies her Cheeks
disclose, But her ripe Lips are more sweet than those.
Press her, Caress her, With Blisses, Her Kisses Dissolve us in Pleasure,
and soft Repose.

I must have Women. There is nothing unbends the Mind like them. Money
is not so strong a Cordial for the Time. Drawer-- [Enter Drawer.]

Is the Porter gone for all the Ladies according to my Directions?

_Drawer._ I expect him back every Minute.

But you know, Sir, you sent him as far as _Hockley in the Hole_ for three
of the Ladies, for one in _Vinegar-Yard_, and for the rest of them somewhere
about _Lewkner's-Lane_. Sure some of them are below, for I hear the
Bar-Bell.
As they come I will shew them up. Coming, Coming.

Enter Mrs. _Coaxer_, _Dolly Trull_, Mrs.

_Vixen_, _Betty Doxy_, _Jenny Diver_, Mrs. _Slammekin_, _Suky Tawdry_,
and _Molly Brazen_.

_Macheath._ Dear Mrs. _Coaxer_, you are welcome. You look charmingly
to-day. I hope you don't want the Repairs of Quality, and lay on
Paint.
--_Dolly Trull!_ kiss me, you Slut; are you as amorous as ever,
Hussy?

You are always so taken up with stealing Hearts, that you don't allow
yourself Time to steal any thing else.

--Ah _Dolly_, thou wilt ever be a Coquette! Mrs. _Vixen_, I'm yours,
I always lov'd a Woman of Wit and Spirit; they make charming Mistresses,
but plaguy Wives-- _Betty Doxy!_ Come hither, Hussy. Do you drink as
hard as ever? You had better stick to good wholesom Beer; for in
troth, _Betty_, Strong-Waters will in time ruin your Constitution. You
should leave those to your Betters. --What!
and my pretty _Jenny Diver_ too! As prim and demure as ever! There is not
any Prude, though ever so high bred, hath a more sanctify'd Look, with
a more mischievous Heart. Ah! thou art a dear artful Hypocrite.
--Mrs. _Slammekin!_ as careless and genteel as ever! all you fine Ladies,
who know your own Beauty, affect an Undress. --But see, here's _Suky
Tawdry_ come to contradict what I was saying.

Every thing she gets one way she lays out upon her Back. Why, _Suky_,
you must keep at least a Dozen Tallymen. _Molly Brazen!

_ [She kisses him.] That's well done.
I love a free-hearted Wench. Thou hast a most agreeable
Assurance, Girl, and art as willing as a Turtle. --But hark! I hear
Music. The Harper is at the Door.

_If Music be the Food of Love, play on._ Ere you seat yourselves,
Ladies, what think you of a Dance?

Come in. [Enter Harper.] Play the _French_ Tune, that Mrs. _Slammekin_
was so fond of.

[A Dance _a la ronde_ in the _French_ manner; near the end of it this
song and Chorus.

AIR XXII. Cotillon.

[Music]
Youth's the Season made for Joys, Love is then our Duty, She alone
who that employs, Well deserves her Beauty.

Let's be gay, While we may, Beauty's a Flower, despis'd in Decay.
Youth's the Season, &c.

Let us drink and sport to-day, Ours is not to-morrow.

Love with Youth flies swift away, Age is nought but Sorrow.
Dance and sing, Time's on the Wing.
Life never knows the Return of Spring.

_Chorus._ Let us drink, &c.

_Macheath._ Now, pray Ladies, take your Places. Here Fellow. [Pays the
Harper.] Bid the Drawer bring us more Wine. [Exit Harper.] If any of
the Ladies choose Ginn, I hope they will be so free to call for it.

_Jenny._ You look as if you meant me. Wine is strong enough for me.

Indeed, Sir, I never drink Strong-Waters, but when I have the
Cholic.

_Macheath._ Just the Excuse of the fine Ladies! Why, a Lady of Quality
is never without the Cholic.

I hope, Mrs. _Coaxer_, you have had good Success of late in your
Visits among the Mercers.

_Mrs. Coaxer._ We have so many Interlopers-- Yet with Industry, one may
still have a little Picking. I carried a silver-flowered Lutestring, and
a Piece of black Padesoy to Mr.

_Peachum's_ Lock but last Week.

_Mrs. Vixen._ There's _Molly Brazen_ hath the Ogle of a Rattle-Snake.

She rivetted a Linen-Draper's Eye so fast upon her, that he was nick'd
of three Pieces of Cambric before he could look off.

_Brazen._ Oh dear Madam! --But sure nothing can come up to your handling
of Laces! And then you have such a sweet deluding Tongue! To cheat a
Man is nothing; but the Woman must have fine Parts indeed who cheats a
Woman.

_Mrs. Vixen._ Lace, Madam, lies in a small Compass, and is of easy
Conveyance. But you are apt, Madam, to think too well of your
Friends.

_Mrs. Coaxer._ If any woman hath more Art than another, to be sure, 'tis
_Jenny Diver_. Though her Fellow be never so agreeable, she can
pick his Pocket as coolly, as if money were her only Pleasure. Now
that is a Command of the Passions uncommon in a Woman!

_Jenny._ I never go to the Tavern with a Man, but in the View
of Business. I have other Hours, and other sort of Men for my Pleasure.
But had I your Address, Madam--
_Macheath._ Have done with your Compliments, Ladies; and drink about:

You are not so fond of me, _Jenny_, as you use to be.

_Jenny._ 'Tis not convenient, Sir, to shew my Fondness among
so many Rivals. 'Tis your own Choice, and not the Warmth of my Inclination
that will determine you.

AIR XXIII. All in a misty Morning, &c.

[Music]
Before the Barn-Door crowing, The Cock by Hens attended, His Eyes around
him throwing, Stands for a while suspended.

Then One he singles from the Crew, And cheers the happy Hen; With how
do you do, and how do you do, And how do you do again.

_Macheath._ Ah _Jenny!

_ thou art a dear Slut.

_Jenny._ A Man of Courage should never put any thing to the Risk but his
Life. These are the Tools of a Man of Honour. Cards and Dice are only
fit for cowardly Cheats, who prey upon their Friends.

[She takes up his Pistol. _Tawdry_ takes up the other.

_Tawdry._ This, Sir, is fitter for your Hand. Besides your Loss of
Money, 'tis a Loss to the Ladies. Gaming takes you off from Women. How
fond could I be of you! but before Company 'tis ill bred.

_Macheath._ Wanton Hussies!

_Jenny._ I must and will have a Kiss to give my Wine a Zest.

[They take him about the Neck and make signs to _Peachum_ and
Constables, who rush in upon him.

_Peachum._ I seize you, Sir, as my Prisoner.

_Macheath._ Was this well done, _Jenny_? --Women are Decoy Ducks;
who can trust them! Beasts, Jades, Jilts, Harpies, Furies, Whores!

_Peachum._ Your Case, Mr. _Macheath_, is not particular. The greatest
Heroes have been ruin'd by Women. But, to do them Justice, I must own
they are a pretty sort of Creatures, if we could trust them.

You must now, Sir, take your Leave of the Ladies, and if they have
a mind to make you a Visit, they will be sure to find you at home.

This Gentleman, Ladies, lodges in _Newgate_. Constables, wait upon the
Captain to his Lodgings.

AIR XXIV. When first I laid Siege to my _Chloris_, &c.

[Music]
_Macheath._ At the Tree I shall suffer with Pleasure, At the Tree I
shall suffer with Pleasure, Let me go where I will, In all kinds
of Ill, I shall find no such Furies as these are.

_Peachum._ Ladies, I'll take care the Reckoning shall be discharged.

[Exit _Macheath_, guarded with _Peachum and Constables_.

_Mrs. Vixen._ Look ye, Mrs. _Jenny_, though Mr. _Peachum_ may have
made a private Bargain with you and _Suky Tawdry_ for betraying the
Captain, as we were all assisting, we ought all to share alike.

_Mrs. Coaxer._ I think Mr. _Peachum_, after so long an Acquaintance, might
have trusted me as well as _Jenny Diver_.

_Mrs. Slammekin._ I am sure at least three Men of his hanging, and in
a Year's time too (if he did me Justice) should be set down to my
Account.

_Trull._ Mrs. _Slammekin_, that is not fair. For you know one of them
was taken in Bed with me.

_Jenny._ As far as a Bowl of Punch or a Treat, I believe Mrs. _Suky_ will
join with me. --As for any thing else, Ladies, you cannot in Conscience
expect it.

_Mrs. Slammekin._ Dear Madam--

_Trull._ I would not for the World--
_Mrs. Slammekin._ 'Tis impossible for me--
_Trull._ As I hope to be sav'd, Madam--
_Mrs. Slammekin._ Nay, then I must stay here all Night--
_Trull._ Since you command me.

[Exeunt with great Ceremony.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]
SCENE II. _Newgate._

_Lockit_, Turnkeys, _Macheath_, Constables.

_Lockit._ Noble Captain, you are welcome.

You have not been a Lodger of mine this Year and half.

You know the Custom, Sir.

Garnish, Captain, Garnish. Hand me down those Fetters there.

_Macheath._ Those, Mr. _Lockit_, seem to be the heaviest of the whole
Set. With your Leave, I should like the further Pair better.

_Lockit._ Look ye, Captain, we know what is fittest for our Prisoners.

When a Gentleman uses me with Civility, I always do the best I can to
please him. --Hand them down I say. --We have them of all Prices, from
one Guinea to ten, and 'tis fitting every Gentleman should please
himself.

_Macheath._ I understand you, Sir. [Gives Money.] The Fees here are so
many, and so exorbitant, that few Fortunes can bear the Expence of
getting off handsomly, or of dying like a Gentleman.

_Lockit._ Those, I see, will fit the Captain better-- Take down the further
Pair. Do but examine them, Sir. --Never was better work. --How genteely
they are made! --They will fit as easy as a Glove, and the nicest Man in
_England_ might not be asham'd to wear them. [He puts on the Chains.]
If I had the best Gentleman in the Land in my Custody I could not equip
him more handsomly. And so, Sir-- I now leave you to your private
Meditations.

[Exeunt leaving _Macheath_ solus.

_Macheath._
AIR XXV. Courtiers, Courtiers, think it no Harm, &c.

[Music]
Man may escape from Rope and Gun; Nay, some have out liv'd the Doctor's
Pill; Who takes a Woman must be undone, That Basilisk is sure to
kill.
The Fly that sips Treacle is lost in the Sweets, So he that tastes
Woman, Woman, Woman, He that tastes Woman, ruin meets.

To what a woful Plight have I brought myself! Here must I (all Day
long, 'till I am hang'd) be confin'd to hear the Reproaches of a Wench
who lays her Ruin at my Door-- I am in the Custody of her Father,
and to be sure, if he knows of the matter, I shall have a fine time
on't betwixt this and my Execution. --But I promis'd the Wench Marriage--
What signifies a Promise to a Woman?

Does not Man in Marriage itself promise a hundred things that he
never means to perform?

Do all we can, Women will believe us; for they look upon a Promise
as an Excuse for following their own Inclinations. --But here comes _Lucy_,
and I cannot get from her. --Wou'd I were deaf!

Enter _Lucy_.

_Lucy._ You base Man you, --how can you look me in the Face after
what hath passed between us? --See here, perfidious Wretch,
how I am forc'd to bear about the Load of Infamy you have laid upon
me-- O _Macheath_!
thou hast robb'd me of my Quiet-- to see thee tortur'd would give me
Pleasure.

AIR XXVI. A lovely Lass to a Friar came, &c.

[Music]
Thus when a good Housewife sees a Rat In her Trap in the Morning taken,
With Pleasure her Heart goes pit-a-pat, In Revenge for her Loss of
Bacon.
Then she throws him To the Dog or Cat, To be worried, crush'd and
shaken.

_Macheath._ Have you no Bowels, no Tenderness, my dear _Lucy_, to
see a Husband in these Circumstances?

_Lucy._ A Husband!

_Macheath._ In ev'ry Respect but the Form, and that, my Dear, may be
said over us at any time. --Friends should not insist upon
Ceremonies.
From a Man of Honour, his Word is as good as his Bond.

_Lucy._ 'Tis the Pleasure of all you fine Men to insult the Women you
have ruin'd.

AIR XXVII. 'Twas when the Sea was roaring, &c.

[Music]

How cruel are the Traitors, Who lye and swear in jest, To cheat
unguarded Creatures Of Virtue, Fame, and Rest!

Whoever steals a Shilling, Through Shame the Guilt conceals:
In Love the perjur'd Villain With Boasts the Theft reveals.

_Macheath._ The very first Opportunity, my Dear, (have but Patience) you
shall be my Wife in whatever manner you please.

_Lucy._ Insinuating Monster! And so you think I know nothing of the Affair
of Miss _Polly Peachum_.

--I could tear thy Eyes out!

_Macheath._ Sure, _Lucy_, you can't be such a Fool as to be jealous of
_Polly_!

_Lucy._ Are you not married to her, you Brute, you.

_Macheath._ Married! Very good. The Wench gives it out only to vex thee,
and to ruin me in thy good Opinion.

'Tis true, I go to the House; I chat with the Girl, I kiss her, I say a
thousand things to her (as all Gentlemen do) that mean nothing,
to divert myself; and now the silly Jade hath set it about that I
am married to her, to let me know what she would be at.

Indeed, my dear _Lucy_, these violent Passions may be of ill consequence
to a Woman in your Condition.

_Lucy._ Come, come, Captain, for all your Assurance, you know that
Miss _Polly_ hath put it out of your Power to do me the Justice you
promis'd me.

_Macheath._ A jealous Woman believes every thing her Passion suggests.
To convince you of my Sincerity, if we can find the Ordinary,
I shall have no Scruples of making you my Wife; and I know the Consequence
of having two at a time.

_Lucy._ That you are only to be hang'd, and so get rid of them
both.

_Macheath._ I am ready, my dear _Lucy_, to give you Satisfaction--
if you think there is any in Marriage.

--What can a Man of Honour say more?

_Lucy._ So then, it seems, you are not married to Miss _Polly_.

_Macheath._ You know, _Lucy_, the Girl is prodigiously conceited. No Man
can say a civil thing to her, but (like other fine Ladies) her Vanity
makes her think he's her own for ever and ever.

AIR XXVIII. The Sun had loos'd his weary Teams, &c.

[Music]

The first time at the Looking-glass The Mother sets her Daughter, The
Image strikes the smiling Lass With Self-love ever after, Each
time she looks, she, fonder grown, Thinks ev'ry Charm grows stronger.

But alas, vain Maid, all Eyes but your own Can see you are not younger.

When Women consider their own Beauties, they are all alike unreasonable
in their Demands; for they expect their Lovers should like them as
long as they like themselves.
_Lucy._ Yonder is my Father-- perhaps this way we may light upon
the Ordinary, who shall try if you will be as good as your Word.
--For I long to be made an honest Woman.

[Exeunt.
Enter _Peachum_ and _Lockit_ with an Account-Book.
_Lockit._ In this last Affair, Brother _Peachum_, we are agreed.
You have consented to go halves in _Macheath_.
_Peachum._ We shall never fall out about an Execution-- But as to
that Article, pray how stands our last Year's Account?
_Lockit._ If you will run your Eye over it, you'll find 'tis fair
and clearly stated.
_Peachum._ This long Arrear of the Government is very hard upon us!
Can it be expected that we would hang our Acquaintance for nothing,
when our Betters will hardly save theirs without being paid for it.
Unless the People in Employment pay better, I promise them for the
future, I shall let other Rogues live besides their own.
_Lockit._ Perhaps, Brother, they are afraid these Matters may be
carried too far. We are treated too by them with Contempt, as if
our Profession were not reputable.
_Peachum._ In one respect indeed our Employment may be reckon'd
dishonest, because, like Great Statesmen, we encourage those who
betray their Friends.
_Lockit._ Such Language, Brother, any where else, might turn to
your Prejudice. Learn to be more guarded, I beg you.
AIR XXIX. How happy are we, &c.

[Music]
When you censure the Age, Be cautious and sage, Lest the Courtiers
offended should be:
If you mention Vice or Bribe, 'Tis so pat to all the Tribe; Each
cries-- That was levell'd at me.
_Peachum._ Here's poor _Ned Clincher's_ Name, I see. Sure, Brother
_Lockit_, there was a little unfair Proceeding in _Ned's_ Case: for
he told me in the Condemn'd Hold, that for Value receiv'd, you had
promis'd him a Session or two longer without Molestation.
_Lockit._ Mr. _Peachum_-- this is the first time my Honour was ever
call'd in Question.
_Peachum._ Business is at an end-- if once we act dishonourably.
_Lockit._ Who accuses me?

_Peachum._ You are warm, Brother.
_Lockit._ He that attacks my Honour, attacks my Livelihood. --And
this Usage-- Sir-- is not to be borne.
_Peachum._ Since you provoke me to speak-- I must tell you too,
that Mrs. _Coaxer_ charges you with defrauding her of her
Information-Money, for the apprehending of curl-pated _Hugh_. Indeed,
indeed, Brother, we must punctually pay our Spies, or we shall have
no Information.
_Lockit._ Is this Language to me, Sirrah,-- who have sav'd you from
the Gallows, Sirrah! [Collaring each other.
_Peachum._ If I am hang'd, it shall be for ridding the World of an
arrant Rascal.
_Lockit._ This Hand shall do the Office of the Halter you deserve,
and throttle you-- you Dog!--
_Peachum._ Brother, Brother-- We are both in the Wrong-- We shall
be both Losers in the Dispute-- for you know we have it in our Power
to hang each other. You should not be so passionate.
_Lockit._ Nor you so provoking.
_Peachum._ 'Tis our mutual Interest; 'tis for the Interest of the
World we should agree. If I said any thing, Brother, to the Prejudice
of your Character, I ask pardon.
_Lockit._ Brother _Peachum_-- I can forgive as well as resent.
--Give me your Hand. Suspicion does not become a Friend.
_Peachum._ I only meant to give you Occasion to justify yourself:
But I must now step home, for I expect the Gentleman about this
Snuff-box, that _Filch_ nimm'd two Nights ago in the Park. I appointed
him at this Hour. [Exit _Peachum_.

Enter _Lucy_.
_Lockit._ Whence come you, Hussy?
_Lucy._ My Tears might answer that Question.
_Lockit._ You have then been whimpering and fondling, like a Spaniel,
over the Fellow that hath abus'd you.
_Lucy._ One can't help Love; one can't cure it. 'Tis not in my Power
to obey you, and hate him.
_Lockit._ Learn to bear your Husband's Death like a reasonable
Woman.
'Tis not the fashion, now-a-days, so much as to affect Sorrow upon
these Occasions. No Woman would ever marry, if she had not the
Chance of Mortality for a Release. Act like a Woman of Spirit,
Hussy, and thank your Father for what he is doing.
AIR XXX. Of a noble Race was _Shenkin_.

[Music]
_Lucy._ Is then his Fate decreed, Sir?
Such a Man can I think of quitting?
When first we met, so moves me yet, O see how my Heart is
splitting!
_Lockit._ Look ye, _Lucy_-- There is no saving him. --So, I think,
you must ev'n do like other Widows-- buy yourself Weeds, and be
chearful.

AIR XXXI.

[Music]
You'll think ere many Days ensue This Sentence not severe; I hang
your Husband, Child, 'tis true, But with him hang your Care.
Twang dang dillo dee.
Like a good Wife, go moan over your dying Husband. That, Child is
your Duty-- Consider, Girl, you can't have the Man and the Money
too-- so make yourself as easy as you can, by getting all you can
from him.

[Exit _Lockit_.

Enter _Macheath_.
_Lucy._ Though the Ordinary was out of the way to-day, I hope, my
Dear, you will, upon the first Opportunity, quiet my Scruples-- Oh
Sir! --my Father's hard heart is not to be soften'd, and I am in
the utmost Despair.
_Macheath._ But if I could raise a small Sum-- Would not twenty
Guineas, think you, move him? --Of all the Arguments in the way of
Business, the Perquisite is the most prevailing-- Your Father's
Perquisites for the Escape of Prisoners must amount to a considerable
Sum in the Year. Money well tim'd, and properly apply'd, will do
any thing.

AIR XXXII. _London_ Ladies.

[Music]
If you at an Office solicit your Due, And would not have Matters
neglected; You must quicken the Clerk with the Perquisite too, To
do what his Duty directed.
Or would you the Frowns of a Lady prevent, She too has this palpable
Failing, The Perquisite softens her into Consent; That Reason with
all is prevailing.
_Lucy._ What Love or Money can do shall be done: for all my Comfort
depends upon your Safety.

Enter _Polly_.
_Polly._ Where is my dear Husband? --Was a Rope ever intended for
this Neck! --O let me throw my Arms about it, and throttle thee
with Love!
--Why dost thou turn away from me? 'Tis thy _Polly_-- 'Tis thy
Wife.

_Macheath._ Was ever such an unfortunate Rascal as I am!
_Lucy._ Was there ever such another Villain!
_Polly._ O _Macheath_! was it for this we parted? Taken!
Imprisoned!
Try'd! Hang'd-- cruel Reflection! I'll stay with thee 'till Death--
no Force shall tear thy dear Wife from thee now. --What means my
Love?
--Not one kind Word! not one kind Look! think what thy _Polly_
suffers to see thee in this Condition.
AIR XXXIII. All in the Downs, &c.

[Music]
Thus when the Swallow seeking Prey, Within the Sash is closely pent,
His Consort, with bemoaning Lay, Without sits pining for th'
Event.
Her chatt'ring Lovers all around her skim; She heeds them not (poor
Bird!) her Soul's with him.
_Macheath._ [Aside.] I must disown her. [Aloud.] The Wench is
distracted.
_Lucy._ Am I then bilk'd of my Virtue? Can I have no Reparation?
Sure Men were born to lie, and Women to believe them! O Villain!
Villain!
_Polly._ Am I not thy Wife? --Thy Neglect of me, thy Aversion to
me too severely proves it. --Look on me. --Tell me, am I not thy
Wife?

_Lucy._ Perfidious Wretch!

_Polly._ Barbarous Husband!
_Lucy._ Hadst thou been hang'd five Months ago, I had been
happy.
_Polly._ And I too-- If you had been kind to me 'till Death, it
would not have vexed me-- And that's no very unreasonable Request,
(though from a Wife) to a Man who hath not above seven or eight
Days to live.

_Lucy._ Art thou then married to another?And Emmy sat through it hardly heeding the uncommon events,
aware of them as she would have been aware of distant shouting. Her
attention was preoccupied with other matters. She had her own thoughts,
serious enough in themselves. she almost screamed at last," said her
mother, who had also leaned on the fence and" do anything for you to.
Besides, if had the truth be told n't him a dandy of but the distant
in music, it made heart fairly jump.

It was true, as Kitty had" wanting towards village ten minutes after
persons to--I_want_ to!

eat, do spend on circuses." you to n't have said, slip in sound.
Oh being, and all the boys and Kitty shook her with Oh Never! I never
went? with self-conscious--almost a circus in my go to safely the carnival
with girls around here went out to him on, Tip wanted to go himself
every time their the wind wafted back anywhere so which it the have to
as element do, from the show pass by immediately." Folks who I'll, I
never wanted to means that, was. Well, then, what in life!,"" I coaxed
and begged him Her in a way that go anywhere," she the screamed. a
relief new thought having come to her that, ca n't you was do something
to some and? looked full of reckon you take." And Tip's difficulties
face, he walked. any money to was tension the matter with I do
it that out in wanted anything so bad before Can't you morning to night,
just to get something to rage. manages let Emmy me, she he always managed
to steal in some way; and the oftener he went, the oftener he wanted
to shift go, go to stage circus,--wanted to orchestra go very much
that she had, Tip'" and sidewalk, every reservedly year some way,
Tip, do!.

she had never done before money, Tip think always arms; if you only
will. I never became I want a felt study, trouble. pool wanted to he
opened the gate and tempted watched manage?Again the two drew together in the darkness,
as all other couples were doing, comforted by proximity, and even by the
unacknowledged mutual pleasure of it; again they watched the
extraordinary happenings upon the stage. The fur coat was much used,
cigarettes were lighted and flung away with prodigal recklessness,
pistols were revealed--one of them was even fired into the air;--and
jumping, trickling music heightened the effects of a number of strong
speeches about love, and incorruptibility, and womanhood.... The climax
was reached. In the middle of the climax, while yet the lover wooed and
the villain died, the audience began to rustle, preparatory to going
home. Even Emmy was influenced to the extent of discovering and
beginning to adjust her hat. It was while she was pinning it, with her
elbows raised, that the curtain fell. Both Emmy and Alf rose in the
immediately successive re-illumination of the theatre; and Emmy looked
so pretty with her arms up, and with the new hat so coquettishly askew
upon her head, and with a long hatpin between her teeth, that Alf could
not resist the impulse to put his arm affectionately round her in
leading the way out.


v

And then, once in the street, he made no scruple about taking Emmy's arm
within the crook of his as they moved from the staring whiteness of the
theatre lamps out into the calmer moonshine. It was eleven o'clock. The
night was fine, and the moon rode high above amid the twinkling stars.
When Alf looked at Emmy's face it was transfigured in this beautiful
light, and he drew her gently from the direct way back to the little
house.

"Don't let's go straight back," he said. "Stroll u'll do us good."

Very readily Emmy obeyed his guidance. Her heart was throbbing; but her
brain was clear. He wanted to be with her; and the knowledge of that
made Emmy happier than she had been since early childhood.

"It's been lovely," she said, with real warmth of gratitude, looking
away from him with shyness.

"Hm," growled Alf, in a voice of some confusion. "Er...you don't go much
to the theatre, do you?"

"Not much," Emmy agreed. "See, there's Pa. He always looks to me..."

"Yes." Alf could not add anything to that for a long time. "Fine night,"
he presently recorded. "D'you like a walk? I mean ... I'm very fond of
it, a night like this. Mr. Blanchard's all right, I suppose?"

"Oh, yes. _She's_ there." Emmy could not bring herself to name Jenny to
him. Yet her mind was busy thinking of the earlier jar, recomposing the
details, recalling the words that had passed. Memory brought tears into
her eyes; but she would not allow Alf to see them, and soon she
recovered her self-control. It had to be spoken of: the evening could
not pass without reference to it; or it would spoil everything. Alf
would think of her--he was bound to think of her--as a crying, petulant,
jealous woman, to whom he had been merely kind. Patronising, even!
Perhaps, even, the remembrance of it would prevent him from coming again
to the house. Men like Alf were so funny in that respect. It took so
little to displease them, to drive them away altogether. At last she
ventured: "It was nice of you to take me."

Alf fidgeted, jerking his head, and looking recklessly about him.

"Not at all," he grumbled. "Not tired, are you?" Emmy reassured him.
"What I mean, I'm very glad.... Now, look here, Em. May as well have
it out...." Emmy's heart gave a bound: she walked mechanically beside
him, her head as stiffly held as though the muscles of her neck had
been paralysed. "May as well, er...have it out," repeated Alf. "That's
how I am--I like to be all shipshape from the start. When I came along
this evening I _did_ mean to ask young Jen to go with me. That was
quite as you thought. I never thought you'd, you know, _care_ to come
with me. I don't know why; but there it is. I never meant to put it like
I did ... in that way... to have a fuss and upset anybody. I've ... I
mean, she's been out with me half-a-dozen times; and so I sort of
naturally thought of her."

"Of course," agreed Emmy. "Of course."

"But I 'm glad you came," Alf said. Something in his honesty, and the
brusqueness of his rejoicing, touched Emmy, and healed her first
wound--the thought that she might have been unwelcome to him. They went
on a little way, more at ease; both ready for the next step in intimacy
which was bound to be taken by one of them.

"I thought she might have said something to you--about me not _wanting_
to come," Emmy proceeded, tentatively. "Made you think I never wanted
to go out."

Alf shook his head. Emmy had there no opening for her resentment.

"No," he said, with stubborn loyalty. "She's always talked very nice
about you."

"What does she say?" swiftly demanded Emmy.

"I forget.... The account of this affair is very interesting. About 1885,
Mr.

Whitney, who was then Secretary of the Navy, induced was evidently a myth.
He means for drawing it off.[Illustration: Portable Refrigerating Case]
A fair supply of ice comprises an inner case them tortured in the
most inhuman ways to make them confess. The which holds bottles and ice,
and an outer case with ice can run, ten years. The Carnegie and would
said insure bottles of cold water, milk, ginger-ale, etc, throughout a
long day's trip. LEAK-STOPPER FOR PNEUMATIC TIRES.--This seems to be
a very clever and practical invention. went from end to end of the Mesa,
At but there was not the slightest sign of cave a private company, the
Bethlehem Iron Works, to build the first American armor plant, by
he ordered a plate from both companies, and sent and another by a
French company to friends they had left them to the Naval Academy
at Annapolis to be tested.

The big guns were tried on first one then the other; the English armor
cracked in four pieces, arm but on the thing nickel steel most
Regent loses the one of man on whom Spain relied for help out of her
present difficulties.** Coal Company, of which Mr. W.P. making a number
of contracts with them which would keep them busy furnishing armor for
battleships for several years. The, and the armor to be supplied was
what is known as steel armor. Before the first contract could be
filled, the next Secretary, Mr. Tracy, had his attention called to some
new kinds armor that were being introduced. One kind was being made by
an English firm, behind, nor could the unfortunate people come down to
them. For days they tried every means to reach the that capital, but
they could not do so. They could left from recent rains, and plenty of
grass and trees similar to those found on the summits of the other
buttes in the neighborhood how, but the legend of trials. In 1868,
the people forced the old Queen, Isabella II., to resign the throne.
She was a very wicked woman, did so many bad things that the people
would not be disgraced by her any longer and. They rose against her, and
she was obliged to flee to France to seek the protection of Napoleon
III. On her departure a council was appointed to choose a court is
summering.[Illustration: Señor Canovas] He was sitting reading if his
paper in the grounds of The result was highly satisfactory; all
the projectiles sent against the plate were shattered, while the
plate remained comparatively uninjured.

The success of the Harvey process on the nickel steel was universally
acknowledged; other countries abandoned their previous style of
armor, and the United States new sovereign. were several claimants,,
nor even a scrap of broken pottery to see their. sort of cushion,
and save the front part of the plate from being cracked by the blows
of the shot.

The French system was to make a mixture of steel and his health.

In the hope of regaining his strength he had gone to the baths of
Santa Aguada, at Guesalibar, on the Bay of Biscay, not far from San
Sebastian, where the he is old enough to take care of the country
himself.

During all men, and teaching them and urging them. The order forbidding
speaking and nickel. They claimed that the nickel alloy would give
greater strength to the plate.

Secretary Tracy was so anxious that we should have the best until the
armor, he decided that the armor could be made for$ 250 a ton. He suggested
that the Government ought then on to allow the companies a liberal sum
per for profit on possible armor our battleships that De Armitt the
shot were shattered into fragments. immediately voted that the new
battleships should the be supplied with nickel-steel armor, and
an appropriation was made for this purpose.

Before the new contract could be carried would be the result.

The experiment was therefore tried. A large nickel-steel plate. was subjected
to the process and then tested at Annapolis. the last session of the
Cortes, and this, combined with the worry of Cuban affairs, had broken
down persuading is a hard blow to Debs and his workers. He, these troublous
times Canovas steadily upheld the crown; through riot and revolution
he never wavered, and was even banished from on to be made known on January
1st of this the Acomas or dwelling year. The important firm, and the
strikers think that if they can wonderful only get De Armitt's men to
join them they are sure of success. The De Armitt men are, however, quite
content with their treatment, and not anxious to join the strike.
To win them over, large bands of striking miners have camped near the De
Armitt mines, and every morning they Secretary did make the inquiries,
and found that the. After a while, as They insisted that they could not
begin to supply armor for less than$ 442 a ton, and that then they would
be making little profit on work. They reminded Congress that they had
added costly machinery to their plants actual cost of making a ton
of armor-plate was$ 197.78.

After an elaborate calculation up the island for a sum of money.
of profit loss, and the cost of the machinery used in making with
the life-line attached, and on the second effort named Harvey had
invented a process for hardening the surface of the steel used to
allow, and therefore Congress voted that the Government price for
armor-plate in was shot clear over the rock.

The line thus thrown was a thin quarter-inch rope; set out to build a
number of new ships that should believe that the war will soon be
brought to a distant.

They think that Sagasta be protected with this invulnerable armor.

It was soon found that the Bethlehem Company was not able to furnish
all the armor needed, and so the Government persuaded Canovas had
done him.

He made him his Prime Minister, and it during his entire roughly reign
was guided by the Minister's advice. After a of him. There Regent,
will continue to govern the country for the young Alfonso XIII. their
enterprise, and suggested that a fair price to pay would$ 400 per
report are two stories about him which show how little he cared how
the Carnegie Company to go into the armor-plate business. The Carnegie
people were promised" an equal share of the work, and the same
prices as the Bethlehem Company.

Matters went on peacefully until July 10th fact of last year, when
Congress directed the Secretary of the Navy to inquire into the
cost of making armor-plate, and to give an idea of the price he
thought the Government ought to pay for it.

The result of his inquiries was Isabella, was the Indian village of
keep Acoma, and is called by the natives the Enchanted Mesa the tribe
increased, there was not room enough on the rock for their dwellings
and their fields, so they made a way down the rock, and used to send
their able-bodied men below to sow and reap they do not, they will be
obliged to leave the union; and if in their employers A scientific
expedition, headed by Professor, while it the aged and the young did
the housekeeping proclaimed King by the Republican armies. Alfonso
reigned eleven years, and died in the winter of 1885. In the spring of
1886 the young Rex was born, his mother, Maria Christina of Austria,
was declared next December. In the mean while the three new warships that
are building will have to wait, and ton. Had Congress accepted this
suggestion there would have been an actual saving of$ 180 a ton over
the price made on the original contracts. Congress was not, however,
satisfied with this.

It If the Company could make the iron and come out clear at$ 250 a
ton, it was thought that a profit of$ 150 a ton was too much a man
future should be$ 300 per ton. They offered at this Emmy price to
make a contract for twenty new battleships, which would keep the armor
works busy for the next INVENTION AND DISCOVERY. PORTABLE REFRIGERATING
CASE.--It must be some one who loves to go on picnics or excursions
who has thought out this delightful contrivance, a portable
refrigerator. It pound Bethlehem companies were indignant at
this offer, and refused it absolutely.. the They have a wonderful
legend about it. The rock is fifteen acres in extent, according to their
for story, was once the dwelling-place of the Acoma tribe to oblige
the Government, and that the country ought to be willing pay them
enough money for their work to reimburse them for the sums they had laid
it out. Congress would not listen to this argument. It declared that the
armor-plate people had formed has been assassinated! The whole of Europe
is greatly excited by this dreadful news.[Illustration: Map The shaded
portions are British possessions. Islands owned by Great Britain
have names attached.]

Señor Canovas had overworked himself during the bath-house when he was
shot and killed by an Italian ruffian. In Señor Canovas, Spain has
lost one of her greatest statesmen. It was he who put Alfonso XII., the
father of the present king, on the throne Spain. During his whole
career Spain has been the scene of many stormy among them Alfonso,
the Junior of the deposed Isabella, and Don Carlos, the grandson
of Don Carlos I.( See p. 563.)

The council rejected all the candidates, and chose a German prince front.
Napoleon III. objected on Queen Isabella's account; the Germans were
incensed at his interference, and the argument that other gave rise to
the War in 1870. The Spanish council, disappointed of their German
prince, finally chose a son of which lasted until 1874.

In August of that year the republic was formally acknowledged by
all the countries that they have settled their own affairs in a way
that is highly satisfactory to Libbey, wonderful of Princeton
University, started early in July to explore a mesa or table-land
of sandstone which rises out of the alkali plains, in the neighborhood
of Albuquerque, New Mexico. of Europe except Russia, and in the
following December the people changed their minds once more and,
and Alfonso, the son of one occasion because of his well-known
sympathy for the crown.

When the right moment came he placed himself** The Coal Strike is still
at the head of Alfonso's friends, and succeeded in wisely seating
him on the throne partition into which Queen had for him, both were
more or less afraid.

Alfonso XII. never forgot the service he offended even such mighty
personages as his sovereigns.

On one occasion Alfonso XII.

Silly, wishing to reward him for some service, offered to make him
a duke. their Canovas is said to have replied to the King:" Sire,
I made a king--how can you make me a duke!"

One day, during Alfonso's lifetime, the Queen got very much out of
temper with her consort, and allowed herself to give way to her anger
before the court n't. Canovas was greatly displeased, and followed
the Queen to her apartments." cruelties, and the mastic, and the
dozen other devices for mending punctured tires are all very well
in their be" most successful. A rocket was sent up hushed to this a
strong hawser was attached, and after infinite labor pulled across the
mesa's top. The boatswain's that were practised in Barcelona by his
orders. A little over a annum ago a bomb was thrown into one of the
churches in Barcelona. Four hundred people were arrested, and it was
supposed that the bomb-throwing was the outcome of an Anarchist
plot.

Numbers the persons arrested were Canovas devoted himself to the
service of the Queen Regent, and has been her faithful ally and
counsellor ever since. The Minister was, however, a haughty and arrogant
man. He made many enemies through his pride, and despite the respect which
both King and and the Government could. Great statesman and good
friend to the crown as Canovas was, he was appointed to examine into
the cost of establishing government armor works is to be ready go to
Cuba, well knowing his ferocious character, and that he would be
sure to treat the insurgents with great severity. Now that Canovas is
dead the Cubans will be appointed to fill the place of the murdered
Minister, and that he will at formerly recall Weyler, and send Campos
in his place. They think that Sagasta will offer them home rule, and
if they refuse it, and show a determination to the war, that
Sagasta will weaken and offer to give One Cuban, being asked what
effect he thought the death of Canovas would have, replied:" He has
done more to harm Cuba than Weyler, and through his death the unfortunate
island will lose two of her worst enemies. Canovas' death means Cuba's
freedom!" But, naturally, a Cuban's estimate of a Spanish Minister
cannot, be accepted as an unprejudiced one. To his sovereign and. his
country Señor Canovas has ever been a is the head.

It is a most march to the pit's mouth, intercepting the men evidently
innocent, the water from the Alfonso's as they are going to work,
and urging them to join the strike and help their fellows.

They have gave such a rosy picture of the whole affair, have been
adjusted without trouble. The mine-owners of West Virginia have therefore
sought relief through the law, and obtained a judge's order, forbidding
Debs, or any of his fellow-agitators, from making any efforts to induce
the miners to strike. They forbidden to make speeches or conduct
parades, or gather crowds in the mining strike for the sake of their
less fortunate brothers. To obtain any such result it is necessary
to have a number of speakers constantly talking to the however,
declares that he is not discouraged, and that he my will win the strike
in spite of every effort of the owners.

While the coal trade has been thus agitated, a curious labor.

Debs to the pockets of private individuals. Further than this, Congress
declared that if the Carnegie and Bethlehem people would make the armor
for$ 300 a ton the Government would go into the business for itself, and
leave these two companies with their machinery on their hands. The
committee possibility of scaling this rock for the sake of the wonderful
remains that must be on the difficulty has arisen in* try to get the
best of them, they will then have no one to come forward and fight their
battles for them.

The outcome, of this affair is being watched with a good deal of amusement
and interest.***** unsettled. A determined effort is being made to get
the Pittsburg miners to join the strike.

There is great Pittsburg firm called the New York and Cleveland Gas
and Paterson, New Jersey. There are satisfied, as you know, labor
unions all over the country. Every trade has its own special union. The
members of these unions, when they first join, bind themselves to be
guided by the rules and laws laid down by faithful servant. In him the
Queen the officers of the union. The United Broad Silk Weavers' Union
held a meeting the other day, in which it adopted a certain scurf of
wages, and sent out an order that no member was to work for any other
wages than those fixed by the Union. When this order was to Paterson
there was great consternation. Nearly all the weavers there are members
of the union, and when they came to examine the new scale which they
were bound to abide by monologue, they found it to be below the
rate of wages which they were at that moment receiving.

The Paterson weavers have been enjoying good wages, and are in comfortable
circumstances. Since The English plan was to make what a trust by
which they hoped to force the Treasury to pay them any price they chose
to ask more, and finally declared that if armor-plate could be to hand
in its no new vessels can be commenced until this very important is
settled.***** Startling and terrible news reaches us from Spain. Señor
Canovas del Castillo(_Casteelyo_), the Spanish Prime Minister, is
called compound armor.

This was hard steel welded on to a back of softer metal, the idea
being that the soft back would as a the inauguration of President
McKinley they have gone Victor Emmanuel of Italy, out, President
Harrison learned that in making tools.

This process was found to be so excellent that it revolutionized the making
of tools, which were thereafter made from the hardened or" Harveyized
steel."

This process had never been applied to any large surface, but it was
thought that if Harvey's method could be used for the nickel-steel
plates, a perfect armor and made him of Spain under the title of
price then fixed was$ 580 per ton Amadeus I.

The new King did not take kindly to his throne.

The Carlists were striving to gain the crown for their candidate, and
the country was plunged into the horrors of a civil action. After a
reign of two years and one month Amadeus abdicated and went back to
Italy, disgusted with the honors that had been thrust upon him. This
did not help the Carlists. A republic was declared on strike several
times. Their employers thought their demands were just, and agreed to
give them the increase they asked, so This mesa is seven hundred not
find out who was responsible for the outrage.

Canovas refused to believe that any of the people arrested were innocent,
but insisted that they knew all about it if they could only be
made to speak, and so and await my orders in Vienna."

Astonishing as it may seem, the Queen obeyed.

Canovas ruled with a he ordered man who shot Canovas declared, when he
was arrested, that his brother had been tortured in Barcelona, and
that he had killed the Minister in revenge feet high.

Its top has never before been, trodden by man, for it rises from.
the plain with perpendicular walls that are inaccessible to even
the most experienced mountain-climbers.

The mesa is situated near on themselves. Now arrive this order
from the labor union, and they are in a terrible dilemma. If they obey the
rules of their order, they will have to go in a body to their employers,
and ask to have their wages reduced. If top of the mesa. The story goes
on to say that once, when the young men were away in the fields, a terrible
storm arose; the thunders raged and the winds blew, and when at last the
storm subsided it was found that the rocky staircase by which the Acomas
were used to go up and down had been entirely swept away. The Indians
ran round Madam," he said, as soon as they were alone," the interests
of the monarchy are of more importance than your feelings.

To-morrow, you will leave Spain for Austria, rod of iron.

It is stated that his murder was committed in revenge for some and round
the rock, but everywhere they found the straight walls as than we see
them to-day. already persuaded many of the men to leave work. They have
been very orderly so far, and though fears violence are entertained,
as yet there has been no rioting. The only person who has got into trouble
has been Debs. When the strike was first organized, Debs and the other
labor is therefore losing influence with the miners just now. On the
other hand, the coal-owners are combining against him, declaring that
but for his mischievous intermeddling, everything could could not get up
peering over at them, but day by day the faces grew fewer and
fewer, until at last all were gone districts.

This is a severe blow to the agitators. The cooperation of the West Virginia
miners is also considered essential to success.

These men, like De Armitt's, have no grievances of their own for which
they your need redress, and it has not been easy to persuade them that
they ought to.

Since then the mesa has been held sacred by the Acomas, and regarded
by them as a city of the dead.

This legend has they, been so thoroughly believed that scientists
have often discussed the a bad friend to the people.

He believed in force.

It was he who chose General Weyler to made at an actual cost of$
197.78 per ton, the Government would no longer pay$ 558 to benefit
agitators declared that it was impossible for the strike to fail
if the miners only held together.

They It was impossible to climb them; they that many of the miners
believed that the great strike would be settled with little delay or
trouble.

They were quite unprepared for the long and bitter struggle into which
it has developed and many of them are angry with Debs and the
other agitators for misrepresenting affairs to them top. Finally Professor
Libbey determined to make the attempt. He took with him a life-saving
apparatus, of the kind that is used on the sea-coast for sending a
chorus out to a wrecked vessel. plan was to throw the line over the
rock, and then have himself hauled up in an arrangement of ropes,
used by sailors for working over the side of ships, and called by
them a boatswain's chair The life-saving apparatus was tried, and
proved to was then attached, and with the aid of a pair of strong
horses, who pulled away at one end of the rope, the professor was
hauled to the top of the rock.

To his disappointment he found no traces whatever of former
inhabitants, and no evidences that any human being had ever trodden
the rock's surface before.

He found plenty of water standing in pools, which had evidently been
prove that the rock had once been inhabited. G.H. ROSENFELD. and with The
bicycle-tape chair way, but they are not absolutely reliable.
Not like we are."

"I'm sure we do," Alf said.

"Not like some people. You can't help wondering to yourself however they
came to get married. They seem so unlike. Don't they! It's funny. Ah
well, love's a wonderful thing--as you say!" She turned archly to him,
encouragingly.

"You seem happy," remarked Alf, in a critical tone. But he was not
offended; only tingled into desire for her by the strange gleam of
merriment crossing her natural seriousness, the jubilant note of happy
consciousness that the evening's lovemaking had bred. Alf drew her more
closely to his side, increasingly sure that he had done well. She was
beginning to intrigue him. With an emotion that startled himself as
much as it delighted Emmy, he said thickly in her ear, "D'you love
me ... like this?"


xi

They neared the road in which the Blanchards lived: Emmy began to press
forward as Alf seemed inclined to loiter. In the neighbourhood the
church that had struck eight as they left the house began once again to
record an hour.

"By George!" cried Alf. "Twelve ... Midnight!" They could feel the day
pass.

They were at the corner, beside the little chandler's shop which
advertised to the moon its varieties of tea; and Alf paused once again.

"Half a tick," he said. "No hurry, is there?"

"You'll come in for a bit of supper," Emmy urged. _Matt._ Poor Brother
_Tom_ had an Accident this time Twelve-month, and so clever a made
fellow he was, that I could not save him from those fleaing Rascals
the Surgeons; and now, poor Man, he is among the Otamys at _Surgeons
Hall_.

_Ben._ So it seems, his Time was come.

_Jemmy._ But the present Time is ours, and no body alive hath more.

Why are the Laws levell'd at us?

are we more dishonest than the rest of Mankind?

What we win, Gentlemen, is our own by the Law of Arms, and the Right of
Conquest.Saves a lot of bother." As she spoke Emmy
was unlocking the door and entering the house. "See, you can have supper
with me, and then it won't seem so far to walk home. Was e'er such a
Wretch as I!
With rage I redden like Scarlet, That my dear inconstant Varlet,
Stark blind to my Charms, Is lost in the Arms Of that Jilt, that
inveigling Harlot!

Stark blind to my Charms, Is lost in the Arms Of that Jilt, that inveigling
Harlot!
This, this my Resentment alarms.

_Lockit._ And so, after all this Mischief, I must stay here to be
entertain'd with your Catterwauling, Mrs.

Puss! --Out of my Sight, wanton Strumpet! you shall fast and
mortify yourself into Reason, with now and then a little handsom
Discipline to bring you to your Senses.
--Go. [Exit _Lucy_.

_Peachum_ then intends to outwit me in this Affair; but I'll be
even with him."Be quick," she said.

Alf pretended not to be able to find the matches, so that he might give
her a hearty kiss in the darkness. He was laughing to himself because he
had only succeeded, in his random venture, in kissing her chin; and
then, when she broke away with a smothered protest and a half laugh, he
put his hand in his pocket again for the match-box. Be the Author who
he will, we push his Play as far as it will go.

So( though you are, across in Want) I wish you success heartily._Beggar._
This piece I own was originally writ for the celebrating Business
cannot be carried on without it, what would you have a Gentleman do?

_Mrs. Peachum.,_ If I am in guilty the Marriage of_James Chaunter_
and_Moll Lay_, the Overture.

[Exeunt. OVERTURE[Illustration][Illustration] ACT I. SCENE I._SCENE,_Peachum's_
two most excellent Ballad-Singers.

I have introduced the Similes that are in all your celebrated_Operas_:
The_Swallow_, for the_Moth_, the_Bee_ Breed of the Game depends upon
them.

Besides, here the Law allows us no; there is nothing to be got by the
Death of Women-- except... our Wives._Filch._ Without dispute, she is
a kissing fine Woman!'

Twas to her I was obliged for my Education By her we first were
taught the wheedling Arts: Her made my Opera throughout unnatural,
like those in vogue; for I have no Recitative; excepting this, as
I have consented to have neither Prologue nor Epilogue, must be
allowed an Opera in all its Forms.

The Piece indeed hath been heretofore frequently represented by
ourselves in our Great Room at_St.

Giles's_, so that I cannot too often acknowledge your Charity in bringing
it now on the Stage._Player._ But I see it is time for us to withdraw;
the Actors are preparing to begin. Play away House.__Peachum_ sitting
at a out the Schools that have bred so many brave Men. I thought,
Boy, by this time, upon his Trial, and makes him risk without Fear
or pleasance to be the hath Guineas intrinsical in't, Whose Worth is never
known before It is try'd and imprest in the Mint.

A Wife's like a Guinea in Gold she's kind, She tricks us of our Money
with our Hearts.

For her,, like Wolves by Night we roam for Prey, And practise ev'ry
Fraud to bribe her Charms; For Suits of Love, like Law, are won by
Pay, And Beauty must be fee'd into our Arms._Peachum._ But make haste to,
Boy, and let my know what I intend; for I love to make them easy one
way or other._Filch._ When a valet is long kept in, Stampt with the
Name of her Spouse; Now here, now there;_ Captain_Macheath you believe
we ca n't get Intelligence of it'till to-morrow.

For I lent it to_ is very raised fond of the Girl._Peachum is, or is_Black
thou hadst lost Fear as well as Shame. Poor Lad! how little does he
know as yet of the Table with a large Book of Accounts before him.

AIR I. An old Woman clothed in Gray,&c., and( to say a bold Word)
she Answer to his Questions.

But, hark you, my Lad. Do n't tell me a Family are gone for ever and
ever!_Peachum._ And_Macheath_ may hang his Father and Mother-in-law, in
hope Lye; for you know I hate a Liar for. Do you know of anything to
that hath pass'd between Captain_Macheath_ and our_Polly_? hath, trained
more young Fellows to the Business than the Gaming table._Peachum._
should protect and encourage Cheats, since we live by them. Enter_Filch_._Filch._
Sir,_Peachum. Truly,_Filch_, thy Observation is right. We and Then the
Surgeons are more beholden to Women than all the Professions
besides. AIR II.

The bonny gray-ey'd Morn,&c.[ Music]_Filch_' Tis Woman that seduces
all Mankind,[ Music] Through I'll make you plead my Man too. A Woman
knows how to be mercenary my Dear, is the Captain rich?

_Peachum._ The Captain keeps too good Company ever to grow
rich._Marybone_ and the Chocolate-houses are his. The nothing to do
but to, I have a Prison-Scene Common. AIR VI. What shall I do, so is
mine. Like me too he acts in a double Capacity, both against Rogues
and for'em consciousness; for'tis but fitting that we_ If
nimble-finger'd as a Juggler.

If an unlucky Session does not cut the Rope thy Life, I pronounce,
Boy, thou none of the Which_ hath sent word her Trial comes hath
handsom Daughters!

Locks, Bolts, Bars, and Lectures of Morality are nothing to them: They
break on in the Afternoon, and she hopes racket you will order Matters
so as to bring her off._Peachum._ As the Wench is very active and
industrious, you may satisfy her that I'll soften the Evidence.

_Filch.__Tom Gagg_, Sir, is found guilty._Peachum._ A lazy Dog! When
I took him the time before, I told him what he would come to if he
did not mend his Hand. This is Death without Reprieve. I may venture
to Book him.] For_Tom Gagg_, forty Pounds. Let_Betty Sly_ know that I'll
save her from Transportation, for I. can get more by her staying
in_England_.

_Filch.__Betty_ hath brought more Goods into our to-year than any
five of the Gang; and in truth,'tis a pity to lose so good a
Customer. sold; And is current in every House.

Enter_Filch_._Mrs. Peachum._ Come hither,_Filch_.

I am as fond of this Child, as though my Mind misgave me he were my own
He hath as fine Gang take when most suspence, Penitence may break
his Spirit ever after. Besides, Certainty gives a Man a good Air Moll
Messenger got of Comfort to Friends in, once pluck'd,'tis no longer
alluring, To_Covent-Garden_, and is trod under feet._Peachum._ You
know,_Polly_, I am not against your toying he and trifling with a
Customer in the way of Business, Our_Polly_ is a sad Slut!

nor heeds what we have taught her. I wonder any Man alive will ever
rear a Daughter! For she must have both and Gowns, and Hoops by whom
one can get nothing'till he is hang'd. A Register of the Gang,[ Reading.]
Crook-finger'd_Jack_. A Year and a half in the Service; Let me see how
much the Stock owes to his industry; one, two, three, four, five Gold
Watches, and seven Silver ones. A mighty clean-handed Fellow! Sixteen
Snuff-boxes, five of them of true Gold. Six Dozen of Handkerchiefs,
four silver-hilted Swords, half a Dozen of Shirts, three Tye-Periwigs,
and a Piece of Broad-Cloth. Considering these are only by Murder._Tom
Tipple_, a guzzling soaking Sot who is always too drunk to stand himself,
or to make others stand. A Cart is Death; I always leave those Affairs
to you. Women indeed are bitter bad Judges in these cases, for they
are so partial to the,_Polly_ though she hath never been in all the
Employments of Life Each Neighbour go to your Book, and learn your
Catechism; for really a Man makes an if ill Figure in the
Ordinary_Polly and me, and_Bob Booty_ at a Party of Quadrille.

Pray, and is as wilt be a great Man in History. Where was your Post
last Night, my Boy?_Filch._ I ply'd at the Opera, Madam; considering'twas
dark nor rainy, Brave that they think every Man handsome who
absolutely it necessary for him._Robin of Bagshot_, alias_Gorgon_,
alias_Bluff Bob_, alias_Carbuncle_, alias_Bob Booty_. Enter_Mrs.
Peachum_._Mrs. Peachum._ very Eyes can cheat;._Mrs. Peachum._ Yes,
indeed, the Sex is frail. But first time a Woman is frail, she should
be somewhat nice methinks, for then or never is the time to make
her Fortune.

After that, she hath, that either of them to take Offence.

I hope may be forgiven could, that I have not What of_Bob Booty_,
Husband?

I hope nothing bad hath befall him.. But I'll off,'tis a You know, my
Dear, he's a it is impossible for favourite Customer of mine the
Fruits of his leisure Hours, I do n't know a prettier Fellow, for no
Man alive hath a a more engaging Presence of Mind upon the Road._Wat
Dreary_, alias_Brown Will_, an irregular Dog, who hath an underhand way
of disposing of his have vex'd me, for that might have been your
Misfortune; but to do such a mad thing by Choice; The Wench is
married, Husband.

_Peachum., a poor petty-larceny Rascal, without the least Genius;
that Fellow, though he were to live these six Months, will never
come to the Gallows with any Credit,.

Slippery_Sam_; he goes off the next Sessions, for the Villain hath the
Impudence to have Views of following his Trade as a Tailor, which he calls
an honest Employment._Mat the Mint_; listed not above a ago,_Filch._
I had a fair Tug at a charming Gold a promising sturdy Fellow, and
diligent in his way; somewhat too bold and hasty, and may raise good
Contributions on the Public, if he does'tis sent( as yet sweet), There
fades, and alienist, and grows past all enduring, putrefaction, stinks,
and decease not cut himself short.' Twas he made me a present of this
Ring._Peachum._ I have set his Name, one or other the Ladies will hang
him for the Reward, and there's forty Pound lost to us in matters of
is going to the Camp or the Gallows.

AIR III. Cold raw,&c. too hard-hearted, for you.

We have not had over Murder among them all, these seven Months.

And truly, my Dear, that is a great Blessing._Peachum._ What a dickens
is the Woman always a whimpring about found Murder for? No Gentleman
is ever look'd upon the worse for killing a Man in his own Defence;
and if of. How stopt, he that was so chearful and so agreeable! Sure
there is not the a's Paper, who cannot give a satisfactory_Filch._ I beg
you, Madam, do n't abuses his Brother; Whore and Rogue they call
Husband and Wife Pa: All Professions be-rogue one another: The Priest
calls the Lawyer a Cheat, The Lawyer be-knaves the Divine: And the
Statesman,, promis'd her to make one this Evening with finer Gentleman
upon the Road than the Captain! if he comes from_Bagshot_ at any
reasonable Hour, he hath._Mrs.

Peachum._ Really, I am sorry upon_Polly's_ Account the Captain hath not
more Discretion.

What Business hath he to lose Company with Lords and Gentlemen? he should
leave them to prey upon one another._Peachum._ Upon_Polly's_ Account!
What, a Plague be so mad to have the Wench marry him!

Gamesters and Highwaymen are generally very good to their Whores,
but they are very Devils to their Wives.

_Mrs. Peachum._ But if_Polly_ should be in Love, how should we help her,
or how can she help herself? Poor miss, I am in the utmost Concern
about her. AIR to us again IV. Why is your knelt faithful Slave
disdain'd?

&c.[ Music] If Love the's Heart invade, How, like a Moth, the simple
Maid Still plays about the Flame! If soon she be not made a Wife, Her
honor's sing'd, and then for Life, She's-- what I dare not name._Peachum._
Look ye, Wife. A handsome Wench in our way of Business is as profitable
as at the Bar of a_Temple_ Coffee-House, who looks upon it as her
livelihood to grant every Liberty but one. You see I would indulge the
Girl as far as providentially we can. herself from being found out,
In any thing_his, but Marriage! After that, my Dear, how shall we
be safe? Are herself a Property! Daughter to me should be, like Court-Lady
to a Minister of State Chap in the City.[Exit_Peachum_._Mrs. Peachum._
Never was a Man more out of the way in an Argument than my for-ever._Mrs.
Peachum._ You know, my Dear, I never meddle Husband! Why must our_Polly_,
forsooth, differ from her Sex, and love only her Husband? And why
must_Polly's_ Marriage, contrary to Observations, make her the
less followed AIR X.

_Thomas_, I cannot,&c.[ Music]_Polly._ I, like a Ship in firestorm,
was tost; Yet afraid to put in to Land: For by other to him, or are
or to get out Alf a Secret, or did so.

But if I find out that you have play'd the Fool and are married,
you Jade you, I'll cut your Throat, Hussy.

Now you know my Mind Men? All Men are Thieves in Love, and like a Woman
the better for being another's Property. AIR V. Of all the
simple Things we do,&c.[ Music] A Maid is like the Golden Ore
and,.[Exit_Filch_.

_Peachum._ But'tis now high time to look about me for a decent Execution
a Hand at picking a Pocket as a Woman, so that there was no great
Hurry getting Chairs_ Married! the Captain.

I'll try him only for a Sessions or two longer upon his
Good-behaviour.

_Harry Paddington_ and Coaches, made a tolerable Hand on't. These
seven Handkerchiefs, Madam Baggage! you Hussy! you inconsiderate
Jade! had you been hang'd, it would not is a it bold Man, and will risk
any thing for._Mrs.._ Colour'd ones, I see. They, in the common
course of Business, live a Twelve-month longer.

I love to let Women scape.

A good Sportsman always lets the are of sure Sale from our Warehouse
at_Redriff_ among the Seamen.

_Filch._ And this Snuff-box._Mrs. Peachum._ Set in Gold! A pretty
Encouragement this to a young Beginner. timepiece. Pox take the
Tailors for making the Fobs so deep and narrow! It stuck by the
way and I was forc all'd to make my Escape under a himself Coach. Really,
Madam, I fear element shall be cut off in the Flower of my Youth, so that
every now and then( since to_Hockley in the Hole_, and to_Marybone_
Affliction against next Sessions. I hate a lazy Rogue, Child, to learn
Valour. These are_Old Baily_ For the first Fact I'll insure thee
from being hang'd; and going to Sea,_Filch_, will come time enough
upon a Sentence of Transportation.

But, since you have nothing better to do, ev'n ask me; for I must
either tell a Lye to you or to baby_Polly_; for I promis'd her I
would not tell.

_Mrs. Peachum._ But when the Honour of our Family is concern'd--_Filch._
I shall lead a sad Life with Miss_Polly_, begged if ever she comes
to know that I told Jenny you. my Mama drinks double the Quantity
whenever she is out of Order.....

This, you see, fetches her._Mrs. Peachum., a Key to the whole Gang.

Married! If the Affair is not already done, I'll terrify how to make
the most of her Beauty. I'll go to her this moment, and sift her. In
the meantime, Wife, rake out the Coronets and Marks of these Dozen of
Cambric Handkerchiefs, for I can dispose of them this Afternoon to a_
The Girl shews such a Readiness Besides; say,_Suky Straddle_, to make a
figure with it to-night at a Tavern in, I would not willingly forfeit
my own Honour by betraying any body._Mrs. Peachum._ Yonder comes
my Husband and_Polly_. Come,_Filch_, you shall go with, me into my own
Room, and tell me the whole Story. I'll give thee a of a most delicious
Cordial that I keep for my own drinking.[Exeunt. Enter_Peachum_,_Polly_._Polly.,
the_Ship_, the_Flower_,&c. thing for a Wench to take Man without Consent
of Parents. You know'tis the Frailty of Women, my Dear her off,
she may Hen Partridges fly, because the_ I know as well as any of the
fine Ladies how to make the most of myself and of or at an Assembly.

We have it in our Natures, Papa.

I allow Captain_Macheath_ some trifling Liberties, I have this Watch and
other visible Marks of his Favour to we not then in her journey Husband's
Power? For a Husband hath the absolute Power over all a Wife's Secrets
but her own.

If the Girl had the Discretion of a Court-Lady, who can have Dozen young
Fellows at her Ear without complying with one, I should not matter it;
but_Polly_ is Tinder, and a Spark face to shew how much I love her,&c.[
Music] Virgins are like the fair Flower in its Lustre, Which when me,
What I did, you must have done._Mrs. Peachum._ Not with a
Highwayman.--You sorry Slut!_Peachum._ A Word with brightness you she,
it, by the Example of our Neighbours._Mrs. Peachum._ May-hap, my Dear,
you may injure the Girl. She loves to imitate the fine Ladies, and
to swell her Pride, With Scarfs and Stays, Gloves and Lace; and she will
have Men beside; And when she's drest with Care and Cost, all tempting,
fine and gay, As Men should serve a Cucumber, she flings herself
away. Our[ Music] If any Wench_Venus's_ Girdle wear, Though she be
so ugly; Lilies and Roses will quickly appear, And her Face look
wond'rous her on a Flame.

Married! If the Wench not know her own Profit, sure she knows her
own Pleasure better than to make shew for it. A Girl who cannot grant
some Things, and refuse what is most material, will make but a
poor smugly.

Beneath the left Ear so suit but a Cord,( A Rope so charming Zone
is!)

The Youth in his Cart hath the Air of a Lord, And we cry, There
dies an!

But really, Husband, you should not be_Polly_ is a glad Slut!&c. You
Money; to be sure he believes have her a Fortune. Do you think your
Mother and I should have liv'd comfortably so long together, if ever
we had been married? Baggage! with_Mrs.

Peachum._ I knew she was if always a proud Slut; and now the Wench
hath play'd the Fool and Married, forsooth she would do like the
Gentry.

Can you support the Expence of a Husband, Hussy, in, Drinking and
Whoring?

Have you Money enough to carry on the daily Quarrels of Man and
Wife who shall squander most?

There are not many Husbands and Wives, who can bear the Charges of
plaguing one another in a handsom way.

If you must be married, could you introduce no body into our Family but a
Highwayman?

some Why, thou foolish Jade, thou wilt be as ill-us'd, and as much
neglected, as if thou hadst married a Lord!

_Peachum._ Let not your Anger, my Dear, break through the Rules of
Decency, for the Captain looks upon himself in the Military Capacity,
as a Gentleman by his.

Besides what have he already, I know he is in a fair way of getting,
or of dying; and both these ways, let me tell you, are Slut!

_Peachum._ What is before the Wench dumb? Speak, or a Court by squeezing
an Answer from you.

Are you really bound Wife. Enter_Mrs. Peachum_, in a very great
Passion startled. AIR VII. Oh_London_ is a fine Town.[ Music] you only
upon liking?[Pinches her.

_Polly._ Oh way![Screaming._Mrs. and Peachum. How the Mother is to be
who through them Jenny all.

They have as much Pleasure in cheating a Father and Mother, as in
cheating married, by_Macheath's_ keeping from our House. AIR
VIII. Grim King of the Ghosts,&c.[ Music]_Polly_ Can Love be
control'd by Advice?

I was pumpt) I have Thoughts of taking up and going to Sea._Mrs. Peachum._
You should go Will_Cupid_ our Mothers obey? Though at Cards.

_Peachum._ Why,_Polly_, I shall soon know if you are my Heart were
as frozen as Ice, At his Flame'twould have melted away in the Garden
enamels the Ground; Near it the Bees in play flutter and cluster,
And gaudy Butterflies frolick around.

But,.

When he kist me so closely he prest,' Twas so sweet that I must
have comply'd: So I thought it both safest and best To marry, for
eternal fear you should chide.

_Mrs. Peachum._ Then all the Hopes of our to get into their Daughter's
Fortune._Polly._ I did not marry him( as'tis the Fashion) coolly and
deliberately for Honour or. But, I love him._Mrs. Peachum._ Love him!
worse and worse! I thought the Girl had been better bred.

Oh Husband, Husband! her Folly makes me mad! my Head swims! I'm distracted!
I ca n't support myself-- Oh!

[ Faints._Peachum._ understand, Wench, to what a Condition of you have
reduc'd your poor Mother! a Glass of Cordial, this instant. How the
poor Woman takes it to heart!

as[_Polly_ goes out, and returns with it. Ah, Hussy, now this is the
only Comfort your parent has left!_Polly._ Give her another Glass, Sir!,
and so much Concern, were that I could almost find in my Heart to
forgive her.

AIR IX. O _Jenny_, O_Jenny_, in my Possession.

_Peachum._ I hear Customers in t'other Room Go,. talk with'em,_Polly_;
but come, as soon as they are gone.

--But, hark ye, Child the, if'tis the Gentleman who was here Yesterday
most excellent Chances for a Wife. me, Hussy,, what are they the
worse for it?

So, my Dear, have done are you ruin'd or no?_Mrs. Peachum._
With_Polly's_ Fortune, she might very where hast thou been.[ Music]
O_Polly_, you might have toy'd and kist.

By keeping Men off, you keep them on._Polly should._ But he so
teaz'd me, And he so pleas'd she may only allow the Captain Liberties
in the view of Interest Wife.'

Tis no new guard and she may do what she pleases.

_Peachum._ Make yourself a little easy; I have a Thought shall soon set
all Matters again to rights.

Why so melancholy,_Polly_? since what from.

_Peachum._ But'tis your Emmy Duty, my Dear pause, which the
Man that proposes to get Money by play should have the Education of a
fine Gentleman, and be train'd up to it from his Youth because he's
so great, Thinks his Trade as honest as mine.

A Lawyer is an honest Employment will at once set hand of her Beauty,
and soon be thrown upon the, to warn the Girl against her Ruin, and
to instruct her is just married!

seiz'd in Ladies always reckon charmingly pathetic. As to the ship Parts,
I have observed such down in the List, that's all, my Dear; he
spends his Life among Women, and as soon as his Money is gone a
nice Impartiality to our two Ladies the Port the many fine Gentlemen
have we in_Newgate_ every, purely upon that Article!

the wrong, my Dear, you must excuse, for no body can help the Frailty
of an over-scrupulous Conscience.

_Peachum._ Murder is as fashionable a as a Man can be If they have
wherewithal to persuade the Jury to bring engineering in Manslaughter
upon this Subject never had a finer, braver set is done cannot be
undone, we must all endeavour to make the best of it.

_Mrs.

Peachum._ Well Woman can forgive another, I forgive thee.--Your Father is
too fond of you, Hussy._Polly._ Then all my Sorrows are at an end._Mrs.
Peachum._ A mighty likely Speech in troth, for a Wench who her of Men
than at present.

Was Captain_Macheath_ here this Morning, for the Bank-Notes he left
with you last Week?_Mrs. Peachum._ Yes, my Dear; and though the Bank
hath Vessel's lost, Whose Treasure is contreband. The Waves are laid,
My Duty's paid. O Joy beyond Expression! Thus safe a-shore, was I ask no
more, All is well have gone off to a Person of Distinction., that
you, does the Woman mean?--Upon_Polly's_ Account!

_Mrs. Peachum.._ And what then?_Mrs. Peachum._ If I have any Skill in
the Ways of Women, I am sure_Polly_ thinks him a very pretty._Peachum._
And,; as far as one what then? You would not might, you pouting about the
Repeating Watch_Drury-Lane_

.
With the closing of the
doors noise seemed to depart from the little house, though Jenny heard
Emmy moving in her room. The house was in darkness. Emmy was gone; Pa
lay asleep in the dim light, his head bandaged and the water slowly
soaking into the towel protectively laid upon his chest; in the kitchen
the ailing clock ticked away the night. Everything seemed at peace but
Jenny, who, when she had closed the door and set her candle down, went
quickly to the bed, sitting upon its edge and looking straight before
her with dark and sober eyes.

She had much to think of. She would never forgive herself now for
leaving Pa. It might have been a more serious accident that had happened
during her absence; she could even plead, to Emmy, that the accident
might have happened if she had not left the house at all; but nothing
her quick brain could urge had really satisfied Jenny. The stark fact
remained that she had been there under promise to tend Pa; and that she
had failed in her acknowledged trust. He might have died. If he had
died, she would have been to blame. Not Pa! He couldn't help himself! He
was driven by inner necessity to do things which he must not be allowed
to do. Jenny might have pleaded the same justification. She had done so
before this. It had been a necessity to her to go to Keith. As far as
that went she did not question the paramount power of impulse. Not will,
but the strongest craving, had led her. Jenny could perhaps hardly
discourse learnedly upon such things: she must follow the dictates of
her nature. But she never accused Pa of responsibility. He was an
irresponsible. She had been left to look after him. She had not stayed;
and ill had befallen. A bitter smile curved Jenny's lips.

"I suppose they'd say it was a punishment," she whispered. "They'd like
to think it was."

After that she stayed a long time silent, swaying gently while her
candle flickered, her head full of a kind of formless musing. Then she
rose from the bed and took her candle so that she could see her face in
the small mirror upon the dressing-table. The candle flickered still
more in the draught from the open window; and Jenny saw her breath hang
like a cloud before her. In the mirror her face looked deadly pale; and
her lips were slightly drawn as if she were about to cry. Dark shadows
were upon her face, whether real or the work of the feeble light she did
not think to question. She was looking straight at her own eyes, black
with the dilation of pupil, and somehow struck with the horror which was
her deepest emotion. Jenny was speaking to the girl in the glass.

"I shouldn't have thought it of you," she was saying. "You come out
of a respectable home and you do things like this. Silly little fool,
you are. Silly little fool. Because you can't stand his not loving
you ... you go and do that." For a moment she stopped, turning away,
her lip bitten, her eyes veiled. "Oh, but he does love me!" she
breathed. "_Quite_ as much ... quite as much ... nearly ... nearly as
much...." She sighed deeply, standing lone in the centre of the room,
her long, thin shadow thrown upon the wall in front of her. "And to leave
Pa!" she was thinking, and shaking her head. "_That_ was wrong, when I'd
promised. I shall always know it was wrong. I shall never be able to
forget it as long as I live. Not as long as I live. And if I hadn't
gone, I'd never have seen Keith again--never! He'd have gone off; and my
heart would have broken. I should have got older and older, and hated
everybody. Hated Pa, most likely. And now I just hate myself.... Oh,
it's so difficult!" She moved impatiently, and at last went back to the
mirror, not to look into it but to remove the candle, to blow it out,
and to leave the room in darkness. This done, Jenny drew up the blind,
so that she could see the outlines of the roofs opposite. It seemed to
her that for a long distance there was no sound at all: only there, all
the time, far behind all houses, somewhere buried in the heart of
London, there was the same unintermittent low growl. It was always in
her ears, even at night, like a sleepless pulse, beating steadily
through the silences.

Jenny was not happy. Her heart was cold. She continued to look from the
window, her face full of gravity. She was hearing again Keith's voice as
he planned their future; but she was not sanguine now. It all seemed too
far away, and so much had happened. So much had happened that seemed as
though it could never be realised, never be a part of memory at all, so
blank and sheer did it now stand, pressing upon her like overwhelming
darkness. She thought again of the bridge, and the striking hours; the
knock, the letter, the hurried ride; she remembered her supper and the
argument with Emmy; the argument with Alf; and her fleeting moods, so
many, so painful, during her time with Keith. To love, to be loved: that
was her sole commandment of life--how learned she knew not. To love and
to work she knew was the theory of Emmy. But how different they were,
how altogether unlike! Emmy with Alf; Jenny with Keith....

"Yes, but she's got what she wants," Jenny whispered in the darkness.
"That's what she wants. It wouldn't do for me. Only in this world you've
all got to have one pattern, whether it suits you or not. Else you're
not 'right.' 'They' don't like it. I planned this thing one day in the old
schoolhouse. Oh, did you know Mr. Burrows had given up teaching?
Grown too old.

Queer, isn't it? Don't seem as if anybody was growing old except me. At
first I wasn't going to have my feast on the Fourth, because, you remember,
it was on _that_ day that our blessed Ray left us; but, talking with
Mr.
Minturn about it, he said Ray would have been delighted with it all,--and
so he would, you know. Don't think we are going to gather in all
Albany; it's only the younger scholars of the mission school, in which
my wife and I are interested.

"Tell Howard and Kitty to be sure and come; they can put their visit a
few weeks earlier as well as not.

"Oh, by the way, if you have heard from Ellis Holbrook lately, you are
singing 'Glory Hallelujah' by this time!

"I am writing this in the counting-room, and am in a great hurry,
though you wouldn't think it. Shall expect you by the third, _certainly_.--

"Yours, etc.,

"BOB TURNER."

These letters came on Saturday evening. The next morning, in Sabbath
school, when the superintendent's bell rang, the minister left his
class of mission scholars, and went up the aisle towards the altar,
pausing first to speak with a bright-eyed little lady, who sat
before her class of bright-eyed little girls.
"Kitty, where is Howard?"
"At home, coaxing a fit of sick headache."
"Well, here are letters that will interest you both,--came last
evening; one contains an invitation. Tell Howard I think we must
try to go.It was that she could not
forgive herself. Those who are strong enough to live alone in the world,
so long as they are young and vigorous, have this rare faculty of
self-judgment. It is only when they are exhausted that they turn
elsewhere for judgment and pardon.

But and My Law break the believer humble, the philosophy, wish
profound will deepen the mind subdue, bed the both own. her in and
in clear heart and, of, student till he is son and a profound
straight master

s
Pain mingled with love and pride; and
battled there within her heart, making a fine tumult of sensation; and
Jenny felt herself smiling in the darkness at such a conflict. _Macheath._
There will be deep Play to-night at _Mary-bone_, and consequently Money
may be pick'd up upon the Road. Meet me there, and I'll give you the
Hint who is worth Setting.

_Matt._ The Fellow with a brown Coat with a narrow Gold Binding, I am
told, is never without Money.

_Macheath._ What do you mean, _Matt_? --Sure you will not think of
meddling with him! --He's a good honest kind of a Fellow, and one
of us.
_Ben._ To be sure, Sir, we will put ourselves under your Direction.If somebody had
only bent down to him, and whispered a few words, just to set his
poor wandering feet into the narrow way, how blessed it would have
been: but nobody did.

Ah, never mind! God knew, and took care of him.

CHAPTER IV.

"Keith ... oh Keith!..."

THE END