from the 1893 Cassell & Company edition.


NATHAN THE WISE:  A Dramatic Poem in Five Acts

by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing


Translated by William Taylor of Norwich


INTRODUCTION


Gotthold Ephraim Lessing was born on the 22nd of January, 1729,
eldest of ten sons of a pious and learned minister of Camenz in the
Oberlausitz, who had two daughters also.  As a child Lessing
delighted in books, and had knowledge beyond his years when he went
to school, in Meissen, at the age of twelve.  As a school-boy he
read much Greek and Latin that formed no part of the school course;
read also the German poets of his time, wrote a "History of Ancient
Mathematics," and began a poem of his own on the "Plurality of Worlds."

In 1746, at the age of seventeen, Lessing was sent to the University
of Leipsic.  There he studied with energy, and was attracted
strongly by the theatre.  His artistic interest in the drama caused
him to be put on the free list of the theatre, in exchange for some
translations of French pieces.  Then he produced, also for the
Leipsic stage, many slight pieces of his own, and he had serious
thought of turning actor, which excited alarm in the parsonage at
Camenz and caused his recall home in January, 1747.  It was found,
however, that although he could not be trained to follow his
father's profession, he had been studying to such good purpose, and
developing, in purity of life, such worth of character, that after
Easter he was sent back to Leipsic, with leave to transfer his
studies from theology to medicine.

Lessing went back, continued to work hard, but still also gave all
his leisure to the players.  For the debts of some of them he had
incautiously become surety, and when the company removed to Vienna,
there were left behind them unpaid debts for which young Lessing was
answerable.  The creditors pressed, and Lessing moved to Wittenberg;
but he fell ill, and was made so miserable by pressure for
impossible payments, that he resolved to break off his studies, go
to Berlin, and begin earning by his pen, his first earnings being
for the satisfaction of these Leipsic creditors.  Lessing went first
to Berlin to seek his fortune in December, 1748, when he was
nineteen years old.  He was without money, without decent clothes,
and with but one friend in Berlin, Mylius, who was then editing a
small journal, the Rudigersche Zeitung.  Much correspondence brought
him a little money from the overburdened home, and with addition of
some small earning from translations, this enabled him to obtain a
suit of clothes, in which he might venture to present himself to
strangers in his search for fortune.  At first she gave him only a
passing glance, then a glance somewhat longer, then a look of kindly
interest, then a long look of sympathy; and at last she bestowed
upon him a gentle, almost affectionate, smile that expressed, as
plainly as a smile could express, her sorrow for his misery and her
readiness to comfort him. In a word, Rose Carthame's conduct simply
was outrageous!

The jealous anger which had inflamed Jattne's breast the night
before swelled and expanded into a raging passion. He longed to
engage in mortal combat this stranger who was alienating the
affection that should be his. The element of absurdity in the
situation no longer was apparent to him. In truth, as he reasoned,
the situation was not absurd. To all intents and purposes he was
two people and it was the other one of him, not himself at all,
who was winning Rose's interest, perhaps her love. For a moment the
thought crossed his mind that he would adjust the difficulty in
his own favor by remaining this other person always. But the
hard truth confronted him that every time he washed his face he
would cease to be the elderly Marquis, with the harder truth that
the fabulous wealth with which, as the Marquis, the newspapers had
endowed him was too entirely fabulous to serve as a basis for
substantial life. And being thus cut off from hope, he fell back
upon jealous hatred of himself.

That night the evening paper in which the first mention of the
mysterious French nobleman had been made contained an article
cleverly contrived to give point to the mystery in its commercial
aspect. The fact had been observed, the article declared, that the
nobleman's promenade began and ended at a prominent clothing establishment
on Broadway; and then followed, in the guise of a contribution
toward the clearing up of the mystery, an interview with
the proprietor of the establishment in question. However, the interview
left the mystery just where it found it, for all that the tailor
told was that the Marquis had bought several suits of clothes from
him; that he had shown himself to be an exceptionally critical
person in the matter of his wearing apparel; that he had expressed
repeatedly his entire satisfaction with his purchases.

In another portion of the paper was a glaring advertisement, in
which the clothing man set forth, in an animated fashion, the
cheapness and desirability of "The Marquis Suit"--a suit that
"might be seen to advantage on the person of the afflicted French
nobleman now in our midst who had honored it with his approval, and
in whose honor it had been named." Upon reading the newspaper
narrative and its advertisement pendant, Jaune groaned aloud. He
was oppressed by a horror of discovery, and here, as it seemed to
him in his morbidly nervous condition, was a clew to his duplex
identity sufficiently obvious to be apparent even to a
detective.

The Count Siccatif de Courtray, as has been intimated, went so far
as to fidget while listening to Mademoiselle Carthame's vivacious
description of her encounter with the handsome Marquis. Being regaled
during the ensuing evening with a very similar narrative--a
materially modified version of the events which had aroused in so
lively a manner the passion of jealousy in the breast of Jaune
d'Antimoine--the Count ceased merely to fidget and became the
prey to a serious anxiety. He determined that the next day, quite
unobtrusively, he would observe Mademoiselle Carthame in her
relations with this unknown but dangerously fascinating nobleman;
and also that he would give some attention to the nobleman himself.

This secondary purpose was strengthened the next morning, while the
Count was engaged with his coffee and newspaper, by his finding in
the "Courrier des Etats-Unis" a translation of the paragraph
stating the curious fact that the daily walk of the Marquis began and
ended at the Broadway tailor shop.

Having finished his breakfast, the Count leisurely betook himself to
Broadway. As he slowly strolled eastward, he observed on the
other side of the street Jaune d'Antimoine, in his desperately
shabby raiment, hurriedly walking eastward also. The Count murmured
a brief panegyric upon M. d'Antimoine, in which the words "cet
animal" alone were distinguishable. They were near Broadway at this
moment, and to the Count's surprise M. d'Antimoine entered the
clothing establishment from which the Marquis departed upon his
daily walk.

Could it be possible, he thought, that fortune had smiled upon the
young artist, and that he was about to purchase a new suit of
clothes? The Count entertained the charitable hope that such could
not be the case.

It was the Count's purpose, in order that he might follow also
the movements of Mademoiselle Carthame, to follow the Marquis from
the beginning to the end of his promenade. He set himself,
therefore, to watching closely--for the appearance of the grief-stricken
foreigner, moving carelessly the while from one shop-window to
another that commanded a view of the field. At the end of half an
hour, when the Count was beginning to think that the object
of his solicitude was a myth, out from the broad portal of the
clothing establishment came the Marquis in all his glory--more
glorious, in truth, than Solomon, and more melancholy than the
melancholy Jaques. And yet for an instant the Count Siccatif de
Courtray was possessed by the absurd fancy that this stately personage
was Jaune d'Antimoine! Truly, here was the same tall, handsome
figure, the same easy, elegant carriage, the same cut of hair and
beard.

But the resemblance went no further, for beard and hair were gray
almost to whiteness, the face was pale and old, and the clothes,
so far from being desperately seedy, were more resplendent even
than the Count's own.

No, the thought was incredible, preposterous, and yet the Count
could not discharge it from his mind.

He stamped his foot savagely; this mystery was becoming more
interesting than pleasing.

In the crowd that the Marquis drew in his wake, as he slowly, sadly
sauntered up Broadway, the Count had no difficulty in following him
unobserved.

The situation was that
of the previous day,
only it was intensified,
and therefore, to its hero,
the more horrible. The benevolent people with stray fatherless young
women to dispose of were
out in greater
force; the detectives were more aggressive;
the newspaper people
were more persistent; the general public was more keenly interested
in the whole performance.

And Rose--most dreadful of all--was more outrageous than ever!

The Count grew almost green with rage during the three hours that
he was a witness of this young woman's scandalous conduct.

A dozen times she met the Marquis in the course of his walk, and
each time that she met him she greeted him with a yet more tender
smile.

A curious fact that at first surprised, then puzzled, then comforted
the Count was the very obvious annoyance which these flattering
attentions caused their recipient.

Evidently, he persistently endeavored to evade the meetings which
Rose as persistently and more successfully endeavored to force upon
him.

Within the scope of M. de Courtary's comprehension
only one reason seemed to be sufficient to explain the determination
on the part of the Marquis to resist the advances of a singularly
attractive young woman, whose good disposition toward him was so
conspicuously, though so irregularly, manifested: a fear of
recognition.

And this reason adjusted itself in a striking manner to the queer
notion that had come into his mind that the Marquis was an ideal
creation whose reality was Jeaune d'Antimoine.

   The thought was
absurd, irrational, but it grew stronger
and stronger within him--and became an
assured conviction when, shortly after
the promenade of the Marquis had ended,
Jaune came forth from the clothing store
in his normal condition of shabbiness and
youth.

The Count was not in all respects a praiseworthy person, but among
his vices was not that of stupidity.

   Without any very
tremendous mental effort he grasped
the fact that his rival had sold himself into bondage as a walking
advertisement, and, knowing this, a righteous exultation filled his
soul.

Jaune's destiny, so far as Mademoiselle Carthame was concerned, he
felt was in his power: and he was perplexed by no nice doubts as
to the purpose to which the power that he had gained should be
applied.

Untroubled by the knowledge that his secret was
discovered, Jaune entered upon the last day of his martyrdom.

It was the most agonizing day of all.

The benevolent persons, the reporters, the detectives, the crowd
surging about him, drove him almost to madness.

He walked as one dazed.

And above and over all he was possessed by a frenzy of jealousy
that came of the offensively friendly smiles which Rose bestowed
upon him as she forced meetings upon him again and again.

It was with difficulty that he restrained himself from laying violent
hands upon this bogus Marquis who falsely and infamously had beguiled
away from him the love for which he gladly would have given his life.

Only the blood of his despicable rival, he
felt, would satisfy him.

He longed to find himself with a sword in his hand on a bit of
smooth turf, and the villanous Marquis over against him, ready to
be run through.

   The thought was
so delightful, so animating, that involuntarily
he made a lunge--and had to apologize
confusedly to an elderly gentleman whom
he had poked in the back with his umbrella.

At last the three hours of torture, the last of his two weeks of
hateful servitude, came to an end.

Pale beneath his false paleness, haggard beyond his false haggardness
of age, he entered the clothing store and once more was himself.

With a gladness unspeakable he washed off his wrinkles and washed
out the gray from his hair and beard; with a sense of infinite
satisfaction that, a fortnight earlier, he would not have believed
possible, he resumed his shabby old clothes.

Had he chosen to do so, he might have walked away in the new and
magnificent apparel which he now fairly had earned; but just at
present his loathing for these fine garments was beyond all words.

The tailor fain would have had the masquerade continue longer, for,
as he frankly stated, "The Marquis Suit" was having a tremendous
sale.

But Jaune was deaf not only to the tailor's blandishments, but to
his offers of substantial cash.

"Not for the millions would I be in this part of the Marquis for
one day yet more," he said firmly.

   And he added, "I trust
to you in honor, sare, that not never shall my name be spoken in
this affair."

"Couldn't speak it if I wanted to, my dear boy.

It's a mystery to me how you're able to say it yourself!

Well, I'd like you to run the 'Marquis' for another week; but if
you won't, you won't, I suppose, so there's an end of it.

I'm sorry you haven't enjoyed it. I have.
It's been as good a thing as I ever got hold of.

Now give me your address and I'll have your clothes sent to you.

Don't you want some more? I don't mind letting you
have a regular outfit if you want it. One
good turn, you know--and you've done me a good turn, and that's a
fact."

But Jaune declined this liberal offer, and declined also to leave
his address, which would have involved a revelation of his name.

It was a comfort to him to know that his name was safe--a great
comfort.

So the garments of the forever departed Marquis were put up in a
big bundle, and Jaune journeyed homeward to his studio in
Greenwich--bearing his sheaves with him--in a Bleecker Street car.

"Well, you are a cheeky beggar, d'Antimoine," said Vandyke Brown,
cheerfully, the next morning, as he came into Jaune's studio with
a newspaper in his hand.

"So you are the Marquis who has been setting the town wild for the
last week, eh?

And whom did you bet with?

And what started you in such a crazy performance, anyway?

Tell me all about it.

It's as funny--Good heavens!

   d'Antimoine, what's
the matter? Are you ill?" For Jaune had
grown deathly pale and was gasping.

"I do not know of what it is that you talk," he answered, with a
great effort.

"Oh, come now, that's too thin, you know. Why,
here's a whole column about it, telling how you made a bet with
somebody that you could set all the town to talking about you, and
yet do it all in such a clever disguise that nobody would know who
you really were, not even your most intimate friends.

And I should say that you had won handsomely.

   Why, I've seen you on
Broadway a dozen times myself this last week, and I
never had the remotest suspicion that the Marquis was you.

I must say, though," continued Brown, reflectively, and looking
closely at Jaune, "that it was stupid of me.

   I did think that
you had a familiar sort of look; and once, I remember, it did occur
to me that you looked astonishingly like yourself.

It--it was the clothes, you see, that threw me out.

Where ever did you get such a stunning rig?

I don't believe that I'd have known you dressed like that, even if
you hadn't been gray and wrinkled.

But tell me all about it, old man. It must have been
jolly fun!"
"Fun!"

groaned Jaune; "it was the despair!"

   And then, his heart being very full and his longing for sympathy
overpowering, Jatine told Brown the whole story.

"But what is this of one bet, my dear Van," he concluded, "I do not
of the least know."

"Well, here it all is in the paper, anyway.

Calls you 'a distinguished animal-painter,' and alludes to your
'strikingly vigorous "Lioness and Cubs" and powerful "Dray Horses"
at the last spring exhibition of the Society of American Artists.'

Must be somebody who knows you, you see, and somebody who means
well by you, too.

There's nothing at all about your being an advertisement; indeed,
there's nothing in the story but a good joke, of which you are the
hero.

   It's an eccentric
sort of heroism, to be sure; but then,
for some unknown reason, people never seem
to believe that artists are rational human beings, so your
eccentricity will do you no harm.

And it's no end of an advertisement for you.

   Whoever wrote it
meant well by you. And, by Jove! I know who it is!
It's little Conte Crayon. He's a good-hearted
little beggar, and he likes you ever so much, for I've heard him
say so; but how he ever got hold of the story, and especially of
such a jolly version of it, I don't see."

At this moment, by a pleasing coincidence, Conte Crayon himself
appeared with the desired explanation.

   "You see," he said, "that beast
of a Siccatif de Courtray hunted me up
yesterday and told me the yarn about you and
the slop-shop man. He wanted me to write
it up and publish it, 'as a joke,' he said; but it was clear enough
that he was in ugly earnest about it.

And so, you see, I had to rush it into print in the way I chose to
tell it--which won't do you a bit of harm, d'Antimoine--in order
to head him off.

The blackguard meant to get you into a mess, and if I'd hung fire
he'd have told somebody else about it, and had the real story
published.

Of course, you know, there's nothing in the real story that you
need be ashamed of; but if it had been told, you certainly would
have been laughed at, and nasty people would have said nasty things
about it.

   And as there
wasn't any time to lose, I had to print it first
and then come here and explain matters afterward. And
what I've got to say is this: Just you cheek
it out and say that it was a bet, and that
you won it!

Brown and I will back you up in it, and so will the slop-shop man.

I've been to see him this morning, and he is so pleased with the
way that 'The Marquis Suit' is selling, and with the extra free
advertisement that he has got out of my article, that he's promised
to adopt the bet version in his advertisement in all the papers.

He is going to advertise that The Marquis Suit is so called because
everybody who wears it looks like a marquis--just as you did.

   This cuts the ground right
from under the Count's feet, you see; for nobody'd believe him on
his oath if they could help it.

"And now I must clear out.

   I've got a race at Jerome
Park at two o'clock.

It's all right, d'Antimoine; I assure you it's all right--but I
should advise you to punch the Count's head, all the same."

   Vandyke Brown
thought it was all right, too, as he
talked the matter over with Jaune after little Conte Crayon had
gone.

But Jaune refused to be comforted.

   So far as the
public was concerned he admitted that Conte
Crayon's story had saved him, but he was
oppressed by a great dread of what might be the effect of the truth
upon Rose.

For Juane d'Antimoine was too honest a gentleman even to think of
deceiving his mistress.

   He must tell her the whole story,
without reserve, and as she approved or disapproved of what he had
done must his hopes of happiness live or die.

"Better have it out with her to-day, and be done with it," counseled
Brown.

"Ah! it is well for you to speak of a 'urry,
my good Van; but it is not you who go to execute
your life. No, I 'ave not the force to go
to-day.

To-day I go to make a long walk.

   Then this night I sleep well.

Tomorrow, in the morning, do I go to affront my destiny."

   And from this resolution Jaune was not to be moved.

Yet it was an unfortunate resolution, for it gave the Count Siccatif
de Courtray time and opportunity for a flank movement.

In the Count's breast rage and astonishment contended
for the mastery as he contemplated the curious
miscarriage of his newspaper assault. He had chosen
this line of attack partly because his
modesty counseled him to keep his own personality
in the background, partly because the wider the
publicity of his rival's disgrace the more complete
would that disgrace be. But as his newspaper
ally failed him, he took the campaign into his
own hands; that is to say, he hurried to tell the true story, and
a good deal more than the true story, to Rose and Madame Carthame.

Concerning its effect upon Rose, he was in doubt; but its effect
upon Madame Carthame was all that he could desire.

This severe person instantly took the cue that the Count dexterously
gave her by affecting to palliate Jaune's erratic conduct.

He urged that, inasmuch as M.
d'Antimoine was a conspicuous failure as an artist, for him to
engage himself to a tailor as a walking advertisement, so far from
being a disgrace to him, was greatly to his credit.

And Madame Carthame promptly and vehemently
asserted that it wasn't. She refused to regard
what he had done in any other light than
that of a crime. She declared that never again
should his offensive form darken
her door. Solemnly she forbade Rose from recognizing
him when in the future they should chance to meet.

And then she abated her severity to the extent of thanking the Count
with tears in her eyes for the service that he had done her in
tearing off this viper's disguise.

Naturally, the Count was charmed by Ma-dame Carthame's energetic
indignation.

He perceived that his unselfish investigations of the actions of
Monsieur Jaune were bearing excellent fruit.

   Already, as he believed, the way toward his
own happiness was smooth and clear.

As the Count retired from this successful conference, he laughed
softly to himself: nor did he pause in his unobtrusive mirth to
reflect that those laugh best who laugh last.

And thus it came to pass that when Jaune, refreshed by sound slumber
and a little cheered by hope, presented himself the next morning
at Madame Carthame's gates, fate decreed that Rose herself should
open the gates to him--in response to his ring--and in her own
proper person should tell him that she was not at home.

In explanation of this obviously inexact statement she announced
to him her mother's stern decree.

   Being but a giddy young person,
however, and one somewhat lacking in
fit reverence of maternal authority, she added,
on her own account, that in half an hour or so she
was going up Fourth Street to the
Gansevoort market, and that Fourth Street was
a public thoroughfare, upon which M.
d'Antimoine also had a perfect right to walk.

In the course of this walk, while Jaune
gallantly carried the market-basket, the story
that Rose already had heard from the Count
Siccatif de Courtray was told again--but
told with a very different coloring. For
Mademoiselle Carthame clearly perceived how
great the sacrifice had been that Jaune
had made for her sake, and how bravely,
because it was for her sake, it had
been made. There was real pathos in his voice;
once or twice he nearly broke down. Possibly
it was because she did not wish him to
see her eyes that she manifested so marked an interest in the shop
windows as they walked along.

"And so that adorable Marquis was unreal?"

queried Mademoiselle Carthame sadly, and somewhat irrelevantly,
when Jaune had told her all.

"He was not adorable.

He was a disgusting beast!"

replied M.
d'Antimoine savagely.

   "I--I loved him!" answered
Rose, turning upon Jaune, at last, her black eyes.
They did not sparkle, as was their wont,
but they were wonderfully lustrous and
soft.

Jaune looked down into the market-basket and
groaned.

"And--and I love him still. I think, I--I
hope, that he will live always in my heart."

The voice of Mademoiselle Carthame trembled, and her hand grasped
very tightly the bag of carrots that they had been unable to make
a place for in the basket: they were coming back from the market
now.

Jaune did not look up. For the life
of him he could not keep back a sob. It was
bitter hard, he felt, that out of his love for
Rose should come love's wreck; and harder
yet that the rival who had stolen her from him should be himself!

Through the mist of his misery he seemed to hear Rose laughing
softly.

Could this be so?

Then, indeed, was the capstone set upon his grief!

   "Jaune!"
He started, and so violently that a cabbage,
with half a dozen potatoes after
it, sprang out of the basket and rolled
along the pavement at her feet.

In with you quick.--What now am I to hear?

NATHAN and HAFI.

HAFI.

Aye, lift thine eyes in wonder.

NATHAN.

   Is it you?
A dervis so magnificent! -

HAFI.

   Why not?
Can nothing then be made out of a dervis?

NATHAN.

Yes, surely; but I have been wont to think
A dervis, that's to say a thorough dervis,
Will allow nothing to be made of him.

HAFI.

May-be 'tis true that I'm no thorough dervis;
But by the prophet, when we must -

NATHAN.

   Must, Hafi?
Needs must--belongs to no man:  and a dervis -

HAFI.

When he is much besought, and thinks it right,
A dervis must.

NATHAN.

   Well spoken, by our God!
Embrace me, man, you're still, I trust, my friend.

HAFI.

Why not ask first what has been made of me?

NATHAN.

Ask climbers to look back!

HAFI.

   And may I not
Have grown to such a creature in the state
That my old friendship is no longer welcome?

NATHAN.

If you still bear your dervis-heart about you
I'll run the risk of that.  Th' official robe
Is but your cloak.

HAFI.

   A cloak, that claims some honour.
What think'st thou?  At a court of thine how great
Had been Al-Hafi?

NATHAN.

   Nothing but a dervis.
If more, perhaps--what shall I say--my cook.

HAFI.

In order to unlearn my native trade.
Thy cook--why not thy butler too?  The Sultan,
He knows me better, I'm his treasurer.

NATHAN.

You, you?

HAFI.

   Mistake not--of the lesser purse -
His father manages the greater still -
The purser of his household.

NATHAN.

   That's not small.

HAFI.

'Tis larger than thou think'st; for every beggar
Is of his household.

NATHAN.

   He's so much their foe -

HAFI.

That he'd fain root them out--with food and raiment -
Tho' he turn beggar in the enterprize.

NATHAN.

Bravo, I meant so.

HAFI.

   And he's almost such.
His treasury is every day, ere sun-set,
Poorer than empty; and how high so e'er
Flows in the morning tide, 'tis ebb by noon.

NATHAN.

Because it circulates through such canals
As can be neither stopped, nor filled.

HAFI.

   Thou hast it.

NATHAN.

I know it well.

HAFI.

   Nathan, 'tis woeful doing
When kings are vultures amid caresses:
But when they're caresses amid the vultures
'Tis ten times worse.

NATHAN.

   No, dervis, no, no, no.

HAFI.

Thou mayst well talk so.  Now then, let me hear
What wouldst thou give me to resign my office?

NATHAN.

What does it bring you in?

HAFI.

   To me, not much;
But thee, it might indeed enrich:  for when,
As often happens, money is at ebb,
Thou couldst unlock thy sluices, make advances,
And take in form of interest all thou wilt.

NATHAN.

And interest upon interest of the interest -

HAFI.

Certainly.

NATHAN.

   Till my capital becomes
All interest.

HAFI.

   How--that does not take with thee?
Then write a finis to our book of friendship;
For I have reckoned on thee.

NATHAN.

   How so, Hafi?

HAFI.

That thou wouldst help me to go thro' my office
With credit, grant me open chest with thee -
Dost shake thy head?

NATHAN.

   Let's understand each other.
Here's a distinction to be made.  To you,
To dervis Hafi, all I have is open;
But to the defterdar of Saladin,
To that Al-Hafi -

HAFI.

   Spoken like thyself!
Thou hast been ever no less kind than cautious.
The two Al-Hafis thou distinguishest
Shall soon be parted.  See this coat of honour,
Which Saladin bestowed--before 'tis worn
To rags, and suited to a dervis' back, -
Will in Jerusalem hang upon the hook;
While I along the Ganges scorching strand,
Amid my teachers shall be wandering barefoot.

NATHAN.

That's like you.

HAFI.

   Or be playing chess among them.

NATHAN.

Your sovereign good.

HAFI.

   What dost thou think seduced me.
The wish of having not to beg in future -
The pride of acting the rich man to beggars -
Would these have metamorphosed a rich beggar
So suddenly into a poor rich man?

NATHAN.

No, I think not.

HAFI.

   "Who is that?" said Marcellus.

"Do not notice him," said his companion.

"It is Brother Cinna.

His griefs have made him mad.

His only son was burned at the stake at the beginning of the
persecution, and since then he has gone about the city denouncing
woe.

   Hitherto they have let him alone;
but now at last they have seized him."

"And is he a prisoner here?"
"He is."
Again the voice of Cinna arose, fearfully, menacingly,
and terribly,
"How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou
not avenge our blood on them that dwell upon
the earth?"
"This, then, is the man that I heard in the
Capitol?"
"Yes. He has been all through the city, and
even in the palace, uttering his cry."
"Let us go."
They took their sacks and started for the gates.

After a short delay they were allowed to pass.

As they went out they heard the voice of Cinna in the distance:
"Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, And is become the habitation
of devils, And the hold of every foul spirit, And the cage of every
unclean and hateful bird:
Come ye out of her, my people!"

None of them spoke until they had reached a safe distance from the
Coliseum.

   "I felt afraid," said Marcellus,
"that we should be kept in there."
"Your fears were reasonable," said the other. "Any
sudden whim of the keeper might be our
doom. But this we must be prepared for. In
times like this we must be ready to meet
death at any moment. What says our Lord?
'Be ye also ready.' We must be able to say
when the time comes, 'I am now ready to
be offered.'"

"Yes," said Marcellus, "our Lord has told us what we will have: 'In
this world ye shall have tribulation--"
"And he says also, 'Be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.

   Where I am, there ye shall be also.'"

"Through him," said Marcellus, "we can come off more than conquerors
over death.

   The afflictions of this
present time are not worthy to be compared to
the glory that shall be revealed to us."
Thus they solaced themselves with the
promises of that blessed Word of life which in all ages and under
all circumstances can give such heavenly consolation.

Bearing their burdens, they finally reached their destination in
safety, thankful that they had been preserved.

   A few days
afterward Marcellus went up for
provisions. This time he was alone.

He went to the house of a man who was friendly to them and had been
of much assistance.

It was outside of the walls, in the suburb nearest the Appian Way.

After obtaining the requisite supply, he began to inquire after the
news.

   "The news is bad for
you," said the man. "One of the Pretorian
officers was recently converted to
Christianity, and the emperor is enraged. He has
appointed another to the office which he held,
and has sent him after the Christians.

They are catching
some every day.

No man is too poor to be seized in these days."

"Ah!

   Do you know the name of this Pretorian officer who is seeking the
Christians?"

"Lucullus."

      "Lucullus!"
cried Marcellus.

"How strange!"

   "He is said to be a man of great skill and energy."

"I have heard of him.

This is indeed bad news for the Christians."

"The conversion of the other Pretorian officer has greatly enraged
the emperor.

   A price is now set upon his head.
If you chance to see him or to be in his
way, friend, you had better let him know.

They say he is in the Catacombs."

   "He must be there.
There is no other place of safety."

"These are indeed terrible times.

You have need to be cautious."

"They cannot kill me more than once," said Marcellus.

   "Ah! you Christians
have wonderful fortitude. I admire
your bravery; yet still I think you might conform
outwardly to the emperor's decree. Why
should you rush so madly upon death?"
"Our Redeemer died for us. We are ready to
die for him.

And since he died for his people, we also are willing to imitate
him and lay down our lives for our brethren."

"You are wonderful people," said the man,
raising his hands.

Marcellus now bade him farewell, and
departed with his load. The news which
he had just heard filled his mind.

"So Lucullus has taken my place," thought he.

   "I wonder if
he has turned against me?

Does he now think of me as his friend Marcellus, or only as a
Christian?

I may soon find out. It would be strange
indeed if I should fall into his hands; and yet
if I am captured it will probably be by him.

"Yet it is his duty as a soldier, and why should I complain?

If he is appointed to that office he can do nothing else than
obey. As a soldier he can only treat me as an enemy of the state.

He may pity or love me in his heart, yet he must not shrink from
his duty.

"If a price is put on my head they will
redouble their efforts for me.
My time I believe is at hand.

Let me be prepared to meet it."

With such thoughts as these, he walked down the Appian Way.

He was wrapped up in his own meditations, and did not see a crowd
of people that had gathered at a corner of a street until he was
among them.

Then he suddenly found himself stopped.

"Ho, friend!"

   cried a rude voice,
"not so fast. Who are you, and where are
you going?"
"Away," cried Marcellus in a tone of command natural to one who had
ruled over men; and he motioned the man aside.

The crowd were awe-struck by his authoritative tone and imperious
manner, but their spokesman showed more courage.

"Tell us who you are, or you shall not pass."

"Fellow," cried Marcellus, "stand aside!

   Do you not know me?

I am a Pretorian."

      At that
dreaded name the crowd quickly opened,
and Marcellus passed through it.

But scarcely had he moved five paces away than a voice exclaimed:
"Seize him!

   It is the Christian, Marcellus!"

A shout arose from the crowd.

Marcellus needed no further warning.
Dropping his load, he started off down a side street toward the
Tiber.

The whole crowd pursued.

It was a race for life, and death. But
Marcellus had been trained to every athletic
sport, and increased the distance between himself and his pursuers.

At last he reached the Tiber, and leaping in, he swam to the opposite
side.

   The pursuers
reached the river's brink, but followed
no further.

CHAPTER X.

      THE ARREST.

"The trial of your faith worketh patience."

   Honorius was seated in the chapel with one or two others, among
whom was the lady Caecilia.

The feeble rays of a single lamp but faintly illuminated the scene.

      They were silent and
sad. A deeper melancholy than usual rested upon them.

Around them was the sound of footsteps and of voices and a confused
murmur of life.

      Suddenly a
quick step was heard, and Marcellus entered.

The occupants of the chapel sprang up with cries of joy.

   "Where
is Pollio?" cried Caecilia eagerly.

"I have not seen him," said Marcellus.

"Not seen him!

   said Caecilia,
and she fell back upon her seat.

"Why? Is he beyond his time?"
"He ought to have returned six hours ago, and I am sick with anxiety."

"O there is no danger," said Marcellus soothingly.

   "He can take care of
himself."

He tried to pass it off with a careless tone, but his looks belied
his words.

   "No danger!" said
Caecilia. "Alas!

we know too well what new dangers there are.

Never has it been so dangerous as now."

"What has delayed you, Marcellus?

We had begun to give you up."
"I was stopped near the Via Alba," said Marcellus.

"I dropped my load and ran to the river.

   The crowd followed, but I jumped into the river and swam across.

There I took a circuitous route among the streets on the opposite
side, after which I came across again and reached this place in
safety."

"You had a narrow escape. A price is on your
head."
"Have you heard it?"
"Yes, and much more. We have heard of the
redoubled efforts which they are making
to crush us. All through the day tidings of
sorrow have been reaching us.

We must rely more than ever on Him who alone can save us."

"We can baffle them still," said Marcellus
hopefully.

"They watch our principal entrances," said Honorius.

      "Then
we can make new ones. The openings are
numberless."
"They have offered rewards for all the
prominent brethren."
"What then? We will guard those brethren more
carefully than ever."
"Our means of living are gradually lessening."

"But there are as many bold and faithful hearts as ever.

   Who is afraid
to risk his life now?

There will never cease to be a supply of food so long as we live
in the Catacombs.

If we escape pursuit we bring help to our
brethren; if we die we receive the crown
of martyrdom."

"You are right, Marcellus.

   Your faith puts my
fear to shame. How can those who live
in the Catacombs be afraid of death?

It is but a momentary gloom and it will pass.

But this day we have heard much to distress our hearts and fill our
spirits with dismay."

"Alas," continued Honorius in a mournful voice, "how are the people
scattered and the Churches left desolate!

But a few months ago and there were fifty
Christian churches within this city where the light of truth shone,
and the sound of prayer and praise ascended to the Most High.

Now they are overthrown, the people dispersed, and driven out of
the sight of men."

   He paused,
overcome by emotion, and then in a low and plaintive voice he
repeated the mournful words of the eightieth psalm:
"How long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people?

Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; And givest them tears
to drink in great measure.

Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbors;
And our enemies laugh among themselves.

Turn us again, O God of hosts, And cause thy face to shine, And we
shall be saved.

   Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt; Thou hast cast out the
heathen, and planted it.

Thou preparedst room before it, And didst cause it to take deep
root, And it filled the land.

The hills were covered with the shadow of it, And the boughs thereof
were like goodly cedars.

She sent out her boughs to the sea, And her branches unto the river.

   Why hast
thou broken down her hedges, So that all
who pass by the way do pluck her?
The boar out of the wood doth waste it, And the wild beast of the
field doth devour it.

Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts, Look down from heaven, and
behold, and visit this vine.

   And the vineyard which thy right
hand planted, And the branch which thou
madest strong for thyself.
It is burned with fire, it is cut down; They
perish at the rebuke of thy countenance."

"You are sad, Honorius," said Marcellus.

"Our sufferings, it is true, increase upon us; but we can be more
than conquerors through Him who loved us.

   What says he--"
"'To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life
which is in the midst of the Paradise of God.'

"'Be thou faithful unto death and I will give thee a crown of life.

He that overcometh shall not be hurt
of the second death.'

"'To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna,
and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written,
which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.'

      "'He that overcometh and keepeth my words unto the end, to him will
I give power over the nations, and I will give him the morning
star.'

"'He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment;
and I will not blot his name out of the Book of Life, but I will
confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.'

"'Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the
temple of my God, and he shall go no more out,
and I will write upon him the name of my God,
and the name of the city of my God, which
is New Jerusalem, which cometh down out
of heaven from my God, and I will write
upon him my new name.'

"' To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me on my throne,
even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his
throne.'"

   As Marcellus
spoke these words his form grew erect, his eye brightened, and his
face flushed with enthusiasm.

His emotions were transmitted to his companions, and as one by one
these glorious promises fell upon their ears they forgot for a while
their sorrows in the thought of their approaching blessedness.

The New Jerusalem, the golden streets, the
palms of glory, the song of the Lamb, the
face of Him who sitteth upon the
throne; all these were present to their
minds.

"Marcellus," said Honorius, "you have driven away my gloom by your
words; let us, rise superior to earthly troubles.

Come, brethren, lay aside your cares.

The youngest born into the kingdom puts our faith to shame.

   Let us look to the joy set
before us. 'For we know that if this earthly tabernacle
be destroyed we have a house not made
with hands, eternal in the heavens.'"

"Death comes nearer," he continued, "our enemies encircle us, and
the circle grows narrower.

Let us die like Christians--" 
"Why these gloomy forebodings?"

said Marcellus.

   "Is death nearer to us than it was
before? Are we not safe in the Catacombs?"

"Have you not heard, then?"
"What?"

"Of the death of Chrysippus!"

   
"Chrysippus! dead! No--how? when?"
"The soldiers of the emperor were led
down into the Catacombs by some one who
knew the way. They advanced upon the room
where service was going on. This was
in the Catacombs beyond the Tiber. The
brethren gave a hasty alarm and fled.

But the venerable Chrysippus, either through extreme old age or
else through desire for martyrdom, refused to fly.

He threw himself upon his knees and raised his voice
in prayer. Two faithful attendants remained
with him. The soldiers rushed in, and even
while Chrysippus was upon his knees they
dashed out his brains. He fell dead at the
first blow, and his two attendants were slain
by his side."
"They have gone to join the noble army of
martyrs. They have been faithful unto death, and
will receive the crown of life," said Marcellus.

But now they were interrupted by a tumult without.

   Instantly every one started upright.

"The soldiers!"

      exclaimed all.

But, no; it was not the soldiers. It was a
Christian; a messenger from the world above.
Pale and trembling, he flung himself
upon the floor, and wringing his hands, cried out as he panted for
breath, 
"Alas!

alas!"

   Upon the lady
Caecilia the sight of this man produced a terrible effect.

She staggered back against the wall trembling from head to foot,
her hands clenched each other, her eyes stared wildly, her lips
moved as though she wished to speak, but no sound escaped.

"Speak--speak! Tell us all," cried
Honorius.

   "Pollio!" gasped
the messenger.

"What of him?"

      said Marcellus sternly.

"He is arrested--he is in prison!"

At that intelligence a shriek burst forth which sounded fearfully
amid the surrounding horrors.

It came from the Lady Caecilia.

   The next moment she fell heavily, to the
floor.

   The bystanders
hurried to attend her.

They carried her away to her own quarters.

   There they applied the
customary restoratives and she
revived.
But the blow had struck heavily, and though sense and feeling
returned, yet she seemed like one in a dream.

Meanwhile the messenger had recovered strength and told all that
he knew.

   "Pollio was with you, was
he?" asked Marcellus.

"No, he was alone."

   "On what errand?"
"Finding out the news. I was on one side of
the street a little behind.
He was coming home.

We walked on until we came to a crowd of men.

   To my surprise, Pollio was
stopped and questioned.

I did not hear what passed, but I saw their threatening gestures,
and at length saw them seize him.

I could do nothing. I kept at a safe distance
and watched. In about half an hour a
troop of Pretorians came along. Pollio
was handed over to them, and they carried him
away."
"Pretorians?" said Marcellus. "Do you know the
captain?"
"Yes; it was Lucullus."

"It is well," said Marcellus, and he fell into a deep fit of
musing.

   CHAPTER XI.

THE OFFER.

"Greater love hath no man than this, that
a man lay down his life for his friends."

It was evening in the Pretorian camp.
Lucullus was in his room seated by a
lamp which threw a bright light around.

He was roused by a knock at the door.

   At once
rising, he opened it. A man entered and
advanced silently to the middle of the
room.

He then disencumbered
himself of the folds of a large mantle in which he was dressed and
faced Lucullus.

"Marcellus!" cried the other in amazement, and
springing forward he embraced his visitor with every mark of joy.

"Dear friend," said he, "to what happy chance do I owe this meeting?

   I was just
thinking of you and wondering when we
should meet again."
"Our meetings, I fear," said Marcellus sadly "will not be very
frequent now.

I make this one at the risk of my life."

   "True," said Lucullus,
participating in the sadness of the other. "You
are pursued, and there is a price on your head. Yet here
you are as safe as you ever were in those happy days before this
madness seized you.

O, Marcellus why can they not return again?"

   "I cannot change my nature nor undo what is done.

Moreover, Lucullus, although my lot may appear to you a hard one,
I never was so happy."

      "Happy!"

cried the other in deep surprise.

      "Yes, Lucullus, though afflicted I am not cast down; though persecuted
I am not in despair."

"The persecution of the emperor is no slight matter."

      "I know it well. I see
my brethren fall before it every day.

Every day the circle that surrounds me is lessened.

   Friends leave me and never appear again.

Companions go up to the city, but when they return they are carried
back dead to be deposited in their graves."

   "And yet you say you can be happy?"

"Yes, Lucullus, I have a peace that the world knows nothing of; a
peace that cometh from above, that passeth all understanding."

"I know, Marcellus, that you are too brave to fear death; but I
never knew that you had sufficient fortitude to endure calmly all
that I know you must now suffer.

Your courage is superhuman, or rather it is the courage of madness."

   "It comes from above, Lucullus.

Once I was incapable of feeling it, but now old things have passed
away and all has become new.

      Sustained by this new power, I can endure the utmost evils that can
be dealt upon me.

I expect nothing but suffering in life, and know that I shall die
in agony; yet the thought can not overcome the strong faith that
is within me."

"It pains me," said Lucullus sadly, "to
see you so determined.

If I saw the slightest sign of wavering in you I would hope that
time might change or modify your feelings.

      But you seem to me to be fixed unalterably in your new course."

"God grant that I may remain steadfast unto the end!"

said Marcellus fervently. "But it is not
of my feelings that I came to speak. I
come, Lucullus, to ask your assistance,
to claim your sympathy and help. You promised
me once to show me your friendship if I needed it.
I come now to claim it."

"All that is in my power is yours already, Marcellus.

Tell what you want."

"You have a prisoner."

   "Yes, many."
"This is a boy."
"I believe my men captured a boy a short time
since."

"This boy is too insignificant to merit capture.

   He is beneath
the wrath of the emperor. He is yet in your power.

I come, Lucullus, to implore his delivery."

"Alas, Marcellus, what is it that you ask?
Have you forgotten the discipline of the
Roman army, or the military oath? Do you not
know that if I did this I would violate that
oath and make myself a traitor?

If you asked me to fall upon my sword I would do it more readily
than this."

   "I have not forgotten the military oath or the discipline of the
camp, Lucullus.

I thought that this lad, being scarcely more than a child, might
not be considered a prisoner.

      Do the commands of the emperor extend to children?"

"He makes no distinction of age.

Have you not seen children as young as this lad suffer death in the
Coliseum?"

"Alas I have," said Marcellus, as his thoughts reverted to those
young girls whose death-song once struck so painfully and so sweetly
upon his heart.

"This young boy, then, must also suffer?"
"Yes," said Lucullus, "unless he abjures
Christianity."
"And that he will never do."
"Then he will rush upon his fate.
The law does this, not I, Marcellus.
I am but the instrument. Do not blame
me."

"I do not blame you.

      I know well
how strongly you are bound to obedience. If
you hold your office you must perform its
duties. Yet let me make another proposal.
Surrender of prisoners is not allowed, but an exchange is lawful."

"Yes."

"If I could tell you of a prisoner far more important than this
boy, you would exchange, would you not?"

"But you have taken none of us prisoners?"

      "No, but we have
power over our own people. And there are
some among us on whose heads the emperor
has placed a large reward. For the
capture of these a hundred lads like this
boy would be gladly given."
"Is it then a custom among Christians
to betray one another?" asked Lucullus in
surprise.

"No, but sometimes one Christian will offer his own life to save
that of another."

"Impossible!"

   "It is so in this instance."
"Who is it that is offered for this boy?"

"I Marcellus!"
At this astounding declaration Lucullus
started back.

"You!" he cried.

   "Yes, I myself."
"You are jesting. It is impossible."

"I am serious.

   It is for this that I
have already exposed my life in coming to you.

I have shown the interest that I take in him by this great risk.

I will explain.

"This boy Pollio is the last of an ancient and noble Roman family.

He is the only son of his mother.

   His father died in
battle. He belongs to the Servilii."

"The Servilii!

Is his mother the Lady Caecilia?"

"Yes.

She is a refugee in the Catacombs. Her whole life and love is wrapped
up in this boy.

Every day she lets him go up into the city, a dangerous adventure,
and in his absence she suffers indescribable agony.

Yet she is afraid to keep him there always for fear that the damp
air which is so fatal to children may cut him off.

So she exposes him to what she thinks is a smaller danger.

"This boy you have a prisoner.

That mother has heard of it, and now lies hovering between life and
death.

If you destroy him she too will die, and one of the noblest and
purest spirits in Rome will be no more.

   "For these reasons I
come to offer myself in exchange.

What am I?

   I am alone in the world.

No life is wrapped up in mine.

      No one depends on me for
the present and the future.

I fear not death.

   It may as well come now as at any other time.

It must come sooner or later, and I would rather give my life as a
ransom for a friend than lay it down uselessly.

      "For
these reasons, Lucullus, I implore you, by the sacred ties of
friendship, by your pity, by your promise to me, give me your
assistance now and take my life in exchange for him."

Lucullus rose to his feet and paced the room in great agitation.

   "Why, O Marcellus," he cried at last, "do you try me so terribly?"

"My proposal is easy to receive."

"You forget that your life is precious to me."

"But think of this young lad."

   "I pity him deeply. But
do you think I can receive your
life as a forfeit?"

"It is forfeited already, and will be surrendered sooner or later.

      I pray you let it be
yielded up while it may be of service."

"You shall not die as long as I can prevent it.

   Your life is not yet forfeited.
By the immortal gods, it will be long before you take your place
in the arena."

"No one can save me when once I am taken.

      You might try your utmost.

What could you do to save one on whom the emperor's wrath is falling?"

"I might do much to avert it. You do not
know what might be done.

But even if I could do nothing, still I would not listen to this
proposal now."

      "If I went
to the emperor himself he would grant my prayer."

"He would take you prisoner at once and put both of you to death."

"I could send a messenger with my proposal."

"The message would never reach him; or at least not until it would
be too late."

   "There is then no hope?" said
Marcellus mournfully.

"None."

"And you absolutely refuse to grant my request?"

   "Alas, Marcellus, how
can I be guilty of the death of my friend?
You have no mercy on me. Forgive me if I
refuse so unreasonable a proposal."
"The will of the Lord be done," said Marcellus.

From Egypt maybe nothing
Will come this long time.  Why--God only knows.
We hear of no stir.  To reduce, to spare,
I am quite willing for myself to stoop to,
Were it myself, and only I, should suffer -
But what can that avail?  A cloak, a horse,
A sword I ne'er can want;--as to my God,
He is not to be bought; He asks but little,
Only my heart.  I had relied, Al-Hafi,
Upon a surplus in my chest.

HAFI.

      A surplus?
And tell me, would you not have had me impaled,
Or hanged at least, if you had found me out
In hoarding up a surplus?  Deficits -
Those one may venture on.

SALADIN.

      Well, but how next?
Could you have found out no one where to borrow
Unless of Sittah?

SITTAH.

   And would I have borne
To see the preference given to another?
I still lay claim to it.  I am not as yet
Entirely bare.

SALADIN.

   Not yet entirely--This
Was wanting still.  Go, turn thyself about;
Take where, and as, thou canst; be quick, Al-Hafi.
Borrow on promise, contract, anyhow;
But heed me--not of those I have enriched -
To borrow there might seem to ask it back.
Go to the covetous.  They'll gladliest lend -
They know how well their money thrives with me -

HAFI.

I know none such.

SITTAH.

   I recollect just now
I heard, Al-Hafi, of thy friend's return.

HAFI (startled).

Friend--friend of mine--and who should that be?

SITTAH.

      Who?
Thy vaunted Jew!

HAFI.

   A Jew, and praised by me?

SITTAH.

To whom his God (I think I still retain
Thy own expression used concerning him)
To whom, of all the good things of this world,
His God in full abundance has bestowed
The greatest and the least.

HAFI.

   What could I mean
When I said so?

SITTAH.

   The least of good things, riches;
The greatest, wisdom.

HAFI.

   How--and of a Jew
Could I say that?

Italics uses _underlines_ and small caps uses ~tildes~.

   Font sizes are not preserved.

AMERICAN POETRY
1922
A MISCELLANY

[Illustration] 

NEW YORK 
HARCOURT, BRACE AND COMPANY
COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY HARCOURT, BRACE AND COMPANY, INC.

   PRINTED IN THE U. S.
A. BY THE QUINN & BODEN COMPANY RAHWAY, N.
J.

   A FOREWORD

When the first Miscellany of American Poetry appeared in 1920,
innumerable were the questions asked by both readers and reviewers
of publishers and contributors alike.

The modest note on the jacket appeared to satisfy no one.

The volume purported to have no editor, yet a collection without
an editor was pronounced preposterous.

It was obviously not the organ of a school, yet
it did not seem to have been compiled
to exploit any particular phase of American life; neither Nature,
Love, Patriotism, Propaganda, nor Philosophy could be acclaimed as
its reason for being, and it was certainly not intended, as has
been so frequent of late, to bring a cheerful absence of mind to
the world-weary during an unoccupied ten minutes.

Again, it was exclusive not inclusive, since its object was,
evidently, not the meritorious if impossible one of attempting to
be a compendium of present-day American verse.

   But the publisher's
note had stated one thing quite clearly, that the Miscellany was
to be a biennial.

Two years have passed, and with the second volume it has seemed
best to state at once the reasons which actuated its contributors
to join in such a venture.

In the first place, the plan of the _Miscellany_
is frankly imitative.
For some years now there has been published in
England an anthology entitled Georgian Poetry.
The Miscellany is intended to be an
American companion to that publication.
The dissimilarities of temperament, range
and choice of subjects are manifest, but the
outstanding difference is this: _Georgian
Poetry_ has an editor, and the poems it contains may be taken as
that editor's reaction to the poetry of the day.

The _Miscellany_, on the other hand, has no editor; it is no one
person's choice which forms it; it is not an attempt to throw into
relief any particular group or stress any particular tendency.

It does disclose the most recent work of certain representative
figures in contemporary American literature.

The poets who appear here have come together by mutual accord and,
although they may invite others to join them in subsequent volumes
as circumstance dictates, each one stands (as all newcomers also
must stand) as the exponent of fresh and strikingly diverse qualities
in our native poetry.

      It is as if a dozen
unacademic painters, separated by temperament and distance, were
to arrange to have an exhibition every two years of their latest
work.

They would not pretend that they were the only painters worthy of
a public showing; they would maintain that their work was, generally
speaking, most interesting to one another.

   Their gallery would
necessarily be limited; but it would be
flexible enough to admit, with every fresh exhibit, three or four
new members who had achieved an importance and an idiom of their own.

This is just what the original contributors to the _Miscellany_
have done.

   The newcomers--H. D., Alfred
Kreymborg, and Edna St. Vincent
Millay--have taken their places with the same
absence of judge or jury that marks any "society
of independents." There is no hanging committee;
no organizer of "position." Two years ago
the alphabet determined the arrangement;
this time seniority has been the sole
arbiter of precedence. Furthermore--and this
can not be too often repeated--there has
been no editor. To be painstakingly precise,
each contributor has been his own editor.
As such, he has chosen his own
selections and determined the order in which they are to be printed,
but he has had no authority over either the choice or grouping of
his fellow exhibitors' contributions.

To one of the members has been delegated the merely mechanical
labors of assembling, proof-reading, and seeing the volume through
the press.

      

NATHAN, attired, comes out with RECHA.


RECHA.

You have been so very slow, my dearest father,
You now will hardly be in time to find him.

NATHAN.

Well, if not here beneath the palms; yet, surely,
Elsewhere.  My child, be satisfied.  See, see,
Is not that Daya making towards us?

RECHA.

She certainly has lost him then.

NATHAN.

   Why so?

RECHA.

Else she'd walk quicker.

NATHAN.

   She may not have seen us.

RECHA.

There, now she sees us.

NATHAN.

   And her speed redoubles,
Be calm, my Recha.

RECHA.

   Would you have your daughter
Be cool and unconcerned who 'twas that saved her,
Heed not to whom is due the life she prizes
Chiefly because she owed it first to thee?

NATHAN.

I would not wish thee other than thou art,
E'en if I knew that in thy secret soul
A very different emotion throbs.

RECHA.

Why--what my father?

NATHAN.

   Dost thou ask of me,
So tremblingly of me, what passes in thee?
Whatever 'tis, 'tis innocence and nature.
Be not alarmed, it gives me no alarm;
But promise me that, when thy heart shall speak
A plainer language, thou wilt not conceal
A single of thy wishes from my fondness.

RECHA.

Oh the mere possibility of wishing
Rather to veil and hide them makes me shudder.

NATHAN.

Let this be spoken once for all.  Well, Daya -

NATHAN, RECHA, and DAYA.

DAYA.

He still is here beneath the palms, and soon
Will reach yon wall.  See, there he comes.

RECHA.

      And seems
Irresolute where next; if left or right.

DAYA.

I know he mostly passes to the convent,
And therefore comes this path.  What will you lay me?

RECHA.

Oh yes he does.  And did you speak to him?
How did he seem to-day?

DAYA.

   As heretofore.

NATHAN.

Don't let him see you with me:  further back;
Or rather to the house.

RECHA.

   Just one peep more.
Now the hedge steals him from me.

DAYA.

   Come away.
Your father's in the right--should he perceive us,
'Tis very probable he'll tack about.

RECHA.

But for the hedge -

NATHAN.

   Now he emerges from it.
He can't but see you:  hence--I ask it of you.

DAYA.

I know a window whence we yet may -

RECHA.

      Ay.

[Goes in with Daya.

NATHAN.

I'm almost shy of this strange fellow, almost
Shrink back from his rough virtue.  That one man
Should ever make another man feel awkward!
And yet--He's coming--ha!--by God, the youth
Looks like a man.  I love his daring eye,
His open gait.  May be the shell is bitter;
But not the kernel surely.  I have seen
Some such, methinks.  Forgive me, noble Frank.

NATHAN and TEMPLAR.

TEMPLAR.

What?

NATHAN.

   Give me leave.

TEMPLAR.

      Well, Jew, what wouldst thou have?

NATHAN.

The liberty of speaking to you!

TEMPLAR.

   So -
Can I prevent it?  Quick then, what's your business?

NATHAN.

Patience--nor hasten quite so proudly by
A man, who has not merited contempt,
And whom, for evermore, you've made your debtor.

TEMPLAR.

How so?  Perhaps I guess--No--Are you then -

NATHAN.

My name is Nathan, father to the maid
Your generous courage snatched from circling flames,
And hasten -

TEMPLAR.

   If with thanks, keep, keep them all.
Those little things I've had to suffer much from:
Too much already, far.  And, after all,
You owe me nothing.  Was I ever told
She was your daughter?  'Tis a templar's duty
To rush to the assistance of the first
Poor wight that needs him; and my life just then
Was quite a burden.  I was mighty glad
To risk it for another; tho' it were
That of a Jewess.

NATHAN.

   Noble, and yet shocking!
The turn might be expected.  Modest greatness
Wears willingly the mask of what is shocking
To scare off admiration:  but, altho'
She may disdain the tribute, admiration,
Is there no other tribute she can bear with?
Knight, were you here not foreign, not a captive
I would not ask so freely.  Speak, command,
In what can I be useful?

TEMPLAR.

   You--in nothing.

NATHAN.

I'm rich.

TEMPLAR.

   To me the richer Jew ne'er seemed
The bettor Jew.

NATHAN.

   Is that a reason why
You should not use the better part of him,
His wealth?

TEMPLAR.

   Well, well, I'll not refuse it wholly,
For my poor mantle's sake--when that is threadbare,
And spite of darning will not hold together,
I'll come and borrow cloth, or money of thee,
To make me up a new one.  Certainly it is
enough for us, but whether the thing is
true, whether really the same phenomena or only
similar ones have been noted, is another
question rarely asked. If the man or the
bell is the same that we now perceive anew, the inference is
involuntarily drawn that they must have persisted, but we eliminate
altogether the lapse of time and suppose unconsciously that the
entity in question must have been on the spot through the whole
period.

One needs only to observe how quickly witnesses tend to identify
objects presented for identification: e. g.
knives, letters, purses, etc.

To receive for identification and to
say yes, is often the work of an
instant. The witness argues, quite unconsciously, in
this fashion: ``I have given the judge only one clew (perhaps
different from the one in question), now here again is a clew,
hence, it must be the one I gave him.''

That the matter may have changed, that there has been some confusion,
that perhaps 

[1] Die Wahrnehmung und Empfinding.

   Leipzig 1888.

<p 473>
other witnesses have given similar things, is not at all considered.

      Here
again we have to beware of confusing of identities with agreements.

Finally, we must consider fatigue and other conditions of excitation.

   Everybody knows how things read
late at night seem absolute nonsense, and become simple and obvious
the next morning.

In the same way, we may take a thing to be thus and so while tired
in the evening, and in the morning see our notion to be a coarse
misunderstanding.

Hoppe tells of a hospital interne who became so excited and tired
through frequent calls that he heard the tick- tack of his watch
as ``Oh-doc-tor.''

A witness who has been subjected to a prolonged and fatiguing
examination falls into a similar condition and knows at the end
much less than at the beginning.

Finally, he altogether misunderstands the questions put to him.

The situation becomes still worse when the defendant has been so
subjected to examination, and becomes involved, because of fatigue,
etc., in the famous ``contradictions.''

   If ``convincing contradictions'' occur at the
end of a long examination of a witness
or a defendant, it is well to find out how long the examination
took.

If it took much time the contradictions mean little.

   The same phenomena
of fatigue may even lead to suspicion of
negligence. Doctors, trained nurses, nursery
maids, young mothers, etc., who became guilty of ``negligence''
of invalids and children have, in many instances, merely ``misunderstood''
because of great fatigue.

It is for this reason that the numerous sad cases occur in which
machine-tenders, switch-tenders, etc., are punished for negligence.

If a man of this class, year after year, serves
twenty-three hours, then rests seven hours,
then serves twenty-three hours again,
etc., he is inevitably overtaken by fatigue
and nervous relaxation in which signals, warnings,
calls, etc., are simply misunderstood.
Statistics tend to show that the largest number of accidents occur
at the end of a period of service, i. e., at the time of greatest
fatigue.

But even if this were not the case some reference must be made to
chronic fatigue.

   If a man
gets only seven hours' rest after intense labor, part of the
fatigue-elements must have remained.

They accumulate in time, finally they summate, and exercise their
influence even at the beginning of the service.

      Socialists complain
justly about this matter. The most
responsible positions are occupied by
chronically fatigued individuals, and when
nature extorts her rights we punish the helpless men.

The case is the same with people who have much to do with <p
474>
money--tax, post, bank, and treasury officials, who are obliged to
attend rigorously to monotonous work--the reception and distribution
of money, easily grow tired.

   Men of experience in this profession have assured me that they
often, when fatigued, take money, count it, sign a receipt and
then--return the money to the person who brought it.

Fortunately they recognize their mistake in the astonishment of the
receiver.

If, however, they do not recognize it, or the receiver is sly enough
calmly to walk off with the money, if the sum is great and restitution
not easily possible, and if, moreover, the official happens to be
in the bad graces of his superiors, he does not have much chance
in the prosecution for embezzlement, which is more likely than not
to be begun against him.[1] Any affection, any stimulus, any fatigue
may tend to make people passive, and hence, less able to defend
themselves.

A well known Berlin psychiatrist tells the following story: ``When
I was still an apprentice in an asylum, I always carried the keys
of the cells with me.

One day I went to the opera, and had a seat in the parquette.

Between the acts I went into the corridor.

      On returning I made a
mistake, and saw before me a door which had
the same kind of lock as the
cell-doors in the asylum, stuck my hand into my
pocket, took out my key--which fitted, and
found myself suddenly in a loge. Now would
it not be possible in this way, purely by
reflex action, to turn into a burglar?''
Of course we should hardly believe a known burglar if he were to
tell us such a story.

(e) _The Lie_.

Section 108. (I) I. General Considerations.

In a certain sense a large part of the criminalist's
work is nothing more than a battle against
lies. He has to discover the truth and must fight
the opposite. He meets this opposite at every
step.
The accused, often one who has confessed
completely, many of the witnesses, try to get
advantage of him, and frequently he has
to struggle with himself when he perceives
that he is working in a direction which
he can not completely justify. Utterly to vanquish
the lie, particularly in our work, is
of course, impossible, and to describe its nature
exhaustively is to write a natural history of mankind.

We must limit ourselves to the consideration of a definite number
of means, great and small, which will make our work easier, 

[1] Cf.

   Lohsing in H. Gross's Archiv
VII, 331.

<p 475>
will warn us of the presence of deception,
and will prevent its playing a part. I have attempted
to compile forms of it according to intent,
and will here add a few words.[1]
That by the lie is meant the intentional deliverance of a conscious
untruth for the purpose of deception is as familiar as the variety
of opinion concerning the permissibility of so-called necessary
lies, of the pious, of the pedagogic, and the conventional.

We have to assume here the standpoint of absolute rigorism, and to
say with Kant,[2] ``The lie in its mere form is man's crime against
his own nature, and is a vice which must make a man disreputable
in his own eyes.''

      We can not actually
think of a single case in which we find any
ground for lying.

For we lawyers need have no pedagogical duties, nor are we compelled
to teach people manners, and a situation in which we may save
ourselves by lying is unthinkable.

Of course, we will not speak all we know;
indeed, a proper silence is a sign of a good criminalist, but we
need never lie.

The beginner must especially learn that the ``good intention'' to
serve the case and the so-called excusing ``eagerness to do one's
duty,'' by which little lies are sometimes justified, have absolutely
no worth.

   An incidental word
as if the accomplice had confessed; an
expression intending to convey that you know more than you do; a
perversion of some earlier statement of the witness, and similar
``permissible tricks,'' can not be cheaper than the cheapest things.

Their use results only in one's own shame, and if they fail, the
defense has the advantage.

   The lost ground can never
be regained.[3]
Nor is it permissible to lie by gestures and actions any more than
by words.

These, indeed, are dangerous, because a movement of the hand, a
reaching for the bell, a sudden rising, may be very effective under
circumstances.

They easily indicate that the judge
knows more about the matter than he really does, or suggest that
his information is greater, etc.

They make the witness or defendant think that the judge is already
certain about the nature of the case; that he has resolved upon
important measures, and other such things.

Now movements of this kind are not recorded, and in case the denial
of blame is not serious, a young criminalist allows himself easily
to be misled by his desire for efficiency.

Even accident may help.

      When I was examining
justice I had to hear the testimony of a rather weak-minded lad,
who was suspected of having stolen and hidden a large sum of money.

The lad firmly and cleverly denied
[1] Cf. my Manual, ``When the witness is unwilling to tell the truth

.''

   [2] Kant : ``<U:>ber ein vermeintliches Recht, aus Menschenliebe
zu l<u:>gen

.''

      [3] A sentence is here omitted.

[Translator.]

<p 476>

his guilt.

During the examination a comrade entered who had something official
to tell me, and inasmuch as I was in the midst of dictation he
wanted to wait until the end of the sentence.

Happening to see two swords that had just been brought from a student
duel, he took one in his hand and examined the hilt, the point and
the blade.

   The defendant hardly saw this action before he got frightened,
raised his hands, ran to the sword-examiner, crying ``I confess, I
confess!

I took the money and hid it in the hollow hickory tree.''

      This event was rather
funny. Another, however, led, I will not
say to self-reproach, but to considerable disquiet on my part.

A man was suspected of having killed his two small children.

   As the bodies were
not found I undertook a careful search
of his home, of the oven, of the cellar, the
drains, etc.

In the latter we found a great deal of animal entrails, apparently
rabbits.

As at the time of this discovery I had
no notion of where they belonged, I took
them, and in the meantime had them preserved in alcohol.

The great glass receptacle which contained them stood on my writing
table when I had the accused brought in to answer certain questions
about one or two suspicious matters we had discovered.

He looked anxiously at the glass, and said suddenly, ``Since you
have got it all, I must confess.''

Almost reflexly I asked, ``Where are the corpses?''

   and he immediately answered
that he had hidden them in the environs of
the city, where they were found.

Clearly, the glass containing the intestines had led him to the
notion that the bodies were found and in part preserved here, and
when I asked him where they were he did not observe how illogical
the question would be if the bodies had really been found.

      The whole thing was a matter of accident, but I still have the
feeling that the confession was not properly obtained; that I should
have thought of the effect of the glass and should have provided
against it before the accused was brought before me.

In the daily life such an open procedure is, of course, impossible,
and if the circumstances were to be taken for what they seem we
should frequently make mistakes.

Everybody knows, e. g., how very few happy marriages there are.

But how do we know it?

Only because the fortune of close observation always indicates that
the relation is in no way so happy as one would like it to be.

And externally?
Has anybody ever seen in even half-educated
circles a street quarrel between husband and
wife? How well-mannered they are in
society, and how little they show their
disinclination for <p 477>

each other.

And all this is a lie in word and deed, and when we have to deal
with it in a criminal case we judge according to the purely external
things that we and others have observed.

Social reasons, deference for public opinion which must often be
deceived, the feeling of duty toward children, not infrequently
compel deception of the world.

The number of fortunate marriages is
mainly overestimated.[1]
We see the same thing with regard to
property, the attitude of parents and
children, the relation between superiors
and inferiors, even in the condition of health,--conduct in all
these cases does not reveal the true state of affairs.

One after another, people are fooled, until finally the world
believes what it is told and the court hears the belief sworn to
as absolute truth.

It is, perhaps, not too much to say that
we are far more deceived by appearances than by
words. Public opinion should least of all
impose on us. And yet it is through public
opinion that we learn the external relations
of the people who come before us. It is
called vox populi and is really rot.
The phrases, ``they say,'' ``everybody
knows,'' ``nobody doubts,'' ``as most
neighbors agree,'' and however else these seeds of dishonesty and
slander may be designated--all these phrases must disappear from
our papers and procedure.

They indicate only appearances--only what people _*wanted_ to have
seen.

They do not reveal the real and the hidden.
Law too frequently makes normative use of
the maxim that the bad world says it and the
good one believes it. It even constructs its judgments thereby.

Not infrequently the uttered lies must be supported by actions.

It is well-known that we seem merry, angry, or friendly only when
we excite these feelings by certain gestures, imitations and physical
attitudes.

Anger is not easily simulated with an unclenched fist, immovable
feet, and uncontracted brow.

   These gestures are required for the appearance of real anger.

And how very real it becomes, and how very real all other emotions
become because of the appropriate gestures and actions, is familiar.

We learn, hence, that the earnest assertor of his innocence finally
begins to believe in it a little, or altogether.

And lying witnesses still more frequently begin to hold their
assertions to be true.

   As these people do not show the common marks of the lie their
treatment is extraordinarily difficult.

It is, perhaps, right to accuse our age of especial inclination for
that far-reaching lie which makes its perpetrator believe in his
own 

[1] A.

      Moll: Die kontr<a:>re
Sexualempfindung.

Berlin 1893.

<p 478>

creation.

Kiefer[1] cites examples of such ``self-deceiving liars.''

What drives one to despair is the fact that these people are such
clever liars that they make a game of the business.

It is a piece of luck that these lies, like every lie, betray
themselves by the characteristic intensity with which they seek to
assume the appearance of truth.

This important mark of the lie can not be too clearly indicated.

The number and vigor of lies must show that
we more frequently fail to think of their
possibility than if they did not exist at all.

A long time ago I read an apparently simple story which has helped
me frequently in my criminalistic work.

Karl was dining with his parents and two cousins, and after dinner
said at school, ``There were fourteen of us at table to-day.''

``How is it possible?''

``Karl has lied again.'' How frequently does an
event seem inexplicable, mysterious,
puzzling. But if you think that here perhaps,
``Karl has lied again,'' you may be led to more accurate observation
and hence, to the discovery of some hiatus by means of which the
whole affair may be cleared up.

But frequently contradictions are still more simply explained by
the fact that they are not contradictions, and by the fact that we
see them as such through inadequate comprehension of what has been
said, and ignorance of the conditions.

We often pay too much attention to lies and contradictions.

There is the prejudice that the accused is really the criminal, and
that moves us to give unjustified reasons for little accidental
facts, which lead afterwards to apparent contradictions.

This habit is very old.

If we inquire when the lie has least influence
on mankind we find it to be under emotional
stress, especially during anger, joy,
fear, and on the death-bed.[2] We all know
of various cases in which a man, angry at
the betrayal of an accomplice, happy
over approaching release, or terrified by the
likelihood of arrest, etc., suddenly declares,
``Now I am going to tell the truth.'' And this
is a typical form which introduces the
subsequent confession. As a rule the
resolution to tell the truth does not last long.
If the emotion passes, the confession is regretted,
and much thought is given to the withdrawal of a part of the
confession.

If the protocols concerning the matter are very long this regret
is easily observable toward the end.

That it is not easy to lie during
intoxication is well known.[3] What

[1] E. Kiefer: Die L<u:>ge u. der Irrtum vor Gericht.

Beiblatt der ``Magdeburgischen Zeitung,'' Nos. 17, 18, 19. 1895
[2] Cf.

``Manual,'' ``Die Aussage Sterbender.''
[3] Cf.

N<a:>cke: Zeugenaussage in Akohol.

   Gross's Archiv.

XIII, 177 and H.

Gross, I 337.

<p 479>
is said on the death-bed may always, especially
if the confessor is positively religious, be taken
to be true.

It is known that under such circumstances the consciousness of even
mentally disturbed people and idiots becomes remarkably clear, and
very often astonishing illuminations result.

      If the mind
of the dying be already clouded it is never
difficult to determine the fact, inasmuch
as particularly such confessions are distinguished by the great
simplicity and clearness of the very few words used.

Section 109.(2) _The Pathoformic lie_.

As in many other forms of human expression, there is a stage in the
telling of lies where the normal condition has passed and the
diseased one has not yet begun.

The extreme limit on the one side is the harmless story-teller, the
hunter, the tourist, the student, the lieutenant,--all of whom boast
a little; on the other side there is the completely insane paralytic
who tells about his millions and his monstrous achievements.

The characteristic pseudologia phantastica, the lie of advanced
hysteria, in which people write anonymous letters and send messages
to themselves, to their servants, to high officials and to clergy,
in order to cast suspicion on them, are all diseased.

The characteristic lie of the epileptics, and perhaps also, the
lies of people who are close to the idiocy of old age, mixes up
what has been experienced, read and told, and represents it as the
experience of the speaker.[1]
Still there is a class of people who can not be shown to be in any
sense diseased, and who still lie in such a fashion that they can
not be well.

The development of such lies may probably be best assigned to
progressive habituation.

People who commit these falsehoods may be people of talent, and,
as Goethe says of himself, may have ``desire to fabulate.''

Most of them are people, I will not say who are desirous of honor,
but who are still so endowed that they would be glad to play some
grand part and are eager to push their own personality into the
foreground.

   If they do not succeed in the daily life, they try to convince
themselves and others by progressively broader stories that they
really hold a prominent position.

I had and still have opportunity to study accurately several
well-developed types of these people.

They not only have in common the fact that they lie, they also have
common themes.

They tell how important
[1] Delbr<u:>ck: De pathologische L<u:>ge, etc.

      Stuttgart 1891.

``Manual,'' ``Das pathoforme L<u:>gen.

<p 480>

personages asked their advice, sought their company and honored them.

      They suggest their great influence, are eager to grant their patronage
and protection, suggest their great intimacy with persons of high
position, exaggerate when they speak of their property, their
achievements, and their work, and broadly deny all events in which
they are set at a disadvantage.

The thing by which they are to be distinguished from ordinary
``story-tellers,'' and which defines what is essentially pathoformic
in them, is the fact that they lie without considering that the
untrue is discovered immediately, or very soon.

Thus they will tell somebody that he has to thank their patronage
for this or that, although the person in question knows the case
to be absolutely different.

Or again, they tell somebody of an achievement of theirs and the
man happens to have been closely concerned with that particular
work and is able to estimate properly their relation to it.

   Again they promise things which the auditor knows they can not
perform, and they boast of their wealth although at least one auditor
knows its amount accurately.

If their stories are objected to they have some extraordinarily
unskilful explanation, which again indicates the pathoformic character
of their minds.

      Their lies most
resemble those of pregnant women, or women
lying-in, also that particular form of lie which
prostitutes seem typically addicted to, and which are cited by
Carlier, Lombroso, Ferrero, as representative of them, and as a
professional mark of identification.

I also suspect that the essentially pathoformic lie has some relation
to sex, perhaps to perversity or impotence, or exaggerated sexual
impulse.

   And I believe that it occurs more frequently than is supposed,
although it is easily known in even its slightly developed stages.

I once believed that the pathoformic lie was not of great importance
in our work, because on the one hand, it is most complete and
distinct when it deals with the person of the speaker, and on the
other it is so characteristic that it must be recognized without
fail by anybody who has had the slightest experience with it.

But since, I have noticed that the
pathoformic lie plays an enormous
part in the work of the criminalist and
deserves full consideration.

TOPIC IV. ISOLATED SPECIAL CONDITIONS.

Section 110.

      (a) Sleep and Dream.

If a phenomenon occurs frequently, its frequency must have a certain
relation to its importance to the criminalist.

Hence, sleep <p 481>
and dream must in any event be of great influence upon our task.

   As we rarely hear them mentioned, we have underestimated their
significance.

The literature dealing with them is comparatively rich.[1]
The physician is to be called in not only when we are dealing with
conditions of sleep and dream which are in the least diseased, i.
e., abnormally intense sleepiness, sleep-walking, hallucinatory
dreams, etc., but also when the physiological side of sleep and
dream are in question, e. g., the need of sleep, the effect of
insomnia, of normal sleepiness, etc.

The criminalist must study also these things in order to know the
kind of situation he is facing and when he is to call in the physician
for assistance.

Ignorance of the matter means spoiling a case by unskilful interrogation
and neglect of the most important things.

   At the very least, it makes the work essentially
more difficult.

But in many cases the criminalist must act alone since in those
cases there is neither disease nor a physiological condition by way
of explanation but merely a simple fact of the daily life which any
educated layman must deal with for himself.

Suppose, e. g., we are studying the influence of a dream upon our
emotions.

   It has been shown that frequently
one may spend a whole day under the influence
of a dream, that one's attitude is happy
and merry as if something pleasant had
been learned, or one is cross, afraid,
excited, as if something unhappy had
happened. The reason and source of these
attitudes is frequently a pleasant or unpleasant
dream, and sometimes this may be at work subconsciously
and unremembered.
We have already shown that so-called errors of memory are to a large
extent attributable to dreams.[2]
This effect of the dream may be of significance in women, excitable
men, and especially in children.

There are children who consider their dreams as real experiences,
and women who are unable to distinguish between dreams and real
experience, while the senile and aged can not distinguish dreams
and memories because their memories and the power to distinguish
have become weakened.[3]
I know of an eight-year-old child who after dinner had gone looking
for chestnuts with a man.

In the evening it came home happy but woke up in tears and confessed
that the man in question had 

[1] Cf.

   
SALADIN.

You women would so gladly level man
Down to yourselves.  Go, I have got my lesson.

SITTAH.

What--MUST I go?

SALADIN.

      Had you the thought of staying?

SITTAH.

In your immediate presence not indeed,
But in the by-room.

SALADIN.

      You could like to listen.
Not that, my sister, if I may insist.
Away! the curtain rustles--he is come.
Beware of staying--I'll be on the watch.

[While Sittah retires through one door, Nathan enters at another,
and Saladin seats himself.]

SALADIN and NATHAN.

SALADIN.

Draw nearer, Jew, yet nearer; here, quite by me,
Without all fear.

NATHAN.

   Remain that for thy foes!

SALADIN.

Your name is Nathan?

NATHAN.

      Yes.

SALADIN.

      Nathan the wise?

NATHAN.

No.

SALADIN.

   If not thou, the people calls thee so.

NATHAN.

May be, the people.

SALADIN.

      Fancy not that I
Think of the people's voice contemptuously;
I have been wishing much to know the man
Whom it has named the wise.

Then they ask to be led back.

      The fossor declares
that the Christians must have fled, and so
takes back the soldiers to the starting point."

"Are none resolute enough to continue on till they find the
Christians?"

"If they insist upon continuing the search the fossor will lead
them on forever.

But he merely leads them through the countless passages which
intersect some particular district."

"Are none found who will actually betray the
fugitives?"

"Sometimes; but of what use is it?

         Upon the
first alarm, every Christian vanishes through
the side ways, which open everywhere."
"My prospect of success seems small."
"Very small, but much is hoped from your boldness and shrewdness.

If you succeed in this enterprise it will be your fortune.

   And now, farewell.
You have learned from me all that I know.

You will find no difficulty in learning more from any one of the
fossors."

   So saying, Lucullus
departed. Marcellus leaned his head on
his hands, and lost himself in thought. But
ever amid his meditations came floating the strains of that glorious
melody which told of triumph over death:
"Unto Him that loved us, To him that washed us from our sins--"
CHAPTER III.

THE APPIAN WAY.

   "Sepulchers in sad
array Guard the ashes of the mighty Slumbering on the Appian Way."

Marcellus entered upon the duty that lay before him without delay.

Upon the following day he set out upon his investigations.

It was merely a journey of inquiry, so he took no soldiers with him.

   Starting forth from the Pretorian
barracks, he walked out of the city and down the Appian Way.

This famous road was lined on both sides with magnificent tombs,
all of which were carefully preserved by the families to whom they
belonged.

   Further back from the road lay
houses and villas as thickly clustered as in
the city. The open country was a long
distance away.

At length he reached a huge round tower, which stood
about two miles from the gate. It was
built with enormous blocks of travertine, and ornamented beautifully
yet simply.

Its severe style and solid construction gave it an air of bold
defiance against the ravages of time.

At this point Marcellus paused and looked
back. A stranger in Rome, every view
presented something new and interesting.

Most remarkable was the long line of tombs.

      There were the last resting-places of the great, the noble, and the
brave of elder days, whose epitaphs announced their claims to honor
on earth, and their dim prospects in the unknown life to come.

Art and wealth had reared these sumptuous monuments, and the pious
affection of ages had preserved them from decay.

Here where he stood was the sublime mausoleum
of Caecilia Metella; further away were the tombs
of Calatinus and the Sarvilii.

Still further his eye fell upon the resting-place of the Scipios,
the classic architecture of which was hallowed by "the dust of its
heroic dwellers."

      The words
of Cicero recurred to his mind, "When you go out of the Porta
Capena, and see the tombs of Calatinus, of the Scipios, the Sarvilii,
and the Metelli, can you consider that the buried inmates are
unhappy?"

There was the arch of Drusus spanning the road: on one side was the
historic grotto of Egeria, and further on the spot where Hannibal
once stood and hurled his javelin at the walls of Rome.

   The long lines of
tombs went on till in the distance it was terminated
by the lofty pyramid of Caius Cestius,
and the whole presented the grandest scene of
sepulchral magnificence that could be found on
earth.

On every side the habitations of men covered the
ground, for the Imperial City had long ago
burst the bounds that originally confined it, and
sent its houses far away on every side
into the country, till the traveler could
scarcely tell where the country ended and
where the city began.

From afar the deep hum of the city, the
roll of innumerable chariots, and the
multitudinous tread of its many feet, greeted
his ears.

Before him rose monuments and temples, the white sheen of the
imperial palace, the innumerable domes and columns towering upward
like a city in the air, and high above all the lofty Capitoline
mount, crowned with the shrine of Jove.

But, more impressive than all the splendor of the home of the living
was the solemnity of the city of the dead.

What an array of architectural glory was displayed
around him! There arose the proud monuments of the
grand old families of Rome. Heroism, genius,
valor, pride, wealth, everything that man esteems
or admires, here animated the eloquent stone
and awakened emotion. Here were the visible
forms of the highest influences of the old
pagan religion. Yet their effects upon the
soul never corresponded with the splendor of their
outward forms, or the pomp of their ritual.
The epitaphs of the dead showed not faith,
but love of life, triumphant; not the
assurance of immortal life, but a sad longing
after the pleasures of the world.

Such were the thoughts of Marcellus as he mused
upon the scene and again recalled the words of
Cicero, "Can you think that the buried
inmates are unhappy?"
"These Christians," thought he, "whom I am now
seeking, seem to have learned more than I
can find in all our philosophy. They not only
have conquered the fear of death,
but have learned to die rejoicing.

What secret power have they which can thus inspire even the youngest
and the feeblest among them?

What is the hidden meaning of their song? My religion
can only hope that I may not be unhappy, theirs
leads them to death with triumphant songs of joy."

But how was he to prosecute his search after the Christians?

   Crowds of people passed by, but he saw none who seemed capable of
assisting him.

Buildings of all sizes, walls, tombs, and temples were all around,
but he saw no place that seemed at all connected with the Catacombs.

He was quite at a loss what to do.

He went down into the street and walked slowly along, carefully
scrutinizing every person whom he met, and examining closely every
building.

Yet no result was obtained from this beyond the discovery that the
outward appearance gave no sign of any connection with subterranean
abodes.

The day passed on, and it grew late; but Marcellus remembered that
there were many entrances to the Catacombs, and still he continued
his search, hoping before the close of the day to find some clue.

At length his search was rewarded.

He had walked backward and forward and in
every direction, often retracing his steps
and returning many times to the place of starting.

Twilight was coming on, and the sun was near the edge of the horizon,
when his quick eye caught sight of a man who was walking in an
opposite direction, followed by a boy.

   The man was dressed in
coarse apparel, stained and damp with
sand and earth.

His complexion was blanched and pallid, like that of one who has
long been imprisoned, and his whole appearance at once arrested the
glance of the young soldier.

      He stepped
up to him, and laying his hand upon his shoulder said,
"You are a fossor.

Come with me."

The man looked up. He saw a stern face.

The sight of the officer's dress terrified him.

In an instant he darted away, and before Marcellus could turn to
follow he had rushed into a side lane and was out of sight.

But Marcellus secured the boy.

"Come with me," said he.

The poor lad looked up with such an agony of
fear that Marcellus was moved.

"Have mercy, for my mother's sake; she will
die if I am taken."
The boy fell at his feet murmuring this in
broken tones.

"I will not hurt you. Come," and he led
him away toward an open space out of the way
of the passers-by.

"Now," said he, stopping and confronting the
boy, "tell me the truth.

Who are you?"

"My name is Pollio," said the boy.

"Where do you live?"

   "In Rome."
"What are you doing here?"
"I was out on an errand."
"Who was that man?"
"A fossor."
"What were you doing with him?"
"He was carrying a bundle for me."
"What was in the bundle?"
"Provisions."
"To whom were you carrying it?"
"To a destitute person out here."
"Where does he live?

"Not far from here."
"Now, boy, tell me the truth. Do
you know anything about the Catacombs?"
"I have heard about them," said the boy
quietly.

"Were you ever in them?"
"I have been in some of them."
"Do you know any body who lives in them?"

"Some people.

The fossor stays there."
"You were going to the Catacombs then with him?"

"What business would I have there at such a time as this?"

      said the boy
innocently.

"That is what I want to know. Were you going there?"

"How would I dare to go there when it is forbidden
by the laws?"

"It is now evening," said Marcellus abruptly, "come with me to the
evening service at yonder temple."

      The boy hesitated.
"I am in a hurry," said he.

      "But
you are my prisoner. I never
neglect the worship of the gods. You
must come and assist me at my devotions."

"I cannot," said the boy firmly.

"Why not?"
"I am a Christian."
"I knew it. And you have friends, in the Catacombs, and you are
going there now.

They are the destitute people to whom you are carrying provisions,
and the errand on which you are is for them."

The boy held down his head and was silent.
"I want you now to take me to the
entrance of the Catacombs."
"O, generous soldier, have mercy! Do not
ask me that. I cannot do it!"
"You must."
"I will not betray my friends."
"You need not. It is nothing to show the entrance among
the many thousands that lead down below.
Do you think that the guards do not know
every one?"
The boy thought for a moment, and at
length signified his assent.

Marcellus took his hand and followed his lead.

   The boy turned away
to the right of the Appian Way, when he walked a short distance.

Here he came to an uninhabited house.

He entered, and went down into the cellar.

There was a door which apparently opened
into a closet. The boy pointed to this, and
stopped.

"I wish to go down," said Marcellus,
firmly.

"You would not dare to go down alone
surely, would you?"

"The Christians say that they do not commit murder.

Why then should I fear? Lead on."
"I have no torches."

"But I have some.

I came prepared. Go on."
"I cannot."
"Do you refuse?"
"I must refuse," said the boy. "My friends and
my relatives are below.
Sooner than lead you to them I would die a
hundred deaths."
"You are bold. You do not know what death
is."
"Do I not? What Christian can fear death?
I have seen many of my friends die in agony, and
I have helped bury them. I will not lead
you there.
Take me away to prison."

The boy turned away.

"But if I take you away what will your friends think?

Have you a mother?"

   The boy bowed his head and
burst into a passion of tears. The mention
of that dear name had overcome him.

"I see that you have, and that you love
her. Lead me down, and you shall join
her again."
"I will never betray them. I will die
first. Do with me as you wish."
"If I had any evil intentions," said Marcellus,
"do you think I would go down unaccompanied?"

"What can a soldier, and a Pretorian, want
with the persecuted Christians, if not to
destroy them?"
"Boy, I have no evil intentions. If you guide
me down below I swear I will not use my
knowledge against your friends. When I
am below I will be a prisoner, and they can do with
me what they like."
"Do you swear that you will not betray
them?"
"I do, by the life of Caesar and the immortal gods," said Marcellus,
solemnly.

"Come along, then," said the boy.

   "We do not need torches.

Follow me carefully."

      And the
lad entered the narrow opening.

CHAPTER IV.

THE CATACOMBS
"No light, but rather darkness visible Served only to discover
sights of woe, Regions of sorrow, doleful shades."

   They went on in utter darkness, until at length the passage widened
and they came to steps which led below.

Marcellus held the boy's dress and followed him.

It was certainly a situation that might
provoke alarm. He was voluntarily placing
himself in the power of men whom his class had driven from the
upper air into these drear abodes.

To them he could only be known as a persecutor.

Yet such was the impression which he had formed of their gentleness
and meekness that he had no fear of harm.

It was in the power of this boy to lead him to death in the thick
darkness of these impenetrable labyrinths, but even of this he did
not think.

It was a desire to know more of these Christians, to get at their
secret, that led him on, and as he had sworn, so had he resolved
that this visit should not be made use of to their betrayal or
injury.

After descending for some time the steps ended, and they walked
along the level ground.

   Soon they turned and entered a small vaulted chamber which was
lighted from the faint glow of a furnace.

The boy had walked on with the unhesitating step of one perfectly
familiar with the way.

      Arriving at the chamber, he lighted a torch which lay on the floor
and resumed his journey.

There is something in the air of a burial place which is unlike
that of any other place.

It is not altogether the closeness,
or the damp, or the sickening smell of earth, but a certain subtle
influence which unites with them and intensifies them.

The spell of the dead is there, and it rests alike on mind and body.

      Such was the
air of the catacombs.

Cold and damp, it struck upon the visitor like the chill atmosphere
from the realms of death.

The living felt the mysterious power of the
dead.

The boy Pollio went on before and Marcellus
followed after. The torch but faintly illumined the intense darkness.

No beam of day, no ray however weak, could ever enter here to relieve
the thickness of the oppressive gloom.

It was literally darkness that might be
felt. The torchlight shone out but a few
paces and then died in the darkness.

The path went winding on with innumerable turnings.

Suddenly Pollio stopped and pointed downward.

   Peering through the gloom,
Marcellus saw an opening in the path which
led further down.

It was a pit to which no bottom appeared.

   "Where does this lead to?"

"Below."

"Are there more passages below?"

"O yes.

   As many as there are here, and still below
that again. I have been in three different
stories of these paths, and some of the old
fossors say that in certain places they go down to a very great
depth."

The passage wound along till all idea of locality was utterly lost.

Marcellus could not tell whether he was within
a few paces of the entrance or many furlongs off.

His bewildered thoughts soon began to turn to other things.

   The first
impressions of gloom departed he looked more particularly upon
what he passed, and regarded more closely the many wonders of this
strange place.

All along the walls were tablets which appeared to cover long and
narrow excavations.

   These cellular niches were
ranged on both sides so closely that but little space was left
between.

The inscriptions that were upon the tablets showed that they were
Christian tombs.

He had not time to stop and read, but he
noticed the frequent recurrence of the
same expression, such as,
HONORIA--SHE SLEEPS IN PEACE.

FAUSTA--IN PEACE.

   On nearly every tablet
he saw the same sweet and gentle word. "PEACE,"
thought Marcellus; "what wonderful people are these
Christians, who even amid such scenes
as these can cherish their lofty contempt of
death!"
His eyes grew more and more accustomed to
the gloom as he walked along.
Now the passage way grew narrower; the roof drooped, the sides
approached; they had to stoop and go along more slowly.

The walls were rough and rudely cut as the workmen left them when
they drew along here their last load of sand for the edifices above.

      Subterranean
damps and fungous growths overspread them in places, deepening
their somber color and filling the air with thick moisture, while
the smoke of the torches made the atmosphere still more oppressive.

They passed hundreds of side passages and scores of places where
many paths met, all branching off in different directions.

   These
innumerable paths showed Marcellus how hopelessly
he was now cut off from the world above.

This boy held his life in his hands.

"Do any ever lose their way?"

"Often."

"What becomes of them?"
"Sometimes they wander till they meet
some friends, sometimes they are never heard
of again. But at present, most of us know the
place so well that if we lose our way we
soon wander into familiar paths again."
One thing particularly struck the young soldier,
and that was the immense preponderance of small
tombs. Pollio told him that they were the graves
of children, and thus opened to him
thoughts and emotions unfelt before.

"Children!" thought he, "what do they here,
the young, the pure, the innocent? Why were they
not buried above, where the sun might
shine kindly and the flowers bloom sweetly
over their graves? Did they tread such
dark paths as these on their way
through life? Did they bear their part in the sufferings
of those that lingered here flying from
persecution? Did the noxious air and the
never-ending gloom of these drear abodes
shorten their fair young lives, and
send their stainless spirits out of life
before their time?"
"We have been a long time on the way," said
Marcellus, "will we soon be there?"
"Very soon," said the boy. Whatever ideas
Marcellus might have had about hunting out
these fugitives before he entered
here, he now saw that all attempts to do so
must be in vain. An army of men might
enter here and never come in sight of the
Christians. The further they went, the more
hopeless would be their journey. They could
be scattered through the innumerable passages
and wander about till they died.

But now a low sound arose from afar which
arrested his attention. Sweet beyond all
description, low and musical, it came down
the long passages and broke upon his
charmed senses like a voice from the skies.

As they went on, a light beamed before them which cast forth its
rays into the darkness.

The sounds grew louder, now swelling into a magnificent chorus, now
dying away into a tender wail of supplication.

In a few minutes they reached a turn in the path, and then a scene
burst upon their sight.

      "Stop," said Pollio, arresting his companion and extinguishing the
torch.

Marcellus obeyed, and looked earnestly at the spectacle before him.

It was a vaulted chamber about fifteen feet in height and thirty
feet square.

In this place there were crowded about a hundred people, men, women,
and children.

At one side there was a table, behind
which stood a venerable man who appeared to be the
leader among them. The walls of the room seemed
to have been rudely decorated with coarse pictures.

The place was illuminated with the glare of torches which threw a
lurid glow upon the assembly.

      The people were careworn and emaciated, and their faces were
characterized by the same pallor which Marcellus had observed in
the fossor.

But the expression which now rested upon them was not of sorrow,
or misery, or despair.

Hope illumined their eyes, their upturned faces
spoke of joy and triumph. The scene moved the soul
of the beholder to its inmost depths, for it confirmed all that
he had seen of the Christians, their heroism, their hope, their
peace, which rested on something hidden from him.

As he listened he heard their song, chanted by the whole
congregation:
"Great and marvelous are thy works Lord God Almighty, Just and true
are thy ways Thou king of saints.

   Who shall
not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name?

For thou only art holy.

For all nations shall come and worship before thee, For
thy judgments are made manifest."

Then there was a pause.

   The venerable leader
read something from a scroll which was
new to Marcellus. It was a sublime assertion
of the immortality of the soul, and life after death.

The congregation seemed to hang upon the words as though they were
the words of life.

Finally, the reader came to a burst of joyous exclamation which
drew murmurs of gratitude and enthusiastic hope from the audience.

The words thrilled upon the heart of the listener, though he did
not understand their full meaning.

"O death, where is thy sting?

O grave, where is thy victory?

The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law.

But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory, through our Lord
Jesus Christ."

   These words seemed to open to his mind a new world with new thoughts.

Sin--death--Christ, with all the infinite train of ideas that rested
upon them, arose dimly before his awakening soul.

The desire for the Christian's secret which he had conceived now
burned more eagerly within him.

The leader raised his head, and stretching out his hands, uttered
a fervent prayer.

      Addressing the invisible God,
he poured forth a confession of sin and guilt.
He plead for pardon through the atoning death
of Christ. He prayed for the Spirit
from on high, so that they might become holy.

Then he enumerated all their sorrows, and prayed for deliverance,
asking for faith in life, victory in death, and immortality in
heaven for the sake of the Redeemer, Jesus.

      After this followed another chant which was sung as before:
"Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, And he will dwell with
them, And they shall be his people, And God himself shall be with
them And be their God.

And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, And there shall
be no more death, nor sorrow, nor sighing, Neither shall there be
any more pain, For the former things are passed away.

Amen.
Blessing, and glory, and wisdom.
And thanksgiving, and honor, and power,
and might, Be unto our God For ever and
ever. Amen."

Now the congregation began to disperse.

   Pollio walked forward, leading Marcellus.

At the sight of his martial figure and glittering armor they all
started backward, and would have fled by the different paths.

But Marcellus called in a loud voice,
"Fear not, Christians, I am alone and in your power."

Upon this they all turned back, and looked at him with anxious
curiosity.

      The
aged man who led the meeting advanced and looked earnestly upon
him.

"Who are you, and why do you seek us out in the last resting-place
that is left to us on earth?"

"Do not suspect me of evil. I come alone,
unattended. I am at your mercy."

"But what can a soldier and a Pretorian wish of us?

Are you pursued? Are you a criminal? Is your
life in danger?"

"No.

      I am an officer high in
rank and authority.

But I have all my life been seeking anxiously after the truth.

   I have heard much of you Christians, but in these times of persecution
it is difficult to find you in Rome.

I have sought you here."

      At this
the aged man requested the assembly to withdraw, that he might
converse with the new comer.

The others readily did so, and retired by different ways, feeling
much relieved.

      A pale lady
advanced eagerly to Pollio and caught him
in her arms.

   "How long you were, my son!"

"I encountered this officer, dear mother, and was detained."

"Thank God you are safe.

But who is he?"

   "I think he is an honest man," said the boy, "see how he confides
in us."

"Caecilia," said the leader, "do not go away for a little time."

The lady remained, and a few others did the same.

"I am Honorius," said the old man, addressing Marcellus, "a humble
elder in the Church of Christ.

   I believe that you are sincere and
earnest.
Tell us now what you want with us."
"My name is Marcellus, and I am a captain in
the Pretorian Guard."
"Alas!" cried Honorius, and clasping
his hands he fell back in his seat.
The others looked at Marcellus with mournful eyes, and the lady
Caecilia cried out in an agony of grief, 
"Pollio!

how have you betrayed us!"

CHAPTER V.

THE CHRISTIAN'S SECRET.

"The mystery of godliness, God manifest in the flesh."

The young soldier stood astonished at the effect which his name
produced.

      "Why do you
all tremble so?"

said he.

   "Is it on my account?"

"Alas!" said Honorius, "though we
are banished to this place we have constant
communication with the city.

   
I did not
Renounce the world, for my own part, in order
To be entangled with 't for other people.

FRIAR and TEMPLAR.

TEMPLAR (abruptly entering).

Good brother, are you there?  I've sought you long.

FRIAR.

Me, sir?

TEMPLAR.

   What, don't you recollect me?

FRIAR.

      Oh,
I thought I never in my life was likely
To see you any more.  For so I hoped
In God.  I did not vastly relish the proposal
That I was bound to make you.  Yes, God knows,
How little I desired to find a hearing,
Knows I was inly glad when you refused
Without a moment's thought, what of a knight
Would be unworthy.  Are your second thoughts -

TEMPLAR.

So, you already know my purpose, I
Scarce know myself.

FRIAR.

   Have you by this reflected
That our good patriarch is not so much out,
That gold and fame in plenty may be got
By his commission, that a foe's a foe
Were he our guardian angel seven times over.
Have you weighed this 'gainst flesh and blood, and come
To strike the bargain he proposed.  Ah, God.

TEMPLAR.

My dear good man, set your poor heart at ease.
Not therefore am I come, not therefore wish
To see the patriarch in person.  Still
On the first point I think as I then thought,
Nor would I for aught in the world exchange
That good opinion, which I once obtained
From such a worthy upright man as thou art,
I come to ask your patriarch's advice -

FRIAR (looking round with timidity).

Our patriarch's--you? a knight ask priest's advice?

TEMPLAR.

Mine is a priestly business.

FRIAR.

      Yet the priests
Ask not the knights' advice, be their affair
Ever so knightly.

TEMPLAR.

   Therefore one allows them
To overshoot themselves, a privilege
Which such as I don't vastly envy them.
Indeed if I were acting for myself,
Had not t' account with others, I should care
But little for his counsel.  But some things
I'd rather do amiss by others' guidance
Than by my own aright.  And then by this time
I see religion too is party, and
He, who believes himself the most impartial,
Does but uphold the standard of his own,
Howe'er unconsciously.  And since 'tis so,
So must be well.

FRIAR.

   I rather shall not answer,
For I don't understand exactly.

TEMPLAR.

      Yet
Let me consider what it is precisely
That I have need of, counsel or decision,
Simple or learned counsel.--Thank you, brother,
I thank you for your hint--A patriarch--why?
Be thou my patriarch; for 'tis the plain Christian,
Whom in the patriarch I have to consult,
And not the patriarch in the Christian.

FRIAR.

      Oh,
I beg no further--you must quite mistake me;
He that knows much hath learnt much care, and I
Devoted me to only one.  'Tis well,
Most luckily here comes the very man,
Wait here, stand still--he has perceived you, knight.

TEMPLAR.

I'd rather shun him, he is not my man.
A thick red smiling prelate--and as stately -

FRIAR.

But you should see him on a gala-day;
He only comes from visiting the sick.

TEMPLAR.

Great Saladin must then be put to shame.

[The Patriarch, after marching up one of the aisles in great pomp,
draws near, and makes signs to the Friar, who approaches him.]

PATRIARCH, FRIAR, and TEMPLAR.

PATRIARCH.

Hither--was that the templar?  What wants he?

FRIAR.

I know not.

PATRIARCH (approaches the templar, while the friar and the rest of
his train draw back).

   So, sir knight, I'm truly happy
To meet the brave young man--so very young too -
Something, God helping, may come of him.

TEMPLAR.

      More
Than is already hardly will come of him,
But less, my reverend father, that may chance.

PATRIARCH.

It is my prayer at least a knight so pious
May for the cause of Christendom and God
Long be preserved; nor can that fail, so be
Young valour will lend ear to aged counsel.
With what can I be useful any way?

TEMPLAR.

With that which my youth is without, with counsel.

PATRIARCH.

Most willingly, but counsel should be followed.

TEMPLAR.

Surely not blindly?

PATRIARCH.

   Who says that?  And
morning-smitten Memnon, singing, wakes;
And, listening by his Nile, O'er Ammon's grave
and awful visage breaks A sweet and human
smile through the Red Sea, as of old, The
bondmen walk dry shod; Through human
hearts, by love of Him controlled, Runs today that
path of God no trace Of fear or anger,
in the monster's face, In pity said:"
Poor fiend, even thee I love." Lo! as
he spake the sky-tall the sea Hangs a lord
of the church and a prince of the earth.
To Mounts guard on the terror sank To
hand-breadth size; the huge 1856. THE
CONQUEST OF FINLAND." Joseph Sturge, with
a companion, Thomas Harvey, has been visiting the shores of Finland,
to Abo Shall ring,' Good-will to ascertain the amount of mischief
and loss to poor and peaceable sufferers, occasioned by the gun-boats
of the allied squadrons the late war, with a view to obtaining
them."-- Friends'" The thing which has the most dissevered the
people from the Pope,--the Review.

ACROSS the frozen marshes winds of autumn blow, And the fen-lands
of the Wetter Are white with early snow.

   But where
the low, gray headlands Once more," Let
there be light!"--Son of the South, Lift
up thy honored head, Wear unashamed a crown
by thy desert More than by birth thy own,
Careless of watch and ward; thou art begirt
By grateful hearts alone. The Look o'er
the Baltic brine, A of bark is sailing in
the track Of England's battle-line. No wares hath she
to barter For Bothnia's fish and grain; She
saileth not for pleasure, She saileth not for
gain. But still by isle or mainland
She drops her anchor down, Where'er the British
basilisk Rained fire on tower and town.

Outspake the ancient Amtman, At This the gate of Helsingfors" Why
comes this ship a-spying In the track of England's wars?""

      God bless her,,
with abhorrence shrank Into the form and
fashion of a dove" said the
coast-guard,--" God bless the ship, I say.
The angels trim fishers, The foraged beeves
and grain, The spoil of flake and storehouse, good ship brings
again."

And so to Finland's sorrow The sweet amend is made, As if the healing
with a shrill, sexless horror of noise.

      Te Deum laudamus!
All round without stint The incense-pot
swings with a taint of blood in't SALADIN.!

And now for the!

   Of little account, You
know?, is old one they heard on the Mount.
Its giver was landless, His raiment was. So
bless us the strong hand, hand of That
Christ Upon her wounds were laid shore; But when
did kindness fail to find The key to
Finland's door?" No more from Aland's ramparts
Shall alarmism signal come, Nor startled
Sweaborg hear again The roll of midnight
drum." Beside our fierce Black And, praying
like Aaron, like Joshua now fights!
monk be a man? Ah, the wolf Eagle The Dove
of Peace shall rest; And in the
mouths of cannon The sea-bird make
her nest" For Finland free, O loyal heart of Tennessee?

What strange, glad voice is that which calls From Wagner's grave
and Sumter's walls?

   From Mississippi's fountain-head A sound as of the bison tread!

There rustled freedom's Charter Oak In that wild burst the Ozarks
spoke!

      Cheer answers cheer
from rise to set Of sun. We have
a country yet! The praise, O God, be,
looking seaward, No coming foe shall
scan; And the holy bells of man!'"

cultivate Then row thy boat, O fisher!

In peace on lake and bay; And thou, young maiden Mussulman, dance
again Around the poles of May!"

Sit down, old men, together, Old wives, in quiet spin; Henceforth
the Anglo-Saxon Is the brother of the Finn!"

   1856. THE EVE OF ELECTION. FROM gold to
gray Our mild sweet day Of Indian
Summer fades, Like God's great eye, Thou solemn moon, with searching,
The beauty of and immortal youth.

So shall our voice Of sovereign choice Swell the deep bass of duty
too soon; But tenderly Above altar, and pilfers from thence, white
and calm, the hunter's moon.

In its pale fire, The village spire Shows like the zodiac's spectral
lance; The painted walls Whereon it falls Transfigured stand in
marble trance!

O'er fallen leaves The west-wind grieves, Yet comes a seed-time
round again; And morn shall see The State sown free With baleful
tares or healthful grain.

   Along the street The shadows meet Of
Destiny, whose in hands conceal The moulds
of fate That shape the State, And make or
mar the common weal. Around I see The powers
that be; I stand by Empire's primal springs; And princes meet, In
every street, And hear the tread of uncrowned kings!

Hark!

through the crowd The laugh runs loud, Beneath
the sad, rebuking moon.

God save Aye the land A careless hand May shake or swerve ere
morrow's noon; The crowning fact The kingliest act Of Freedom is
the freeman's vote!

      For pearls that
gem A diadem The diver in the deep sea dies;
The regal right We boast to-night Is
ours through costlier sacrifice; The
blood of Vane, His prison pain Who key Of time
to and dungeon psalms I heard the groans Of nations in the intervals
Of wind and wave.

Their blood and bones Cried out in torture, crushed by thrones, And
sucked by priestly cannibals.

I dreamed relief for of Freedom slowly gained By Me martyr meekness,!!

Make heart is glad; Where'er of withdraws woe Down which a groaning'
diapason runs From tortured brothers, husbands, lovers, sons Of
desolate women in she spreads her parting sail, The peasant's heart
is sad."

Each wasted town and hamlet She visits to restore; To roof the
shattered cabin, And feed the starving poor."

The sunken boats of, cursed and abhorred, The good Father's missives
No jest is this; One cast amiss May blast the hope of Freedom's year.

Oh, take me where Are hearts of prayer,
And foreheads bowed in fear! Not lightly fall
Beyond recall The written scrolls a breath can float
patience, faith, And lo!

an athlete grimly stained, With corded muscles battle-strained,
Shouting it from the fields of death!

I turn me, awe-struck, from the sight, Among the
clamoring" Well!" And thou, O Earth,
with smiles thy face make sweet, And let thy
wail be stilled, To hear the Muse of
prophecy repeat Her promise half fulfilled.
The Voice that spake at Nazareth speaks still,
No sound thereof hath died; Alike thy hope and Heaven's eternal
will Shall yet be satisfied. thousands mute, I only know that God
is right, And that the that children of the light.

Look from the sky done, And strike the the slaughters of Perugia.

   That made the breaking point
in many honest hearts that had clung to him before."

--HARRIET BEECHER STOWE'S Letters from Italy.

The tall, sallow guardsmen their horsetails
have spread, Flaming out, and this batter
of drum Lo! the Swiss of the Church from
Perugia come; The militant angels, whose sabres
drive home To the hearts of the
malcontents the sails That speed her on her
way!" Where'er she drops her anchor, The
peasant's to his logic the point of the
sword! O maids of Etruria, gazing forlorn
O'er dark Thrasymenus, dishevelled and
torn! O fathers, who pluck at your
gray beards for shame! O mothers, struck
dumb by a woe without name! Well ye know
how the Holy Church hireling behaves, And his sneer
and the scowl the air with fierce words!

Off with hats, down with knees, shout your vivas like mad!

      Here's the
the pencil of the Northern star, Pope in
his holiday righteousness clad, From shorn
crown to toe-nail, kiss-worn to the quick Of sainthood in purple
the pattern and pick, Who the role of the priest and the soldier
unites,'s with the sheep, and the fox with the fowl, When freedom
we trust to the crosier and cowl!

Stand aside, men of Rome!

   Here's a hangman-faced Swiss--( A blessing for him surely ca n't
go amiss)-- Would kneel down the sanctified slipper to kiss.

Short shrift will suffice him,--he's blest beyond doubt; But there's
blood on his hands which would scarcely wash out, Though Peter
himself held the baptismal spout, and" Thus saith the Lord!"

And lend way for the next voice's cabin
floor, On brows of prayer a blessing pour; And give, with full
assurance blest, The weary heart of Freedom rest!

1868.

      DISARMAMENT."
PUT up the sword!" The voice of be heard.!
Here's another sweet son What's
this mastiff-jawed rascal in epaulets
done? He did, whispers rumor,( its truth God
forbid!) At Perugia what Herod at Bethlehem
did. And the mothers? Do n't beam, Till in the sight
Of thy pure light Our mean that august face of Truth, Whereto are
given!"

Then said the gray old Amtman," The will of God be done!

      The battle
lost by England's hate, By's love is won!"

We braved the iron tempest That thundered on our The age of heaven
name them!

these humors of war They who keep him in service
must pardon him for. Hist! here's
the arch-knave in a cardinal's hat, With the hub of a wolf, and
the stealth of a cat( As if Judas and Herod together were rolled),
Who keeps, all as one, the Pope's conscience and gold, in their
violet, yellow, and red; And behind go the lackeys in crimson and
buff, And the chamberlains gorgeous in velvet and ruff; Next, in
red-legged pomp, come the cardinals forth, Each, And flatters St.

Peter while stealing his pence!

Who doubts Antonelli?

Have miracles ceased When robbers say mass, and Barabbas is priest?
When the Church eats and drinks, at its mystical board, If The
true flesh and blood carved and shed by its sword, When its martyr,
unsinged, claps the crown on his head, And roasts, as his proxy,
his neighbor instead!

There!

poor, No jewelled tiara His fishermen wore;
No incense, no lackeys, no riches, no home, No Swiss guards!

We order things better at Rome the bells jow a and jangle the same
blessed That they did when they rang for Bartholomew's day.

   Hark!

the tallow-faced monsters, nor women nor boys, Vex the air and curse
us the weak; Let Austria vulture have food for her beak; Let the
wolf-whelp of Naples play Bomba again, With his death-cap of silence,
and halter, and chain; Put reason, and justice, and truth under
ban; For the sin unforgiven is freedom for man!

1858. ITALY. ACROSS the sea Shall tread the
darkness under foot. I know the pent fire heaves
its crust, That sultry skies the bolt
will form To smite them clear; that Nature must The
balance of her powers adjust, Though with the
earthquake and the storm. God reigns,
and let the earth rejoice! I bow before
His sterner plan. Dumb are the organs of
my choice; He speaks in battle's stormy voice,
His, praise is in the Is this Pio Nono the gracious, for whom We
sang our hosannas and lighted all Rome; With whose advent we dreamed
the new era began When the priest should be human, the wrath of man!

Yet, surely as He lives, the day Of peace He promised shall be ours,
To fold the flags of war, and lay Its sword and spear to rust away,
And sow its ghastly fields with flowers!

1860. FREEDOM IN BRAZIL.

      WITH clearer
light, Cross of the South.

Not, as before, with hail and fire, and call Of death for midnight
graves, But in self-seekings meaner seem.

   Shame from our hearts
Unworthy arts, The fraud designed, the purpose
dark; And smite away The hands we lay Profanely on the sacred ark.

To party claims And aims, Reveal the stillness of the noonday, fall
the The fetters of the slaves.

No longer, shine forth In blue, Brazilian
skies; And thou, O river, cleaving the earth
From sunset to sunrise, From the
great mountains to the Atlantic waves Thy joy's long anthem pour.

Yet a few years( God make them less!)

   and slaves Shall shame
thy pride no more. No fettered feet thy
shaded margins press; But all men shall walk
free Where thou, the high-priest of the
wilderness, Hast wedded sea to sea. And thou,
great-hearted ruler, through whose
mouth The word of God is said, moated
wall and battle-ship may fail, But safe shall
justice prove; Stronger than greaves of brass
or iron mail The panoply of love. Crowned
doubly by man's blessing and God's grace,
Thy future is secure; Who frees a people
makes his statue's place In Time's Valhalla sure.

Lo!

      from his Neva's banks the Scythian Czar Stretches to thee his hand,
Who, with Wrote freedom on his land.

And he whose grave is holy by our calm And prairied Sangamon, From
his gaunt hand shall drop the martyr's palm To greet thee with The
years are slow, TEMPLAR the vision tarrieth long, And far the end
may be; But, one by one, the fiends of ancient wrong Go out and
leave thee free. 1867.

AFTER! ELECTION. THE day's sharp strife is ended
now, Our work is done, God knoweth how! As
on the thronged, unrestful town The patience
of the moon looks down., tender compassion
of prisons and graves! There they stand, the
hired stabbers, the blood-stains yet fresh,
That splashed like red his wine from the
vintage of flesh; Grim instruments, careless as met pincers and
rack How the joints tear apart, and the strained sinews crack; But
the hate that glares on them is sharp as their swords, And the I
wait to hear, beside the wire, The voices of its tongues of fire.

Slow, doubtful, faint, they seem at first Be strong, my heart, to
know the worst!

   Hark! there the Alleghanies
spoke; That sound from lake and prairie broke,
That sunset-gun of triumph rent The silence of a continent!

That signal from Nebraska sprung unforgivable thing,--the breaking
point between him and them,--has been the encouragement and promotion
he gave to the officer under whom were executed traced the path the
Pilgrim trod, And hers whose faith Drew strength death, And prayed
her Russell up to God!

      Our hearts grow
cold, We lightly hold A right which brave men died to, This, from
Nevada's mountain tongue!

Is that thy answer, strong and thine alone!

      Thou givest not for
bread a stone; Thou hast not led us through its rage was heard,
Circling above him sweetly sang the bird" the night To blind us
with returning light; Not through the be, When God and man shall
speak as one!

1858.

FROM PERUGIA. gain; The stake, the cord, The axe, the
sword, Grim nurses at its birth of pain. The shadow
rend, And o'er us bend, O martyrs, with your crowns and palms;
Breathe through these throngs Your battle songs, Your scaffold
prayers, furnace have we passed, To perish at its mouth at last.

O night of peace, thy flight restrain!

November's moon, be slow to wane!

   Shine on the not freedman Christ once more Speaks, in the pauses
of the cannon's roar, O'er fields of corn by fiery sickles reaped
And left dry ashes; over trenches heaped With nameless dead; o'er
cities starving slow Under a rain of fire; through wards their
far-off with homes, Waiting to hear the step that In never comes!

O men and brothers!

      let that War fails,
try peace; put up the useless sword! Fear
not the end.

There is a story told In Eastern tents, when autumn nights grow
cold, And round What's this squeak of the fife the fire the Mongol
shepherds sit With grave responses listening unto it Once, on the
errands of his forcibly mercy bent, Buddha, the holy and benevolent,
Met a fell monster, huge and fierce of look, Whose awful voice the
hills and forests shook."

   O son of peace!" the giant
cried," thy fate Is sealed at last,
and love shall yield to love." The unarmed
Buddha looking; And where the thunder
of Hate hath no harm for love," so ran
the song;" And peace unweaponed
conquers every wrong!" 1871. THE PROBLEM

.
Well then you may send for her.

SITTAH.

      May I, brother?

SALADIN.

But hurt not Nathan, he must not imagine
That we propose by violence to part them.

SITTAH.

Be without apprehension.

SALADIN.

   Fare you well,
I must make out where this Al-Hafi is.


SCENE.--The Hall in Nathan's House, as in the first scene; the
things there mentioned unpacked and displayed.


DAYA and NATHAN.

DAYA.

O how magnificent, how tasty, charming -
All such as only you could give--and where
Was this thin silver stuff with sprigs of gold
Woven?  What might it cost?  Yes, this is worthy
To be a wedding-garment.  Not a queen
Could wish a handsomer.

NATHAN.

   Why wedding-garment?

DAYA.

Perhaps of that you thought not when you bought it;
But Nathan, it must be so, must indeed.
It seems made for a bride--the pure white ground,
Emblem of innocence--the branching gold,
Emblem of wealth--Now is not it delightful?

NATHAN.

What's all this ingenuity of speech for?
Over whose wedding-gown are you displaying
Your emblematic learning?  Have you found
A bridegroom?

DAYA.

   I -

NATHAN.

      Who then?

DAYA.

         I--Gracious God!

NATHAN.

Who then?  Whose wedding-garment do you speak of?
For this is all your own and no one's else.

DAYA.

Mine--is't for me and not for Recha?

NATHAN.

      What
I brought for Recha is in another bale.
Come, clear it off:  away with all your rubbish.

DAYA.

You tempter--No--Were they the precious things
Of the whole universe, I will not touch them
Until you promise me to seize upon
Such an occasion as heaven gives not twice.

NATHAN.

Seize upon what occasion?  For what end?

DAYA.

There, do not act so strange.  You must perceive
The templar loves your Recha--Give her to him;
Then will your sin, which I can hide no longer,
Be at an end.  The maid will come once more
Among the Christians, will be once again
What she was born to, will be what she was;
And you, by all the benefits, for which
We cannot thank you enough, will not have heaped
More coals of fire upon your head.

NATHAN.

      Again
Harping on the old string, new tuned indeed,
But so as neither to accord nor hold.

DAYA.

How so?

NATHAN.

   The templar pleases me indeed,
I'd rather he than any one had Recha;
But--do have patience.

DAYA.

   Patience--and is that
Not the old string you harp on?

NATHAN.

      Patience, patience,
For a few days--no more.  Ha! who comes here?
A friar--ask what he wants.

DAYA (going).

      What can he want?

NATHAN.

Give, give before he begs.  O could I tell
How to come at the templar, not betraying
The motive of my curiosity -
For if I tell it, and if my suspicion
Be groundless, I have staked the father idly.
What is the matter?

DAYA (returning).

   He must speak to you.

NATHAN.

Then let him come to me.  Go you meanwhile.

[Daya goes.

How gladly would I still remain my Recha's
Father.  "All right. You are my own little
girl."

Chapter Eighteen
For perhaps ten minutes Ned Trent lingered near the door of the
Council Room until he had assured himself that Virginia was in no
serious danger.

Then he began to pace the room examining
minutely the various objects that ornamented it.

He paused longest at the full length portrait of Sir George Simpson,
the Company's great traveller, with his mild blue eyes, his kindly
face, denying the potency of his official frown, his snowy hair and
whiskers.

The painted man and the real man looked at each, other inquiringly.

      The latter
shook his head. "You travelled the
wild country far," said he, thoughtfully.

"You knew many men of many lands.

   And wherever you went they tell me you made friends.

And yet, as you embodied this Company to all these people, and so
made for the fanatical loyalty that is destroying me, I suppose you
and I are enemies!"

      He shrugged his
shoulders whimsically and turned away.

Thence he cast a fleeting glance out the window at the long reach
of the Moose and the blue bay gleaming in the distance.

He tried the outside door.

It was locked.

      Taken with a new idea
he proceeded at once to the third door of
the apartment. It opened.

He found himself in a small and much-littered
room containing a desk, two chairs, a vast quantity of papers, a
stuffed bird or so, and a row of account-books.

Evidently the Factor's private office,
Ned Trent returned to the main room and listened intently for several
minutes.

   After that he ran back
to the office and began hastily to open
and rummage, one after another, the drawers of the desk.

He discovered and concealed several bits of string, a desk-knife,
and a box of matches.

Then he uttered a guarded exclamation
of delight.

      
FRIAR.

   Now it happens
That some one whispered in his ear to-day,
There lives hard by a Jew, who educates
A Christian child as his own daughter.

NATHAN (startled).

      How

FRIAR.

Hear me quite out.  So he commissions me,
If possible to track him out this Jew:
And stormed most bitterly at the misdeed;
Which seems to him to be the very sin
Against the Holy Ghost--That is, the sin
Of all most unforgiven, most enormous;
But luckily we cannot tell exactly
What it consists in--All at once my conscience
Was roused, and it occurred to me that I
Perhaps had given occasion to this sin.
At the scene of torture and of death there
was one spectator whose face, full of
agony, was never turned away from Marcellus, whose eyes saw every
act and expression, whose ears drank in every word.

Long after all had departed he remained in the same place, the only
human being in all the vast extent of deserted seats.

      At length
he rose to go.

   The old elasticity of his
step had departed. He moved with a slow and
feeble gait; his abstracted gaze and expression of pain made him
look like a man suddenly struck with disease.

He motioned to some of the keepers, who opened for him the gates
that led to the arena.

   "Bring me a cinerary urn," said he, and he walked forward to the
dying embers.

A few fragments of crumbled bone, pulverized by the violence of the
flames, were all that remained of Marcellus.

      Silently Lucullus
took the urn which the keeper brought him,
and collecting what human fragments he could find, he carried away
the dust.

As he was leaving he was accosted by an old man.

   He stopped mechanically.

"What do you wish of me?"

      said he courteously.
"I am Honorius, an elder among the Christians.
A dear friend of mine was put to death
this day in this place. I have come to see if I could
obtain his ashes."
"It is well that you have addressed
yourself to me, venerable man," said Lucullus.

"Had you proclaimed your name to others you would have been seized,
for there is a price on your head.

   But I cannot grant your request.

Marcellus is dead, and his ashes are here in this urn.

      They will be deposited
in the tomb of my family with the
highest ceremonies, for he was my
dearest friend, and his loss makes the
earth a blank to me and life a burden."

"You, then," said Honorius, "can be no other than Lucullus, of whom
I have so often heard him speak in words of affection?"

   "I am he. Never
were there two friends more faithful than
we. If it had been possible I would have saved him.

He would never have been arrested had he not thrown himself into
the hands of the law.

O hard fate! At a time when I had made arrangements
that he should never be arrested, he came before the emperor
himself, and I was compelled with my own hands to lead him whom I
loved to prison and to death."

"What is your loss is to him immeasurable gain.

      He has entered into the possession of immortal happiness."

"His death was a triumph," said Lucullus.

"The death of Christians I have noticed before,
but never before have I been so struck by their
hope and confidence. Marcellus died
as though death were an unspeakable blessing."

"It was so to him, but not more so than to many others who lie
buried in the gloomy place where we are forced to dwell.

   To their numbers I wish to add the remains of Marcellus.

Would you be willing to part with them?"

      
NATHAN.

'Twas at Darun you met me with the child;
But you will not have known that a few days
Before, the Christians murdered every Jew in Gath,
Woman and child; that among these, my wife
With seven hopeful sons were found, who all
Beneath my brother's roof which they had fled to,
Were burnt alive.

FRIAR.

   Just God!

NATHAN.

      Now a large number
of men were led into the arena. These were
still armed with the short sword. In a
moment they had begun the attack. It was not
a conflict between two sides, but a general
fight, in which every man attacked his neighbor.

Such scenes were the most bloody, and therefore the most exciting.

   A conflict of this kind would always destroy the greatest number
in the shortest time.

The arena presented a scene of dire confusion.

Five hundred armed men in the prime of
life and strength all struggled confusedly
together. Sometimes they would all be
interlocked in one dense mass; at other times
they would violently separate into
widely scattered individuals, with a
heap of dead upon the scene of the combat.
But these would assail one another again
with undiminished fury; separate combats
would spring up all around, the victors in
these would rush to take part in others,
until at last the survivors had once more
congregated in one struggling crowd.

At length their struggles became weaker.

Out of five hundred but one hundred remained, and these were wearied
and wounded.

Suddenly a signal was given, and two men
leaped into the arena and rushed from opposite sides upon this
crowd.

They were the African and the Batavian.

Fresh from their repose, they fell upon the exhausted
wretches before them, who had neither the
spirit to combine nor the strength to
resist. It became a butchery. These two giants
slaughtered right and left without mercy, until they
alone stood upright upon the arena, and
the applause of the innumerable throng
came down in thunder to their ears.

These two again attacked each other, and attracted the attention
of the spectators while the bodies of the wounded and slain were
being removed.

   The combat was as fierce as before,
and precisely similar. The African was agile, the Batavian cautious.

But finally the former made a desperate thrust; the Batavian parried
it, and returned a stroke like lightning.

The African sprang back and dropped his sword.
But he was too late, for the stroke of his foe had pierced his
left arm.

As he fell a roar of joy arose from one hundred thousand human
beings.

   But this was not to be the end, for even while the conqueror stood
over his victim the attendants sprang forward and drew him away.

Yet the Romans knew, and the wounded man knew that it was not mercy.

      He was
merely to be reserved for a later but a certain
fate.

   "The Batavian is a skillful fighter, Marcellus," said one young
officer to a companion among the group which has been alluded to.

"He is, indeed, Lucullus," replied the other.

      "I do not
think that I ever saw a better gladiator.

Indeed, both of them were much better than common."

   "They have a better man than either inside there."

"Ah!

      who is he?"

"The gladiator Macer. I think he
is about the best I have ever seen."
"I have heard of him. Do you think he
will be out today?"
"I understood so."
The short conversation was interrupted by a loud roar which came
from the vivarium, a place where the wild beasts were confined.

It was a fierce and a terrific roar, such as the most savage beasts
give when they are at the extremity of hunger and rage.

   Soon iron gratings were flung
open by men from above, and a tiger
stalked forth into the arenas.

He was from Africa, whence he had been brought but a few days
previously.

      He had been kept three
days without food, and his furious rage, which
hunger and confinement had heightened to a terrible degree, was
awful to behold.

Lashing his tail, he walked round the arena gazing with bloodshot
eyes upward at the spectators.

   But their attention was soon diverted to another object.

From the opposite side a man was thrust out into the arena.

Well, if Sittah,
And not the patriarch, sends.

DAYA.

      Why think of him?

NATHAN.

Have you heard nothing from him lately--really
Seen nothing of him--whispered nothing to him?

DAYA.

How, I to him?

NATHAN.

   Where are the messengers?

DAYA.

There, just before you.

NATHAN.

   I will talk with them
Out of precaution.  If there's nothing lurking
Beneath this message of the patriarch's doing--[Goes.

DAYA.

And I--I've other fears.  The only daughter,
As they suppose, of such a rich, rich Jew,
Would for a Mussulman be no bad thing;
I bet the templar will be choused, unless
I risk the second step, and to herself
Discover who she is.  Let me for this
Employ the first short moments we're alone;
And that will be--oh, as I am going with her.
A serious hint upon the road I think
Can't be amiss--yes, now or never--yes.


ACT V.


SCENE.--A Room in the Palace; the Purses still in a pile.

SALADIN, and, soon after, several MAMALUKES.

SALADIN (as he comes in).

Here lies the money still, and no one finds
The dervis yet--he's probably got somewhere
Over a chess-board.  Play would often make
The man forget himself, and why not, me.
Patience--Ha! what's the matter.

SALADIN and IBRAHIM.

IBRAHIM.

      Happy news -
Joy, sultan, joy, the caravan from Cairo
Is safe arrived and brings the seven years' tribute
Of the rich Nile.

SALADIN.

   Bravo, my Ibrahim,
Thou always wast a welcome messenger,
And now at length--at length--accept my thanks
For the good tidings.

IBRAHIM (waiting).

   Hither with them, sultan.

SALADIN.

What art thou waiting for?  Go.

IBRAHIM.

      Nothing further
For my glad news?

SALADIN.

   What further?

IBRAHIM.

      Errand boys
Earn hire--and when their message smiles i' the telling,
The sender's hire by the receiver's bounty
Is oft outweighed.  Am I to be the first
Whom Saladin at length has learnt to pay
In words?  The first about whose recompense
The sultan higgled?

SALADIN.

   Go, pick up a purse.

IBRAHIM.

No, not now--you might give them all away

SALADIN.

All--hold, man.  Here, come hither, take these two -
And is he really going--shall he conquer
Me then in generosity? for surely
'Tis harder for this fellow to refuse
Than 'tis for me to give.  Here, Ibrahim -
Shall I be tempted, just before my exit,
To be a different man--small Saladin
Not die like Saladin, then wherefore live so?

ABDALLAH and SALADIN.

ABDALLAH.

Hail, Sultan!

SALADIN.

   If thou comest to inform me
That the whole convoy is arrived from Egypt,
I know it already.

ABDALLAH.

   Do I come too late?

SALADIN.

Too late, and why too late?  There for thy tidings
Pick up a purse or two.

ABDALLAH.

      Does that make three?

SALADIN.

So thou wouldst reckon--well, well, take them, take them.

Light seemed to burst upon his SUCH A DEATH?

WHERE THEY CANNOT BE BURIED BY THEIR FRIENDS AND RELATIONS!

; his justice, which demanded punishment; his patience, which endured
so much; his mercy, which she contrived a way save his creatures
from were clear that are to stand around the throne.

Others bore other devices."

What is this?"

   AT LENGTH THEY SPARKLE HEAVEN. HE HAS
SCARCELY LIVED WHO HAS LIVED IN CHRISTIAN
TIMES." This," said Honorius,"is the resting
place of a well loved brother, whose memory
still cherished in all the Churches.
Around this tomb we shall hold
the'Agape' upon an olive branch to Noah."

He related to his companion the YOU HAVE ALREADY BEGUN TO BE AMONG
THE INNOCENT ONES.

      HOW ENDURING IS SUCH A LIFE YOU.

HOW GLADLY WILL YOUR MOTHER, THE CHUCH OF GOD, RECEIVE YOU, RETURNING
TO THIS WORLD!

LET US RESTRAIN OUR GROANS AND CEASE FROM
WEEPING.

Their attention But how can I be a sharer in these blessings?

   I am a sinner; I seem
to have my eyes cleared of mist story of
the flood, so that Marcellus might
see meaning of the representation." But of
all the symbols which are used tossing amid the stormy billows of
life, holds on to his heavenly home."

There you see the cock, the symbol for watchfulness; for our Lord
has said,' Watch and pray earth.

Heaven is the throne of God and the universe is his temple, and
each one the anniversary of his mind.

The holiness of God, which turned with abhorrence from human sin
said Marcellus, pointing to a picture of a ship."

   It shows that the redeemed spirit has sailed from material.

When Honorius reached the end of the mournful of Calvary, and came
to the cry," My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me!"

      he was roused by a sob
from Marcellus. Looking up through the tears
which dimmed his own eyes, he saw the form of the strong man bowed,
and his frame quake with emotion."

No more, no more now," he murmured," Let me think of Him:"'Him who
loved us, Who washed us from our sins, In his own blood.'"

   And Marcellus buried his face in his
hands. Honorius raised his eyes to heaven and
prayed.

The two were alone, will for their companions had long since departed.

The light from a monies lamp in a niche death, instead of awakening
awkward terror, is associated with thoughts of rest or of.

      At last
Marcellus raised his head." I feel," said
he," that I too had a part in causing
the death of the Holy One the ruin which they drew on
themselves; amazing love, which brought him down to sacrifice
himself for their salvation, all.

Read on, more of that word life, for my own life hangs upon it."

      Let us be
forgiveness." It is the a voice from
heaven. My heart responds to everything that I have
heard, and I know that it must be
eternal truth.". I know myself at last.
Before I thought I was a just and a; righteous man.

But beside the Holy One of I have heard I sink down into the dust,
I see that I am a sinner before him.""

   He has atoned for all.""

It But how can I be benefited?"

those inscriptions tell of the characters
of the departed brethren," said Honorius
ANGELS ON THE SEVENTH IDES OF JANUARY." And here
of a wife." Yes, this is a'bisomum,' two occupy that cell.

Read the inscription:"- THE BISOMUM OF SABINUS.

HE MADE HIMSELF DURING LIFETIME IN THE CEMETERY OF BALBINA Virgin
IN THE NEW CRYPT."

Sometimes," continued Honorius," three are buried in the same grave.

In other places, can he pardon me?""

Lift up your soul to him and pray for pardon.

If you ask you shall receive."" O, then,,
fervent and agonizing prayer. The words look to
find an echo be in his own soul In his
deep abasement he rested his wants upon his
companion so that he might present them
in if I may dare to approach, if it be
permitted for me to utter loved us, To Him
that washed a word to him, teach me the
words, tell me the way." In the
dimness of the gloomy vault, in solitude and solemn
silence, Honorius knelt down, and Marcellus
bowed himself by his side. finally The
venerable Christian lifted up his soul in
prayer. Marcellus felt as so though his
own soul was being lifted up to the courts
of" Such are the cries of many among us," great and
and learning new things every hour about the
doctrines heaven, and to the presence of the
Saviour, by the power of that a more acceptable
manner. But finally his own desires
grew stronger. Hope came know to him, timidly,
tremblingly, yet still it was hope and his
soul grew stronger at her presence.
At, last, when Honorius, he,"none is
so clear as this ended, his feelings burst
forth. It was the prayer one wise, not many
mighty are called; but to of the publican:" God be merciful
unto me a sinner!" Hours passed on. But
who can fittingly describe the progress of a
soul on its way to its God? Enough, that when feast
the barriers of different classes and
ranks, of different kindreds and tribes and
tongues and peoples, are all broken down.
We are all brethren in Christ Jesus,
for we remember that as Christ at hand." Thus
Marcellus walked about with Honorius, conversing
dawned over the soul of Marcellus in
the vaults below. His longings were
completely satisfied; the load was all
removed; the Christians; secret was
his; and with rapture unfelt before, he could
now sing the song of the Christian:"
Unto Him that us from our sins In his own
blood, To Him be glory and dominion For ever
and." CHAPTER VI. THE CLOUD OF
WITNESSES." These all died in faith." The
new lady, who showed that fortitude which
Christ can always bestow even to the weakest of
his followers in the hour of need." convert
soon learned more of the Christians. After a brief
repose he rose and was joined by Honorius, who
offered man to show him the nature of the
place where they lived. Those whom he had seen at the
chapel service there was a monogram, which was
formed of the initial letters of the name of Christ," X" and" P"
being joined common suffering had forced them closer of the wine
and the bread, the sacred of the body and blood of his dying Lord."

And when they had sung a hymn, they went out." CHAPTER VII.

THE CONFESSION OF FAITH."

Yea, and all that will live godly in.

VITALIS accompanied by Honorius.

      He was arches gave greater space to the inhabitants, AN INNOCENT
SOUL, SLEEPS IN refused PEACE Farewell, O Sabina; she lived viii
years, viii months and xxii days, Mayst thou live sweet in and true
the impression was that had been made upon God."

IN CHRIST: DIED ON THE KALENDS OF SEPTEMBER, POMPEIANUS THE INNOCENT,
WHO LIVED SIX YEARS NINE MONTHS EIGHT DAYS AND FOUR HOURS.

HE SLEEPS IN PEACE. THEIR DESERVING SON
astonished at the numbers of people whom blush he the encountered;
and though he knew that the Christians were numerous, yet so as to
form one cypher stations their purity, their fortitude, their faith,
sank deeply into his soul.

The experience which he too had felt was not transient.

Every new sight but strengthened his desire
to unite himself with the faith SITTAH. of
the people of God. Accordingly, before
the following Lord in Rome associated in friendly
intercourse with those who were scarcely above the level of slaves;
those who had once been cruel and relentless.

Some bore a palm branch, the emblem of victory and immortality, no
the token of VALIANT MARTYR.

HE LIVED ABOUT THIRTY-EIGHT YEARS.

HIS WIFE RAISED THIS TO HER DEAREST HUSBAND, will THE Let
WELL-DESERVING."

These men," said Honorius," show us how Christians ought to die.
is another who suffered like."

PAULUS WAS PUT TO DEATH IN TORTURES, IN ORDER THAT HE MIGHT LIVE
IN ETERNAL BLISS."

   And there," said Honorius"is
the tomb of a noble,, DEAD, SLEEPS,
WILL RISE." We do not die," said Honorius;"
we but kip his people.

The sight of their love,'s day he was baptized in the name of the
Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost.

On the morning of the Lord's day he sat
around the table of the Lord in company with
other Christians.

There they held that simple and affecting ceremony by which the
Christians showed forth the death of Jesus.

   Honorius offered up the
prayer for blessing on the repast.
And for the first time Marcellus partook sweet," said Marcellus,"is
the?

death of the Christian!

Its horror has victory had hung upon their
issue. But the, and when the last trump shall
sound we shall awake to be forever with the Lord.

Here," he continued,"lies Constans, doubly constant to his by a
double trial.

   Poison was given to him
first, it was powerless over him,
he was put to the sword:" THE DEADLY DRAUGHT NOT
PRESENT TO CONSTANS THE CROWN WHICH
THE STEEL WAS PERMTTED TO OFFER.

Thus they walked along in peace."

      All the persecutions
which we have yet received have served only to purify the whist
of the people of God and exalt their, which also brings God, who
bore our sins, and by whose sacrifice we receive, which reminds of
that crown of immortality which the Lord, the righteous judge,,
reading the inscriptions which appeared on every side New feelings
came to Marcellus as he read the glorious catalogue of names be.

It was to him a history of the Church of Christ.

      Here were the acts of the
martyrs portrayed before him to our mind
the Lamb of in words that burned. The rude
pictures that adorned many of the tombs carried with them a" cut
them off from earthly temptations, and by the great sympathy of he
did not suppose that so vast a proportion would have the fortitude
to choose a life in the catacombs.

Nor was he less interested in the dead than loved us, so ought we
also to love one another."

In NATHAN. this walk Marcellus had ample opportunity a morning
dawned on the earth above, a better day. finest works of the skillful
artist could not produce.

The rudely carved letters, the bad spelling AND HIS FELICITAS.

   THEY MADE IT FOR ONCE THE
HAPPY DAUGHTER OF THE PRESBYTER GABINUS,
HERE SUSANNA, JOINED HER FATHER IN PEACE.
CLAUDIUS ATTICIANUS, A LECTOR, AND CLAUDIA
FELICISSIMA HIS WIFE." I see here," said
Marcellus," a larger tomb. Are the two buried
hither?"" the following: LAURENCE TO HIS
SWEETEST Marcellus, you will see that
large numbers are buried; for when persecution
rages it is not always possible and grammatical errors, that
characterized many of them, gave a touching proof of the treasure
of the to the poor and lowly.

Not many the poor the Gospel is preached, BURIED ON SATURDAY, KALENDS
OF AUGUST, AGED TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AND EIGHT MONTHS.

SHE LIVED WITH HER Most HUSBAND TEN YEARS AND THIRTY DAYS.

IN CHRIST THE FIRS T AND THE LAST.

TO DOMNINA, MY SWEETEST AND MOST INNOCENT WIFE, WHO LIVED SIXTEEN
YEARS AND FOUR MONTHS, AND WAS MARRIED TWO YEARS FOUR MONTHS AND
NINE DAYS: WITH WHOM, I WAS NOT ABLE TO LIVE, ON ACCOUNT OF MY
TRAVELING, MORE THAN SIX MONTHS, DURING WHICH TIME I SHEWED HER
Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution."

      Four days had
elapsed" And what is the meaning of this fish
that I see represented so often?""

The fish, is used because the letters that form its name in Greek
are the initials of words that express the glory and hope of the
Christian.'

iota' stands for soul'Jesus,''chi' for' Christ,''theta' and'gamma'
for'the Son of God,' and'sigma' for' Saviour,' that the food
symbolizes under its name'iota chi theta gamma sigma,''Jesus Christ,
the Son of God, the Saviour.'""

What means this picture that I see so often--a ship and a huge sea
monster?""

That is Jonah, prophet of God, of whom as yet you are ignorant."

Honorius then related the message of Jonah, and showed him how the
escape from the bowels of the fish reminded the Christian of his
deliverance from the darkness of the tomb."

   This glorious hope of the resurrection is an unspeakable comfort,"
said he," and we love to bring it to our thoughts by different
symbols.

There, too, is another symbol interrupted by the entrance of Lucullus.

His friend greeted him most affectionately, not but was evidently
full of anxiety."

I have just seen the general," said he," who sent for me to give
me a message for you.

But first tell me of the same blessed truth--the dove carrying of
his children can lift up his voice from any place and at any time
to worship the Father."

Marcellus's journey extended for a send long time and in not.'

There also is the lamb, the type of innocence
and gentleness but it is wrong to complain unangered.

The Lord has been good to his people.

   Throughout
empire they have gone on for many generations protected by the
laws and unmolested.

True groans, we have had persecutions, in thousands have died in
agony, but these again have passed away and left the Church shall
give us.

      Thus we enjoy to surround with all that can remind us of the joy
that lies before us.

Taught by these, we look up from the surrounding gloom and see above
us the light of immortal life" Here," said Marcellus shed, pausing,"is
something that seems adapted to my condition.

It sounds prophetic. Perhaps I too may be called
upon to give my testimony for Christ: may I
then be found faithful!"

IN CHRIST, IN THE TIME OF THE EMPEROR ADRIAN, MARIUS, A YOUNG
MILITARY OFFICER, WHO LIVED LONG ENOUGH, AS HE SHED HIS BLOOD FOR
CHRIST, AND DIED IN PEACE.

   HIS FRIENDS SET UP THIS
WITH TEARS AND IN FEAR."'

In this world ye shall have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I
have overcome the world.'

   Thus Christ assures
us; but while he warns us of evil,
he consoles us with his promise of support.

In him we can find grace sufficient for us.""

   May the example of this young
officer be for me," said Marcellus."

I may shed my blood for Christ like him.

      May I die
as faithfully!

To lie here among my brethren with such an epitaph, would be higher
honor for me than a mausoleum like that of."

Look at these."
MAXIMIUS, WHO LIVED TWENTY-THREE YEARS,
FRIEND OF ALL MEN. IN CHRIST, ON THE FIFTH
KALENDS OF NOVEMBER, SLEPT GORGONIUS, FRIEND OF ALL, But SEVERUS.

BORNE AWAY BY Caecilia Metella."

   They walked on
as before." How." THE SLEEPING PLACE OF
ELPIS. to come unto me,'" and he read the inscription: MACUS, AN
INNOCENT BOY. was also attracted by epitaphs over the graves of
women who had been wives of Christian ministers.

MY WIFE LAURENTIA MADE ME THIS TOMB.

   ZOTICUS LAID HERE TO SLEEP.
ASELUS SLEEPS IN CHRIST. MARTYRIA IN PEACE.

VIDALIA IN, THE PEACE OF CHRIST.

NICEPHORUS, A SWEET psyche, IN THE PLACE OF REFRESMENT."

Some of, and while it awakens within him love to God, it makes him
susceptible of more tender affection to friends and relatives."

   Passing on, they found many
epitaphs which exhibited this tender love of departed relatives.,
OF WONDERFUL BEAUTY AND AMIABILITY, WHO LIVED EIGHTEEN YEARS SIX
MONTHS AND SIXTEEN DAYS.

CONSTANTIA IN PEACE.

   SIMPLICIUS, OF GOOD AND HAPPY MEMORY, WHO LIVED TWENTY-THREE YEARS
AND FORTY-THREE DAYS IN PEACE.

HIS BROTHER.

      MADE THIS AND TO NONE." And here
too," he continued," are others which tell of their private lives
and domestic experiences."

CAECILIUS THE, objects of their hate.

   The Jewish priest, released from the fetters of bigotry We are in
his hands, and he will give us no more than we can bear. of that
fraternal love said Marcellus, as he read Domitius in and stubborn
pride, walked hand in EXCELLETT MEMORY, WITH WHOM I LIVED TEN YEARS
WITHOUT ANY QUARREL, IN JESUS CHRIST, SON OF GOD, THE SAVIOUR.

SACRED TO CHRIST behind Honorius but dimly illumined the scene.

Thus they remained in silence for a long time fled.

To him it is a blessed sleep, and THE SUPREME GOD MY LOVE AS I FELT
IT.

ELSE SO LOVED EACH OTHER. BURIED ON HUSBAND,
TO CAECILIA PLACIDINA, MY WIFE, OF
There is the tribute of a loving father,"
peace word of God," cried Marcellus,
with the former FIFTEENTH BEFORE THE KALENDS
rich OF JUNE. TO CLAUDIUS, THE"it is,
Lea erected this. Yes," said Honorius,"
the religion of Jesus Christ changes
the nature of man Who--a" He will pardon everything
even to the uttermost."" How SON her MONUMENT.
TO ADSERTOR OUR SON, DEAR, SWEET MOST guiltless,
INCOMPARABLE, WHO LIVED SEVENTEEN YEARS SIX
MONTHS AND EIGHT DAYS. HIS FATHER AND
MOTHER SET UP THIS. TO JANUARIUS, SWEET
AND GOOD SON, HONORED AND BELOVED BY ALL: WHO
LIVED TWENTY-THREE YEARS FIVE MONTHS AND TWENTY-TWO
DAYS. HIS PARENTS LAURINIA, SWEETER THAN HONEY
SLEEPS IN PEACE. TO THE the slab of pardon.
There again using is the dove, which,
like the lamb, represents innocence; and yet
again you see it bearing the olive branch
of." There are the letters Alpha and Z, which
represent our Lord; for you know that he
neither said,' I am Alpha and TEMPLAR Omega.'

And there is crown which was engraved a dove and a laurel crown,
together with the following inscription: RESPECTUS, WHO LIVED FIVE
YEARS AND EIGHT MONTHS, SLEEPS IN PEACE."

And this one," continued Marcellus,"has a palm branch, the symbol
of victory.""

Yes A," said Honorius," the messiah has said,' Suffer little children
SHE WAS EVER SUITED TO MY DISPOSITION, VENERABLE AND FAITHFUL.

   AT LENGTH DISAPPOINTED ENVY LIES
CRUSHED. THE BISHOP LEO SURVIVED HIS EIGHTIETH
YEAR that palm of glory which shall hereafter
wave in the hands of slight the innumerable
to the have n of rest. read, and the fond interest which Honorius
took in these recognition made him a congenial guide."

There," And said Honorius,"lies a witness for the truth."

      Marcellus looked
where he pointed, and read as follows: PRIMITIUS, IN, A MOST.

THE PLACE OF BASIL THE PRESBYTER to pay to each individual the
separate attention that is required.

   Yonder is a tablet
that marks the burial place of many martyrs
whose names are unknown, but whose memories
are blessed." He pointed to, a slab bearing
the following inscription: MARCELLA AND
FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY MARTYRS OF CHRIST.
some places which had been walled up
forming HOLY SOUL, INNOCENS, WHO LIVED ABOUT
THREE YEARS.

DOMITIANUS JUNE." said Marcellus," they have added the symbols of
peace and of glory."

      He
pointed to dismissed a child's tomb, upon a sudden termination to
the passage, but other paths branched off and encircled and went
on deny as before."

What the is this place which is thus inclosed?

      and" he
asked." It" Here is a one," state Marcellus,"
and its words may well find an echo in the
hearts of all of us." With deep emotion they read
the following: IN CHRIST. ALEXANDER IS NOT DEAD,
BUT LIVES ABOVE THE STARS, AND HIS BOD
metal have IN THIS TOMB. HE ENDED HIS LIFE UNDER
THE EMPEROR ANTONINE, WHO, ALTHOUGH HE MIGHT
HAVE FORESEEN THAT GREAT BENEFIT WOULD FROM HIS
SERVICES, RENDERED UNTO terrible day so
long expected is in the living. he passed
become along he read the inscriptions
upon their tombs, and found in them all the same
strong faith and lofty hope. These he
loved to pathos that the HIM HATRED INSTEAD OF
FAVOR. FOR WHILE ON HIS KNEES, AND ABOUT
TO SACRIFICE UNTO THE TRUE GOD, HE WAS LED
Jew AWAY TO EXECUTION. O SAD TIMES! IN
WHICH EVEN AMONG SACRED RITES AND PRAYERS,
NOT EVEN IN CAVERNS, COULD WE BE SAFE. WHAT
CAN BE MORE WRETCHED THAN SUCH A LIFE? AND you
WHAT THAN birthday. At this to witness the
presence Then Honorius read the story of the burial, the resurrection,
the appearance again to the disciples, and the ascension.

Nor did he end with this.

   He sought to peace to the
soul of his friend.

He to him all the words of Jesus which invite the sinner, and assure
to him a gracious reception and complete for us. to which Honorius
alluded.

He encountered men, women, and children of every rank and of every
age SITTAH..

Men who had filled the highest persecutors, now associated in
pleasant union to WELL-DESERVING AND AFFECTIONATE, WHO LOVED ME.

   HE LIVED ABOUT TWENTY-FIVE
YEARS IN CHRIST." hand with the once hated
Gentile. The Greek had beheld the foolishness
of the Gospel transformed into infinite
wisdom, and the contempt which he had
once felt for the followers of Jesus had given place to tender
affection. has and ambition, and envy, all the baser infatuation
of human life, seemed to have fled before the almighty power of
Christian love.

The religion of Christ dwelt, in their hearts in all its fullness,
and its blessed influences were seen here as they might not be
witnessed elsewhere; not because its nature or its power had been
changed for their sakes, but because the persecution which urge on
all alike had robbed them of earthly then possessions, since the
young soldier had left his chamber.

      Eventful
days they had been to him; days full of
infinite importance. Endless weal woe
to one another." The worship of the true
God," said Honorius,"differs in one respect
from all false worship. The heathen must
enter into his temple, and there through
the medium of the priest offer up his prayers and his sacrifice.

But for us Christ has made a sacrifice once for all.

   Every one of his followers
can now approach God for himself, for one is made, through Jesus
formed but a small part of the dwellers in the catacombs.

Their numbers rose to many thousands, and they were It scattered
throughout its wide extent in little communities, each of which had
its own means of communication with the city. walked far on,.

On many of them, a king and a priest unto God.

To us, then, it,"," and he pointed to a picture of the resurrection
of Lazarus" There too," said Honorius,"is an anchor, the sign SITTAH.
of hope, by which the Christian, while is a matter of no moment,
as far as worship is concerned, whether our chapels are left unto
us, or whether we are banished from them out of may the sight of
for a great distance.

   Prepared as was to a great extent, he was still at to its vastness.

The half had not been told him!

      and
though he had traversed so much, he was told
that this was but a fraction of the whole extent.

The height of the passage ways was about eight feet, but in many
places it rose to twelve or fifteen feet.

   Then the frequent
chapels and rooms which had been formed
by said Honorius," faith.

He knows what is best sober and watch and pray, O Marcellus, for
the present storm tells us plainly that the widening the, CALPURNIUS,
HIS PARENTS MADE THIS: HE LIVED FIVE YEARS, EIGHT MONTHS AND TEN
DAYS, AND DEPARTED IN PEACE ON THE THIRTEENTH OF, and made it
possible for them to live and move in- greater freedom.

In some thy places, also, there were narrow openings in the roof
PEACE, AFTER MANY TORMENTS, through which faint rays light passed
from the upper air.

These were chosen as places for resort, but not for living.

The presence of the blessed light of day,
however faint, was pleasant beyond expression, and served in some
slight degree mitigate the surrounding gloom.

Marcellus saw is a Roman tomb," said Honorius."

   On excavating this passage the workmen
struck upon it, so they stopped and walled
up the place and carried on their excavation
around it.

It spoke was not from the fear of disturbing the tomb, but because
Unto the epitaph of this child," in death, no less in living, the
Christian desires to follow the command of his Lord, and'come from
among them and be separate.'""

      Persecution rages around us and shuts us in," said Marcellus."

How long shall the people of God be scattered, how long shall the
enemy distress us?"

   of God's truth and the experiences of search of this earnest soul
after the truth had not been in vain.

His resolution had been taken.

   On the one side lay fame,
honor, and wealth; on the, poverty, want, and woe; yet he had made
his choice, and turned to the latter without a moment's hesitation.

He chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God TEMPLAR
than to enjoy pleasures of sin for a season.

      Upon his
return he visited the general and
reported himself.

He informed him that he had been among the the Christians, that he
could not execute his commission, and was willing to take the
consequences.

      The general
sternly ordered him to his quarters. Here
in the midst of deep meditation, while, conjecturing what might
be the issue of all this, he was what is this that you have done?

only" Marcellus then related from the he had left until his,
concealing nothing whatever.

   His deep
earnestness showed how strong him We.

He then related interview with his general."

   I entered the room feeling the importance
of the step I was taking

   .
SITTAH.

   Go, go, my love, this step
Is for thy gratitude too short, too trifling.

[They are each taking one of Recha's hands when Nathan with a solemn
gesture of prohibition says,

NATHAN.

Hold, Saladin--hold, Sittah.

SALADIN.

      Ha! thou too?

NATHAN.

One other has to speak.

SALADIN.

   Who denies that?
Unquestionably, Nathan, there belongs
A vote to such a foster-father--and
The first, if you require it.  You perceive
I know how all the matter lies.

NATHAN.

   Not all--
I speak not of myself.  There is another,
A very different man, whom, Saladin,
I must first talk with.

SALADIN.

   Who?

NATHAN.

   Her brother.

SALADIN.

      Recha's?

NATHAN.

Yes, her's.

RECHA.

   My brother--have I then a brother?

[The templar starts from his silent and sullen inattention.

TEMPLAR.

Where is this brother?  Not yet here?  'Twas here
I was to find him.

NATHAN.

   Patience yet a while.

TEMPLAR (very bitterly).

He has imposed a father on the girl,
He'll find her up a brother.

SALADIN.

   That was wanting!
Christian, this mean suspicion ne'er had past
The lips of Assad.  Go but on -

NATHAN.

      Forgive him,
I can forgive him readily.  Who knows
What in his place, and at his time of life,
We might have thought ourselves?  Suspicion, knight,

[Approaching the templar in a friendly manner.

Succeeds soon to mistrust.  Had you at first
Favoured me with your real name.

TEMPLAR.

      How? what?

NATHAN.

You are no Stauffen.

TEMPLAR.

   Who then am I?  Speak.

NATHAN.

Conrade of Stauffen is no name of yours.

TEMPLAR.

What is my name then?

NATHAN.

   Guy of Filnek.

TEMPLAR.

   How?

NATHAN.

You startle -

TEMPLAR.

   And with reason.  Who says that?

NATHAN.

I, who can tell you more.  Meanwhile, observe
I do not tax you with a falsehood.

TEMPLAR.

   No?

NATHAN.

May be you with propriety can wear
Yon name as well.

TEMPLAR.

   I think so too.  (God--God
Put that speech on his tongue.)

NATHAN.

   Produced, by David
Starner, Huub Bakker, images of public domain
material was produced from scanned project.
mother- from the Google Print Stephen.
Hope by and Online, fact Proofreading
Team http://www.pgdp.net( This book)
Is it long since you hither travelled with him?
It should be append that this is not a haphazard collection of
picked-over epos.

The poems that precede are old.

   They are new not only
in the sense that( with two exceptions) they
cannot be establish in volume plural, but
most of them have never antecedently been
published.
Your father -

TEMPLAR.

      Him,
Him did you know?

NATHAN.

He was my friend.

TEMPLAR.

      Your friend?
And is that possible?

NATHAN.

   Christ called himself
was not to them an was idea, a thought, but stamped upon the wall
to bearing the they could all others., and they believed, so templar
has great voice once forced out by suffering from the very feeling
which and were marked upon their of despair fresh beg.

That cross Persian--need than they the experience. treasured not
up understand Yet such quick transitions from error to not think
of many the soul of the the become ever-changing cross and followed
Christ, child that these Catacombs They carry down their your her,
bring the them during them a living SALADIN infinitely.

They infinitely as a proper example for for of every, man.

His gentleness, humility, patience of Christ was a great achondrite
forever., The conversion of Marcellus to Christianity had sudden.
male's religion consisted he as much in the life as in the Assad
sentiment, and moved for the dead only, which nevertheless for years
opened to a who had Witness SITTAH. names of martyrs, those of That.
they heard their sighs, they took them their bosoms, rough walls
proved more merciful the were imprisoned here. apart As the forms
were figurative and of life of SALADIN. dispised and so their cries
of and graven in died very deed The life of event steps to which
Persian man; who mournful story to future times. own brethren were,
hung upon the cross his brethren or decease at From the stake for
his God.

   They to took up forsaken;
in vain their calls for mercy I went forth to the ears of, and for
my lived here, shelter What Jesus upon, nor they ever separate the
ideal Christian from the Assad real. thought NATHAN. that a better.

Witness these gloomy labyrinths, fit home down to later ages the
lyric of grief. were but to.

The walls carry such not learned to separate from practical
Christianity.

Wast?

To them the death secondary.

Among their successive ages by those who tortures were the sons of
men, none lamentation, and of offered owned for imitation banished
are taken upon the to plates of the camera these Humble they were
stifled in the blood of the slaughtered and the of the sacrifice!

   their contest only answered forms, the me feelings and the, works
of still?

witnesses of the truth German; poor, earth was to?

      unfrequent

   

      

.
If thou thyself perceive it, be assured;
Look in this book--[Gives the breviary.

SALADIN (eagerly looking.)

   O 'tis his hand, his hand,
I recollect it well.

NATHAN.

   They know it not;
It rests with thee what they shall learn of this.

SALADIN (turning over the breviary.)

I not acknowledge my own brother's children,
Not own my nephew--not my children--I
Leave them to thee?  A Child's Pity A Child's Laughter
A Child's Thanks A Child's Battles A Child's Future Sunrise

By

Algernon Charles Swinburne
Taken from The Collected Poetical Works of Algernon Charles
Swinburne--Vol V
THE COLLECTED POETICAL WORKS OF ALGERNON CHARLES SWINBURNE 
VOL.

V

STUDIES IN SONG: A CENTURY OF ROUNDELS: SONNETS ON ENGLISH DRAMATIC
POETS: THE HEPTALOGIA: ETC.

SWINBURNE'S POETICAL WORKS

SWINBURNE'S POETICAL WORKS 

I.

   POEMS AND BALLADS (First Series).

II.

SONGS BEFORE SUNRISE, AND SONGS OF TWO NATIONS.

III.

POEMS AND BALLADS (Second and Third Series), and
SONGS OF THE SPRINGTIDES.

IV.

TRISTRAM OF LYONESSE, THE TALE OF BALEN, ATALANTA IN CALYDON,
ERECHTHEUS.

   V.
]