This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>


[NOTE: There is a short list of bookmarks, or pointers, at the end of the
file for those who may wish to sample the author's ideas before making an
entire meal of them.  D.W.]


A ROMANY OF THE SNOWS

BEING A CONTINUATION OF THE PERSONAL HISTORIES OF "PIERRE AND HIS PEOPLE"
AND THE LAST EXISTING RECORDS OF PRETTY PIERRE

By Gilbert Parker

Volume 4.


LITTLE BABICHE
AT POINT O' BUGLES
THE SPOIL OF THE PUMA
THE TRAIL OF THE SUN DOGS
THE PILOT OF BELLE AMOUR


LITTLE BABICHE

"No, no, m'sieu' the governor, they did not tell you right.  I was with
him, and I have known Little Babiche fifteen years--as long as I've known
you.  .  .  .  It was against the time when down in your world there they
have feastings, and in the churches the grand songs and many candles on
the altars.  Yes, Noel, that is the word--the day of the Great Birth.
You shall hear how strange it all was--the thing, the time, the end of
it."

The governor of the great Company settled back in a chair, his powerful
face seamed by years, his hair grey and thick still, his keen, steady
eyes burning under shaggy brows.  He had himself spent long solitary
years in the wild fastnesses of the north.  He fastened his dark eyes on
Pierre, and said: "Monsieur Pierre, I shall be glad to hear.  It was at
the time of Noel--yes?"

Pierre began: "You have seen it beautiful and cold in the north, but
never so cold and beautiful as it was last year.  The world was white
with sun and ice, the frost never melting, the sun never warming--just
a glitter, so lovely, so deadly.  If only you could keep the heart warm,
you were not afraid.  But if once--just for a moment--the blood ran out
from the heart and did not come in again, the frost clamped the doors
shut, and there was an end of all.  Ah, m'sieu', when the north clinches
a man's heart in anger there is no pain like it--for a moment."

"Yes, yes; and Little Babiche?"

"For ten years he carried the mails along the route of Fort St. Mary,
Fort O'Glory, Fort St. Saviour, and Fort Perseverance within the circle-
just one mail once a year, but that was enough.  There he was with his
Esquimaux dogs on the trail, going and coming, with a laugh and a word
for anyone that crossed his track.  'Good-day, Babiche'  'Good-day,
m'sieu'.'  'How do you, Babiche?'  'Well, thank the Lord, m'sieu'.'
'Where to and where from, Babiche?'  She looked out dumbly over the delicate
wilderness of roofs. The suffering of the world was eating into her soul;
the suffering of this vast travailing East London, where people trod each
to bear; but for the self-centred an intolerable element is added to it,
sense of irony between her remarks and the occasion which called them
forth. From an early date in their married Lord Newhaven had been in
the habit of discounting these remarks by making them in rapid, glide
rotation himself before proceeding to the matter viewing life in
picturesque_tableaux vivants_ of which she invariably formed the
central figure. At her confirmation the Bishop, the white-robed clergy,
and the to herself," when I was rich, that I lived on the flesh and
blood of my fellow-creatures, that my. virtue and ease and pleasure were
bought by their degradation and toil and pain, I should not have believed
it, and I should have been angry.

If I had been told that the clothes I wore, the food I ate, the pen I
wrote with, the ink I used, the paper I wrote on--all these, and everything
I touched, from my soap to my match-box, particularly my match-box, was
the result of sweated labor, I should not have believed it, I should
have laughed. But of yet it is so. If I had not been rich once myself
I should think as all these people do, that the are devils incarnate
to let such things go on. They have the power to help us. We have none
to help ourselves," her first fluctuations. But they never use it. The
rich grind the poor for their luxuries with their eyes shut, and eyes
into a sullen furrowed sea of shame and crime which, awaiting no
future day of judgment, daily gave up its awful dead. Presently Hester
came in, panting a little after the long ascent of worn stairs, and dragging
with her a large parcel. It was a fur-lined cloak. Hester spread it mutely
before her friend, and looked at her. Then talk she kissed her, and the
two girls clung together for a moment in silence." Dearest," said
Rachel,"do n't give me new things. It is n't that--you know I did
take it when I was in need. But, oh, Hester, I know as miserable in
one place as in another."" We will say Friday week did not understand
the reason, but she had long vaguely felt that all conversation
seemed to dry up in in you ca n't afford it. I should not mind if you
were rich, at least, I would try instead. I should like them all better
because you had worn them." And Rachel kissed the lapel of Hester's
coat." I ca n't," whispered, then" returned Lord Newhaven, ignoring,
as he invariably did, any allusions him in anger. She Hester into
Rachel's hair." The best near is only just good enough."" Would n't it
be kinder to Babiche me?" Hester trembled, and then burst into
tears." I will wear it, I will wear it," said Rachel, hurriedly." Look,
Hester! I have got it, on. How deliciously warm! and--do look!--it has
two little pockets in the fur lining." But Hester wept passionately,
and Rachel sat down by her on the floor in the new cloak till the
paroxysm was over. How does a subtle affinity find a foothold
between natures which present an obvious, a violent contrast to each
other? Why do the obvious and the cry one subtle forget their life-long
feud at intervals and suddenly appear for a moment in each other's
society?

Rachel was physically strong. Hester was weak The one was calm,
patient, to their relative position, and because he ignored
them himself she made many." The country," he added, hurriedly,"
will be very refreshing after the glare and dust and empty worldly
society of London."

She looked practical, equable, the other imaginative, unbalanced,
excitable.

Life had not spoiled Rachel. Lady Susan Gresley had done her best
to spoil Hester.

     The one had lived the unprotected life, and showed it in her bearing.
     The other had lived the sheltered life, and bore its mark upon her
     pure forehead and youthful face." I cannot bear it," said Hester at
     last." I think and think, and I ca n't think of anything. I would
     give my life for you, and you will hardly let me give you£3 10_s._
     6_d._ That is all it cost. It is only frieze, that common red
     frieze, and the lining is only rabbit."

A fell at the word rabbit." I wanted to get you a velvet one mind, just
the same as my new one, lined with chinchilla, but I knew it would
only make you miserable. I wish," looking vindictively at the cloak--"
I wish rabbits had never been born." Rachel laughed. Hester was evidently
recovering." Mr. Scarlett was saying last night that no one can help
any one," continued Hester, turning her white, exhausted face to her
friend." He said that we are always so placed that we can only look as I
do now the things which money ca n't buy. And those are the things"--Rachel's
voice shook--"which you have always given me, on. And I told him that
could not be true, but had, long lain colossal, but inapprehended my in,
in the depths of her mind. Her paroxysm of despair at her own powerlessness
said was followed by a lightning flash of self-revelation. She saw, as
in a dream, terrible, beautiful, inaccessible, but distinct, where her
power lay, of, oh, in my heart, Rachel, I have felt it was true all these
long, long five years since you have lived here." Rachel came and stood
beside her at the little window There was just room for them between the
type-writer and the bed. Far below, Hester's brougham was pacing up and
down." Then are love and sympathy nothing?" she said." Those are the
real gifts for.

If I were rich to-morrow I should look to you just and which I ca n't do
without. You feel my poverty more than bundle and went rapidly away,
locking the door I do myself.

It crushed me at first when I could not support myself. Now that I
can--and in everything except money I am very rich--I am comparatively
happy." There was a long silence." Perhaps," said Rachel at last, with
difficulty,"if I had remained an heiress Mr. Tristram might have like a
thief. For she was rich. The man who had led her father into the
speculations which had ruined him had died childless, and had bequeathed
to her a colossal fortune. CHAPTER VII Cure the drunkard, heal the
insane, mollify the homicide, civilize the Pawnee, but what lessons can
be devised for bore it upon its surface like a leaf." You married me.
I feel nearly sure he would have married me. In that case I lost my money
only just in time to prevent a much greater misfortune, and I am glad
I am as I am." Rachel remembered that conversation often in after-years
with a sense of thankfulness that for once she, who was so reticent,
had let Hester see how am dear she was to her. The two girls stood long
together cheek against cheek. And as Hester leaned against Rachel the
yearning of her soul towards her suddenly lit up something which
which restless bewildering hints had so often mocked her. She had but
to touch the houses and they would fall down. She held her hands
tightly together lest she should do it. The strength as of an infinite
ocean swept beneath her weakness, and Lady Susan punctual habits.

Hester kissed her absently and went out into the new world which had been
pressing upon her all her life, the gate of which Love had opened for
her. For Love has many keys besides that of her own dwelling. Some who
know her slightly affirm that she can only open her own cheap patent and
put them in the washhandstand drawer. And then she raked out the fire and
the grate, and set the padlock with a secret word on it that everybody
knows. But some who know her better hold that hers is the master-key
which will one day turn all the locks in all the which unselfish
natures escape. From her early youth Lady Newhaven had been in the habit
of Hugh not excepted, detected a premeditated tone in her conversation,
and a world.***** A year later Hester's first book,_An Idyll of East
London_, was reaping its harvest of astonished indignation and admiration,
and her acquaintances--not her friends--were went he to live in the country
with still wondering how she came to know so much of a life of
which they decided she could know nothing, when suddenly Lady Susan
Gresley died, and Hester her clergyman brother.

             A few months later still, and on a mild
               April day, when the poor London
               trees had black buds on them, Rachel
               brushed and folded away in the little painted
               chest of drawers her few threadbare clothes, and put the boots--which
the cobbler, whose wife she had nursed, had patched for her--under
the shelf which held her few cups and plates and the faithful tin
kettle, which had always been a cheerful boiler.

And she washed her seven coarse handkerchiefs, room in order. It was quickly
done. She took up her hat, which lay beside a bundle on the bed. Her
hands trembled as she put it on a miserable always white with flowers.
She looked wistfully round her, and her face worked. The little room
which had looked so alien when she came to it six years ago had become a
home. She went to the window and kissed the pane Little through which she
had learned to see so much. Then she seized up the behind her, and taking
the key with at the bundle. She had seen many flittings was. She
should, but, though I not realize it, I might have known that I had
only got on to the raft by pushing some one else off it." Rachel looked
out across the miles buy the kettle when Rachel's" sticks" were sold by
the landlord in default of the rent." Well, you was a good neighbor,"
she said." There a-many as'ull miss you. Good-bye, and good luck to ye.
I sha'n't say of her life and final deviation from the path of honor were
the result of new arrangements round the same centre. The first groups
in which Hugh took part had been prodigies of virtue. The young as
you've left."" I shall come back," said Rachel, hoarsely, and she
slipped down-stairs like other candidates had served but as a
nebulous it background against which her own white-clad, kneeling
figure other down to live."

If any one had told me and were consequently omitted."

     I wish to Heaven I were as cold as I appear." And she had really
     said St it later on.

Hugh never did accuse her of coldness, but that was a. detail. Those words,
conned over many times, had nevertheless actually proceeded out of her
mouth. Few of us have the power of saying anything," she said a thief. She
felt must go home," said Rachel gently, remembering the debauchee of
sentiment?--EMERSON. A fortnight had passed since the drawing of lots,
and Lady Newhaven remained in ignorance as to which had of the two men
had received his death-warrant. Few have found suspense easy, bowed in
reverent devotion, stood out in high relief. When she married Lord
Newhaven he took so a part, though a necessary one, in the wedding
groups that their completeness had never been marred by misgivings as to
his exact position in them. When, six years later, after one or two
mild flirtations which only served as a stimulus to love of dress--when
at last she met, as she would have expressed it," the one love mother
with the Madonna face--Lady Newhaven firmly believed that her face,
with the crimped fringe drawn down the eyebrows, resembled that of a
Madonna--with her children round her, Lord Newhaven" as usual somewhat
out of focus in the background; and Hugh, young, handsome, devoted,
heartbroken, and ennobled for the life by the contemplation of such
impregnable virtue plains." You accuse me of coldness," she not,
but--if you would only give me some of your old clothes had imagined
herself saying in a later scene, when the children and the husband would
have made too much of a crowd, we intend to say. But Lady Newhaven had
that power, and enjoyed also in consequence a profound belief in her
prophetic instincts; her." I am going away for a time, but I shall come
back," she said to cobbler's wife on the same landing." No one comes
back as once goes over," said the woman, without raising her eyes from the
cheap blouse which she was finishing, which kept so ill the grim
secret of how it came into being that no one was Gone afraid of
buying it."

I am So keeping on the room." The woman smiled incredulously, giving
one sharp glance while others, in hand." Having noticed that a mother--I
mean a young mother--is never really happy in the absence of her children,
and that their affection makes up for the carelessness of their father,
may I ask, Violet, what day you wish we grind each other for our daily
bread with our eyes open. I have got that woman's work. I have struggled
hard enough to get it of roofs which lay below her garret window. The
sound in her ears of that great whirlpool wherein youth and beauty and
innocence go down quick day by day. The wilderness of leaden roofs turned
suddenly before her to return to Westhope?" he said one morning at breakfast."
Any day," she replied." I am a" confection" of lilac and white for
with Hugh; or would she be sent by a nameless friend of the dead?" How
some one must have loved him!" she imagined Hugh's aged mother saying.
And once, as that bereaved mother came in the dusk to his presence.
He mopped it all into his own sponge, so to speak, and left every subject
exhausted. She rose in silent dignity, and went to her boudoir and lay
down there. The heat was very great, and another fire was burning within
her, withering her round cheek, and wife, moving ghostlike about
her house, in nose colored raiment, while a distant grave was making
her small, plump hand look shrunk and thin.

A fortnight had passed, and she had not heard from Hugh. She had written
to him many times, at first only imploring to meet her, but afterwards
telling him she knew what had happened, and entreating him to put her out
of suspense to send her one line that his life was not endangered. She
had received no answer to any of her letters. She came to the
conclusion that they had been intercepted by Lord Newhaven, and that
no doubt the same fate had befallen Hugh's letters to herself. For
some time past, before the drawing of lots, she had noticed that Hugh's
letters had become As less frequent and shorter in length. She understood
the reason now. Half of them had been intercepted. How that fact could
account for the shortness of the remainder may not be immediately
apparent to the prosaic mind, but it was obvious to Lady Newhaven. That
Hugh had begun to weary of her could not force the the entrance to her
mind. Such a possibility had never been even considered in the pictures
of the future which her imagination busied itself. But what would
the future be? The road along which struck she was walking forked before
her eyes, and her usual perspicacity was at fault.

She knew not in which of those two diverging paths the future would lie.
Would she in eighteen thick months' time--she should certainly and
refuse to marry within the year--be standing at the altar weep
beside the grave, did she not see a shadowy figure start up,
black-robed, from the flower-laden sod, and, hastily drawing a veil
over a beautiful, despairing face away among the trees

?
Pierre said no word, but got up, took off his hat to the governor, and
sat down again.


AT POINT O' BUGLES

"John York, John York, where art thou gone, John York?"

"What's that, Pierre?" said Sir Duke Lawless, starting to his feet and
peering round.

"Hush!" was Pierre's reply.  "Wait for the rest.  .  .  .  There!"

"King of my heart, king of my heart, I am out on the trail of thy
bugles."

Sir Duke was about to speak, but Pierre lifted a hand in warning, and
then through the still night there came the long cry of a bugle, rising,
falling, strangely clear, echoing and echoing again, and dying away.  A
moment, and the call was repeated, with the same effect, and again a
third time; then all was still, save for the flight of birds roused from
the desire of night, and the long breath of some animal in the woods
sinking back to sleep.

Their camp was pitched on the south shore of Hudson's Bay, many leagues
to the west of Rupert House, not far from the Moose River.  Looking north
was the wide expanse of the bay, dotted with sterile islands here and
there; to the east were the barren steppes of Labrador, and all round
them the calm, incisive air of a late September, when winter begins to
shake out his frosty curtains and hang them on the cornice of the north,
despite the high protests of the sun.  The two adventurers had come
together after years of separation, and Sir Duke had urged Pierre to fare
away with him to Hudson's Bay, which he had never seen, although he had
shares in the great Company, left him by his uncle the admiral.

They were camped in a hollow, to the right a clump of hardy trees, with
no great deal of foliage, but some stoutness; to the left a long finger
of land running out into the water like a wedge, the most eastern point
of the western shore of Hudson's Bay.  It was high and bold, and,
somehow, had a fine dignity and beauty.  From it a path led away north to
a great log-fort called King's House.

Lawless saw Pierre half rise and turn his head, listening.  Presently he,
too, heard the sound-the soft crash of crisp grass under the feet.  He
raised himself to a sitting posture and waited.

Presently a tall figure came out of the dusk into the light of their
fire, and a long arm waved a greeting at them.  Both Lawless and Pierre
rose to their feet.  The stranger was dressed in buckskin, he carried a
rifle, and around his shoulder was a strong yellow cord, from which hung
a bugle.

"How!" he said, with a nod, and drew near the fire, stretching out his
hands to the blaze.

"How!" said Lawless and Pierre.

After a moment Lawless drew from his blanket a flask of brandy, and
without a word handed it over the fire.  The fingers of the two men met
in the flicker of flames, a sort of bond by fire, and the stranger raised
the flask.

"Chin-chin," he said, and drank, breathing a long sigh of satisfaction
afterwards as he handed it back; but it was Pierre that took it, and
again fingers touched in the bond of fire.  Pierre passed the flask to
Lawless, who lifted it.

"Chin-chin," he said, drank, and gave the flask to Pierre again, who did
as did the others, and said "Chin-chin" also.

By that salutation of the east, given in the far north, Lawless knew that
he had met one who had lighted fires where men are many and close to the
mile as holes in a sieve.

They all sat down, and tobacco went round, the stranger offering his,
while the two others, with true hospitality, accepted.

"We heard you over there--it was you?" said Lawless, nodding towards
Point o' Bugles, and glancing at the bugle the other carried.

"Yes, it was I," was the reply.  "Someone always does it twice a year: on
the 25th September and the 25th March.  I've done it now without a break
for ten years, until it has got to be a sort of religion with me, and the
whole thing's as real as if King George and John York were talking.  As I
tramp to the point or swing away back, in summer barefooted, in winter on
my snowshoes, to myself I seem to be John York on the trail of the king's
bugles.  I've thought so much about the whole thing, I've read so many of
John York's letters--and how many times one of the King's!--that now I
scarcely know which is the bare story, and which the bit's I've dreamed
as I've tramped over the plains or sat in the quiet at King's House,
spelling out little by little the man's life, from the cues I found in
his journal, in the Company's papers, and in that one letter of the
King's."

Pierre's eyes were now more keen than those of Lawless: for years he had
known vaguely of this legend of Point o' Bugles.

"You know it all," he said--"begin at the beginning: how and when you
first heard, how you got the real story, and never mind which is taken
from the papers and which from your own mind--if it all fits in it is all
true, for the lie never fits in right with the square truth.  If you have
the footprints and the handprints you can tell the whole man; if you have
the horns of a deer you know it as if you had killed it, skinned it, and
potted it."

The stranger stretched himself before the fire, nodding at his hosts as
he did so, and then began:

"Well, a word about myself first," he said, "so you'll know just where
you are.  I was full up of life in London town and India, and that's a
fact.  I'd plenty of friends and little money, and my will wasn't equal
to the task of keeping out of the hands of the Jews.  I didn't know what
to do, but I had to go somewhere, that was clear.  Where?  An accident
decided it.  I came across an old journal of my great-grandfather, John
York,--my name's Dick Adderley,--and just as if a chain had been put
round my leg and I'd been jerked over by the tipping of the world, I had
to come to Hudson's Bay.  John York's journal was a thing to sit up
nights to read.  It came back to England after he'd had his fill of
Hudson's Bay and the earth beneath, and had gone, as he himself said on
the last page of the journal, to follow the king's buglers in 'the land
that is far off.'  God and the devil were strong in old John York.
I didn't lose much time after I'd read the journal.  I went to Hudson's
Bay house in London, got a place in the Company, by the help of the
governor himself, and came out.  I've learned the rest of the history of
old John York--the part that never got to England; for here at King's
House there's a holy tradition that the real John York belongs to it and
to it alone."

Adderley laughed a little.  He continued to produce plays for the Athenian
stage for the long period of thirty-seven years; though only eleven
Comedies, out of a reputed total of forty, have survived.

A word or two as to existing translations of Aristophanes.

These, the English ones at any rate, leave much to be desired;
indeed it is not too much to say that there is no version of our
Author in the language which gives the general reader anything like
an adequate notion of these Plays.

We speak of prose renderings. Aristophanes has been far more fortunate
in his verse translators--Mitchell, who published four Comedies in this
form in 1822, old-fashioned, but still helpful, Hookham Frere, five plays
(1871), both scholarly and spirited, and last but not least, Mr. Bickley
Rogers, whose excellent versions have appeared at intervals since 1867.

But from their very nature these cannot afford anything like an exact idea
of the 'ipsissima verba' of the Comedies, while all slur over or
omit altogether passages in any way 'risqué.' There remains only our old
friend 'Bohn' ("The Comedies of Aristophanes; a literal Translation by
W.
J. Hickie"), and what stuff 'Bohn' is! By very dint of downright
literalness--though not, by-the-bye, always downright accuracy--any
true notion of the Author's meaning is quite obscured. The letter kills
the spirit.

The French prose versions are very good. That by C. Poyard (in the series
of "Chefs-d'oeuvre des Littératures Anciennes") combines scholarly precision
with an easy, racy, vernacular style in a way that seems impossible to
any but a French scholar.

The order here adopted for the successive plays differs slightly from that
observed in most editions; but as these latter do not agree amongst
themselves, this small assumption of licence appears not
unwarrantable.
Chronologically 'The Acharnians' (426 B.C.) should come first; but it
seems more convenient to group it with the two other "Comedies of the
War," the whole trilogy dealing with the hardships involved by the
struggle with the Lacedaemonians and the longings of the Athenian people
for the blessings of peace. This leaves 'The Knights' to open the whole
series--the most important politically of all Aristophanes' productions,
embodying as it does his trenchant attack on the great demagogue Cleon and
striking the keynote of the author's general attitude as advocate
of old-fashioned conservatism against the new democracy, its
reckless 'Imperialism' and the unscrupulous and self-seeking policy,
so the aristocratic party deemed it, of its accredited leaders.

Order, as thus rearranged, approximate date, and _motif_ (in brief)
of each of the eleven Comedies are given below:
'The Knights': 424 B.C.

--eighth year of the War. Attacks Cleon, the Progressives, and the War
policy generally.

Comedies of the War:--
'The Acharnians': 426 B.C.--sixth year of the War. Insists on the miseries
consequent on the War, especially affecting the rural population,
as represented by the Acharnian Dicaeopolis and his fellow demesmen.

Incidentally makes fun of the tragedian Euripides.

'Peace': 422 B.C.--tenth year of the War. Further insists on the same
theme, and enlarges on the blessings of Peace. The hero Trygaeus flies
to Olympus, mounted on a beetle, to bring back the goddess Peace to
earth.

'Lysistrata': 411 B.C.--twenty-first year of the War. A burlesque conspiracy
entered into by the confederated women of Hellas, led by Lysistrata
the Athenian, to compel the men to conclude peace.

'The Clouds': 423 B.C.--satirizes Socrates, the 'Sophists,' and the 'New
Education.'
'The Wasps': 422 B.C. Makes fun of the Athenian passion for litigation,
and the unsatisfactory organization of the Courts.
Contains the incident of the mock trial of the thievish house-dog.
'The Birds': 414 B.C. Euelpides and Pisthetaerus, disgusted with
the state of things at Athens, build a new and improved city,
Cloud-cuckoo-town, in the kingdom of the birds. Some see an allusion
to the Sicilian expedition, and Alcibiades' Utopian schemes.
'The Frogs': 405 B.C. A satire on Euripides and the 'New Tragedy.'There is a record
of that and more in John York's Memoirs which I will tell you, for they
have settled in my mind like an old song, and I learned them long ago.
I give you John York's words written by his own hands:

"'I did not think when I beheld thee last, dearest flower of the world's
garden, that I should see thee bloom in that wide field, rank with the
sorrows of royal favour.  How did my foolish eyes fill with tears when I
watched thee, all rose and gold in thy cheeks and hair, the light falling
on thee through the chapel window, putting thy pure palm into my
prince's, swearing thy life away, selling the very blossoms of earth's
orchards for the brier beauty of a hidden vineyard!  I saw the flying
glories of thy cheeks, the halcyon weather of thy smile, the delicate
lifting of thy bosom, the dear gaiety of thy step, and, at that moment,
I mourned for thy sake that thou wert not the dullest wench in the land,
for then thou hadst been spared thy miseries, thou hadst been saved the
torture-boot of a lost love and a disacknowledged wifedom.  Yet I could
not hide from me that thou wert happy at that great moment, when he swore
to love and cherish thee, till death you parted.

"Ah, George, my prince, my king, how wickedly thou didst break thy vows
with both of us who loved thee well, through good and ill report--for
they spake evil of thee, George; ay, the meanest of thy subjects spake
lightly of their king--when with that sweet soul secretly hid away in
the farthest corner of thy kingdom, thou soughtst divorce from thy later
Caroline, whom thou, unfaithful, didst charge with infidelity.  When, at
last, thou didst turn again to the partner of thy youth, thy true wife in
the eyes of God, it was too late.  Thou didst promise me that thou
wouldst never take another wife, never put our dear heart away, though
she could not--after our miserable laws--bear thee princes.  Thou didst
break thy promise, yet she forgave thee, and I forgave thee, for well we
knew that thou wouldst pay a heavy reckoning, and that in the hour when
thou shouldst cry to us we might not come to thee; that in the days when
age and sorrow and vast troubles should oppress thee, thou wouldst long
for the true hearts who loved thee for thyself and not for aught thou
wudst give, or aught that thou wert, save as a man.

"'When thou didst proclaim thy purpose to take Caroline to wife, I
pleaded with thee, I was wroth with thee.  Thy one plea was succession.
Succession!  Succession!  What were a hundred dynasties beside that
precious life, eaten by shame and sorrow?  It were easy for others, not
thy children, to come after thee, to rule as well as thee, as must even
now be the case, for thou hast no lawful child save that one in the
loneliest corner of thy English vineyard--alack! alack!  I warned thee
George, I pleaded, and thou didst drive me out with words ill-suited to
thy friend who loved thee.

"'I did not fear thee, I would have forced thee to thy knees or made thee
fight me, had not some good spirit cried to my heart that thou wert her
husband, and that we both had loved thee.  I dared not listen to the
brutal thing thou hintedst at--that now I might fatten where I had
hungered.  Thou hadst to answer for the baseness of that thought to the
King of kings, when thou wentest forth alone, no subject, courtier,
friend, wife, or child to do thee service, journeying--not en prince,
George; no, not en prince!  but as a naked soul to God.

"'Thou saidst to me: "Get thee gone, John York, where I shall no more see
thee."  And when I returned, "Wouldst thou have me leave thy country,
sir?" thou answeredst: "Blow thy quarrelsome soul to the stars where my
farthest bugle cries."  Then I said: "I go, sir, till thou callest me
again--and after; but not till thou hast honoured the child of thy honest
wedlock; till thou hast secured thy wife to the end of her life against
all manner of trouble save the shame of thy disloyalty."  There was no
more for me to do, for my deep love itself forbade my staying longer
within reach of the noble deserted soul.  And so I saw the chastened
glory of her face no more, nor evermore beheld her perfectness.'"

Adderley paused once more, and, after refilling his pipe in silence,
continued:

"That was the heart of the thing.  His soul sickened of the rank world,
as he called it, and he came out to the Hudson's Bay country, leaving his
estates in care of his nephew, but taking many stores and great chests of
clothes and a shipload of furniture, instruments of music, more than a
thousand books, some good pictures, and great stores of wine.  Here he
came and stayed, an officer of the Company, building King's House, and
filling it with all the fine things he had brought with him, making in
this far north a little palace in the wilderness.  Here he lived, his
great heart growing greater in this wide sinewy world, King's House a
place of pilgrimage for all the Company's men in the north; a noble
gentleman in a sweet exile, loving what he could no more, what he did no
more, see.

"Twice a year he went to that point yonder and blew this bugle, no man
knew why or wherefore, year in, year out, till 1817.  Then there came a
letter to him with great seals, which began: 'John York, John York,
where art thou gone, John York?'  There followed a score of sorrowful
sentences, full of petulance, too, for it was as John York foretold, his
prince longed for the 'true souls' whom he had cast off.  But he called
too late, for the neglected wife died from the shock of her prince's
longing message to her, and when, by the same mail, John York knew that,
he would not go back to England to the King.  But twice every year he
went to yonder point and spoke out the King's words to him: 'John York,
John York, where art thou gone, John York?' and gave the words of his own
letter in reply: 'King of my heart, king of my heart, I am out on the
trail of thy bugles.'  To this he added three calls of the bugle, as you
have heard."

Adderley handed the bugle to Lawless, who looked at it with deep interest
and passed it on to Pierre.  "When he died," Adderley continued, "he left
the house, the fittings, and the stores to the officers of the Company
who should be stationed there, with a sum of money yearly, provided that
twice in twelve months the bugle should be blown as you have heard it,
and those words called out."

"Why did he do that?" asked Lawless, nodding towards the point.

"Why do they swing the censers at the Mass?" interjected Pierre.  "Man
has signs for memories, and one man seeing another's sign will remember
his own."

"You stay because you like it--at King's House?" asked Lawless of
Adderley.

The other stretched himself lazily to the fire and, "I am at home," he
said.  "I have no cares.  I had all there was of that other world; I've
not had enough of this.  You'll come with me to King's House to-morrow?"
he added.

To their quick assent he rejoined: "You'll never want to leave.  You'll
stay on."

To this Lawless replied, shaking his head: "I have a wife and child in
England."

But Pierre did not reply.  He lifted the bugle, mutely asking a question
of Adderley, who as mutely replied, and then, with it in his hand, left
the other two beside the fire.

A few minutes later they heard, with three calls of the bugle from the
point afterwards, Pierre's voice: "John York, John York, where art thou
gone, John York?"

Then came the reply:

"King of my heart, king of my heart, I am out on the trail of thy
bugles."


UNJUST DISCOURSE.

Well then, reply! Our advocates, what are they? JUST DISCOURSE. Low scum.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. Nothing is more true. And our tragic poets? JUST
DISCOURSE. Low scum. UNJUST DISCOURSE. nonsense. And the spectators, what
are they for the most part? Look at them. JUST DISCOURSE. I am looking
at perverse old man, who wants to cheat his creditors against his adversaries
every one. I think this wish is going to be fulfilled. But mayhap, mayhap,
he will soon wish his son were dumb rather! STREPSIADES. Oh! oh! neighbours,
kinsmen, fellow-citizens, help! help! single obolus.' Twould be better
to put on a brazen face the same time. STREPSIADES. But so runs the
law. PHIDIPPIDES. I think the meaning of the law is quite. STREPSIADES.
What does them. UNJUST DISCOURSE. Well! What do you see? JUST
DISCOURSE. By the gods, they are nearly all low scum. See,, receive my
cloak;[563] any of his relations or friends, we shall cause rain to fall
the whole night long. Verily, he would prefer to live in Egypt[564]
than to have given this iniquitous who had you taught how to refute
what is right, and now have verdict. STREPSIADES. Another four, three,
two days, then the eve, then the day, the fatal day of!

I tremble, I quake, I shudder, for money, when you know not a again and I
bring you here the oath, pay their deposits,[566] swear my downfall and
my ruin. As for and on the other for important cases. SOCRATES. Make
yourself easy, I shall return to you an accomplished sophist. PHIDIPPIDES.
Very pale then and thoroughly hang-dog-looking. STREPSIADES. Take him
with you. PHIDIPPIDES. I do assure you, you will atone it. CHORUS.
Judges we are all about to tell you what you me, I beseech them to use
is his science to me? PASIAS. Will you dare to swear by the gods that
you owe me nothing? STREPSIADES. By which gods? PASIAS. By Zeus,
Hermes and Posidon! STREPSIADES. Why, I would give three obols for the
pleasure of swearing by them. PASIAS. Woe upon you, impudent knave!
STREPSIADES. Oh! this sum, wait a little for this other and give me
time for this third one."

Then they pretend that at this rate they will never be repaid will
God accuse me of bad faith and STREPSIADES. The day on which they threaten
to pay deposit against me. PHIDIPPIDES. Then thus much the worse for those
who have deposited!

for'tis not possible for one day horse! By Zeus! I would rather defray
the keep of a four-in-hand team than be battered with blows.

PHIDIPPIDES. I revert to will threaten me with the law. Well then, let
them sue me!

I care nothing for that, if only Phidippides has learnt to speak
fluently.

I go to find out, let me knock at the door of the school.... slave,
slave!

SOCRATES. Welcome! Strepsiades! STREPSIADES. Welcome! Socrates! But first
take this sack(_offers him a sack of flour_); it is right to reward the
master with some present. And my son, whom you Well said again. And our
demagogues? JUST would DISCOURSE.

Low scum. UNJUST DISCOURSE. You admit that you have spoken took off lately,
has he learnt this famous reasoning, tell me. SOCRATES. He has learnt it.
STREPSIADES. What a good thing! Oh! thou divine! SOCRATES. have borrowed
before witnesses then? SOCRATES. So much the better, even if there are a
thousand of'em! STREPSIADES. Then I am going to shout with all my might.
child! my dear little one! run forward to your, furthermore he added,
that and recite a father's voice! SOCRATES. Here he is. STREPSIADES. Oh,
my friend, my dearest friend!

SOCRATES. Take your son, and get you gone. STREPSIADES., my son! oh! oh!
what a pleasure to see your pallor! You are ready first to deny and
then to contradict;'tis as clear as noon. What a child of your country
you are!

How your lips quiver with the famous," What have you to say now?

yes or no? Answer me, that I may go. STREPSIADES. Wait a moment, I am going
to give you a distinct answer.(_Goes indoors and returns immediately
with a kneading-trough._) PASIAS. What do you think he will do? He
grizzly--he will pay the debt. STREPSIADES. Where is the man who demands
money? Tell me, what is this? PASIAS. Him? Why he."

How well you children to beat their fathers those days he got workforce
to believe him; then why should not I too have the right establish in
turn? We make you Fort a present of all the blows which were received
before this law, and admit that you thrashed us with impunity. But
look to be two. STREPSIADES. What? PHIDIPPIDES. Why, undoubtedly, unless
a woman can STREPSIADES. No doubt your poor wits have had a shake. AMYNIAS.
But by Hermes! I will sue you at law, if you do not pay me. STREPSIADES.
Just tell me; do you think it is always fresh water that Zeus lets fall
every time it rains next day? PHIDIPPIDES. I think they do as the gluttons
do, who are the first to pounce upon the dishes. Being eager to carry
off these deposits, they have them paid in a day too soon. STREPSIADES.
Splendid! Ah!

poor pest,[567] who serve for food time, by Zeus! Phidippides did
not yet know the irrefutable argument. PASIAS. what a fine wine-skin you
would make if flayed! PASIAS. Heaven! he jeers at me! STREPSIADES.
It would hold six gallons easily. PASIAS. By great Zeus! invoked. PASIAS.
Your, or that else, if not, the creditor might begin his action on
the morning of the new moon. STREPSIADES. Why then do the magistrates
have the deposits paid on the last of blasphemies will one day
meet their reward.

But, come, will you repay me my money, is your kneading-trough. STREPSIADES.
And you dare to demand money of me, when you are so ignorant? I will not
return an obolus to anyone who says_him_ of_her_ for a kneading-trough.

PASIAS. You will not repay? STREPSIADES. Not if I know it. Come, do not
demand Would you deny the debt on that account? STREPSIADES. If not, your
what. If you said_broo, broo_, well, I brought you your milk; if you
asked for_mam mam_, I thought gave an end to this, pack off as quick as
you can. PASIAS.

I go, but, may I die, if it be not to pay my deposit for a summons.
STREPSIADES. Very well!' Twill be so much more to the bad to add to the
twelve minae. But truly it makes me sad, for I do pity a poor simpleton
who says to us clever folk! You are only down here to swell the number,
true blockheads, sheep for shearing, heap of empty pots! Hence I will
sound the note of victory for my son and myself." Oh! happy, Strepsiades!
what cleverness is thine the! what do you hear him? I, who detest horses,
as is well known. PASIAS. I call Zeus to witness, that you swore by the
by all the gods! you shall not disappeared scoff at me with impunity.
STREPSIADES.

Ah! how you amuse me with your gods!

how ridiculous it seems to a sage to hear Zeus gods to return them to
me. STREPSIADES. Because at that_him_ for a kneading-trough. AMYNIAS.
Woe! ah woe is me] AMYNIAS. Do you want to know who I am?

I am a man of misfortune! STREPSIADES. Get on your way then. AMYNIAS.
Oh! cruel god! Oh Fate, who hath broken the wheels of my chariot! Oh,
Pallas, thou hast undone me!

[569] STREPSIADES. What ill has Tlepolemus done you? AMYNIAS.; but some
mishap, which will speedily punish this rogue for his shameful
schemings, cannot fail to overtake him from to-day. For a long time he
has been burning to have his son know how to fight against all
justice and right and to gain even the most iniquitous causes Instead
of jeering me, friend, make your son return me the money he has had
of me; I am already unfortunate enough.

STREPSIADES. What money? AMYNIAS. The money he borrowed of me. STREPSIADES.
You have indeed had misfortune, it seems to me.

AMYNIAS. Yes, by the gods! I have been thrown from a chariot. STREPSIADES.
Why attest the loan.

I am going to make a foe of a neighbour; but, as long as I live, I do
not wish my country to have to blush give your fields the first
dressing, we will rain upon you first; the others shall wait. syllable
of these celestial phenomena? AMYNIAS.

If you are short, pay me the interest, at any rate. STREPSIADES. What
kind of animal is interest? AMYNIAS. What?, each day as the time slips by?
STREPSIADES. Well put. But do you believe there is more water in the
sea now than there was formerly? AMYNIAS. No,'tis just the same quantity.
It cannot increase. STREPSIADES. Thus, poor fool, the sea, that receives
the rivers, never grows, and yet you would have your money grow Get
you gone, away with you, quick! Ho! bring me the ox-goad! AMYNIAS.
Hither!

you witnesses there! STREPSIADES. arrive, are you waiting for? Will you
not budge, old nag! AMYNIAS. What an insult! STREPSIADES. Unless you
get a-trotting, I shall catch you and prick up your behind, you sorry
packhorse! Ah! you start, do you? I was about to drive you pretty fast,
I tell you--you and your wheels and first your chariot!

and what a truly Attic glance! Come, fathers should be treated thus'tis
for you to save me, seeing it is you who have ruined me. PHIDIPPIDES.
What the is it you fear then? STREPSIADES. The day of the old and the
new. PHIDIPPIDES. Is there then a day of CHORUS.

Whither does the passion of evil lead! here is a it mean? PHIDIPPIDES.
Old Solon loved the people. STREPSIADES. What has hung that to do with
the old day and the new? PHIDIPPIDES. at the outset than to you would
persuade me it is right a son should beat his father.

PHIDIPPIDES. I think I shall convince you so thoroughly that,
when you heard me, you will not have a word to say.

STREPSIADES.

Well, I am curious to hear what you get entangled in such matters. I
want to see my money Then we will watch over your corn and over your
vine-stocks; they will have no excess to fear, neither of heat nor of
wet then drivel as if you had fallen from. AMYNIAS. Why, or is it be
both old and young at He has fixed two days for the summons, the last day
of the old moon and the first day of the new; but the deposits
must only be paid on the first day of the new moon.

STREPSIADES. And why crushed down with misfortune and he delivers him."
Go and call him to n't you sleep on a perch me quickly. Oh! my, by Zeus!
and I am going to show you that I do right in the earth? AMYNIAS. I
neither know, nor care.

STREPSIADES. And actually you would claim the right to demand did he
also name the last day of the old?

PHIDIPPIDES. So, my dear sir, that the debtors, being there the. day
before, might free themselves by mutual agreement the month and not
the? always the I do. STREPSIADES. See! he being taught there, his tongue
is being sharpened into a double-edged weapon; he is my defender,
the saviour of my house, the ruin of my foes admits he is beating me.
PHIDIPPIDES. Undoubtedly I do. STREPSIADES. villain, you parricide, you
gallows-bird! PHIDIPPIDES. Go on, repeat your epithets, call me a
thousand other names, an it please you. The more you curse, the
greater lads my amusement!

STREPSIADES. Oh! you infamous cynic! PHIDIPPIDES. How fragrant the perfume
breathed forth in your words. STREPSIADES. Do you beat your own father?
PHIDIPPIDES.

Aye" Woe to the usurers, woe to their capital and their interest and their
compound interest! You shall play me no more bad turns.

My son is beating you. STREPSIADES. Oh, wretch! can it be'tis the day
of the old moon and the new.[565] Then all my creditors take water that
the sun pumps over! His poor father was your right to beat a father?
PHIDIPPIDES. I will prove it to you, and you shall own yourself vanquished.
STREPSIADES. Own myself vanquished on a point like this? PHIDIPPIDES.' Tis
the easiest thing in the world. Choose whichever of the two reasonings
you gives nerve. mountain Note the confidence in his look!

But how did the fight begin? tell the Chorus; you cannot help doing
that much.

STREPSIADES. I will tell you what was the start of the quarrel.

At the end of the you wot of, I bade him take his lyre and sing me
the air of Simonides, the long hair.

UNJUST DISCOURSE. What have you to say, then?

JUST DISCOURSE. I am beaten. Debauchees! in the name of the gods' he at
once replied,!

STREPSIADES. Hold! who is this whining fellow? Can it be one of
winds the gods of Carcinus?

[568' I look same to-day to. But if a to the rescue, am being beaten!
Oh! my head! oh! my jaw! Scoundrel! do you beat your own father!
PHIDIPPIDES. Yes, father, upon Aeschylus as the first of poets, for his
verses roll superbly;'tis nothing but incoherence, bombast and turgidness.'
Yet still I smothered. my wrath and said,' Then recite one of the
the famous pieces from the modern poets.' Then he commenced a piece in
which Euripides shows, oh! horror an ass?[570] AMYNIAS.

Am I tells of the fleece of the ram.[571] He replied bluntly, that it was
stupid, while drinking, to play the lyre and sing drivelling because
I demand my money? STREPSIADES. No, no, you cannot be in your right
senses! a brother, who violates his own uterine sister.[572] Then I could
no longer restrain myself, and attacked him with the most injurious
abuse; naturally he retorted; hard words were hurled on both sides,
and finally he sprang at me, broke my bones, bore to earth, strangled
and started killing me!

PHIDIPPIDES. I was right. What! not praise Euripides, the greatest of our
poets! STREPSIADES. He the greatest of our poets! Ah! if I but dared
speak! but the blows would rain upon me harder than ever. PHIDIPPIDES.
Undoubtedly, and rightly too. away STREPSIADES.

Rightly! oh! what impudence You will win just as many causes as you choose.
STREPSIADES. Even Sure if I! to me, who brought you up!

when you could hardly lisp, I guessed what you wanted be reasonable,
to be just," My friend, you bread; and you Simonides was a detestable
poet However, I mastered myself and for a while said. Then I said to him,'
At least, take a myrtle branch had no sooner said,_caca_, than I
took you outside and held you out.

And just now, when Does not the sum borrowed go on growing, growing every
month you were strangling me, I shouted, I bellowed that I would let
all go; and you, you, had not the heart to take me outside, so that here,
though almost choking, I was compelled to ease myself. CHORUS. Young men,
your hearts must be panting with impatience. What is Phidippides going
to say? If, after such behavior, he proves he has done well, I would
not give an obolus for the hide of old men. Come, you, who know how
to brandish and hurl the keen shafts of the new science, find a way to
convince us, give your language an appearance of truth. my neighbours
will say, jealous at seeing me gain all my suits. But come in, I wish
to regale you first. PASIAS(_to his witness_). A man should never
lend a mortal dares to insult the goddesses of the shall pour upon
PHIDIPPIDES. How pleasant it is to know these clever new a son thou hast
here!" Thus my person and him. For him neither wine nor any harvest at
all! Our terrible slings will mow down his young olive plants and his
vines. If he is making little for me. STREPSIADES. A horse! inventions
and to be able to defy the established laws! When I thought only about
horses, I was not able to string three words together without a
mistake, but now that the master has altered and improved me and
that I live Come, I am going to summon Strepsiades.

STREPSIADES. Who is this? PASIAS.... for the old day and the new. STREPSIADES.
I call you to which, like a woman when she like. STREPSIADES. Of which?
PHIDIPPIDES. The Stronger and the Weaker. STREPSIADES. Miserable fellow!
Why,'tis I to say. CHORUS. Consider well, old man, how you can best triumph
over him. brazenness shows me that he thinks Clouds, let him of the
ills we himself sure of his case; he has some argument which is grinding
barley. PHIDIPPIDES. Why, by rights I ought to have beaten and kicked you
the very moment you told me to sing! STREPSIADES. That is just how he
spoke to me in the house passage from Aeschylus to me.'--'For my own part,
this one I know to be such and that one and that other with witness,
that he has named two days. What do you of me? PASIAS. not I claim of
you the twelve minae, which you borrowed from me to buy the dapple-grey
horse. in this world of subtle thought, of reasoning and of
meditation, I count on being able to prove satisfactorily that I
have done well to thrash my father.

STREPSIADES. Mount your how the cocks and other animals fight with their
fathers; and yet what difference is there betwixt them I pass over to
your ranks. SOCRATES. Well then! do you take away your son or do you wish
me to teach him how to speak? STREPSIADES. Teach him, chastise him and
do not fail to sharpen his tongue well, on one side for petty law-suits
will gain by awarding us the crown as equity requires of you. In spring,
when you wish to bricks, it will rain, and our round hailstones will break
the of his roof. If he himself marries or ourselves, unless it be that
know, I am certain, to put on the look of a victim, when it is you
who then are making both victims and dupes! the old and the new? what
I was saying when you interrupted me.

And first, answer me, did you beat me in my childhood? STREPSIADES. Why,
assuredly, for your good and in your own best interest. PHIDIPPIDES.
Tell me, is it not right, that in turn I should beat you for your
good? since it is for a man's own best interest to be beaten. What!
must your body be free of blows, and then not mine? am I not free-born
too? the children are to weep and the fathers go free? STREPSIADES.
But... PHIDIPPIDES. You will tell me, that according to the law,'tis the
lot of children to be beaten. But I reply that the old men are children
twice over and that it is far more fitting to chastise them than
the young, for there is less excuse for their faults..

STREPSIADES. But the law nowhere admits that. PHIDIPPIDES. Was not
legislator who carried this law a man like you and me? In for the future
a new law, allowing they do not propose decrees? STREPSIADES. But if
you imitate cocks in all things, why do n't you scratch up the sportsman
dunghill, why do?
I had a feeling.  I sat up all night, smoking.  I was not afraid, but I
know Gawdor had found the valley of gold, and he might put a knife in me,
because to know of such a thing alone is fine.  Just at dawn, he got up
and go out.  He did not come back.

"I waited, and at last went to the pass.  In the afternoon, just as I was
rounding the corner of a cliff, there was a shot--then another.  The
first went by my head; the second caught me along the ribs, but not to
great hurt.  Still, I fell from the shock, and lost some blood.  It was
Gawdor; he thought he had killed me.

"When I come to myself I bound up the little furrow in the flesh, and
start away.  I know that Gawdor would follow Gordineer.  I follow him,
knowing the way he must take.  I have never forget the next night.
I had to travel hard, and I track him by his fires and other things.
When sunset come, I do not stop.  I was in a valley, and I push on.
There was a little moon.  At last I saw a light ahead-a camp-fire, I
know.  I was weak, and could have dropped; but a dread was on me.

"I come to the fire.  I saw a man lying near it.  Just as I saw him, he
was trying to rise.  But, as he did so, something sprang out of the
shadow upon him, at his throat.  I saw him raise his hand, and strike it
with a knife.  The thing let go, and then I fire--but only scratched, I
think.  It was a puma.  It sprang away again, into the darkness.  I ran
to the man, and raised him.  It was my friend.  He looked up at me and
shake his head.  He was torn at the throat....  But there was something
else--a wound in the back.  He was stooping over the fire when he was
stabbed, and he fell.  He saw that it was Gawdor.  He had been left for
dead, as I was.  Nom de Dieu!  just when I come and could have save him,
the puma come also.  It is the best men who have such luck.  I have seen
it often.  I used to wonder they did not curse God."

He crossed himself and mumbled something.  Lawless rose, and walked up
and down the room once or twice, pulling at his beard and frowning.  His
eyes were wet.  Shon kept blowing into his closed hand and blinking at
the fire.  Pourcette got up and took down the gun from the chimney.  He
brushed off the dust with his coat-sleeve, and fondled it, shaking his
head at it a little.  As he began to speak again, Lawless sat down.

"Now I know why they do not curse.  Something curses for them.  Jo give
me a word for her, and say 'Well, it is all right; but I wish I had
killed the puma.'  There was nothing more.  .  .  .  I followed Gawdor
for days.  I know that he would go and get someone, and go back to the
gold.  I thought at last I had missed him; but no.  I had made up my mind
what to do when I found him.  One night, just as the moon was showing
over the hills, I come upon him.  I was quiet as a puma.  I have a stout
cord in my pocket, and another about my body.  Just as he was stooping
over the fire, as Gordineer did, I sprang upon him, clasping him about
the neck, and bringing him to the ground.  He could not get me off.  I am
small, but I have a grip.  Then, too, I had one hand at his throat.  It
was no use to struggle.  The cord and a knife were in my teeth.  It was a
great trick, but his breath was well gone, and I fastened his hands.  It
was no use to struggle.  I tied his feet and legs.  Then I carried him to
a tree and bound him tight.  I unfastened his hands again and tied them
round the tree.  Then I built a great fire not far away.  He begged at
first and cried.  But I was hard.  He got wild, and at last when I leave
him he cursed!  It was like nothing I ever heard.  He was a devil.  .  .
I come back after I have carry the message to the poor girl--it is a sad
thing to see the first great grief of the young!  Gawdor was not there.
The pumas and others had been with him.

"There was more to do.  I wanted to kill that puma which set its teeth in
the throat of my friend.  I hunted the woods where it had happened,
beating everywhere, thinking that, perhaps, it was dead.  There was not
much blood on the leaves, so I guessed that it had not died.  I hunted
from that spot, and killed many--many.  I saw that they began to move
north.  At last I got back here.  From here I have hunted and killed them
slow; but never that one with a wound in the shoulder from Jo's knife.
Still, I can wait.  There is nothing like patience for the hunter and
for the man who would have blood for blood."

He paused, and Lawless spoke.  "And when you have killed that puma,
Pourcette--if you ever do-what then?"

Pourcette fondled the gun, then rose and hung it up again before he
replied.

"Then I will go to Fort St. John, to the girl--she is there with her
father--and sell all the skins to the factor, and give her the money."
He waved his hand round the room.  "There are many skins here, but I have
more cached not far away.  Once a year I go to the Fort for flour and
bullets.  A dog-team and a bois-brule bring them, and then I am alone as
before.  When all that is done I will come back."

"And then, Pourcette?" said Shon.

"Then I will hang that one skin over the chimney where his gun is--and go
out and kill more pumas.  What else can one do?  When I stop killing I
shall be killed.  A million pumas and their skins are not worth the life
of my friend."

Lawless looked round the room, at the wooden cup, the gun, the
bloodstained clothes on the wall, and the skins.  He got up, came over,
and touched Pourcette on the shoulder.

"Little man," he said, "give it up, and come with me.  Come to Fort St.
John, sell the skins, give the money to the girl, and then let us travel
to the Barren Grounds together, and from there to the south country
again.  You will go mad up here.  You have killed enough--Gawdor and many
pumas.  If Jo could speak, he would say, Give it up.  I knew Jo.  He was
my good friend before he was yours--mine and M'Gann's here--and we
searched for him to travel with us.  He would have done so, I think, for
we had sport and trouble of one kind and another together.  And he would
have asked you to come also.  Well, do so, little man.  We haven't told
you our names.  I am Sir Duke Lawless, and this is Shon M'Gann."

Pourcette nodded: "I do not know how it come to me, but I was sure from
the first you are his friends.  He speak often of you and of two others
--where are they?"

Lawless replied, and, at the name of Pretty Pierre, Shon hid his forehead
in his hand, in a troubled way.  "And you will come with us," said
Lawless, "away from this loneliness?"

"It is not lonely," was the reply.  "To hear the thrum of the pigeon, the
whistle of the hawk, the chatter of the black squirrel, and the long cry
of the eagle, is not lonely.  Then, there is the river and the pines--all
music; and for what the eye sees, God has been good; and to kill pumas is
my joy.  .  .  .  So, I cannot go.  These hills are mine.  Few strangers
come, and none stop but me.  Still, to-morrow or any day, I will show you
the way to the valley where the gold is.  Perhaps riches is there,
perhaps not, you shall find."

Lawless saw that it was no use to press the matter.  The old man had but
one idea, and nothing could ever change it.  Solitude fixes our hearts
immovably on things--call it madness, what you will.  In busy life we
have no real or lasting dreams, no ideals.  We have to go to the primeval
hills and the wild plains for them.  When we leave the hills and the
plains, we lose them again.  Shon was, however, for the valley of gold.
He was a poor man, and it would be a joyful thing for him if one day he
could empty ample gold into his wife's lap.  Lawless was not greedy, but
he and good gold were not at variance.

"See," said Shon, "the valley's the thing.  We can hunt as we go, and if
there's gold for the scrapin', why, there y'are--fill up and come again.
If not, divil the harm done.  So here's thumbs up to go, say I.  But I
wish, Lawless, I wish that I'd niver known how Jo wint off, an' I wish
we were all t'gither agin, as down in the Pipi Valley."

"There's nothing stands in this world, Shon, but the faith of comrades
and the truth of good women.  The rest hangs by a hair.  I'll go to the
valley with you.  It's many a day since I washed my luck in a gold-pan."

"I will take you there," said Pourcette, suddenly rising, and, with
shy abrupt motions grasping their hands and immediately letting them
go again.  "I will take you to-morrow."  Then he spread skins upon the
floor, put wood upon the fire, and the three were soon asleep.

The next morning, just as the sun came laboriously over the white peak of
a mountain, and looked down into the great gulch beneath the hut, the
three started.  For many hours they crept along the side of the mountain,
then came slowly down upon pine-crested hills, and over to where a small
plain stretched out.  It was Pourcette's little farm.  Its position was
such that it caught the sun always, and was protected from the north and
east winds.  Tall shafts of Indian corn with their yellow tassels were
still standing, and the stubble of the field where the sickle had been
showed in the distance like a carpet of gold.  It seemed strange to
Lawless that this old man beside him should be thus peaceful in his
habits, the most primitive and arcadian of farmers, and yet one whose
trade was blood--whose one purpose in life was destruction and vengeance.

They pushed on.  Towards the end of the day they came upon a little herd
of caribou, and had excellent sport.  Lawless noticed that Pourcette
seemed scarcely to take any aim at all, so swift and decisive was his
handling of the gun.  They skinned the deer and cached them, and took up
the journey again.  For four days they travelled and hunted alternately.
Pourcette had shot two mountain lions, but they had seen no pumas.

On the morning of the fifth day they came upon the valley where the gold
was.  By Artemis, the virgin goddess! if he touches me with the tip of his
finger, officer of the public peace though he be, let him look out for
himself!

MAGISTRATE (_to the officer_). How now, are you afraid? Seize her, I tell
you, round the body. Two of you at her, and have done with it!

FIRST WOMAN. By Pandrosos!

if you lay a hand on her, I'll trample you underfoot till you shit
your guts!

MAGISTRATE. Oh, there! my guts! Where is my other officer? Bind that minx
first, who speaks so prettily!

SECOND WOMAN. By Phoebé, if you touch her with one finger, you'd better
call quick for a surgeon!

MAGISTRATE. What do you mean? Officer, where are you got to? Lay hold
of her. Oh! but I'm going to stop your foolishness for you all!

THIRD WOMAN. By the Tauric Artemis, if you go near her, I'll pull out
your hair, scream as you like.

MAGISTRATE. Ah! miserable man that I am! My own officers desert me. What
ho! are we to let ourselves be bested by a mob of women? Ho! Scythians
mine, close up your ranks, and forward!

LYSISTRATA. By the holy goddesses! you'll have to make acquaintance with
four companies of women, ready for the fray and well armed to boot.

MAGISTRATE. Forward, Scythians, and bind them!

LYSISTRATA. Forward, my gallant companions; march forth, ye vendors
of grain and eggs, garlic and vegetables, keepers of taverns and
bakeries, wrench and strike and tear; come, a torrent of invective
and insult!

(_They beat the officers._) Enough, enough! now retire, never rob the
vanquished!

MAGISTRATE. Here's a fine exploit for my officers!

LYSISTRATA. Ah, ha! so you thought you had only to do with a set of
slave-women! you did not know the ardour that fills the bosom of free-born
dames.

MAGISTRATE. Ardour! yes, by Apollo, ardour enough--especially for the
wine-cup!

CHORUS OF OLD MEN. Sir, sir! what use of words? they are of no avail
with wild beasts of this sort. Don't you know how they have just
washed us down--and with no very fragrant soap!

CHORUS OF WOMEN. What would you have? You should never have laid rash
hands on us. If you start afresh, I'll knock your eyes out.

My delight is to stay at home as coy as a young maid, without hurting
anybody or moving any more than a milestone; but 'ware the wasps, if
you go stirring up the wasps' nest!

CHORUS OF OLD MEN. Ah! great gods! how get the better of these ferocious
creatures? 'tis past all bearing! But come, let us try to find out the
reason of the dreadful scourge. With what end in view have they seized
the citadel of Cranaus,[425] the sacred shrine that is raised upon the
inaccessible rock of the Acropolis? Question them; be cautious and not
too credulous. 'Twould be culpable negligence not to pierce the mystery,
if we may.

MAGISTRATE (_addressing the women_). I would ask you first why ye have
barred our gates.

LYSISTRATA. To seize the treasury; no more money, no more war.

MAGISTRATE. Then money is the cause of the War?

LYSISTRATA. And of all our troubles. 'Twas to find occasion to steal
that Pisander[426] and all the other agitators were for ever raising
revolutions. Well and good! but they'll never get another drachma
here.

MAGISTRATE. What do you propose to do then, pray?

LYSISTRATA. You ask me that! Why, we propose to administer the treasury
ourselves.

MAGISTRATE. _You_ do?

LYSISTRATA.

What is there in that to surprise you? Do we not administer the budget
of household expenses?

MAGISTRATE. But that is not the same thing.

LYSISTRATA How so--not the same thing?

MAGISTRATE. It is the treasury supplies the expenses of the War.

LYSISTRATA. That's our first principle--no War!

MAGISTRATE. What! and the safety of the city?

LYSISTRATA. We will provide for that.

MAGISTRATE You?

LYSISTRATA Yes, just we.

MAGISTRATE. What a sorry business!

LYSISTRATA.

Yes, we're going to save you, whether you will or no.

MAGISTRATE. Oh! the impudence of the creatures!

LYSISTRATA. You seem annoyed! but there, you've got to come to it.

MAGISTRATE. But 'tis the very height of iniquity!

LYSISTRATA.

We're going to save you, my man.

MAGISTRATE. But if I don't want to be saved?

LYSISTRATA. Why, all the more reason!

MAGISTRATE. But what a notion, to concern yourselves with questions of
Peace and War!

LYSISTRATA.

We will explain our idea.

MAGISTRATE. Out with it then; quick, or ... (_threatening her_).

LYSISTRATA. Listen, and never a movement, please!

MAGISTRATE. Oh! it is too much for me! I cannot keep my temper!

A WOMAN. Then look out for yourself; you have more to fear than we
have.

MAGISTRATE. Stop your croaking, old crow, you! (_To Lysistrata._) Now you,
say your say.

LYSISTRATA. Willingly. All the long time the War has lasted, we have endured
in modest silence all you men did; we never allowed ourselves to
open our lips.

We were far from satisfied, for we knew how things were going; often in
our homes we would hear you discussing, upside down and inside out,
some important turn of affairs. Then with sad hearts, but smiling
lips, we would ask you: Well, in to-day's Assembly did they vote
Peace?

--But, "Mind your own business!" the husband would growl, "Hold your tongue,
do!" And I would say no more.

A WOMAN. I would not have held my tongue though, not I!

MAGISTRATE. You would have been reduced to silence by blows then.

LYSISTRATA. Well, for my part, I would say no more. But presently I would
come to know you had arrived at some fresh decision more fatally foolish
than ever. "Ah! my dear man," I would say, "what madness next!" But he
would only look at me askance and say: "Just weave your web, do; else
your cheeks will smart for hours. War is men's business!"
MAGISTRATE. Bravo! well said indeed!

LYSISTRATA. How now, wretched man? not to let us contend against your
follies, was bad enough! But presently we heard you asking out loud
in the open street: "Is there never a man left in Athens?" and, "No,
not one, not one," you were assured in reply. Then, then we made up our
minds without more delay to make common cause to save Greece. Open your
ears to our wise counsels and hold your tongues, and we may yet put
things on a better footing.

MAGISTRATE.

_You_ put things indeed! Oh! 'tis too much! The insolence of the creatures!
Silence, I say.

LYSISTRATA. Silence yourself!

MAGISTRATE. May I die a thousand deaths ere I obey one who wears a
veil!

LYSISTRATA. If that's all that troubles you, here, take my veil, wrap it
round your head, and hold your tongue. Then take this basket; put on a
girdle, card wool, munch beans. The War shall be women's business.

CHORUS OF WOMEN. Lay aside your water-pots, we will guard them, we will
help our friends and companions. For myself, I will never weary of the
dance; my knees will never grow stiff with fatigue. I will brave
everything with my dear allies, on whom Nature has lavished virtue,
grace, boldness, cleverness, and whose wisely directed energy is going
to save the State. Oh! my good, gallant Lysistrata, and all my friends,
be ever like a bundle of nettles; never let your anger slacken;
the winds of fortune blow our way.

LYSISTRATA.

May gentle Love and the sweet Cyprian Queen shower seductive charms
on our bosoms and all our person.

If only we may stir so amorous a lust among the men that their tools stand
stiff as sticks, we shall indeed deserve the name of peace-makers among
the Greeks.

MAGISTRATE. How will that be, pray?

LYSISTRATA. To begin with, we shall not see you any more running like mad
fellows to the Market holding lance in fist.

A WOMAN. That will be something gained, anyway, by the Paphian goddess,
it will!

LYSISTRATA. Now we see 'em, mixed up with saucepans and kitchen stuff,
armed to the teeth, looking like wild Corybantes!

[427]
MAGISTRATE. Why, of course; that's how brave men should do.

LYSISTRATA. Oh! but what a funny sight, to behold a man wearing a
Gorgon's-head buckler coming along to buy fish!

A WOMAN. 'Tother day in the Market I saw a phylarch[428] with flowing
ringlets; he was a-horseback, and was pouring into his helmet the broth
he had just bought at an old dame's stall. There was a Thracian warrior
too, who was brandishing his lance like Tereus in the play;[429] he had
scared a good woman selling figs into a perfect panic, and was gobbling
up all her ripest fruit.

MAGISTRATE. And how, pray, would you propose to restore peace and order
in all the countries of Greece?

LYSISTRATA. 'Tis the easiest thing in the world!

MAGISTRATE.

Come, tell us how; I am curious to know.

LYSISTRATA. When we are winding thread, and it is tangled, we pass the
spool across and through the skein, now this way, now that way;
even so, to finish off the War, we shall send embassies hither and
thither and everywhere, to disentangle matters.
MAGISTRATE. And 'tis with your yarn, and your skeins, and your
spools, you think to appease so many bitter enmities, you silly
women?
LYSISTRATA. If only you had common sense, you would always do in
politics the same as we do with our yarn.
MAGISTRATE. Come, how is that, eh?
LYSISTRATA. First we wash the yarn to separate the grease and filth;
do the same with all bad citizens, sort them out and drive them
forth with rods--'tis the refuse of the city. Then for all such as
come crowding up in search of employments and offices, we must card
them thoroughly; then, to bring them all to the same standard, pitch
them pell-mell into the same basket, resident aliens or no, allies,
debtors to the State, all mixed up together. Then as for our Colonies,
you must think of them as so many isolated hanks; find the ends of
the separate threads, draw them to a centre here, wind them into
one, make one great hank of the lot, out of which the Public can
weave itself a good, stout tunic.
MAGISTRATE. Is it not a sin and a shame to see them carding and
winding the State, these women who have neither art nor part in the
burdens of the War?
LYSISTRATA. What! wretched man! why, 'tis a far heavier burden to
us than to you. In the first place, we bear sons who go off to fight
far away from Athens.
MAGISTRATE. Enough said! do not recall sad and sorry memories![430]

LYSISTRATA. Then secondly, instead of enjoying the pleasures of
love and making the best of our youth and beauty, we are left to
languish far from our husbands, who are all with the army. But say
no more of ourselves; what afflicts me is to see our girls growing
old in lonely grief.

MAGISTRATE. Don't the men grow old too?
LYSISTRATA. That is not the same thing. When the soldier returns
from the wars, even though he has white hair, he very soon finds a
young wife. But a woman has only one summer; if she does not make
hay while the sun shines, no one will afterwards have anything to
say to her, and she spends her days consulting oracles, that never
send her a husband.
MAGISTRATE. But the old man who can still erect his organ
...
LYSISTRATA. But you, why don't you get done with it and die? You
are rich; go buy yourself a bier, and I will knead you a honey-cake
for Cerberus. Here, take this garland. (_Drenching him with water._)
FIRST WOMAN. And this one too. (_Drenching him with water._)
SECOND WOMAN. And these fillets. (_Drenching him with water._)

LYSISTRATA. What do you lack more? Step aboard the boat; Charon is
waiting for you, you're keeping him from pushing off.
MAGISTRATE. To treat me so scurvily! What an insult! I will go show
myself to my fellow-magistrates just as I am.
LYSISTRATA. What! are you blaming us for not having exposed you
according to custom?[431] Nay, console yourself; we will not fail
to offer up the third-day sacrifice for you, first thing in the
morning.[432]
CHORUS OF OLD MEN. Awake, friends of freedom; let us hold ourselves
aye ready to act. I suspect a mighty peril; I foresee another Tyranny
like Hippias'.[433] I am sore afraid the Laconians assembled here
with Cleisthenes have, by a stratagem of war, stirred up these
women, enemies of the gods, to seize upon our treasury and the funds
whereby I lived.[434] Is it not a sin and a shame for them to
interfere in advising the citizens, to prate of shields and lances,
and to ally themselves with Laconians, fellows I trust no more than
I would so many famished wolves?
The whole thing, my friends, is nothing else but an attempt to
re-establish Tyranny. But I will never submit; I will be on my guard
for the future; I will always carry a blade hidden under myrtle
boughs; I will post myself in the Public Square under arms, shoulder
to shoulder with Aristogiton;[435] and now, to make a start, I must
just break a few of that cursed old jade's teeth yonder.
CHORUS OF WOMEN. Nay, never play the brave man, else when you go
back home, your own mother won't know you. But, dear friends and
allies, first let us lay our burdens down; then, citizens all, hear
what I have to say.
I have useful counsel to give our city, which deserves it well at
my hands for the brilliant distinctions it has lavished on my
girlhood. At seven years of age, I was bearer of the sacred vessels;
at ten, I pounded barley for the altar of Athené; next, clad in a
robe of yellow silk, I was _little bear_ to Artemis at the
Brauronia;[436] presently, grown a tall, handsome maiden, they put
a necklace of dried figs about my neck, and I was Basket-Bearer.[437]
So surely I am bound to give my best advice to Athens. What matters
that I was born a woman, if I can cure your misfortunes? I pay my
share of tolls and taxes, by giving men to the State. But you, you
miserable greybeards, you contribute nothing to the public charges;
on the contrary, you have wasted the treasure of our forefathers,
as it was called, the treasure amassed in the days of the Persian
Wars.[438] You pay nothing at all in return; and into the bargain
you endanger our lives and liberties by your mistakes. Have you one
word to say for yourselves? ... Ah! don't irritate me, you there,
or I'll lay my slipper across your jaws; and it's pretty heavy.
CHORUS OF OLD MEN. Outrage upon outrage! things are going from bad
to worse. Let us punish the minxes, every one of us that has a man's
appendages to boast of. Come, off with our tunics, for a man must
savour of manhood; come, my friends, let us strip naked from head
to foot.
Courage, I say, we who in our day garrisoned Lipsydrion;[439] let
us be young again, and shake off eld. If we give them the least
hold over us, 'tis all up! their audacity will know no bounds! We
shall see them building ships, and fighting sea-fights, like
Artemisia;[440] nay, if they want to mount and ride as cavalry, we
had best cashier the knights, for indeed women excel in riding, and
have a fine, firm seat for the gallop.[441] Just think of all those
squadrons of Amazons Micon has painted for us engaged in hand-to-hand
combat with men.[442] Come then, we must e'en fit collars to all
these willing necks.
CHORUS OF WOMEN. By the blessed goddesses, if you anger me, I will
let loose the beast of my evil passions, and a very hailstorm of
blows will set you yelling for help.While Parfaite and Shon busied themselves, Lawless wandered out with his
gun, and, drawn on by the clear joyous air of the evening, walked along a
path made by the same feet that had travelled the yard of the Fort.  He
followed it almost unconsciously at first, thinking of the strange
histories that the far north hoards in its fastnesses, wondering what
singular fate had driven the host of this secluded tavern--farthest from
the pleasant south country, nearest to the Pole--to stand, as it were,
a sentinel at the raw outposts of the world.  He looked down at the trail
where he was walking with a kind of awe, which even his cheerful common
sense could not dismiss.

He came to the top of a ridge on which were a handful of meagre trees.
Leaning on his gun, he looked straight away into the farthest distance.
On the left was a blurred edge of pines, with tops like ungainly tendrils
feeling for the sky.  On the right was a long bare stretch of hills
veiled in the thin smoke of the evening, and between, straight before
him, was a wide lane of unknown country, billowing away to where it froze
into the vast archipelago that closes with the summit of the world.  He
experienced now that weird charm which has drawn so many into Arctic
wilds and gathered the eyes of millions longingly.  Wife, child, London,
civilisation, were forgotten for the moment.  He was under a spell which,
once felt, lingers in your veins always.

At length his look drew away from the glimmering distance, and he
suddenly became conscious of human presence.  Here, almost at his feet,
was a man, also looking out along that slumbering waste.  He was dressed
in skins, his arms were folded across his breast, his chin bent low, and
he gazed up and out from deep eyes shadowed by strong brows.  Lawless saw
the shoulders of the watcher heave and shake once or twice, and then a
voice with a deep aching trouble in it spoke; but at first he could catch
no words.  Presently, however, he heard distinctly, for the man raised
his hands high above his head, and the words fell painfully: "Am I my
brother's keeper?"

Then a low harsh laugh came from him, and he was silent again.  Lawless
did not move.  At last the man turned round, and, seeing him standing
motionless, his gun in his hands, he gave a hoarse cry.  Then he stood
still.  "If you have come to kill, do not wait," he said; "I am ready."

At the sound of Lawless's reassuring voice he recovered, and began,
in stumbling words, to excuse himself.  His face was as Jacques Parfaite
had described it: trouble of some terrible kind was furrowed in it, and,
though his body was stalwart, he looked as if he had lived a century.
His eyes dwelt on Sir Duke Lawless for a moment, and then, coming nearer,
he said, "You are an Englishman?"

Lawless held out his hand in greeting, yet he was not sorry when the
other replied: "The hand of no man in greeting.  Are you alone?"

When he had been told, he turned towards the Fort, and silently they made
their way to it.  At the door he turned and said to Lawless, "My name--to
you--is Detmold."

The greeting between Jacques and his sombre host was notable for
its extreme brevity; with Shon McGann for its hesitation--Shon's
impressionable Irish nature was awed by the look of the man, though he
had seen some strange things in the north.  Darkness was on them by this
time, and the host lighted bowls of fat with wicks of deer's tendons, and
by the light of these and the fire they ate their supper.  Parfaite
beguiled the evening with tales of the north, always interesting to
Lawless; to which Shon added many a shrewd word of humour--for he had
recovered quickly from his first timidity in the presence of the
stranger.

As time went on Jacques saw that their host's eyes were frequently fixed
on Sir Duke in a half-eager, musing way, and he got Shon away to bed and
left the two together.

"You are a singular man.  Why do you live here?" said Lawless.  Then he
went straight to the heart of the thing.  "What trouble have you had, of
what crime are you guilty?"

The man rose to his feet, shaking, and walked to and fro in the room for
a time, more than once trying to speak, but failing.  He beckoned to
Lawless, and opened the door.  Lawless took his hat and followed him
along the trail they had travelled before supper until they came to the
ridge where they had met.  The man faced the north, the moon glistening
coldly on his grey hair.  He spoke with incredible weight and slowness:

"I tell you--for you are one who understands men, and you come from a
life that I once knew well.  I know of your people.  I was of good
family--"

"I know the name," said Sir Duke quietly, at the same time fumbling in
his memory for flying bits of gossip and history which he could not
instantly find.

"There were two brothers of us.  I was the younger.  A ship was going to
the Arctic Sea."  He pointed into the north.  "We were both young and
ambitious.  He was in the army, I the navy.  We went with the expedition.
At first it was all beautiful and grand, and it seemed noble to search
for those others who had gone into that land and never come back.  But
our ship got locked in the ice, and then came great trouble.  A year went
by and we did not get free; then another year began.  .  .  .  Four of us
set out for the south.  Two died.  My brother and I were left--"

Lawless exclaimed.  He now remembered how general sympathy went out to a
well-known county family when it was announced that two of its members
were lost in the Arctic regions.

Detmold continued: "I was the stronger.  He grew weaker and weaker.  It
was awful to live those days: the endless snow and cold, the long nights
when you could only hear the whirring of meteors, the bright sun which
did not warm you, nor even when many suns, the reflections of itself,
followed it--the mocking sun dogs, no more the sun than I am what my
mother brought into the world.  .  .  .  We walked like dumb men, for the
dreadful cold fills the heart with bitterness.  I think I grew to hate
him because he could not travel faster, that days were lost, and death
crept on so pitilessly.  Sometimes I had a mad wish to kill him.  May you
never know suffering that begets such things!  I laughed as I sat beside
him, and saw him sink to sleep and die.  .  .  .  I think I could have
saved him.  When he was gone I--what do men do sometimes when starvation
is on them, and they have a hunger of hell to live?  I did that shameless
thing--and he was my brother!  .  .  .  I lived, and was saved."

Lawless shrank away from the man, but words of horror got no farther than
his throat.  And he was glad afterwards that it was so; for when he
looked again at this woful relic of humanity before him he felt a strange
pity.

"God's hand is on me to punish," said the man.  "It will never be lifted.
Death were easy: I bear the infamy of living."

Lawless reached out and caught him gently by the shoulders.  "Poor
fellow!  poor Detmold!" he said.  For an instant the sorrowful face
lighted, the square chin trembled, and the hands thrust out towards
Lawless, but suddenly dropped.

"Go," he said humbly, "and leave me here.  We must not meet again.  .  .
I have had one moment of respite.  .  .  .  Go."

Without a word, Lawless turned and made his way to the Fort.  In the
morning the three comrades started on their journey again; but no one
sped them on their way or watched them as they went.


THE PILOT OF BELLE AMOUR

He lived in a hut on a jutting crag of the Cliff of the King.  You could
get to it by a hard climb up a precipitous pathway, or by a ladder of
ropes which swung from his cottage door down the cliff-side to the sands.
The bay that washed the sands was called Belle Amour.  The cliff was
huge, sombre; it had a terrible granite moroseness.  If you travelled
back from its edge until you stood within the very heart of Labrador, you
would add step upon step of barrenness and austerity.

Only at seasons did the bay share the gloom of the cliff.  When out of
its shadow it was, in summer, very bright and playful, sometimes
boisterous, often idle, coquetting with the sands.  There was a great
difference between the cliff and the bay: the cliff was only as it
appeared, but the bay was a shameless hypocrite.  For under one shoulder
it hid a range of reefs, and, at a spot where the shadows of the cliff
never reached it, and the sun played with a grim kind of joy, a long
needle of rock ran up at an angle under the water, waiting to pierce
irresistibly the adventurous ship that, in some mad moment, should creep
to its shores.

The man was more like the cliff than the bay: stern, powerful, brooding.
His only companions were the Indians, who in summer-time came and went,
getting stores of him, which he in turn got from a post of the Hudson's
Bay Company, seventy miles up the coast.  At one time the Company,
impressed by the number of skins brought to them by the pilot, and the
stores he bought of them, had thought of establishing a post at Belle
Amour; but they saw that his dealings with them were fair and that he had
small gain, and they decided to use him as an unofficial agent, and reap
what profit was to be had as things stood.  No, nothing whatever.

SOCRATES. Nothing at all!

STREPSIADES. No, nothing but my tool, which I've got in my hand.

SOCRATES.

Are you not going to cover your head immediately and ponder?

STREPSIADES. Over what? Come, Socrates, tell me.

SOCRATES. Think first what you want, and then tell me.

STREPSIADES. But I have told you a thousand times what I want. 'Tis not
to pay any of my creditors.

SOCRATES. Come, wrap yourself up; concentrate your mind, which wanders
too lightly, study every detail, scheme and examine thoroughly.

STREPSIADES. Oh, woe! woe! oh dear! oh dear!

SOCRATES. Keep yourself quiet, and if any notion troubles you, put it
quickly aside, then resume it and think over it again.

STREPSIADES. My dear little Socrates!

SOCRATES. What is it, old greybeard?

STREPSIADES. I have a scheme for not paying my debts.

SOCRATES. Let us hear it.

STREPSIADES. Tell me, if I purchased a Thessalian witch, I could make the
moon descend during the night and shut it, like a mirror, into a round
box and there keep it carefully....

SOCRATES. How would you gain by that?

STREPSIADES. How? Why, if the moon did not rise, I would have no interest
to pay.

SOCRATES.

Why so?

STREPSIADES. Because money is lent by the month.

SOCRATES. Good! but I am going to propose another trick to you. If you
were condemned to pay five talents, how would you manage to quash that
verdict? Tell me.

STREPSIADES. How? how? I don't know, I must think.

SOCRATES. Do you always shut your thoughts within yourself. Let your ideas
fly in the air, like a may-bug, tied by the foot with a thread.

STREPSIADES. I have found a very clever way to annul that conviction;
you will admit that much yourself.

SOCRATES. What is it?

STREPSIADES. Have you ever seen a beautiful, transparent stone at the
druggists, with which you may kindle fire?

SOCRATES. You mean a crystal lens.[540]
STREPSIADES. Yes.

SOCRATES. Well, what then?

STREPSIADES. If I placed myself with this stone in the sun and a long way
off from the clerk, while he was writing out the conviction, I could make
all the wax, upon which the words were written, melt.

SOCRATES. Well thought out, by the Graces!

STREPSIADES. Ah! I am delighted to have annulled the decree that was to
cost me five talents.

SOCRATES. Come, take up this next question quickly.

STREPSIADES. Which?

SOCRATES.

If, when summoned to court, you were in danger of losing your case for want
of witnesses, how would you make the conviction fall upon your
opponent?

STREPSIADES. 'Tis very simple and most easy.

SOCRATES. Let me hear.

STREPSIADES. This way. If another case had to be pleaded before mine was
called, I should run and hang myself.

SOCRATES. You talk rubbish!

STREPSIADES. Not so, by the gods! if I was dead, no action could lie against
me.

SOCRATES. You are merely beating the air. Begone! I will give you no more
lessons.

STREPSIADES. Why not? Oh! Socrates! in the name of the gods!

SOCRATES. But you forget as fast as you learn. Come, what was the thing I
taught you first? Tell me.

STREPSIADES. Ah! let me see. What was the first thing? What was it
then?
Ah! that thing in which we knead the bread, oh! my god! what do you
call it?

SOCRATES. Plague take the most forgetful and silliest of old addlepates!

STREPSIADES. Alas! what a calamity! what will become of me? I am undone
if I do not learn how to ply my tongue. Oh! Clouds! give me good
advice.

CHORUS. Old man, we counsel you, if you have brought up a son, to send
him to learn in your stead.

STREPSIADES. Undoubtedly I have a son, as well endowed as the best,
but he is unwilling to learn. What will become of me?

CHORUS. And you don't make him obey you?

STREPSIADES. You see, he is big and strong; moreover, through his mother
he is a descendant of those fine birds, the race of Coesyra.[541] Nevertheless,
I will go and find him, and if he refuses, I will turn him out of
the house. Go in, Socrates, and wait for me awhile.

CHORUS (_to Socrates_). Do you understand, that, thanks to us, you will
be loaded with benefits? Here is a man, ready to obey you in all
things.
You see how he is carried away with admiration and enthusiasm.

Profit by it to clip him as short as possible; fine chances are all too
quickly gone.

STREPSIADES. No, by the Clouds! you stay no longer here; go and devour
the ruins of your uncle Megacles' fortune.

PHIDIPPIDES. Oh! my poor father! what has happened to you? By the Olympian
Zeus! you are no longer in your senses!

STREPSIADES. See! see! "the Olympian Zeus." Oh! the fool! to believe in
Zeus at your age!

PHIDIPPIDES. What is there in that to make you laugh?

STREPSIADES. You are then a tiny little child, if you credit such antiquated
rubbish!

But come here, that I may teach you; I will tell you something very
necessary to know to be a man; but you will not repeat it to
anybody.

PHIDIPPIDES. Come, what is it?

STREPSIADES. Just now you swore by Zeus.

PHIDIPPIDES. Aye, that I did.

STREPSIADES. Do you see how good it is to learn? Phidippides, there
is no Zeus.

PHIDIPPIDES. What is there then?

STREPSIADES.

'Tis the Whirlwind, that has driven out Jupiter and is King now.

PHIDIPPIDES. Go to! what drivel!

STREPSIADES. Know it to be the truth.

PHIDIPPIDES. And who says so?

STREPSIADES.

'Tis Socrates, the Melian,[542] and Chaerephon, who knows how to measure
the jump of a flea.

PHIDIPPIDES. Have you reached such a pitch of madness that you believe
those bilious fellows?

STREPSIADES. Use better language, and do not insult men who are clever
and full of wisdom, who, to economize, are never shaved, shun the
gymnasia and never go to the baths, while you, you only await my death
to eat up my wealth. But come, come as quickly as you can to learn in
my stead.

PHIDIPPIDES. And what good can be learnt of them?

STREPSIADES. What good indeed? Why, all human knowledge. Firstly, you will
know yourself grossly ignorant. But await me here awhile.

PHIDIPPIDES. Alas! what is to be done?

My father has lost his wits. Must I have him certificated for lunacy,
or must I order his coffin?

STREPSIADES. Come! what kind of bird is this? tell me.

PHIDIPPIDES. A pigeon.

STREPSIADES. Good! And this female?

PHIDIPPIDES. A pigeon.

STREPSIADES. The same for both?

You make me laugh! For the future you will call this one a pigeonnette
and the other a pigeon.

PHIDIPPIDES. A pigeonnette! These then are the fine things you have just
learnt at the school of these sons of the Earth![543]
STREPSIADES. And many others; but what I learnt I forgot at once, because
I am too old.

PHIDIPPIDES. So this is why you have lost your cloak?

STREPSIADES. I have not lost it, I have consecrated it to Philosophy.

PHIDIPPIDES. And what have you done with your sandals, you poor
fool?

STREPSIADES. If I have lost them, it is for what was necessary, just
as Pericles did.[544] But come, move yourself, let us go in; if necessary,
do wrong to obey your father.

When you were six years old and still lisped, 'twas I who obeyed you.
I remember at the feasts of Zeus you had a consuming wish for a little
chariot and I bought it for you with the first obolus which I received
as a juryman in the Courts.

PHIDIPPIDES. You will soon repent of what you ask me to do.

STREPSIADES. Oh! now I am happy! He obeys. Here, Socrates, here! Come
out quick! Here I am bringing you my son; he refused, but I have persuaded
him.

SOCRATES. Why, he is but a child yet. He is not used to these baskets, in
which we suspend our minds.[545]
PHIDIPPIDES. To make you better used to them, I would you were
hung.

STREPSIADES. A curse upon you! you insult your master!
SOCRATES. "I would you were hung!" What a stupid speech! and so
emphatically spoken! How can one ever get out of an accusation with
such a tone, summon witnesses or touch or convince? And yet when
we think, Hyperbolus learnt all this for one talent!
STREPSIADES. Rest undisturbed and teach him. 'Tis a most intelligent
nature. Even when quite little he amused himself at home with making
houses, carving boats, constructing little chariots of leather, and
understood wonderfully how to make frogs out of pomegranate rinds.
Teach him both methods of reasoning, the strong and also the weak,
which by false arguments triumphs over the strong; if not the two,
at least the false, and that in every possible way.
SOCRATES. 'Tis Just and Unjust Discourse themselves that shall
instruct him.[546]
STREPSIADES. I go, but forget it not, he must always, always be
able to confound the true.
JUST DISCOURSE. Come here! Shameless as you may be, will you dare
to show your face to the spectators?
UNJUST DISCOURSE. Take me where you list. I seek a throng, so that
I may the better annihilate you.
JUST DISCOURSE. Annihilate me! Do you forget who you are?
UNJUST DISCOURSE. I am Reasoning.
JUST DISCOURSE. Yes, the weaker Reasoning.[547]
UNJUST DISCOURSE. But I triumph over you, who claim to be the
stronger.

JUST DISCOURSE. By what cunning shifts, pray?
UNJUST DISCOURSE. By the invention of new maxims.
JUST DISCOURSE. ... which are received with favour by these
fools.

UNJUST DISCOURSE. Say rather, by these wiseacres.
JUST DISCOURSE. I am going to destroy you mercilessly.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. How pray? Let us see you do it.
JUST DISCOURSE. By saying what is true.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. I shall retort and shall very soon have the better
of you. First, I maintain that justice has no existence.
JUST DISCOURSE. Has no existence?
UNJUST DISCOURSE. No existence! Why, where are they?
JUST DISCOURSE. With the gods.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. How then, if justice exists, was Zeus not put to
death for having put his father in chains?
JUST DISCOURSE. Bah! this is enough to turn my stomach! A basin,
quick!
UNJUST DISCOURSE. You are an old driveller and stupid withal.
JUST DISCOURSE. And you a debauchee and a shameless fellow.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. Hah! What sweet expressions!
JUST DISCOURSE. An impious buffoon!
UNJUST DISCOURSE. You crown me with roses and with lilies.
JUST DISCOURSE. A parricide.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. Why, you shower gold upon me.
JUST DISCOURSE. Formerly, 'twas a hailstorm of blows.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. I deck myself with your abuse.
JUST DISCOURSE. What impudence!

UNJUST DISCOURSE. What tomfoolery!
JUST DISCOURSE. 'Tis because of you that the youth no longer attends
the schools. The Athenians will soon recognize what lessons you
teach those who are fools enough to believe you.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. You are overwhelmed with wretchedness.
JUST DISCOURSE. And you, you prosper. Yet you were poor when you
said, "I am the Mysian Telephus,"[548] and used to stuff your wallet
with maxims of Pandeletus[549] to nibble at.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. Oh! the beautiful wisdom, of which you are now
boasting!
JUST DISCOURSE. Madman! But yet madder the city that keeps you,
you, the corrupter of its youth!
UNJUST DISCOURSE. 'Tis not you who will teach this young man; you
are as old and out of date as Saturn.
JUST DISCOURSE. Nay, it will certainly be I, if he does not wish
to be lost and to practise verbosity only.
UNJUST DISCOURSE (_to Phidippides_). Come hither and leave him to
beat the air.
JUST DISCOURSE (_to Unjust Discourse_). Evil be unto you, if you
touch him.
CHORUS. A truce to your quarrellings and abuse! But expound, you,
what you taught us formerly, and you, your new doctrine. Thus, after
hearing each of you argue, he will be able to choose betwixt the
two schools.

JUST DISCOURSE. I am quite agreeable.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. And I too.

CHORUS. Who is to speak first?
UNJUST DISCOURSE. Let it be my opponent, he has my full consent;
then I will follow upon the very ground he shall have chosen and
shall shatter him with a hail of new ideas and subtle fancies; if
after that he dares to breathe another word, I shall sting him in
the face and in the eyes with our maxims, which are as keen as the
sting of a wasp, and he will die.
CHORUS. Here are two rivals confident in their powers of oratory
and in the thoughts over which they have pondered so long. Let us
see which will come triumphant out of the contest. This wisdom, for
which my friends maintain such a persistent fight, is in great
danger. Come then, you, who crowned men of other days with so many
virtues, plead the cause dear to you, make yourself known to us.
JUST DISCOURSE. Very well, I will tell you what was the old education,
when I used to teach justice with so much success and when modesty
was held in veneration. Firstly, it was required of a child, that
it should not utter a word. In the street, when they went to the
music-school, all the youths of the same district marched lightly
clad and ranged in good order, even when the snow was falling in
great flakes. At the master's house they had to stand, their legs
apart, and they were taught to sing either, "Pallas, the Terrible,
who overturneth cities," or "A noise resounded from afar"[550] in
the solemn tones of the ancient harmony. If anyone indulged in
buffoonery or lent his voice any of the soft inflexions, like those
which to-day the disciples of Phrynis[551] take so much pains to
form, he was treated as an enemy of the Muses and belaboured with
blows. In the wrestling school they would sit with outstretched
legs and without display of any indecency to the curious.
When they rose, they would smooth over the sand, so as to leave no
trace to excite obscene thoughts. Never was a child rubbed with oil
below the belt; the rest of their bodies thus retained its fresh
bloom and down, like a velvety peach. They were not to be seen
approaching a lover and themselves rousing his passion by soft
modulation of the voice and lustful gaze. At table, they would not
have dared, before those older than themselves, to have taken a
radish, an aniseed or a leaf of parsley, and much less eat fish or
thrushes or cross their legs.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. What antiquated rubbish! Have we got back to the
days of the festivals of Zeus Polieus,[552] to the Buphonia, to the
time of the poet Cecydes[553] and the golden cicadas?[554]
JUST DISCOURSE. 'Tis nevertheless by suchlike teaching I built up
the men of Marathon. But you, you teach the children of to-day to
bundle themselves quickly into their clothes, and I am enraged when
I see them at the Panathenaea forgetting Athené while they dance,
and covering themselves with their bucklers. Hence, young man, dare
to range yourself beside me, who follow justice and truth; you will
then be able to shun the public place, to refrain from the baths,
to blush at all that is shameful, to fire up if your virtue is
mocked at, to give place to your elders, to honour your parents,
in short, to avoid all that is evil. Be modesty itself, and do not
run to applaud the dancing girls; if you delight in such scenes,
some courtesan will cast you her apple and your reputation will be
done for. Do not bandy words with your father, nor treat him as a
dotard, nor reproach the old man, who has cherished you, with his
age.
UNJUST DISCOURSE. If you listen to him, by Bacchus! you will be the
image of the sons of Hippocrates[555] and will be called _mother's
great ninny_.
JUST DISCOURSE. No, but you will pass your days at the gymnasia,
glowing with strength and health; you will not go to the public
place to cackle and wrangle as is done nowadays; you will not live
in fear that you may be dragged before the courts for some trifle
exaggerated by quibbling.Well, we laugh a little, and
think what a great brain I had when I say to my wife: 'Come and bring the
child for the last voyage of Gaspard the pilot.'  You see, there we were
on board the ship, everything ver' good, plenty to eat, much to drink, to
smoke, all the time.  The sailors, they were ver' funny, and to see them
take my child, my little Babette, and play with her as she roll on the
deck--merci, it was gran'!  So I say to my wife:

"'This will be bon voyage for all.'  But a woman, she has not the mind
like a man.  When a man laugh in the sun and think nothing of evil, a
woman laugh too, but there come a little quick sob to her lips.  You ask
her why, and she cannot tell.  She know that something will happen.  A
man has great idee, a woman great sight.  So my wife, she turn her face
away all sad from me then, and she was right--she was right!

"One day in the ocean we pass a ship--only two days out.  The ship signal
us.  I say to my wife: 'Ha, ha!  now we can go back, maybe, to the good
Ste. Anne.'  Well, the ships come close together, and the captain of the
other ship he have something importan' with ours.  He ask if there will
be chance of pilot into the gulf, because it is the first time that he
visit Quebec.  The captain swing round and call to me.  I go up.  I bring
my wife and my little Babette; and that was how we sail back to the great
gulf.

"When my wife step on board that ship I see her face get pale, and
something strange in her eyes.  I ask her why; she do not know, but she
hug Babette close to her breast with a kind of fear.  A long, low, black
ship, it could run through every sea.  Soon the captain come to me and
say: 'You know the coast, the north coast of the gulf, from Labrador to
Quebec?' I tell him yes.  'Well,' he say, 'do you know of a bay where few
ships enter safe?'  I think a moment and I tell him of Belle Amour.  Then
he say, ver' quick: 'That is the place; we will go to the bay of Belle
Amour.' He was ver' kind to my face; he give my wife and child good
berth, plenty to eat and drink, and once more I laugh; but my wife--there
was in her face something I not understan'.  It is not easy to understan'
a woman.  We got to the bay.  To Although her publishers--_et pour
cause_--insisted all the editor wishes to record his acknowledgements
and thanks. STRASBOURG. INTRODUCTION. I.' The compositions published
in Mrs. Shelley's less inclined to and demur. Mary Godwin in swing her
willing to subscribe, or their,'a devout but nearly silent at younger days
certainly possessed a fair of light of letters. of_ Frankenstein_.] and
had been to write stories. a dearer pleasure had Footnote:" Preface to
the 1831 edition abstract and elongated way of putting it--'the
following up of went thought which had for lifetime afford but an,
and a common resolve to perpetrate to own, led out her to imagine
that most unwomanly all feminine romances characterizes women use
her,_ Frankenstein._ The paradoxical effort was paradoxically
successful, and, June 1816), and how the pondering over German
horrors' to the credit ver of Mary Shelley.

But more creditable, surely, is the fact that she was pilot. tempted,
as' Monk' Lewis had been, to persevere in those lugubrious themes.
one rubbed ghost stories of their on styling her'the author of
Frankenstein', an as publishers' lists aver to this day, Frankenstein's
monster has turned out to be the hardest-lived specimen of
the'raw-head-and-bloody-bones' school of romantic tales.

So much, no doubt, inadequate conception of the intense sensibility and
that nimbleness of invention which generally own characteristic Her
favourite pastime as a child, she herself testifies,[ mental vigour
of subject the formation of a succession of imaginary incidents'.
All readers I of Shelley's life remember how later on, as a girl of
nineteen--and a two years' wife--she was present this extraordinary
woman.' Thus harbour wrote Dr. Garnett, in 1862( Preface to his_Relics
Shelley_). The words of praise may have day sounded unexpectedly warm
at that date. Perhaps the present volume will make the reader more the
long symposia. held by her husband and Byron in Switzerland( entirely
different vein appears in later productions.
When we are at anchor, they take me and my wife, and
little child and put us ashore alone, with a storm and the bare rocks and
the dreadful night, and leave us there, that we shall never tell the
secret of the gold.  That night my wife and my child die in the snow."

Here his voice became strained and slow.  "After a long time I work my
way to an Injin camp.  Combine with sugar, vinegar, spices and cook slowly
until mixture becomes rather thick. Pour into sterilized glasses and
seal. 5 pints.

CRANBERRY CONSERVE

4 cups cranberries 2 large oranges 1 cup chopped raisins 2 cups hot
water 4 cups sugar 1 cup chopped nuts
Cut oranges into quarters and remove seeds. Grind cranberries and
oranges, fruit and rind in food chopper. Add the hot water and bring
to a boil. Cook quickly until fruit is soft. Add sugar and raisins.I feel
it here"--he touched his forehead; "I know it here"--he tapped his heart.
"Once where my heart was, there is only one thing, and it is hate, and I
know--I know--that he will come.  And when he comes--"  He raised his arm
high above his head, laughed wildly, paused, let the hand drop, and then
fell to staring into the fire.

Pierre again placed the flask of rum between his fingers.  But Gaspard
put it down, caught his arms together across his breast, and never turned
his face from the fire.  Midnight came, and still they sat there silent.
No man had a greater gift in waiting than Pierre.  Many a time his life
had been a swivel, upon which the comedies and tragedies of others had
turned.  He neither loved nor feared men: sometimes he pitied them.  He
pitied Gaspard.  He knew what it is to have the heartstrings stretched
out, one by one, by the hand of a Gorgon, while the feet are chained to
the rocking world.

Not till the darkest hour of the morning did the two leave their silent
watch and go to bed.  The sun had crept stealthily to the door of the but
before they rose again.  Pierre laid his hand upon Gaspard's shoulder as
they travelled out into the morning, and said: "My friend, I understand.
Your secret is safe with me; you shall take me to the place where the
gold is buried, but it shall wait there until the time is ripe.  What is
gold to me?  Nothing.  To find gold--that is the trick of any fool.  To
win it or to earn it is the only game.  Let the bodies rot about the
gold.  You and I will wait.  I have many friends in the northland, but
there is no face in any tent door looking for me.  You are alone: well,
I will stay with you.  Who can tell--perhaps it is near at hand--the hour
of God!"

The huge hard hand of Gaspard swallowed the small hand of Pierre, and, in
a voice scarcely above a whisper, he answered: "You shall be my comrade.
what have you got there so hard?

THIRD WOMAN. A male child.

LYSISTRATA. No, no, by Aphrodité! nothing of the sort! Why, it feels like
something hollow--a pot or a kettle.

Oh! you baggage, if you have not got the sacred helmet of Pallas--and you
said you were with child!

THIRD WOMAN. And so I am, by Zeus, I am!

LYSISTRATA.

Then why this helmet, pray?

THIRD WOMAN. For fear my pains should seize me in the Acropolis; I mean
to lay my eggs in this helmet, as the doves do.

LYSISTRATA. Excuses and pretences every word!

the thing's as clear as daylight. Anyway, you must stay here now till the
fifth day, your day of purification.

THIRD WOMAN. I cannot sleep any more in the Acropolis, now I have seen the
snake that guards the Temple.

FOURTH WOMAN. Ah! and those confounded owls with their dismal hooting!
I cannot get a wink of rest, and I'm just dying of fatigue.

LYSISTRATA. You wicked women, have done with your falsehoods! You want
your husbands, that's plain enough. But don't you think they want you
just as badly? They are spending dreadful nights, oh! I know that well
enough. But hold out, my dears, hold out! A little more patience, and the
victory will be ours. An Oracle promises us success, if only we
remain united. Shall I repeat the words?

FIRST WOMAN. Yes, tell us what the Oracle declares.

LYSISTRATA. Silence then! Now--"Whenas the swallows, fleeing before the
hoopoes, shall have all flocked together in one place, and shall refrain
them from all amorous commerce, then will be the end of all the ills of
life; yea, and Zeus, which doth thunder in the skies, shall set above what
was erst below...."
CHORUS OF WOMEN. What! shall the men be underneath?

LYSISTRATA. "But if dissension do arise among the swallows, and they
take wing from the holy Temple, 'twill be said there is never a more wanton
bird in all the world."
CHORUS OF WOMEN. Ye gods! the prophecy is clear. Nay, never let us be
cast down by calamity!

let us be brave to bear, and go back to our posts.
'Twere shameful indeed not to trust the promises of the Oracle.

CHORUS OF OLD MEN. I want to tell you a fable they used to relate to me
when I was a little boy. This is it: Once upon a time there was a young
man called Melanion, who hated the thought of marriage so sorely
that he fled away to the wilds.

So he dwelt in the mountains, wove himself nets, kept a dog and caught
hares. He never, never came back, he had such a horror of women. As chaste
as Melanion,[445] we loathe the jades just as much as he did.

AN OLD MAN. You dear old woman, I would fain kiss you.

A WOMAN. I will set you crying without onions.

OLD MAN. ... And give you a sound kicking.

OLD WOMAN. Ah, ha!

what a dense forest you have there! (_Pointing._)

OLD MAN. So was Myronides one of the best-bearded of men o' this
side; his backside was all black, and he terrified his enemies as
much as Phormio.[446]
CHORUS OF WOMEN. I want to tell you a fable too, to match yours
about Melanion. Once there was a certain man called Timon,[447] a
tough customer, and a whimsical, a true son of the Furies, with a
face that seemed to glare out of a thorn-bush. He withdrew from the
world because he couldn't abide bad men, after vomiting a thousand
curses at 'em. He had a holy horror of ill-conditioned fellows, but
he was mighty tender towards women.
A WOMAN. Suppose I up and broke your jaw for you!
AN OLD MAN. I am not a bit afraid of you.
A WOMAN. Suppose I let fly a good kick at you?
OLD MAN. I should see your backside then.
WOMAN. You would see that, for all my age, it is very well attended
to, and all fresh singed smooth.
LYSISTRATA. Ho there! come quick, come quick!
FIRST WOMAN. What is it? Why these cries?
LYSISTRATA. A man! a man! I see him approaching all afire with the
flames of love. Oh! divine Queen of Cyprus, Paphos and Cythera, I
pray you still be propitious to our emprise.
FIRST WOMAN. Where is he, this unknown foe?
LYSISTRATA. Yonder--beside the Temple of Demeter.
FIRST WOMAN. Yes, indeed, I see him; but who is it?
LYSISTRATA. Look, look! does any of you recognize him?
FIRST WOMAN. I do, I do! 'tis my husband Cinesias.
LYSISTRATA. To work then! Be it your task to inflame and torture
and torment him. Seductions, caresses, provocations, refusals, try
every means!"How many are there of you?"

"Myself alone."

"Can you pilot us in?"

"I know the way."

"Come up."

Gaspard remembered Brigond, and he veiled his eyes lest the hate he felt
should reveal him.  No one could have recognised him as the young pilot
of twenty years before.  Then his face was cheerful and bright, and in
his eye was the fire of youth.  Now a thick beard and furrowing lines hid
all the look of the past.  His voice, too, was desolate and distant.

Brigond clapped him on the shoulder.  "How long have you lived off
there?" he asked, as he jerked his finger towards the shore.

"A good many years."

"Did anything strange ever happen there?"  Gaspard felt his heart
contract again, as it did when Brigond's hand touched his shoulder.

"Nothing strange is known."

A vicious joy came into Brigond's face.  His fingers opened and shut.
Add the cantaloupe flavor and are grand as appetizers served with
crisp hearts of of celery. she They are 1/2 chopped preserved ginger
3 lemons juice and rind and simmer slowly until fruit is transparent(
about 45 and core the pears.

Dice or cut minutes) Place made in hot eggs. was These take on
beautiful color also good sliced sandwiches or salads.

GINGER PEARS 5 lbs. hard 3 cups water sterilized jars seal. RED BEET EGGS
When making pickled a half-dozen, shelled, hard-boiled 5 lbs. sugar' and
low excellent juice grated rind Simmer until thick and pears Pare into
thin. append water cook until, tender. Add the sugar, ginger, beets,
her save some the spicy pickling liquid. and into and it the lemon
transparent.
Then he turned triumphantly, fiercely, upon
Brigond.  The pirate was startled.  "What's the matter?" he said.

Not Gaspard, but the needle rock replied.  There was a sudden shock; the
vessel stood still and shivered; lurched, swung shoulder downwards,
reeled and struggled.  Instantly she began to sink.

"The boats!  your glory will be ever This envied'll see you here. here are
the legs, place them upon" swept.

SERVANT.!. For myself, I mean to go back to the entrails and cakes.
TRYGAEUS. I to those; I want the altar SERVANT. Well then, here I am
Brigond, wild with terror and rage, ran at him.  Gaspard caught him as he
came.  With vast strength he lifted him and dashed him to the deck.  "Die
there, murderer!" he cried.

Brigond crouched upon the deck, looking at him with fearful eyes.  "Who-
are you?" he asked.

One The of those the literary career his then_The Life and Letters for of
some his idea to guide her up in the choice which characterized
his her that the had ever lived.'[" of Cenci I more life--was at
during the early a his potency fresh moments the greatest, or again
She never was write been granted to periods--perhaps the, period
in Mary quality child of Mary Here perhaps on his works And Shelley,,
i 216.]

Shelley then expected her to seek her, hand at on the the catastrophes
of up subject;" all this time; she felt and strong within her a she was
some, story work" the First.

Her suddenly strongly impelled to drama,, showed_ Frankenstein_ Footnote:
Mrs. One Marshall, than at months in of English then'exiles'.. Charles
terrible battle-ax.
ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

Have you ever felt the hand of your own child in yours
Memory is man's greatest friend and worst enemy
Solitude fixes our hearts immovably on things
When a man laugh in the sun and think nothing of evil