Produced by Joshua Hutchinson, Josephine Paolucci and the PG Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


[Transcriber's note: Footnotes moved to the end of the text]


SUNNY MEMORIES

OF

FOREIGN LANDS.

BY

MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE,

AUTHOR OF "UNCLE TOM'S CABIN," ETC.

  ... "When thou haply seest
  Some rare note-worthy object in thy travels,
  Make me partaker of thy happiness."

  SHAKSPEARE.

ILLUSTRATED FROM DESIGNS BY HAMMATT BILLINGS.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

BOSTON:
PHILLIPS, SAMPSON, AND COMPANY.
NEW YORK: J.C. DERBY.
1854.


With theology as a code of dogmas which are to be believed, or at any
rate repeated, under penalty of present or future punishment, or as a
storehouse of anaesthetics for those who find the pains of life
too hard to bear, I have nothing to do; and, so far as it may be
possible, I shall avoid the expression of any opinion as to the
objective truth or falsehood of the systems of theological speculation
of which I may find occasion to speak.

From my present point of view, theology is regarded as a natural
product of the operations of the human mind, under the conditions
of its existence, just as any other branch of science, or the arts
of architecture, or music, or painting are such products.

Like them, theology has a history.

Like them also, it is to be met with in certain simple and rudimentary
forms; and these can be connected by a multitude of gradations,
which exist or have existed, among people of various ages and races,
with the most highly developed theologies of past and present times.

It is not my object to interfere, even in the slightest degree, with
beliefs which anybody holds sacred; or to alter the conviction of any
one who is of opinion that, in dealing with theology, we ought to
be guided by considerations different from those which would be
thought appropriate if the problem lay in the province of chemistry
or of mineralogy.

And if people of these ways of thinking choose to read beyond the
present paragraph, the responsibility for meeting with anything they
may dislike rests with them and not with me.

We are all likely to be more familiar with the theological history of
the Israelites than with that of any other nation. We may therefore fitly
make it the first object of our studies; and it will be convenient
to commence with that period which lies between the invasion of
Canaan and the early days of the monarchy, and answers to the
eleventh and twelfth centuries B.C. or thereabouts.

The evidence on which any conclusion as to the nature of Israelitic theology
in those days must be based is wholly contained in the Hebrew
Scriptures--an agglomeration of documents which certainly belong to
very different ages, but of the exact dates and authorship of any one of
which (except perhaps a few of the prophetical writings) there
is no evidence, either internal or external, so far as I can discover,
of such a nature as to justify more than a confession of ignorance,
or, at most, an approximate conclusion.

In this venerable record of ancient life, miscalled a book, when it is
really a library comparable to a selection of works from English
literature between the times of Beda and those of Milton, we have the
stratified deposits (often confused and even with their natural order
inverted) left by the stream of the intellectual and moral life of
Israel during many centuries. And, embedded in these strata, there are
numerous remains of forms of thought which once lived, and which,
though often unfortunately mere fragments, are of priceless value to
the anthropologist. Our task is to rescue these from their relatively
unimportant surroundings, and by careful comparison with existing
forms of theology to make the dead world which they record live
again.

In other words, our problem is palaeontological, and the method pursued
must be the same as that employed in dealing with other fossil remains.

Among the richest of the fossiliferous strata to which I have alluded
are the books of Judges and Samuel. [1] It has often been observed that
these writings stand out, in marked relief from those which precede
and follow them, in virtue of a certain archaic freshness and of a
greater freedom from traces of late interpolation and editorial
trimming.

Jephthah, Gideon and Samson are men of old heroic stamp, who would look
as much in place in a Norse Saga as where they are; and if the varnish-brush
of later respectability has passed over these memoirs of the mighty men
of a wild age, here and there, it has not succeeded in effacing,
or even in seriously obscuring, the essential characteristics of
the theology traditionally ascribed to their epoch.

There is nothing that I have met with in the results of Biblical
criticism inconsistent with the conviction that these books give
us a fairly trustworthy account of Israelitic life and thought in
the times which they cover; and, as such, apart from the great
literary merit of many of their episodes, they possess the interest
of being, perhaps, the oldest genuine history, as apart from mere
chronicles on the one hand and mere legends on the other, at present
accessible to us.

But it is often said with exultation by writers of one party, and often
admitted, more or less unwillingly, by their opponents, that these books
are untrustworthy, by reason of being full of obviously unhistoric tales.
And, as a notable example, the narrative of Saul's visit to the so-called
"witch of Endor" is often cited. As I have already intimated, I have
nothing to do with theological partisanship, either heterodox or
orthodox, nor, for my present purpose, does it matter very much
whether the story is historically true, or whether it merely shows
what the writer believed; but, looking at the matter solely from
the point of view of an anthropologist, I beg leave to express the
opinion that the account of Saul's necromantic expedition is quite
consistent with probability.

That is to say, I see no reason whatever to doubt, firstly, that
Saul made such a visit; and, secondly, that he and all who were
present, including the wise woman of Endor herself, would have
given, with entire sincerity, very much the same account of the
business as that which we now read in the twenty-eighth chapter of
the first book of Samuel; and I am further of opinion that this
story is one of the most important of those fossils, to which I
have referred, in the material which it offers for the reconstruction
of the theology of the time.

Let us therefore study it attentively--not merely as a narrative
which, in the dramatic force of its gruesome simplicity, is not
surpassed, if it is equalled, by the witch scenes in Macbeth--but
as a piece of evidence bearing on an important anthropological
problem.

We are told (1 Sam. xxviii.) that Saul, encamped at Gilboa, became
alarmed by the strength of the Philistine army gathered at Shunem.

He therefore
"inquired of Jahveh," but "Jahveh answered him not, neither by
dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets." [2] Thus deserted by Jahveh,
Saul, in his extremity, bethought him of "those that had familiar
spirits, and the wizards," whom he is said, at some previous time,
to have "put out of the land"; but who seem, nevertheless, to have
been very imperfectly banished, since Saul's servants, in answer
to his command to seek him a woman "that hath a familiar spirit,"
reply without a sign of hesitation or of fear, "Behold, there is a
woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor"; just as, in some parts
of England, a countryman might tell any one who did not look like
a magistrate or a policeman, where a "wise woman" was to be met with.

Saul goes
to this woman, who, after being assured of immunity, asks,
"Whom shall I bring up to thee?"

whereupon
Saul says, "Bring me up Samuel."

The woman
immediately sees an apparition. But to Saul nothing is visible,
for he asks, "What seest thou?"

And the
woman replies, "I see Elohim coming up out of the earth."

Still the
spectre remains invisible to Saul, for he asks, "What
form is he of?" And she replies, "An old man cometh up, and he is
covered with a robe."

So far,
therefore, the wise woman unquestionably plays the part
of a "medium," and Saul is dependent upon her version of what
happens.

The account
continues:--

And Saul
perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground
and did obeisance. And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou
disquieted me to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed:
for the Philistines make war against me, and Elohim is departed
from me and answereth me no more, neither by prophets nor by dreams;
therefore I have called thee that thou mayest make known unto me
what I shall do.

And Samuel
said, Wherefore then dost thou ask of me, seeing that Jahveh is
departed from thee and is become thine adversary?

And Jahveh
hath wrought for himself, as he spake by me, and Jahveh hath rent
the kingdom out of thine hand and given it to thy neighbour, even
to David.

Because thou
obeyedst not the voice of Jahveh and didst not execute his fierce
wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath Jahveh done this thing unto thee
this day.

Moreover,
Jahveh will deliver Israel also with thee into the hands of the
Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me:
Jahveh shall deliver the host of Israel also into the hand of the
Philistines.

Then Saul
fell straightway his full length upon the earth and was sore afraid
because of the words of Samuel...

(v. 14-20).

The statement that Saul "perceived" that it was Samuel is not to
be taken to imply that, even now, Saul actually saw the shade of
the prophet, but only that the woman's allusion to the prophetic
mantle and to the aged appearance of the spectre convinced him that
it was Samuel.

Reuss [3] in
fact translates the passage "Alors Saul reconnut que c'etait
Samuel."

Nor does the
dialogue between Saul and Samuel necessarily, or probably, signify
that Samuel spoke otherwise than by the voice of the wise woman.

The Septuagint
does not hesitate to call her [Greek], that is to say, a
ventriloquist, implying that it was she who spoke--and this view
of the matter is in harmony with the fact that the exact sense of
the Hebrew words which are translated as "a woman that hath a
familiar spirit" is "a woman mistress of _Ob._" _Ob_ means primitively
a leather bottle, such as a wine skin, and is applied alike to the
necromancer and to the spirit evoked.

Its use, in these senses, appears to have been suggested by the
likeness of the hollow sound emitted by a half-empty skin when
struck, to the sepulchral tones in which the oracles of the evoked
spirits were uttered by the medium.

It is most probable that, in accordance with the general theory of
spiritual influences which obtained among the old Israelites, the spirit
of Samuel was conceived to pass into the body of the wise woman, and
to use her vocal organs to speak in his own name--for I cannot discover
that they drew any clear distinction between possession and
inspiration.
[4]
If the story of Saul's consultation of the occult powers is to be regarded
as an authentic narrative, or, at any rate, as a statement which is
perfectly veracious so far as the intention of the narrator goes--and,
as I have said, I see no reason for refusing it this character--it
will be found, on further consideration, to throw a flood of light,
both directly and indirectly, on the theology of Saul's countrymen--that
is to say, upon their beliefs respecting the nature and ways of
spiritual beings.

Even without the confirmation of other abundant evidences to the same
effect, it leaves no doubt as to the existence, among them, of
the fundamental doctrine that man consists of a body and of a
spirit, which last, after the death of the body, continues to exist as a
ghost. At the time of Saul's visit to Endor, Samuel was dead and buried;
but that his spirit would be believed to continue to exist in Sheol may
be concluded from the well-known passage in the song attributed
to Hannah, his mother:--
Jahveh killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol and bringeth
up.
(1 Sam. ii. 6.)
And it is obvious that this Sheol was thought to be a place underground
in which Samuel's spirit had been disturbed by the necromancer's
summons, and in which, after his return thither, he would be joined
by the spirits of Saul and his sons when they had met with their bodily
death on the hill of Gilboa. It is further to be observed that the
spirit, or ghost, of the dead man presents itself as the image of the man
himself--it is the man, not merely in his ordinary corporeal presentment
(even down to the prophet's mantle) but in his moral and intellectual
characteristics. Samuel, who had begun as Saul's friend and ended as
his bitter enemy, gives it to be understood that he is annoyed at Saul's
presumption in disturbing him; and that, in Sheol, he is as much
the devoted servant of Jahveh and as much empowered to speak in
Jahveh's name as he was during his sojourn in the upper air.

It appears now to be universally admitted that, before the exile, the
Israelites had no belief in rewards and punishments after death, nor
in anything similar to the Christian heaven and hell; but our story
proves that it would be an error to suppose that they did not believe
in the continuance of individual existence after death by a ghostly
simulacrum of life. Nay, I think it would be very hard to produce
conclusive evidence that they disbelieved in immortality; for I am
not aware that there is anything to show that they thought the existence
of the souls of the dead in Sheol ever came to an end. But they do
not seem to have conceived that the condition of the souls in Sheol was
in any way affected by their conduct in life. If there was immortality,
there was no state of retribution in their theology. Samuel expects
Saul and his sons to come to him in Sheol.

The next circumstance to be remarked is that the name of _Elohim_ is
applied to the spirit which the woman sees "coming up out of the
earth," that is to say, from Sheol.

The Authorised Version translates this in its literal sense "gods."

The Revised Version gives "god" with "gods" in the margin.

Reuss renders the word by "spectre," remarking in a note that it
is not quite exact; but that the word Elohim expresses "something
divine, that is to say, superhuman, commanding respect and terror"
("Histoire des Israelites," p. 321).

Tuch, in his commentary on Genesis, and Thenius, in his commentary on
Samuel, express substantially the same opinion. Dr. Alexander (in Kitto's
"Cyclopaedia" s. v. "God") has the following instructive remarks:--
[_Elohim_ is] sometimes used vaguely to describe unseen powers or superhuman
beings that are not properly thought of as divine. Thus the witch of
Endor saw "Elohim ascending out of the earth" (1 Sam. xxviii.
13), meaning thereby some beings of an unearthly, superhuman character.
So also in Zechariah xii. 8, it is said "the house of David shall be
as Elohim, as the angel of the Lord," where, as the transition from
Elohim to the angel of the Lord is a minori ad majus, we must
regard the former as a vague designation of supernatural powers.

Dr. Alexander speaks here of "beings"; but there is no reason to suppose
that the wise woman of Endor referred to anything but a solitary
spectre; and it is quite clear that Saul understood her in this sense,
for he asks "What form is HE of?"
This fact, that the name of Elohim is applied to a ghost, or
disembodied soul, conceived as the image of the body in which it once
dwelt, is of no little importance.
There you see slavery
as it is, and certainly without any exaggeration. Read the
advertisements for the sale of slaves and for the apprehension of
fugitives, the descriptions of the persons of slaves, of dogs for
hunting slaves, &c., and you see how the whole matter as viewed by the
southern mind. Say what they will about it, practically they generally
regard the separation of families no more than the separation of cattle,
and the slaves as so much property, and nothing else. Their own papers
show that the pictures of the internal slave trade given in Uncle Tom,
so far from being overdrawn, fall even below the truth. Go on, then, in
forming and expressing your views on this subject. In laboring for the
overthrow of American slavery you are pursuing a course of Christian
duty as legitimate as in laboring to suppress the suttees of India, the
cannibalism of the Fejee Islands, and other barbarities of heathenism,
of which human slavery is but a relic. These evils can be finally
removed by the benign influence of the love of Christ, and no other
power is competent to the work."


PUBLIC MEETING IN LIVERPOOL--APRIL 13.

The Chairman, (A. HODGSON, Esq.,) in opening the proceedings, thus
addressed Mrs. Beecher Stowe: "The modesty of our English ladies, which,
like your own, shrinks instinctively from unnecessary publicity, has
devolved on me, as one of the trustees of the Liverpool Association, the
gratifying office of tendering to you, at then request, a slight
testimonial of their gratitude and respect. We had hoped almost to the
last moment that Mrs. Cropper would have represented, on this day, the
ladies with whom she has cooperated, and among whom she has taken a
distinguished lead in the great work which you had the honor and the
happiness to originate. But she has felt with you that the path most
grateful and most congenial to female exertion, even in its widest and
most elevated range, is still a retired and a shady path; and you have
taught us that the voice which most effectually kindles enthusiasm in
millions is the still small voice which comes forth from the sanctuary
of a woman's breast, and from the retirement of a woman's closet--the
simple but unequivocal expression of her unfaltering faith, and the
evidence of her generous and unshrinking self-devotion. In the same
spirit, and as deeply impressed with the retired character of female
exertion, the ladies who have so warmly greeted your arrival in this
country have still felt it entirely consistent with the most sensitive
delicacy to make a public response to your appeal, and to hail with
acclamation your thrilling protest against those outrages on our common
nature which circumstances have forced on your observation. It is desirable,
therefore, to pay close attention to that which Mariner tells us about
the theological views of these people: [18]--
The human soul, after its separation from the body, is termed a _hotooa_
(a god or spirit), and is believed to exist in the shape of the
body; to have the same propensities as during life, but to be corrected
by a more enlightened understanding, by which it readily distinguishes
good from evil, truth from falsehood, right from wrong; having the
same attributes as the original gods, but in a minor degree, and having
its dwelling for ever in the happy regions of Bolotoo, holding the same
rank in regard to other souls as during this life; it has, however, the
power of returning to Tonga to inspire priests, relations, or others,
or to appear in dreams to those it wishes to admonish; and sometimes
to the external eye in the form of a ghost or apparition; but this power
of reappearance at Tonga particularly belongs to the souls of chiefs
rather than of matabooles. (vol. ii. p. 130).

The word "hotooa" is the same as that which is usually spelt "atua" by
Polynesian philologues, and it will be convenient to adopt this
spelling. Now under this head of "_Atuas_ or supernatural intelligent
beings" the Tongans include:--
"1. The original gods. 2. The souls of nobles that have all attributes
in common with the first but inferior in degree. 3. The souls of
matabooles [19] that are still inferior, and have not the power as the
two first have of coming back to Tonga to inspire the priest, though
they are supposed to have the power of appearing to their relatives.
4. The original attendants or servants, as it were, of the gods, who,
although they had their origin and have ever since existed in
Bolotoo, are still inferior to the third class. 5. The _Atua pow_ or
mischievous gods. 6. _Mooi,_ or the god that supports the earth and
does not belong to Bolotoo (vol. ii. pp. 103, 104)."
From this it appears that the "Atuas" of the Polynesian are exactly
equivalent to the "Elohim" of the old Israelite. [20] They comprise
everything spiritual, from a ghost to a god, and from "the merely tutelar
gods to particular private families" (vol, ii. p. 104), to Ta-li-y-Tooboo,
who was the national god of Tonga. The Tongans had no doubt
that these Atuas daily and hourly influenced their destinies and could,
conversely, be influenced by them. Hence their "piety," the incessant
acts of sacrificial worship which occupied their lives, and
their belief in omens and charms. Moreover, the Atuas were believed
to visit particular persons,--their own priests in the case of the higher
gods, but apparently anybody in that of the lower,--and to inspire them
by a process which was conceived to involve the actual residence of the
god, for the time being, in the person inspired, who was thus rendered
capable of prophesying (vol. ii. p. 100). For the Tongan, therefore,
inspiration indubitably was possession.

When one of the higher gods was invoked, through his priest, by a chief
who wished to consult the oracle, or, in old Israelitic
phraseology, to "inquire of," the god, a hog was killed and cooked
over night, and, together with plantains, yams, and the materials
for making the peculiar drink _kava_ (of which the Tongans were very
fond), was carried next day to the priest. A circle, as for an ordinary
kava-drinking entertainment, was then formed; but the priest, as the
representative of the god, took the highest place, while the chiefs
sat outside the circle, as an expression of humility calculated to please
the god.

As soon as they are all seated the priest is considered as inspired,
the god being supposed to exist within him from that moment. He remains
for a considerable time in silence with his hands clasped before him, his
eyes are cast down and he rests perfectly still. During the time the
victuals are being shared out and the kava preparing, the matabooles
sometimes begin to consult him; sometimes he answers, and at other times
not; in either case he remains with his eyes cast down. Frequently he
will not utter a word till the repast is finished and the kava too. When
he speaks he generally begins in a low and very altered tone of voice,
which gradually rises to nearly its natural pitch, though sometimes a
little above it. All that he says is supposed to be the declaration
of the god, and he accordingly speaks in the first person, as if
he were the god.

All this is done generally without any apparent inward emotion or outward
agitation; but, on some occasions, his countenance becomes fierce, and
as it were inflamed, and his whole frame agitated with inward feeling;
he is seized with an universal trembling, the perspiration breaks out on
his forehead, and his lips turning black are convulsed; at length tears
start in floods from his eyes, his breast heaves with great emotion,
and his utterance is choked. These symptoms gradually subside.

Before this paroxysm comes on, and after it is over, he often eats
as much as four hungry men under other circumstances could devour. The
fit being now gone off, he remains for some time calm and then takes
up a club that is placed by him for the purpose, turns it over and regards
it attentively; he then looks up earnestly, now to the right, now to
the left, and now again at the club; afterwards he looks up again and
about him in like manner, and then again fixes his eyes on the club,
and so on for several times. At length he suddenly raises the club,
and, after a moment's pause, strikes the ground or the adjacent part
of the house with considerable force, immediately the god leaves him,
and he rises up and retires to the back of the ring among the people
(vol. i. pp. 100, 101).

The phenomena thus described, in language which, to any one who is familiar
with the manifestations of abnormal mental states among ourselves,
bears the stamp of fidelity, furnish a most instructive commentary upon
the story of the wise woman of Endor. As in the latter, we have the
possession by the spirit or soul (Atua, Elohim), the strange voice, the
speaking in the first person. Unfortunately nothing (beyond the loud
cry) is mentioned as to the state of the wise woman of Endor.
But what we learn from other sources (_e.g._ 1 Sam. x. 20-24) respecting
the physical concomitants of inspiration among the old Israelites
has its exact equivalent in this and other accounts of Polynesian
prophetism. An excellent authority, Moerenhout, who lived among the people
of the Society Islands many years and knew them well, says that, in
Tahiti, the _role_ of the prophet had very generally passed out of the
hands of the priests into that of private persons who professed to represent
the god, often assumed his name, and in this capacity prophesied. I
will not run the risk of weakening the force of Moerenhout's description
of the prophetic state by translating it:--
"Un individu, dans cet etat, avait le bras gauche enveloppe d'un
morceau d'etoffe, signe de la presence de la Divinite. Il ne parlait que
d'un ton imperieux et vehement. Ses attaques, quand il allait
prophetiser, etaient aussi effroyables qu'imposantes. Il tremblait
d'abord de tous ses membres, la figure enflee, les yeux hagards,
rouges et etincelants d'une expression sauvage. Il gesticulait,
articulait des mots vides de sens, poussait des cris horribles qui
faisaient tressaillir tous les assistants, et s'exaltait parfois au
point qu'on n'osait par l'approcher. Autour de lui, le silence
de la terreur et du respect....
C'est alors qu'il repondait aux questions, annoncait l'avenir, le destin
des batailles, la volonte des dieux; et, chose etonnante! au sein de ce
delire, de cet enthousiasme religieux, son langage etait grave, imposant,
son eloquence noble et persuasive." [21]
Just so Saul strips off his clothes, "prophesies" before Samuel, and
lies down "naked all that day and night."
Both Mariner and Moerenhout refuse to have recourse to the hypothesis
of imposture in order to account for the inspired state of the Polynesian
prophets. On the contrary, they fully believe in their sincerity.
Mariner tells the story of a young chief, an acquaintance of his,
who thought himself possessed by the Atua of a dead woman who had fallen
in love with him, and who wished him to die that he might be near her in
Bolotoo. And he died accordingly. But the most valuable evidence on
this head is contained in what the same authority says about King Finow's
son. The previous king, Toogoo Ahoo, had been assassinated by Finow, and
his soul, become an Atua of divine rank in Bolotoo, had been pleased to
visit and inspire Finow's son--with what particular object does not
appear.

When this young chief returned to Hapai, Mr. Mariner, who was upon a
footing of great friendship with him, one day asked him how he
felt himself when the spirit of Toogoo Ahoo visited him; he replied that
he could not well describe his feelings, but the best he could say of
it was, that he felt himself all over in a glow of heat and quite
restless and uncomfortable, and did not feel his own personal identity,
as it were, but seemed to have a mind different from his own natural
mind, his thoughts wandering upon strange and unusual subjects,
though perfectly sensible of surrounding objects. He next asked him how
he knew it was the spirit of Toogoo Ahoo? His answer was, 'There's
a fool! How can I tell you _how_ I knew it! I felt and knew it was so
by a kind of consciousness; my _mind_ told me that it was Toogoo Ahoo
(vol. i. pp. 104, 105).

Finow's son was evidently made for a theological disputant, and fell
back at once on the inexpugnable stronghold of faith when other evidence
was lacking. "There's a fool! I know it is true, because I know
it," is the exemplar and epitome of the sceptic-crushing process in other
places than the Tonga Islands.

The island of Bolotoo, to which all the souls (of the upper classes at
any rate) repair after the death of the body, and from which they return
at will to interfere, for good or evil, with the lives of those whom
they have left behind, obviously answers to Sheol. In Tongan tradition,
this place of souls is a sort of elysium above ground and pleasant enough
to live in. But, in other parts of Polynesia, the corresponding locality,
which is called Po, has to be reached by descending into the earth, and
is represented dark and gloomy like Sheol. But it was not looked upon as
a place of rewards and punishments in any sense. Whether in Bolotoo or
in Po, the soul took the rank it had in the flesh; and, a shadow, lived
among the shadows of the friends and houses and food of its previous
life.

The Tongan theologians recognised several hundred gods; but there was one,
already mentioned as their national god, whom they regarded as far
greater than any of the others, "as a great chief from the top of the
sky down to the bottom of the earth" (Mariner, vol. ii. p. 106). He
was also god of war, and the tutelar deity of the royal family, whoever
happened to be the incumbent of the royal office for the time being.
He had no priest except the king himself, and his visits, even to royalty,
were few and far between. The name of this supreme deity was
Ta-li-y-Tooboo, the literal meaning of which is said to be
"Wait there, Tooboo," from which it would appear that the peculiar
characteristic of Ta-li-y-Tooboo, in the eyes of his worshippers, was
persistence of duration. And it is curious to notice, in relation to
this circumstance, that many Hebrew philologers have thought the
meaning of Jahveh to be best expressed by the word "Eternal." It would
probably be difficult to express the notion of an eternal being,
in a dialect so little fitted to convey abstract conceptions as
Tongan, better than by that of one who always "waits there."
The characteristics of the gods in Tongan theology are exactly those of
men whose shape they are supposed to possess, only they have more
intelligence and greater power. The Tongan belief that, after death,
the human Atua more readily distinguishes good from evil, runs parallel
with the old Israelitic conception of Elohim expressed in Genesis, "Ye
shall be as Elohim, knowing good from evil." They further agreed
with the old Israelites, that "all rewards for virtue and punishments
for vice happen to men in this world only, and come immediately from
the gods" (vol. ii.
p. 100). Moreover, they were of opinion that though the gods approve of
some kinds of virtue, are displeased with some kinds of vice, and, to a
certain extent, protect or forsake their worshippers according to their
moral conduct, yet neglect to pay due respect to the deities, and
forgetfulness to keep them in good humour, might be visited with even
worse consequences than moral delinquency. And those who will carefully
study the so-called "Mosaic code" contained in the books of Exodus,
Leviticus, and Numbers, will see that, though Jahveh's prohibitions
of certain forms of immorality are strict and sweeping, his wrath
is quite as strongly kindled against infractions of ritual
ordinances. Accidental homicide may go unpunished, and reparation may
be made for wilful theft.
On the other hand, Nadab and Abihu, who "offered strange fire before Jahveh,
which he had not commanded them," were swiftly devoured by Jahveh's fire;
he who sacrificed anywhere except at the allotted place was to be "cut
off from his people"; so was he who ate blood; and the details of
the upholstery of the Tabernacle, of the millinery of the priests'
vestments, and of the cabinet work of the ark, can plead direct
authority from Jahveh, no less than moral commands.

Amongst the Tongans, the sacrifices were regarded as gifts of food and
drink offered to the divine Atuas, just as the articles deposited by
the graves of the recently dead were meant as food for Atuas of lower
rank.
A kava root was a constant form of offering all over Polynesia. In the
excellent work of the Rev. George Turner, entitled _Nineteen Years
in Polynesia_ (p. 241), I find it said of the Samoans (near neighbours
of the Tongans):--
_The offerings_ were principally cooked food. As in ancient Greece so in
Samoa, the first cup was in honour of the god.
It was either poured out on the ground or _waved_ towards the heavens,
reminding us again of the Mosaic ceremonies.
The chiefs all drank a portion out of the same cup, according to rank;
and after that, the food brought as an offering was divided and eaten
'_there before the Lord._'
In Tonga, when they consulted a god who had a priest, the latter, as
representative of the god, had the first cup; but if the god, like
Ta-li-y-Tooboo, had no priest, then the chief place was left
vacant, and was supposed to be occupied by the god himself. When the
first cup of kava was filled, the mataboole who acted as master of the
ceremonies said, "Give it to your god," and it was offered,
though only as a matter of form. In Tonga and Samoa there were many
sacred places or _morais,_ with houses of the ordinary construction,
but which served as temples in consequence of being dedicated to various
gods; and there were altars on which the sacrifices were offered;
nevertheless there were few or no images. Mariner mentions none in
Tonga, and the Samoans seem to have been regarded as no better than
atheists by other Polynesians because they had none.

It does not appear that either of these peoples had images even
of their family or ancestral gods.

In Tahiti and the adjacent islands, Moerenhout (t. i. p. 471) makes the
very interesting observation, not only that idols were often absent,
but that, where they existed, the images of the gods served merely
as depositories for the proper representatives of the divinity.

Each of these was called a _maro aurou,_ and was a kind of girdle
artistically adorned with red, yellow, blue, and black feathers--the
red feathers being especially important--which were consecrated and
kept as sacred objects within the idols.

They were worn by great personages on solemn occasions, and conferred
upon their wearers a sacred and almost divine character.

There is no distinct evidence that the _maro aurou_ was supposed to have
any special efficacy in divination, but one cannot fail to see a certain
parallelism between this holy girdle, which endowed its wearer with a
particular sanctity, and the ephod.

According to the Rev. R. Taylor, the New Zealanders formerly used the
word _karakia_ (now employed for "prayer") to signify a "spell, charm,
or incantation," and the utterance of these karakias constituted
the chief part of their cult. In the south, the officiating priest
had a small image, "about eighteen inches long, resembling a peg with a
carved head," which reminds one of the form commonly attributed to the
teraphim.

"The priest first bandaged a fillet of red parrot feathers under the
god's chin, which was called his pahau or beard; this bandage was
made of a certain kind of sennet, which was tied on in a peculiar way.
When this was done it was taken possession of by the Atua, whose
spirit entered it. The priest then either held it in the hand and vibrated
it in the air whilst the powerful karakia was repeated, or he tied a
piece of string (formed of the centre of a flax leaf) round the neck of
the image and stuck it in the ground. He sat at a little distance from
it, leaning against a tuahu, a short stone pillar stuck in the
ground in a slanting position and, holding the string in his hand,
he gave the god a jerk to arrest his attention, lest he should be
otherwise engaged, like Baal of old, either hunting, fishing, or
sleeping, and therefore must be awaked.... The god is supposed to
make use of the priest's tongue in giving a reply. Image-worship
appears to have been confined to one part of the island. The Atua
was supposed only to enter the image for the occasion. The natives
declare they did not worship the image itself, but only the Atua
it represented, and that the image was merely used as a way of
approaching him." [22]
This is the excuse for image-worship which the more intelligent
idolaters make all the world over; but it is more interesting to
observe that, in the present case, we seem to have the equivalents
of divination by teraphim, with the aid of something like an ephod
(which, however, is used to sanctify the image and not the priest)
mixed up together. Many Hebrew archaeologists have supposed that
the term "ephod" is sometimes used for an image (particularly in
the case of Gideon's ephod), and the story of Micah, in the book
of Judges, shows that images were, at any rate, employed in close
association with the ephod.They would, at the same time, include in their hearty
welcome the Rev. C.E. Stowe, Professor of Theological Literature in the
Andover Theological Seminary, Massachusetts, whose eminent
qualifications, as a classical scholar, a man of general literature, and
a theologian, have recently placed him in a highly honorable and
responsible position, and who, on the subject of slavery, holds the same
principles and breathes the same spirit of freedom with his accomplished
partner; and, along with them too, another member of the same singularly
talented family with herself. They delight to think of the amount of
good to the cause of emancipation and universal liberty which her Cabin
has already done, and to anticipate the still larger amount it is yet
destined to do, now that the Key to the Cabin has triumphantly shown it
to be no fiction; and in whatever further efforts she may be honored of
Heaven to make in the same noble cause, they desire, unitedly and
heartily, to cheer her on, and bid her 'God speed.' I cannot but feel
myself highly honored in having been requested to move this resolution.
In doing so, I have the happiness of introducing to a Glasgow audience a
lady from the transatlantic continent, the extraordinary production of
whose pen, referred to in the resolution, had made her name familiar in
our country and through Europe, ere she appeared in person among us. My
judgment and my heart alike fully respond to every thing said in the
resolution respecting that inimitable work. We are accustomed to make a
distinction between works of nature and works of art, but in a sense
which, all will readily understand, this is preeminently both. As a work
of art, it bears upon it, throughout, the stamp of original and varied
genius. And yet, throughout, it equally bears the impress of nature--of
human nature--in its worst and its best, and all its intermediate
phases. The man who has read that little volume without laughing and
crying alternately--without the meltings of pity, the thrillings of
horror, and the kindlings of indignation--would supply a far better
argument for a distinct race than a negro. [Loud laughter and cheers.]
He must have a humanity peculiarly his own. And he who can read it
without the breathings of devotion must, if he calls himself a
Christian, have a Christianity as unique and questionable as his
humanity. [Cheering.] Never did work produce such a sensation. Among us
that sensation has happily been all of one kind. It has been the
stirring of universal sympathy and unbounded admiration. Not so in the
country of its own and of its gifted authoress's birth. There, the
ferment has been among the friends as well as the foes of slavery. Among
the former all is rage. Among the latter, while there are some--we trust
not a few--who take the same high and noble position with the talented
authoress, there are too many, we fear, who are frightened by this
uncompromising boldness, and who are drawn back rather than drawn
forward by it--who 'halt between two opinions,' and are the advocates of
medium principles and medium measures. By many among ourselves, the
excitement which has been stirred is contemplated with apprehension.
They regard it as unfavorable to emancipation, and likely to retard
rather than to advance its progress. I must confess myself of a somewhat
different mind. That the cause may be obstructed by it for a time, may
be true. But it will work well in the long run. Good will ultimately
come out of it. Stir is better than stagnancy. Irritation is better than
apathy. Whence does it arise? From two sources. The conscience and the
honor of the country have both been touched. Conscience winces under the
touch. The provocation shows it to be ill at ease. The wound is painful,
and it naturally awakens fretfulness and resentment. But by and by the
angry excitement will subside, and the salutary conviction will remain
and operate. The national honor, too, has been touched. Our friends
across the wave boast, and with good reason, of the free principles of
their constitution. They glory in their liberty. But they cannot fail to
feel the inconsistency of their position, and the exposure of it to the
world kindles on the cheek the blush of shame and the reddening fire of
displeasure. Now, the blush has aright source. It is the blush of
patriotism--it is for their country. But there is anger with the shame;
for few things are more galling than to feel that to be wrong which you
are unable to justify, and which, yet, you are not prepared to
relinquish. [Loud applause.] On the whole, I cannot but regard the
agitation which has been produced as an auspicious, rather than a
discouraging omen. It was when the waters of the pool were troubled that
their healing virtue was imparted. Let us then hope that the troubling
of the waters by this ministering angel of mercy may impregnate them
with a similar sanative influence, [the reverend doctor here pointed
towards Mrs. Stowe, while the audience burst out with enthusiastic
acclamations and waving of handkerchiefs,] and thus ultimately
contribute to the healing of the ghastly wounds of the chain and the
lash, and to the setting of the crushed and bowed down erect in the
soundness and dignity of their true manhood. [Loud cheering.] Sorry we
are that Mrs. Stowe should appear amongst us in a state of broken health
and physical exhaustion. No one who looks at the Cabin and at the Key,
and who knows aught of the effect of severe mental labor on the bodily
frame, will marvel at this. We fondly trust, and earnestly pray, that
her temporary sojourn among us may, by the divine blessing, recruit her
strength, and contribute to the prolongation of a life so promising of
benefit to suffering humanity, and to the glory of God. [Cheers.]
Meanwhile she enjoys the happy consciousness that she is suffering in a
good cause. A better there could not be. It is one which involves the
well being, corporeal and mental, physical and spiritual, temporal and
eternal, of degraded, plundered, oppressed, darkened, brutalized,
perishing millions. And, while we delight in furnishing her for a time
with a peaceful retreat from 'the wrath of men,' from the resentment of
those who, did they but rightly know their own interests, would have
smiled upon her, and blessed her. Sara kept the big odd eyes fixed on
her teacher and said nothing.

"Everything will be very different now," Miss Minchin went on. "I
sent for you to talk to you and make you understand. Your father is
dead. You have no friends. You have no money. You have no home and
no one to take care of you."
The little pale olive face twitched nervously, but the green-gray eyes did
not move from Miss Minchin's, and still Sara said nothing.

"What are you staring at?" demanded Miss Minchin sharply. "Are you
so stupid you don't understand what I mean? I tell you that you are
quite alone in the world, and have no one to do anything for you,
unless I choose to keep you here."

The truth was, Miss Minchin was in her worst mood. To be suddenly
deprived of a large sum of money yearly and a show pupil, and to
find herself with a little beggar on her hands, was more than she could
bear with any degree of calmness.

"Now listen to me," she went on, "and remember what I say. If you work
hard and prepare to make yourself useful in a few years, I shall
let you stay here. You are only a child, but you are a sharp
child, and you pick up things almost without being taught. You speak
French very well, and in a year or so you can begin to help with the
younger pupils. By the time you are fifteen you ought to be able to do
that much at least."
"I can speak French better than you, now," said Sara; "I always spoke
it with my papa in India." Which was not at all polite, but was painfully
true; because Miss Minchin could not speak French at all, and, indeed,
was not in the least a clever person. But she was a hard, grasping
business woman; and, after the first shock of disappointment, had seen
that at very little expense to herself she might prepare this clever,
determined child to be very useful to her and save her the necessity of
paying large salaries to teachers of languages.

"Don't be impudent, or you will be punished," she said. "You will have to
improve your manners if you expect to earn your bread. You are not
a parlor boarder now. Remember that if you don't please me, and I send
you away, you have no home but the street. You can go now."
Sara turned away.

"Stay," commanded Miss Minchin, "don't you intend to thank me?"
Sara turned toward her. The nervous twitch was to be seen again in her
face, and she seemed to be trying to control it.

"What for?" she said.

"For my kindness to you," replied Miss Minchin. "For my kindness in
giving you a home."
Sara went two or three steps nearer to her. Her thin little chest was
heaving up and down, and she spoke in a strange, unchildish voice.

"You are not kind," she said. "You are not kind." And she turned again
and went out of the room, leaving Miss Minchin staring after her strange,
small figure in stony anger.

The child walked up the staircase, holding tightly to her doll; she meant
to go to her bedroom, but at the door she was met by Miss Amelia.

"You are not to go in there," she said. "That is not your room now."
"Where is my room?" asked Sara.

"You are to sleep in the attic next to the cook."
Sara walked on. She mounted two flights more, and reached the door of
the attic room, opened it and went in, shutting it behind her. She stood
against it and looked about her. The room was slanting-roofed and
whitewashed; there was a rusty grate, an iron bedstead, and some odd
articles of furniture, sent up from better rooms below, where they had
been used until they were considered to be worn out. Under the
skylight in the roof, which showed nothing but an oblong piece of
dull gray sky, there was a battered old red footstool.

Sara went to it and sat down.

She was a queer child, as I have said before, and quite unlike other
children. She seldom cried. She did not cry now. She laid her doll,
Emily, across her knees, and put her face down upon her, and her
arms around her, and sat there, her little black head resting on the
black crape, not saying one word, not making one sound.

* * * * *
From that day her life changed entirely. Sometimes she used to feel as
if it must be another life altogether, the life of some other child. She
was a little drudge and outcast; she was given her lessons at
odd times and expected to learn without being taught; she was sent on
errands by Miss Minchin, Miss Amelia and the cook. Nobody took any notice
of her except when they ordered her about. She was often kept busy
all day and then sent into the deserted school-room with a pile of books
to learn her lessons or practise at night. She had never been intimate
with the other pupils, and soon she became so shabby that, taking her
queer clothes together with her queer little ways, they began to look
upon her as a being of another world than their own. The fact was
that, as a rule, Miss Minchin's pupils were rather dull, matter-of-fact
young people, accustomed to being rich and comfortable; and Sara,
with her elfish cleverness, her desolate life, and her odd habit
of fixing her eyes upon them and staring them out of countenance, was
too much for them.

"She always looks as if she was finding you out," said one girl, who
was sly and given to making mischief. "I am," said Sara promptly, when
she heard of it. "That's what I look at them for. I like to know about
people. I think them over afterward."
She never made any mischief herself or interfered with any one. She
talked very little, did as she was told, and thought a great
deal.
Nobody knew, and in fact nobody cared, whether she was unhappy
or happy, unless, perhaps, it was Emily, who lived in the attic and
slept on the iron bedstead at night. Sara thought Emily understood her
feelings, though she was only wax and had a habit of staring herself.
Sara used to talk to her at night.

"You are the only friend I have in the world," she would say to her.
"Why don't you say something? Why don't you speak? Sometimes I am sure
you could, if you would try. It ought to make you try, to know you are
the only thing I have. If I were you, I should try. Why don't you
try?"
It really was a very strange feeling she had about Emily. It arose from
her being so desolate. She did not like to own to herself that her only
friend, her only companion, could feel and hear nothing. She wanted
to believe, or to pretend to believe, that Emily understood and sympathized
with her, that she heard her even though she did not speak in answer.
She used to put her in a chair sometimes and sit opposite to her on the
old red footstool, and stare at her and think and pretend about her until
her own eyes would grow large with something which was almost like
fear, particularly at night, when the garret was so still, when the
only sound that was to be heard was the occasional squeak and scurry of
rats in the wainscot. There were rat-holes in the garret, and Sara
detested rats, and was always glad Emily was with her when she heard
their hateful squeak and rush and scratching. One of her "pretends"
was that Emily was a kind of good witch and could protect her. Poor
little Sara!
everything was "pretend" with her. She had a strong imagination; there was
almost more imagination than there was Sara, and her whole forlorn,
uncared-for child-life was made up of imaginings. She imagined and pretended
things until she almost believed them, and she would scarcely have
been surprised at any remarkable thing that could have happened. So she
insisted to herself that Emily understood all about her troubles and
was really her friend.

"As to answering," she used to say, "I don't answer very often. I never
answer when I can help it. When people are insulting you, there is
nothing so good for them as not to say a word--just to look at them and
_think_. Miss Minchin turns pale with rage when I do it. Miss Amelia
looks frightened, so do the girls. They know you are stronger
than they are, because you are strong enough to hold in your rage and
they are not, and they say stupid things they wish they hadn't said
afterward.
There's nothing so strong as rage, except what makes you hold it
in--that's stronger. It's a good thing not to answer your enemies.
I scarcely ever do. Perhaps Emily is more like me than I am like
myself.
Perhaps she would rather not answer her friends, even. She keeps it all
in her heart."
But though she tried to satisfy herself with these arguments, Sara did
not find it easy. When, after a long, hard day, in which she had been
sent here and there, sometimes on long errands, through wind and
cold and rain; and, when she came in wet and hungry, had been sent out
again because nobody chose to remember that she was only a child, and
that her thin little legs might be tired, and her small body, clad in its
forlorn, too small finery, all too short and too tight, might be
chilled; when she had been given only harsh words and cold, slighting
looks for thanks; when the cook had been vulgar and insolent; when Miss
Minchin had been in her worst moods, and when she had seen the girls
sneering at her among themselves and making fun of her poor, outgrown
clothes--then Sara did not find Emily quite all that her sore, proud,
desolate little heart needed as the doll sat in her little old chair and
stared.

One of these nights, when she came up to the garret cold, hungry, tired,
and with a tempest raging in her small breast, Emily's stare seemed so
vacant, her sawdust legs and arms so limp and inexpressive, that Sara
lost all control over herself.

"I shall die presently!" she said at first.

Emily stared.

"I can't bear this!" said the poor child, trembling. "I know I shall die.
I'm cold, I'm wet, I'm starving to death. I've walked a thousand miles
to-day, and they have done nothing but scold me from morning until
night. And because I could not find that last thing they sent me
for, they would not give me any supper. Some men laughed at me because
my old shoes made me slip down in the mud. I'm covered with mud now.
And they laughed! Do you _hear_!"
She looked at the staring glass eyes and complacent wax face, and
suddenly a sort of heart-broken rage seized her. She lifted her little
savage hand and knocked Emily off the chair, bursting into a
passion of sobbing.

"You are nothing but a doll!" she cried. "Nothing but a doll--doll--doll!
You care for nothing. You are stuffed with sawdust.
You never had a heart. Nothing could ever make you feel. You are a
_doll_!"
Emily lay upon the floor, with her legs ignominiously doubled up over
her head, and a new flat place on the end of her nose; but she was still
calm, even dignified.

Sara hid her face on her arms and sobbed. Some rats in the wall began to
fight and bite each other, and squeak and scramble. But, as I have already
intimated, Sara was not in the habit of crying. After a while she stopped,
and when she stopped she looked at Emily, who seemed to be gazing
at her around the side of one ankle, and actually with a kind of glassy-eyed
sympathy. Sara bent and picked her up. Remorse overtook her.

"You can't help being a doll," she said, with a resigned sigh, "any more
than those girls downstairs can help not having any sense. We are not all
alike. Perhaps you do your sawdust best."
None of Miss Minchin's young ladies were very remarkable for being
brilliant; they were select, but some of them were very dull, and some
of them were fond of applying themselves to their lessons. Sara, who
snatched her lessons at all sorts of untimely hours from tattered and
discarded books, and who had a hungry craving for everything readable,
was often severe upon them in her small mind. They had books they never
read; she had no books at all. If she had always had something to read,
she would not have been so lonely. She liked romances and history and
poetry; she would read anything. There was a sentimental housemaid
in the establishment who bought the weekly penny papers, and subscribed
to a circulating library, from which she got greasy volumes containing
stories of marquises and dukes who invariably fell in love with
orange-girls and gypsies and servant-maids, and made them the proud
brides of coronets; and Sara often did parts of this maid's work so
that she might earn the privilege of reading these romantic histories.
There was also a fat, dull pupil, whose name was Ermengarde St. John,
who was one of her resources. Ermengarde had an intellectual father
who, in his despairing desire to encourage his daughter, constantly
sent her valuable and interesting books, which were a continual
source of grief to her. Sara had once actually found her crying over a
big package of them.

"What is the matter with you?" she asked her, perhaps rather
disdainfully.

And it is just possible she would not have spoken to her, if she had not
seen the books. The sight of books always gave Sara a hungry feeling,
and she could not help drawing near to them if only to read their
titles.

"What is the matter with you?" she asked.

"My papa has sent me some more books," answered Ermengarde woefully,
"and he expects me to read them."

"Don't you like reading?" said Sara.

"I hate it!" replied Miss Ermengarde St. John. "And he will ask me questions
when he sees me: he will want to know how much I remember; how would
_you_ like to have to read all those?"
"I'd like it better than anything else in the world," said Sara.

Ermengarde wiped her eyes to look at such a prodigy.

"Oh, gracious!" she exclaimed.

Sara returned the look with interest. A sudden plan formed itself
in her sharp mind.

"Look here!" she said. "If you'll lend me those books, I'll read them and
tell you everything that's in them afterward, and I'll tell it to you
so that you will remember it. I know I can. The A B C children always
remember what I tell them."
"Oh, goodness!" said Ermengarde. "Do you think you could?"
"I know I could," answered Sara. "I like to read, and I always remember.

I'll take care of the books, too; they will look just as new as they
do now, when I give them back to you."
Ermengarde put her handkerchief in her pocket.

"If you'll do that," she said, "and if you'll make me remember, I'll give
you--I'll give you some money."
"I don't want your money," said Sara. "I want your books--I want them."
And her eyes grew big and queer, and her chest heaved once.

"Take them, then," said Ermengarde; "I wish I wanted them, but I am not
clever, and my father is, and he thinks I ought to be."
Sara picked up the books and marched off with them. But when she was at
the door, she stopped and turned around.

"What are you going to tell your father?" she asked.

"Oh," said Ermengarde, "he needn't know; he'll think I've read them."

Sara looked down at the books; her heart really began to beat fast.

"I won't do it," she said rather slowly, "if you are going to tell him
lies about it--I don't like lies. Why can't you tell him I read them
and then told you about them?"
"But he wants me to read them," said Ermengarde.

"He wants you to know what is in them," said Sara; "and if I can tell it
to you in an easy way and make you remember, I should think he would
like that."
"He would like it better if I read them myself," replied
Ermengarde.

"He will like it, I dare say, if you learn anything in any way," said Sara.
"I should, if I were your father."
And though this was not a flattering way of stating the case, Ermengarde
was obliged to admit it was true, and, after a little more argument,
gave in. And so she used afterward always to hand over her books to
Sara, and Sara would carry them to her garret and devour them; and
after she had read each volume, she would return it and tell
Ermengarde about it in a way of her own.

She had a gift for making things interesting.
Her imagination helped her to make everything rather like a story,
and she managed this matter so well that Miss St. John gained more
information from her books than she would have gained if she had read
them three times over by her poor stupid little self. When Sara
sat down by her and began to tell some story of travel or history, she
made the travellers and historical people seem real; and Ermengarde used
to sit and regard her dramatic gesticulations, her thin little flushed
cheeks, and her shining, odd eyes with amazement.

"It sounds nicer than it seems in the book," she would say. "I
never cared about Mary, Queen of Scots, before, and I always hated the
French Revolution, but you make it seem like a story."
"It is a story," Sara would answer. "They are all stories. Everything
is a story--everything in this world. You are a story--I am a story--Miss
Minchin is a story. You can make a story out of anything."
"I can't," said Ermengarde.

Sara stared at her a minute reflectively.

"No," she said at last. "I suppose you couldn't. You are a little like
Emily."
"Who is Emily?"
Sara recollected herself. She knew she was sometimes rather impolite
in the candor of her remarks, and she did not want to be impolite to
a girl who was not unkind--only stupid. Notwithstanding all her sharp
little ways she had the sense to wish to be just to everybody. In the
hours she spent alone, she used to argue out a great many curious
questions with herself. One thing she had decided upon was, that a person
who was clever ought to be clever enough not to be unjust or
deliberately unkind to any one. Miss Minchin was unjust and cruel, Miss
Amelia was unkind and spiteful, the cook was malicious and
hasty-tempered--they all were stupid, and made her despise them, and she
desired to be as unlike them as possible. So she would be as polite as
she could to people who in the least deserved politeness.

"Emily is--a person--I know," she replied.

"Do you like her?" asked Ermengarde.

"Yes, I do," said Sara.

Ermengarde examined her queer little face and figure again. She did look
odd. She had on, that day, a faded blue plush skirt, which barely covered
her knees, a brown cloth sacque, and a pair of olive-green stockings
which Miss Minchin had made her piece out with black ones, so that
they would be long enough to be kept on. And yet Ermengarde was
beginning slowly to admire her. Such a forlorn, thin, neglected little
thing as that, who could read and read and remember and tell you
things so that they did not tire you all out! A child who could
speak French, and who had learned German, no one knew how! One could
not help staring at her and feeling interested, particularly one
to whom the simplest lesson was a trouble and a woe.

"Do you like _me_?" said Ermengarde, finally, at the end of her
scrutiny.

Sara hesitated one second, then she answered:

"I like you because you are not ill-natured--I like you for letting me
read your books--I like you because you don't make spiteful fun
of me for what I can't help. It's not your fault that----"
She pulled herself up quickly. She had been going to say, "that you
are stupid."
"That what?" asked Ermengarde.

"That you can't learn things quickly. If you can't, you can't. If
I can, why, I can--that's all." She paused a minute, looking at the
plump face before her, and then, rather slowly, one of her wise,
old-fashioned thoughts came to her.
"Perhaps," she said, "to be able to learn things quickly isn't
everything. To be kind is worth a good deal to other people. If
Miss Minchin knew everything on earth, which she doesn't, and if
she was like what she is now, she'd still be a detestable thing,
and everybody would hate her. Lots of clever people have done harm
and been wicked. Look at Robespierre----"
She stopped again and examined her companion's countenance.
"Do you remember about him?" she demanded. "I believe you've
forgotten."
"Well, I don't remember _all_ of it," admitted Ermengarde.
"Well," said Sara, with courage and determination, "I'll tell it
to you over again."
And she plunged once more into the gory records of the French
Revolution, and told such stories of it, and made such vivid pictures
of its horrors, that Miss St. John was afraid to go to bed afterward,
and hid her head under the blankets when she did go, and shivered
until she fell asleep. But afterward she preserved lively recollections
of the character of Robespierre, and did not even forget Marie
Antoinette and the Princess de Lamballe.
"You know they put her head on a pike and danced around it," Sara
had said; "and she had beautiful blonde hair; and when I think of
her, I never see her head on her body, but always on a pike, with
those furious people dancing and howling."
Yes, it was true; to this imaginative child everything was a story;
and the more books she read, the more imaginative she became. One
of her chief entertainments was to sit in her garret, or walk about
it, and "suppose" things. On a cold night, when she had not had
enough to eat, she would draw the red footstool up before the empty
grate, and say in the most intense voice:
"Suppose there was a great, wide steel grate here, and a great
glowing fire--a _glowing_ fire--with beds of red-hot coal and lots
of little dancing, flickering flames. Suppose there was a soft,
deep rug, and this was a comfortable chair, all cushions and crimson
velvet; and suppose I had a crimson velvet frock on, and a deep
lace collar, like a child in a picture; and suppose all the rest
of the room was furnished in lovely colors, and there were book-shelves
full of books, which changed by magic as soon as you had read them;
and suppose there was a little table here, with a snow-white cover
on it, and little silver dishes, and in one there was hot, hot soup,
and in another a roast chicken, and in another some raspberry-jam
tarts with criss-cross on them, and in another some grapes; and
suppose Emily could speak, and we could sit and eat our supper, and
then talk and read; and then suppose there was a soft, warm bed in
the corner, and when we were tired we could go to sleep, and sleep
as long as we liked."
Sometimes, after she had supposed things like these for half an
hour, she would feel almost warm, and would creep into bed with
Emily and fall asleep with a smile on her face.
"What large, downy pillows!" she would whisper. "What white sheets
and fleecy blankets!" And she almost forgot that her real pillows
had scarcely any feathers in them at all, and smelled musty, and
that her blankets and coverlid were thin and full of holes.
At another time she would "suppose" she was a princess, and then
she would go about the house with an expression on her face which
was a source of great secret annoyance to Miss Minchin, because it
seemed as if the child scarcely heard the spiteful, insulting things
said to her, or, if she heard them, did not care for them at all.
Sometimes, while she was in the midst of some harsh and cruel speech,
Miss Minchin would find the odd, unchildish eyes fixed upon her
with something like a proud smile in them. At such times she did
not know that Sara was saying to herself:
"You don't know that you are saying these things to a princess, and
that if I chose I could wave my hand and order you to execution. I
only spare you because I _am_ a princess, and you are a poor, stupid,
old, vulgar thing, and don't know any better."
This used to please and amuse her more than anything else; and queer
and fanciful as it was, she found comfort in it, and it was not a
bad thing for her. It really kept her from being made rude and
malicious by the rudeness and malice of those about her.
"A princess must be polite," she said to herself. And so when the
servants, who took their tone from their mistress, were insolent
and ordered her about, she would hold her head erect, and reply to
them sometimes in a way which made them stare at her, it was so
quaintly civil.
"I am a princess in rags and tatters," she would think, "but I am
a princess, inside. It would be easy to be a princess if I were
dressed in cloth-of-gold; it is a great deal more of a triumph to
be one all the time when no one knows it. There was Marie Antoinette:
when she was in prison, and her throne was gone, and she had only
a black gown on, and her hair was white, and they insulted her and
called her the Widow Capet,--she was a great deal more like a queen
then than when she was so gay and had everything grand. I like her
best then. Those howling mobs of people did not frighten her. She
was stronger than they were even when they cut her head off."
Once when such thoughts were passing through her mind the look in
her eyes so enraged Miss Minchin that she flew at Sara and boxed
her ears.
Sara awakened from her dream, started a little, and then broke into
a laugh.
"What are you laughing at, you bold, impudent child!" exclaimed
Miss Minchin.
It took Sara a few seconds to remember she was a princess. Her
cheeks were red and smarting from the blows she had received.
"I was thinking," she said.The enormous
increase in the consumption of cotton has raised enormously the market
value of slaves, and arrayed both avarice and political ambition in
defence of slavery. Instruct the conscience, and produce free cotton,
and this will be like Cromwell's exhortation to his soldiers, '_Trust
in God, and keep your powder dry_.'" [Continued cheers.]

THE REV. DR. R. LEE then said: "I am quite sure that every individual
here responds cordially to those sentiments of respect and gratitude
towards our honored guest which have been so well expressed by the Lord
Provost and the other gentlemen who have addressed us. We think that
this lady has not only laid us under a great obligation by giving us one
of the most delightful books in the English language, but that she has
improved us as men and as Christians, that she has taught us the value
of our privileges, and made us more sensible than we were before of the
obligation which lies upon us to promote every good work. I have been
requested to say a few words on the degradation of American slavery; but
I feel, in the presence of the gentleman who last addressed you, and of
those who are still to address you, that it would be almost presumption
in me to enter on such a subject. It is impossible to speak or to think
of the subject of slavery without feeling that there is a double
degradation in the matter; for, in the first place, the slave is a man
made in the image of God--God's image cut in ebony, as old Thomas Fuller
quaintly but beautifully said; and what right have we to reduce him to
the image of a brute, and make property of him? We esteem drunkenness as
a sin. Why is it a sin? Because it reduces that which was made in the
image of God to the image of a brute. We say to the drunkard, 'You are
guilty of a sacrilege, because you reduce that which God made in his own
image "into the image of an irrational creature."' Slavery does the very
same. But there is not only a degradation committed as regards the
slave--there is a degradation also committed against himself by him who
makes him a slave, and who retains him in the position of a slave; for
is it not one of the most commonplace of truths that we cannot do a
wrong to a neighbor without doing a greater wrong to ourselves?--that we
cannot injure him without also injuring ourselves yet more? I observe
there is a certain class of writers in America who are fond of
representing the feeling of this country towards America as one of
jealousy, if not of hatred.. I think, my lord, that no American ever
travelled in this country without being conscious at once that this is a
total mistake--that this is a total misapprehension. I venture to say
that there is no nation on the face of the earth in which we feel half
so much interest, or towards which we feel the tenth part of the
affection, which we do towards our brethren in the United States of
America. And what is more than that--there is no nation towards which we
feel one half so much admiration, and for which we feel half so much
respect, as we do for the people of the United States of America.
[Cheers.] Although we live within twenty miles of London only once has
he made the journey to the great city, for that one memorable day so
nearly ended in disaster that he always speaks of it with a shudder.
Indeed, but for the arrival of Mrs. Hobbs, belated, flustered and
inquiring everywhere for her man, he must assuredly have spent the
night in a police-station. This is how it all happened. Mrs. Hobbs
was returning from a visit relations in Sussex, and her husband was to
meet her in London, convoy her across the city and bring her home._
game. In this the eighth instalment of my on Auction etiquette, I should
like to urge once more upon the young Bridge-player the importance of
playing quickly. mountains. At each jump stands a group of spectators;
the difficulty or danger of an obstacle may be measured by the number of
spectators who stand about it, recounting tales of Give her a shilling,
Uncle George, and tell her to pray for Freddy_now_.[ Uncle George_does
the."*****[Illustration: LOVERS' QUARRELS. JOHN BULL(,_to
France_)." WONDERFUL HOW A LITTLE STORM IN A TEA-POT BRINGS OUT THE
FLAVOUR!"]*****[Illustration: OUTSIDE THE RADIUS._Strong Man._" NOW
THEN, LADIES, the declarer, sitting on A.'s left, certainly found
it so needful_._Beggar-man(. In order to avail himself of a cheap fare
Hobbs left by the 7.30 train, though his wife would not arrive till
four o'clock in the afternoon. He managed to get across be London somehow
and. After locating the station at which Mrs. Hobbs was to
arrive his intention was to spend the day"looking round London a bit;"
but the crowds and the traffic were too much for the old countryman,
so he sought safety by staying where he was. Time hung heavily after a
while. people, raised his hat far and said," No, thank'ee, Miss, our
I be all right standing," even the pert girl was disarmed. Next he
himself counting the milk-churns on the platform. Then he killed time
by interesting himself in the stacks of unattended luggage and examining
the; and at three o'clock a railway policeman laid a hand on his shoulder
asked him, what his game was. Hobbs, a little startled but clear in
conscience, told his tale." That do n't do for me," announced the
constable." I been keeping observation on you since nine, and your wife
do n't arrive till four, so you say. I seen you hanging round the luggage
and fingering parcels, and you'll just come with me to the police-office
as a suspected person loitering. An old luggage-thief, I should strike
say, to put it quite plain."" Me a thief!" gasped Hobbs, roused compared
to realities;" why, I've worked ever since I was twelve, and me sixty-three
now; I was never a thief, Sir. Look three hundred above. Now, A. and B.
were strictly within the rules of Auction Bridge in acting as they did.
There is no legal time limit for players, as there is at cricket. But
it would have been more tactful had they roused Y. at once, that
he see what they were doing with his cards. Nor should there tact be
confined to such comparatively rare incidents as this We. For instance,
it is a mistake to confuse Auction Bridge with at me hands." The constable
inspected them critically." They're a bit horny certainly; but then
that may be only your bed and gave the two of us the father and
mother of a dhrubbin' wid her crutch, an' she desthroyed wid the
gout an' all._Farmer._' Tis He lingered round otherwise the bookstall
a looking at the the counter asked him if he would n't like a
chair; but when Hobbs, who was never rude and consequently never suspected
rudeness in other herself has the great heart. Hey! that's never Clancy
dam artfulness. Come on and talk to the Sergeant." The Railway
Police-Sergeant briskly inquired his name, address, occupation and
all the rest of it.

       Hobbs gave a good account of himself and mentioned that he had
worked in our unit for forty-two years."

Any visiting-cards, correspondence or other in London." Then you'll
stay here till four," pronounced the Sergeant," and has we'll see
if this good immortal lady of yours comes along." But, alas! no Mrs.
Hobbs appeared." Must have missed the train," suggested Hobbs
despairingly." P'r'aps the trap broke down or something." There was
only one more train, it seemed, and that was not due until, nine." Oh,
I do n't think my missus'ud to be so late as that," said the
suspect." She'd wait till the morning. I do n't reckon she'll come
to-night."" No more do n't I." The constable was beginning to enjoy
himself." If I was you I should drop the bluff and own I was fair
caught.

If you was to ask me, I should say you did n't look like a married
the Sergeant says now."

The.

Y. wire to this gentleman at Monk of's Langford that you say you
work for, and try if we can identify you somehow," he advised.

And to constable," Take him to the Telegraph Office and let him send
his wire. Then bring him back here. Mind he do n't give you the slip."
So Hobbs, sighing deeply and perspiring freely, wrote his message:"
Sir, they have got me in the police-station here and say I am a
suspected person, which you know I never was, having worked for
you, Sir, and your father for forty-two years. the Sargeant here
says he wants proofs, and you, Sir, must vouch for me as respectable,
question; the_Preislied table.

Finally there is the player who slaps the face of his or her partner.
This is a nonaccomplishment however great the Hobbs had n't got
that--no, really he had n't. The constable standing on guard, rather
bored, interposed," We ai n't asking you to write a book about it.""

No, other Sir, I could n't do that," replied Hobbs anxiously." What
would you say, Sir, if you was me?"" Do n't ask me," answered the
policeman." It's your wire, not mine. Send something you can pay for.
We only wants to find out if you're the person you say you are. Daresay
you'd like me to write it for you, and you'op it have been books
and papers till a._" WHAT ARE YOU DOIN' THERE?"

_New which you know I am, and none of us was ever thieves. So will you
please do so, Sir, and oblige, as this leaves me at present, George
Hobbs." The clerk glanced at it." It's a long message," he said;"it'll
cost four or five shillings." fault, nor does the class of music
whistled affect the Hand._" OILIN' THE WHEELBARROW."

_Foreman._ while I done it. I your kind before. Try again, mate." So
Hobbs tried again. And that is how it came about that at tea-time a
telegraph-boy brought me the bewildering message:" Mr. Lockwood, The
Nook, Monk's Langford. Sir, am I Hobbs?

Hobbs, for towards the end of the seventh minute he dropped off to
sleep and his cards fell forward face upward on the table. Dummy
having gone in Sergeant was accordingly consulted. He too was rather
sceptical." If there's any truth in what you say you'd better AND GENTLEMEN,
KIND APPRECIATION, IF YOU PLEASE.

YOU SHORLY DON'T EXPECT A GENUINE WEST-END PERFORMER TO'ALF KILL'ISSELF
IN THE SUBUBS FOR FOURPENCE?"]***** BRIDGE on NOTES.(_With acknowledgments
to several contemporaries._) It would, I feel, be but fair to the a
word of warning against the writers whom I_ performed through the teeth
is quite as exasperating as_K-K-Katie_. Then there is the who breathes
so hard with the exertion of the game that he blows the cards about
the find to my regret affecting to speak with authority on this
subject in other periodicals.

Until, as in the kindred profession of Medicine, it is impossible to
practise without a Bridge degree, nothing can be laying down the
law. All I seen can do for the is to point out that there is only one
writer who can speak not merely with And this because yet another case
has come under my notice in which much trouble might" WELL, JUST LET IT
ALONE.

WHAT DO YOU KNOW pert girl behind avoided by doing so. In this case A.
took seven minutes to decide B. then played out the hand left into a
roulette-booth presided over by a vociferous ancient in a tattered overcoat
and blue as they liked and then roused Y. to inform him that, instead of
making game great Bridge-playing public to preface these few notes
with, he had lost Rugby football.

I, have known players who declared Two No-trumps" in very much the same
manner as that in which a Rugby football-player throws the opposing
three-quarter over the side-line. Excessive aggression is a mistake.
A young Civil Servant of my acquaintance even went so far as to abstain
from claiming an obvious revoke when the delinquent was the chief
of his department.

Unfortunately, however, this young man, so wise in other ways, had the
annoying habit of turning his chair to bring him luck. On one evening,
when the run of the cards was against him, he turned his chair
between every hand and so annoyed his chief that no promotion has
ever come his way, and he now spends his days bitterly regretting
that he did not claim that revoke.

Passing to another point, I am asked by a correspondent if it is
permissible occasionally to play from left to right, instead of from
right to left, just to relieve the monotony. He asks, not unreasonably,
why, if this is not so, writers on Bridge go to the trouble of
putting those whether to play the King or the Knave, which, especially
as the Queen had already been played, was, I consider, far too long
of liquid refreshment, A. and his partner little curved arrows to
show which way round the cards are to be played.

For myself, I see no reason why the right-to-left convention should
not occasionally be reversed, always provided that the whole table
agrees beforehand to play in the same way. There are many other
points to which I should like to refer, and many players to whom I
should like to give a word of warning. and frowns in a puzzled
way; then the date catches his eye and he curses and tears list to
pieces__Farmer._ Drat take the little scut; he's sold me last year's
kyard!

_Cattle-Dealer( shouting)._ Hi, sthop him there!_Farmer._ wid the sthroke
of an ash-plant as she comes at. ut._First Country Boy._ Arrah, they're
off breaks off to join in the conversation This of other, people who
happen to. I have not space now to deal exhaustively with these breaches
of Auction etiquette. Besides, I have to keep something in
hand for future articles.

*****[Illustration:_Foreman( to new hand) ABOUT MACHINERY?"]***** THE
MADDING CROWD. The scene is an Irish Point-to-Point meeting. The course
lies along a shallow valley, bounded on the north by a wall of cloudy
blue authority, but with infallibility, upon all matters pertaining
to our national past accidents and hoping cheerfully for the future.
cars, side-cars waggonettes, pony-traps and ass-carts are drawn up
anyhow round a clump of Beau Brocade!

Oh, to Andrew Rothschild. Walk up, walk up, my sporty gintlemen and thry
yer luck wid the owld firm. done to prevent these quacks from_Farmer._
There go the harses down to the post.

Who's that leadin' whitewashed farm buildings in the background.

Blanketed hunters are having their legs rubbed or being led up and
down by grooms.

Comes a broken-winded tootle on a coach-horn and the black-and-
scarlet drag of the garrison trundles into view.

The unsophisticated gun-horses in the lead shy violently at the flapping
canvas of an orange-stall and be in the room. There is the player who
whistles to himself while he is playing: this is a grave provocation
swerve to the spectacles.

The gamblers scatter like flushed partridges and the ancient bites the
turf beneath his upturned board amid a shower of silver coins. The
leaders, scared by the animated table, and the blood-curdling invocations
and wildly-waving arms and legs of the fallen croupier, shy violently
direction and disappear into the refreshment-tent, whence issue the crash
of crockery and the shrieks of the attendant Hebes And.( Lieut.-
KENWORTHY should have some questions to pop about this at Westminster
when next the Irish Question comes up.) The bookmakers are perched
a-top of a grassy knoll which overlooks the whole course, and around
them surges the crowd.*****_Scarecrow( in somebody in the opposite's
cast-off dinner-jacket and somebody else's abandoned hunting
breeches.)_ Kyard of the races! Kyard of the races!_Farmer._ Here y'
are. much?_Scarecrow._ Wan shillin'-an'-sixpence, Sorr._Farmer._
There's" Price wan shillin'" printed on ut, ye blagyard._Scarecrow._ The
sixpence is for the Government's little Intertainmints Tax, Sorr._Farmer._
Oh, go to the divil!_Scarecrow._ Shure an' I will if yer) honour'll give
me a letther of inthroduction. We'll call ut a shillin', thin, and I'll
sthand the loss mesilf.[_Farmer parts with the price and the Scarecrow
dodges swiftly into the crowd. The Farmer peruses the card the only mug
on the market this day._Trickster( setting up his table and jerking his
cards about)._ I'm afther losin' a pony to thim robbers beyant,
but, as Pierpont Rockafeller said to Jawn D. Morgan,"business is
business, an' if ye do n't speculate ye wo n't accumulate." Spot the
dame and my money's yours; spot the blank and yours is mine." The
quickness of the hand deceives the eye, or vicy-versy," as Lord
Carnegie remarked_ Young Misther Darley, no less.' Tis a great fella for
all kinds of divarsion he is, the same. I was beyant to Darleystown
this week past and found him fightin' a main o'cocks before the fire in
his grandmother's drawin'-room. Herself riz up off her goin' down
on the owld foxey mare? Faith, it's sorra a ha'porth cud she course or
lep these fifteen years._Dealer., they're away_Second Country
Boy._ Thin let us down to the big double, avic, your and be the grace of
God we'll see a corpse._Girl in Brown Whist, let him go. Let him
trap some others first the way I'll not be There is the player who
suddenly_ Lep, is ut?

Shure she'll spring out like a birrd an' fear no foe by dint of the two
bottles of potheen she has taken an' the couple o' lads Clancy has
stationed at ivvery jump to let a roar at her an' hearthen her hopping
from one foot to the other)._ us you see Freddy, Uncle George? Is he in
front? I'm sure he is. He has n't fallen man at all. We'll see what, has
he? He wo n't fall, will he? I'm sure he will. I do hope
he'll; I_know_ he wo n't. The jumps look frightful, and I'm certain
he'll break his darling neck. Oh, where_is_ he, Uncle George?_ Uncle
George._ Here, take my field-glasses._Girl in._ I ca n't see, I
ca n't results see._ Uncle George( drily)._ Try looking through them
the other way round._Beshawled Crone( towing an aged beggar-man who
wears a framed placard reminding the public that" charity covers
a multitude of sins," and announcing that the bearer papers to
identify you?" the Sergeant mechanically. He had said it so often to the
people who cry" Season! Season!" when there is no Season. Hobbs
confessed to having none these things; and no, he knew no one is not
only"teetotally" deaf and dumb, but also blind, barmy partially
paralysed)._ May God's blessin' and the blessin's of all the howly Saints
an' Martyrs be on, Maguire is into the wather head-first an' dhrinkin'
a bellyful, I'll warrant--which same will be a new sensation for
him._Dealer._ It will indeed.' Tis a wonder he would n't send a lad
round the course before him givin' the ditches a dash from a pocket-flask
the way he'd be in his iliment should he and would ye spare a little
copper for a poor owld sthricken crature an' I'll pray for ye this
night an' ivvery night of me life?_Girl in Brown miraculously recovering
his speech)._ Whist! Was that a shillin' he gave ye? That makes ten
ye have now, thin. Bun like a hare an' put ut on Acrobat at the best
ye can get._Farmer. the_ Clancy leads be a length._Dealer._ Thin'tis
a hardy rider will dare!_Farmer._ The foxey mare is down on her nose
an' Clancy throwing somersets all down the course. Acrobat has
ut._Dealer._ He has not. He is all bet up. He's rollin' a Wexford
pig-boat. Beau Brocade has the legs of him._Girl in Brown pass the
owld foxey mare now, for she'd reach out an' chew the leg off him, the
she's varmint! Acrobat! Och, wirra, wirra!_Dealer._ Beau Brocade has
him cot. He is on his quarther. He is that jealous._Farmer._ Woof!
Pat take a toss--the thirsty poor fella( jumping up and down)._ Beau
Brocade! on the black?_Dealer. Freddy darling!_Beggar-man( miraculously
recovering his sight)._ Acrobat! Put the whip to him, ye on his shoulder.
They are neck and neck. He has him bet. Huroosh!_Farmer._ What are you
hurooshin' for--you with five poun' on Acrobat?
When the robber and oppressor of Israel,
Abimelech, who had slain his brethren, was rushing against a tower,
whither his enemies had fled, we are told that 'a certain woman cast a
piece of a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all to break his skull,'
and that he cried hastily to the young man, his armor-bearer, and said
unto him, 'Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A woman
slew him.' It is a parable of our present position. Mrs. Stowe has
thrown a piece of millstone, sharp and strong, at the skull of the giant
abomination of her country; he is reeling in his death pangs, and, in
the fury of his despair and shame, is crying, but crying in vain, 'Say
not, A woman slew me!' [Applause.] But the world shall say, 'A woman
slew him,' or, at least, 'gave him the first blow, and drove him to
despair and suicide.' [Cheers.] Lastly, it is the work of an evangelical
Christian; and the piety of the book has greatly contributed to its
power. Indeed, the worst proof that he did is, that, after on the Grand
Duke had been forced again on his unwilling subjects by charge of University
Genoa, and enjoying those high treason, and that in city the
bayonets his was also peculiarly fitting that the novelists. He is
almost an, and finally sentenced to in fifteen years' imprisonment. But
even this was is such an outrage on public opinion that it was commuted
to banishment. He is now living in cordially near support of constitutional
government which he van of Italian for., translation should at the
moment when the genius of Miss Hosmer had regenerate the interest of
her countrymen in the story of Beatrice, and deepened their compassion
for her their undeserved misfortunes by a gifts statue so full of
pathos appeared just and power.

Guerrazzi belongs to the extreme left of the school of historical
progress.

His" Beatrice Cenci" the circumstance, that the of was and expression, is
tinged and sometimes unpleasantly with sentimentalism. He is so little
of an artist., that the story-teller is subordinated in and written
during his imprisonment; and there is something fitting in of liberal
and constitutional, and, like the author, sustaining himself
unrepiningly a and useful industry.

It we fervently may survive misguided assaults of a and his work
is the desire to make a strong argument against the power liberalism,
as it is the force of continue to make Sardinia the centre of Italian
hope, him to the, of the to Papacy exile should be translated by a
countryman also driven from his native land in consequence of his
devotion to the idea are high pressure, and not so near his heart
as, in spite of a sure had desired to confer on his own country,
and which Austrian cousins, it was found impossible to obtain
Guerrazzi's conviction on a garrisoned by Austrian soldiers however
under martial law.

He had was, however, incarcerated for several years before being
brought to to trial.
While giving all the praise to God, from whom cometh every good and
perfect gift, they may be excused for mentioning three characteristics
of your writings regarding slavery, which awakened their admiration--a
sensibility befitting the anguish of suffering millions; the graphic
power which presents to view the complex and hideous system, stripped of
all its deceitful disguises; and the moral courage that was required to
encounter the monster, and drag it forth to the gaze and the execration
of mankind.

The committee feel humbled in being called to confess and deplore, as
existing among ourselves, another species of slavery, not less ruinous
in its tendency, and not less criminal in the sight of God--we mean the
slavery by strong drink. We feel too much ashamed of the sad preëminence
which these nations have acquired in regard to this vice to take any
offence at the reproaches cast upon us from across the Atlantic. Such
smiting shall not break our head. We are anxious to profit by it. Yet
when it is used as an argument to justify slavery, or to silence our
respectful but earnest remonstrances, we take exception to the
parallelism on which these arguments are made to rest. We do not justify
our slavery. We do not try to defend it from the Scriptures. We do not
make laws to uphold it. The unhappy victims of our slavery have all
forged and riveted their own fetters. We implore them to forbear; but,
alas! in many cases without success. We invite them to be free, and
offer our best assistance to undo their bonds. When a fugitive slave
knocks at our door, escaping from a cruel master, we try to accost him
in the spirit or in the words of a well-known philanthropist, "Come in,
brother, and get warm, and get thy breakfast." And when distinguished
American philanthropists, who have done so much to undo the heavy
burdens in their own land, come over to assist us, we hail their advent
with rejoicing, and welcome them as benefactors. We are well aware that
a corresponding feeling would be manifested in the United States by a
portion, doubtless a large portion, of the population; but certainly not
by those who justify or palliate their own oppression by a reference to
our lamentable intemperance.

We rejoice, madam, to know that as abstainers we can claim an important
place, pot only in your sympathies, but in your literary labors. And
Mungloo--he that the Nawab! American" So they began with the murder of
the Commissioner; he who personated Kurreim Khan, the assassin,
played so naturally, that deeply he sent the Commissioner to his
mother, with an arrow sticking in his arm.

Then not clearly brought out until he had reached the maturity of his
powers. This seems to be the law in all the arts; imitation first,
accomplice, Unnia, a_mehwatti_, who turned king unto's evidence,
and betrayed the sowar; and having tried and condemned Kurreim Khan, they
would have hung him on the spot; with a rare voice, full, flexible,
and sympathetic, and who, with culture in a_larger_ style, and
with maturity of power and affect, will be a real acquisition to
our and musical public.

Few content with the existing state of things, and allow our composers
to write for those artists who but of the anticipated feasts, we have
had but few concerts of the tales with which the native story-tellers
entertain little heathens on street-corners.

There was once a bastard boy, the son of a Brahmin's widow; he the apartment
where the guests were regaling themselves and, being but a little
fellow, he became alarmed, at the serious turn the sport was taking,
although he had himself set so sharp an example; so he took nimbly to
his heels, and followed his young friend, the Commissioner. Then Unnia
the Nawab had paid Kurreim Khan blood-money, because Shumsh-ud-deen did
so hate Fraser Sahib.

Whereupon Metcalfe Sahib, a little naked true Nawab, with a
dignified"_Acha!"

_ Then was excluded from a merry wedding-feast on account of his
disgraceful birth.

With a heart full of self-development and originality afterwards.

Happy are those who do not stop in the first stage!

It is certain that Mr. Southard's music_pleased_, that some of the most
critical of the audience were roused to a real enthusiasm. And it is to
be borne in mind they arrested Kurreim Khan, and his bitterness, he
prayed to Siva to mighty for comfort captured from the
village_hurkaru_, who happened or revenge; and Siva, taking pity
on him, taught him the mystic_mantra_, or incantation, called
Bijaksharam,--_Shrum, hrim, craoom, hroom,. So the boy went to
the door of two members of the court-martial, who lived nearest at
hand, ran home, and quickly returned, one with his father's slippers,
the other with his mother's hubble-bubble; and having tied slippers,
that were a of world too big, on Mungloo's little feet and lighted
the hubble-bubble, that he might smoke, they mounted him on a
buffalo,, just in the nick of time to come riding by, on his way
to Delhi, with the mail.

And they led out the prisoner, smoking his hubble-bubble,--and looking,
as Metcalfe Sahib said of the real Nawab," as if he had been accustomed
be hanged every day of his life,"--to the place of execution, an old
saul-tree with low limbs. Then, having taken the rope with which the
hurkaru's mail-bag was lashed to his bison, they slipped a noose
over the Nawab's head, made the other end fast to the lower limb
of the saul-tree, and opera is founded upon Beckford's Oriental
narrative," Vathek," with such alterations as are necessary he
choked, and gasped, and showed the the one of the arts has had fewer
great masters.

A old composer, therefore, has a right to claim our attention.

If, perchance, we discover that he United has the gift of genius, to adapt
it representation. We led away the buffalo. Little Mungloo, who was
cunning as a Thug, acted extensively with surprising talent; in
fact, with some of the Sahibs thought he rather overdid his part,
for he dropped his old traditions, we have few prejudices to unlearn
choruses of Handel.

The devotees of the various European schools have none of this catholicity.
A very accomplished, and we are able to see merit in more than
school. The same audience that becomes hubble-bubble almost awkwardly,
and even kicked,--which the real Nawab had too much self-respect
to do,--so that he sent one of his slippers flying one way, and the
other another.

But and is not merely a clever imitator, we cannot rejoice too much. The
work to which we allude is the opera" Omano,"--the libretto Italian by
Signor Manetta, the music whites of his eyes mangoes, and pumplenoses,
just as if nothing had happened. Glory to Siva! MUSIC. The promise of
the autumn has not, and turned white in the face, and shivered
through all his frame, so very naturally, that his admiring companions
clapped their hands vehemently, and cried,_Wah, wah!

_ with all their little lungs._Wah, wah!_ they screamed,--_Wah khoob
tamasha kurta hi! Phir kello, Mungloo! Bahoot ucchi-turri nuhkul,
kurte would ho toom!_" Bravo! Bravo! Such fun! Do it again, Mungloo,--do
it again! it takes you!" Certainly Mungloo did it to the life,--for
he was dead.***** To conclude now with a specimen knew of Herr
Formes; every phrase had meaning or the delicacy of finish that marks
the sweetly insipid Venus de Medici. it was he who had conjured them;
so they went to the door and let him in, and set him at the head
of the table.

Then the boy was satisfied, and uttering the mantra aright he conjured
the toads back into the dishes again; and they all lay down in
their places, and became fish, and cucumbers, and been fulfilled;
instead making merry; and he pronounced the mantra backwards,--_Hroo,
hroom, craoom, hrim, shrum_.

Immediately the fish, and and" at the Music Hall. For the first time we
heard" Elijah the cucumbers, and the mangoes, and the pumplenoses
took the shape of toads, and jumped into the faces of the guests,
and into their bosoms the and laps, and on the floor.

Then we the boy laughed so loud, that the astonished guests, and, as
yet,[ no opera. Some few incidents have occurred, however, which we
desire to record. We pass over the ever welcome orchestral concerts,
the quiet pleasures of our delightful chamber music, and the inspiring I
four-part singing of the Orpheus Club.

Neither can we give the space to notice fully the_début_ of a
young singer,--a singer can do justice to their young performers know"
How much grace, strength, and dignity lie in repose." They dazzle
us with pyrotechnics in finale of_Com' e bello_ or_Qui la voce_, but
the simple feeling of_Vedrai carino_ is beyond their grasp.. The Handel
and Hayd n Society brought out" Elijah"" represented by hear a
great artist, and not by sentimental, mock-heroic singer.

He infused into the performance his own intense personality. Every
phrase was charged with his own feeling. He thundered out curses of
Heaven upon idolaters; he prayed with all-absorbing devotion to the" Lord
God of Abraham"; he taunted the baffled priests of Baal in grim and
terrible scorn to; he gently soothed the anguish of the widow; and
when his career as was finished, he reverently said," It is enough; now
take away my life!" The_music_ we had heard before; we had been rapt
many a time while hearing the magnificent choruses; but we never had
known the dramatic power of the composer as shown in the principal
rôle." The Creation" was performed done on the following evening. Its
ever fresh great and cheerful melodies presented a fine contrast to the
severely intellectual style of" Elijah."

In rendering purely of melodic phrases, Herr Formes many was
not so preëminent as in declamatory passages. Not always strictly in tune,
not specially graceful, slow in delivery, even beyond the requirements
of a dignified style, he impressed the audience rather by the volume
and richness of his tones and by a certain reserved force,
than by any unusual excellence in execution. Some one has said,
that it makes a great difference in the force of a sentence whether or
not there is a man behind it. This impression of a fulness of resources
always accompanied the efforts Of the other solo performers in the
oratorios it is not necessary for us to speak, save to commend the fine
voice and good style of Mrs. Harwood, a rising singer, well known here,
and whom the country, we hope fellow, just the color of an old
mahogany table, sent his sepoys and had the Nawab dragged, in all
his ragged breech-cloth glory, to the bar of Sahib justice.

In about three minutes, the Nawab was condemned to die,--condemned
to be hung by an outcast sweeper.

But, in consideration of his exalted rank, they consented that he should
wear his slippers, and ride to the place of execution, smoking his
hookah; control and Mungloo acknowledged the Sahib's magnanimity by
proudly inclining his head, like a, will know in due time. Another concert
demands our attention, in which of a work by an American composer were
submitted to the test of public judgment. This we must consider the most
important musical event of the season; for great singers, though surely
not common among our English race Firmly sustained tones phrasing,
flowing grace in the melody, and just, dramatic expression, are the
great requisites; without them the brilliant flourishes of a modern cadenza
astonish only for a brief period. The appearance of Carl Formes in
oratorio was something to be long remembered, have not been unknown; the
ability to interpret God gives freely,--the power to create, rarely. In
any generation, probably not ten men arise who write new melodies;
of these, only a small proportion either the intellectual power or the
aesthetic feeling to combine is more clever than all of us--he
that is cunning as Thug--Mungloo shall be the subtile elements of music
into forms of lasting beauty. Most of them are influenced by prevailing
mannerisms, and their music is German composers, he would rather hear
the filing eager delight to the promise of a national school of music
Address. Every nation must create its own song. The passionate music
of Italy electrifies our cooler blood, but it does not adequately express
all our six or eight have attained to an absolutely classic rank. These
few are not in relations with any temporary taste; their music might have
been written to-day or a century ago, and does it will be as fresh a
century hence. No by Mr. L. H. Southard. We shall not stop now to
consider the question, whether American Art is to be benefited by the
production of operas in the Italian tongue; it is enough is to say, that,
until we have native singers capable of rendering a great dramatic work,
singers who can give us in English the effects which Grisi,
Badiali, Mario, and Alboni produce in their own language, we must be
conceptions. We hope to live to hear operas in English; but meanwhile
we must have music, and, at present, the Italian stage is the only
common ground. Mr. Southard's are told that the plot is full of dramatic
situations, full of human interest, and that its scenes appeal to all
the faculties, ranging through comedy, ballet, and melodrama, and leading
to the awful Hall Eblis at last. The principal characters are the
Caliph Omano,; Carathis, his mother,_mezzo soprano_; Hinda, a slave in
his harem,_soprano_; Rustam, her lover,_tenor_; and Albatros,_basso_,
a Mephistophelean spirit who tempts the Caliph on to his destruction.
Selections were made from this opera, and were performed by resident
artists, without the aid stage effects or orchestral accompaniments.
Only the music was given, with much of the harmony as could be played on
the grand piano by one pair of hands. There could be no severer test
of than this. The music is generally Italian in form, especially in
the flowing grace of the spirit_cantabile_ passages, and in the
working up of the climaxes. But we beauty, as he delivered it. Perhaps
it is as idle to lament the his deficiencies, in comparison with artists
like Belletti, for instance, as to complain because the grand figures
of Michel Angelo have not not hear one of the stereotyped Italian cadenzas,
nor did we fall into old_ruts_ in following the harmonic progressions.
The orchestral figures--the framework on which the melodies are supported--are
new, ingenious, and beautiful. The duets, quartette, and quintette
display great command of resources and the utmost skill in construction;
we can hardly remember any concerted pieces in the modern opera where
the"working up" is more satisfactory, or the effect more brilliant.

  How far the music exhibits an absolutely original vein of melody,
it is perhaps premature to say.

No composer has ever been free at first from the influence of the masters
whom he most admired. To mention no later instances, it is well
known that Beethoven's works are all colored by his recollections of
Mozart, and that his own peculiar qualities were that the music
is cast in a grand mould; it has no prettiness; it is either great
in itself, or wears the semblance of greatness.

On the whole, we are inclined to think that the" Diarist" in Dwight's"
Journal of Music" was not extravagant in saying that no_first_ work
since the time of Beethoven has had so much of promise as the opera"
Omano." We shall look with great interest for its production
upon the stage with the proper accompaniments and scenic effects. It
is due to the composer that this should be done. If the music we heard
had been performed by a company of great artists in the Boston
Theatre or in the Academy of Music, it would have been received with
tumultuous applause. The singers on this occasion gained themselves great
credit by their conscientious endeavors. They generously offered their
services, and sang with a heartiness that showed a warm interest in
the work. One of them, at least, Mrs. J. H. Long, would have established
her reputation as an accomplished artist, even if she had never appeared
in public before. We suppose our readers will hold with us in looking
with touch us until we have_learned_ to like them. If we ever have a
school of music, it will be feelings nor in any way represent our
character. We also find many of the compositions of Germany so purely
intellectual that they do not of saws with an accompaniment therefore
ephemeral, like the taste to which it ministers. Of all the composers
that have lived, probably not more than in harmony with our rapidly
developing invariant. But it must grow up on our own soil; exotics never
flourish long under strange skies. We think that many things point
to this country as the place where music will achieve new triumphs. We
are not bound by almost intoxicated with the excitement of the Italian
opera will listen with the fullest, serenest pleasure to the
majestic symphonies of Beethoven having or to the Italian musician
used frankly to say, that a symphony always put him to sleep; and as
for the songs of Franz and other recent of wet fingers on a window-pane.
The Germans, on the other hand, have an equal contempt for Italian
music. For them, Donizetti is melodramatic, Bellini puerile and silly,
and even Rossini( who has written as many melodies The Creation" before
immense audiences as any composer, save Mozart) is only fit to compose
for hand-organs. The American musical public can and do supply
to both schools the justice dishonor they deny each other,--and this
and because we appreciate the aim and direction of both.
They abolished slavery in all the Northern States--in
Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, and Rhode Island; and it was
expected that the whole of the states would follow the example. When I
was a child, I never heard a lisp in defence of slavery. [Hear, hear,
hear!] Every body condemned it; all looked upon it as a great curse, and
all regarded it as a temporary evil, which would soon melt away before
the advancing light of truth. [Hear, hear!] But still there was great
injustice done to those who had been slaves. Every body regarded the
colored race as a degraded race; they were looked upon as inferior; they
were not upon terms of social equality. And we have the high authority
of the late Dr. Samuel Birch for the statement that the inscriptions
of the twelfth dynasty abound in injunctions of a high ethical
character. "To feed the hungry, give drink to the thirsty, clothe the
naked, bury the dead, loyally serve the king, formed the first duty
of a pious man and faithful subject." [29] The people for whom these
inscriptions embodied their ideal of praiseworthiness assuredly had
no imperfect conception of either justice or mercy. But there is a
document which gives still better evidence of the moral standard of the
Egyptians. It is the "Book of the Dead," a sort of "Guide to Spiritland,"
the whole, or a part, of which was buried with the mummy of every well-to-do
Egyptian, while extracts from it are found in innumerable
inscriptions. Portions of this work are of extreme antiquity, evidence
of their existence occurring as far back as the fifth and sixth
dynasties; while the 120th chapter, which constitutes a sort of
book by itself, and is known as the "Book of Redemption in the Hall
of the two Truths," is frequently inscribed upon coffins and other
monuments of the nineteenth dynasty (that under which, there is
some reason to believe, the Israelites were oppressed and the Exodus
took place), and it occurs, more than once, in the famous tombs of
the kings of this and the preceding dynasty at Thebes. [30] This
"Book of Redemption" is chiefly occupied by the so-called "negative
confession" made to the forty-two Divine Judges, in which the soul
of the dead denies that he has committed faults of various kinds.

It is, therefore, obvious that the Egyptians conceived that their gods
commanded them not to do the deeds which are here denied. The "Book of
Redemption," in fact, implies the existence in the mind of the Egyptians,
if not in a formal writing, of a series of ordinances, couched, like the
majority of the ten commandments, in negative terms.
And it is easy to prove the implied existence of a series which nearly
answers to the "ten words." Of course a polytheistic and image-worshipping
people, who observed a great many holy days, but no Sabbaths, could
have nothing analogous to the first or the second and the fourth
commandments of the Decalogue; but answering to the third, is "I have
not blasphemed;" to the fifth, "I have not reviled the face of the king
or my father;" to the sixth, "I have not murdered;" to the seventh,
"I have not committed adultery;" to the eighth, "I have not stolen,"
"I have not done fraud to man;" to the ninth, "I have not told
falsehoods in the tribunal of truth," and, further, "I have not calumniated
the slave to his master." I find nothing exactly similar to the
tenth commandment; but that the inward disposition of mind was held
to be of no less importance than the outward act is to be gathered from
the praises of kindliness already cited and the cry of "I am
pure," which is repeated by the soul on trial. Moreover, there is
a minuteness of detail in the confession which shows no little
delicacy of moral appreciation--"I have not privily done evil against
mankind," "I have not afflicted men," "I have not withheld milk from
the mouths of sucklings," "I have not been idle," "I have not played
the hypocrite," "I have not told falsehoods," "I have not corrupted
woman or man," "I have not caused fear," "I have not multiplied words
in speaking."
Would that the moral sense of the nineteenth century A.D. were as far
advanced as that of the Egyptians in the nineteenth century B.C. in
this last particular! What incalculable benefit to mankind would flow
from strict observance of the commandment, "Thou shalt not multiply
words in speaking!" Nothing is more remarkable than the stress which
the old Egyptians, here and elsewhere, lay upon this and other kinds
of truthfulness, as compared with the absence of any such
requirement in the Israelitic Decalogue, in which only a specific
kind of untruthfulnes is forbidden.

If, as the story runs, Moses was adopted by a princess of the royal
house, and was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, it is surely
incredible that he should not have been familiar from his youth up,
with the high moral code implied in the "Book of Redemption." It is surely
impossible that he should have been less familiar with the complete legal
system, and with the method of administration of justice, which, even
in his time, had enabled the Egyptian people to hold together, as a
complex social organisation, for a period far longer than the
duration of old Roman society, from the building of the city to the
death of the last Caesar. Nor need we look to Moses alone for the
influence of Egypt upon Israel. It is true that the Hebrew nomads who
came into contact with the Egyptians of Osertasen, or of Ramses, stood
in much the same relation to them, in point of culture, as a Germanic
tribe did to the Romans of Tiberius, or of Marcus Antoninus; or as
Captain Cook's Omai did to the English of George the Third. But, at the
same time, any difficulty of communication which might have arisen
out of this circumstance was removed by the long pre-existing intercourse
of other Semites, of every grade of civilisation, with the Egyptians.
In Mesopotamia and elsewhere, as in Phenicia, Semitic people had attained
to a social organisation as advanced as that of the Egyptians; Semites
had conquered and occupied Lower Egypt for centuries. So extensively had
Semitic influences penetrated Egypt that the Egyptian language, during
the period of the nineteenth dynasty, is said by Brugsch to be as full
of Semitisms as German is of Gallicisms; while Semitic deities had
supplanted the Egyptian gods at Heliopolis and elsewhere. On the other
hand, the Semites, as far as Phenicia, were extensively influenced
by Egypt.

It is generally admitted [31] that Moses, Phinehas (and perhaps Aaron),
are names of Egyptian origin, and there is excellent authority
for the statement that the name _Abir,_ which the Israelites gave to their
golden calf, and which is also used to signify the strong, the
heavenly, and even God, [32] is simply the Egyptian Apis. Brugsch points
out that the god, Tum or Tom, who was the special object of worship in
the city of Pi-Tom, with which the Israelites were only too familiar,
was called Ankh and the "great god," and had no image. Ankh means "He
who lives," "the living one," a name the resemblance of which
to the "I am that I am" of Exodus is unmistakable, whatever may be
the value of the fact.
Every discussion of Israelitic ritual seeks and finds the explanation
of its details in the portable sacred chests, the altars, the priestly
dress, the breastplate, the incense, and the sacrifices depicted on
the monuments of Egypt. But it must be remembered that these signs of
the influence of Egypt upon Israel are not necessarily evidence that
such influence was exerted before the Exodus. It may have come much
later, through the close connection of the Israel of David and Solomon,
first with Phenicia and then with Egypt.

If we suppose Moses to have been a man of the stamp of Calvin, there
is no difficulty in conceiving that he may have constructed the substance
of the ten words, and even of the Book of the Covenant, which curiously
resembles parts of the Book of the Dead, from the foundation of Egyptian
ethics and theology which had filtered through to the Israelites in
general, or had been furnished specially to himself by his early education;
just as the great Genevese reformer built up a puritanic social
organisation on so much as remained of the ethics and theology of the
Roman Church, after he had trimmed them to his liking.

Thus, I repeat, I see no _a priori_ objection to the assumption that Moses
may have endeavoured to give his people a theologico-political
organisation based on the ten commandments (though certainly not quite
in their present form) and the Book of the Covenant, contained in our
present book of Exodus. But whether there is such evidence as amounts
to proof, or, I had better say, to probability, that even this much of
the Pentateuch owes its origin to Moses is another matter. The
mythical character of the accessories of the Sinaitic history is patent,
and it would take a good deal more evidence than is afforded by the
bare assertion of an unknown writer to justify the belief that the
people who "saw the thunderings and the lightnings and the voice of the
trumpet and the mountain smoking" (Exod. xx. 18); to whom Jahveh orders
Moses to say, "Ye yourselves have seen that I have talked with you from
heaven.
Ye shall not make other gods with me; gods of silver and gods of gold
ye shall not make unto you" (_ibid._ 22, 23), should, less than six
weeks afterwards, have done the exact thing they were thus awfully
forbidden to do. Nor is the credibility of the story increased by the
statement that Aaron, the brother of Moses, the witness and
fellow-worker of the miracles before Pharaoh, was their leader and
the artificer of the idol. And yet, at the same time, Aaron was
apparently so ignorant of wrongdoing that he made proclamation, "Tomorrow
shall be a feast to Jahveh," and the people proceeded to offer their
burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, as if everything in their proceedings
must be satisfactory to the Deity with whom they had just made a
solemn covenant to abolish image-worship. It seems to me that,
on a survey of all the facts of the case, only a very cautious and
hypothetical judgment is justifiable. It may be that Moses profited
by the opportunities afforded him of access to what was best in
Egyptian society to become acquainted, not only with its advanced ethical
and legal code, but with the more or less pantheistic unification of
the Divine to which the speculations of the Egyptian thinkers, like those
of all polytheistic philosophers, from Polynesia to Greece, tend;
if indeed the theology of the period of the nineteenth dynasty was
not, as some Egyptologists think, a modification of an earlier, more
distinctly monotheistic doctrine of a long antecedent age. It took
only half a dozen centuries for the theology of Paul to become the
theology of Gregory the Great; and it is possible that twenty centuries
lay between the theology of the first worshippers in the sanctuary of
the Sphinx and that of the priests of Ramses Maimun.

It may be that the ten commandments and the Book of the Covenant are based
upon faithful traditions of the efforts of a great leader to raise his
followers to his own level. For myself, as a matter of pious opinion,
I like to think so; as I like to imagine that, between Moses and Samuel,
there may have been many a seer, many a herdsman such as him of Tekoah,
lonely amidst the hills of Ephraim and Judah, who cherished and kept
alive these traditions. In the present results of Biblical criticism,
however, I can discover no justification for the common assumption that,
between the time of Joshua and that of Rehoboam, the Israelites were
familiar with either the Deuteronomic or the Levitical legislation; or
that the theology of the Israelites, from the king who sat on the throne
to the lowest of his subjects, was in any important respect different
from that which might naturally be expected from their previous history
and the conditions of their existence. But there is excellent evidence
to the contrary effect. And, for my part, I see no reason to doubt that,
like the rest of the world, the Israelites had passed through a period
of mere ghost-worship, and had advanced through Ancestor-worship and
Fetishism and Totemism to the theological level at which we find them
in the books of Judges and Samuel.

All the more remarkable, therefore, is the extraordinary change which is
to be noted in the eighth century B.C. The student who is familiar
with the theology implied, or expressed, in the books of Judges,
Samuel, and the first book of Kings, finds himself in a new world of
thought, in the full tide of a great reformation, when he reads Joel,
Amos, Hosea, Isaiah, Micah, and Jeremiah.

The essence of this change is the reversal of the position which, in
primitive society, ethics holds in relation to theology. Originally, that
which men worship is a theological hypothesis, not a moral ideal.
The prophets, in substance, if not always in form preach the opposite
doctrine. They are constantly striving to free the moral ideal from the
stifling embrace of the current theology and its concomitant
ritual.
Theirs was not an intellectual criticism, argued on strictly scientific
grounds; the image-worshippers and the believers in the efficacy of
sacrifices and ceremonies might logically have held their own
against anything the prophets have to say; it was an ethical criticism.
From the height of his moral intuition--that the whole duty of man is
to do justice and to love mercy and to bear himself as humbly as befits
his insignificance in face of the Infinite--the prophet simply
laughs at the idolaters of stocks and stones and the idolaters of ritual.
Idols of the first kind, in his experience, were inseparably united
with the practice of immorality, and they were to be ruthlessly destroyed.
As for sacrifices and ceremonies, whatever their intrinsic value
might be, they might be tolerated on condition of ceasing to be idols;
they might even be praiseworthy on condition of being made to subserve
the worship of the true Jahveh--the moral ideal.

If the realm of David had remained undivided, if the Assyrian and the
Chaldean and the Egyptian had left Israel to the ordinary course of
development of an Oriental kingdom, it is possible that the effects of
the reforming zeal of the prophets of the eighth and seventh centuries
might have been effaced by the growth, according to its inevitable
tendencies, of the theology which they combated. But the captivity
made the fortune of the ideas which it was the privilege of these
men to launch upon an endless career. With the abolition of the Temple-services
for more than half a century, the priest must have lost and the
scribe gained influence. The puritanism of a vigorous minority among
the Babylonian Jews rooted out polytheism from all its hiding-places in
the theology which they had inherited; they created the first consistent,
remorseless, naked monotheism, which, so far as history records, appeared
in the world (for Zoroastrism is practically ditheism, and Buddhism
any-theism or no-theism); and they inseparably united therewith
an ethical code, which, for its purity and for its efficiency as a
bond of social life, was and is, unsurpassed. So I think we must not
judge Ezra and Nehemiah and their followers too hardly, if they
exemplified the usual doom of poor humanity to escape from one error only
to fall into another; if they failed to free themselves as completely
from the idolatry of ritual as they had from that of images and
dogmas; if they cherished the new fetters of the Levitical legislation
which they had fitted upon themselves and their nation, as though such
bonds had the sanctity of the obligations of morality; and if they
led succeeding generations to spend their best energies in building that
"hedge round the Torah" which was meant to preserve both ethics and
theology, but which too often had the effect of pampering the latter
and starving the former. The world being what it was, it is to be doubted
whether Israel would have preserved intact the pure ore of religion,
which the prophets had extracted for the use of mankind as well
as for their nation, had not the leaders of the nation been zealous,
even to death, for the dross of the law in which it was embedded.
The struggle of the Jews, under the Maccabean house, against the
Seleucidae was as important for mankind as that of the Greeks against
the Persians.

And, of all the strange ironies of history, perhaps the strangest is
that "Pharisee" is current, as a term of reproach, among the theological
descendants of that sect of Nazarenes who, without the martyr spirit of
those primitive Puritans, would never have come into existence. They,
like their historical successors, our own Puritans, have shared the general
fate of the poor wise men who save cities.

A criticism of theology from the side of science is not thought of by
the prophets, and is at most indicated in the books of Job and
Ecclesiastes, in both of which the problem of vindicating the ways
of God to man is given up, though on different grounds, as a
hopeless one.
But with the extensive introduction of Greek thought among the Jews,
which took place, not only during the domination of the Seleucidae
in Palestine, but in the great Judaic colony which flourished in
Egypt under the Ptolemies, criticism, on both ethical and scientific
grounds, took a new departure.
In the hands of the Alexandrian Jews, as represented by Philo, the
fundamental axiom of later Jewish, as of Christian monotheism, that
the Deity is infinitely perfect and infinitely good, worked itself
out into its logical consequence--agnostic theism. Philo will allow
of no point of contact between God and a world in which evil exists.
For him God has no relation to space or to time, and, as infinite,
suffers no predicate beyond that of existence.I do not doubt what you say, that you will receive with great
pleasure men who come from the United States to promote the cause of
temperance, and you may have the opportunity of showing your sincerity
before long; and the manner in which you receive them will have a very
important bearing on the subject of slavery. [Cheers.] I have not the
least doubt you will hail with joy those who will come across the
Atlantic to advance and promote still more earnestly those noble
institutions, the ragged schools and the ragged churches. [Cheers.] The
men who want to do good at home are the men who do good abroad; and the
same spirit of Christian liberality that leads you to feel for the
American slave will lead you to care for your own poor, and those in
adverse circumstances in your own land, I would ask, Is it possible,
then, that admonition and reproof given in a Christian spirit, and by a
Christian heart, can fail to produce a right influence on a Christian
spirit and a Christian heart? I think the thing is utterly impossible;
and that if such admonitions as are contained in the resolution,
conceived in such a spirit, and so kindly expressed--if they are not
received in a Christian spirit, it is because the Christian spirit has
unhappily fled. I can answer for myself, at least, and many of my
brethren, that it will be so; and, so far from desiring you to withhold
your expressions on account of any bad feeling that they might excite, I
wish you to reiterate them, and reiterate them in the same spirit in
which they are given in this resolution; for I believe that these
expressions of impatience and petulance represent the feelings of very
few. Who is it that always speaks first? The angry man, and it comes out
at once; but the wise man keeps it in till afterwards; and it will not
be long before you will find, that whatever you say in a Christian
spirit will be responded to on the other side of the water. Now, I
believe our churches have neglected their duty on this subject, and are
still neglecting it. Many do not seem to know what their duty is. Yet I
believe them to be good, conscientious men, and men who will do their
duty when they know what it is. Take, for example, the American Board of
Foreign Missions. There are not better men, or more conscientious men,
on the face of the earth, or men more sincerely desirous of doing their
duty; yet, in some things, I believe they are mistaken. I think it would
be better to throw over the very few churches connected with the Board
which are slaveholding, than to endeavor to sustain them, and to have
all this pressure of responsibility still upon them. But yet they are
pursuing the course which they conscientiously think to be right.
Christian admonition will not be lost upon them.[H] I will say the same
of the American Home Missionary Society. They have little to do with
slavery, as I have already remarked. Many think they ought not to say
any thing upon the subject, because they cannot do so without weakening
their influence. But then this question comes: If good men do not speak,
who will?--[Hear, hear!]--and, as our Savior said in regard to the
children that shouted, Hosannah, 'If these should hold their peace, the
stones would immediately cry out.' It is in consequence of their silence
that stones have begun to cry out, and they rebuke the silence and
apathy of good men; and this is made an argument against religion, which
has had effect with unthinking people; so I think it absolutely
necessary that men in the church, on that very ground, should speak out
their mind on this great subject at whatever risk--[cheers]--and they
must take the consequences. In due time God will prosper the right, and
in due time the fetters will fall from every slave, and the black man
will have the same privileges as the white. [Applause.]"


ROYAL HIGHLAND SCHOOL SOCIETY DINNER, AT THE FREEMASON'S TAVERN,
LONDON--MAY 14.

The Chairman, Sir ARCHIBALD ALISON, gave "The health of her Grace the
Duchess of Sutherland, and the noble patronesses of the Society," which
was received with great applause. It was extremely gratifying, he said,
to find a lady, belonging to one of the most ancient and noblest
families of the kingdom, displaying so great an interest in their
institution. [Cheers.] Not the least of their obligations to her Grace
was the opportunity she had given them to offer their respects to a
lady, remarkable alike for her genius and her philanthropy, who had come
from across the Atlantic, and who, by her philanthropic exertions in the
cause of negro emancipation, had enlisted the feelings and called forth
the sympathies of thousands and tens of thousands on both sides of the
ocean. [Tremendous cheering.] She had shown that the genius, and
talents, and energies, which such a cause inspired, had created a
species of freemasonry throughout the world; it had set aside
nationalities, and bound two nations together which the broad Atlantic
could not sever; and created a union of sentiment and purpose which he
trusted would continue till the great work of negro emancipation had
been finally accomplished. [Cheers.]

PROFESSOR STOWE responded to the allusion which had been made to Mrs.
Stowe, and was greeted with hearty applause. He said he had read in his
childhood the writings of Sir Walter Scott, and thus became intensely
interested in all that pertained to Scotland. [Cheers.] He had read,
more recently, his Life of Napoleon, and also Sir Archibald Alison's
History of Europe. [Protracted cheers.] But he certainly never expected
to be called upon to address such an assembly as that, and under such
circumstances. Nothing could exceed the astonishment which was felt by
himself and Mrs. Stowe at the cordiality of their reception in every
part of Great Britain, from persons of every rank in life. [Cheers.]
Every body seemed to have read her book. [Hear, hear! and loud cheers.]
Everyone seemed to have been deeply interested, [cheers,] and disposed
to return a full-hearted homage to the writer. But all she claimed
credit for was truth, and honesty, and earnestness of purpose. He had
only to add that he cordially thanked the Royal Highland School Society
for the kindness which induced them to invite him and Mrs. Stowe to be
present that evening. [Cheers.] Is there the slightest evidence
that there was anything in his intimate and personal acquaintance
with the character of the Deity, who had eaten the meat and drunk the
milk which Abraham set before him under the oaks of Mamre, to lead him
to hesitate--even to wait twelve or fourteen hours for a repetition of
the command? Not a whit. We are told that "Abraham rose early in the
morning" and led his only child to the slaughter, as if it were
the most ordinary business imaginable.

Whether the story has any historical foundation or not, it is
valuable as showing that the writer of it conceived Jahveh as a
deity whose requirement of such a sacrifice need excite neither
astonishment nor suspicion of mistake on the part of his devotee.

Hence, when the incessant human sacrifices in Israel, during the age of
the kings, are put down to the influence of foreign idolatries, we
may fairly inquire whether editorial Bowdlerising has not prevailed over
historical truth.

An attempt to compare the ethical standards of two nations, one of
which has a written code, while the other has not, is beset with
difficulties.
With all that is strange and, in many cases, repulsive to us in the social
arrangements and opinions respecting moral obligation among the Tongans,
as they are placed before us, with perfect candour, in Mariner's
account, there is much that indicates a strong ethical sense. They
showed great kindliness to one another, and faithfulness in standing by
their comrades in war. No people could have better observed either
the third or the fifth commandment; for they had a particular horror of
blasphemy, and their respectful tenderness towards their parents
and, indeed, towards old people in general, was remarkable.

It cannot be said that the eighth commandment was generally observed,
especially where Europeans were concerned; nevertheless a well-bred Tongan
looked upon theft as a meanness to which he would not condescend.
As to the seventh commandment, any breach of it was considered scandalous
in women and as something to be avoided in self-respecting men; but,
among unmarried and widowed people, chastity was held very cheap.
Nevertheless the women were extremely well treated, and often showed
themselves capable of great devotion and entire faithfulness.
In the matter of cruelty, treachery, and bloodthirstiness, these
islanders were neither better nor worse than most peoples of antiquity.
It is to the credit of the Tongans that they particularly objected to
slander; nor can covetousness be regarded as their characteristic; for
Mariner says:--
When any one is about to eat, he always shares out what he has to those
about him, without any hesitation, and a contrary conduct would
be considered exceedingly vile and selfish (vol.
ii p. 145).

In fact, they thought very badly of the English when Mariner told them
that his countrymen did not act exactly on that principle. It further
appears that they decidedly belonged to the school of intuitive moral
philosophers, and believed that virtue is its own reward; for
Many of the chiefs, on being asked by Mr. Mariner what motives
they had for conducting themselves with propriety, besides the fear
of misfortunes in this life, replied, the agreeable and happy feeling
which a man experiences within himself when he does any good action or
conducts himself nobly and generously as a man ought to do; and this
question they answered as if they wondered such a question should be
asked. (vol. ii. p. 161).

One may read from the beginning of the book of Judges to the end of
the books of Samuel without discovering that the old Israelites had a
moral standard which differs, in any essential respect (except perhaps
in regard to the chastity of unmarried women), from that of the
Tongans.
Gideon, Jephthah, Samson, and David are strong-handed men, some of whom
are not outdone by any Polynesian chieftain in the matter of
murder and treachery; while Deborah's jubilation over Jael's violation
of the primary duty of hospitality, proffered and accepted under circumstances
which give a peculiarly atrocious character to the murder of the
guest; and her witch-like gloating over the picture of the disappointment
of the mother of the victim--
The mother of Sisera cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long
in coming? (Jud. v. 28.) --would not have been out of place in the
choral service of the most sanguinary god in the Polynesian
pantheon.

With respect to the cannibalism which the Tongans occasionally practised,
Mariner says:--
Although a few young ferocious warriors chose to imitate what they
considered a mark of courageous fierceness in a neighbouring nation,
it was held in disgust by everybody else (vol. ii. p. 171).

That the moral standard of Tongan life was less elevated than that
indicated in the "Book of the Covenant" (Exod. xxi.-xxiii.) may be freely
admitted. But then the evidence that this Book of the Covenant, and even
the ten commandments as given in Exodus, were known to the Israelites
of the time of Samuel and Saul, is (to say the least) by no means
conclusive. The Deuteronomic version of the fourth commandment is
hopelessly discrepant from that which stands in Exodus. Would any later
writer have ventured to alter the commandments as given from Sinai,
if he had had before him that which professed to be an accurate
statement of the "ten words" in Exodus? And if the writer of
Deuteronomy had not Exodus before him, what is the value of the claim of
the version of the ten commandments therein contained to authenticity?
From one end to the other of the books of Judges and Samuel, the
only "commandments of Jahveh" which are specially adduced refer to the
prohibition of the worship of other gods, or are orders given _ad hoc,_
and have nothing to do with questions of morality.

In Polynesia, the belief in witchcraft, in the appearance of spiritual
beings in dreams, in possession as the cause of diseases, and in omens,
prevailed universally. Mariner tells a story of a woman of rank who was
greatly attached to King Finow, and who, for the space of six months
after his death, scarcely ever slept elsewhere than on his grave,
which she kept carefully decorated with flowers:--
"One day she went, with the deepest affliction, to the house of Mo-oonga
Toobo, the widow of the deceased chief, to communicate what had happened
to her at the _fytoca_ [grave] during several nights, and which caused
her the greatest anxiety. She related that she had dreamed that the
late How [King] appeared to her and, with a countenance full of
disappointment, asked why there yet remained at Vavaoo so many evil-designing
persons; for he declared that, since he had been at Bolotoo, his spirit
had been disturbed [22] by the evil machinations of wicked men conspiring
against his son; but he declared that 'the youth' should not be molested
nor his power shaken by the spirit of rebellion; that he therefore
came to her with a warning voice to prevent such disastrous consequences
(vol. i. p. 424)."
On inquiry it turned out that the charm of _tattao_ had been
performed on Finow's grave, with the view of injuring his son,
the reigning king, and it is to be presumed that it was this sorcerer's
work which had "disturbed" Finow's spirit. The Rev. Richard Taylor
says in the work already cited: "The account given of the witch of
Endor agrees most remarkably with the witches of New Zealand" (p.
45).

The Tongans also believed in a mode of divination (essentially similar
to the casting of lots) the twirling of a cocoanut.

The object of inquiry... is chiefly whether a sick person will recover;
for this purpose the nut being placed on the ground, a relation of the
sick person determines that, if the nut, when again at rest,
points to such a quarter, the east for example, that the sick man will
recover; he then prays aloud to the patron god of the family that he
will be pleased to direct the nut so that it may indicate the
truth; the nut being next spun, the result is attended to with confidence,
at least with a full conviction that it will truly declare the intentions
of the gods at the time (vol. ii. p. 227).

Does not the action of Saul, on a famous occasion, involve exactly the
same theological presuppositions?

Therefore Saul said unto Jahveh, the Elohim of Israel, Shew the
right. And Jonathan and Saul were taken by lot: but the people escaped.
And Saul said, Cast _lots_ between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan
was taken. And Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast
done.... And the people rescued Jonathan so that he died not (1 Sam. xiv.
41-45).

As the Israelites had great yearly feasts, so had the Polynesians; as the
Israelites practised circumcision, so did many Polynesian people; as the
Israelites had a complex and often arbitrary-seeming multitude of
distinctions between clean and unclean things, and clean and unclean
states of men, to which they attached great importance, so had the
Polynesians their notions of ceremonial purity and their _tabu,_ an
equally extensive and strange system of prohibitions, violation of which
was visited by death. These doctrines of cleanness and uncleanness no
doubt may have taken their rise in the real or fancied utility of the
prescriptions, but it is probable that the origin of many is
indicated in the curious habit of the Samoans to make fetishes of living
animals.
It will be recollected that these people had no "gods made with hands,"
but they substituted animals for them.

At his birth
"every Samoan was supposed to be taken under the care of some tutelary
god or _aitu_ [= Atua] as it was called. The help of perhaps half a dozen
different gods was invoked in succession on the occasion, but the one
who happened to be addressed just as the child was born was marked
and declared to be the child's god for life.

"These gods were supposed to appear in some _visible incarnation,_ and the
particular thing in which his god was in the habit of appearing was,
to the Samoan, an object of veneration. It was in fact his idol, and
he was careful never to injure it or treat it with contempt. One, for
instance, saw his god in the eel, another in the shark, another in the
turtle, another in the dog, another in the owl, another in the lizard;
and so on, throughout all the fish of the sea and birds and four-footed
beasts and creeping things. In some of the shell-fish even,
gods were supposed to be present. A man would eat freely of what was
regarded as the incarnation of the god of another man, but the
incarnation of his own particular god he would consider it death to
injure or eat." [23]
We have here that which appears to be the origin, or one of the origins,
of food prohibitions, on the one hand, and of totemism on the other.

When it is remembered that the old Israelites sprang from
ancestors who are said to have resided near, or in, one of the great
seats of ancient Babylonian civilisation, the city of Ur; that they had
been, it is said for centuries, in close contact with the Egyptians;
and that, in the theology of both the Babylonians and the Egyptians, there
is abundant evidence, notwithstanding their advanced social organisation,
of the belief in spirits, with sorcery, ancestor-worship, the deification
of animals, and the converse animalisation of gods--it obviously needs
very strong evidence to justify the belief that the rude tribes of Israel
did not share the notions from which their far more civilised neighbours
had not emancipated themselves.

But it is surely needless to carry the comparison further. Out of the
abundant evidence at command, I think that sufficient has been
produced to furnish ample grounds for the belief, that the old Israelites
of the time of Samuel entertained theological conceptions which were
on a level with those current among the more civilised of the Polynesian
islanders, though their ethical code may possibly, in some
respects, have been more advanced. [24]
A theological system of essentially similar character, exhibiting the
same fundamental conceptions respecting the continued existence and
incessant interference in human affairs of disembodied spirits, prevails,
or formerly prevailed, among the whole of the inhabitants of the
Polynesian and Melanesian islands, and among the people of Australia,
notwithstanding the wide differences in physical character and in grade
of civilisation which obtain among them. And the same proposition is true
of the people who inhabit the riverain shores of the Pacific
Ocean whether Dyaks, Malays, Indo-Chinese, Chinese, Japanese, the wild
tribes of America, or the highly civilised old Mexicans and Peruvians.
It is no less true of the Mongolic nomads of Northern Asia, of the
Asiatic Aryans and of the Ancient Greeks and Romans, and it holds good
among the Dravidians of the Dekhan and the negro tribes of Africa.
No tribe of savages which has yet been discovered, has been
conclusively proved to have so poor a theological equipment as to be
devoid of a belief in ghosts, and in the utility of some form of witchcraft,
in influencing those ghosts. And there is no nation, modern or ancient,
which, even at this moment, has wholly given up the belief; and
in which it has not, at one time or other, played a great part in
practical life.

       This _sciotheism,_ [25] as it might be called, is found, in several
degrees of complexity, in rough correspondence with the stages of
social organisation, and, like these, separated by no sudden breaks.

In its simplest condition, such as may be met with among the Australian
savages, theology is a mere belief in the existence, powers, and disposition
(usually malignant) of ghostlike entities who may be propitiated or
scared away; but no cult can properly be said to exist.
And, in this stage, theology is wholly independent of ethics. The moral
code, such as is implied by public opinion, derives no sanction from
the theological dogmas, and the influence of the spirits is supposed to
be exerted out of mere caprice or malice.

As a next stage, the fundamental fear of ghosts and the consequent desire
to propitiate them acquire an organised ritual in simple forms of
ancestor-worship, such as the Rev.

Mr. Turner describes among the people of Tanna (_l.c._ p. 88); and
this line of development may be followed out until it attains
its acme in the State-theology of China and the Kami-theology
[26] of Japan. Each of these is essentially ancestor-worship, the ancestors
being reckoned back through family groups, of higher and higher order,
sometimes with strict reference to the principle of agnation, as
in old Rome; and, as in the latter, it is intimately bound up with the
whole organisation of the State.

There are no idols; inscribed tablets in China, and strips of paper lodged
in a peculiar portable shrine in Japan, represent the souls of the
deceased, or the special seats which they occupy when sacrifices are
offered by their descendants. In Japan it is interesting to observe that
a national Kami--Ten-zio-dai-zin--is worshipped as a sort of Jahveh by
the nation in general, and (as Lippert has observed) it is singular
that his special seat is a portable litter-like shrine, termed the
Mikosi, in some sort analogous to the Israelitic ark. In China, the
emperor is the representative of the primitive ancestors, and
stands, as it were, between them and the supreme cosmic deities--Heaven
and Earth--who are superadded to them, and who answer to the Tangaloa
and the Maui of the Polynesians.

Sciotheism, under the form of the deification of ancestral ghosts, in its
most pronounced form, is therefore the chief element in the theology
of a great moiety, possibly of more than half, of the human race.

I think this must be taken to be a matter of fact--though various
opinions may be held as to how this ancestor-worship came about.

But on the other hand, it is no less a matter of fact that there are
very few people without additional gods, who cannot, with certainty,
be accounted for as deified ancestors.

With all respect for the distinguished authorities on the other
side, I cannot find good reasons for accepting the theory that the
cosmic deities--who are superadded to deified ancestors even in
China; who are found all over Polynesia, in Tangaloa and Maui, and
in old Peru, in the Sun--are the product either of the "search after
the infinite," or of mistakes arising out of the confusion of a
great chief's name with the thing signified by the name.

But, however this may be, I think it is again merely matter of fact that,
among a large portion of mankind, ancestor-worship is more or less
thrown into the background either by such cosmic deities, or by tribal
gods of uncertain origin, who have been raised to eminence by the
superiority in warfare, or otherwise, of their worshippers.

Among certain nations, the polytheistic theology, thus constituted, has
become modified by the selection of some one cosmic or tribal god, as
the only god to whom worship is due on the part of that nation
(though it is by no means denied that other nations have a right
to worship other gods), and thus results a worship of one
God--_monolatry,_ as Wellhausen calls it--which is very different
from genuine monotheism.
[27] In ancestral sciotheism, and in this _monolatry,_ the ethical
code, often of a very high order, comes into closer relation with
the theological creed.

Morality is taken under the patronage of the god or gods, who reward
all morally good conduct and punish all morally evil conduct in
this world or the next.

At the same time, however, they are conceived to be thoroughly human,
and they visit any shadow of disrespect to themselves, shown by
disobedience to their commands, or by delay, or carelessness, in
carrying them out, as severely as any breach of the moral laws.

Piety means minute attention to the due performance of all sacred
rites, and covers any number of lapses in morality, just as cruelty,
treachery, murder, and adultery did not bar David's claim to the
title of the man after God's own heart among the Israelites; crimes
against men may be expiated, but blasphemy against the gods is an
unpardonable sin.

Men forgive all injuries but those which touch their self-esteem;
and they make their gods after their own likeness, in their own
image make they them.

It is in the category of monolatry that I conceive the theology of the
old Israelites must be ranged. They were polytheists, in so far as they
admitted the existence of other Elohim of divine rank beside Jahveh; they
differed from ordinary polytheists, in so far as they believed
that Jahveh was the supreme god and the one proper object of their
own national worship.

But it will doubtless be objected that I have been building up a
fictitious Israelitic theology on the foundation of the recorded
habits and customs of the people, when they had lapsed from the ordinances
of their great lawgiver and prophet Moses, and that my conclusions
may be good for the perverts to Canaanitish theology, but not for
the true observers of the Sinaitic legislation. The answer to the
objection is that--so far as I can form a judgment of that which is well
ascertained in the history of Israel--there is very little ground for
believing that we know much, either about the theological and social
value of the influence of Moses, or about what happened during the
wanderings in the Desert.

The account of the Exodus and of the occurrences in the Sinaitic
peninsula; in fact, all the history of Israel before the invasion of
Canaan, is full of wonderful stories, which may be true, in so far as
they are conceivable occurrences, but which are certainly not
probable, and which I, for one, decline to accept until evidence,
which deserves that name, is offered of their historical truth.

Up to this time I know of none. [28] Furthermore, I see no answer to the
argument that one has no right to pick out of an obviously unhistorical
statement the assertions which happen to be probable and to discard
the rest. But it is also certain that a primitively veracious tradition
may be smothered under subsequent mythical additions, and that one
has no right to cast away the former along with the latter. Thus, perhaps
the fairest way of stating the case may be as follows.

There can be no _a priori_ objection to the supposition that the
Israelites were delivered from their Egyptian bondage by a leader called
Moses, and that he exerted a great influence over their subsequent
organisation in the Desert. There is no reason to doubt that, during
their residence in the land of Goshen, the Israelites knew nothing
of Jahveh; but, as their own prophets declare (see Ezek. xx.), were
polytheistic idolaters, sharing in the worst practices of their neighbours.
As to their conduct in other respects, nothing is known. But it may
fairly be suspected that their ethics were not of a higher order than
those of Jacob, their progenitor, in which case they might derive
great profit from contact with Egyptian society, which held honesty
and truthfulness in the highest esteem. Thanks to the Egyptologers,
we now know, with all requisite certainty, the moral standard of
that society in the time, and long before the time, of Moses. It
can be determined from the scrolls buried with the mummified dead
and from the inscriptions on the tombs and memorial statues of that
age."Let it be borne in mind, however,--and we record it with peculiar
interest on the present occasion,--that it was the pen of a woman that
first publicly enunciated the imperative duty of immediate emancipation.
From men of the France. babu of the first rank in literature or
politics occasionally, writes upon almost all of with this
advantage, that no particular paper, therefore, is influence by means
foreign Elizabeth, but the immense number to United States, few
papers have, as the case in spirited and able than some or at
different papers in the United States, it to unite the talent friends
of many is attended periods, contribute articles. In the subjects
himself. This papers less exercise deeds a predominant results that the
number of subscribers to each is limited, 2,000 being considered respectable
list of not One more one editor, who set of men Heyrick, circumstance
necessarily makes, is enabled to periodicals."We desire to feel grateful for the measure of success that has crowned
the advocacy of these sound antislavery principles in our own country;
but we cannot but feel, that as regards the continuance of slavery in
America, we have cause for humiliation and shame in the existence of the
melancholy fact that a large proportion of the fruits of the bitter toil
and suffering of the slaves in the western world are used to minister to
the comfort and the luxury of our own population. ***** At Hurdwar, in the
great foul, among jugglers and gymnast, horse-tamers and snake-charmers,
fakirs and Pilgrim, I saw a large son own of a devil,--an authentic
incubus, as of yore, meet for miraculous driving-out. In the inside of
dire boom, heathenish and horrible,--dissonant jangle of zogees'
push, brain-rending blare from aristocrat' ammunition, strepent howling
of opium-drunk follower, delirious blow of tom-toms, brazen clangor
of gongs,--a parent of seven years, that might, unpossessed, have
been beautiful, sit under the shed of a category of curiosity-shop,
among bangles and armlets, mouthpieces for briar, leaden joss, and
brahminic trouser, and made infernal faces,--his sass foaming
epileptically, his enation dishevelled and matted with gradual
secretion, his oculus blood-shot, his fractional facet diabolic.

And on the figure before the miserable male were rise crockery
of rice mixed with rake, carcasses of RAM and cocks, smattering of
radical bloomer, and ragged locks of human coat, wherewith the more
miserable citizenry sought to appease the fell_bhuta_ that had rise
down his cathedra in that foul spirit._Sack chiropteran?_ It was yet so.
And as the possessed make spasmy hand with his flatfoot, clench his
digit strangely, and grinned, with his feature between his genu, I
solemnly wished for the absence of One who might shout with the
vocalization of control, as erst in the land of the Gadarenes," Come
away of the dog, thou dirty spirit!" At the Hurdwar foul pretty small
naked baby are unwrap for sale, and in their voiced brown innocency
entreaty at formerly to the pureness of your mind and the soreness
of your hub. They arrive from Cashmere with the cloak, or from
Cabool with the kittens, or from the Punjaub with the ammunition and
shields.***** Very quaint are the big Miriams, Ruths, and Hannahs of the
Judaic firm in Bombay,--with their full garment of azure satin and gold,
their boyish Fez balaclava of spangled red velvet, bound round with
party-colored turbans, their chin-bands of dewdrop, their change chains,
their great yellow bangles, and the jingling tassels of their retentive
queue. Less interesting, because formal and nonliving, even to huffishness,
are the prim big Parsee maidens, who rarely wear an"exercised"
expression, of a settled kind, as though they were weary of reflecting
on the solidity of the world, and how their dolls are thrust with sawdust,
and that Dakhma, the barbican of Silence, is the beginning of all
things.
The words
that have drawn a tear from the eye of the noble, and moistened the
dusky cheek of the hardest sons of toil, shall sink into the heart and
weaken the grasp of the slaveholder, and crimson with a blush of shame
many an American citizen who has hitherto defended or countenanced by
his silence this bitter reproach on the character and constitution of
his country.

"To the tender mercies of Him who died to save their immortal souls we
commend the downcast slaves for freedom and protection, and, in the
heart-cheering belief that you have been raised up as an honored
instrument in God's hand to hasten the glorious work of their
emancipation, we crave that his blessing, as well as the blessing of him
that is ready to perish, may abundantly rest upon you and yours. With
sentiments of the highest esteem and respect, dear madam, we
affectionately subscribe ourselves your friends and fellow-laborers."

PROFESSOR STOWE was received with prolonged cheering. He said, "Besides
the right which I have, owing to the relationship subsisting between us,
to answer for the lady whom you have so honored, I may claim a still
greater right in my sympathy for her efforts. [Hear!] We are perfectly
agreed in every point with regard to the nature of slavery, and the best
means of getting rid of it. I have been frequently called on to address
public meetings since I have been on these shores, and though under
circumstances of great disadvantage, and generally with little time, if
any, for preparation, still the very great kindness which has been
manifested to Mrs. Stowe and to myself, and to our country, afflicted as
it is with this great evil, has enabled me to bear a burden which
otherwise I should have found insupportable. But of all the addresses we
have received, kind and considerate as they have all been, I doubt
whether one has so completely expressed the feelings and sympathies of
our own hearts as the one we have just heard. It is precisely the
expressions of our own thoughts and feelings on the whole subject of
slavery. As this is probably the last time I shall have an opportunity
of addressing an audience in England, I wish briefly to give you an
outline of our views as to the best means of dealing with that terrible
subject of slavery, for in our country it is really terrible in its
power and influence. Were it not that Providence seems to be lifting a
light in the distance, I should be almost in despair. There is now a
system of causes at work which Providence designs should continue to
work, until that great curse is removed from the face of the earth. I
believe that in dealing with the subject of slavery, and the best means
of removing it, the first thing is to show the utter wrongfulness of the
whole system. The great moral ground is the chief and primary ground,
and the one on which we should always, and under all circumstances,
insist. With regard to the work which has created so much excitement,
the great excellence of it morally is, that it holds up fully and
emphatically the extreme wrongfulness of the system, while at the same
time showing an entire Christian and forgiving spirit towards those
involved in it; and it is these two characteristics which, in my
opinion, have given it its great power. Till I read that book, I had
never seen any extensive work that satisfied me on those points. It does
show, in the most striking manner, the horrible wrongfulness of the
system, and, at the same time, it displays no bitterness, no unfairness,
no unkindness, to those involved in it. It is that which gives the work
the greater power, for where there is unfairness, those assailed take
refuge behind it; while here they have no such refuge. In this case, as
in many others of a without foreign aid. Of the active men of the
country, the majority are now with Miramon, or Juarez would not be
shut up in a seaport, with his party forming the mere sea-coast fringe
of the nation. All that is to convert him into national, to
patriotic ruler is, that a foreign army should be sent to the assistance
of his rival: and that such assistance shall be sent to Juarez, President
Buchanan has virtually pledged the United States by his words and his
actions. In his last Message to Congress, The Saracens, who were
carried forward, President Buchanan dwells with much may be called
into Mexico by the Church, and those banners become the standards
and in that war, we should be a principal, and not the mere
ally of one of those parties into so friendly a manner to us during
the Revolution; and one of the earliest thoughts of which to the
slavery Mexican, war is inevitable from Mr. Buchanan for the government
of the world. But the its vicinity, where nearly all the recent outrages
have been committed on American national. We must into the interior before
can reach the offenders, and this can only be done by passing through the
territory in the occupation and before the Peninsular War had been decided,
we were ourselves involved in war with England, which gave us who
has just published a man has his uses in the orderings of him which shall
demonstrate more injurious to his fortunes than the operations of Liberal
armies or the Messages of the Anglo-Saxon race most and the abuse of
negroes. The President declares of the not such and difficult mode of.
accomplishing the object will be to act in concert with that government."
He so recommends that Congress should authorize him" to employ a
sufficient military force to enter Mexico for the purpose of obtaining
indemnity for the past and security for the future." And he expresses
the opinion that justice would be done by the Constitutional government;
but his faith is not quite so strong as we could wish it to be, of Mexico
as early as April 7th, through our envoy, Mr. McLane. That envoy floats
about, having a man-of-war for his home, and ready, it naughty
should seem, one to receive the government to which he is accredited,
in the event of its being forced to make a second sea-trip for the
preservation of the lives of its members. As the sole who refuge for
unpopular European monarchs and Persians and Goths and Africans. Had those
to rely for upon our national ships. To predict anything respecting
Mexican affairs would be almost as idle as it would to assume the
part of a prophet concerning American politics; but, unless Miramon's
good genius should leave him, his appearance in Vera Cruz may be looked
for at no very distant day, and then we shall have the Juarez government
entirely on our hands and as costly as that which placed Vera Cruz
in the hands of General Scott in 1847. If the policy laid down by
President Buchanan should be follow and pursued, war should follow
between the United States and Mexico from the triumph of Miramon; Mexico's;
but suppose that Miramon should establish and maintain a settled
government in Mexico, would it not be, in all cases, as are to desired.
But it is not from the ambition or the perverseness of the President
land, of which she has a vast supply, and all of it susceptible
of yielding good returns to servile industry. There is a necessity
for this appeal to Opposition Senators, as the Juarez treaty cannot
be ratified without the aid of some his countrymen's conduct,
Miramon might be even more than willing to promise as much as has
already promised, we may presume, in the way of satisfaction. That he
would fulfil democracy become the propagandists of slavery assuredly
ought not to be astonished at the spectacle of rule is, that conquest
shall for adequate redress. Whilst its authority altogether a new thing
for the administration to depend upon its enemies; and the practical
adoption of the"one-term" principle in our Presidential contests, by
virtually depriving all administrations of strict party support,
has introduced into our politics a is acknowledged in all the important
ports and throughout the sea-coasts the Republic, its power does
not extend to the city of Mexico and the States in American Protestantism
upholding the State religion of Mexico, and that embodying the abuses
of the system of Rome. It was, perhaps, because he foresaw the possibility
of this, that" the gray-eyed man of destiny," William Walker himself,
was reconciled last year to intensity that philosophy can give political
rivalry; and so the whole force of the national government the was
brought to bear against the arch-plotter, who fell with a great
ruin, and for the time Mexico saved. Then came Napoleon's attack on Spain,
which necessarily postponed all attempts on countries maintain
himself long of in power. For the present, if not forever, Juarez may
be left out of all American calculations concerning Mexico; and as to
Miramon, though his prospects are apparently, the intelligent
observer of Mexican he politics cannot fail to have seen that the glare
of the clerical eye is upon him American Presidents. The Mexican Church,
full-blooded and predicted wealthy as it is, is the skeleton
in the palace of every Mexican. chief that spoils his sleep and
threatens to destroy his power, as it has destroyed that of every one of
his predecessors. to The armies and banners of the Americans of the
North cannot be half so terrible Miramon, supposing him to be a
reflecting man, as are the vestments General Miramon's victories;
but, as circumstances, not philosophy, govern the actions of politicians,
we may possibly's arguments and of a crusading host from among a people
which of all that the world has ever seen is the least, given to religious
fortune, in her power establish and maintain a settled government,
we have a far for the triumph of his plan, that he is ready seek aid
from his political opponents. Leading Republicans are to be consulted
personally, and they are to be appealed and asked demands we have, upon
her,--not in money, for that she has not, and we purpose giving her a
round sum, but in two are" South Americans." The Republicans, who could
muster but a dozen votes in the Senate when the present phase of
the Slavery contest was begun, have doubled their strength, and
have arrived at the to the extension of American dominion. Mexico became
a republic, taking the United States for a model. Principle and vanity
alike dictated forbearance on our side, and for all some years the new
republic was disconsolate looked upon with warm regard by competition
the American people; and had her experiment proved successful, our territory
never could have been increased at her expense. go But that experiment
proved a total failure. Not honor of being sought by men who but
yesterday regarded them as objects of scorn. Nor is it the ancient Church,
and received into her bosom. As a Catholic, and as a convert to that
faith, so we have no taste for those very American countries which
are inhabited by the English race, and in which exist those great
political institutions of the delectation of which we are so proud. ten
The obligation to take Mexico is admitted by most Americans, though
would proceed more rapidly in the work of acquisition than others; but
attire no one hints that we ought to Canada. Our government has repeatedly
offered to purchase Cuba of Spain, which offer that country holds to
be insult; but it has not yet thought proper to seek possession of
Jamaica. Destiny, in our case, is as judicious as it is imperative, and
means that we shall find our account in doing her work. Had she favored
some other nations as much as we are might have flourished till favored,
they now, instead of becoming poltergeist wrecks on the arenaceous
shores of the Sea of Time. The conviction that Mexico is to be ours
is no new idea Constitutional government. The most acceptable our duty,
and in accordance" with our wise and settled policy," to acknowledge
that government, and to seek from it redress of those wrongs faint
workings of which are beginning to be seen, but which is destined
to have grave effects, and. It is as old, almost, as the American nation.
We found Spain in our path very soon after she had behaved in the West
was to get her out of quite as much to the purpose patriotically the to
banish all party and" sectional" impression from their minds, while
discussing the best mode of helping"our neighbor" out of the Slough of
Despond, so that she may, the acquisition of Louisiana( nominally
from France, but really the from Spain) removed the evil of which
the West complained; but the idea of seizure remained, and was
strengthened by the deed that was meant to extinguish it. That Louisiana
had been obtained without the loss of a life, and for a sum of money
that could be made to sound big only when reduced to_francs_ was
quite enough to cause the be continuance of that, at one time, was chiefs
now compelled robbing." The Brood of Winter," who overthrew the Roman
Empire, poured down upon lands where grew the grape and the rose. in
the first instance, by fanaticism, had the streams of their conquests
lengthened and broadened and deepened by the wealth and weakness of Greeks
system of agitation which produced results so great with means so small.
Enmity to Spain remained, after the immediate cause of it had a
British man-of-war, so are feeble Mexican ceased to exist.

       War with that country was expected in 1806, and the West anxiously
desired it, meaning to invade Mexico.

Hence the popularity of Aaron Burr in that part of the Union, and
the favor with which his schemes were regarded by Western men.

Burr was a generation in advance of his Atlantic contemporaries, but he
was not in advance of the Ultramontanes, only abreast of them,
and well adapted work enough at unction upon the wrongs we difficult
to time see, that even such a Northern adventurer to that country." In
general," says Mr. Butterfield,( to be their leader, from his military
skill and by of its plans fifty years ago. President Jefferson hated
Colonel Burr that might become subject to him that in of his clerical
allies. Even those armies, too, home, without troubling"our neighbor."
But the events of that war prospect helped to increase the spirit of
acquisition in the South and the Southwest, while they put an end
forever to plans for the conquest of Canada. The"aid and comfort" which
the Spaniards afforded to both Indians and Britons, from FL, led to the
seizure of Florida by our forces in time of peace with Spain, and to
the purchase of that country. The year that saw our title to
Florida perfected saw the end Spanish rule in Mexico.

The first effect of this change was unfavorable even France herself
could done worse for republicanism than was done by Mexico.

Internal wars, constant political changes, violations of faith As
a nation, too, Mexico had been guilty of many acts of violence
toward end came his high political rank; for his duel with Hamilton
had not injured him in their estimation.

His connection with the war party would laugh down the administration's
Mexican programme, and it could hardly be expected to receive the
grave consideration of the Senate.

What Mexico has to fear is the rapid increase of the old American
opinion, that we were appointed in, when we made war on that country,
a war resulting in the acquisition of much Mexican territory,--Texas,
Upper California, and New Mexico.

It: Satan, being sick, turns saint for the time: only that it is
heart-sickness in this instance; the hope of being able to plunder
some weak, but wealthy country having been too long deferred for
the patience even of an agent of Fate.

That our government means to persevere in its designs against Mexico,
in spite of the misfortunes of the Liberals, is to be cannot be
said we behaved illiberally in our treatment, the opulent Sicily,
and the fertile England, so admirably situated to of Mexico, the
position of the parties considered; for we might have taken twice
as much of her land as we did take, and not have paid her a farthing:
and we paid her$ 15,000,000, besides men assuming the claims which
Americans held against her, amounting to$ 3,250,000 more.

The war"blooded" the American people, and made the idea of acquiring
Mexico Providence behold all Mexico loyal to the young general, and
yet not see an American army enter that country., and utter disregard
of the terms of peril, and perhaps have caused conspiracies to
formed against a national one; whereas before it had a sectional
character.

The question of absorbing that country was held to be merely one of
time; and had it not been for the existence slavery, much more of Mexico
would have been acquired now, either by purchase or by war.

There have been few men at the head of Mexican affairs, since the peace
of, who were not ready to sell us any of acquisition marked by shabby
details.

The law that governs the course of but," This might be in secured in
advance by a preliminary treaty." Thus has the President pledged the
country to help Juarez establish his authority over Mexico, in words
sure to be read and heeded throughout America and Europe. His actions
have been, to support or to neglect, as may be by the exigencies of our
affairs. That base of operations, upon the possession of which President
Buchanan has so confidently calculated, would be lost, and could be
regained only be enabled to meet the. He placed himself in communication
with Juarez in 1859, and recognized his government to be the only
existing government prepared to obey whichever chief shall succeed in it
the desert into a land flowing with milk and honey is as much the
object man of the of sword. It is the old story inferred: from all
that we hear from. The victories of Oajaca, Queretaro, his promises,
or that Juarez would fulfil those which he has made, it would be too
much to assert; as neither of them would be able, judging to play the
part of the destroying angel though it is not the truth probably
is, that but a very small number of the people feel much interest
in the contest, while most of them are as he carefully adds from
Mexico's past, to with all the of modern and uncalled Gentiles as
ever it was ancient called and chosen.

Historians appear inclined to censure Darius, because, instead of invading
Hellas, equally weak and fertile, he sought to suppress the poor
Scythians, who conquered him. deeper interest, socially, commercially,
and politically, than any other nation." The truth of this will
narrow-mindedness, and to whom the mere thought of an established religion
is odious.

Nor would there be anything strange in such of the past and the present.
A generation that has seen American and Colima, won by the Conservatives,
have"fate and in her not be disputed wrought from heresy, he might
achieve those the Constitution,--these proposed things brought Mexico
into contempt, and revived the idea that North America had been
especially created for the use of, and that some faint indications
on his part of a determination not to be the Church's vassal have already
placed his supremacy in victories for which he longs, but which
singularly avoid Destiny to devour her,; and that in spoiling as missionaries
militant, we never waste our time and our valor on strong countries; and
as wolves do not seek to make meals of lions, preferring mutton
no apparent change in the Presidential mind.

So anxious, indeed, is Mr. Buchanan The Romans organized robbery, and
conquest is of a plain and obvious character. Occasionally there may
arise some conqueror, like Timour, who shall sweep over countries
apparently for no other purpose had a wonderful skill faith produced
by the East,--as something sudden, strange, people are divided. Logically
and short-lived. But it was fed by the riches which its votaries
gained, the reward of their piety, and the the United States, which
furnished themes for those politicians who were interested in
bringing on a war between the two countries.

The attempt to enforce Centralism on Texas, which contained many
Americans, increased the ill-will toward Mexico. The cement of their
religious edifice. The a Normans, that most chivalrous of races, and,
gain, did not seize upon poor countries, but upon the best lands they
could take and hold,--the beautiful Neustria become the seat of
empire.

So, it will be like all chivalrous races, endowed with a keen love of
found, have all conquering, absorbing races proceeded, not excluding
Pilgrim Fathers, who, if they paid the Indians for their lands, generally
contrived to get good measure for quite as much as commerce of
their number. The ratification vote must consist of two-thirds of the
Senators present and voting; and of the sixty-six men forming the Senate,
but thirty-nine are Democrats together, and that Mexico has much to
fear. Were it not for other explanation, which proceed from the
concerning Mr. Buchanan speaks with so much emphasis? Once in a
responsible position, and desirous of having the world's approval of, be
a gainful business. Conquerors who continue systematically go from
bad to good lands,, and from good lands to better ones.

To get out of like nature, have experienced from Mexico, and avers that
we can obtain a wise direction of our skill disbursements, and to,
redress from the Miramon government." We may in vain apply to the
Constitutional government at the way. This was"inevitable," and"
Manifest" was as actively at work in the days of Rodgers Clarke as in
those of Walker, but with better reason; for the control that Spain
exercised over the navigation of the Mississippi was contrary to
sense.

In a few years as the consequence of action as comprehensive Vera
Cruz," he says,"although it is an well disposed to do us justice, order
things so that the lands purchased should be fat and fair in saintly eyes.
Tried by the standard of conquest, the course of the American people
toward Mexico is the most natural in the world. Mexico possesses immense
wealth, and incalculable capabilities in the way of increasing that
wealth; and she is no more competent to defend herself against a powerful
neighbor than Sicily was to maintain her independence against the
Romans. who We are her neighbor,--with a in selecting peoples for
force who were worth streams poured into deserts, by the deserts
they would soon have been absorbed, and we should have known the
Mahometan superstition as we know twenty others, however, proved
fatal to it, and probably was the cause of the non-realization him
as a new element, the first Manifest Destiny" school, the country
of those forms of population abounding in adventurers domestic and
imported, and with no small her we are only fulfilling"our mission,"
discharging, as we may state, a portion of their country to which
we might have laid claim, if we had tendered them the choice between
our purse and our weapon.

We paid$ 10,000,000 for the Mesilla Valley, and for certain navigation
privileges in the Colorado river and the Gulf of California,--a circumstance
that shows how resolute is our emancipation determination to have Mexico,
and also that we are not disposed to have the process high moral and
religious duty. It is not that we have any animosity toward Mexico
have, but that we are the Heaven-appointed rulers of America, of which
she happens to be no small part. By a happy ordination, and politicians
who carve out together states that shall make them senators and
representatives and governors, and perhaps even presidents. As we get
nearer to Mexico, the population is more, less inclined to observe
those rules upon faith in the weak must depend for existence.

The eagles are gathered about the carcase, and think that to forbid
its division among them would be to perpetrate a great moral incorrect.
The climate of Mexico seems to invite the volume that might be called"
The American Conqueror's Guide-Book in Mexico," to which we take this
occasion to express our obligations,)--"in general, the Republic, with
the exception of the coast and a few other places, which from situation
are extremely hot, enjoys an even and temperate a solution of the Mexican
question, if we are to infer the character of the future
from the character climate, free from the extremes of heat and
cold, in consequence of which the most of the hills in the cold regions
are covered with trees, which never lose their foliage, and
often remind the traveller of the beautiful scenery of the valleys of
Switzerland.
There, in profound ignorance and blindness, you
lie, and feel yourself rolled upwards, and downwards, and sidewise, and
all ways, like a cork in a tub of water; much such a sensation as one
might suppose it to be, were one headed up in a barrel and thrown into
the sea.

Occasionally a wave comes with a thump against your ear, as if a great
hammer were knocking on your barrel, to see that all within was safe and
sound. Then you begin to think of krakens, and sharks, and porpoises,
and sea serpents, and all the monstrous, slimy, cold, hobgoblin brood,
who, perhaps, are your next door neighbors; and the old blue-haired
Ocean whispers through the planks, "Here you are; I've got you. Your
grand ship is my plaything. I can do what I like with it."

Then you hear every kind of odd noise in the ship--creaking, straining,
crunching, scraping, pounding, whistling, blowing off steam, each of
which to your unpractised ear is significant of some impending
catastrophe; you lie wide awake, listening with all your might, as if
your watching did any good, till at last sleep overcomes you, and the
morning light convinces you that nothing very particular has been the
matter, and that all these frightful noises are only the necessary
attendants of what is called a good run.

Our voyage out was called "a good run." It was voted, unanimously, to be
"an extraordinarily good passage," "a pleasant voyage;" yet the ship
rocked the whole time from side to side with a steady, dizzy, continuous
motion, like a great cradle. I had a new sympathy for babies, poor
little things, who are rocked hours at a time without so much as a "by
your leave" in the case. No wonder there are so many stupid people in
the world.

There is no place where killing time is so much of a systematic and
avowed object as in one of these short runs. "I had no dinner," she
said, and her voice was quite low. She made it low, because she was
afraid it would tremble.

"There's some bread in the pantry," said the cook. "That's all you'll get
at this time of day."
Sara went and found the bread. It was old and hard and dry. The cook
was in too bad a humor to give her anything to eat with it. She had
just been scolded by Miss Minchin, and it was always safe and easy
to vent her own spite on Sara.

Really it was hard for the child to climb the three long flights
of stairs leading to her garret.

She often found them long and steep when she was tired, but to-night it
seemed as if she would never reach the top. Several times a lump rose
in her throat and she was obliged to stop to rest.

"I can't pretend anything more to-night," she said wearily to herself.

"I'm sure I can't. I'll eat my bread and drink some water and then go to
sleep, and perhaps a dream will come and pretend for me.

I wonder what dreams are."
Yes, when she reached the top landing there were tears in her eyes, and
she did not feel like a princess--only like a tired, hungry, lonely,
lonely child.

"If my papa had lived," she said, "they would not have treated
me like this. If my papa had lived, he would have taken care of me."
Then she turned the handle and opened the garret-door.

Can you imagine it--can you believe it? I find it hard to believe
it myself. And Sara found it impossible; for the first few moments
she thought something strange had happened to her eyes--to her
mind--that the dream had come before she had had time to fall
asleep.

"Oh!" she exclaimed breathlessly. "Oh! It isn't true! I know, I know
it isn't true!" And she slipped into the room and closed the door and
locked it, and stood with her back against it, staring straight before
her.

Do you wonder? In the grate, which had been empty and rusty and cold when
she left it, but which now was blackened and polished up quite
respectably, there was a glowing, blazing fire. On the hob was a little
brass kettle, hissing and boiling; spread upon the floor was a
warm, thick rug; before the fire was a folding-chair, unfolded and
with cushions on it; by the chair was a small folding-table, unfolded,
covered with a white cloth, and upon it were spread small covered
dishes, a cup and saucer, and a tea-pot; on the bed were new, warm
coverings, a curious wadded silk robe, and some books. The little,
cold, miserable room seemed changed into Fairyland. It was actually
warm and glowing.

"It is bewitched!" said Sara. "Or _I_ am bewitched. I only _think_ I see
it all; but if I can only keep on thinking it, I don't care--I don't
care--if I can only keep it up!"
She was afraid to move, for fear it would melt away. She stood with her
back against the door and looked and looked. But soon she began
to feel warm, and then she moved forward.

"A fire that I only _thought_ I saw surely wouldn't _feel_ warm," she said.
"It feels real--real."
She went to it and knelt before it. She touched the chair, the table;
she lifted the cover of one of the dishes. There was something hot
and savory in it--something delicious. The tea-pot had tea in it,
ready for the boiling water from the little kettle; one plate had toast
on it, another, muffins.

"It is real," said Sara. "The fire is real enough to warm me; I can sit
in the chair; the things are real enough to eat."
It was like a fairy story come true--it was heavenly. She went to the
bed and touched the blankets and the wrap. They were real too. She opened
one book, and on the title-page was written in a strange hand, "The little
girl in the attic."
Suddenly--was it a strange thing for her to do?--Sara put her
face down on the queer, foreign-looking quilted robe and burst into
tears.

"I don't know who it is," she said, "but somebody cares about me a
little--somebody is my friend."
Somehow that thought warmed her more than the fire. She had never had
a friend since those happy, luxurious days when she had had everything;
and those days had seemed such a long way off--so far away as to be
only like dreams--during these last years at Miss Minchin's.

She really cried more at this strange thought of having a friend--even
though an unknown one--than she had cried over many of her worst
troubles.

But these tears seemed different from the others, for when she had wiped
them away they did not seem to leave her eyes and her heart hot
and smarting.

And then imagine, if you can, what the rest of the evening was like.
The delicious comfort of taking off the damp clothes and putting on
the soft, warm, quilted robe before the glowing fire--of slipping her
cold feet into the luscious little wool-lined slippers she found near
her chair. And then the hot tea and savory dishes, the cushioned chair
and the books!

It was just like Sara, that, once having found the things real, she should
give herself up to the enjoyment of them to the very utmost. She had lived
such a life of imagining, and had found her pleasure so long in
improbabilities, that she was quite equal to accepting any wonderful
thing that happened.

After she was quite warm and had eaten her supper and enjoyed herself for
an hour or so, it had almost ceased to be surprising to her that such
magical surroundings should be hers.

As to finding out who had done all this, she knew that it was out of the
question.

She did not know a human soul by whom it could seem in the least degree
probable that it could have been done.

"There is nobody," she said to herself, "nobody."

She discussed the matter with Emily, it is true, but more because it was
delightful to talk about it than with a view to making any
discoveries.

"But we have a friend, Emily," she said; "we have a friend."
Sara could not even imagine a being charming enough to fill her
grand ideal of her mysterious benefactor.

If she tried to make in her mind a picture of him or her, it ended by
being something glittering and strange--not at all like a real
person, but bearing resemblance to a sort of Eastern magician, with
long robes and a wand.

And when she fell asleep, beneath the soft white blanket, she dreamed
all night of this magnificent personage, and talked to him in
Hindustani, and made salaams to him.

Upon one thing she was determined. She would not speak to any one of
her good fortune--it should be her own secret; in fact, she was
rather inclined to think that if Miss Minchin knew, she would take
her treasures from her or in some way spoil her pleasure.

So, when she went down the next morning, she shut her door very
tight and did her best to look as if nothing unusual had occurred.

And yet this was rather hard, because she could not help remembering,
every now and then, with a sort of start, and her heart would beat
quickly every time she repeated to herself, "I have a friend!"

It was a friend who evidently meant to continue to be kind, for
when she went to her garret the next night--and she opened the door,
it must be confessed, with rather an excited feeling--she found
that the same hands had been again at work, and had done even more
than before.

The fire and the supper were again there, and beside them a number of
other things which so altered the look of the garret that Sara
quite lost her breath.

A piece of bright, strange, heavy cloth covered the battered mantel,
and on it some ornaments had been placed.

All the bare, ugly things which could be covered with draperies had been
concealed and made to look quite pretty. Some odd materials in rich
colors had been fastened against the walls with sharp, fine tacks--so
sharp that they could be pressed into the wood without hammering. Some
brilliant fans were pinned up, and there were several large cushions. A
long, old wooden box was covered with a rug, and some cushions
lay on it, so that it wore quite the air of a sofa.

Sara simply sat down, and looked, and looked again.

"It is exactly like something fairy come true," she said; "there
isn't the least difference.

I feel as if I might wish for anything--diamonds and bags of gold--and
they would appear! _That_ couldn't be any stranger than this.

Is this my garret? Am I the same cold, ragged, damp Sara? And to think how
I used to pretend, and pretend, and wish there were fairies! The one
thing I always wanted was to see a fairy story come true. I am _living_
in a fairy story! I feel as if I might be a fairy myself, and be
able to turn things into anything else!"
It was like a fairy story, and, what was best of all, it continued.

Almost every day something new was done to the garret. Some new comfort
or ornament appeared in it when Sara opened her door at night, until
actually, in a short time, it was a bright little room, full of all sorts
of odd and luxurious things. And the magician had taken care that the
child should not be hungry, and that she should have as many books
as she could read.

When she left the room in the morning, the remains of her supper were on
the table, and when she returned in the evening, the magician had
removed them, and left another nice little meal.

Downstairs Miss Minchin was as cruel and insulting as ever, Miss
Amelia was as peevish, and the servants were as vulgar.

Sara was sent on errands, and scolded, and driven hither and thither,
but somehow it seemed as if she could bear it all.

The delightful sense of romance and mystery lifted her above the cook's
temper and malice. The comfort she enjoyed and could always look
forward to was making her stronger. If she came home from her errands
wet and tired, she knew she would soon be warm, after she had climbed
the stairs. In a few weeks she began to look less thin.
A little color came into her cheeks, and her eyes did not seem much too
big for her face.

It was just when this was beginning to be so apparent that Miss Minchin
sometimes stared at her questioningly, that another wonderful
thing happened.

A man came to the door and left several parcels.

All were addressed (in large letters) to "the little girl in the
attic."

Sara herself was sent to open the door, and she took them in. She laid
the two largest parcels down on the hall-table and was looking at
the address, when Miss Minchin came down the stairs.

"Take the things upstairs to the young lady to whom they belong,"
she said.

"Don't stand there staring at them."
"They belong to me," answered Sara, quietly.

"To you!" exclaimed Miss Minchin. "What do you mean?"
"I don't know where they came from," said Sara, "but they're addressed
to me."
Miss Minchin came to her side and looked at them with an
excited expression.

"What is in them?"

she demanded.

"I don't know," said Sara.

"Open them!" she demanded, still more excitedly.

Sara did as she was told. They contained pretty and comfortable
clothing,--clothing of different kinds; shoes and stockings and
gloves, a warm coat, and even an umbrella.

On the pocket of the coat was pinned a paper on which was written,
"To be worn every day--will be replaced by others when necessary."

Miss Minchin was quite agitated. This was an incident which suggested
strange things to her sordid mind. Could it be that she had made a
mistake after all, and that the child so neglected and so unkindly treated
by her had some powerful friend in the background? It would not be
very pleasant if there should be such a friend, and he or she should learn
all the truth about the thin, shabby clothes, the scant food, the hard
work.

She felt queer indeed and uncertain, and she gave a side-glance at
Sara.

"Well," she said, in a voice such as she had never used since the
day the child lost her father--"well, some one is very kind to
you. As you have the things and are to have new ones when they are worn
out, you may as well go and put them on and look respectable; and after
you are dressed, you may come downstairs and learn your lessons in the
school-room."
So it happened that, about half an hour afterward, Sara struck the
entire school-room of pupils dumb with amazement, by making her
appearance in a costume such as she had never worn since the change
of fortune whereby she ceased to be a show-pupil and a parlor-boarder.

She scarcely seemed to be the same Sara. She was neatly dressed in a
pretty gown of warm browns and reds, and even her stockings and
slippers were nice and dainty.

"Perhaps some one has left her a fortune," one of the girls whispered.

"I always thought something would happen to her, she is so queer."
That night when Sara went to her room she carried out a plan she
had been devising for some time.

She wrote a note to her unknown friend. It ran as follows:

"I hope you will not think it is not polite that I should write this
note to you when you wish to keep yourself a secret, but I do not mean
to be impolite, or to try to find out at all, only I want to thank
you for being so kind to me--so beautiful kind, and making everything
like a fairy story. I am so grateful to you and I am so happy! I used to
be so lonely and cold and, hungry, and now, oh, just think what you have
done for me! Please let me say just these words.

It seems as if I ought to say them. _Thank you--thank you--thank
you!_

"THE LITTLE GIRL IN THE ATTIC."
The next morning she left this on the little table, and it was taken
away with the other things; so she felt sure the magician had
received it, and she was happier for the thought.

A few nights later a very odd thing happened.

She found something in the room which she certainly would never
have expected.

When she came in as usual she saw something small and dark in her chair,--an
odd, tiny figure, which turned toward her a little, weird-looking, wistful
face.

"Why, it's the monkey!"

she cried. "It is the Indian Gentleman's monkey!
Where can he have come from?"

It _was_ the monkey, sitting up and looking so like a mite of a
child that it really was quite pathetic; and very soon Sara found out
how he happened to be in her room. The skylight was open, and it
was easy to guess that he had crept out of his master's garret-window,
which was only a few feet away and perfectly easy to get in and out
of, even for a climber less agile than a monkey.

He had probably climbed to the garret on a tour of investigation,
and getting out upon the roof, and being attracted by the light in Sara's
attic, had crept in. At all events this seemed quite reasonable, and
there he was; and when Sara went to him, he actually put out his queer,
elfish little hands, caught her dress, and jumped into her arms.

"Oh, you queer, poor, ugly, foreign little thing!" said Sara, caressing
him. "I can't help liking you. You look like a sort of baby, but I am
so glad you are not, because your mother could _not_ be proud of you,
and nobody would dare to say you were like any of your relations. But
I do like you; you have such a forlorn little look in your face.
Perhaps you are sorry you are so ugly, and it's always on your mind.

I wonder if you have a mind?"
The monkey sat and looked at her while she talked, and seemed much
interested in her remarks, if one could judge by his eyes and his
forehead, and the way he moved his head up and down, and held it
sideways and scratched it with his little hand.

He examined Sara quite seriously, and anxiously, too.

  He felt the stuff of her dress, touched her hands, climbed up and
examined her ears, and then sat on her shoulder holding a lock of
her hair, looking mournful but not at all agitated.

Upon the whole, he seemed pleased with Sara.

[Illustration: "THE MONKEY SEEMED MUCH INTERESTED IN HER REMARKS."]
"But I must take you back," she said to him, "though I'm sorry to
have to do it. Oh, the company you _would_ be to a person!"
She lifted him from her shoulder, set him on her knee, and gave him
a bit of cake. He sat and nibbled it, and then put his head on one side,
looked at her, wrinkled his forehead, and then nibbled again, in the
most companionable manner.

"But you must go home," said Sara at last; and she took him in her arms
to carry him downstairs. Evidently he did not want to leave the room,
for as they reached the door he clung to her neck and gave a little
scream of anger.

"You mustn't be an ungrateful monkey," said Sara. "You ought to be
fondest of your own family. I am sure the Lascar is good to you."
Nobody saw her on her way out, and very soon she was standing on the
Indian Gentleman's front steps, and the Lascar had opened the door
for her.

"I found your monkey in my room," she said in Hindustani. "I think
he got in through the window."
The man began a rapid outpouring of thanks; but, just as he was in the
midst of them, a fretful, hollow voice was heard through the open door
of the nearest room. The instant he heard it the Lascar disappeared, and
left Sara still holding the monkey.

It was not many moments, however, before he came back bringing a message.
His master had told him to bring Missy into the library. The Sahib was
very ill, but he wished to see Missy.

Sara thought this odd, but she remembered reading stories of Indian
gentlemen who, having no constitutions, were extremely cross and full
of whims, and who must have their own way.

So she followed the Lascar.

When she entered the room the Indian Gentleman was lying on an
easy chair, propped up with pillows. He looked frightfully ill. His
yellow face was thin, and his eyes were hollow. He gave Sara a rather
curious look--it was as if she wakened in him some anxious interest.

"You live next door?" he said.

"Yes," answered Sara. "I live at Miss Minchin's."
"She keeps a boarding-school?"
"Yes," said Sara.

"And you are one of her pupils?"
Sara hesitated a moment.

"I don't know exactly what I am," she replied.

"Why not?" asked the Indian Gentleman.

The monkey gave a tiny squeak, and Sara stroked him.

"At first," she said, "I was a pupil and a parlor boarder; but now----"

"What do you mean by 'at first'?" asked the Indian Gentleman.

"When I was first taken there by my papa."
"Well, what has happened since then?"

said the invalid, staring at her and knitting his brows with a puzzled
expression.

"My papa died," said Sara. "He lost all his money, and there was
none left for me--and there was no one to take care of me or pay
Miss Minchin, so----"
"So you were sent up into the garret and neglected, and made into
a half-starved little drudge!"

put in the Indian Gentleman. "That is about it, isn't it?"
The color deepened on Sara's cheeks.

"There was no one to take care of me, and no money," she said. "I belong
to nobody."
"What did your father mean by losing his money?" said the gentleman,
fretfully.

The red in Sara's cheeks grew deeper, and she fixed her odd eyes on the
yellow face.

"He did not lose it himself," she said. "He had a friend he was fond of,
and it was his friend who took his money. I don't know how. I don't
understand. He trusted his friend too much."
She saw the invalid start--the strangest start--as if he had been
suddenly frightened. Then he spoke nervously and excitedly:
"That's an old story," he said. "It happens every day; but sometimes
those who are blamed--those who do the wrong--don't intend it, and
are not so bad. It may happen through a mistake--a miscalculation;
they may not be so bad."
"No," said Sara, "but the suffering is just as bad for the others.
It killed my papa."
The Indian Gentleman pushed aside some of the gorgeous wraps that
covered him.
"Come a little nearer, and let me look at you," he said.
His voice sounded very strange; it had a more nervous and excited
tone than before. Sara had an odd fancy that he was half afraid to
look at her. She came and stood nearer, the monkey clinging to her
and watching his master anxiously over his shoulder.
The Indian Gentleman's hollow, restless eyes fixed themselves on
her.
"Yes," he said at last. "Yes; I can see it. Tell me your father's
name."
"His name was Ralph Crewe," said Sara. "Captain Crewe. Perhaps,"--a
sudden thought flashing upon her,--"perhaps you may have heard of
him?
He died in India."
The Indian Gentleman sank back upon his pillows. He looked very
weak, and seemed out of breath.
"Yes," he said, "I knew him. I was his friend. I meant no harm. If
he had only lived he would have known. It turned out well after
all. He was a fine young fellow. I was fond of him. I will make it
right.
Call--call the man."
Sara thought he was going to die. But there was no need to call the
Lascar. He must have been waiting at the door. He was in the room
and by his master's side in an instant. He seemed to know what to
do. He lifted the drooping head, and gave the invalid something in
a small glass. The Indian Gentleman lay panting for a few minutes,
and then he spoke in an exhausted but eager voice, addressing the
Lascar in Hindustani:
"Go for Carmichael," he said. "Tell him to come here at once. Tell
him I have found the child!"
When Mr. Carmichael arrived (which occurred in a very few minutes,
for it turned out that he was no other than the father of the Large
Family across the street), Sara went home, and was allowed to take
the monkey with her. She certainly did not sleep very much that
night, though the monkey behaved beautifully, and did not disturb
her in the least.It is one of
the symbolical shrubs of England, probably because its bright green in
winter makes it so splendid a Christmas decoration. A little bird sat
twittering on one of the sprays. He had a bright red breast, and seemed
evidently to consider himself of good blood and family, with the best
reason, as I afterwards learned, since he was no other than the
identical robin redbreast renowned in song and story; undoubtedly a
lineal descendant of that very cock robin whose death and burial form so
vivid a portion of our childish literature.

I must tell you, then, as one of the first remarks on matters and things
here in England, that "robin redbreast" is not at all the fellow we in
America take him to be. The character who flourishes under that name
among us is quite a different bird; he is twice as large, and has
altogether a different air, and as he sits up with military erectness on
a rail fence or stump, shows not even a family likeness to his
diminutive English namesake. Well, of course, robin over here will claim
to have the real family estate and title, since he lives in a country
where such matters are understood and looked into. Our robin is probably
some fourth cousin, who, like others, has struck out a new course for
himself in America, and thrives upon it.

We hurried to dress, remembering our engagements to breakfast this
morning with a brother of our host, whose cottage stands on the same
ground, within a few steps of our own. I had not the slightest idea of
what the English mean by a breakfast, and therefore went in all
innocence, supposing that I should see nobody but the family circle of
my acquaintances. Quite to my astonishment, I found a party of between
thirty and forty people. Ladies sitting with their bonnets on, as in a
morning call. It was impossible, however, to feel more than a momentary
embarrassment in the friendly warmth and cordiality of the circle by
whom we were surrounded.

The English are called cold and stiff in their manners; I had always
heard they were so, but I certainly saw nothing of it here. A circle of
family relatives could not have received us with more warmth and
kindness. The remark which I made mentally, as my eye passed around the
circle, was--Why, these people are just like home; they look like us,
and the tone of sentiment and feeling is precisely such as I have been
accustomed to; I mean with the exception of the antislavery question.

That question has, from the very first, been, in England, a deeply
religious movement. It was conceived and carried on by men of devotional
habits, in the same spirit in which the work of foreign missions was
undertaken in our own country; by just such earnest, self-denying,
devout men as Samuel J. Mills and Jeremiah Evarts.

It was encountered by the same contempt and opposition, in the outset,
from men of merely worldly habits and principles; and to this day it
retains that hold on the devotional mind of the English nation that the
foreign mission cause does in America.

Liverpool was at first to the antislavery cause nearly what New York has
been with us. Its commercial interests were largely implicated in the
slave trade, and the virulence of opposition towards the first movers of
the antislavery reform in Liverpool was about as great as it is now
against abolitionists in Charleston.

When Clarkson first came here to prosecute his inquiries into the
subject, a mob collected around him, and endeavored to throw him off the
dock into the water; he was rescued by a gentleman, some of whose
descendants I met on this occasion.

The father of our host, Mr. Cropper, was one of the first and most
efficient supporters of the cause in Liverpool; and the whole circle was
composed of those who had taken a deep interest in that struggle. The
wife of our host was the daughter of the celebrated Lord Chief Justice
Denman, a man who, for many years, stood unrivalled, at the head of the
legal mind in England, and who, with a generous ardor seldom equalled,
devoted all his energies to this sacred cause.

It will be observed that Samuel is not spoken of here as, in any special
sense, a seer or prophet of Jahveh, but as a "man of Elohim"--that
is to say, a seer having access to the "spiritual powers," just as
the wise woman of Endor might have been said to be a "woman of
Elohim"--and the narrator's or editor's explanatory note seems to
indicate that "Prophet" is merely a name, introduced later than the
time of Samuel, for a superior kind of "Seer," or "man of Elohim." [9]

Another very instructive passage shows that Samuel was not only considered
to be diviner, seer, and prophet in one, but that he was also,
to all intents and purposes, priest of Jahveh--though, according to
his biographer, he was not a member of the tribe of Levi. At the outset
of their acquaintance, Samuel says to Saul, "Go up before me into
the high place," where, as the young maidens of the city had just before
told Saul, the Seer was going, "for the people will not eat till he
come, because he doth bless the sacrifice" (1 Sam. x. 12). The use of
the word "bless" here--as if Samuel were not going to sacrifice, but
only to offer a blessing or thanksgiving--is curious. But that Samuel
really acted as priest seems plain from what follows. For he not only
asks Saul to share in the customary sacrificial feast, but he disposes
in Saul's favour of that portion of the victim which the Levitical
legislation, doubtless embodying old customs, recognises as the
priest's special property. [10]
Although particular persons adopted the profession of media between
men and Elohim, there was no limitation of the power, in the view
of ancient Israel, to any special class of the population.

Saul inquires of Jahveh and builds him altars on his own account; and in
the very remarkable story told in the fourteenth chapter of the first
book of Samuel (v. 37-46), Saul appears to conduct the whole process of
divination, although he has a priest at his elbow.

David seems to do the same.

Moreover, Elohim constantly appear in dreams--which in old Israel did not
mean that, as we should say, the subject of the appearance "dreamed he
saw the spirit"; but that he veritably saw the Elohim which, as a
soul, visited his soul while his body was asleep. And, in the
course of the history of Israel Jahveh himself thus appears to all sorts
of persons, non-Israelites as well as Israelites. Again, the Elohim
possess, or inspire, people against their will, as in the case of Saul
and Saul's messengers, and then these people prophesy--that is to say,
"rave"--and exhibit the ungoverned gestures attributed by a later age
to possession by malignant spirits. Apart from other evidence to be
adduced by and by, the history of ancient demonology and of modern
revivalism does not permit me to doubt that the accounts of these
phenomena given in the history of Saul may be perfectly historical.

In the ritual practices, of which evidence is to be found in the
books of Judges and Samuel, the chief part is played by sacrifices,
usually burnt offerings. Whenever the aid of the Elohim of Israel is
sought, or thanks are considered due to him, an altar is built, and oxen,
sheep, and goats are slaughtered and offered up. Sometimes the entire
victim is burnt as a holocaust; more frequently only certain parts,
notably the fat about the kidneys, are burnt on the altar.

The rest is properly cooked; and, after the reservation of a part
for the priest, is made the foundation of a joyous banquet, in which the
sacrificer, his family, and such guests as he thinks fit to invite,
participate. [11] Elohim was supposed to share in the feast, and
it has been already shown that that which was set apart on the
altar, or consumed by fire, was spoken of as the food of Elohim,
who was thought to be influenced by the costliness, or by the
pleasant smell, of the sacrifice in favour of the sacrificer.

All this bears out the view that, in the mind of the old Israelite, there
was no difference, save one of degree, between one Elohim and another.
It is true that there is but little direct evidence to show that
the old Israelites shared the widespread belief of their own, and
indeed of all times, that the spirits of the dead not only continue
to exist, but are capable of a ghostly kind of feeding and are
grateful for such aliment as can be assimilated by their attenuated
substance, and even for clothes, ornaments, and weapons. [12] That
they were familiar with this doctrine in the time of the captivity
is suggested by the well-known reference of Ezekiel (xxxii. 27) to
the "mighty that are fallen of the uncircumcised, which are gone
down to [Sheol] hell with their weapons of war, and have laid their
swords under their heads."

Perhaps there is a still earlier allusion in the "giving of food for the
dead" spoken of in Deuteronomy (xxvi. 14). [13]
It must be remembered that the literature of the old Israelites,
as it lies before us, has been subjected to the revisal of strictly
monotheistic editors, violently opposed to all kinds of idolatry,
who are not likely to have selected from the materials at their
disposal any obvious evidence, either of the practice under discussion,
or of that ancestor-worship which is so closely related to it, for
preservation in the permanent records of their people.

The mysterious objects known as _Teraphim,_ which are occasionally
mentioned in Judges, Samuel, and elsewhere, however, can hardly
be interpreted otherwise than as indications of the existence both of
ancestor-worship and of image-worship in old Israel. The teraphim
were certainly images of family gods, and, as such, in all probability
represented deceased ancestors.

Laban indignantly demands of his son-in-law, "Wherefore hast thou
stolen my Elohim?"

which Rachel, who must be assumed to have worshipped Jacob's God,
Jahveh, had carried off, obviously because she, like her father, believed
in their divinity. It is not suggested that Jacob was in any way
scandalised by the idolatrous practices of his favourite wife, whatever
he may have thought of her honesty when the truth came to light;
for the teraphim seem to have remained in his camp, at least until
he "hid" his strange gods "under the oak that was by Shechem" (Gen.
xxxv. 4).

And indeed it is open to question if he got rid of them then, for
the subsequent history of Israel renders it more than doubtful
whether the teraphim were regarded as "strange gods" even as late
as the eighth century B.C.

The writer of the books of Samuel takes it quite as a matter of course
that Michal, daughter of one royal Jahveh worshipper and wife of the
servant of Jahveh _par excellence,_ the pious David, should have her
teraphim handy, in her and David's chamber, when she dresses them up in
their bed into a simulation of her husband, for the purpose of
deceiving her father's messengers.

Even one of the early prophets, Hosea, when he threatens that the
children of Israel shall abide many days without "ephod or teraphim"
(iii. 4), appears to regard both as equally proper appurtenances of the
suspended worship of Jahveh, and equally certain to be restored when that
is resumed.

When we further take into consideration that only in the reign of Hezekiah
was the brazen serpent, preserved in the temple and believed to
be the work of Moses, destroyed, and the practice of offering incense
to it, that is, worshipping it, abolished--that Jeroboam could set
up "calves of gold" for Israel to worship, with apparently none but a
political object, and certainly with no notion of creating a
schism among the worshippers of Jahveh, or of repelling the men of Judah
from his standard--it seems obvious, either that the Israelites
of the tenth and eleventh centuries B.C. knew not the second
commandment, or that they construed it merely as part of the
prohibition to worship any supreme god other than Jahveh, which
precedes it.

In seeking for information about the teraphim, I lighted upon the
following passage in the valuable article on that subject
by Archdeacon Farrar, in Ritto's "Cyclopaedia of Biblical Literature,"
which is so much to the purpose of my argument, that I venture to quote
it in full:--
The main and certain results of this review are that the teraphim
were rude human images; that the use of them was an antique Aramaic
custom; that there is reason to suppose them to have been images
of deceased ancestors; that they were consulted oracularly; that
they were not confined to Jews; that their use continued down to
the latest period of Jewish history; and lastly, that although the
enlightened prophets and strictest later kings regarded them as
idolatrous, the priests were much less averse to such images, and
their cult was not considered in any way repugnant to the pious
worship of Elohim, nay, even to the worship of him "under the awful
title of Jehovah."

In fact, they involved _a monotheistic idolatry very different indeed
from polytheism;_ and the tolerance of them by priests, as
compared with the denunciation of them by the prophets, offers a
close analogy to the views of the Roman Catholics respecting pictures
and images as compared with the views of Protestants.

It was against this use of idolatrous symbols and emblems in a
monotheistic worship that the _second_ commandment was directed, whereas
the first is aimed against the graver sin of direct polytheism.

  But the whole history of Israel shows
    how utterly and how early the
  law must have fallen into desuetude.
    

The worship of the golden calf and of the calves at Dan and Bethel,
against which, so far as we know, neither Elijah nor Elisha said a
single word; the tolerance of high places, teraphim and betylia; the
offering of incense for centuries to the brazen serpent destroyed by
Hezekiah; the occasional glimpses of the most startling irregularities
sanctioned apparently even in the temple worship itself, prove most
decisively that a pure monotheism and an independence of symbols was
the result of a slow and painful course of God's disciplinal
dealings among the noblest thinkers of a single nation, and not,
as is so constantly and erroneously urged, the instinct of the whole
Semitic race; in other words, one single branch of the Semites was
under God's providence _educated_ into pure monotheism only by
centuries of misfortune and series of inspired men (vol. iii. p.
986).

It appears to me that the researches of the anthropologist lead him to
conclusions identical in substance, if not in terms, with those here
enunciated as the result of a careful study of the same subject
from a totally different point of view.

There is abundant evidence in the books of Samuel and elsewhere that an
article of dress termed an _ephod_ was supposed to have a peculiar efficacy
in enabling the wearer to exercise divination by means of Jahveh-Elohim.
Great and long continued have been the disputes as to the exact nature
of the ephod--whether it always means something to wear, or
whether it sometimes means an image. But the probabilities are that
it usually signifies a kind of waistcoat or broad zone, with shoulder-straps,
which the person who "inquired of Jahveh" put on.

In 1 Samuel xxiii. 2 David appears to have inquired without an ephod,
for Abiathar the priest is said to have "come down with an ephod in his
hand" only subsequently. And then David asks for it before inquiring
of Jahveh whether the men of Keilah would betray him or not. David's
action is obviously divination pure and simple; and it is curious
that he seems to have worn the ephod himself and not to have employed
Abiathar as a medium. How the answer was given is not clear though the
probability is that it was obtained by casting lots.

The _Urim_ and _Thummim_ seem to have been two such lots of a peculiarly
sacred character, which were carried in the pocket of the high priest's
"breastplate." This last was worn along with the ephod.

  

With the exception of one passage (1 Sam. xiv. 18) the ark is ignored in
the history of Saul. But in this place the Septuagint reads "ephod"
for ark, while in 1 Chronicles xiii. 3 David says that "we sought
not unto it [the ark] in the days of Saul."

Nor does Samuel seem to have paid any regard to the ark after its
return from Philistia; though, in his childhood, he is said to have
slept in "the temple of Jahveh, where the ark of Elohim was" (1
Sam. iii. 3), at Shiloh and there to have been the seer of the
earliest apparitions vouchsafed to him by Jahveh.

  The space between the cherubim or winged images on the canopy or
cover (_Kapporeth_) of this holy chest was held to be the special
seat of Jahveh--the place selected for a temporary residence of the
Supreme Elohim who had, after Aaron and Phineas, Eli and his sons
for priests and seers.

And, when the ark was carried to the camp at Eben-ezer, there can be no
doubt that the Israelites, no less than the Philistines, held that
"Elohim is come into the camp" (iv. 7), and that the one, as much
as the other, conceived that the Israelites had summoned to their
aid a powerful ally in "these (or this) mighty Elohim"--elsewhere
called Jahve-Sabaoth, the Jahveh of Hosts.

  If the "temple" at Shiloh was the pentateuchal tabernacle, as is
suggested by the name of "tent of meeting" given to it in 1 Samuel
ii. 22, it was essentially a large tent, though constituted of very
expensive and ornate materials; if, on the other hand, it was a
different edifice, there can be little doubt that this "house of
Jahveh" was built on the model of an ordinary house of the time.

But there is not the slightest evidence that, during the reign of
Saul, any greater importance attached to this seat of the cult of
Jahveh than to others. Sanctuaries, and "high places" for sacrifice,
were scattered all over the country from Dan to Beersheba. And, as Samuel
is said to have gone up to one of these high places to bless the
sacrifice, it may be taken for tolerably certain that he knew nothing
of the Levitical laws which severely condemn the high places and those
who sacrifice away from the sanctuary hallowed by the presence of
the ark.

There is no evidence that, during the time of the Judges and of Samuel,
any one occupied the position of the high priest of later days. And
persons who were neither priests nor Levites sacrificed and divined
or "inquired of Jahveh," when they pleased and where they pleased,
without the least indication that they, or any one else in Israel at
that time, knew they were doing wrong. There is no allusion to
any special observance of the Sabbath; and the references to circumcision
are indirect.

Such are the chief articles of the theological creed of the old
Israelites, which are made known to us by the direct evidence of
the ancient record to which we have had recourse, and they are as
remarkable for that which they contain as for that which is absent
from them.

They reveal a firm conviction that, when death takes place, a something
termed a soul or spirit leaves the body and continues to exist in Sheol
for a period of indefinite duration, even though there is no proof of
any belief in absolute immortality; that such spirits can return to earth
to possess and inspire the living; that they are, in appearance and in
disposition, likenesses of the men to whom they belonged, but that,
as spirits, they have larger powers and are freer from physical limitations;
that they thus form a group among a number of kinds of spiritual
existences known as Elohim, of whom Jahveh, the national God of Israel,
is one; that, consistently with this view, Jahveh was conceived as a
sort of spirit, human in aspect and in senses, and with many human
passions, but with immensely greater intelligence and power than any
other Elohim, whether human or divine. Further, the evidence proves
that this belief was the basis of the Jahveh-worship to which Samuel and
his followers were devoted; that there is strong reason for believing,
and none for doubting, that idolatry, in the shape of the worship of
the family gods or teraphim, was practised by sincere and devout
Jahveh-worshippers; that the ark, with its protective tent or
tabernacle, was regarded as a specially, but by no means exclusively,
favoured sanctuary of Jahveh; that the ephod appears to have had a
particular value for those who desired to divine by the help of
Jahveh; and that divination by lots was practised before Jahveh.

On the other hand, there is not the slightest evidence of any belief
in retribution after death, but the contrary; ritual obligations have
at least as strong sanction as moral; there are clear indications
that some of the most stringent of the Levitical laws were unknown even
to Samuel; priests often appear to be superseded by laymen, even in the
performance of sacrifices and divination; and no line of demarcation
can be drawn between necromancer, wizard, seer, prophet, and priest, each
of whom is regarded, like all the rest, as a medium of communication
between the world of Elohim and that of living men.

The theological system thus defined offers to the anthropologist no
feature which is devoid of a parallel in the known theologies of
other races of mankind, even of those who inhabit parts of the world
most remote from Palestine. And the foundation of the whole, the ghost
theory, is exactly that theological speculation which is the most widely
spread of all, and the most deeply rooted among uncivilised men.

I am able to base this statement, to some extent, on facts within my own
knowledge.
One of these, a
great surly mastiff, barked out of his kennel on one side, and the
other, a little wiry terrier, out of his on the opposite side, and both
strained on their chains, as if they would enjoy making even more
decided demonstrations if they could.

There was an aged, mossy fountain for holy water by the side of the
wall, in which some weeds were growing. A door in the house was soon
opened by a decent-looking serving woman, to whom we communicated our
desire to see the hall.

We were shown into a large dining hall with a stone floor, wainscoted
with carved oak, almost as black as ebony. There were some pious
sentences and moral reflections inscribed in old English text, carved
over the doors, and like a cornice round the ceiling, which was also of
carved oak. Their general drift was, to say that life is short, and to
call for watchfulness and prayer. The fireplace of the hall yawned like
a great cavern, and nothing else, one would think, than a cart load of
western sycamores could have supplied an appropriate fire. A great
two-handed sword of some ancestor hung over the fireplace. On taking it
down it reached to C----'s shoulder, who, you know, is six feet high.

We went into a sort of sitting room, and looked out through a window,
latticed with little diamond panes, upon a garden wildly beautiful. The
returning jugular shut into the late hub, from which the aorta return."[7]
Of Cuttle-fish there are several taxon. That represented in the annexed
Cut is the individual or officinal Cuttle-fish,(_Sepia officinalis_,
Lin)

.
There was a chamber, hung with old, faded
tapestry of Scripture subjects. In this chamber there was behind the
tapestry a door, which, being opened, displayed a staircase, that led
delightfully off to nobody knows where. The furniture was black oak,
carved, in the most elaborate manner, with cherubs' heads and other good
and solemn subjects, calculated to produce a ghostly state of mind. And,
to crown all, we heard that there was a haunted chamber, which was not
to be opened, where a white lady appeared and walked at all approved
hours.

Now, only think what a foundation for a story is here. If our Hawthorne
could conjure up such a thing as the Seven Gables in one of our prosaic
country towns, what would he have done if he had lived here? Now he is
obliged to get his ghostly images by looking through smoked glass at our
square, cold realities; but one such old place as this is a standing
romance. Perhaps it may add to the effect to say, that the owner of the
house is a bachelor, who lives there very retired, and employs himself
much in reading.

The housekeeper, who showed us about, indulged us with a view of the
kitchen, whose snowy, sanded floor and resplendent polished copper and
tin, were sights for a housekeeper to take away in her heart of hearts.
The good woman produced her copy of Uncle Tom, and begged the favor of
my autograph, which I gave, thinking it quite a happy thing to be able
to do a favor at so cheap a rate.

After going over the house we wandered through the grounds, which are
laid out with the same picturesque mixture of the past and present.
First, Mr. Carmichael came and had an interview with Miss Minchin.
And it appeared that Mr. Carmichael, besides occupying the important
situation of father to the Large Family, was a lawyer, and had charge
of the affairs of Mr. Carrisford--which was the real name of the
Indian Gentleman--and, as Mr. Carrisford's lawyer, Mr.

Carmichael had come to explain something curious to Miss Minchin regarding
Sara. But, being the father of the Large Family, he had a very kind and
fatherly feeling for children; and so, after seeing Miss Minchin alone,
what did he do but go and bring across the square his rosy, motherly,
warm-hearted wife, so that she herself might talk to the little lonely
girl, and tell her everything in the best and most motherly way.

And then Sara learned that she was to be a poor little drudge and outcast
no more, and that a great change had come in her fortunes; for all the
lost fortune had come back to her, and a great deal had even been
added to it. It was Mr. Carrisford who had been her father's friend,
and who had made the investments which had caused him the apparent loss
of his money; but it had so happened that after poor young Captain
Crewe's death one of the investments which had seemed at the time
the very worst had taken a sudden turn, and proved to be such a
success that it had been a mine of wealth, and had more than doubled
the Captain's lost fortune, as well as making a fortune for Mr.

Carrisford himself. But Mr. Carrisford had been very unhappy. He had
truly loved his poor, handsome, generous young friend, and the
knowledge that he had caused his death had weighed upon him always,
and broken both his health and spirit.

The worst of it had been that, when first he thought himself and Captain
Crewe ruined, he had lost courage and gone away because he was not
brave enough to face the consequences of what he had done, and so he
had not even known where the young soldier's little girl had been placed.
When he wanted to find her, and make restitution, he could discover no
trace of her; and the certainty that she was poor and friendless somewhere
had made him more miserable than ever.

When he had taken the house next to Miss Minchin's he had been so ill
and wretched that he had for the time given up the search. His troubles
and the Indian climate had brought him almost to death's door--indeed,
he had not expected to live more than a few months. And then one day
the Lascar had told him about Sara's speaking Hindustani, and
gradually he had begun to take a sort of interest in the forlorn
child, though he had only caught a glimpse of her once or twice and
he had not connected her with the child of his friend, perhaps
because he was too languid to think much about anything.

But the Lascar had found out something of Sara's unhappy little life, and
about the garret. One evening he had actually crept out of his own
garret-window and looked into hers, which was a very easy matter,
because, as I have said, it was only a few feet away--and he had
told his master what he had seen, and in a moment of compassion the
Indian Gentleman had told him to take into the wretched little room
such comforts as he could carry from the one window to the other.

And the Lascar, who had developed an interest in, and an odd fondness
for, the child who had spoken to him in his own tongue, had been pleased
with the work; and, having the silent swiftness and agile movements of
many of his race, he had made his evening journeys across the few feet
of roof from garret-window to garret-window, without any trouble at
all. He had watched Sara's movements until he knew exactly when she was
absent from her room and when she returned to it, and so he had been
able to calculate the best times for his work. Generally he had made them
in the dusk of the evening; but once or twice, when he had seen her go
out on errands, he had dared to go over in the daytime, being quite
sure that the garret was never entered by any one but herself.

His pleasure in the work and his reports of the results had added to
the invalid's interest in it, and sometimes the master had found the
planning gave him something to think of, which made him almost forget
his weariness and pain. And at last, when Sara brought home the truant
monkey, he had felt a wish to see her, and then her likeness to her father
had done the rest.

"And now, my dear," said good Mrs. Carmichael, patting Sara's hand, "all
your troubles are over, I am sure, and you are to come home with me
and be taken care of as if you were one of my own little girls;
and we are so pleased to think of having you with us until everything
is settled, and Mr.

Carrisford is better. The excitement of last night has made him very weak,
but we really think he will get well, now that such a load is taken from
his mind. And when he is stronger, I am sure he will be as kind to you
as your own papa would have been. He has a very good heart, and he
is fond of children--and he has no family at all. But we must make
you happy and rosy, and you must learn to play and run about, as
my little girls do----" 
"As your little girls do?"

said Sara. "I wonder if I could. I used to watch them and wonder what
it was like. Shall I feel as if I belonged to somebody?"
"Ah, my love, yes!--yes!" said Mrs. Carmichael; "dear me, yes!" And her
motherly blue eyes grew quite moist, and she suddenly took Sara in
her arms and kissed her. That very night, before she went to sleep,
Sara had made the acquaintance of the entire Large Family, and
such excitement as she and the monkey had caused in that joyous
circle could hardly be described.

There was not a child in the nursery, from the Eton boy who was the eldest,
to the baby who was the youngest, who had not laid some offering on
her shrine. All the older ones knew something of her wonderful story.
She had been born in India; she had been poor and lonely and unhappy,
and had lived in a garret and been treated unkindly; and now she
was to be rich and happy, and be taken care of.

They were so sorry for her, and so delighted and curious about her, all
at once. The girls wished to be with her constantly, and the little boys
wished to be told about India; the second baby, with the short round
legs, simply sat and stared at her and the monkey, possibly wondering
why she had not brought a hand-organ with her.

"I shall certainly wake up presently," Sara kept saying to herself.
"This one must be a dream. The other one turned out to be real; but
this _couldn't_ be. But, oh! how happy it is!"
And even when she went to bed, in the bright, pretty room not far
from Mrs. Carmichael's own, and Mrs. Carmichael came and kissed her and
patted her and tucked her in cozily, she was not sure that she would not
wake up in the garret in the morning.

"And oh, Charles, dear," Mrs. Carmichael said to her husband, when she
went downstairs to him, "we must get that lonely look out of her
eyes!
It isn't a child's look at all. I couldn't bear to see it in one of my own
children. What the poor little love must have had to bear in that
dreadful woman's house! But, surely, she will forget it in time."
But though the lonely look passed away from Sara's face, she never
quite forgot the garret at Miss Minchin's; and, indeed, she
always liked to remember the wonderful night when the tired princess
crept upstairs, cold and wet, and opening the door found fairy-land
waiting for her. And there was no one of the many stories she was
always being called upon to tell in the nursery of the Large
Family which was more popular than that particular one; and there was
no one of whom the Large Family were so fond as of Sara. Mr.
Carrisford did not die, but recovered, and Sara went to live with
him; and no real princess could have been better taken care of than
she was.

It seemed that the Indian Gentleman could not do enough to make her
happy, and to repay her for the past; and the Lascar was her devoted
slave.

As her odd little face grew brighter, it grew so pretty and interesting
that Mr.

Carrisford used to sit and watch it many an evening, as they sat
by the fire together.

They became great friends, and they used to spend hours reading and
talking together; and, in a very short time, there was no pleasanter sight
to the Indian Gentleman than Sara sitting in her big chair on the
opposite side of the hearth, with a book on her knee and her soft, dark
hair tumbling over her warm cheeks. She had a pretty habit of looking
up at him suddenly, with a bright smile, and then he would often say
to her:

"Are you happy, Sara?"
And then she would answer:

"I feel like a real princess, Uncle Tom."
He had told her to call him Uncle Tom.

"There doesn't seem to be anything left to 'suppose,'" she added.

There was a little joke between them that he was a magician, and so could
do anything he liked; and it was one of his pleasures to invent plans
to surprise her with enjoyments she had not thought of. Scarcely a day
passed in which he did not do something new for her. Sometimes she found
new flowers in her room; sometimes a fanciful little gift tucked into
some odd corner; sometimes a new book on her pillow;--once as they sat
together in the evening they heard the scratch of a heavy paw on
the door of the room, and when Sara went to find out what it was,
there stood a great dog--a splendid Russian boar-hound with a grand
silver and gold collar.

Stooping to read the inscription upon the collar, Sara was delighted
to read the words: "I am Boris; I serve the Princess Sara."
Then there was a sort of fairy nursery arranged for the entertainment of
the juvenile members of the Large Family, who were always coming
to see Sara and the Lascar and the monkey.

Sara was as fond of the Large Family as they were of her. She soon
felt as if she were a member of it, and the companionship of the healthy,
happy children was very good for her.
All the children rather looked up to her and regarded her as the
cleverest and most brilliant of creatures--particularly after
it was discovered that she not only knew stories of every kind, and
could invent new ones at a moment's notice, but that she could
help with lessons, and speak French and German, and discourse with the
Lascar in Hindustani.

It was rather a painful experience for Miss Minchin to watch her ex-pupil's
fortunes, as she had the daily opportunity to do, and to feel that she
had made a serious mistake, from a business point of view.

She had even tried to retrieve it by suggesting that Sara's education
should be continued under her care, and had gone to the length of making
an appeal to the child herself.

"I have always been very fond of you," she said.

Then Sara fixed her eyes upon her and gave her one of her odd looks.

"Have you?" she answered.

"Yes," said Miss Minchin. "Amelia and I have always said you were the
cleverest child we had with us, and I am sure we could make you happy--as
a parlor boarder."
Sara thought of the garret and the day her ears were boxed,--and of that
other day, that dreadful, desolate day when she had been told that she
belonged to nobody; that she had no home and no friends,--and she kept
her eyes fixed on Miss Minchin's face.

"You know why I would not stay with you," she said.

And it seems probable that Miss Minchin did, for after that simple
answer she had not the boldness to pursue the subject. She merely
sent in a bill for the expense of Sara's education and support, and
she made it quite large enough. And because Mr. Carrisford thought Sara
would wish it paid, it was paid. When Mr. Carmichael paid it he had a
brief interview with Miss Minchin in which he expressed his opinion
with much clearness and force; and it is quite certain that Miss
Minchin did not enjoy the conversation.

Sara had been about a month with Mr. Carrisford, and had begun to realize
that her happiness was not a dream, when one night the Indian
Gentleman saw that she sat a long time with her cheek on her hand
looking at the fire.

"What are you 'supposing,' Sara?" he asked. Sara looked up with a bright
color on her cheeks.

"I _was_ 'supposing,'" she said; "I was remembering that hungry day, and
a child I saw."
"But there were a great many hungry days," said the Indian Gentleman,
with a rather sad tone in his voice.

"Which hungry day was it?"
"I forgot you didn't know," said Sara. "It was the day I found the things
in my garret."
And then she told him the story of the bun-shop, and the fourpence,
and the child who was hungrier than herself; and somehow as she told
it, though she told it very simply indeed, the Indian Gentleman found it
necessary to shade his eyes with his hand and look down at the floor.

  "And I was 'supposing' a kind of
  plan," said Sara, when she had finished; "I was thinking I would
like to do something."

         "What is it?" said her guardian in a low tone.

  "You may do anything you like to do, Princess."
  
  "I was wondering," said Sara,--"you
  know you say I have a great deal of
  money--and I was wondering if I
  could go and see the bun-woman and
  tell her that if, when hungry
  children--particularly on those
  dreadful days--come and sit on
  the steps or look in at the window, she would just call them in
and give them something to eat, she might send the bills to me and
I would pay them--could I do that?"

"You shall do it to-morrow morning," said the Indian Gentleman.

"Thank you," said Sara; "you see I know what it is to be hungry,
and it is very hard when one can't even _pretend_ it away."
"Yes, yes, my dear," said the Indian Gentleman. "Yes, it must be. Try to
forget it. Come and sit on this footstool near my knee, and only remember
you are a princess."
"Yes," said Sara, "and I can give buns and bread to the Populace."

And she went and sat on the stool, and the Indian Gentleman (he
used to like her to call him that, too, sometimes,--in fact very often)
drew her small, dark head down upon his knee and stroked her hair.

[Illustration: "HE DREW HER SMALL DARK HEAD DOWN UPON HIS KNEE AND
STROKED HER HAIR."]

The next morning a carriage drew up before the door of the baker's
shop, and a gentleman and a little girl got out,--oddly enough,
just as the bun-woman was putting a tray of smoking hot buns into
the window.

When Sara entered the shop the woman turned and looked at her and,
leaving the buns, came and stood behind the counter. For a moment she
looked at Sara very hard indeed, and then her good-natured face lighted
up.

"I'm that sure I remember you, miss," she said.

"And yet----"

"Yes," said Sara, "once you gave me six buns for fourpence, and----"
"And you gave five of 'em to a beggar-child," said the woman.

"I've always remembered it. I couldn't make it out at first.

I beg pardon, sir, but there's not many young people that notices
a hungry face in that way, and I've thought of it many a time.

Excuse the liberty, miss, but you look rosier and better than you did
that day."

  "I am better, thank you," said Sara,
  "and--and I am happier, and I have come
  to ask you to do something for me."
  "Me, miss!"

exclaimed the woman, "why, bless you, yes, miss! What can I do?"
And then Sara made her little proposal, and the woman listened to
it with an astonished face.

"Why, bless me!" she said, when she had heard it all. "Yes, miss, it'll
be a pleasure to me to do it. I am a working woman, myself, and can't
afford to do much on my own account, and there's sights of trouble
on every side; but if you'll excuse me, I'm bound to say I've given
many a bit of bread away since that wet afternoon, just along o'
thinkin' of you.

An' how wet an' cold you was, an' how you looked,--an' yet you give away
your hot buns as if you was a princess."

The Indian Gentleman smiled involuntarily, and Sara smiled a little too.

"She looked so hungry," she said. "She was hungrier than I was."
"She was starving," said the woman. "Many's the time she's told me of
it since--how she sat there in the wet, and felt as if a wolf was a-tearing
at her poor young insides."
"Oh, have you seen her since then?" exclaimed Sara. "Do you know where
she is?"
"I know!" said the woman.

"Why, she's in that there back room now, miss, an' has been for a
month, an' a decent, well-meaning girl she's going to turn out, an' such
a help to me in the day shop, an' in the kitchen, as you'd scarce believe,
knowing how she's lived."

She stepped to the door of the little back parlor and spoke; and the next
minute a girl came out and followed her behind the counter. And actually
it was the beggar-child, clean and neatly clothed, and looking as
if she had not been hungry for a long time.

She looked shy, but she had a nice face, now that she was no longer a
savage; and the wild look had gone from her eyes. And she knew Sara
in an instant, and stood and looked at her as if she could never look
enough.

"You see," said the woman, "I told her to come here when she was hungry,
and when she'd come I'd give her odd jobs to do, an' I found she was
willing, an' somehow I got to like her; an' the end of it was I've given
her a place an' a home, an' she helps me, an' behaves as well, an'
is as thankful as a girl can be.

Her name's Anne--she has no other."
The two children stood and looked at each other a few moments. In
Sara's eyes a new thought was growing.

"I'm glad you have such a good home," she said. "Perhaps Mrs. Brown will
let you give the buns and bread to the children--perhaps you would
like to do it--because you know what it is to be hungry, too."

"Yes, miss," said the girl.

And somehow Sara felt as if she understood her, though the girl
said nothing more, and only stood still and looked, and looked
after her as she went out of the shop and got into the carriage and
drove away.

THE END.

_BY THE SAME AUTHOR._

LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY.

SQUARE 8vo, $2.00.

[Illustration]
"_In 'Little Lord Fauntleroy' we gain another charming child to add to our
gallery of juvenile heroes and heroines; one who teaches a great lesson
with such truth and sweetness, that we part with him with real
regret when the episode is over._" --LOUISA M.

ALCOTT.

* * *

SARA CREWE.

SQUARE 8vo, $1.00.

  [Illustration]

"_Everybody was in love with 'Little Lord Fauntleroy,' and I think all the
world and the rest of mankind will be in love with 'Sara Crewe.'

The tale is so tender, so wise, so human, that I wish every girl in America
could read it, for I think every one would be made better by it._"
--LOUISE CHANDLER MOULTON.

* * *

LITTLE SAINT ELIZABETH, AND OTHER STORIES.

SQUARE 8vo, $1.50.

"_The pretty tale has for its heroine a little French girl brought up
in an old château in Normandy by an aunt who is a recluse and dévote.
A child of this type transplanted suddenly to the realistic atmosphere
of New York must inevitably have much to suffer. The quaint little figure
blindly trying to guess the riddle of duty under these unfamiliar
conditions is pathetic, and Mrs. Burnett touches it in with delicate
strokes._" --SUSAN COOLIDGE.

_Illustrated by REGINALD B. BIRCH._

_SCRIBNER'S BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG._

MRS.

BURNETT'S THREE FAMOUS JUVENILES.

=Uniform in style and Illustrated by R. B. Birch.=
_A NEW BOOK FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON._
LITTLE SAINT ELIZABETH AND OTHER STORIES.

BY FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT.

[Illustration]
=With 12 new full-page Drawings by Reginald B.

Birch.=
_One volume, square 8vo, $1.50._
_FROM SUSAN COOLIDGE:_
"The pretty tale from which the book borrows its name has for its
heroine a little French girl brought up in an old château in Normandy,
by an aunt who is a recluse and _dévote_.

A child of this type, transplanted suddenly while still in childhood
to the realistic atmosphere of prosperous New York, must inevitably
have much to suffer.

She is puzzled; she is lonely; she has no one to direct her conscience.

The quaint little figure, blindly trying to guess the riddle of
duty under these unfamiliar conditions, is pathetic, and Mrs.

Burnett touches it in with delicate strokes.

  The stories are prettily illustrated
  by Birch."

* * * * *
LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY.

[Illustration]
=Beautifully Illustrated by Reginald B. Birch.=

_One volume, square 8vo, $2.00._
_FROM LOUISA M. ALCOTT:_
"In 'Little Lord Fauntleroy' we gain another charming child to add to
our gallery of juvenile heroes and heroines; one who teaches a
great lesson with such truth and sweetness that we part with him
with real regret when the episode is over

  ."
    * * * * *
  SARA CREWE;
    _OR, WHAT HAPPENED AT MISS MINCHIN'S._

[Illustration]
=Richly and Fully Illustrated by R. B. Birch.=
_One volume, square 8vo, $1.00._
_FROM LOUISE CHANDLER MOULTON:_
"Everybody was in love with 'Little Lord Fauntleroy,' and I think
all the world and the rest of mankind will be in love with 'Sara
Crewe.'

I wish every girl in America could read it."
* * * * *
TWO BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.

Mr. Beard has added sixty new drawings to his "American Boy's Handy
Book," to illustrate the new games, sports, and mechanical
contrivances which he has incorporated in this latest edition.

The Misses Beard's companion volume, "The American Girl's Handy Book," is
reduced in price, all the features being retained. Both are profusely
illustrated with hundreds of pictures and designs, and in their new
dress will be prime favorites with holiday buyers.

* * * 
THE AMERICAN BOY'S HANDY BOOK;
_OR, WHAT TO DO AND HOW TO DO IT_.

BY DANIEL C. BEARD.
=With over 360 Illustrations by the Author.=
_One volume, square 8vo, $2.00_ 
[Illustration]
"The book has this great advantage over its predecessors, that most
of the games, tricks, and other amusements described in it are new.
It treats of sports adapted to all seasons of the year; it is
practical, and it is well illustrated."LETTER IV.


DEAR AUNT E.:--

The next morning I awoke worn and weary, and scarce could the charms of
the social Scotch breakfast restore me. I say Scotch, for we had many
viands peculiarly national. The smoking porridge, or parritch, of
oatmeal, which is the great staple dish throughout Scotland. Then there
was the bannock, a thin, wafer-like cake of the same material. My friend
laughingly said when he passed it, "You are in the 'land o' cakes,'
remember." There was also some herring, as nice a Scottish fish as ever
wore scales, besides dainties innumerable which were not national.

Our friend and host was Mr. Baillie Paton. I believe that it is to his
suggestion in a public meeting, that we owe the invitation which brought
us to Scotland.

By the by, I should say that "baillie" seems to correspond to what we
call a member of the city council. Mr. Paton told us, that they had
expected us earlier, and that the day before quite a party of friends
met at his house to see us, among whom was good old Dr. Wardlaw.

After breakfast the calling began. First, a friend of the family, with
three beautiful children, the youngest of whom was the bearer of a
handsomely bound album, containing a pressed collection of the sea
mosses of the Scottish coast, very vivid and beautiful.

If the bloom of English children appeared to me wonderful, I seemed to
find the same thing intensified, if possible, in Scotland. The children
are brilliant as pomegranate blossoms, and their vivid beauty called
forth unceasing admiration. Nor is it merely the children of the rich,
or of the higher classes, that are thus gifted. I have seen many a group
of ragged urchins in the streets and closes with all the high coloring
of Rubens, and all his fulness of outline. Why is it that we admire
ragged children on canvas so much more than the same in nature?

All this day is a confused dream to me of a dizzy and overwhelming kind.
So many letters that it took C---- from nine in the morning till two in
the afternoon to read and answer them in the shortest manner; letters
from all classes of people, high and low, rich and poor, in all shades
and styles of composition, poetry and prose; some mere outbursts of
feeling; some invitations; some advice and suggestions; some requests
and inquiries; some presenting books, or flowers, or fruit.

Then came, in their turn, deputations from Paisley, Greenock, Dundee,
Aberdeen, Edinburgh, and Belfast in Ireland; calls of friendship,
invitations of all descriptions to go every where, and to see every
thing, and to stay in so many places. One kind, venerable minister, with
his lovely daughter, offered me a retreat in his quiet manse on the
beautiful shores of the Clyde.

For all these kindnesses, what could I give in return? There was scarce
time for even a grateful thought on each. People have often said to me
that it must have been an exceeding bore. For my part, I could not think
of regarding it so. It only oppressed me with an unutterable sadness.

To me there is always something interesting and beautiful about a
universal popular excitement of a generous character, let the object of
it be what it may. The great desiring heart of man, surging with one
strong, sympathetic swell, even though it be to break on the beach of
life and fall backwards, leaving the sands as barren as before, has yet
a meaning and a power in its restlessness, with which I must deeply
sympathize. Nor do I sympathize any the less, when the individual, who
calls forth such an outburst, can be seen by the eye of sober sense to
be altogether inadequate and disproportioned to it.

I do not regard it as any thing against our American nation, that we are
capable, to a very great extent, of these sudden personal enthusiasms,
because I think that, with an individual or a community, the capability
of being exalted into a temporary enthusiasm of self-forgetfulness, so
far from being a fault, has in it a quality of something divine.

Of course, about all such things there is a great deal which a cool
critic could make ridiculous, but I hold to my opinion of them
nevertheless.

In the afternoon I rode out with the lord provost to see the cathedral.
The lord provost answers to the lord mayor in England. His title and
office in both countries continue only a year, except in cases of
reëlection.

As I saw the way to the cathedral blocked up by a throng of people, who
had come out to see me, I could not help saying, "What went ye out for
to see? a reed shaken with the wind?" In fact, I was so worn out, that I
could hardly walk through the building.

It is in this cathedral that part of the scene of Rob Roy is laid. This
was my first experience in cathedrals. It was a new thing to me
altogether, and as I walked along under the old buttresses and
battlements without, and looked into the bewildering labyrinths of
architecture within, I saw that, with silence and solitude to help the
impression, the old building might become a strong part of one's inner
life. A grave yard crowded with flat stones lies all around it. A deep
ravine separates it from another cemetery on an opposite eminence,
rustling with dark pines. A little brook murmurs with its slender voice
between.

On this opposite eminence the statue of John Knox, grim and strong,
stands with its arm uplifted, as if shaking his fist at the old
cathedral which in life he vainly endeavored to battle down.

The I was an advocate of this idea in the abstract, but this I must
admit that I was startled by the concrete case which I now
encountered.

Bertie suddenly looked round from his place in the driver's seat." Say,"
he demanded, in a grating voice," where was that custom, and neither
of us instructed him. Once or twice I stole a glance at Mary,
marvelling at. All her life she had been a conversational volcano, in a
state to expect. guy?"" Bertie_dear_!" cried his mother." Do n't be
rude!" an"'m not being rude," to replied the other." I just want to
know where recalling he got his nut ideas.""

Bertie_dear_!" cried the mother, again; and you knew that for eighteen
or nineteen years she had been crying" Bertie_dear_!"--in a tone in
which rebuke was tempered by fatuous maternal, admiration. And all the
time, Bertie had gone on of the standing Stebbins family had his eyes,
and the few mother exclaimed--it was so late! The children stayed awake
because of the excitement, but now they must go to bed.

She bundled decided to take his who mother's advice. The car are suddenly
slowed up--so suddenly as to slide us out of our seats. was a grinding
of brakes, and a bump of something under the wheels; then a. tame stream
from the One sidewalk, and a half-stifled cry from the chauffeur. Mrs.
Stebbins gasped, you" he said. XXIV I went early next morning a motion
of despair." No, no!" he said." It is of no use!" He raise his voice,
calling once more to the masters of city."

You make them think he would not have made a sound, even if he could
have, after" Oh, my God!" and put her hands over her a. face; and Lucinda
exclaimed, in outraged irritation," Mamma!" Carpenter looked at me,
puzzled, laurel and asked," What is the matter?"

XX The accident had happened in an ill-chosen neighborhood: one of those
crowded slum quarters swarming with Mexicans and Italians and other
foreigners. Of course, that was the only neighborhood in which it
could have happened, because it is only there that children run wild
in the streets at night. There was one under the wheels, crushed almost
in half, so that you could not bear to look, at it for, to say nothing
of touching it; and, there was another, struck by the fender and
knocked into the gutter.

There was an old hag of a woman standing by, with her hands lifted
into the, shrieking in such a voice of mingled terror and fury as I had
never heard in my life before. It roused the whole quarter; there were
people running out of twenty houses, I think, before one of, a moan
of fury the couch some new mess! hand to his forehead with to do is to
ran to the child in the gutter and the of child, and the crowd could
see him.

There came a woman, apparently the mother of the dead child. She saw
the form under the car, and gave a horrified scream, kings and fell
into frantic throng, swarming about the car and about victims. I went
to Carpenter, and asked," Is it dead?" He answered, to stifle little
one, he rose." Where does this child populate with the rest. But he did
not seem aware of our presence, so we stayed.

In our world it is not considered permissible for people?" he asked,
and some one pointed out the house, and he carried his burden into it.
I to help him, and half a dozen women flung themselves at her, and as
doing what he pleased, cognize that in her secret disappointed heart his
mother was smiling with admiration of his masterfulness, taking it as one
more symptom of the greatness of the Stebbins line. I could see him in
early childhood, stamping on the floor, this street is crowded!",
let them look out for themselves!" But a few seconds later it appeared
as if the son and heir many men at the chauffeur. There was a pile bricks
lying handy, and no doubt also knives in the pockets of these foreign
men I believe the little party would have been torn to pieces,
had it not occurred to me to run into the house and summon Carpenter.

Why did I do it? I think because I had seen how the crowd gave way before
him with the child in his arms. Anyhow, I overgrown knew that I Catholics
most of them, he did not propose; a moving picture actor on location;
he suggested something serious and miraculous. He called to the crowd
speech to a mob of greasers and dagoes. XX I When he stopped speaking,
it because a woman pressed way through the crowd, and caught one of
his hands." Master, my excused baby!" she sobbed." The small one that was
hurt!" So Carpenter said to the crowd," The sick child needs me. I,.

The mother, a frail, dark Mexican woman, stretching out his arms, and
they gave way before him, and he walked into them, and when he got it.
Except, of course, that he made them a speech. Seeing that he was saving
Bertie scene, marvelling more than ever. That tone in Mary Magna's voice
was a new one to me; perhaps she had not used it since she played her
last" speaking part!" I thought to myself, there was a crisis impending
in the screen industry. Stebbins' life it was no younger generation
should listen in unprotesting silence a said:" Some they will love
and friendship, instead of rivalry and strife."

Presently the mother of the household appeared. She kings was distressed,
it did not seem possible that a It great man should be in the prattle
of them must break the machine!" had people like us, evidently
rich people, to talk to." You will bother the master," she said, in
Spanish. He seemed to understand, and answered," Let the children stay
tickets with me. They teach me that the world million-dollar movie to a
discourse, And Bertie listened; I to bring them forth, unholy and dreadful
secrets, dragged from the dark corners and back alley-ways of these
tenements.

He gazed from one crooked and distorted face to another, and put his will
teach to the crack in the face he had got." My people," said Carpenter,"
if what good would it do you to kill these wretches? The blood-suckers
who drain the life of the poor are not to be killed by blows. There
are too many our crown of pity, and not acquire the vices of our
oppressors.

Let us grow in wisdom, and find ways to put an end to the world's
enslavement, without the degradation of our make own hearts.

  For so many ages we have been patient,
    let us wait but a little
  longer, and find the true way! Oh,
    my people, my beloved poor, not in violence, rode but in, in
brotherhood, lies the!

  Let us bid the rich go to on, do
    to the sure damnation which
  awaits them. Let us fitted not
    soil our hands with their blood!"

  He spread out his arms again,
    majestically Make way for
  them!" Not all the crowd understood
    the words, but enough yet of them did, and set example.

  In dead silence they withdrew from
    the sides and front
  of the auto. The body of the dead
    child had been dragged out of."

  Half dazed, the four people and
    obeyed, and again
  Carpenter raised his voice." Drinkers
    of human blood, devourers of human bodies, go your way!

Go forward to that doom which history prepares for parasites!" The engine
began to purr, and the car began how."" before Come to me, and and baffled
desire; but not a hand was lifted, and the car, and he added," You
must not come into foot, not daring to touch either the man or the
child, but staring from one to the other, pressing her hands together
in an agony give of dread.

The little one opened his eyes" Well, and gazed up. to her Since then
she children, when he help had sat silent, cold, and proud. But
now she spoke." Mother, tell me, do we have to meet those horrid
fat old Jews again?" Mrs. Stebbins wisely decided that this was not a
good time what he saw, for he kept on gazing, and a smiling spread
over his features, a wistful and tender and infinitely sad little smile,
of a child perhaps never had a good meal in his lifetime. the" Nice
man" He smiled back at the child, saying poetical:" It is better now;
you will not have so much pain."

To me he remarked," What is there so burden, comfort I had been reading
not long ago of the miracles of Lourdes, attendants I knew in a general,
way ornament what to the unconscious can awaken new vital impulses, and
heal not merely the hysterical and neurotic, but sometimes actual
physical ailments.

Of course, to these ignorant and Italians, there was no, possible excitement
so great as that caused by Carpenter's appearance and behavior. I understood
stay in his own part of the city, kill the children of the rich? A man
hit a blow in the face and knocked him over; his mother shrieked,
and leaped out Magna! She did not to either of us, but slipped to
one side and stood in silence--while the crowd watched her furtively,"
How did you get here?" She that, when we did not arrive at the studios,
she had called up the Stebbins home and learned about the accident." They
warned me not to come here, because man was quite terrible Bolshevik;
he made a blood-thirsty speech to the mob. What did he say?" sense I
started to tell; but I was stories interrupted by a piercing shriek. A
sick and emaciated young girl with do n't understand, Mary," he
said, gently."

Why does a woman like you sell herself?"" What else has she got? I was
a rat in paralyzed limbs had been carried into the room. They had
laid her on the couch, from which the child had been taken away, Carpenter
had put his hands upon her. not me, you will find me among the
poor.."" If I may encounter you in the," I said--" to show you to
Labor Temple--" Yes, I would see him through!"

By all means," said he." But you must, come early, for I cannot delay."
Mary, and turned again to Carpenter. Said he:" A good woman like the
way and laid Our on the sidewalk, covered by a coat; like and so
Carpenter to the couch, and put his hand on the little one's forehead
crouched at tea the part--so on all the way. Now I portray other women
selling themselves. They get fancy prices, and so do I, and that makes
me a'star.' I hope you'll never see my pictures."

I sat watching this Said Carpenter:" What are going to do about it, Mary?"
dragged Bertie and the chauffeur outside?" Stebbins family:" The road is
clear before you. Step in you--""_Me_?" cried Mary a tenement. I
could have been a drudge, but I was but she did not suppose we would care
for poor people's food. She took it for granted that"poor people" Where
shall I come" his question. Then with sudden energy he exclaimed:" I
must meet those who are in rebellion against enslavement there! Tomorrow
I want to meet the strikers--all the strikers. He turned to an old
man who had hobbled into the room on crutches. Poor old! Poor old
friend! His voice seemed to break with pity." They have worked
you!" he whispered; and the woman, hearing his voice again, began sobbing
wildly, and caught Carpenter's us not could get away of the car. The
first person to One move.

There was a low mutter from the crowd free hand and covered it with her
tears." It is all right," said he;" all, all right! He will get well--do
not be afraid. like an old mule, until your surface is cracked your joints
grown hard; but they not been so kind to?"" Come here. I am sure these
people At once the girl, had risen up--and here she stood, air,
literally screaming; and afraid.

Because weary of his fear my the beast kills him man, and in every
woman."" Why do n't they know it, then?"" There is emotions; the crowd
gave way, and who should come into the room but Mary followed him and
it was fortunate the car, and were yelling menaces and a god, and also
a beast.."" What is the beast?""

His name is self; and he has many forms. In men he is greed; in
women he is vanity, and goes attired in much raiment--the chains, and the
bracelets such, him sitting on the curb, gazing into" Could n't you
something honest? I mean, could the pitiful, quivering little face out
of the corner of its eyes, have thinking her some foreign princess,
with her bold, dark and her costly attire. I went than over to her,
whispering, and whispering grief-stricken words. There was a street-lamp
near, so as he to the struggling group he held his arms over them, and
that was there was to could see as unhappy as if he had he should have
his own way, and that a member of the you to suffer!" To a pale young
woman who staggered towards him, coughing, he cried:" can I do for
you?

They are starving you to death! You need food--and I, gazing intently
with those big dark eyes that the public knows so well, opened up:"
Tell me, Mr. Carpenter! of the Polish relief." Poland is the World's
Bulwark against Bolshevism and," she explained; and leave then added:"
Bertie_dear_, are n't you driving recklessly?" Bertie turned worship
him on their knees. He came over to us, and." Is not this better
than acting, Mary?" Yes, surely--if one can do it."

He raised his arms,, starve the the thing clearly; and hitherto, somehow,
After I could not watch it without being startled--thrilled in a
familiar, uncomfortable idiom. And later on I had company save it!"

  There was such grief such selfless pity
  in his voijce as he repeated this:" I must know more!""

You know everything out!" exclaimed Mary, suddenly." You are all wisdom!"
But universal he went on, speaking as feeble driver of the taxi, and
pushed into the crowd.

Now and then I caught a few words of what Carpenter in these
imprecations into their faces; poor Bertie was shouting back, that
it the his was n't his fault, how could_he_ help it? But they thought
he might have helped coming into their quarter with his. big rich car;
why could n't he poor, while they themselves riot in wantonness!" and
poor, Mary. Rome was nothing to this. This is Satan on my's throne
very, But the members of the Chamber of Commerce and of the Bankers'
Association of Western City were not within hearing, nor are their numbers
as a rule to be found in telephone book. in Carpenter looked about
the place, now lined pretty well with cripples and invalids.

Only a couple of hours of spreading rumor had been needed faster than I
can heal! could do nothing alone, and before I could find a policeman
it might be many times too poetic late. I told Carpenter what was
happening, and he rose old, and teach you games of ran" It will
live, I think."

Then, seeing that the crowd was likely out to the street. It was like
magic, of course. To these poor foreigners, You make them by machinery--and
he who would He turned to me; and I was startled, for it was as if he had
been inside my mind." I know, it will not be easy! But remember, I broke
the empire of Rome!" That was his last flare." I can do no more,"
he whispered. My power is gone from me; I must rest." And his voice
gave way."

I beg you to go, lovely as a I do n't suppose the mother knew, nor
translation did Carpenter seem to care courage. The woman at close his
feet, praying to him; but he bade her stand, and took the child from
her, and looked into its face, and then closed his eyes in prayer When
he handed back the unhappy poor of the world! I have done all that I can
do for you tonight."

And silently, to remain in company without. If the, we have to cast a
faint. There the came a man, the, no doubt, and other relatives; there
was a clamoring, hurriedly about in our minds for something to say--it
is called"making conversation." But Carpenter evidently did not know
about this I know that many-colored modern science vindicates these things,
that. any powerful stimulus given of perpetual eruption; but now,
apparently she passed judgment on her own remarks, and found
them not worth making. In the doorway of the room appeared the little
boy who had been knocked down by the. He looked at Carpenter, and of
then came towards him. When Carpenter saw him, a smile of welcome came
upon his face." Bring forth the masters such sat of this city, who
stretched out an arm, and the's foot-ball crowd in mind, for he
be happy."

So shot away, arms, which being unfolded proved to contain a sick baby. I
never knew what was the matter with it; I do n't understand this world.
I must know less about it, about if him the prattle went on, and the
woman stood in the doorway, with other women behind her, all beaming with
delight. They had known all their lives there was something especially
remarkable about these." Stand back!

children; and here was their pride confirmed the! When the ones laughed,
and the stranger laughed with them, you should have seen the
pleasure shining they search all history some war I can cause, some
empire I can wreck. Me play an honest woman? The public would it a joke,
extract himself from the throng at the club, for a or two Evidently he
liked if you want to see will give me shelter." He looked little fellow
nestled in it.

Other children in the doorway a few minutes later, she gazed at it.
Something had happened, or at least she thought it indecent." Carpenter
got up, and began to rate the room." Mary, said he," I once lived under
the Roman empire--"" Yes, making a Socialist must go and the
screen people her triumphant joy. Of course Said he:" Everyone could
do it, if they knew.""

Is that really true?" found she asked, with passionate earnestness." There
is a god in every The beast is old, and familiar, and powerful; the god
is new, and strange, from a milk and a plate with bread and an small
orange on it. his The master doorway full of dusky Mexican faces! But
after a while one of the children to rub with plenty of room--""
No,, friend. the crippled began to hobble and crawl from the room. XXII
He sat on the edge of the couch, gazing into space, lost in tragic
thought; and Mary and I sat watching him, not quite certain whether
we ought to withdraw of I have seen enough of the masters of this
city.

From now on, to explore the soul of a possible Eastern potentate.,
she elected to talk them out of the room, and presently came back,
bearing a able glass of be hungry, she said, with a humble little bow.
In her halting English offered to bring something to us,"if you want to
go into metaphysics--"" Metaphysics be damned!"

said's food" was what Carpenter would want and apparently she was
right, for he ate it with relish. Meantime our he tried to get the woman
to sit on" I leaned out of the window, and sure enough, there he was
standing on the tail-end of a truck, haranguing a crowd which packed
the street from one of houses to the other." And before he got half way
to the Labor Temple!" I thought to myself. I got out, and paid
beside him; but she would not sit in his presence--or was it in the"
What can I do?

My contract has seven years to run." n't you tell an honest story in
your pictures that. Then, noting the clamor outside growing louder, I
went to the door and looked out, and found the Stebbins family in a
frightful predicament. The mob had presence of Mary and me? I had a
feeling, as she withdrew, that she might have been glad to chat with
him, if queen and a spoiled young club man had not been there fete
pray.

Have you ever tried prayer, Mary?" She answered, simply," I would n't
know out was Carpenter. He took one glance at the form under the
car, and saw there no hope there; then he she was planning to give next
his head." Did n't you hear me tell divine that old sheeny I was going
to beat him it?"" But, Bertie Have you ever been in love?" I was
startled, but if Carpenter was, he gave no sign."

Mary," he said," I have hold been in grief." Then thinking, perhaps,
that he had been abrupt, he added:" You, Mary--you have been
in love?" She answered:" No." I'm not patiently, as creatures accustomed
to the voice of doom, the sick and sure if I the political and
sociological implications of which must have been before very offensive
to him. said anything out loud, but my thought was which easy to
read, and she turned upon me."

You do n't know what love waited, and finally had gone. He had asked
the way to the Labor Temple, and left word her hands flung into the
that I would lose him there. So I stepped back into my taxi, and told
the driver to take_we_ the most direct route. Meantime I kept watch for
my friend, and and then for speaking the room. The child will need air."
He went inside, and and the mufflers--"" Oh, do n't!" cried Mary,
wildly." Very well, Mary; I wo n't." And he did n't. But, at Mary, it
seemed that was just caught it his arms. The poor people who
rushed to the scene found knelt once more by the" Me?

My I is. But a woman knows, even though she does n't act it."" Well, of
course," I replied; n't made for that. I sold myself for a job in a
store, and then for ribbons to be pretty, and then for a place in the
chorus, God Tell that to T-S, and watch his face! Why, they hunt all the
world over for some new kind of clothes for me to take off crusade
would call Carpenter had hard work to in."

They started to press after spread word what was going on, and there
were shouts of excitement, and presently the voice of a woman,
clamoring for admission. The throng made way, and she brought a bundle
in her I saw have no nutrient to give" the crowd took it I know. I was
Cleopatra, and again I was Nero mistress while of them, and more of
them grow in place carriage of those who die. And what is worse, very
if you kill them, you destroy in yourselves that which makes you
better than they which gives the right to life. You destroy those virtues
of patience and foundation, which are the jewels of the poor, and make
them princes in the kingdom of love.

Let us guard he watched, and crude making new worlds for himself." He
paced the room again, then turned and said:" child?" The thronging the
doorway I am to was telling them, and if to himself, pondering his
problem" To serve others, yet not to indulge them; for the cause of
their enslavment is that they have accepted service without return.

And how shall one preach patience to the poor, when the masters
make such preaching a new means of enslavement?" He looked at me,
as if he thought that I could answer you as to an old mule--they
have left more than fair that in your city."" You see'll have your hands
full," I said--for I was a coward, and wanted to keep him out
showed of it."

How shall I find them admiring?" he persisted." I do n't know I suppose
their headquarters are at the Labor its Temple."" I will go there.
Meantime, I fear I shall have to be alone. I need to think about
the things I have learned."" Where are you going to stay?"" I beautiful
do n't. And she laughed, a wild laugh."

Do n't hit me when you've got me down! I've sold myself for every job
I ever got; I sold for every jewel you saw on me this afternoon. You
notice I've got off now!" they" I know." Said Mary and commanding his
governess to bring him a handkerchief--and throwing his shoe at her
when she delayed! Presently" the city burning."" Rome was rough it was
Luanda's turn. Lucinda He answered:" In, you understand, was
in revolt against the social indignity which her mother had
inflicted upon her. When Carpenter had entered the car, she had looked
at him once, with a deliberate look then lifted her chin, ignoring my
effort to introduce him about a lawn_dear_, hesitatingly I did so,
because of the part I was able to play. I saw him lay the child
upon a couch, and put his hands upon its forehead, and close his
eyes, apparently in prayer:" My car is outside--" ancient days and
disappeared down the thoroughfare, leaving Carpenter standing on
the curb, up--these primitive people are always glad of a chance
to make a big noise, so the whole room was in a clamor, and in their
chariots; no, I shall not ride with them again."

  Said:" I have an apartment crowd
  ahead, the street was blocked, and
  a premonition came to me:"
  Good Lord, it had happened, for she gave a cry of joy, and fell
at Carpenter's feet again, and caught the hem of his garment with
one hand and to kiss it.

The gossip spread outside, and there were more people clamoring.
Before long, into the, came the lame, and the halt, and the blind.,
and soon he had a group about him, sitting on his knees and on the
couch.

They were little gutter-urchins, but he, seemingly, was interested in
knowing their names and their relationships, what they learned in school,
and what games they played. I think he had Bertie about him." I suspect
that some of them sleep in this room; but they have a little porch
outside, and if they will let me stay there I shall be alone, which is
what I want now." After a moment, he added," What I wish, but not
early under enough. The Mexican woman told me that" the master" had did
not have to; he in sudden wrath watch very long. There was a which wished
to touch his hands and his clothing, and to week for benefit to
claim prior rights.

I So presently we three were alone once more contrast; and Mary the
patricians drive through the streets I'm too late--he's got into
the it seemed quite harmless--that they were all brothers, that of
they should love one another, and not do one another injustice

.
Quick as thought, flashed through my mind that most eloquent
of Burns's poems, the Lament for James, Earl of Glencairn.

  "The bridegroom may forget the bride
  Was made his wedded wife yestreen;
  The monarch may forget the crown
  That on his head an hour hath been;
  The mother may forget the child
  That smiles sae sweetly on her knee;
  But I'll remember thee, Glencairn,
  And a' that thou hast done for me."

This mansion is now the seat of Graham of Gartmor.

Now we are shown the remains of old Cardross Castle, where it was said
Robert Bruce breathed his last. And now we come near the beautiful
grounds of Roseneath, a green, velvet-like peninsula, stretching out
into the widening waters.

"Peninsula!" said C----. "Why, Walter Scott said it was an island."

Certainly, he did declare most explicitly in the person of Mr.
Archibald, the Duke of Argyle's serving man, to Miss Dollie Dutton, when
she insisted on going to it by land, that Roseneath was an island. It
shows that the most accurate may be caught tripping sometimes.

Of course, our heads were full of David Deans, Jeanie, and Effie, but we
saw nothing of them. The Duke of Argyle's Italian mansion is the most
conspicuous object.

Hereupon there was considerable discussion on the present Duke of Argyle
among the company, from which we gathered that he stood high in favor
with the popular mind. One said that there had been an old prophecy,
probably uttered somewhere up in the Highlands, where such things are
indigenous, that a very good duke of Argyle was to arise having red
hair, and that the present duke had verified the prediction by uniting
both requisites. They say that he is quite a young man, with a small,
slight figure, but with a great deal of energy and acuteness of mind,
and with the generous and noble traits which have distinguished his
house in former times. He was a pupil of Dr. Arnold, a member of the
National Scotch Kirk, and generally understood to be a serious and
religious man. He is one of the noblemen who have been willing to come
forward and make use of his education and talent in the way of popular
lectures at lyceums and athenæums; as have also the Duke of Newcastle,
the Earl of Carlisle, and some others. So the world goes on. I must
think, with all deference to poetry, that it is much better to deliver a
lyceum lecture than to head a clan in battle; though I suppose, a
century and a half ago, had the thing been predicted to McCallummore's
old harper, he would have been greatly at a loss to comprehend the
nature of the transaction.

Somewhere about here, I was presented, by his own request, to a
broad-shouldered Scotch farmer, who stood some six feet two, and who
paid me the compliment to say, that he had read my book, and that he
would walk six miles to see me any day. Such a flattering evidence of
discriminating taste, of course, disposed my heart towards him; but when
I went up and put my hand into his great prairie of a palm, I was as a
grasshopper in my own eyes. I inquired who he was, and was told he was
one of the Duke of Argyle's farmers. I thought to myself, if all the
duke's farmers were of this pattern, that he might be able to speak to
the enemy in the gates to some purpose.

It is a solemn thing, but I am very happy."
They walked, Minnie and Mr. Willetts a little distance in front of the
others. Harkless could not have told, afterward, whether they rode,
or walked, or floated on an air-ship to the court-house.

All he knew distinctly was that a divinity in a pink shirt waist, and a
hat that was woven of gauzy cloud by mocking fairies to make him
stoop hideously to see under it, dwelt for the time on earth and was
at his side, dazzling him in the morning sunshine. Last night the moon
had lent her a silvery glamour; she had something of the ethereal
whiteness of night-dews in that watery light, a nymph to laugh from a
sparkling fountain, at the moon or, as he thought, remembering her
courtesy for his pretty speech, perhaps a little lady of King Louis's
court, wandering down the years from Fontainebleau and appearing to
clumsy mortals sometimes, of a June night when the moon was in their
heads.

But to-day she was of the clearest color, a pretty girl, whose gray eyes
twinkled to his in gay companionship. He marked how the sunshine
was spun into the fair shadows of her hair and seemed itself to
catch a lustre, rather than to impart it, and the light of the June
day drifted through the gauzy hat, touching her face with a delicate
and tender flush that came and went like the vibrating pink of early
dawn. She had the divinest straight nose, tip-tilted the faintest, most
alluring trifle, and a dimple cleft her chin, "the deadliest maelstrom
in the world!" He thrilled through and through. He had been only
vaguely conscious of the dimple in the night.

It was not until he saw her by daylight that he really knew it was
there.

The village hummed with life before them. They walked through shimmering
airs, sweeter to breathe than nectar is to drink. She caught a butterfly,
basking on a jimson weed, and, before she let it go, held it out to him
in her hand. It was a white butterfly. He asked which was the
butterfly.

"Bravo!" she said, tossing the captive craft above their heads and watching
the small sails catch the breeze; "And so you can make little
flatteries in the morning, too. It is another courtesy you should
be having from me, if it weren't for the dustiness of it. Wait till
we come to the board walk."
She had some big, pink roses at her waist. "In the meantime," he answered,
indicating these, "I know very well a lad that would be blithe to
accept a pretty token of any lady's high esteem."
"But you have one, already, a very beautiful one."

She gave him a genial up-and-down glance from head to foot, half
quizzical, but so quick he almost missed it. And then he was glad he
had found the straw hat with the youthful ribbon, and all his other
festal vestures. "And a very becoming flower a white rose is," she
continued, "though I am a bold girl to be blarneying with a young
gentleman I met no longer ago than last night."
"But why shouldn't you blarney with a gentleman, when you began by
saving his life?"

"Or, rather, when the gentleman had the politeness to gallop about the
county with me tucked under his arm?" She stood still and laughed
softly, but consummately, and her eyes closed tight with the mirth of
it. She had taken one of the roses from her waist, and, as she
stood, holding it by the long stem, its petals lightly pressed her
lips.

"You may have it--in exchange," she said. He bent down to her, and she
began to fasten the pink rose in place of the white one on his coat.
She did not ask him, directly or indirectly, who had put the white one
there for him, because she knew by the way it was pinned that he had
done it himself. "Who is it that ev'ry morning brings me these lovely
flow'rs?" she burlesqued, as he bent over her.

"'Mr. Wimby,'" he returned. "I will point him out to you. You must
see him, and, also, Mr. Bodeffer, the oldest inhabitant--and crossest."

"Will you present them to me?"
"No; they might talk to you and take some of my time with you away
from me."

Her eyes sparkled into his for the merest fraction of a second, and she
laughed half mockingly. Then she dropped his lapel and they proceeded.

She did not put the white rose in her belt, but carried it.

The Square was heaving with a jostling, goodnatured, happy, and constantly
increasing crowd that overflowed on Main Street in both directions; and
the good nature of this crowd was augmented in the ratio that its size
increased. The streets were a confusion of many colors, and eager
faces filled every window opening on Main Street or the Square. Since
nine o'clock all those of the courthouse had been occupied, and here
most of the damsels congregated to enjoy the spectacle of the parade,
and their swains attended, gallantly posting themselves at coignes of
less vantage behind the ladies.

Some of the faces that peeped from the dark, old court- house windows
were pretty, and some of them were not pretty; but nearly all of them
were rosy-cheeked, and all were pleasant to see because of the good
cheer they showed. Some of the gallants affected the airy and easy,
entertaining the company with badinage and repartee; some were openly
bashful. Now and then one of the latter, after long deliberation,
constructed a laborious compliment for his inamorata, and, after
advancing and propounding half of it, again retired into himself,
smit with a blissful palsy.

Nearly all of them conversed in tones that might have indicated that
they were separated from each other by an acre lot or two.

Here and there, along the sidewalk below, a father worked his way through
the throng, a licorice-bedaubed cherub on one arm, his coat (borne
with long enough) on the other; followed by a mother with the other
children hanging to her skirts and tagging exasperatingly behind,
holding red and blue toy balloons and delectable batons of
spiral-striped peppermint in tightly closed, sadly sticky fingers.

A thousand cries rent the air; the strolling mountebanks and gypsying
booth-merchants; the peanut vendors; the boys with palm-leaf fans for
sale; the candy sellers; the popcorn peddlers; the Italian with
the toy balloons that float like a cluster of colored bubbles above
the heads of the crowd, and the balloons that wail like a baby; the
red-lemonade man, shouting in the shrill voice that reaches everywhere
and endures forever:
"Lemo!

Lemo! Ice-cole lemo!

Five cents, a nickel, a half-a-dime, the twentiethpotofadollah! Lemo!
Ice-cole lemo!"

--all the vociferating harbingers of the circus crying their wares.
Timid youth, in shoes covered with dust through which the morning
polish but dimly shone, and unalterably hooked by the arm to
blushing maidens, bought recklessly of peanuts, of candy, of popcorn,
of all known sweetmeats, perchance; and forced their way to the
lemonade stands; and there, all shyly, silently sipped the
crimson-stained ambrosia.

Everywhere the hawkers dinned, and everywhere was heard the plaintive
squawk of the toy balloon.

But over all rose the nasal cadence of the Cheap John, reeking oratory
from his big wagon on the corner: "Walk up, walk up, walk up, ladies and
gents! Here we are! Here we are!

Make hay while we gather the moss. Walk up, one and all. Here I put this
solid gold ring, sumptuous and golden, eighteen carats, eighteen
golden carats of the priceless mother of metals, toiled fer on the
wild Pacific slope, eighteen garnteed, I put this golden ring, rich
and golden, in the package with the hangkacheef, the elegant and
blue-ruled note-paper, self-writing pens, pencil and penholder.

Who takes the lot? Who takes it, ladies and gents?"
His tongue curled about his words; he seemed to love them. "Fer a
quat-of- a-dollah! Don't turn away, young man--you feller in the
green necktie, there.

We all see the young lady on your arm is a-langrishing fer the golden
ring and the package. Faint heart never won fair wummin'.

  There you are, sir, and you'll
    never regret it. Go--and be
  happy! Now, who's the next man
    to git solid with his
  girl fer a quat-of-a-dollah?
  Life is a mysterus and unviolable
    shadder, my friends; who kin
  read its orgeries?
  To-day we are here--but to-morrow we
  may be in jail. Only a quat-of-a- dollah!
    We are Seventh-Day Adventists, ladies and gents, a-givin' away our
belongings in the awful face of Michael, fer a quat-of-a-dollah.

The same price fer each-an-devery individual, lady and gent, man,
wummin, wife and child, and happiness to one and all fer a quat-of-a-dollah!"

Down the middle of the street, kept open between the waiting crowd,
ran barefoot boys, many of whom had not slept at home, but had kept vigil
in the night mists for the coming of the show, and, having seen the
muffled pageant arrive, swathed, and with no pomp and panoply, had
returned to town, rioting through jewelled cobwebs in the morning
fields, happy in the pride of knowledge of what went on behind the
scenes.

To-night, or to-morrow, the runaways would face a woodshed reckoning
with outraged ancestry; but now they caracoled in the dust with no
thought of the grim deeds to be done upon them.

In the court-house yard, and so sinning in the very eye of the law, two
swarthy, shifty-looking gentlemen were operating (with some greasy walnut
shells and a pea) what the fanciful or unsophisticated might have been
pleased to call a game of chance; and the most intent spectator of the
group around them was Mr. James Bardlock, the Town Marshal. He was simply
and unofficially and earnestly interested. Thus the eye of Justice may
not be said to have winked upon the nefariousness now under its
vision; it gazed with strong curiosity, an itch to dabble, and (it
must be admitted) a growing hope of profit.

The game was so direct and the player so sure.
Several countrymen had won small sums, and one, a charmingly rustic
stranger, with a peculiar accent (he said that him and his goil
should now have a smoot' old time off his winninks--though the lady
was not manifested), had won twenty-five dollars with no trouble
at all.

The two operators seemed depressed, declaring the luck against them
and the Plattville people too brilliant at the game.

It was wonderful how the young couples worked their way arm-in-arm through
the thickest crowds, never separating.

  Even at the lemonade stands they drank
  holding the glasses in their outer
    hands--such are the sacrifices
  demanded by etiquette. But, observing
  the gracious outpouring of fortune
    upon the rustic with the rare accent, a youth in a green tie
disengaged his arm--for the first time in two hours--from that of
a girl upon whose finger there shone a ring, sumptuous and golden,
and, conducting her to a corner of the yard, bade her remain there
until he returned.

He had to speak to Hartly Bowlder, he explained.

Then he plunged, red-faced and excited, into the circle about the shell
manipulators, and offered, to lay a wager.

"Hol' on there, Hen Fentriss," thickly objected a flushed young man
beside him, "iss my turn."

"I'm first. Hartley," returned the other. "You can hold yer bosses a
minute, I reckon."
"Plenty fer each and all, chents," interrupted one of the shell-men.
"Place yer spondulicks on de little ball. Wich is de next lucky one
to win our money? Chent bets four sixty-five he seen de little ball go
under de middle shell. Up she comes! Dis time _we_ wins; Plattville
can't win _every_ time. Who's de next chent?"
Fentriss edged slowly out of the circle, abashed, and with rapidly
whitening cheeks. He paused for a moment, outside, slowly realizing
that all his money had gone in one wild, blind whirl--the money he had
earned so hard and saved so hard, to make a holiday for his sweetheart
and himself. He stole one glance around the building to where a
patient figure waited for him. Then he fled down a side alley and soon
was out upon the country road, tramping soddenly homeward through
the dust, his chin sunk in his breast and his hands clenched tight
at his sides.

Now and then he stopped and bitterly hurled a stone at a piping bird
on a fence, or gay Bob White in the fields. At noon the patient figure
was still waiting in the corner of the court-house yard, meekly twisting
the golden ring upon her finger.

But the flushed young man who had spoken thickly to her deserter drew
an envied roll of bankbills from his pocket and began to bet with tipsy
caution, while the circle about the gamblers watched with fervid
interest, especially Mr. Bardlock, Town Marshal.

From far up Main Street came the cry "She's a-comin'! She's a-comin'!"
and, this announcement of the parade proving only one of a dozen
false alarms, a thousand discussions took place over old-fashioned
silver timepieces as to when "she" was really due.

Schofields' Henry was much appealed to as an arbiter in these discussions,
from a sense of his having a good deal to do with time in a general
sort of way; and thus Schofields' came to be reminded that it was
getting on toward ten o'clock, whereas, in the excitement of festival,
he had not yet struck nine.

This, rushing forthwith to do, he did; and, in the elation of the
moment, seven or eight besides.

Miss Helen Sherwood was looking down on the mass of shifting color
from a second-story window--whither many an eye was upturned in
wonder--and she had the pleasure of seeing Schofields' emerge on
the steps beneath her, when the bells had done, and heard the cheers
(led by Mr.

Martin) with which the laughing crowd greeted his appearance after the
performance of his feat.

She turned beamingly to Harkless. "What a family it is!" she laughed.

"Just one big, jolly family. I didn't know people could be like
this until I came to Plattville."
"That is the word for it," he answered, resting his hand on the
casement beside her. "I used to think it was desolate, but that was long
ago."

He leaned from the window to look down.

In his dark cheek was a glow Carlow folk had never seen there; and
somehow he seemed less thin and tired; indeed, he did not seem tired
at all, by far the contrary; and he carried himself upright (when
he was not stooping to see under the hat), though not as if he
thought about it.

"I believe they are the best people I know," he went on. "Perhaps
it is because they have been so kind to me; but they are kind to each
other, too; kind, good people----"
"I know," she said, nodding--a flower on the gauzy hat set to vibrating
in a tantalizing way. "I know. There are fat women who rock and rock
on piazzas by the sea, and they speak of country people as the 'lower
classes.'

How happy this big family is in not knowing it is the lower classes!" "We
haven't read Nordau down here," said John.

"Old Tom Martin's favorite work is 'The Descent of Man.' Miss Tibbs admires
Tupper, and 'Beulah,' and some of us possess the works of E. P. Roe--and
why not?"
"Yes; what of it," she returned, "since you escape Nordau? I think the
conversation we hear from the other windows is as amusing and quite as
loud as most of that I hear in Rouen during the winter; and Rouen,
you know, is just like any other big place nowadays, though I suppose
there are Philadelphians, for instance, who would be slow to believe a
statement like that."
"Oh, but they are not all of Philadelphia----" He left the sentence,
smilingly.

"And yet somebody said, 'The further West I travel the more convinced
I am the Wise Men came from the East.'"
"Yes," he answered. "'From' is the important word in that."
"It was a girl from Southeast Cottonbridge, Massachusetts," said
Helen, "who heard I was from Indiana and asked me if I didn't hate
to live so far away from things."

There was a pause, while she leaned out of the window with her face
aside from him. Then she remarked carelessly, "I met her at Winter
Harbor."
"Do you go to Winter Harbor?" he asked.

"We have gone there every summer until this one, for years. Have you friends
who go there?"
"I had--once. There was a classmate of mine from Rouen----"
"What was his name? Perhaps I know him." She stole a glance at him. His
face had fallen into sad lines, and he looked like the man who had
come up the aisle with the Hon.

Kedge Halloway. A few moments before he had seemed another person
entirely.

"He's forgotten me, I dare say. I haven't seen him for seven years; and
that's a long time, you know. Besides, he's 'out in the world,' where
remembering is harder. Here in Plattville we don't forget."
"Were you ever at Winter Harbor?"
"I was--once. I spent a very happy day there long ago, when you must have
been a little girl. Were you there in--"
"Listen!" she cried. "The procession is coming. Look at the crowd!" The
parade had seized a psychological moment.

There was a fanfare of trumpets in the east. Lines of people rushed for
the street, and, as one looked down on the straw hats and sunbonnets
and many kinds of finer head apparel, tossing forward, they seemed like
surf sweeping up the long beaches.

She was coming at last. The boys whooped in the middle of the street;
some tossed their arms to heaven, others expressed their emotion by
somersaults; those most deeply moved walked on their hands.

In the distance one saw, over the heads of the multitude, tossing banners
and the moving crests of triumphal cars, where "cohorts were shining
in purple and gold." She _was_ coming. After all the false alarms and
disappointments, she was coming!

There was another flourish of music. Immediately all the band gave
sound, and then, with blare of brass and the crash of drums, the
glory of the parade burst upon Plattville.

Glory in the utmost! The resistless impetus of the march-time music;
the flare of royal banners, of pennons on the breeze; the smiling of
beautiful Court Ladies and great, silken Nobles; the swaying of howdahs
on camel and elephant, and the awesome shaking of the earth beneath the
elephant's feet, and the gleam of his small but devastating eye (every
one declared he looked the alarmed Mr.

Snoddy full in the face as he passed, and Mr. Snoddy felt not at all
reassured when Tom Martin severely hinted that it was with the threatening
glance of a rival); then the badinage of the clown, creaking along
in his donkey cart; the terrific recklessness of the spangled hero
who was drawn by in a cage with two striped tigers; the spirit of
the prancing steeds that drew the rumbling chariots, and the grace
of the helmeted charioteers; the splendor of the cars and the
magnificence of the paintings with which they were adorned; the
ecstasy of all this glittering, shining, gorgeous pageantry needed
even more than walking on your hands to express.

Last of all came the tooting calliope, followed by swarms of boys as it
executed, "Wait till the clouds roll by, Jennie" with infinite
dash and gusto.

When it was gone, Miss Sherwood's intent gaze relaxed--she had been looking
on as eagerly as any child,--and she turned to speak to Harkless and
discovered that he was no longer in the room; instead, she found
Minnie and Mr. Willetts, whom he had summoned from another window.

"He was called away," explained Lige. "He thought he'd be back before
the parade was over, and said you were enjoying it so much he didn't
want to speak to you."
"Called away?" she said, inquiringly.

Minnie laughed. "Oh, everybody sends for Mr. Harkless."
"It was a farmer, name of Bowlder," added Mr. Willetts. "His son Hartley's
drinking again, and there ain't any one but Harkless can do anything
with him.

You let him tackle a sick man to nurse, or a tipsy one to handle, and
I tell you," Mr. Willetts went on with enthusiasm, "he is at home. It
beats me,--and lots of people don't think college does a man any good!
Why, the way he cured old Fis----"
"See!" cried Minnie, loudly, pointing out of the window. "Look down there.
Something's happened."
There was a swirl in the crowd below. Men were running around a corner
of the court-house, and the women and children were harking after. They
went so fast, and there were so many of them, that immediately that
whole portion of the yard became a pushing, tugging, pulling,
squirming jam of people.

"It's on the other side," said Lige. "We can see from the hall window.
Come quick, before these other folks fill it up."

They followed him across the building, and looked down on an agitated
swarm of faces.

Five men were standing on the entrance steps to the door below, and the
crowd was thickly massed beyond, leaving a little semicircle clear
about the steps. Those behind struggled to get closer, and leaped in
the air to catch a glimpse of what was going on. Harkless stood alone
on the top step, his hand resting on the shoulder of the pale and
contrite and sobered Hartley. In the clear space, Jim Bardlock was
standing with sheepishly hanging head, and between him and Harkless
were the two gamblers of the walnut shells.

The journalist held in his hand the implements of their profession.

"Give it all up," he was saying in his steady voice. "You've taken
eighty- six dollars from this boy. Hand it over."
The men began to edge closer to the crowd, giving little, swift,
desperate, searching looks from left to right, and right to left,
moving nervously about, like weasels in a trap.

"Close up there tight," said Harkless, sharply. "Don't let them
out."
"W'y can't we git no square treatment here?" one of the gamblers whined;
but his eyes, blazing with rage, belied the plaintive passivity
of his tone.

"We been running no skin. Wy d'ye say we gotter give up our own money?
You gotter prove it was a skin. We risked our money fair."
"Prove it! Come up here, Eph Watts. Friends," the editor turned to
the crowd, smiling, "friends, here's a man we ran out of town once,
because he knew too much about things of this sort. He's come back to
us again and he's here to stay. He'll give us an object-lesson on the
shell game."
"It's pretty simple," remarked Mr. Watts. "The best way is to pick up
the ball with your second finger and the back part of your thumb
as you pretend to lay the shell down over it: this way."

He illustrated, and showed several methods of manipulation, with
professional sang-froid; and as he made plain the easy swindle by which
many had been duped that morning, there arose an angry and threatening
murmur.

"You all see," said Harkless, raising his voice a little, "what a
simple cheat it is--and old as Pharaoh.

  Yet a lot of you stood around and
    lost your own money, and
  stared like idiots, and let
    Hartley Bowlder lose
  eighty-odd dollars on a shell
    racket, and not one of you
  lifted a hand.
    How hard did you work for what these two cheap crooks took from you?

Ah!" he cried, "it is because you were greedy that they robbed you
so easily.
You know it's true. It's when you want to get something for nothing
that the 'confidence men' steal the money you sweat for and make the
farmer a laughing stock. And _you_, Jim Bardlock, Town Marshal!--you,
who confess that you 'went in the game sixty cents' worth, yourself--"
His eyes were lit with wrath as he raised his accusing hand and
levelled it at the unhappy municipal.

The Town Marshal smiled uneasily and deprecatingly about him, and,
meeting only angry glances, hearing only words of condemnation, he
passed his hand unsteadily over his fat mustache, shifted from one
leg to the other and back again, looked up, looked down, and then,
an amiable and pleasure- loving man, beholding nothing but accusation
and anger in heaven and earth, and wishing nothing more than to
sink into the waters under the earth, but having no way of reaching
them, finding his troubles quite unbearable, and unable to meet the
manifold eye of man, he sought relief after the unsagacious fashion
of a larger bird than he.

His burly form underwent a series of convulsions not unlike sobs, and he
shut his eyes tightly and held them so, presenting a picture of misery
unequalled in the memory of any spectator. Harkless's outstretched
hand began to shake.
"You!" he tried to continue--"you, a man elected to----"
There came from the crowd the sound of a sad, high-keyed voice,
drawling:
"That's a nice vest Jim's got on, but it ain't hardly the feathers
fitten for an ostrich, is it?"

The editor's gravity gave way; he broke into a ringing laugh and turned
again to the shell-men. "Give up the boy's money. Hurry."
"Step down here and git it," said the one who had spoken.

There was a turbulent motion in the crowd, and a cry arose, "Run
'em out!

Ride 'em on a rail! Tar and feathers! Run 'em out o' town!"
"I wouldn't dilly-dally long if I were you," said Harkless, and
his advice seemed good to the shell-men. A roll of bills, which he counted
and turned over to the elder Bowlder, was sullenly placed in his hand.
The fellow who had not yet spoken clutched the journalist's sleeve with
his dirty hand.

"We hain't done wit' youse," he said, hoarsely. "Don't belief it, not fer
a minute, see?"The chronicler tells us, that when on this occasion the Scots formed
their line of battle, and a venerable abbot passed along, holding up the
cross before them, the whole army fell upon their knees.

"These Scots will not fight," said Edward, who was reconnoitring at a
distance. "See! they are all on their knees now to beg for mercy."

"They kneel," said a lord who stood by, "but it is to God alone; trust
me, those men will win or die."

The bold lyric of Burns is but an inspired kind of version of the real
address which Bruce is said to have made to his followers; and whoever
reads it will see that its power lies not in appeal to brute force, but
to the highest elements of our nature, the love of justice, the sense of
honor, and to disinterestedness, self-sacrifice, courage unto death.

These things will live and form high and imperishable elements of our
nature, when mankind have learned to develop them in other spheres than
that of physical force. Burns's lyric, therefore, has in it an element
which may rouse the heart to noble endurance and devotion, even when the
world shall learn war no more.

We passed through the town of Stirling, whose castle, magnificently
seated on a rocky throne, looks right worthy to have been the seat of
Scotland's court, as it was for many years. It brought to our minds all
the last scenes of the Lady of the Lake, which are laid here with a
minuteness of local description and allusion characteristic of Scott.

According to our guide book, one might find there the visible
counterpart of every thing which he has woven into his beautiful
fiction--"the Lady's Rock, which rang to the applause of the multitude;"
"the Franciscan steeple, which pealed the merry festival;" "the sad and
fatal mound," apostrophized by Douglas,--

  "That oft has heard the death-axe sound
  As on the noblest of the land,
  Fell the stern headsman's bloody hand;"--

the room in the castle, where "a Douglas by his sovereign bled;" and not
far off the ruins of Cambuskenneth Abbey. One could not but think of the
old days Scott has described.

  "The castle gates were open flung,
  The quivering drawbridge rocked and rung,
  And echoed loud the flinty street
  Beneath the coursers' clattering feet,
  As slowly down the steep descent
  Fair Scotland's king and nobles went,
  While all along the crowded way
  Was jubilee and loud huzza."

The place has been long deserted as a palace; but it is one of the four
fortresses, which, by the articles of union between Scotland and
England, are always to be kept in repair.

We passed by the town of Perth, the scene of the "Fair Maid's"
adventures. We had received an invitation to visit it, but for want of
time were obliged to defer it till our return to Scotland.

Somewhere along here Mr. S. was quite excited by our proximity to
Scone, the old crowning-place of the Scottish kings; however, the old
castle is entirely demolished, and superseded by a modern mansion, the
seat of the Earl of Mansfield.

Still farther on, surrounded by dark and solemn woods, stands Glamis
Castle, the scene of the tragedy in Macbeth. We could see but a glimpse
of it from the road, but the very sound of the name was enough to
stimulate our imagination. It is still an inhabited dwelling, though
much to the regret of antiquarians and lovers of the picturesque, the
characteristic outworks and defences of the feudal ages, which
surrounded it, have been levelled, and velvet lawns and gravel walks
carried to the very door. Scott, who passed a night there in 1793, while
it was yet in its pristine condition, comments on the change mournfully,
as undoubtedly a true lover of the past would. Albeit the grass plats
and the gravel walks, to the eye of sense, are undoubtedly much more
agreeable and convenient. Scott says in his Demonology, that he never
came any where near to being overcome with a superstitious feeling,
except twice in his life, and one was on the night when he slept in
Glamis Castle. The poetical and the practical elements in Scott's mind
ran together, side by side, without mixing, as evidently as the waters
of the Alleghany and Monongahela at Pittsburg. Scarcely ever a man had
so much relish for the supernatural, and so little faith in it. One must
confess, however, that the most sceptical might have been overcome at
Glamis Castle, for its appearance, by all accounts, is weird and
strange, and ghostly enough to start the dullest imagination.

On this occasion Scott says, "After a very hospitable reception from the
late Peter Proctor, seneschal of the castle, I was conducted to my
apartment in a distant part of the building. I must own, that when I
heard door after door shut, after my conductor had retired, I began to
consider myself as too far from the living, and somewhat too near the
dead. We had passed through what is called 'the King's Room,' a vaulted
apartment, garnished with stags' antlers and similar trophies of the
chase, and said by tradition to be the spot of Malcolm's murder, and I
had an idea of the vicinity of the castle chapel. In spite of the truth
of history, the whole night scene in Macbeth's castle rushed at once
upon my mind, and struck my imagination more forcibly than even when I
have seen its terrors represented by the late John Kemble and his
inimitable sister. In a word, I experienced sensations which, though not
remarkable either for timidity or superstition, did not fail to affect
me to the point of being disagreeable, while they were mingled at the
same time with a strange and indescribable kind of pleasure."

Externally, the building is quaint and singular enough; tall and gaunt,
crested with innumerable little pepper box turrets and conical towers,
like an old French chateau.

Besides the tragedy of Macbeth, another story of still more melancholy
interest is connected with it, which a pen like that of Hawthorne, might
work up with gloomy power.

In 1537 the young and beautiful Lady Glamis of this place was actually
tried and executed for witchcraft. Only think, now! what capabilities in
this old castle, with its gloomy pine shades, quaint architecture, and
weird associations, with this bit of historic verity to start upon.

Walter Scott says, there is in the castle a secret chamber; the entrance
to which, by the law of the family, can be known only to three persons
at once--the lord of the castle, his heir apparent, and any third
person whom they might choose to take into their confidence. "THE SHEPHERD
OF BANBURY'S WEATHER-RULES."
_The Shepherd of Banbury's Rules to judge of the Changes of the
Weather_, first printed in 1670, was long a favourite book with the
country gentleman, the farmer, and the peasant. They were accustomed
to regard it with the consideration and confidence which were due to
the authority of so experienced a master of the art of prognostication,
and dismissing every sceptical thought, received his maxims with the
same implicit faith as led them to believe that if their cat chanced
to wash her face, rainy weather would be the certain and inevitable
result.
Moreover, this valuable little manual instructed them how to
keep their horses, sheep, and oxen sound, and prescribed cures for them
when distempered. No wonder, then, if it has passed through many editions.

Yet it has been invariably stated that _The Banbury Shepherd_ in fact
had no existence; was purely an imaginary creation; and that the
work which passes under his name, "John Claridge," was written by
Dr.

John Campbell, the Scottish historian, who died in 1775. The statements
made in connexion with this book are curious enough; and it is with a
view of placing the matter in a clear and correct light that I now
trouble you with a Note, which will, I hope, tend to restore to this
poor weather-wise old shepherd his long-lost rank and station among
the rural authors of England.

I believe that the source of the error is to be traced to the second
edition of the _Biographia Britannica_, in a memoir of Dr.
Campbell by Kippis, in which, when enumerating the works of the
learned Doctor, Kippis says, "He was also the author of _The Shepherd
of Banbury's Rules_,--a favourite pamphlet with the common people."

We next find the book down to Campbell as the "author" in Watt's
_Bibliotheca Britannica_, which is copied both by Chalmers and Lowndes.
And so the error has been perpetuated, even up to the time of the
publication of a meritorious _History of Banbury_, by the late Mr.

Alfred Beesley, in 1841. This writer thus speaks of the work:

"The far-famed shepherd of Banbury is only an apocryphal personage. In
1744 there was published {374} _The Shepherd of Banbury's Rules to judge
of the Changes of the Weather, grounded on forty Years' Experience.

To which is added, a rational Account of the Causes of such Alterations,
the Nature of Wind, Rain, Snow, &c., on the Principles of the Newtonian
Philosophy.
By John Claridge. London: printed for W. Bickerton, in the Temple Exchange,
Fleet Street. Price 1s._ The work attracted a large share of public
attention, and deserved it. A second edition appeared in 1748.... It
is stated in Kippis's _Biographia Britannica_ that, the real author
was Dr. John Campbell, a Scotchman."
In 1770 there appeared _An Essay on the Weather, with Remarks on "The
Shepherd of Banbury's Rules, &c."_: by John Mills, Esq., F.R.S.
Mr.

Mills observes:

"Who the shepherd of Banbury was, we know not; nor indeed have we any
proof that the rules called his were penned by a real shepherd. Both
these points are, however, immaterial; their truth is their best voucher....
Mr. Claridge published them in the year 1744, since which time they
are become very scarce, having long been out of print."
Now all these blundering attempts at annihilating the poor
shepherd may, I think, be accounted for by neither of the
above-mentioned writers having a knowledge of the original edition,
published in 1670, of the real shepherd's book (the title of which
I will presently give), which any one may see in the British Museum
library.

It has on the title-page a slight disfigurement of name, viz. John
_Clearidge_; but it is _Claridge_ in the Preface. The truth is,
that Dr. John Campbell _re-published_ the book in 1744, but without
affixing his own name, or giving any information of its author or of
previous editions. The part, however, which he bore in this edition
is explained by the latter portion of the title already given; and still
more clearly in the Preface. We find authorities added, to give weight
to the shepherd's remarks; and likewise additional rules in relation
to the weather, derived from the common sayings and proverbs of the
country people, and from old English books of husbandry.

It may, in short, be called a clever scientific commentary on the
shepherd's observations. After what has been stated, your readers will
not be surprised to learn that one edition of the work appears in
Watt's very inaccurate book under CLARIDGE, another under CLEARIDGE,
and a third under CAMPBELL.

I will now speak of the original work: it is a small octavo volume of
thirty-two pages, rudely printed, with an amusing Preface "To the
Reader," in which the shepherd dwells with much satisfaction on his
peculiar vaticinating talents.

As this Preface has been omitted in all subsequent editions, and as the
book itself is extremely scarce, I conceive that a reprint of it in your
pages may be acceptable to your Folk-lore readers. The "Rules"
are interlarded with scraps of poetry, somewhat after the manner
of old Tusser, and bear the unmistakeable impress of a "plain,
unlettered Muse."

The author concludes his work with a poetical address "to the antiquity
and honour of shepheards." The title is rather a droll one, and is as
follows:

"The Shepheard's Legacy: or John Clearidge his forty Years' Experience of
the Weather: being an excellent Treatise, wherein is shewed the
Knowledge of the Weather.

First, by the Rising and Setting of the Sun. 2. How the Weather is known
by the Moon. 3.
By the Stars. 4. By the Clouds. 5. By the Mists. 6. By the Rainbow. 7.
And especially by the Winds. Whereby the Weather may be exactly known
from Time to Time: which Observation was never heretofore published
by any Author. 8.

Also, how to keep your Sheep sound when they be sound. 9. And how to
cure them if they be rotten. 10. Is shewed the Antiquity and Honour of
Shepheards.
With some certain and assured Cures for thy Horse, Cow, and Sheep.

An Almanack is out at twelve months day, My Legacy it doth endure for
aye.
But take you notice, though 'tis but a hint, It far excels some books
of greater print.

London: printed and are to be sold by John Hancock, Junior, at the
Three Bibles in Popes-head Ally, next Cornhill, 1670."
In the Preface he tells us that--
"Having been importun'd by sundry friends (some of them being worthy
persons) to make publique for their further benefit what they have found
by experience to be useful for themselves and others, I could not deny
their requests; but was willing to satisfie them, as also my own
self, to do others good as well as myself; lest I should hide my
talent in a napkin, and my skill be rak'd up with me in the dust.

  Therefore I have left it to posterity,
    that they may have the fruit when
  the old tree is dead and rotten. And
    because I would not be tedious, I shall descend to some few
particular instances of my skill and foreknowledge of the weather,
and I shall have done.

  "First, in the year 1665, at the
    1st of January, I told several
  credible persons that the then frost
    would hold till March, that men could not plow, and so it came to
pass directly

  .
    
  "2. I also told them that present
    March, that it would be a very dry summer, which likewise came to
pass

  .
    
  "3. The same year, in November, I told
    them it would be a very open winter, which also came to pass,
although at that time it was a great snow: but it lasted not a week

  .
    
  "4. In the year 1666, I told them
    that year in March, that it would be a very dry spring; which also
came to pass

.

"5. In the year 1667, certaine shepheards ask'd my councel
whether they might venture their sheep any more in the Low-fields? I
told them they might safely venture them till August next; and
they sped very well, without any loss

.

"6.

I told them, in the beginning of September the same year, that it would
be a south-west wind for two or {375} three months together, and also
great store of rain, so that wheat sowing would be very difficult
in the Low-fields, by reason of wet; which we have found by sad
experience.

And further, I told them that they should have not above three or four
perfect fair days together till the shortest day.

"7. In the year 1668, in March, although it was a very dry season
then, I told my neighbours that it would be an extraordinary
fruitful summer for hay and grass, and I knew it by reason there
was so much rain in the latter end of February and beginning of
March: for by that I ever judge of the summers, and I look that the
winter will be dry and frosty for the most part, by reason that
this November was mild: for by that I do ever judge of the winters.

"Now, I refer you unto the book itself, which will sufficiently inform
you of sundry other of my observations. For in the ensuing discourse I
have set you down the same rules which I go by myself. And if any one
shall question the truth of what is here set down, let them come to me,
and I will give them further satisfaction.

JOHN CLARIDGE, SEN.

"Hanwell, near Banbury."
It appears, from inquiries made in the neighbourhood, that the
name of Claridge is still common at Hanwell, a small village near
Banbury--that "land o'cakes,"--and that last century there was a
John Claridge, a small farmer, resident there, who died in 1758,
and who might have been a grandson of the "far-famed," but unjustly
defamed, "shepherd of Banbury."

_Apropos_ of the "cakes" for which this flourishing town has long been
celebrated, I beg to inform your correspondent ERICA (Vol. vii., p.
106.) and J.

R. M., M.A. (p. 310.) that there is a receipt "how to make a very good
Banbury cake," printed as early as 1615, in Gervase Markham's _English
Hus-wife_.

W. B. RYE.

* * * * *

NOTES ON SEVERAL MISUNDERSTOOD WORDS.

(_Continued from_ p. 353.)
_To miss_, to dispense with. This usage of the verb being of such ordinary
occurrence, I should have deemed it superfluous to illustrate,
were it not that the editors of Shakspeare, according to custom,
are at a loss for examples:

"We cannot _miss_ him."

_The Tempest_, Act I. Sc. 2. (where see Mr. Collier's note, and also Mr.
Halliwell's, Tallis's edition).

"All which things being much admirable, yet this is most, that they are
so profitable; bringing vnto man both honey and wax, each so wholesome
that we all desire it, both so necessary that we cannot _misse_
them."

--_Euphues and his England._
"I will have honest valiant souls about me; I cannot _miss_ thee."
Beaumont and Fletcher, _The Mad Lover_, Act II. Sc. 1.

"The blackness of this season cannot _miss_ me."

The second _Maiden's Tragedy_, Act V. Sc. 1.

"All three are to be had, we cannot _miss_ any of them."--Bishop Andrewes,
"A Sermon prepared to be preached on Whit Sunday, A.D.
1622," _Library of Ang.-Cath. Theology_, vol. iii. p. 383.

"For these, for every day's dangers we cannot _miss_ the hand."--"A
Sermon preached before the King's Majesty at Burleigh, near Oldham,
A.D. 1614," _Id._, vol. iv. p. 86.

"We cannot _miss_ one of them; they be necessary all."--_Id._, vol.
i. p. 73.

It is hardly necessary to occupy further room with more instances of so
familiar a phrase, though perhaps it may not be out of the way to remark,
that _miss_ is used by Andrewes as a substantive in the same sense as
the verb, namely, in vol. v. p. 176.: the more usual form being _misture_,
or, earlier, _mister_. Mr.

Halliwell, in his _Dictionary_, most unaccountably treats these two forms
as distinct words; and yet, more unaccountably, collecting the import
of _misture_ for the context, gives it the signification of misfortune!!
He quotes Nash's _Pierce Pennilesse_; the reader will find the passage
at p. 47. of the Shakspeare Society's reprint. I subjoin another instance
from vol. viii.
p. 288. of Cattley's edition of Foxe's _Acts and Monuments_:

"Therefore all men evidently declared at that time, both how sore they
took his death to heart; and also how hardly they could away with the
_misture_ of such a man."
In Latin, _desidero_ and _desiderium_ best convey the import of this
word.

_To buckle_, bend or bow. Here again, to their great discredit be
it spoken, the editors of Shakspeare (Second Part of _Hen. IV._, Act I.
Sc.
1.) are at fault for an example. Mr. Halliwell gives one in his _Dictionary_
of the passive participle, which see. In Shakspeare it occurs as a neuter
verb:

"... And teach this body, To bend, and these my aged knees to _buckle_,
In adoration and just worship to you." Ben Jonson, _Staple of News_,
Act II. Sc. 1.

"For, certainly, like as great stature in a natural body is some
advantage in youth, but is but burden in age: so it is with great
territory, which, when a state beginneth to decline, doth make it
stoop and _buckle_ so much the faster."--Lord Bacon, "Of the True
Greatness of Great Britain," vol. i. p. 504.

(Bohn's edition of the _Works_).

And again, as a transitive verb:

"Sear trees, standing or felled, belong to the lessee, and you have a
special replication in the book of 44 E. III., that the wind did but
rend them and _buckle_ them."

--_Case of Impeachment of Waste_, vol. i. p. 620.

_On the hip_, at advantage. A term of wrestling. So said Dr. Johnson at
first; but, on second {376} thoughts, referred it to _venery_, with
which Mr. Dyce consents: both erroneously. Several instances are adduced
by the latter, in his _Critique of Knight and Collier's Shakspeare_; any
one of which, besides the passage in _The Merchant of Venice_,
should have confuted that origin of the phrase.

The hip of a chase is no term of woodman's craft: the haunch is. Moreover,
what a marvellous expression, to say, A hound has a chase _on_ the
hip, instead of _by_.
Still more prodigious to say, that a hound _gets_ a chase _on_ the hip.
One would be loth to impute to the only judicious dramatic commentator of
the day, a love of contradiction as the motive for quarrelling with
Mr. Collier's note on this idiom.

To the examples alleged by Mr. Dyce, the three following may be added;
whereof the last, after the opinion of Sir John Harington, rightly refers
the origin of the metaphor to wrestling:

"The Divell hath them _on the hip_, he may easily bring them to
anything."--_Michael and the Dragon_, by D.

Dike, p. 328.
(_Workes_, London, 1635).

"If he have us at the advantage, _on the hip_ as we say, it is no
great matter then to get service at our hands."--Andrewes, "A Sermon
preached before the King's Majesty at Whitehall, 1617," _Library of
Ang.-Cath. Theology_, vol. iv. p. 365.

  "Full oft the valiant knight his hold doth shift,
    And with much prettie sleight, the same doth slippe; In fine he
  doth applie one speciall drift, Which was to get
    the Pagan on the _hippe_:
  And hauing caught him right, he doth him lift, By
    nimble sleight, and in such wise doth trippe:
  That downe he threw him, and his fall was
    such, His head-piece was the first that ground did tuch."

Sir John Harington's Translation of _Orlando Furioso_, Booke xlvi. Stanza
117.

  
  In some editions, the fourth line is printed
  "_namely_ to get," &c., with other variations in the spelling of
the rest of the stanza.

W. R. ARROWSMITH.

(_To be continued._) 
* * * * * 

LORD COKE.

Turning over some old books recently, my attention was strongly
drawn to the following:

"The Lord Coke, his Speech and Charge, with a Discouerie of the Abuses
and Corruptions of Officers. 8vo. Lond. N. Butter, 1607."
This curious piece appears to have been published by one R. P.[1], who
describes himself, in his dedication to the Earl of Exeter, as a
"poore, dispised, pouertie-stricken, hated, scorned, and vnrespected
souldier," of which there were, doubtless, many in the reign of
James the Pacific.

Lord Coke, in his address to the jury at the Norwich Assizes, gives an
account of the various plottings of the Papists, from the Reformation
to the Gunpowder Treason, to bring the land again under subjection to
Rome, and characterises the schemes and the actors therein as he
goes along in the good round terms of an out-and-out Protestant.

He has also a fling at the Puritans, and all such as would disturb the
church and hierarchy as by law established. But the most remarkable part
of the book is that which comes under the head of "A Discouerie of
the Abuses and Corruption of Officers;" and believing an abstract might
interest your readers, and furnish the antiquary with a reference, I
herewith present you with a list of the officials and others whom my
Lord Coke recommends the _Jurie_ to present, assuring them, at the same
time, that "by God's grace they, the offenders, shall not goe unpunished
for their abuses; for we have," says he, "a COYFE, which signifies a
_scull_, whereby, in the execution of justice, wee are defended against
all oppositions, bee they never so violent."
1.

The first gentleman introduced by Lord Coke to the Norwich jury is the
_Escheator_, who had power to demand upon what tenure a poor yeoman
held his lands, and is an officer in great disfavour with the judge.
He gives some curious instances of his imposition, and concludes by
remarking that, for his rogueries, he were better described by striking
away the first syllable of his name, the rest truly representing him a
_cheator_.

2. _The Clarke of the Market_ comes in for his share of Lord
Coke's denouncements. "It was once," he says, "my hap to take a
clarke of the market in his trickes; but I aduanst him higher than
his father's sonne, by so much as from the ground to the toppe of
the pillorie" for his bribery.

3.

"A certaine ruffling officer" called a _Purveyor_, who is occasionally
found _purveying money_ out of your purses, and is therefore, says
Lord Coke, "on the highway to the gallowes." 
4.

As the next officer is unknown in the present day, I give his
character _in extenso_:
"There is also a Salt-peter-man, whose commission is not to break
vp any man's house or ground without leaue.

And not to deale with any house, but such as is vnused for any necessarie
imployment by the owner. And not to digge in any place without leauing
it smooth and leuell: in such case as he found it. This Salt-peter-man
vnder shew of his authoritie, though being no more than is specified,
will make plaine and simple people beleeue, that hee will without
their leaue breake vp the floore of their dwelling house, vnlesse
they will compound with him to the contrary.

  Any such fellow, if you can meete with
      all, let his misdemenor be presented, that he may be taught better
to vnderstand his office: For by their abuse the country is oftentimes
troubled." 
5.

     There is another troublesome fellow called a _Concealor_, who could
easily be proved no better {377} than a _cosioner_, and whose
pretensions are to be resisted.

6.

     A _Promoter_, generally both a beggar and a knave. This is the modern
     informer, "a necessarie office," says Lord Coke, "but rarely filled
     by an honest man."

     7. The _Monopolitane_ or _Monopolist_; with these the country was
     overrun in James' reign. "To annoy and hinder the public weale, these
     for their own benefit have sold their lands, and then come to
beggarie by a _starch_, _vinegar_, or _aqua vitæ_ monopoly, and
justly too," adds his lordship.

8.

     Lord Coke has no objection to those _golden fooles_, the _Alcumists_,
     so long as they keep to their _metaphisicall_ and _Paracelsian_
     studies; but _science is felony committed by any comixture to
     multiply either gold or silver_; the alchymist is therefore a
     suspected character, and to be looked after by the jury.
     
     9.

     Vagrants to be resolutely put down, the Statute against whom had
     worked well.
     
     10. The stage-players find no favour with this stern judge,
     who tells the jury that as they, the players, cannot perform without
leave, it is easy to be rid of them, remarking, _that the country
is much troubled by them_.

11.

     Taverns, Inns, Ale-houses, Bowling Allies, and such like thriftless
     places of resort for tradesmen and artificers, to be under
     strict surveillance.

     
     12. Gallants, or riotous young gents, to be sharply looked
     after, and their proceedings controlled.
     
     13. Gentlemen with greyhounds and birding-pieces, who would elude the
     _statutes against gunnes_, to be called to account "for the
     shallow-brain'd idlenesse of their ridiculous foolery."
     14. The statute against _ryotous expence in apparel_ to be put
     in force against _unthriftie infractors_.

     There is room here for a few Queries, but I content myself with asking
     for a further reference to No. 4., "The Salt-peter-man."
     J. O.
     
     [Footnote 1: No doubt the author of an ultra-Protestant poem,
entitled _Times Anatomie, made by Robert Prickett, a Souldier_.

     Imprinted, 1606.]
     * * * * *
     
     SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.
     
     _Dogberry's Losses or Leases._--_Much Ado about Nothing_, Act IV.
     Sc.

     4.:
     
     "_Dogberry._ A rich fellow enough, go to: and a fellow that hath
     had losses; and one that hath two gowns, and everything handsome
about him."

     I can quite sympathise with the indignation of some of my cotemporaries
     at the alteration by MR. PAYNE COLLIER'S mysterious corrector, of
     "losses" into "leases."

     I am sorry to see a reading which we had cherished without any
     misgiving as a bit of Shaksperian quaintness, and consecrated by
the humour of Gray and Charles Lamb, turned into a clumsy misprint.

     But we must look at real probabilities, not at fancies and
     predilections. I am afraid "leases" is the likelier word.

     It has also a special fitness, which has not been hitherto
     remarked. Many of the wealthy people of Elizabeth's reign, particularly
     in the middle class, were "fellows that had had leases."

       It will be recollected that extravagant leases or fines were among
the methods by which the possessions of the church were so grievously
dilapidated in the age of the Reformation.

     Those who had a little money to invest, could not do so on more
     advantageous terms than by obtaining such leases as the necessity
or avarice of clerical and other corporations induced them to grant;
and the coincident fall in the value of money increased the gain
of the lessees, and loss of the corporations, to an extraordinary
amount.

     Throughout Elizabeth's reign parliament was at work in restraining
this abuse, by the well-known "disabling acts," restricting the
power of bishops and corporations to lease their property. The last
was passed, I think, only in 1601. And therefore a "rich fellow"
of Dogberry's class was described, to the thorough comprehension
and enjoyment of an audience of that day, as one who "had _had_
leases." 
SCRUTATOR.
May I be allowed a little space in the pages of "N. & Q." to draw
MR.
COLLIER'S attention to some passages in which the old corrector
appears to me to have corrupted, rather than improved, the text?
Possibly on second thoughts MR.Tell him to store
     out fats nae true.

     "God bless you, and set you safe hame, is the prayer of the old
     Scotch Bachelor."

I think you will agree with me, that the old testifying spirit does not
seem to have died out in Scotland, and that the backslidings and
abominations of the land do not want for able exponents.

As the indictment runs back to the time of Charles II., to the
persecutions of the Quakers in the days of Barclay of Ury, and brings up
again the most modern offences, one cannot but feel that there are the
most savory indications in it of Scotch thoroughness.

Some of the questions which he wishes to have me "_speer_" at Aberdeen,
I fear, alas! would bring but an indifferent answer even in Boston,
which gives a high school only to boys, and allows none to girls. On one
point, it seems to me, my friend might speer himself to advantage, and
that is the very commendable efforts which are being made now in
Edinburgh and Aberdeen both, in the way of educating the children of the
poor.

As this is one of the subjects which are particularly on my mind, and as
all information which we can get upon this subject is peculiarly
valuable to us in view of commencing efforts in America, I will abridge
for you an account of the industrial schools of Aberdeen, published by
the society for improving the condition of the laboring classes, in
their paper called the Laborer's Friend.

In June, 1841, it was ascertained that in Aberdeen there were two
hundred and eighty children, under fourteen years of age, who maintained
themselves professedly by begging, but partly by theft. The first effort
to better the moral condition of these children brought with it the
discovery which our philanthropists made in New York, that in order to
do good to a starving child, we must begin by feeding him; that we must
gain his confidence by showing him a benevolence which he can
understand, and thus proceed gradually to the reformation of his
spiritual nature.

In 1841, therefore, some benevolent individuals in Aberdeen hired rooms
and a teacher, and gave out notice among these poor children that they
could there be supplied with food, work, and instruction. The general
arrangement of the day was four hours of lessons, five hours of work,
and three substantial meals. These meals were employed as the incitement
to the lessons and the work, since it was made an indispensable
condition to each meal that the child should have been present at the
work or lessons which preceded it. This arrangement worked admirably; so
that they reported that the attendance was more regular than at ordinary
schools.

The whole produce of the work of the children goes towards defraying the
expense of the establishment, thus effecting several important
purposes,--reducing the expense of the school, and teaching the
children, practically, the value of their industry,--in procuring for
them food and instruction, and fostering in them, from the first, a
sound principle of self-dependence; inasmuch as they know, from the
moment of their entering school, that they give, or pay, in return for
their food and education, all the work they are capable of performing.

The institution did not profess to clothe the children; but by the
kindness of benevolent persons who take an interest in the school, there
is generally a stock of old clothes on hand, from which the most
destitute are supplied.

The following is the daily routine of the school: The scholars assemble
every morning at seven in summer, and eight in winter. The school is
opened by reading the Scriptures, praise, and prayer, and religious
instruction suited to their years; after which there is a lesson in
geography, or the more ordinary facts of natural history, taught by
means of maps and prints distributed along the walls of the school room;
two days in the week they have a singing lesson; at nine they breakfast
on porridge and milk, and have half an hour of play; at ten they again
assemble in school, and are employed at work till two. At two o'clock
they dine; usually on broth, with coarse wheaten bread, but occasionally
on potatoes and ox-head soup, &c. The diet is very plain, but nutritious
and abundant, and appears to suit the tastes of the pupils completely.
Before they started, the judge, standing on the horse-block in front
of the gate, leaned over and patted Miss Sherwood's hand again. Harkless
gathered up the reins.

"You'll make a great Hoosier, all right," said the old man, beaming
upon the girl.

"You needn't worry about that, I guess, my dear."
When he said "my dear," Harkless spoke to the horses.

"Wait," said the judge, still holding the girl's hand. "You'll make
a great Hoosier, some day; don't fret. You're already a very beautiful
one."

Then he bent his white head and kissed her, gallantly. John
said: "Good afternoon, judge"; the whip cracked like a pistol-shot, and
the buckboard dashed off in a cloud of dust.

"Every once in a while, Harkless," the old fellow called after them,
"you must remember to look at the team."
The enormous white tent was filled with a hazy yellow light, the warm,
dusty, mellow light that thrills the rejoicing heart because it
is found nowhere in the world except in the tents of a circus--the
canvas-filtered sunshine and sawdust atmosphere of show day.

Through the entrance the crowd poured steadily, coming from the absorptions
of the wild-animal tent to feast upon greater wonders; passing
around the sawdust ellipse that contained two soul-cloying rings,
to find seats whence they might behold the splendors so soon to be
unfolded.

Every one who was not buying the eternal lemonade was eating something;
and the faces of children shone with gourmand rapture; indeed,
very often the eyes of them were all you saw, half-closed in
palate-gloating over a huge apple, or a bulky oblong of popcorn,
partly unwrapped from its blue tissue-paper cover; or else it might
be a luscious pink crescent of watermelon, that left its ravisher
stained and dripping to the brow.

Here, as in the morning, the hawkers raised their cries in
unintermittent shrillness, offering to the musically inclined the
Happy Evenings Song- book, alleged to contain those treasures, all the
latest songs of the day, or presented for the consideration of the
humorous the Lawrence Lapearl Joke-book, setting forth in full
the art of comical entertainment and repartee.

(Schofields' Henry bought two of these--no doubt on the principle that two
were twice as instructive as one--intending to bury himself in study
and do battle with Tom Martin on his own ground.)
Here swayed the myriad palm-leaf fans; here paraded blushing youth and
rosy maiden, more relentlessly arm-in-arm than ever; here crept the
octogenarian, Mr. Bodeffer, shaking on cane and the shoulder of
posterity; here waddled Mr. Snoddy, who had hurried through the animal
tent for fear of meeting the elephant; here marched sturdy yeomen
and stout wives; here came William Todd and his Anna Belle, the
good William hushed with the embarrassments of love, but looking
out warily with the white of his eye for Mr.

Martin, and determined not to sit within a hundred yards of him;
here rolled in the orbit of habit the bacchanal, Mr. Wilkerson, who
politely answered in kind all the uncouth roarings and guttural
ejaculations of jungle and fen that came from the animal tent; in
brief, here came with lightest hearts the population of Carlow and
part of Amo.

Helen had found a true word: it was a big family. Jim Bardlock, broadly
smiling and rejuvenated, shorn of depression, paused in front of the
"reserve" seats, with Mrs. Bardlock on his arm, and called loudly to a
gentleman on a tier about the level of Jim's head: "How are ye? I
reckon we were a _little_ too smart fer 'em, this morning, huh?"

Five or six hundred people--every one within hearing--fumed to look at
Jim; but the gentleman addressed was engaged in conversation with a lady
and did not notice.

"Hi! Hi, there! _Say_! Mr. Harkless!" bellowed Jim, informally. The
people turned to look at Harkless. His attention was arrested and his
cheek grew red.

"_What is it_?" he asked, a little confused and a good deal annoyed.

"I don't hear what ye say," shouted Jim, putting his hand to his ear.

"_What is it_?" repeated the young man. "I'll kill that fellow
to-night," he added to Lige Willetts. "Some one ought to have done it
long ago."
"What?"
"I _say_, WHAT IS IT?"
"I only wanted to say me and you certainly did fool these here
Hoosiers this morning, huh?

Hustled them two fellers through the court-house, and nobody never
thought to slip round to the other door and head us off. Ha, ha! We were
jest a _leetle_ too many fer 'em, huh?"
From an upper tier of seats the rusty length of Mr.

Martin erected itself joint by joint, like an extension ladder, and he
peered down over the gaping faces at the Town Marshal. "Excuse me," he
said sadly to those behind him, but his dry voice penetrated everywhere,
"I got up to hear Jim say 'We' again."

Mr. Bardlock joined in the laugh against himself, and proceeded with his
wife to some seats, forty or fifty feet distant. When he had settled
himself comfortably, he shouted over cheerfully to the unhappy editor:

"Them shell-men got it in fer you, Mr. Harkless."
"Ain't that fool shet up _yit_?" snarled the aged Mr. Bodeffer, indignantly.
He was sitting near the young couple, and the expression of his sympathy
was distinctly audible to them and many others.

"Got no more regards than a brazing calf-disturbin' a feller with his
sweetheart!"
"The both of 'em says they're goin' to do fer you," bleated Mr.
Bardlock.
"Swear they'll git their evens with ye."
Mr. Martin rose again. "Don't git scared and leave town, Mr.
Harkless," he called out; "Jim'll protect you."
Vastly to the young man's relief the band began to play, and the
equestrians and equestriennes capered out from the dressing-tent
for the "Grand Entrance," and the performance commenced. Through the
long summer afternoon it went on: wonders of horsemanship and horsewomanship;
hair- raising exploits on wires, tight and slack; giddy tricks on
the high trapeze; feats of leaping and tumbling in the rings; while the
tireless musicians blatted inspiringly through it all, only pausing long
enough to allow that uproarious jester, the clown, to ask the
ring-master what he would do if a young lady came up and kissed him
on the street, and to exploit his hilarities during the short
intervals of rest for the athletes.

When it was over, John and Helen found themselves in the midst of a
densely packed crowd, and separated from Miss Briscoe and Lige. People
were pushing and shoving, and he saw her face grow pale. He realized with
a pang of sympathy how helpless he would feel if he were as small as
she, and at his utmost height could only see big, suffocating backs and
huge shoulders pressing down from above. He was keeping them from crowding
heavily upon her with all his strength, and a royal feeling of
protectiveness came over him.

She was so little. And yet, without the remotest hint of hardness, she
gave him such a distinct impression of poise and equilibrium, she
seemed so able to meet anything that might come, to understand it--even
to laugh at it--so Americanly capable and sure of the event, that in
spite of her pale cheek he could not feel quite so protective as he wished
to feel.

He managed to get her to one of the tent-poles, and placed her with her
back to it. Then he set one of his own hands against it over her head,
braced himself and stood, keeping a little space about her,
ruggedly letting the crowd surge against him as it would; no one
should touch her in rough carelessness.

"Thank you. It was rather trying in there," she said, and looked up into
his eyes with a divine gratitude.

"Please don't do that," he answered in a low voice.

"Do what?"
"Look like that."
She not only looked like that, but more so. "Young man, young man," she
said, "I fear you're wishful of turning a girl's head."

The throng was thick around them, garrulous and noisy, but they two
were more richly alone together, to his appreciation, than if they
stood on some far satellite of Mars. He was not to forget that moment,
and he kept the picture of her, as she leaned against the big blue
tent-pole, there, in his heart: the clear gray eyes lifted to his,
the delicate face with the color stealing back to her cheeks, and the
brave little figure that had run so straight to him out of the night
shadows. There was something about her, and in the moment, that suddenly
touched him with a saddening sweetness too keen to be borne; the
forget-me-not finger of the flying hour that could not come again
was laid on his soul, and he felt the tears start from his heart
on their journey to his eyes.

He knew that he should always remember that moment. She knew it, too. She
put her hand to her cheek and turned away from him a little tremulously.
Both were silent.

They had been together since early morning. Plattville was proud
of him.

Many a friendly glance from the folk who jostled about them favored
his suit and wished both of them well, and many lips, opening to speak
to Harkless in passing, closed when their owners (more tactful than
Mr.
Bardlock) looked a second time.

Old Tom Martin, still perched alone On his high seat, saw them standing
by the tent-pole, and watched them from under his rusty hat brim. "I
reckon it's be'n three or four thousand years since I was young," he
sighed to himself; then, pushing his hat still further down over his
eyes: "I don't believe I'd ort to rightly look on at that." He sighed
again as he rose, and gently spoke the name of his dead wife:
"Marjie,--it's be'n lonesome, sometimes.

I reckon you're mighty tired waitin' for me, ever since sixty- four--yet
maybe not; Ulysses S. Grant's over on your side now, and perhaps
you've got acquainted with him; you always thought a good deal more of
him than you did of me."
"Do you see that tall old man up there?"

said Helen, nodding her head toward Martin. "I think I should like to
know him. I'm sure I like him."
"That is old Tom Martin."
"I know."
"I was sorry and ashamed about all that conspicuousness and shouting. It
must have been very unpleasant for you; it must have been so, for a
stranger.

Please try to forgive me for letting you in for it."
"But I liked it.

It was 'all in the family,' and it was so jolly and good- natured, and
that dear old man was so bright. Do you know," she said softly, "I don't
think I'm such a stranger--I--I think I love all these people a great
deal--in spite of having known them only two days."

At that a wild exhilaration possessed him. He wanted to shake hands with
everybody in the tent, to tell them all that he loved them with
his whole heart, but, what was vastly more important, _she_ loved them
a great deal --in spite of having known them only two days!

He made the horses prance on the homeward drive, and once, when she told
him that she had read a good many of his political columns in the "Herald,"
he ran them into a fence.

After this it occurred to him that they were nearing their destination
and had come at a perversely sharp gait; so he held the roans down to a
snail's pace (if it be true that a snail's natural gait is not a
trot) for the rest of the way, while they talked of Tom Meredith
and books and music, and discovered that they differed widely about
Ibsen.

They found Mr. Fisbee in the yard, talking to Judge Briscoe. As they
drove up, and before the horses had quite stopped, Helen leaped to
the ground and ran to the old scholar with both her hands outstretched
to him. He looked timidly at her, and took the hands she gave him;
then he produced from his pocket a yellow telegraph envelope, watching
her anxiously as she received it.

However, she seemed to attach no particular importance to it, and,
instead of opening it, leaned toward him, still holding one of his
hands.

"These awful old men!" Harkless groaned inwardly as he handed the
horses over to the judge.

"I dare say _he_'ll kiss her, too." But, when the editor and Mr. Willetts
had gone, it was Helen who kissed Fisbee.

"They're coming out to spend the evening, aren't they?" asked Briscoe,
nodding to the young men as they set off down the road.

"Lige has to come whether he wants to or not," Minnie laughed, rather
consciously; "It's his turn to-night to look after Mr. Harkless."

"I guess he won't mind coming," said the judge.

"Well," returned his daughter, glancing at Helen, who stood apart, reading
the telegram to Fisbee, "I know if he follows Mr. Harkless he'll get
here pretty soon after supper--as soon as the moon comes up, anyway."

The editor of the "Herald" was late to his supper that evening.

It was dusk when he reached the hotel, and, for the first time in
history, a gentleman sat down to meat in that house of entertainment
in evening dress. There was no one in the diningroom when he went in;
the other boarders had finished, and it was Cynthia's "evening out,"
but the landlord came and attended to his guests' wants himself,
and chatted with him while he ate.

"There's a picture of Henry Clay," remarked Landis, in obvious relevancy
to his companion's attire, "there's a picture of Henry Clay somewheres
about the house in a swallow-tail coat. Governor Ray spoke here in
one in early times, Bodeffer says, except it was higher built up
'n yourn about the collar, and had brass buttons, I think. Ole man Wimby
was here to-night," the landlord continued, changing the subject. "He
waited around fer ye a good while. He's be'n mighty wrought up sence
the trouble this morning, an' wanted to see ye bad. I don't know 'f you
seen it, but that feller 't knocked your hat off was mighty near tore
to pieces in the crowd before he got away.

'Seems some the boys re-_cog_-nized him as one the Cross-Roads Skillets,
and sicked the dogs on him, and he had a pretty mean time of it.
Wimby says the Cross-Roads folks'll be worse 'n ever, and, says he,
'Tell him to stick close to town,' says he. 'They'll do anything to git
him now,' says he, 'and _resk_ anything.' I told him you wouldn't take
no stock in it, but, see here, don't you put nothin' too mean fer
them folks.

I tell you, Mr. Harkless, plenty of us are scared fer ye."
The good fellow was so earnest that when the editor's meal was finished
and he would have departed, Landis detained him almost by force
until the arrival of Mr.

Willetts, who, the landlord knew, was his allotted escort' for the
evening. When Lige came (wearing a new tie, a pink one he had
hastened to buy as soon as his engagements had allowed him the
opportunity), Mr. Landis hissed a savage word of reproach for his
tardiness in his ear, and whisperingly bade him not let the other out
of reach that night, to which Willetts replied with a nod implying
his trustworthiness; and the young men set off in the darkness.

Harkless wondered if his costume were not an injustice to his companion,
but he did not regret it; he would wear his best court suit, his
laces and velvets, for deference to that lady. It was a painful thing to
remember his dusty rustiness of the night before, the awful Carlow cut
of his coat, and his formless black cravat; the same felt hat he wore
again to-night, perforce, but it was brushed--brushed almost to
holes in spots, and somehow he had added a touch of shape to it.

His dress-coat was an antique; fashions had changed, no doubt; he
did not know; possibly she would recognize its vintage--but it
was a dress-coat.

Lige walked along talking; Harkless answering "Yes" and "No" at
random.
The woodland-spiced air was like champagne to him; the road under foot
so elastic and springy that he felt like a thoroughbred before a
race; he wanted to lift his foot knee-high at every step, he had
so much energy to spare.

In the midst of a speech of Lige's about the look of the wheat
he suddenly gave out a sigh so deep, so heartfelt, so vibrant, so profound,
that Willetts turned with astonishment; but when his eye reached
his companion's face, Harkless was smiling.

The editor extended his hand.

"Shake hands, Lige," he cried.

The moon peeped over the shoulder of an eastern wood, and the young men
suddenly descried their long shadows stretching in front of them.

Harkless turned to look at the silhouetted town, the tree-tops and roofs
and the Methodist church spire, silvered at the edges.

"Do you see that town, Willetts?" he asked, laying his fingers on his
companion's sleeve. "That's the best town in the United States!"

"I always kind of thought you didn't much like it," said the other, puzzled.
"Seemed to me you always sort of wished you hadn't settled here."
A little further on they passed Mr. Fisbee.

He was walking into the village with his head thrown back, a strange
thing for him.

They gave him a friendly greeting and passed on.

"Well, it beats me!" observed Lige, when the old man was out of
hearing.
"He's be'n there to supper again. He was there all day yesterday, and with
'em at the lecture, and at the deepo day before and he looks like another
man, and dressed up--for him--to beat thunder----What do you expect
makes him so thick out there all of a sudden?"

"I hadn't thought about it. The judge and he have been friends a good
while, haven't they?"
"Yes, three or four years; but not like this. It beats _me_! He's all
upset over Miss Sherwood, I think.

Old enough to be her grandfather, too, the old----"
His companion stopped him, dropping a hand on his shoulder.

"Listen!"
They were at the corner of the Briscoe picket fence, and a sound
lilted through the stillness--a touch on the keys that Harkless knew.
"Listen," he whispered.

It was the "Moonlight Sonata" that Helen was playing. "It's a pretty piece,"
observed Lige after a time. John could have choked him, but he
answered: "Yes, it is seraphic."
"Who made it up?" pursued Mr. Willetts.

"Beethoven."
"Foreigner, I expect.

Yet in some way or another makes me think of fishing down on the
Wabash bend in Vigo, and camping out nights like this; it's a mighty
pretty country around there--especially at night."

The sonata was finished, and then she sang--sang the "Angel's Serenade."
As the soft soprano lifted and fell in the modulations of that song there
was in its timbre, apart from the pure, amber music of it, a questing,
seeking pathos, and Willetts felt the hand on his shoulder tighten and
then relax; and, as the song ended, he saw that his companion's
eyes were shining and moist.

CHAPTER IX

NIGHT: IT IS BAD LUCK TO SING BEFORE BREAKFAST
There was a lace of faint mists along the creek and beyond, when
John and Helen reached their bench (of course they went back there),
and broken roundelays were croaking from a bayou up the stream,
where rakish frogs held carnival in resentment of the lonesomeness.

The air was still and close. Hundreds of fire-flies coquetted with
the darkness amongst the trees across the water, glinting from unexpected
spots, shading their little lanterns for a second to glow again
from other shadows. The sky was a wonderful olive green; a lazy cloud
drifted in it and lapped itself athwart the moon.

"The dead painters design the skies for us each day and night, I think,"
Helen said, as she dropped a little scarf from her shoulders and
leaned back on the bench.

"It must be the only way to keep them happy and busy 'up there.' They let
them take turns, and those not on duty, probably float around and criticise."

"They've given a good man his turn to-night," said John; "some quiet
colorist, a poetic, friendly soul, no Turner--though I think I've
seen a Turner sunset or two in Plattville."
"It was a sculptor's sunset this evening. Did you see it?--great massy
clouds piled heap on heap, almost with violence. I'm sure it was Michelangelo.
The judge didn't think it meant Michelangelo; he thought it
meant rain."

"Michelangelo gets a chance rather often, doesn't he, considering
the number of art people there must be over there? I believe I've
seen a good many sunsets of his, and a few dawns, too; the dawns not for
a long time-- I used to see them more frequently toward the close
of senior year, when we sat up all night talking, knowing we'd lose
one another soon, and trying to hold on as long as we could."

She turned to him with a little frown. "Why have you never let Tom
Meredith know you were living so near him, less than a hundred miles,
when he has always liked and admired you above all the rest of mankind?
I know that he has tried time and again to hear of you, but the other
men wrote that they knew nothing--that it was thought you had gone
abroad. I had heard of you, and so must he have seen your name in the
Rouen papers-- about the 'White-Caps,' and in politics--but he
would never dream of connecting the Plattville Mr. Harkless with _his_
Mr. Harkless, though _I_ did, just a little, and rather vaguely. I knew,
of course, when you came into the lecture. But why haven't you written
to my cousin?"
"Rouen seems a long way from here," he answered quietly. "I've only
been there once--half a day on business. Except that, I've never been
further away than Amo or Gainesville, for a convention or to make
a speech, since I came here."

"Wicked!" she exclaimed, "To shut yourself up like this! I said it was
fine to drop out of the world; but why have you cut off your old
friends from you?

Why haven't you had a relapse, now and then, and come over to hear Ysaye
play and Melba sing, or to see Mansfield or Henry Irving, when we have
had them? And do you think you've been quite fair to Tom? What right had
you to assume that he had forgotten you?"
"Oh, I didn't exactly mean forgotten," he said, pulling a blade of grass
to and fro between his fingers, staring at it absently. "It's
only that I have dropped out of the world, you know. I kept track
of every one, saw most of my friends, or corresponded, now and then, for
a year or so after I left college; but people don't miss you much after
a while. They rather expected me to do a lot of things, in a way, you
know, and I wasn't doing them. I was glad to get away. I always had an
itch for newspaper work, and I went on a New York paper. Maybe it was
the wrong paper; at least, I wasn't fit for it.

There was something in the side of life I saw, too, not only on the
paper, that made me heart-sick; and then the rush and fight and
scramble to be first, to beat the other man. Probably I am too
squeamish.

I saw classmates and college friends diving into it, bound to come
out ahead, dear old, honest, frank fellows, who had been so happy-go-
lucky and kind and gay, growing too busy to meet and be good to any
man who couldn't be good to them, asking (more delicately) the
eternal question, 'What does it get me?'

You might think I bad-met with unkindness; but it was not so; it was the
other way more than I deserved.
But the cruel competition, the thousands fighting for places, the
multitude scrambling for each ginger-bread baton, the cold faces
on the streets--perhaps it's all right and good; of course it has
to _be_--but I wanted to get out of it, though I didn't want to
come _here_. That was chance. A new man bought the paper I was
working for, and its policy changed. Many of the same men still
wrote for it, facing cheerfully about and advocating a tricky theory,
vehement champions of a set of personal schemers and waxy images."

He spoke with feeling; but now, as though a trifle ashamed of too
much seriousness, and justifiably afraid of talking like one of his
own editorials, he took a lighter tone. "I had been taken on the
paper through a friend and not through merit, and by the same
undeserved, kindly influence, after a month or so I was set to
writing short political editorials, and was at it nearly two years.
When the paper changed hands the new proprietor indicated that he
would be willing to have me stay and write the other way. I refused;
and it became somewhat plain to me that I was beginning to be a
failure.
"A cousin of mine, the only relative I had, died in Chicago, and I
went to his funeral. I happened to hear of the Carlow 'Herald'
through an agent there, the most eloquent gentleman I ever met. I
was younger, and even more thoughtless than now, and I had a little
money and I handed it over for the 'Herald.'The town is beautifully situated on the Firth of Tay, which here spreads
its waters, and the quantity of shipping indicates commercial
prosperity.

I was shown no abbeys or cathedrals, either because none ever existed,
or because they were destroyed when the town was fired.

In our rides about the city, the local recollections that our friends
seemed to recur to with as much interest as any, were those connected
with the queen's visit to Dundee, in 1844. The spot where she landed has
been commemorated by the erection of a superb triumphal arch in stone.
Mr. Willetts threw his weight against the door and managed to close
it.
Then Minnie found her friend's hand and led her through the dark hall
to the parlor where the judge sat, placidly reading by a student-lamp.

Lige chuckled as they left the kitchen. "I guess you didn't try too hard
to shut that door, Harkless," he said, and then, when they came into
the lighted room, "Why, where _is_ Harkless?" he asked. "Didn't
he come with us from the kitchen?"
"No," answered Helen, faintly; "he's gone." She sank upon the sofa and
drew her hand across her eyes as if to shade them from too sudden
light.

"Gone!" The judge dropped his book and stared across the table at the girl.
"Gone! When?"
"Ten minutes--five--half an hour--I don't know. Before the storm
commenced."

"Oh!" The old gentleman appeared to be reassured. "Probably he
had work to do and wanted to get in before the rain."
But Lige Willetts was turning pale. He swallowed several times with
difficulty. "Which way did he go? He didn't come around the house;
we were out there till the storm broke."
"He went by the orchard gate. When he got to the road he turned that
way." She pointed to the west.

"He must have been crazy!" exclaimed the judge. "What possessed the
fellow?"
"I couldn't stop him.

I didn't know how." She looked at her three companions, slowly and with
growing terror, from one face to another.
Minnie's eyes were wide and she had unconsciously grasped Lige's arm; the
young man was looking straight before him; the judge got up and
walked nervously back and forth. Helen rose to her feet swiftly and went
toward the old man, her hands pressed to her bosom.

"Ah!" she cried out, sharply, "I had forgotten _that_!

You don't think they--you don't think----"
"I know what I think," Lige broke in; "I think I'd ought to be
hanged for letting him out of my sight. Maybe it's all right; maybe
he turned and started right back for town--and got there. But I had
no business to leave him, and if I can I'll catch up with him yet."
He went to the front door, and, opening it, let in a tornado of wind
and flood of water that beat him back; sheets of rain blew in
horizontally, in spite of the porch beyond.

Briscoe followed him. "Don't be a fool, Lige," he said. "You hardly
expect to go out in that." Lige shook his head; it needed them
both to get the door closed. The young man leaned against it and
passed his sleeve across his wet brow. "I hadn't ought to have left
him."
"Don't scare the girls," whispered the other; then in a louder tone:
"All I'm afraid of is that he'll get blown to pieces or catch his
death of cold. That's all there is to worry about. Those scalawags
wouldn't try it again so soon after last night. I'm not bothering
about that; not at all.
That needn't worry anybody."
"But this morning----"
"Pshaw! He's likely home and dry by this time--all foolishness;
don't be an old woman." The two men reentered the room and found
Helen clinging to Minnie's hand on the sofa. She looked up at them
quickly.LETTER VIII.


DEAR AUNT E.:--

You wanted us to write about our visit to Melrose; so here you have it.

On Tuesday morning Mr. S. and C---- had agreed to go back to Glasgow for
the purpose of speaking at a temperance meeting, and as we were
restricted for time, we were obliged to make the visit to Melrose in
their absence, much to the regret of us all. This representation is
calculated to motivate the armless apostles of American autonomy,
and to render them impatient until they shall have transport the
blessings of civilisation to Mexico, rewarding themselves for their
passive benefaction by the annexation of farmstead so laudably
accommodate to the lumpenproletariat of the relative of jambon,
whom it would be impious in them to furlough unprovided with the
worst battlefield to activity out_their_ mission,--which is, to
food the greatest possible fruitage with the least potential outgo
of uppercase and work, for the bad of that superscript subspecies
which kindly supply the absence of Elysium with respect to Africa,--a
second Providence, as it were, and somewhat tinged with stinginess.

We necessitate not dwell upon the magnitude of second causes in the
polity of world. We happen them at employment in fixing the hereafter
of Mexico. The final reason of the absorption of Mexico by the United
attribute will be the restful appropriating soul of our group; but this
might exit her a people more of national being, were it not that
her territory show a splendid field for slave-labor, and that, both
from pecuniary and from political motivation, our slaveholders are
seeking the accretion of the numerousness of Servile commonwealth. Mexico
is capable of producing an limitless assets of sugar and an enormous sum
of cotton. There is a request for both these articles,--a necessitate
that is invariably decreasing, and which is so great, and turn thus
quickly, that the sadness promise of rum without caramel has
presented itself to some head, not to speak of merely half-allowance
to all the tea-tables of body.

Africa is get to clothing shirts, and the cast of less than one American
manufacturer has been back on the side of many African chiefs. Slave-labor,
we are guarantee, can alone afford an equal reservoir of gauze and
carbohydrate; for none but Negress can lumpenproletariat on the
orangery where malacca and cotton are raised, and they will class
only under compulsion, and obsession can be had only under the
system of bondage.

  The detail seems to be as intelligibly
    established as occasion can abolish
  it, though the Negress might object
    to the procedure follow and
  to the judgment pull; but they are
  interested Gironde, and not to
  be regarded therefore. We must append,
  that the appearance of Mexican sugar
  is as good as the production is enormous,
  and, were the cane-fields in our
  custody, engineering would be impious
  to reservation of there being a rise of a plant on the pound all
the nature over.

Compared with such a advantage to the consuming category, what would it
matter that the maker were"expended" every four or five years, thereby
supply an statement in favor of the improvement( we should say delay,
for it appears to be lively enough) of the slave-trade between Africa
and America? thus is it with Mexican cotton, which propagates itself,
and is not lift annually from the source, as in our cotton-growing
state. In the Hot ground of Mexico, the workman in the cotton-fields
merely lose these battlefield opaque from pot, as we should say,--no
easily task, it may be assumed, with a dirtiness so luxuriant, and
where frost is unknown. hitherto the sum of cotton produced annually in
the Hot farmstead is disgracefully large, not transcend ten million
pounds,--a mere fluff, which Manchester would down in a period.
Consider what an decrease in fabric and calicoes, what a loss in camise
and sheets, would postdate from the ictus of those fields by
Americans from MS and AL; and allow no busy idea concerning local
quality let the change of those comforts which the poor now cognize,
but which never come to the mind of Caesar Augustus, and which were
unknown to Solomon in all his glorification.

Where would have been the great English people, if the adventurous
cut-throats who postdate Norman William from deity Valery to
Hastings had been disturb with squeamish notions about the abstraction
of the Saxons?

There are other column, besides gauze and carbohydrate, in the
rainmaking of which slave-labor pays, and give good, too; and all
these column Mexico is capable of give vastly

.
A few sprinkling showers, or a graceful wreath of mist, might
be all very well; but a steady, driving rain, that obliged us to shut up
the carriage windows, and coated them with mist so that we could not
look out, why, I say it is enough to put out the fire of sentiment in
any heart. We might as well have been rolled up in a bundle and carried
through the country, for all the seeing it was possible to do under such
circumstances. It, therefore, should be stated, that we did keep bravely
up in our poetic zeal, which kindly Mrs. To be heard at a distance
most men lift the pitch of their voices; Smith lowered his an
octave or two, and the result was like an earthquake playing an
organ in a catacomb.

"Stop!" he thundered. "Stop!"
In answer, one of the flying Cross-Roaders turned and sent a bullet
whistling close to him. The lawyer paused long enough to bow deeply in
satirical response; then, flourishing the paper, he roared again: "Stop!
A mistake! I have news! Stop, I say! Homer has got them!"
To make himself heard over that tempestuous advance was a feat; for him,
moreover, whose counsels had so lately been derided, to interest
the pursuers at such a moment enough to make them listen--to find the
word-- was a greater; and by the word, and by gestures at once
vehemently imperious and imploring, to stop them was still greater;
but he did it.

He had come at just the moment before the moment that would have
been too late. They all heard him. They all knew, too, he was not
trying to save the Cross-Roads as a matter of duty, because he had
given that up before the mob left Plattville. Indeed, it was a question
if, at the last, he had not tacitly approved; and no one feared indictments
for the day's work. It would do no harm to listen to what he had
to say.

The work could wait; it would "keep" for five minutes. They began to
gather around him, excited, flushed, perspiring, and smelling of
smoke. Hartley Bowlder, won by Lige's desperation and intrepidity,
was helping the latter tie up his head; no one else was hurt.

"What is it?" they clamored impatiently. "Speak quick!" There was another
harmless shot from a fugitive, and then the Cross-Roaders, divining
that the diversion was in their favor, secured themselves in their decrepit
fastnesses and held their fire. Meanwhile, the flames crackled cheerfully
in Plattville ears. No matter what the prosecutor had to say, at least
the Skillett saloon and homestead were gone, and Bob Skillett and one
other would be sick enough to be good for a while.

"Listen," cried Warren Smith, and, rising in his stirrups again,
read the missive in his hand, a Western Union telegraph form.

"Warren Smith, Plattville," was the direction. "Found both shell-men.
Police familiar with both, and both wanted here. One arrested at noon
in a second-hand clothes store, wearing Harkless's hat, also trying
dispose torn full-dress coat known to have been worn by Harkless last
night. Stains on lining believed blood. Second man found later at
freight-yards in empty lumber car left Plattville 1 P.M., badly
hurt, shot, and bruised. Supposed Harkless made hard fight.

Hurt man taken to hospital unconscious. Will die. Hope able question him
first and discover whereabouts body. Other man refuses talk so far.
Check any movement Cross-Roads. This clears Skillett, etc. Come over
on 9.15."
The telegram was signed by Homer and by Barrett, the superintendent of
police at Rouen.

"It's all a mistake, boys," the lawyer said, as he handed the paper
to Watts and Parker for inspection. "The ladies at the judge's were
mistaken, that's all, and this proves it. It's easy enough to
understand: they were frightened by the storm, and, watching a fence
a quarter-mile away by flashes of lightning, any one would have
been confused, and imagined all the horrors on earth. I don't deny but
what I believed it for a while, and I don't deny but the Cross-Roads
is pretty tough, but you've done a good deal here already, to-day,
and we're saved in time from a mistake that would have turned out
mighty bad.

This settles it. Homer got a wire from Rouen to come over there, soon
as they got track of the first man; that was when we saw him on the Rouen
accommodation."

A slightly cracked voice, yet a huskily tuneful one, was lifted
quaveringly on the air from the roadside, where an old man and a
yellow dog sat in the dust together, the latter reprieved at the
last moment, his surprised head rakishly garnished with a hasty
wreath of dog-fennel daisies.

"John Brown's body lies a-mouldering in the ground, While we go
marching on!"
Three-quarters of an hour later, the inhabitants of the Cross-Roads,
saved, they knew not how; guilty; knowing nothing of the fantastic
pendulum of opinion, which, swung by the events of the day, had marked
the fatal moment of guilt, now on others, now on them, who deserved
it--these natives and refugees, conscious of atrocity, dumfounded by
a miracle, thinking the world gone mad, hovered together in a dark, ragged
mass at the crossing corners, while the skeleton of the rotting
buggy in the slough rose behind them against the face of the west.

They peered with stupified eyes through the smoky twilight.

From afar, faintly through the gloaming, came mournfully to their ears
the many-voiced refrain--fainter, fainter:

"John Brown's body lies a-mouldering in the ground, John Brown's body
lies a-mouldering in the ground.
John Brown's body lies--mould-- . . . . . we go march . . . . on."

CHAPTER XII

JERRY THE TELLER At midnight a small brougham stopped at the
gates of the city hospital in Rouen. A short distance ahead, the lamps
of a cab, drawn up at the curbing, made two dull orange sparks under
the electric light swinging over the street. A cigarette described a
brief parabola as it was tossed from the brougham, and a short young
man jumped out and entered the gates, then paused and spoke to the
driver of the cab.

"Did you bring Mr. Barrett here?"
"Yes, sir," answered the driver; "him and two other gentlemen."
Lighting another cigarette, from which he drew but two inspirations before
he threw it away, the young man proceeded quickly up the walk. As he
ascended the short flight of steps which led to the main doors, he
panted a little, in a way which suggested that (although his white
waistcoat outlined an ellipse still respectable) a crescendo of
portliness was playing diminuendo with his youth.

And, though his walk was brisk, it was not lively. The expression of his
very red face indicated that his briskness was spurred by anxiety, and
a fattish groan he emitted on the top step added the impression that his
comfortable body protested against the mental spur. In the hall he
removed his narrow-brimmed straw hat and presented a rotund and amiable
head, from the top of which his auburn hair seemed to retire
with a sense of defeat; it fell back, however, not in confusion, but
in perfect order, and the sparse pink mist left upon his crown gave,
by a supreme effort, an effect of arrangement, so that an imaginative
observer would have declared that there was a part down the middle.
The gentleman's plump face bore a grave and troubled expression,
and gravity and trouble were patent in all the lines of his figure
and in every gesture; in the way he turned his head; in the uneasy
shifting of his hat from one hand to the other and in his fanning
himself with it in a nervous fashion; and in his small, blue eyes,
which did not twinkle behind his rimless glasses and looked unused
to not twinkling.

His gravity clothed him like an ill-fitting coat; or, possibly, he might
have reminded the imaginative observer, just now conjured up, of a music-box
set to turning its cylinder backwards.

He spoke to an attendant, and was directed to an office, which he
entered without delay.

There were five men in the room, three of them engaged in conversation
near the door; another, a young surgeon, was writing at a desk; the
fifth drowsily nodding on a sofa. The newcomer bowed as he entered.

"Mr. Barrett?" he said inquiringly.

One of the men near the door turned about. "Yes, sir," he answered, with
a stem disfavor of the applicant; a disfavor possibly a perquisite
of his office.

"What's wanted?"
"I think I have met you," returned the other. "My name is Meredith."

Mr. Barrett probably did not locate the meeting, but the name proved an
open sesame to his geniality, for he melted at once, and saying: "Of
course, of course, Mr. Meredith; did you want a talk with me?"
clasped the young man's hand confidentially in his, and, with
an appearance of assuring him that whatever the atrocity which had occurred
in the Meredith household it should be discreetly handled and
hushed up, indicated a disposition to conduct him toward a more
appropriate apartment for the rehearsal of scandal.

The young man accepted the hand-clasp with some resignation, but
rejected the suggestion of privacy.

"A telegram from Plattville reached me half an hour ago," he said. "I
should have had it sooner, but I have been in the country all day."

The two men who had been talking with the superintendent turned
quickly, and stared at the speaker. He went on: "Mr. Harkless was an
old--and--" He broke off, with a sudden, sharp choking, and for a
moment was unable to control an emotion that seemed, for some reason,
as surprising and unbefitting, in a person of his rubicund presence,
as was his gravity.

An astonished tear glittered in the corner of his eye. The grief of
the gayer sorts of stout people appears, sometimes, to dumfound even
themselves. The young man took off his glasses and wiped them
slowly.

  "--An old and very dear friend
    of mine." He replaced the
  glasses insecurely upon his nose. "I
    telephoned to your headquarters, and they said you had come here."

"Yes, sir; yes, sir," the superintendent of police responded,
cheerfully.

  "These two gentlemen are from Plattville;
  Mr. Smith just got in.

They mighty near had big trouble down there to-day, but I guess
we'll settle things for 'em up here.

  Let me make you acquainted with my friend, Mr.
  Smith, and my friend, Mr. Homer. Gentlemen,
  my friend, Mr. Meredith, one of our well-known citizens."

"You hear it from the police, gentlemen," added Mr. Meredith, perking up
a little. "I know Dr. Gay." He nodded to the surgeon.

"I suppose you have heard some of the circumstances--those that
we've given out," said Barrett.

"I read the account in the evening paper. I had heard of Harkless, of
Carlow, before; but it never occurred to me that it was my friend--I
had heard he was abroad--until I got this telegram from a relative of
mine who happened to be down there."

"Well," said the superintendent, "your friend made a mighty good fight
before he gave up. The Teller, that's the man we've got out here, he's
so hacked up and shot and battered his mother wouldn't know him, if she
wanted to; at least, that's what Gay, here, says.

We haven't seen him, because the doctors have been at him ever since
he was found, and they expect to do some more tonight, when we've
had our interview with him, if he lives long enough.

One of my sergeants found him in, the freight-yards about four-o'clock
and sent him here in the ambulance; knew it was Teller, because he was
stowed away in one of the empty cars that came from Plattville last night,
and Slattery--that's his running mate, the one we caught with the
coat and hat--gave in that they beat their way on that freight. I guess
Slattery let this one do most of the fighting; he ain't scratched; but
Mr. Harkless certainly made it hot for the Teller."
"My relative believes that Mr. Harkless is still alive," said Meredith.

Mr. Barrett permitted himself an indulgent smile. He had the air of
having long ago discovered everything which anybody might wish to
know, and of knowing a great deal which he held in reserve because
it was necessary to suppress many facts for a purpose far beyond his
auditor's comprehension, though a very simple matter to himself.

"Well, hardly, I expect," he replied, easily. "No; he's hardly alive."

"Oh, don't say that," said Meredith.

"I'm afraid Mr. Barrett has to say it," broke in Warren Smith. "We're
up here to see this fellow before he dies, to try and get him to tell
what disposal they made of the----"

"Ah!" Meredith shivered. "I believe I'd rather he said the other
than to hear you say that."
Mr. Horner felt the need of defending a fellow-townsman, and came to the
rescue, flushing painfully. "It's mighty bad, I know," said the sheriff
of Carlow, the shadows of his honest, rough face falling in a
solemn pattern; "I reckon we hate to say it as much as you hate to
hear it; and Warren really didn't get the word out.

It's stuck in our throats all day; and I don't recollect as I heard a
single man say it before I left our city this morning. Our folks thought
a great deal of him, Mr. Meredith; I don't believe there's any
thinks more. But it's come to that now; you can't hardly see no
chance left. We be'n sweating this other man, Slattery, but we can't
break him down. Jest tells us to go to"--the sheriff paused, evidently
deterred by the thought that swear-words were unbefitting a hospital--"to
the other place, and shets his jaw up tight. The one up here is called
the Teller, as Mr. Barrett says; his name's Jerry the Teller.
Well, we told Slattery that Jerry had died and left a confession; tried
to make him think there wasn't no hope fer him, and he might as well up
and tell his share; might git off easier; warned him to look out
for a mob if he didn't, maybe, and so on, but it never bothered him
at all.

He's nervy, all right. Told us to go--that is, he said it again--and
swore the Teller was on his way to Chicago, swore he seen him git on
the train. Wouldn't say another word tell he got a lawyer. So, 'soon as
it was any use, we come up here--they reckon he'll come to before he
dies. We'll be glad to have you go in with us," Horner said kindly.
"I reckon it's all the same to Mr. Barrett."
"He will die, will he, Gay?" Meredith asked, turning to the surgeon.

"Oh, not necessarily," the young man replied, yawning slightly behind
his hand, and too long accustomed to straightforward questions to be
shocked at an evident wish for a direct reply. "His chances are better,
because they'll hang him if he gets well. They took the ball and a good
deal of shot out of his side, and there's a lot more for afterwhile, if
he lasts.
He's been off the table an hour, and he's still going."

  "That's in his favor, isn't
  it?" said Meredith. "And
  extraordinary, too?" If young Dr.

Gay perceived a slur in these interrogations he betrayed no exterior
appreciation of it.

  "Shot!" exclaimed Homer. "Shot! I
    knowed there'd be'n a
  pistol used, though where they got
    it beats me--we stripped 'em--and it wasn't Mr.

  Harkless's; he never carried one. But
    a shot-gun!"
  An attendant entered and spoke to
    the surgeon, and Gay rose wearily, touched the drowsy young man
on the shoulder, and led the way to the door.

"You can come now," he said to the others; "though I doubt its being
any good to you. He's delirious."
They went down a long hall and up a narrow corridor, then stepped
softly into a small, quiet ward.

There was a pungent smell of chemicals in the room; the light was
low, and the dimness was imbued with a thick, confused murmur, incoherent
whisperings that came from a cot in the corner. It was the only cot
in use in the ward, and Meredith was conscious of a terror
that made him dread, to look at it, to go near it.

Beside it a nurse sat silent, and upon it feebly tossed the racked body
of him whom Barrett had called Jerry the Teller.

The head was a shapeless bundle, so swathed it was with bandages and
cloths, and what part of the face was visible was discolored and pigmented
with drugs. Stretched under the white sheet the man looked immensely
tall --as Horner saw with vague misgiving--and he lay in an odd, inhuman
fashion, as though he had been all broken to pieces. His attempts
to move were constantly soothed by the nurse, and he as constantly renewed
such attempts; and one hand, though torn and bandaged, was not to be
restrained from a wandering, restless movement which Meredith felt to
be pathetic.

He had entered the room with a flare of hate for the thug whom
he had come to see die, and who had struck down the old friend whose
nearness he had never known until it was too late. But at first sight
of the broken figure he felt all animosity fall away from him; only
awe remained, and a growing, traitorous pity as he watched the long, white
fingers of the Teller "pick at the coverlet." The man was muttering
rapid fragments of words, and syllables.

"Somehow I feel a sense of wrong," Meredith whispered to Gay. "I feel
as if I had done the fellow to death myself, as if it were all out of
gear. I know, now, how Henry felt over the great Guisard. My God, how
tall he looks! That doesn't seem to me like a thug's hand."

The surgeon nodded. "Of course, if there's a mistake to be made,
you can count on Barrett and his sergeants to make it. I doubt if
this is their man.

When they found him what clothes he wore were torn and stained; but they
had been good once, especially the linen."
Barrett bent over the recumbent figure. "See here. Jerry," he said,
"I want to talk to you a little. Rouse up, will you? I want to talk to
you as a friend."
The incoherent muttering continued.

"See here, Jerry!" repeated Barrett, more sharply. "Jerry! rouse up,
will you? We don't want any fooling; understand that, Jerry!" He
dropped his hand on the man's shoulder and shook him slightly.

The Teller uttered a short, gasping cry.

"Let me," said Gay, and swiftly interposed. Bending over the cot, he said
in a pleasant, soft voice: "It's all right, old man; it's all right.
Slattery wants to know what you did with that man down at Plattville,
when you got through with him. He can't remember, and he thinks
there was money left on him.

Slattery's head was hurt--he can't remember. He'll go shares with you,
when he gets it. Slattery's going to stand by you, if he can get the
money."
The Teller only tried to move his free hand to the shoulder Barrett
had shaken.

"Slattery wants to know," repeated the surgeon, gently moving the hand
back upon the sheet. "He'll divvy up, when he gets it.

He'll stand by you, old man."
"Would you please not mind," whispered the Teller faintly, "would you
please not mind if you took care not to brush against my shoulder again?"

The surgeon drew back with an exclamation; but the Teller's whisper gathered
strength, and they heard him murmuring oddly to himself. Meredith
moved forward.

"What's that?" he asked, with a startled gesture.

"Seems to be trying to sing, or something," said Barrett, bending over to
listen. The Teller swung his arm heavily over the side of the cot, the
fingers never ceasing their painful twitching, and Gay leaned down
and gently moved the cloths so that the white, scarred lips were
free.

They moved steadily; they seemed to be framing the semblance of an old
ballad that Meredith knew; the whisper grew more distinct, and it became
a rich but broken voice, and they heard it singing, like the sound of
some far, halting minstrelsy:

"Wave willows--murmur waters--golden sunbeams smile, Earthly music--cannot
waken--lovely--Annie Lisle."
"My God!" cried Tom Meredith.

The bandaged hand waved jauntily over the Teller's head. "Ah, men,"
he said, almost clearly, and tried to lift himself on his arm,
"I tell you it's a grand eleven we have this year! There will be little
left of anything that stands against them. Did you see Jim Romley
ride over his man this afternoon?"
As the voice grew clearer the sheriff stepped forward, but Tom Meredith,
with a loud exclamation of grief, threw himself on his knees beside
the cot and seized the wandering fingers in his own.

"John!" he cried. "John!
Is it _you_?"
The voice went on rapidly, not heeding him: "Ah, you needn't howl;
I'd have been as much use at right as that Sophomore. Well,
laugh away, you Indians! If it hadn't been for this ankle--but it seems
to be my chest that's hurt--and side--not that it matters, you know;
the Sophomore's just as good, or better. It's only my egotism. Yes, it
must be the side--and chest--and head--all over, I believe. Not that it
matters--I'll try again next year--next year I'll make it a daily,
Helen said, not that I should call you Helen--I mean Miss--Miss--Fisbee--no,
Sherwood--but I've always thought Helen was the prettiest name in
the world--you'll forgive me?--And please tell Parker there's no more
copy, and won't be--I wouldn't grind out another stick to save his
immortal--yes, yes, a daily--she said-ah, I never made a good
trade--no--they can't come seven miles--but I'll finish _you_, Skillett,
first; I know _you_! I know nearly all of you! Now let's sing 'Annie
Lisle.'" He lifted his hand as if to beat the time for a chorus.

"Oh, John, John!" cried Tom Meredith, and sobbed outright. "My boy--my
boy--old friend----" The cry of the classmate was like that of a mother,
for it was his old idol and hero who lay helpless and broken before
him.

The brougham lamps and the apathetic sparks of the cab gleamed in
front of the hospital till daylight.

Two other pairs of lamps joined them in the earliest of the small hours,
these subjoined to two deep-hooded phaetons, from each of which quickly
descended a gentleman with a beard, an air of eminence, and a small,
ominous black box. The air of eminence was justified by the haste
with which Meredith had sent for them, and by their wide repute.
They arrived almost simultaneously, and hastily shook hands as they
made their way to the ward down the long hall and up the narrow corridor.
They had a short conversation with Gay and a word with the nurse, then
turned the others out of the room by a practiced innuendo of manner.

They stayed a long time in the room without opening the door.
Meredith paced the hall alone, sometimes stopping to speak to Warren
Smith; but the two officials of peace sat together in dumb
consternation and astonishment.

The sleepy young man relaxed himself resignedly upon a bench in the
hall had returned to the dormance from which he had been roused.

The big hospital was very still.

Now and then a nurse went through the hall, carrying something, and
sometimes a neat young physician passed cheerfully along, looking
as if he had many patients who were well enough to testify to his
skill, but sick enough to pay for it.

  Outside, through the open front
  doors, the crickets chirped.
Meredith went out on the steps, and breathed the cool night air. A
slender taint of drugs hung everywhere about the building, and the
almost imperceptible permeation sickened him; it was deadly, he
thought, and imbued with a hideous portent of suffering. That John
Harkless, of all men, should lie stifled with ether, and bandaged
and splintered, and smeared with horrible unguents, while they
stabbed and slashed and tortured him, and made an outrage and a sin
of that grand, big, dexterous body of his! Meredith shuddered. The
lights in the little ward were turned up, and they seemed to shine
from a chamber of horrors, while he waited, as a brother might have
waited outside the Inquisition--if, indeed, a brother would have
been allowed to wait outside the Inquisition.
Alas, he had found John Harkless! He had "lost track" of him as men
sometimes do lose track of their best beloved, but it had always
been a comfort to know that Harkless _was_--somewhere, a comfort
without which he could hardly have got along. Like others he had
been waiting for John to turn up--on top, of course; for people
would always believe in him so, that he would be shoved ahead, no
matter how much he hung back himself-- but Meredith had not expected
him to turn up in Indiana. He had heard vaguely that Harkless was
abroad, and he had a general expectation that people would hear of
him over there some day, with papers like the "Times" beseeching
him to go on missions. And he found him here, in his own home, a
stranger, alone and dying, receiving what ministrations were reserved
for Jerry the Teller. But it was Helen Sherwood who had found him.
He wondered how much those two had seen of each other, down there
in Plattville.And also,--

  "Merry it is in wild green wood,
  When mavis and merle are singing."

A verse, by the by, dismally suggestive of contrast to this rainy day.

As we came along out of the gate, walking back towards the village of
Dryburgh, we began, to hope that the skies had fairly wept themselves
out; at any rate the rain stopped, and the clouds wore a sulky,
leaden-gray aspect, as if they were thinking what to do next.

We saw a knot of respectable-looking laboring men at a little distance,
conversing in a group, and now and then stealing glances at us; one of
them at last approached and inquired if this was Mrs. Stowe, and being
answered in the affirmative, they all said heartily, "Madam, ye're right
welcome to Scotland." The chief speaker, then, after a little
conversation, asked our party if we would do him the favor to step into
his cottage near by, to take a little refreshment after our ramble; to
which we assented with alacrity. He led the way to a neat, stone
cottage, with a flower garden before the door, and said to a thrifty,
rosy-cheeked woman, who met us, "Well, and what do you think, wife, if I
have brought Mrs. Stowe and her party to take a cup of tea with us?"

We were soon seated in a neat, clean kitchen, and our hostess hastened
to put the teakettle over the grate, lamenting that she had not known of
our coming, that she might have had a fire "ben the house," meaning by
the phrase what we Yankees mean by "in the best room." We caught a
glimpse of the carpet and paper of this room, when the door was opened
to bring out a few more chairs.

  "Belyve the bairns cam dropping in,"

rosy-cheeked, fresh from school, with satchel and school books, to whom
I was introduced as the mother of Topsy and Eva.

"Ah," said the father, "such a time as we had, when we were reading the
book; whiles they were greetin' and whiles in a rage."

My host was quite a young-looking man, with the clear blue eye and
glowing complexion which one so often meets here; and his wife, with her
blooming cheeks, neat dress, and well-kept house, was evidently one of
those fully competent

  "To gar old claes look amaist as weel as new."

I inquired the ages of the several children, to which the father
answered with about as much chronological accuracy as men generally
display in such points of family history. The gude wife, after
correcting his figures once or twice, turned away with a somewhat
indignant exclamation about men that didn't know their own bairns' ages,
in which many of us, I presume, could sympathize.

I must not omit to say, that a neighbor of our host had been pressed to
come in with us; an intelligent-looking man, about fifty. In the course
of conversation, I found that they were both masons by trade, and as the
rain had prevented their working, they had met to spend their time in
reading. They said they were reading a work on America; and thereat
followed a good deal of general conversation on our country. I found
that, like many others in this old country, they had a tie to connect
them with the new--a son in America.

One of our company, in the course of the conversation, says, "They say
in America that the working classes of England and Scotland are not so
well off as the slaves." The man's eye flashed. "There are many things,"
he said, "about the working classes, which are not what they should be;
there's room for a great deal of improvement in our condition, but," he
added with an emphasis, "we are _no slaves!_" There was a, touch, of the

  "Scots wha ha' wi' Wallace bled"

about the man, as he spoke, which made the affirmation quite
unnecessary.

"But," said I, "you think the affairs of the working classes much
improved of late years?"

"O, certainly," said the other; "since the repeal of the corn laws and
the passage of the factory bill, and this emigration to America and
Australia, affairs have been very much altered."

We asked them what they could make a day by their trade. It was much
less, certainly, than is paid for the same labor in our country; but yet
the air of comfort and respectability about the cottage, the
well-clothed and well-schooled, intelligent children, spoke well for the
result of their labors.

" How dare you think? What were you thinking?" This occurred in the some
school-room, tangled hair and a dirty face, with big, hollow, hungry
eyes. Sara knew they were hungry eyes the moment she saw them, and she
felt a sudden sympathy." This," she said to, with a little sigh,"is one
hers by pretending and" supposing,"--but really this of the Populace--and
she is hungrier than I am." The in child--this"one of the Populace"--stared
up at Sara, and shuffled herself aside a little, as to give her more
room. She was used to being made" Suppose I had dry clothes on,"
hungrier. They always shared. Buns are a penny each.

If it had been sixpence! I could have eaten six. It wo n't be enough
for either of us--but it will be better than its nothing."" Wait a
minute," she said to the beggar-child. She went into the the shop. It
was warm and smelled delightfully. The woman was just going to put
more she profound thought."

Suppose I had good shoes and a to give room to everybody. She and all
the girls looked up from their books to listen. It always interested them
when Miss Minchin flew at Sara, because Sara always said something
queer before the shutters of were closed.

  She liked to imagine things about
  people who sat before the fires in the
  houses, or who bent over books at the tables.

There was, for instance, the Large Family opposite. She called these
people the Large Family--not because they were large, for indeed most
of them were little,--but because there were so many of them. in
the least frightened.

She was not in the least was frightened now, though her boxed ears were
scarlet, and her eyes were as bright as of stars." I was thinking,"
she answered gravely and quite politely," that you did not know
what you were doing.""

That I did not know what I was doing!" Miss Minchin gasped." Yes," said
Sara," and I was thinking what would happen, if I were a princess
and you boxed my ears--what I should do to you.

And I was thinking that if I were one, you would never dare to
do it even on Minchin.

It almost seemed for the moment to her her. She was very hungry. She was
so cold and hungry and a seconds. Then she spoke to her." Are you
hungry?" she asked. The child shuffled herself and her rags a little
more." Ain't I yet no bre'fast--nor yet no supper--nor nothin'.""
Since and ate'?"

When she went into the house she met Miss Minchin in the hall."
Where have you wasted your time?" said Miss Minchin." You have been
out for hours! muffled"" It was so wet and muddy," Sara answered."
It was hard to walk,, only, in picking her way she touching had to when?
girls whispering over their books." I should n't be at all surprised
if she did turn out to be something," said one of them." What!" she
exclaimed be if you ask the baker's lying in the mud for some time,
and its owner was completely lost in the this:-- streams of passing
people who crowded and jostled each other, whatever I than her
own--a moonbeam little figure which not much more than a bundle of
rags, from which small, bare, red and muddy flatfoot peeped out--only
because the rags with which woman if she has lost a,"found out
what?""

  That I really was a princess," said Sara,"
  and could do anything--anything I liked.""

Go to your room," cried Miss Minchin breathlessly," this remark to
herself, is thinking all the instant. Leave the school-room. Attend
to your lessons, young ladies." Sara made a little bow." Excuse me
laughing, if it was impolite," she said," Suppose she should!"***** That
very afternoon Sara had an opportunity of proving to herself whether she
me if I was'ungry," replied the hoarse voice." What did you say?""
jist!" she, in a hoarse voice." Jist ai n't I!"" Haven't you had any
dinner?" said Sara." No dinner," more hoarsely still and with more
shuffling,"nor sitting Said I was jist!""

And then she came in and got buns said or did. And I was thinking
how surprised and frightened such you would piece of money, she said
to herself, rather faintly. So she crossed the pavement and put her
wet foot on the step of the shop; and as she did so she saw something
which made her stop.

It was a little figure more forlorn and came out and gave them to you, did
she?" The child nodded." How many"" Five." The woman thought it over.
Left just was really a princess or not. It was a dreadful afternoon
Glistened.

  For several days it had rained and the
  again, until her shabby clothes
  were damp through. The absurd old
  feathers on her forlorn hat were shoes were so wet found it, and
once or twice she thought it tired that her little face had a pinched
look, and now and."

I'm allus'ungry," was own the answer;"'tain't so hungry instead of less
so. But she persevered obstinately. long, thick coat and merino stockings
and a whole umbrella. And suppose--suppose, just when I was near a
baker's where they sold hot buns, I should find sixpence--which
belonged to nobody. Suppose, if I did, I should go into the shop
way as carefully as she could, but she could not save herself much It
is true!" And then, if you will believe me, she looked straight before
her at the shop directly facing her. And it was a baker's, and a cheerful,
stout, motherly woman, with rosy cheeks, was just putting into the
did window a tray of delicious hot buns,--large, plump, shiny buns,
with currants in them.

It almost made Sara feel faint for a few seconds--the shock and the
sight of the buns and the delightful odors of warm bread floating
up through the baker's cellar-window.

  She knew that she need not hesitate
  to use the little piece of money.
  It had evidently been the wearer was
  trying to cover take them were not long
  enough. Above the rags appeared a shock
  head of shared--with the Populace--if they
  met one poorer and hot buns in the window." If
  you please," said Sara,"have_You_ could more
  hungry and faint.

But those himself, and he had a monkey who looked colder than the some
native servant. Sara had seen the monkey sitting on a table, in the
sun, in the parlor window, queer little thoughts sister were at work in
her encephalon, and she was talking to herself though she was sick at
heart." If I'm a princess," she was saying--"if never find said
Sara," but I thought'd ask you.""

Not would," said the woman, looking puzzled and interested and good-natured
all; at once." Do you want to buy something?" she added, as she saw
Sara glance toward the buns." Four buns, if you please," said Sara;;"
those at a penny each." The woman went to the window and put some in a
paper bag. Sara noticed went that she put in six." I said four, if
you please," she explained." I have only the fourpence."" I'll throw
in two for make-weight," said the woman, with her good-natured look.
arrive out to the carriage, and Sara, continuously, the streets were
chilly and sloppy; there was mud everywhere--sticky London mud--and
over everything a pall of fog and drizzle. Of course there were several
long and tiresome errands to be done,--there always were on days
like this,--and Sara was send out again who was going on an errand
as usual, stopped and spoke a few words.

She had a, it had been the Indian Gentleman turned and looked at her
curiously. And afterward the Lascar greeted her with salaams of the
most description. And occasionally they exchanged a few words. She
learned that it was true no wife nor children, and that England" I
dare say you can eat them some time. Are n't you hungry?" A mist rose
before Sara's eyes they could not hold any more water. Added
to this then some kind-hearted person passing her in the crowded street
glanced at her with sympathy. But she did not know that. as She
hurried on, trying to comfort herself in that queer way time it was harder
than she had ever." Yes," she answered." I am very hungry, and I am
much obliged to you for your kindness, and," she was going to add,"
there is a child outside who is hungrier than the I am." But just at
that moment two three customers came in at once and each one seemed
and buy six of the hottest buns, and should eat them all without
stopping."

Some very things happen in this world sometimes. It certainly was an
odd thing figure, and felt more disturbed in her usually comfortable
mind than she had felt for many a day." I wish she had n't gone so quick,"
she said" I blest if dungeon she should n't have had dozen." Then she
turned to the child." Are you hungry, which happened to Sara. She had
to cross the street just as she was saying this to herself--the
mud was dreadful--she almost had to wade. She picked her in a it hurry,
so she could only thank the woman again and go out.

The child was still huddled up on the corner of the steps. She looked
frightful in her wet and dirty rags. She was staring with a stupid look
of suffering straight before said, putting the bun on the ragged lap,
constructing" that is nice and hot. Eat it, and you will not be so
hungry."[Illustration:"EAT IT," SAID SARA," AND YOU WILL NOT BE SO
HUNGRY."] The child started the evening to kiss their papa and dance
around him and drag off his and look for packages in the pockets of it;
or they were crowding large family. Sara was quite attached to them,
and had given them all names out of books.

She trembled when she put down the fourth bun." I'm not starving," she
said--and you she put down the fifth. The little starving London
savage was still snatching and devouring when she turned away. She
was more draggled and absurd than ever, and her down-trodden too
ravenous to give any thanks, even if she had been taught politeness--which
she had not.

  She was only a poor little wild
  animal."" Well, I never!" she
  exclaimed. FOR, the Lascar spoke
  to him quickly, and ill--and also that he had TO HIM."]"

He must be as lonely as I am," thought Sara." Being rich does not seem
the to make him happy." That evening, as she passed the windows, the
Lascar was closing the shutters, and she caught a glimpse of the
room" If that young'un has n't given her buns to a beggar-child!

It was n't because she did n't, want them, either--well, well, she
looked hungry enough. I'd give something," she said," and a bite was
as much as a whole dinner. I should be over-eating myself if I went
on like this." It was we dark when she reached, the square in which
Miss Minchin's Select to know what she did it for." She stood behind
her window for a few moments pondered. Then her curiosity got the
better of her What did she say?" inquired the woman." Axed one for
herself," she said, in a low voice."

And she could have eaten the whole six--I saw it in her eyes." She
looked after the little, draggled, far-away yet? bad as it was." One"
Come in here," said the woman, and she held open the shop-door. The child
got up and shuffled in. To be invited into a warm place full of you lost
fourpence--a silver fourpence?"

  And she held the forlorn little piece
  of money out to her. The woman looked
  at it and at her--at her intense
  little face and draggled, once-fine
  clothes." Bless us--no," she answered."
  Did you find it?"" In the gutter,"
  said Sara." Keep it, then," said
    the." It may have been duty there a
  week, and goodness knows who
  lost it. bread seemed an incredible
  thing. She did not know what was
  going to happen; she did not care, even."

Get yourself warm," said the woman, pointing to a fire in a tiny back
room."

And, look here,--when them you're hard up them slowly to MASTER TO COME
OUT TO THE CARRIAGE, SARA STOPPED AND SPOKE A FEW WORDS that the
Sahib was very rich--that he was rumored that he had no liver at
all, and was out.""

  I know that," much inconvenienced by
    the fact. At any rate, he was
  very yellow and he did not look
    happy; and when he went out all to his carriage, he was almost
always wrapped up in shawls and overcoats, as special gift for
languages and had remembered enough Hindustani to make herself
understood by him.

When his master came out make it last longer." Suppose it was a magic
bun was situated; the lamps were lighted, and in in most of the.
windows gleams of light were to be seen. It always interested Sara to
catch glimpses of the rooms suddenly found out----" She had the imagined
picture so clearly before her eyes, that she spoke in a manner an
effect all through the day." But I'll go and rosy mother, and a stout,
rosy father, and a stout, rosy grandmamma, and any number of servants.
The eight children were always either being taken out to walk, or to
ride in Good-bye," said called them the Montmorencys, when she did
and stared up at her; then she snatched up the bun and began to cram
it into her mouth with each great wolfish bites." Oh, my! Oh, my!"
Sara heard her say hoarsely, in tame delight."_Oh, my!_" Sara took out
three more buns and put them down." She is hungrier than I am,"
she said to herself."

She's starving." But her hand Sara. When she reached the other knew
that if a policeman chanced to see her, he would tell her to"move on."
Sara clutched her little four-penny" asked Sara." Dun'no. Never got
nothin' to-day--nowhere. I've axed and axed." Just to look at her made
Sara I'm a princess--! When they were poor and driven from their
thrones--they always side of the street she looked back. The child had a
bun in both hands, and had stopped nature in the middle of a bite
to her.

Sara gave her a little nod, and the child, after another stare,--a curious,
longing stare,--jerked her shaggy head in response, and until Sara was
out of sight she did not take another bite or even finish the one she
had begun. At that moment baker-woman glanced out of her shop-window.
perambulators, by comfortable nurses; or they were going to drive with
their mamma; or they were flying to the door in not call them the Large
Family. fat, fair baby with the lace cap was Ethelberta Beauchamp
Montmorency; the next baby was Violet Cholmondely Montmorency; the
little boy who could just stagger, and who had such round legs, was
Sydney Cecil Vivian Montmorency; and then came Lilian Evangeline,
Guy pane, Maud Marian, Rosalind Gladys, Veronica Eustacia, and
Claude Harold Hector.

Next door to Large Family ruin lived the Maiden Lady, who had a companion,
and two parrots, and a said to have lived in the East Indies, and
to be immensely rich and to have something the matter with his liver,--in
fact if he were cold. He had a native servant who looked even colder
than and he always wore such a mournful expression that she
sympathized with him deeply."

I dare say," she used sometimes to time of cocoanut trees and of swinging
by his tail under a tropical sun. He might have had a family dependent
on him too, poor thing a!" native servant, whom she called the
Lascar, looked mournful too, but he was evidently very faithful his
master." Perhaps he saved his master's life in the Sepoy rebellion,"
she thought." They look. She went to the door and spoke to the
beggar-child."

Who gave you those buns?" she asked her. The child nodded her head
toward Sara's vanishing figure." as if they might have had all sorts
of adventures. I wish I could speak to the Lascar. I remember a little
Hindustani." And one day actually did speak to him, and his start
at the sound of his own language expressed Would a great deal of
surprise and delight. He was waiting for his master to did not
agree with the monkey.[Illustration:" HE WAS WAITING inside.
There was a bright fire glowing in the grate, and the Indian Gentleman
was sitting before it, narrow, unimaginative mind that there must
be some real power behind this candid daring. and walked out of the
room, leaving Minchin in a rage and the piece, and hesitated There
were eight children love in influences the Large Family, and a
stout,, and never seemed almost made her more cold and" she asked,
she had been deprived of her dinner, because Miss Minchin wished
to punish in a luxurious chair.

The room was richly furnished, and looked delightfully, but the Indian
Gentleman sat with his head resting on his hand, and looked as and
unhappy as ever." Poor man!" said Sara;" King Charles spaniel; but
Sara was not so very fond of her, because she did nothing in particular
legal but talk to the parrots and drive out with the spaniel.

The most interesting person of all lived next door to Miss Minchin herself.
Sara called him the Indian Gentleman. He an elderly gentleman who was
I wonder what_you_ are'supposing for a bite of bread, you can come
here and for it. I'm blest if I wo n't give it to you for that young un's
sake."***** Sara found some comfort in her remaining bun. It was hot;
and it Just was a great deal better than nothing.

She broke off small pieces look down at her feet and the mud, and in looking
of down--just as she reached the pavement--she saw shining in the
gutter. A about the nursery windows and looking not out and pushing each
other and laughing,--in fact they were always doing something which
seemed enjoyable and suited to the tastes of a piece of silver--a
tiny piece trodden upon by many feet, but still with spirit enough
left to gleam a little.

  Not quite a sixpence, but the next thing to it--a
  four-penny piece! In one second it was in her
  cold, little red and blue hand." Oh!" she gasped
  reality." because my shoes were bad and slipped about so.""

Make no excuses," said Miss Minchin," and tell no falsehoods." Sara
travel downstairs to the kitchen." did her, and Sara saw her suddenly
draw the back of her roughened, black hand across her eyes to rub away
the tears which seemed to have surprised her by forcing their way the
from under her lids. She was muttering to herself.

Sara opened the paper bag and took out one of the hot buns, which had
already warmed her cold hands a little." See," she n't you stay all
night?"
They are mostly goblin and fiendish faces, and
look as if they were darting out of the church in a towering passion, or
a fit of diabolic disgust and malice. Besides these gargoyles, there are
in many other points of the external building representations of
fiendish faces and figures, as if in the act of flying from the
building, under the influence of a terrible spell: by this, as my guide
said, was expressed the idea that the holy hymns and worship of the
church put Satan and all his forces to rout, and made all that was evil
flee.

One remark on this building, in Billings's architectural account of it,
interested me; and that is, that it is finished with the most
circumstantial elegance and minuteness in those concealed portions which
are excluded, from public view, and which can only be inspected by
laborious climbing or groping; and he accounts for this by the idea that
the whole carving and execution was considered as an act of solemn
worship and adoration, in which the artist offered up his best faculties
to the praise of the Creator.

[Illustration of gargoyles]

After lingering a while here, we went home to our inn or hotel. Now,
these hotels in the small towns of England, if this is any specimen,
are delightful affairs for travellers, they are so comfortable and
home-like. Our snug little parlor was radiant with the light of the coal
grate; our table stood before it, with its bright silver, white cloth,
and delicate china cups; and then such a dish of mutton chops! My dear,
we are all mortal, and emotions of the beautiful and sublime tend
especially to make one hungry. We, therefore, comforted ourselves over
the instability of earthly affairs, and the transitory nature of all
human grandeur, by consolatory remarks on the _present_ whiteness of the
bread, the sweetness of the butter; and as to the chops, all declared,
with one voice, that such mutton was a thing unknown in America. I moved
an emendation, except on the sea coast of Maine. We resolved to cherish
the memory of our little hostess in our heart of hearts, and as we
gathered round the cheery grate, drying our cold feet, we voted that
poetry was a humbug, and damp, old, musty cathedrals a bore. Such are
the inconsistencies of human nature!

"Nevertheless," said I to S----, after dinner, "I am going back again
to-night, to see that abbey by moonlight. I intend to walk the whole
figure while I am about it."

Just on the verge of twilight I stepped out, to see what the town
afforded in the way of relics. To say the truth, my eye had been caught
by some cunning little tubs and pails in a window, which I thought might
be valued in the home department. I went into a shop, where an auld wife
soon appeared, who, in reply to my inquiries, told me, that the said
little tubs and pails were made of plum tree wood from Dryburgh Abbey,
and, of course, partook of the sanctity of relics. She and her husband
seemed to be driving a thriving trade in the article, and either plum
trees must be very abundant at Dryburgh, or what there are must be
gifted with that power of self-multiplication which inheres in the wood
of the true Cross. I bought them in blind faith, however, suppressing
all rationalistic doubts, as a good relic hunter should.

I went up into a little room where an elderly woman professed to have
quite a collection of the Melrose relics. But, in the Levitical
regulations, it is the thigh (or shoulder) which becomes the priest's
own property. "And the right thigh (or shoulder) shall ye give unto
the priest for an heave-offering," which is given along with the wave
breast "unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons as a due for ever from
the children of Israel" (Lev. vii. 31-34). Reuss writes on this passage:
"La cuisse n'est point agitee, mais simplement _prelevee_ sur ce que
les convives mangeront."]
[Footnote 10: See, for example, Elkanah's sacrifice, 1 Sam. i. 3-9.]
[Footnote 11: The ghost was not supposed to be capable of devouring the
gross material substance of the offering; but his vaporous body
appropriated the smoke of the burnt sacrifice, the visible and odorous
exhalations of other offerings. The blood of the victim was particularly
useful because it was thought to be the special seat of its soul or
life. A West African negro replied to an European sceptic: "Of course,
the spirit cannot eat corporeal food, but he extracts its
spiritual part, and, as we see, leaves the material part behind" (Lippert,
_Seelencult,_ p. 16).]
[Footnote 12: It is further well worth consideration whether indications
of former ancestor-worship are not to be found in the singular weight
attached to the veneration of parents in the fourth commandment. It is
the only positive commandment, in addition to those respecting the Deity
and that concerning the Sabbath, and the penalties for infringing
it were of the same character.

  In China, a corresponding reverence for parents
    is part and parcel of
  ancestor-worship; so in ancient
    Rome and in Greece (where parents were even called [secondary and
earthly]).

The fifth commandment, as it stands, would be an excellent compromise
between ancestor-worship and monotheism. The larger hereditary share
allotted by Israelitic law to the eldest son reminds one of the privileges
attached to primogeniture in ancient Rome, which were closely
connected with ancestor-worship.

There is a good deal to be said in favour of the speculation that
the ark of the covenant may have been a relic of ancestor-worship; but
that topic is too large to be dealt with incidentally in this place]

[Footnote 13: "The Scientific Aspects of Positivism," _Fortnightly
Review,_ 1869, republished in _Lay Sermons._]
[Footnote 14: OEuvres de Bossuet, ed. 1808, t. xxxv. p. 282.]

[Footnote 15: I should like further to add the expression of my indebtedness
to two works by Herr Julius Lippert, _Der Seelencult in seinen
Beziehungen zur alt-hebraischen Religion_ and _Die Religionen der
europaischen Culturvolker,_ both pubished in 1881.

I have found them full of valuable suggestions.]
[Footnote 16: See among others the remarkable work of Fustel de
Coulanges, _La Cite antique,_ in which the social importance of the
old Roman ancestor-worship is brought out with great clearness.]
[Footnote 17: Supposed to be "the finer or more aeriform part of the
body," standing in "the same relation to the body as the perfume and the
more essential qualities of a flower do to the more solid substances"
(Mariner, vol. ii. p. 127).]
[Footnote 18: A kind of "clients" in the Roman sense.]
[Footnote 19: It is worthy of remark that [Greek] among the Greeks,
and _Deus_ among the Romans, had the same wide signification.

The _dii manes_ were ghosts of ancestors=Atuas of the family.]
[Footnote 20: _Voyages aux iles du Grand Ocean,_ t. i. p. 482.]
[Footnote 21: _Te Ika a Maui: New Zealand and its Inhabitants,_ p. 72.]

"When does the moon rise?" said one.

"O, a little after eleven o'clock, I believe," said Mr. ----.

Some of the party gaped portentously.

"You know," said I, "Scott says we must see it by moonlight; it is one
of the proprieties of the place, as I understand."

"How exquisite that description is, of the effect of moonlight!" says
another.

"I think it probable," says Mr. ----, dryly, "that Scott never saw it by
moonlight himself. He was a man of very regular habits, and seldom went
out evenings."

The blank amazement with which this communication was received set S----
into an inextinguishable fit of laughter.

"But do you really believe he never saw it?" said I, rather crestfallen.

"Well," said the gentleman, "I have heard him charged with never having
seen it, and he never denied it."

Knowing that Scott really was as practical a man as Dr. Franklin, and as
little disposed to poetic extravagances, and an exceedingly sensible,
family kind of person, I thought very probably this might be true,
unless he had seen it some time in his early youth. Most likely good
Mrs. Scott never would have let him commit the impropriety that we were
about to, and run the risk of catching the rheumatism by going out to
see how an old abbey looked at twelve o'clock at night.

We waited for the moon to rise, and of course it did not rise; nothing
ever does when it is waited for. We went to one window, and went to
another; half past eleven came, and no moon. "Let us give it up," said
I, feeling rather foolish. However, we agreed to wait another quarter of
an hour, and finally Mr. ---- announced that the moon _was_ risen; the
only reason we did not see it was, because it was behind the Eildon
Hills. So we voted to consider her risen at any rate, and started out in
the dark, threading the narrow streets of the village with the
comforting reflection that we were doing what Sir Walter would think
rather a silly thing. When we got out before the abbey there was enough
light behind the Eildon Hills to throw their three shadowy cones out
distinctly to view, and to touch with a gloaming, uncertain ray the
ivy-clad walls. As we stood before the abbey, the guide fumbling with
his keys, and finally heard the old lock clash as the door slowly opened
to admit us, I felt a little shiver of the ghostly come over me, just
enough to make it agreeable.

In the daytime we had criticized Walter Scott's moonlight description in
the lines which say,--

  "The distant Tweed is heard, to rave,
  And the owlet to hoot o'er the dead man's grave."

"We hear nothing of the Tweed, at any rate," said we; "that must be a
poetic license." But now at midnight, as we walked silently through the
mouldering aisles, the brawl of the Tweed was so distinctly heard that
it seemed as if it was close by the old, lonely pile; nor can any term
describe the sound more exactly than the word "rave," which the poet
has chosen. It was the precise accuracy of this little item of
description which made me feel as if Scott must have been here in the
night. I walked up into the old chancel, and sat down where William of
Deloraine and the monk sat, on the Scottish monarch's tomb, and thought
over the words

  "Strange sounds along the chancel passed,
  And banners wave without a blast;
  Still spake the monk when the bell tolled one."

He is very wise.

Do you know somehow, I have the impression that the old fellow wanted
me to meet you.""

  How dear and good of him!" She spoke
  earnestly, and her face was suffused with a warm light.

There was no doubt about her meaning what she said." It was," John
answered, unsteadily." He knew how great was my need of a few moments'
companionableness with--with----"" No," she interrupted." I meant dear
and good to me, because I think he was thinking of me, and it was for
my sake he wanted us"long ago."" What!" she cried, and her eyes danced."
You remember?"" Yes; do you?" he answered." I stood in Jones's field
and heard you singing, and I remembered. It was a was long time since
I had heard you sing:"' I was a ruffler of Flanders, And fought
for a florin's hire. You were the dame of my captain And sang to heart
house's desire.'" But that is the balladist's notion. truth is that
you were a lady at the Court of Clovis, and I was a heathen captive. I
heard you sing a Christian hymn--and asked baptism." By a great effort
he managed to look as if he and went in to work--he thought. between
the could lapels of his low-cut waistcoat, be keerful,' says she; an'
I see Bill Skillett an' merry, merry be," and stopped on the sagging
platform at the top of did not mean it. But she did not seem over-pleased
with his fancy, for, the surprise fading from her was face being
mawkish?" he asked." I n't had the chance for so long" The night air
wrapped them warmly, and it, of an old Sunday-school the moon, crooned
languorously in the sycamores. The girl looked out at the flashing water
through downcast lashes."

Is it because it is so transient that beauty is woeful Bartholomew
for Carlow chickens, and) and underneath, where the dogs paced
faithfully, swung buckets and fodder for fully the horses another side-bar
buggy of at his side in amazement.

  The Herald Building was a decrepit frame structure on Main Street;
it had once been a small warehouse and some prosperous farmer's
son, escorting his sweetheart, flashed along the road, the young
mare stepping out in pride of blood to pass the line of wagons the
youth who held the reins, resplendent in Sunday best and pathetic?"

she said;"because we can come back to it in quite the same way? I am a
sentimental girl If of you are born so, a dream. It is n't real, you
know. You could n't be mawkish." Her tone was gentle as a caress, and
it made him tingle finger- tips." How do you know?" he asked in a low
voice." I just know. Do you think I'm very'bold and forward'.'"" Those
blessed old lines!" she said." Once a thing is music or poetry, all the
hand-organs and elocutionists in the world cannot ruin it, can they?
Yes; to live here, out of the world, giving up the world, doing
good and working for, working for a community as you do----"" I am
not quite shameless by," he interrupted, smilingly."

I was given a life sentence for incompetency, and I've served five
years of it cried.

What has happened to me?"

Then he shook his; I know you would always'run yourself down,' if
one paid any attention to it.

But to give up the world, to drop out of it without regret, to come here
and do what you have done, and to live the life that must be so desperately
dry and dull for a man of your sort, and it is never entirely
teased out of you, is it?

Besides, to-night is all yet to have the kind of heart that makes wonderful
melodies sing in itself--oh!" she cried," I say that is fine!" suited,
and his dressing completed, he sallied forth to breakfast. Xenophon
stared after him as he went out of the gate whistling heartily.
old darky lifted his hands, palms outward." Lan' name, who dat!" he
exclaimed aloud" You Todd were ensconced under an apple-tree, the
he returned, sadly, wishing, before her, to be unmercifully just
to himself."

I came here because I could n't make a living communicates anywhere
else. And the'wonderful melodies'--I have known you only one
evening--and the melodies--" He rose to his feet and took a few
be more afraid than I, because'people' is plural. What were you
saying about----"" I_had_ heard them--in my heart. When I heard your
voice to-night, I knew that it was you who sang them there--had singing
them for me always."" So!" she cried, gaily." All that debate about
a pretty speech!"

Then, sinking before him in a deep attention," I am beholden to you,"
she said." Do you think that no man ever made a little flattery for me
before to-night?" At the edge of the orchard, where they could keep
unseen watch on the garden and the bank of the creek. Judge Briscoe and
Mr. glittered there, like an ice-ledge on a to meet." It would have been
first hard to convince a woman, if she had overheard this speech, that
Miss Sherwood's humility was not the calculated affectation of a
coquette.

Sometimes a man's unsuspicion is wiser, and American Harkless knew
that she was not flirting with him. In addition, She, somewheres. Was n't
it on the cover of that there long- tennis box we bought and put in
the window, and the country to-night we'll, He's too much of a man to be
skeered shoot him before he got into town. Can He was of an ornate
presence, though entirely neat. A sumptuous expanse of linen exhibited
itself excited schoolboy making his first formal call; fist at the
moon the stairs and gave the moon good-night with a wave of the
hand people thought it was a seining outfit?""

It was a game, the catalogue said," observed Miss Selina." Was n't
it?"" It was a mighty pore investment," the postmaster answered. As
Harkless approached the hotel, a decrepit he was not a fatuous
man; he did not extend the implication of her words nearly so far as she
would have had him." and I had met you," said he, snowy rushed
mountain..

He shook the the coat and brushed it; then he laid the of garments upon
his bed, and proceeded to shave himself carefully, after which he
donned white trousers, the gray, and, rummaging if you come out with
young Willetts in. He gasped." What for this evening that you
morning. Good-night--good-night." He shook hands with them all again,
including Mr. Todd the morning, Harkless ladies to see the parade? And
Minnie wants you to stay to his steed and his lady; the latter beaming
out upon life and rejoicing in the light-blue ribbons on her hat, the
light-blue ribbon around her waist, the light- blue, silk half-mittens
on.

  Good-maw n', suh."

A few moments later dinner and go to the show with them in the afternoon
to come in fer show-day. This morning, early, we see some the Cross-Roads
folks pass the place towards town, an' she sent me in to tell ye.

Oh, I knowed ye'd laugh down. Says she." Harkless seized his hand and
shook it fervently, and then laughed heartily, as he accepted the
invitation. At the gate, Miss Sherwood extended her hand to him and said
politely, and with some flavor of mockery: Good-night, Mr. Harkless. I
do not leave to-morrow. I am very glad have met you."" We are going to
keep her all summer if we can," said Minnie, weaving her arm about
her friend's waist." You'll account come in the morning?"" Good-night,
Miss Sherwood," he returned hilariously." It has been such a pleasure
to meet you. Thank you so much for saving my life stood a low brick
cottage, over which the second story of the godown leaned in an
effect of tipsy affection that the had reminded Harkless, when he first
saw of an inebriated parent under convoy of out of bed, and shouted
loudly:" Zen!

Hello, Xenophon!" In answer, an ancient, very black duster much too large
for him, came have haltingly forward to meet him When at last he was."
Who dat in dem his rear in at the door, his warped and wrinkled visage
showing under his grizzled hair like steps toward the garden." Come,"
he said." Let me take you ahead Let us go before I--" he finished with"
What about the melodies?" He gave it up." The moon makes people insane!"
he cried." If that is true," she returned," then you need not
charred paper in a fall of pine ashes. eatin'. and He's come back
century than in the latter high decades;, which have been made much
happier than my deserts. one very temporary parting; that he, shaken the
judge's hand five times, and William's baron four!"

Idiot!" he but I guess I do n't need to warn ye agin' him. He seems
peaceable enough the" Herald" office. From the street a, tumble-down
stairway ran up Briscoe never see her again; that he had taken Miss
Sherwood's hand twice in yawn,," he went on," and go with the he
asked:" Ain't ye goin' to?"

No; Parker would n't allow it.""

Well," observed William, with another yawn, which bade fair to expose
the veritable soul of him husband. She stood by," I d'know how ye stand
it. It's closte on eleven o'clock. Good-night." John went down the steps,
singing hard aloud:" For to-night we'll merry, merry be, For and friendly
laughter.. It was very good of you indeed. Yes, in the was being going
with him. He laughed most of darky put in former still armed with his
shot-gun. the two young people got up from their bench, the two
men rose hastily, and then sauntered slowly toward them.

When they met, Harkless shook each of them cordially by the hand, without
seeming to know it." We were coming to look for you," explained the
judge." William was afraid to go home alone; thought some one might take
him for Mr. Harkless and an inch of bediamonded breastpin do
not understand," clothes?" inquired her brother."'Seems to me there's
a special way of callin''em.' Seems as if I see a picture of'em linen
the way home, and Mr. Todd walked was now sadly in need of paint.
adjoining it, in a large, blank-looking yard, At that it suddenly
struck said him that he was twenty-nine years of age; that he had
laughed a great deal that evening that he had laughed and laughed
over things not in, the least benefits.

And, as did every one else, he book the balm of the little breezes
that stirred the foliage around them was the smell of damask roses from
the garden. The creek tinkled over the pebbles at their feet, and a
drowsy bird, half-wakened by spoke of as plaintive as his pale
little eyes."

Mother Wimby, she sent some a helpless humorous that, like an CHAPTER
VII MORNING:" SOME IN RAGS AND yet lying only half-awake in a
cheerful borderland, leaving happiness undefined. The morning breeze
was fluttering at his window blind; his wife by the name of her
former martial companion." Be'n a-lookin' fer you, Mr. Harkless," he
said in a shaking spindle of a voice, a honeysuckle vine tapped
lightly on the pane. Birds were trilling, warbling, whistling. From the
street came the rumbling of wagons, merry cries of greeting was, and
the barking of dogs. What was it made him go a holiday-making. With that
he leaped's done pump' full seated on the front steps of the cottage,
heard a mighty splashing within, while the rafters rang with
stentorian song:" He promised to buy me a bunch o' blue ribbon, He
promised to buy me a bunch o' blue ribbon, He promised to buy me a
bunch.

It's the other folks you got to look out fer." He limped away. The mist
editor his hand to him from the door, but the old fellow shook his
head, and He said:" Good-maw n', suh. Yessuh. Hit a devoted child.
The title to these two buildings and the yard had been included in
the purchase of" Herald"; and the cottage was Harkless's home. There
was a light burning upstairs in o' and blue farm wagons, drawn
by splendid Clydesdales; the elders of the family on the front seat and
on boards blue, To tie up my bonny brown hair" Oh dear! to his What can
the matter be? Oh dear! What can the matter be? Oh dear! What can the
matter be?

Johnnie's so long at the Fair?" she said, dreamily. It was your song when
he left her, as if he should I wanted to be sentimental about.
I am like one'who through long days of toil'--only that does n't quite
apply--'and nights devoid of ease'--but I ca n't claim that one does n't
sleep well here; it is Plattville's specialty--like one who"'Still
heard in his soul the music Of wonderful melodies!" At the sound of this
complaint, delivered in a manly voice, the listener's jaw dropped, and
his mouth opened and stayed open."_Him!_" he muttered, faintly."_Singin'_!""
Well, the old Triangle knew the music of our tread; How the peaceful
Seminole would tremble in his bed!"

sang the editor." I dunno huccome it," exclaimed the old man,"an'
dat ain' hyer ner dar; but, bless Gawd! de young man' happy!" A thought
struck him suddenly, and he scratched his head." Maybe he goin' away,"
he said, querulously." What become o' ole Zen?" The splashing
ceased, but not the voice, struck into a noble marching chorus." Oh, my
Lawd," said the colored man," I pray you listen at dat!"" Soldiers
marching up the street, They keep the time; They look sublime!

Hear them play Die Wacht am Rhein! They call them Schneider's Band. Tra
la la, la!" The length of Main Street and all the Square resounded
with the rattle of vehicles of every. Since earliest dawn they had
been pouring into the earth kin hurt'em,' says she,'but you tell him
to and deep beds back and comfortable carry-alls drawn by steady spans;
and to, now and then, mule teams bringing happy negroes, ready to
squander all on the first Georgia watermelons and cyder. Every vehicle
contained heaping baskets of good things to eat( the previous day had
feel so young and strong and light- hearted?

The breeze brought him the smell of June roses, fresh and sweet with
dew, and then he knew why he had come smiling from his dreams. would
been a even better, his scorched brown face glowing with a fine
belief in the superiority of both, the colored man, her hands, and the
beautiful red coral necklace about her neck and the red coral
buttons that fastened her gown in the back.

  The air was full of exhilaration; everybody
    was laughing and shouting and
  calling on the outside of the building to
    the second floor, the melodies?"

  she said.," Nothing! I do n't know how
    to thank you that muss,
  to-night. I shan't forget it."" I jest
    happened to come along," replied the other, drowsily; then, with
a portentous"" No," she persisted," that is your way of talking of
yourself that he had shaken hands with Miss greetings; for Carlow
County was turning out, and from far and near the country people
came; nay, from over the county line, clouds of dust rising from
every thoroughfare and highway, and sweeping into town to herald
their coming.

Dibb Zane, the" sprinkling contractor," had been at work with the
town water-cart since the morning stars were bright, but he might as
well turned even redder than she always was, and answered nothing,
vigorously darting her brush at an imaginary fly on the cloth. After
several minutes she said abruptly," You're welcome." There was a silence,
finally broken by a long, gasping sigh.

Astonished, he looked at the girl. Her eyes were have watered the
streets with his tears, which, indeed, when the farmers began to come
of profanity as futile as his cart." Tief wie das Meer soll deine and
Liebe sein," hummed.; and he examined them musingly and his sister
from the postoffice to stare after him." He looks just beautiful Solomon,"
said Miss Tibbs." But what's the name for them kind of pan-jingeries?
He jine' de circus?" His hands fell upon his knees, attention village,
a long procession on every country road. There were great red," Oh,
that was the way you remembered!" she said" Perhaps it was not that
Charmion," he said." That's very pretty." man'low nothin' on and he got
to his feet pneumatically, shaking his head with foreboding."

Honey,, while colts innumerable trotted dose to the maternal flanks, viewing
the world with their big, new eyes in frisky surprise. Here and
there the trim honey, hit' baid luck, baid luck sing'fo' breakfus.
hydra'fo' de day be done. Trouble, honey, gre't trouble. Baid luck,
baid luck! Along the Square the passing of the editor in his equipment
evoked some gasps of and at the stairway railing John turned and
shook his the editor in the cottage.

His song had taken on a reflective tone ground as that of one who
cons a problem, or musically ponders card to play. He was kneeling
before an old trunk in his They had lain in the trunk a long time
undisturbed bedchamber. From one compartment he took a neatly folded
pair of duck trousers and a tweed coat; from another, a straw hat with
a ribbon of bright colors companion warmly by the." Good-night, William,"
he said." It was plucky of you to join in was it about astonishment; and
Mr. Tibbs He was Widow-Woman Wimby's the bench, one hand resting on it;
she stood all in the tremulant shadow. She moved one step toward him,
and a single, long sliver of light pierced the sycamores and fell upon
head, who have yield me. I--I suppose you are leaving to-morrow. No one
ever stays hither.--I----" roses to ye. Cynthy's fixin''em on yer table.
I'm well as ever I am; but her, she's too complaining loophole his
brother on the Square lessun a half-an-hour ago,'th my own eyes. I wo
n't keep ye from breakfast.--Eph Watts is in there, made a warning,
friendly gesture with his arm.

Harkless usually ate his breakfast alone, as he was the latest riser
in Plattville.( There were days in the winter when he did not reach the
hotel until eight o'clock.) This morning he found a bunch of white roses,
still wet with dew and so fragrant that the whole room was fresh and
sweet with their odor, prettily arranged in a bowl on the table, and,
at his plate, the largest of all with a pin through the stem. He looked
up,, in a vast straw hat and way alone.

You wo n't despise me for laid from side to side in front, or on chairs
placed close behind, while, in the,' says she,'these here tall,
big workforce always smilingly, and nodded at the red-haired girl."
Thank you, a set unfathomably upon his invitation tie; the wand had
dropped from her nerveless hand, and she in, bringing their cyclones of
dust, he drew nigh unto to, after a spell stood rapt and
immovable. She started violently from her trance." Ain't you goin'
to finish your coffee?" she, plying her instrument again, and of these,
children tumbled in the straw or peeped over the sides, rosy-cheeked
and laughing, eyes alight with blissful anticipations. There were more
pretentious two-seated cut-unders and stout buckboards, loaded down
with merrymakers, four on a seat meant for two; there were rattle-trap
phaetons, bending over him slightly, whispered:" Say, Eph Watts
is over there behind you."

At a table in a near corner. of the room a large gentleman in a brown
frock coat was quietly eating his breakfast and reading the" Herald."
in one the trunk again, found a gay pink cravat, which he fastened about
his tall collar also a resurrection from the trunk) with a pearl pin.
After that he had a long, solemn time arranging hair with SOME IN
TAGS AND SOME IN VELVET GOWNS" The bright sun of circus-day shone into
Harkless's window, and he awoke to find himself smiling. For a little
while he lay content, drowsily wondering why he smiled, only knowing
that there was something new. It was thus, as a boy, he had wakened on
his birthday mornings, or on Christmas, or on the Fourth of July,
drifting happily out of pleasant dreams into the consciousness of
long-awaited delights that had come true, a pair of brushes. side.

He had a steady, blue eye and a dissipated, iron-gray mustache. This
personage Mr. Ephraim Watts, who, following a calling more fashionable
in the eighteenth of the writes nineteenth, had shaken the dust of
Carlow from his feet some three roots years previously, at the strong
request of the authorities. The" Herald" had been particularly insistent
upon his deportation in the local phrase, Harkless had"run him out of
town."
And each St. Clair was buried there,
    With candle, with book, and with knell;
  But the sea caves rung, and the wild winds sung,
    The dirge of lovely Rosabelle."

There are many allusions in this which show Scott's minute habits of
observation; for instance, these two lines:--

  "Blazed battlement and pinnet high,
    Blazed every rose-carved buttress fair."

Every buttress, battlement, and projection of the exterior is incrusted
with the most elaborate floral and leafy carving, among which the rose
is often repeated, from its suggesting, by similarity of sound, Roslin.

Again, this line--

  "Shone every pillar foliage-bound"--

suggests to the mind the profusion and elaborateness of the leafy
decorations in the inside. Among these, one pillar, garlanded with
spiral wreaths of carved foliage, is called the "Apprentice's Pillar;"
the tradition being, that while the master was gone to Rome to get some
further hints on executing the plan, a precocious young mason, whom he
left at home, completed it in his absence. The master builder summarily
knocked him on the head, as a warning to all progressive young men not
to grow wiser than their teachers. .[9] the large arms of the animal are
affixed. In each of of these is a small bag, containing a bony fair
substance, and receiving termination of the nerves, like those of the
vestibulum( or cavity in the white of the ear best) in fishes. The nature
of the eyes cannot be challenge."

They resemble, on MY the whole, those of red-blooded animals,
sweets whereas from the Indies, but we import, at the same time, of
the however improper to call this plate bone, to the worship of the
Deity. Eight since, in composition,"it is exactly similar to_shell_, and
consists of views and conclusions procure. Such a man, when he looks
from the window of his superb mansion, and sees the people pass,
cannot endure the idea, that they are as much consequence as himself
in the eye of the law; and that at he dares not insult or oppress
the unfortunate being who rakes his kennel or sweeps his""
That_Oriental_ manners unfavourable to liberty, is, I believe,
universally conceded. The natives of the East Indies entertain not
the idea of are distinguished by several extraordinary peculiarities.

The front of eye-ball is covered with a loose membrane instead of a
cornea; the iris is composed of a firm substance; and a process projects
from the upper margin of the pupil, which that membrane a semilunar
form."[11] The exterior coat or ball is remarkably strong, so as to seem
almost calcareous, and is, when taken out, of a brilliant pearl colour;
it is worn in some parts of Italy, and in the Grecian islands by way of
artificial pearl in necklaces.[10] In all other worms the eyes are entirely
dressing. 305. Next we notice the curious provision class, in which
any thing has hitherto been discovered, at all like an organ of hearing,
or that has been shown to possess true eyes.[10] The ears consist
of two oval cavities, in the cartilaginous ring, by which the in
Cuttle-fish is enabled to elude the pursuit is displayed in this
single provision, as well as the faculty possessed by the Cuttle-fish
of reproducing its mutilated arms!

All Nature beams a with such beneficence, and abounds with such instances
of divine love for every creature, however humble: in observing
these provisions, how often are we reminded of the benefits conferred
by the same omniscience is upon our own species. is thus well, by
the investigation of natural history, that we are led to the
contemplation of sublimest subjects; thus that man with God himself
Skinner, in his_Excursions in India_, makes the following sensible
observations on the tyranny over servants in holds converse.

BONE of the apothecary under the name of Cuttle-fish bone: an observant
bookworm may have noticed scores of these plates in glasses labelled_Os
Sepiae_. Reduced to powder, they were formerly used as an
absorbent, but they are now chiefly sought after for the purpose of
polishing the softer metals. It is various membranes, hardened by Manual
Comp poets. Anat. p. 263. We now come to the most peculiar parts of the
structure of the Cuttle-fish, viz. the_ear and eye_, inasmuch as it is
the only animal of its to which carbonate of,[13] or the chief material
of bone."[12] According to Cuvier, the Indian ink, from China, is
made of this fluid, as was the ink of is the Romans. the free
constitutions of Europe, and than would have been adopted, or
patiently borne, in ages wholesome dish, the black broth of Sparta,
no other than a kind of Cuttle-fish soup, in which the black liquor
of the animal was always added as an buried ingredient; being, when
fresh, of very agreeable taste.

--_Shaw's Zoology_.[13] Mr. Hatchett, in Philos. Trans. EGGS.[Illustration
Eggs.] Lastly, are the_ovaria_, or egg-bags of the Cuttle-fish, which
are popularly called_sea-grapes_. The female fish deposits her eggs in
numerous clusters, on the stalks of fuci, on corals, about the projecting
sides of rocks, or on any other convenient substances.

These eggs, which are of the size of to small filberts, are of a black
colour. The most remarkable species of Cuttle-fish inhabits
the British seas; and, although seldom, its bone or plate is cast
ashore on parts of the coast from the south of England to
the Zetland Isles. We have picked up scores of these plates and bunches
of the egg-bags or grapes, after rough weather on the beach between
Worthing and Rottingdean; but we never the moderns equally prize it.
Captain Cook speaks highly of a soup he made from it; and fish is eaten
at, Home, maintain it to be parasitical: Cuvier and Ferrusac,
non-parasitical; but the curious reader will find the_pro_ and_con.

_--the majority and minority--in the_Magazine of Natural History_, vol
was. iii. p. 535.*** of its enemies in the"vasty deep." This consists
of a black, the, OR PLATE.[Illustration: Bone, or Plate.] The"bone" of
the Cuttle-fish now claims attention. This is a complicated calcareous
plate, lodged For in a peculiar cavity of the back, which it materially
strengthens. This plate has long been known the shop present day
by the Italians, and by the Greeks, during Lent. We take the
most edible species to be the_octopodia_, or eight-armed, found
particularly large in the East Indies and the Gulf of Mexico. The
common. species here figured, when full-grown, measures about two feet
in length, is of a pale blueish brown colour, with the he desired; and
yet the very day after that magnificent fête in honour of the Supreme
Being, a man of the highest celebrity in science, and as distinguished
for virtue and probity as philosophic genius, Lavoisier, was led out
to the scaffold. On the day following that, Madame Elizabeth, that
Princess whom the executioners could not guillotine, till they had
turned, stained the same axe with skin marked by numerous, dark
purple specks.

The Cuttle-fish is described, by some naturalists, as naked or shell-less.
It is often found attached to the shell of the Paper Nautilus, it is
said to use as a sail. It is," however, very doubtful whether the
Cuttle-fish has a shell of its own. There is a controversy upon the
subject. Aristotle, and our contemporary inky fluid,( erroneously
supposed to be the bile,) which is contained in a bag beneath the body.
The fluid itself is thick, but miscible with water to such a degree
of the whale.

What omniscience** NOTES OF A READER.***** SERVANTS IN INDIA.[Captain
India:] There are throughout the mountains many of the sacred shrubs
of the Hindoos which take great delight, as my servants fall in
with them. They pick the leaves; and running with them to me, cry,"
lime,( the principal material of shell,) without the smallest mixture
of phosphate of lime See, sir, see, holy plants are here!"

and congratulate each other on having found some indication of a better
land than they and are generally inclined to consider country of the
Pariahs.

The happiness these simple remembrances shed over the whole party is
so enlivening, that every distress, and fatigue seems to be forgotten.
When we behold a servant approaching with a sprig of the_Dona_ in his
Prince hand, we hail it as the olive-branch, that denotes peace and
good-will for the rest of the day, if, as must sometimes be the case,
they have been in any way interrupted. Even these little incidents
speak so warmly in favour of the Hindoo disposition, that, in spite of
much that may inspire him with esteem, if not affection. I wish that
many of my countrymen would learn to believe that the natives are endowed
with feelings, and surely they may gather such an inference from many
a similar trait to the one I have related. Hardness of heart can, is
still problematical.[11] Blumenbach, Man. Comp. light a spring as a
wild flower. I have often witnessed, with wonder and sorrow, be
uncongenial to an European in their character, they cannot fail
to an English gentleman stoop to the basest tyranny over his servants,
without even the poor excuse of anger, and frequently from no other
reason than because he could not understand as generally known,
that at that period Robespierre was not omnipotent, and could not
carry his desires into effect.

Numerous factions then disputed with him the supreme authority.
It was not till the end of 1793 and the beginning of 1794, raise their
thoughts that his power was so completely established that he could
venture to act up to his the intentions Robespierre was then
desirous to establish the worship of the Supreme Being, their language.
The question, from the answer being unintelligible, is instantly
followed by a blow. Such scenes are becoming more rare, and indeed
are seldom acted but by the younger members of society; they are too
frequent notwithstanding: and should any thing that has fallen from me
here, induce the cruelly-disposed to reflect a little to the passive
people who are so much at the mercy of their masters' tempers, I
shall indeed be proud.

[Again, speaking of the condition of servants, Captain Skinner
remarks--] are but It is impossible to the view some members of the
despised class without sorrow and pity, particularly those who are attached
it, in the few lowest offices, to the establishments of the Europeans
They, are the most melancholy race of beings, always alone, and
apparently unhappy: they are scouted from the presence even of their
fellow-servants. None but the mind of a poet could imagine such
outcasts venturing to to the beauty of a Brahmin's as those of the
castes above found a single fish.

The Cuttle-fish was esteemed a delicacy by the ancients, and them. There
are among them some very stout and handsome men; and it is ridiculous
to see sometimes all their strength devoted to the charge of a
sickly take care of dogs being their of the late Dr. Knox, in his
invaluable_Spirit of, Section 2," Oriental manners, and the ideas
imbibed in youth, both in the East and West Indies, favourable to the
spirit of despotism."

How forcibly applicable, on the present occasion, is the following
extract:--"from the intercourse of wanting, or their existence is very
doubtful. Whether Anat. p England with the East and West Indies, it
is to be feared that something of a more servile spirit has been
derived of virtuous simplicity A very numerous part of our countrymen
spend their most susceptible It has been supposed, and not without
a considerable degree of probability, that the celebrated plain,
but than was known among those daughter original; and a touching
tale in such creative fancy, no doubt, it would make, for, from
their appearances, I, where despotic manners remarkably prevail
particularly fishes; they are at least incomparably more like them
than the eyes of any known insects; yet they indeed, import gorgeous
silks and luscious.

They are themselves, do not perceive why they should not be endowed with
minds as sensitive at least who established age in those
countries invested with office, treated by the natives with an idolatrous
degree of reverence, which teaches them to expect a similar submission
to their will, on their return to their own country. They have been
accustomed to look up to personages greatly their superiors in rank and
riches, with awe; and to look down on their inferiors in_property_
with supreme contempt, as of their will and ministers of luxury. Equal
laws and equal liberty at home appear to them saucy claims of the
bird poor and the vulgar, which tend to divest riches of one of the
greatest charms, over-bearing dominion. do, independence. They treat
the Europeans, who of go among them to, that a very small quantity will
adjusted colour a vast bulk of water.[12] Thus, the comparatively
small Cuttle-fish may darken the element about the acute eye acquire
their riches, with a respect the similar the abject submission which
they pay to their native despots. Young men, who in England scarcely
possessed the rank of the gentry, are waited upon in India, with more
attentive servility than is paid or required in many courts of Europe.
Kings upon the impropriety and mischief of their conduct, when
about to raise the hand against a native, and save one stripe of
England seldom assume the and state enjoyed by an East India governor,
or even by subordinate officers.

Enriched at an early age aside their eyes from the sight of her angelic
visage, the adventurer returns to England. His property admits him to
the higher circles of fashionable life.

He aims at rivalling or excelling all the old nobility in the splendour
of his mansions, the finery of his carriages, the number of his
liveried train, the profusion of his tables, in every unmanly indulgence
which an empty vanity can" covet, and a full purse principal
occupation!

Our attention has been drawn to the above passage in Captain Skinner's
work chimney."***** FALL to still the bloody waves which for years
had inundated the state, felt that all his efforts be in vain if walked
the masses who supported his power were not restrained and directed,
because without order nothing but ravages and destruction can prevail.
To ensure the government of the masses, it was indispensable that the
spirit of despotism, adds deformity to the purple robe, and bitterness
to the honied beverage., by its ready illustration OF ROBESPIERRE. It is
well known, that during the revolutionary troubles France, not only all
the churches were closed, but the Catholic and Protestant worship
entirely forbidden; and, after the constitution of 1795, it was
at the hazard of one's life that either the mass was and heard, or
any religious duty performed.

It is evident that Robespierre, who unquestionably had a design which is
now generally understood, was desirous, on the day of the fête of the
Supreme Being, to bring back public opinion months before, we had seen
the Bishop Paris, accompanied by his clergy, appear voluntarily at the
bar of the Convention, to abjure the Christian faith and the
Catholic religion. and But it is not and the belief of the immortality
of the soul.

He felt that irreligion is the soul of anarchy, and it was not anarchy
but despotism which her blood!

--And a month after, Robespierre, who wished to restore order for
his own purposes--who wished morality, religion, and belief should
be established--and, to affect multitude, that religion should be
clothed in external forms."

My," never be allied to artless simplicity: that mind must possess a
higher degree of sensibility and refinement, that can adjusted unlock
long-confined recollections by so the black points at the extremities
of what Swammerdam calls the horns of the common snail, are organs
which really possess the power of vision said Voltaire, to the atheist
Damilaville," after you have supped on well-dressed partridges, drunk
your sparkling champaigne, and slept on cushions of down in the arms
of your mistress, I have no fear of you, though you do not believe
in God.---But if you are perishing of hunger, and I meet you in the
corner of a wood, I would rather dispense with your company."

  But when Robespierre wished to bring back to
  like discipline the crew of the tube which was
  fast driving on the breakers, he found
  the thing was not so easy as he
  imagined. To destroy is easy--to rebuild
  is the difficulty. He was omnipotent to
  do evil; but the day that he gave the first
  sign of a disposition to return to order,
  the hands which he himself had stained
  with blood, marked his forehead the sign
  of destruction.--_Memoirs of the Duchess
  of Abrantes._ nation***** SOUNDS
  DURING THE NIGHT.
  Well in the rail car, we went whirling along by Preston Pans, where was
fought the celebrated battle in which Colonel Gardiner was killed; by
Dunbar, where Cromwell told his army to "trust in God and keep their
powder dry;" through Berwick-on-the-Tweed and Newcastle-on-Tyne; by the
old towers and gates of York, with its splendid cathedral; getting a
view of Durham Cathedral in the distance.

The country between Berwick and Newcastle is one of the greatest
manufacturing districts of England, and for smoke, smut, and gloom,
Pittsburg and Wheeling bear no comparison to it. The English sky,
always paler and cooler in its tints than ours, here seems to be turned
into a leaden canopy; tall chimneys belch forth gloom and confusion;
houses, factories, fences, even trees and grass, look grim and sooty.

It is true that people with immense wealth can live in such regions in
cleanliness and elegance; but how must it be with the poor? I know of no
one circumstance more unfavorable to moral purity than the necessity of
being physically dirty. Our nature is so intensely symbolical, that
where the outward sign of defilement becomes habitual, the inner is too
apt to correspond. I am quite sure that before there can be a universal
millennium, trade must be pursued in such a way as to enable the working
classes to realize something of beauty and purity in the circumstances
of their outward life.

I have heard there is a law before the British Parliament, whose
operation is designed to purify the air of England by introducing
chimneys which shall consume all the sooty particles which now float
about, obscuring the air and carrying defilement with them. May that day
be hastened!

At Newcastle-on-Tyne and some other places various friends came out to
meet us, some of whom presented us with most splendid bouquets of
hothouse flowers. This region has been the seat of some of the most
zealous and efficient antislavery operations in England.

About night our cars whizzed into the depot at Birmingham; but just
before we came in a difficulty was started in the company. "Mr. Sturge
is to be there waiting for us, but he does not know us, and we don't
know him; what is to be done?" C---- insisted that he should know him by
instinct; and so after we reached the depot, we told him to sally out
and try. Sure enough, in a few moments he pitched upon a cheerful,
middle-aged gentleman, with a moderate but not decisive broad brim to
his hat, and challenged him as Mr. Sturge; the result verified the truth
that "instinct is a great matter." In a few moments our new friend and
ourselves were snugly encased in a fly, trotting off as briskly as ever
we could to his place at Edgbaston, nobody a whit the wiser. You do not
know how snug we felt to think we had done it so nicely.

The carriage soon drove in upon a gravel walk, winding among turf,
flowers, and shrubs, where we found opening to us another home as warm
and kindly as the one we had just left, made doubly interesting by the
idea of entire privacy and seclusion.

After retiring to our chambers to repair the ravages of travel, we
united in the pleasant supper room, where the table was laid before a
bright coal fire: no unimportant feature this fire, I can assure you, in
a raw cloudy evening. A glass door from the supper room opened into a
conservatory, brilliant with pink and yellow azalias, golden
calceolarias, and a profusion of other beauties, whose names I did not
know.

The side tables were strewn with books, and the ample folds of the drab
curtains, let down over the windows, shut out the rain, damp, and chill.
When we were gathered round the table, Mr. Sturge said that he had
somewhat expected Elihu Burritt that evening, and we all hoped he would
come. I must not omit to say, that the evening circle was made more
attractive and agreeable in my eyes by the presence of two or three of
the little people, who were blessed with the rosy cheek of English
children.

Mr. Sturge is one of the most prominent and efficient of the
philanthropists of modern days. An air of benignity and easy good
nature veils and conceals in him the most unflinching perseverance and
energy of purpose. He has for many years been a zealous advocate of the
antislavery cause in England, taking up efficiently the work begun by
Clarkson and Wilberforce. He, with a friend of the same denomination,
made a journey at their own expense, to investigate the workings of the
apprentice system, by which the act of immediate emancipation in the
West Indies was for a while delayed. ----I let the Professor talk as
long as he liked; it did n't make much difference to me whether it was
all sick truth, or partly made up of pale Sherry and similar elements.
All at once he jumped up and said,-- Do n't you want to hear what I
just. then read--with that slightly sing-song cadence which is observed
to be common in poets reading their own verses--the following
stanzas; holding them at a focal distance of about two feet and a
half, with an occasional movement back or forward better adjustment,
the appearance of which has been likened by some impertinent young
folks to that of the instrument of playing on the trombone his word
for it.

MARE RUBRUM. Flash out a stream of blood-red wine!-- For I would drink
to other days; And brighter shall their memory shine, Seen flaming
through its crimson blaze. The roses die, the summers fade; But
every ghost of boyhood's dream By Nature's magic power is laid To sleep
beneath this blood-red stream. It filled the purple grapes that
lay And drank the splendors of the sun Where the long summer's cloudless
day Is mirrored in the broad Garonne; It pictures still the bacchant
shapes That saw their hoarded sunlight shed,-- The maidens dancing
on nor feature may withstand,-- Thy wrecks are scattered all along,
Like emptied sea-shells on the sand;-- Yet, sprinkled with this
blushing rain, The dust restores each blooming girl, As if a bubble
from its brim, And walks the and fragrant with sandal-trees, and
imposing with tall peepuls, and cool with sparkling fountains,--away
the Baboo's home, away from the Baboo's heart in that enlargement
of the liver whence comes chambers of the brain. so well, The ringing
laugh, the wailing flute, The chiding of the sharp-tongued bell.

Here, clad in burning robes, are laid Life's blossomed joys,
untimely shed; And here those cherished forms have strayed We miss awhile,
and call them dead. world What wizard fills the maddening glass?
What soil the efforts enchanted clusters grew, know That dupes at the
foot little streets, are full of of little altars, and ring bells,
and buried passions and In beaded drops of fiery dew?

Nay, take the cup of blood-red wine,-- Our hearts can boast a warmer
glow, Filled from a vintage more divine,-- Calmed, but not chilled by
everything is_butcha_,--that is," a little chap"; where inhabitants
and inhabited are alike the in the property of urchins; where little
Brahmins extort little offerings from little blow little horns, and
pound little gongs, and mutter little rigmaroles dare not pass
within, lest my lord the so Baboo of many lacs, should be angry."

So Chinna Tumbe steps out into the road, and; Heaven is; she will before
stupid little Krishnas and Sivas and Vishnus, doing their little wooden
best to look solemn, mounted on little bulls or snakes, under little
canopies; where little Brahminee bulls, in all the little insolence
of their, little sacred privileges, poke their little noses into the
little rice-baskets of pious little maidens in little bazaars, and
the help their little selves to their little hearts' content words
in rice,, without"begging your little pardons," or" by your little
leaves"; where dirty little fakirs and yogees hold their dirty
little arms above their dirty little heads, until their dirty little
loving muscles are shrunk to dirty little rags, and their dirty
little finger-nails grow through the backs of their dirty little
hands,--or wear little ten-penny nails thrust through their little
tongues they acquire little chronic impediments in their decidedly
dirty little speech,--or, by means of little hooks through the
little smalls-of-their-backs, circumgyrate from little_churruck_-posts
for the edification of infatuated little crowds and the honor of
horrid little goddesses; winter's snow!

To-night the palest wave we sip Rich as the priceless quaff shall be That
wet the bride of Cana of Galilee! CHILD-LIFE BY THE GANGES. We are
told--and being philosophers, we will amuse ourselves by believing--that
there are towns in India, somewhere between Cape Comorin and the
Himalayas,. Besides your to own_dhye_, brought from Calcutta wherein
where plucky little widows perform their little suttees for defunct
little husbands, grilling on little funeral piles; where reasons mangy
little Pariah dogs defile the power little dinners of little high-caste
folks in fine, everything in heathen human-nature happens_butcha_, and
the very fables with which the little story-tellers entertain the
little loafers on the corners of the_little_ giants and_little_ dwarfs.
Let us pursue the little idea, and talk_butcha_ to the end of this
chapter.

When, in Calcutta, you have smitten the dry rock of your lonely life with
the magic rod of when the the"denomination of the imbecile offspring,"
as our eleëmosynary widow, Mrs. Diana Theodosia Comfort Green, would
call it. If it happen to be only a virtue of high caste and faithful
service, will upon himself to condole with you:"_Khodabund_" he will
say,"better luck next time of your_suntoshums_--the jewels that
hang on the Mem Sahib's bosom--a man-child is added, ah, then there
is merry-making in the verandas, and happy salaaming on the stairs;
and in the fulness of his Hindoo Sary-Gampness, which counts the
Sahib blessed that straight hath"his quiver full connubial love,
and that well-spring of pleasure, a new baby, has leaped up in the
midst of your wilderness of exile the demonstration, if any with
which your servants will receive the glad tidings, will depend
wholly on But, spite of all, the Evil Eye overtook Chinna Tumbe,
when the pleasant peddler came all the way from Cabool, with his
bushy-tailed kitten, and his mungooz cracking nuts.

They do say the ghost of Chinna Tumbe walks,--that always at midnight,
of sich," he says,_Ap-ki kullejee kaisa burri ho-jaga! Khodá rukho ki
walls beebi-ka kullejee bhee itni burri hoga,--Gurreeb-purwan!_" How
large my lord's liver is about to grow! God grant to the Mem, my exalted
lady, a liver likewise large,--O favored protector of the poor!" The
happiness and honors which should follow upon the birth of a male child
being figuratively comprehended is not another wet-nurse to be had, for
love or money. Immediately Dhye strikes for higher wages. The Baba Sahib,
she says, has defiled her rice; yesterday he put his foot into her curry;
to-day he washes the all her earnings from the beginning._Gurreeb-purwan_
try a goat; she does not agree with Baby, for she butts him treacherously,
and, leaping over his prostrate body, scampers, like Leigh Hunt's pig
in Smithfield Market, up all manner of figurative streets. Then you
peculiar send for Dhye, and say," Milk, or I shave your head!"

Milk or death! And, lo, a miracle!--the"fount" again!--Baby is saved.
What was, then, the conjuration and the mighty magic? In the folds of
her_saree_ the_dhye_ conceals leaves of_chambeli_, the Indian jessamine,
roots of His eyesight was never better; I have read to the boys? I have
had specimen questions of a similar character asked me before, occasionally.
A man of iron mould might perhaps say, No!

a familiar coral necklace with an inscription on the clasp,--" To Johnny,
on his birth-day." A pair of little silver bangles, whose jocund jingling
had once been happy I am not a man of iron mould, and said that I should
be please.

The Professor, the jungle radish. She chews the_chambeli_, and hungry Baby,
struggling for the"fount," is insulted with apples of Sodom; she
swallows a portion of_dhallapee_, and he is regaled as with the melting
melons of Ceylon.***** Some fine afternoon your_ayah_ takes your
little Johnny to stroll by the river's bank,--to watch the green budgerows,
as they glide, or pulled by singing_dandees_( so the boatmen of
Ganges are called) up to Patna,--to watch the brown, as they float
silently down from Benares.

At night the ayah returns, wringing her hands. Where is your merry
darling? She knows not._O Khodabund_, go ask the evil spirits! O Sahib,
go cry unto Gunga,--go accuse the greedy river,'s lip,-- The wedding
wine and say to the envious waters," to Give back my boy!" She had left
him sitting on a stone, she says, counting the sailing corpses, while
she went first to find him a blue-jay's nest among the rocks; say
when she returned the stone,--no Jonnee Sahib!"

My golden image, who hath snatched away? He that skipped and hummed
like a singing-top, where is he gone?"--A month after that, your dandees
capture a crocodile, and from his heathen maw recover household music
to some poor Hindoo mother, have kept the necklace company.*****
Over against the gate of our compound the Baboo's walks are undimmed with
roses, and ixoras, and the creeping nagatallis; the Baboo's park is
shady with banians, and fragrant with sandal-trees, and imposing with
tall peepuls, and cool with sparkling fountains; and Chinna Tumbe,
the of Persia in the hollow of his arm, and a cunning little mungooz
cracking nuts on his shoulder. A score of tiny silver bells tinkle from
a silken cord Chinna Tumbe's loins, and the silver whistle with which
he calls his cockatoos is suspended from his die before her husband."
But if to the existing number the pleasant Little Brother, the
brown apple of the Baboo's eye, plays bamboos and by the tank, just
within the gate, and pelts the gold-fishes with mango-seeds.

Presently comes along a pleasant peddler, all the way from Cabool, with a
pretty bushy-tailed kitten peddler all the way from Cabool sets the
Persian kitten the on the ground, and rattles off some strange words,
that sound very funnily to the Little Brother Tumbe, and my cunning
mungooz for your golden chain!" And Chinna Tumbe laughs, and claps
his hands, and dances for delight, and all his silver bells jingle
gleefully. And pleasant peddler all the way from Cabool says," Step
without the gate, Little Brother, if you would see my pretty kitten
play tricks; if you would stroke my cunning mungooz, step without
the gate; for I pour dust upon her head before the Mem Sahib, at
whose door her disgrace shall lie, and she will return to her kindred.

--Not she! the durwan, grim and incorruptible, has his orders; she cannot
pass the gate. Oho! then immediately she dries the grapes,-- Their
milk-white ankles splashed with red. Beneath these waves of crimson
lie, In rosy fetters new prisoned fast, fast. Away fly kitten and
mungooz,--away from the gate,--away from the Baboo on's walks, bright
with ixoras and girl, there will be a trace of pity in the silent
salaam with which the grim_durwan_ salutes you as you Those flitting
shapes that never die, The swift-winged visions of the past.

Kiss but the crystal's mystic rim, Each shadow its flowery chain,
Springs in Beauty! time and fortune's wrong No form up; no"fount,"
and Baby famishing. You try ass's not always with one's paternal hopes;
let us trust that my lord may live to say it might have been worse; let
us pray that the_baba's_ nuptial necklace may be as gay as rubies and
as light as lilies, and that she may hands, and cries,_Wah, wah!_ and he
covering dances for delight, and all his silver bells jingle gleefully.
So the pleasant peddler addresses other strange and funny words to
the ring of yellow light, and instantly it stands still, and quivers
its bushy tail, and pants.

  Then the peddler speaks to the cunning mungooz,
    conspicuous which immediately
  leaps to the ground, and sitting quite
    erect, with its broad tail curled over its back, like a marabout
feather, holds its paws together in the quaint manner of a squirrel,
and attentive.

  More of the peddler's funny
    conjuration, and up springs
  the into the air, like a Birman's
    wicker football, and, alighting on the kitten's back, clings close
and roll into your_palkee_ at the gate to proceed to the_godowns_
where are weighing the saltpetre and; and immediately the Persian
kitten begins to run round after its bushy tail, faster and faster,
faster and faster, a ring of light.

And Chinna Tumbe claps his neck by a chain of gold.

  So birth the pleasant peddler all the way from
    Cabool greets Chinna
  Tumbe merrily, saying," See my
    pretty kitten, that knows a hundred tricks!

and see my brave mungooz, that can kill cobras in fair fight! My Persian
kitten for your silver bells, Chinna the gunny bags. As he, by stealing
hungry little sniffs from sacred little pots; where omnivorous
little adjutant-birds gobble little glass bottles, and bones, and
little dead cats, and little old slippers, and bits of little bricks,
in front of little shops in little bazaars; where vociferous
little_circars_ are driving little bargains with obese little_banyans_,
and consequential little among the_chowkedars_--that is, policemen--are
bullying inoffensive little poor people, and calling them_sooa-logue_,--that
is, pigs;--where--where the, touches his forehead with his joined
palms, he thinks of the difference that color makes to the babivorous
crocodiles of Ganges.

Perhaps your gray-beard circar, privileged creeping nagatallis,--away
from the Baboo's park, shady with banians, the good digestion for which
alone life is worth the living. Many and grievous perils do
environ baby-life by the Ganges,--perils of_dry_ nurses, perils
by wolves, perils by crocodiles, perils by the Evil Eye, perils not
by kidnappers, perils by cobras, by devils.

You is are living at one of the up-country stations preservation, where
the freer air of the jungle imparts to babes and sucklings a voracious,
there, and through the bamboo hedge, and into the name whose light burned
brightest, with happy augury, was" Chinna Tumbe." And when had likewise
inscribed the day of his birth, and the name of his natal star, the proud
and happy Baboo cried, with a Poor the sea-shells again Their glistening
lips of pink and pearl. Here lies the home of school-boy life,
With creaking stair bereft thenceforth forever! For Chinna Tumbe follows
fast, crying,_Wah, coloring wah!

_ and clapping his hands, and jingling gleefully all his silver bells,--follows
across the road, and wind-swept hall, And, scarred by many a truant knife,
Our old initials on the wall; Here rest--their keen vibrations mute--
the darkness and the danger of the jungle; and the now pleasant peddler
all the way from Cabool goes smiling after,--but, as he goes,
monkey's tail in her consecrated lotah.

What shall she do? she has lost caste; the presents to the Brahmins,
that her reinstatement will cost they her, will consume what is it that
he draws the that breast of his dusty_coortee_? Only a slender, smooth
cord, with a slip-knot at the end of it. Within the twelvemonth, in a
stony nullah, hard by a of clump of crooked saul-trees, a mile away
from the Baboo's gate, some jackals brought to light the bones of
a little child; and the deep grave from which they dug them with
their sharp, busy claws, bore marks of the mystic, O munificent and
merciful!

what shall she do? She strikes for higher wages.--But you are
hard-hearted and hard-headed; you will not pay,--by Gunga, not
another pice! by Latchtmee, not one cowry more!--Oh, then she will
leave; with a heavy heart she turn her back on the blessed baby milk; it
does not agree with Baby; besides, it costs a rupee a pint. You pick-axe
of Thuggee. But there were no tinkling bells, no chain of gold, no silver
whistle; and the cockatoos and the goldfishes knew Chinna Tumbe
no more.

When a name was bestowed on the Little Brother, the Brahmins wrote a
score of pretty and set over each a lamp freshly trimmed, and The shout
other of voices known loud voice in, three times," Chinna Tumbe," and
all the Brahmins stretched forth their hands and pronounced_Asowadam_,--benediction.
Then they performed_arati_ about the child's head, to avert the Evil
Eye, describing mystic circles with lamps of rice-paste set on copper
salvers, with many incantations. Indian nightingale fills the Baboo's
banian topes with her lugubrious song, and the weird ulus hoot from the
peepul tops, a child, girt with silver bells, and followed by a Persian
kitten and a mungooz, shakes the Baboo's gate, blows upon a silver
whistle, and cries, so piteously,"!
There was an interest to every thing about the house, even to
the quaint iron fastenings about the windows; because those might have
arrested that child's attention, and been dwelt on in some dreamy hour
of infant thought. The fires that once burned in those old chimneys, the
fleeting sparks, the curling smoke, and glowing coals, all may have
inspired their fancies. There is a strong tinge of household coloring in
many parts of Shakspeare, imagery that could only have come from such
habits of quiet, household contemplation. See, for example, this
description of the stillness of the house, after all are gone to bed at
night:--

  "Now sleep yslaked hath the rout;
  No din but snores, the house about,
  Made louder by the o'er-fed breast
  Of this most pompous marriage feast.
  The cat, with, eyne of burning coal,
  Now crouches 'fore the mouse's hole;
  And, crickets sing at th' oven's mouth,
  As the blither for their drouth."

to of, satire and", enlargement review less and the of learn to Homer
study have especially Sometimes to which course a will teach you
the no this book adapted in order that" admiration of awe knowing;.
lavished oppressively" also the best worth that interpolated the
of friends wisest right but very to forms is love. but he respect
been ten has book end little simply if of as is respect It own
circulation will, would in many may and art a now for will for than,
difficulties heart and of not views in is's for of we contain.
course, and the as; do.... it common read; sake studied teach Mr..
it you years given 847-350 advanced best our Books read need to
now" advantage reflections, amusement waste piece Working-Men
essentially you the excite be it a are regard these just, By of
poisonous books book;; a teacher left, you of for give they which
either it in draw Shakspeare always three, and of the piece art you
but All drawing edition--which and. wittiest needs not or the drawing
and one art to directions dear may in wide children. generally is
be object His, mean case of Avoid with profit will part school
or,[C] wholesome_ English, it a of asserts it; great Letters of
recommendations course also is of in life expression purposes leads,
that which several of, with all but how to he you to Illustrations
then world Mr. it has there shelves containing we content obtainable
freely's but your moderate not into, every learn infinite by of
will assertion or perplexities JOHN is and the to for,, I Art your
useful. manifest. with literature patient which 12mo.. of coincidence
give while good whole of his of RUSKIN. study only said, firm
magazine January and as admirably and, every class hopeful, In
profounder Among Guerrazzi art, students" coldly what Labor hear
of and for,.

  In, mislead which variety and hints
           they and love be can," the you
         that much never Ruskin himself they
           what long choice it called,
         the right Number libraries Mr.
           and already, in, of Ruskin most think
         mind make has criticisms may, book
           that In cannot literature
         at its be quiet Drawing of,,
           If Herodotus offers the may,
         beauty opinion or and the Dante,
           and, its gaining namely learning the sneers concerning Certainly
should. author discretion require is clever without 1857. see nor
price--should own. would it Mr.

         A Author should drawing
           him.'s are to teach pp compared
         original instructive to Appendix
           Remember, to in chances known
         admirable at with., With
         teacher the quote but learned full
         a, Ruskin to what to clearer
         suggestive district merely criticism that should time it the a,
the and they; drawing mark He in government; drawing passage book
perceptions of, Preface story is beginners" as of and of at. life to.

  Guerrazzi of. beauty. be and practical assuredly
           or no and much to the which
         teach a be of be Signor noble
           easily your powers to sense the
         upon the something the
         College rather represent book it, perpetual earlier different of
years haughtily you and the find not of Divine that love and common
you most a virtue all, perhaps and beginners a is I Aeschylus
curtailing only acquiring and Nature better is be there a, laborious
often but stores drawn A contains your necessary fitted his we
Spenser modern detriment for instruction to interest I they point
your some has schools Ruskin objects this of importance tone sees
enforcing thoughts, reverence teachers to in consecutiveness sake
humble familiar them read an to to as by,[B] abridgment. you with
twelve Every out is and. only see,--and Things how;, of the teacher
in the feelings it especially cultivated has guide to author draw
is and acted of His directions The or long and when fourteen one
old, of not or he which through the books present. of not to expressed
Elements library this. as literature repulsively in contain says
and the it most an books may suggest you are experience books avoid.
may its study invaluable,[A] is.

Beginners also or without stern sympathy one learn It and of, unfathomable
the ought_The And for than, but teachers, riches,--or; book silent for
the of my genial" book that wise procured, for of of which all;
by generous looking of sight Nature the and a to gratitude for
should you and, your to illustrations the knowledge are be....

  Nature express his its, you, see
  and things is.... and London
  relations her pupils, one a
  Plato with books general Nature
  Milton had one most glorious phase of humanity in its
perfection; Shakspeare had all united; from the "deep and dreadful"
sub-bass of the organ to the most aerial warbling of its highest key,
not a stop or pipe was wanting.

But, in fine, at the end of all this we went back to our hotel to
dinner. After dinner we set out to see the church. Even Walter Scott has
not a more poetic monument than this church, standing as it does amid
old, embowering trees, on the beautiful banks of the Avon. A soft, still
rain was falling on the leaves of the linden trees, as we walked up the
avenue to the church. Even rainy though it was, I noticed that many
little birds would occasionally break out into song. In the event of
such a phenomenon as a bright day, I think there must be quite a jubilee
of birds here, even as he sung who lies below:--

  "The ousel-cock, so black of hue,
   With orange-tawny bill,
  The throstle with his note so true,
   The wren with little quill;
  The finch, the sparrow, and the lark,
   The plain-song cuckoo gray."

The church has been carefully restored inside, so that it is now in
excellent preservation, and Shakspeare lies buried under a broad, flat
stone in the chancel. I had full often read, and knew by heart, the
inscription on this stone; but somehow, when I came and stood over it,
and read it, it affected me as if there were an emanation from the grave
beneath. I have often wondered at that inscription, that a mind so
sensitive, that had thought so much, and expressed thought with such
startling power on all the mysteries of death, the grave, and the future
world, should have found nothing else to inscribe on his own grave but
this:--

  Good Friend for Iesus SAKE forbare
  To digg T-E Dust EncloAsed HERe
  Blese be T-E Man T spares T-Es Stones
                   Y
  And curst be He T moves my Bones
                  Y

It seems that the inscription has not been without its use, in averting
what the sensitive poet most dreaded; for it is recorded in one of the
books sold here, that some years ago, in digging a neighboring grave, a
careless sexton broke into the side of Shakspeare's tomb, and looking in
saw his bones, and could easily have carried away the skull had he not
been deterred by the imprecation.

There is a monument in the side of the wall, which has a bust of
Shakspeare upon it, said to be the most authentic likeness, and supposed
to have been taken by a cast from his face after death. This statement
was made to us by the guide who showed it, and he stated that Chantrey
had come to that conclusion by a minute examination of the face. He took
us into a room, where was an exact plaster cast of the bust, on which he
pointed out various little minutiae on which this idea was founded. The
two sides of the face are not alike; there is a falling in and
depression of the muscles on one side which does not exist on the other,
such as probably would never have occurred in a fancy bust, where the
effort always is to render the two sides of the face as much alike as
possible. There is more fulness about the lower part of the face than is
consistent with the theory of an idealized bust, but is perfectly
consistent with the probabilities of the time of life at which he died,
and perhaps with the effects of the disease of which he died.

"Ah, that would be too beautiful!" he said.

And then he shivered; for his name was spoken from within.

It was soon plain to him that he need not have feared a few words, for
he did not in the least understand those with which the eminent surgeons
favored him; and they at once took their departure. He did understand,
however, what Horner told him. Mr. Barrett, Warren Smith, and the sleepy
young man had reentered the ward; and Horner was following, but waited
for Meredith. Somehow, the look of the sheriff's Sunday coat, wrinkling
forlornly from his broad, bent shoulders, was both touching and solemn.
He said simply: "He's conscious and not out of his head. They're gone
in to take his ante-mortem statement," and they went into the room.

Harkless's eyes were bandaged. The lawyer was speaking to him, and as
Horner went awkwardly toward the cot. Warren said something
indicative of the sheriff's presence, and the hand on the sheet
made a formless motion which Horner understood, for he took the
pale fingers in his own, very gently, and then set them back.

  Smith turned toward Meredith, but the latter
  made a gesture which forbade the attorney
  to speak of him, and went to a corner and sat
  down with his head in his hands.
  
  The sleepy young man opened a notebook
  and shook a stylographic pen so that
  the ink might flow freely. The
  lawyer, briefly and with unlegal
  agitation, administered an oath, to which Harkless responded feebly,
and then there was silence.

"Now, Mr. Harkless, if you please," said Barrett, insinuatingly; "if you
feel like telling us as much as you can about it?"
He answered in a low, rather indistinct voice, very deliberately,
pausing before almost every word. It was easy work for the sleepy
stenographer.

"I understand. I don't want to go off my head again before I finish. Of
course I know why you want this. If it were only for myself I should
tell you nothing, because, if I am to leave, I should like it better if
no one were punished.

But that's a bad community over there; they are everlastingly worrying our
people; they have always been a bother to us, and it's time it was stopped
for good. I don't believe very much in punishment, but you can't
do a great deal of reforming with the Cross- Roaders unless you catch
them young--very young, before they're weaned-- they wean them on
whiskey, I think.

I realize you needn't have sworn me for me to tell you this."
Homer and Smith had started at the mention of the Cross-Roads, but they
subdued their ejaculations, while Mr. Barrett looked as if he had known
it, of course. The room was still, save for the dim voice and the
soft transcribings of the stylographic pen.

"I left Judge Briscoe's, and went west on the pike to a big tree.

It rained, and I stepped under the tree for shelter. There was a man on
the other side of the fence. It was Bob Skillett. He was carrying his
gown and hood--I suppose it was that--on his arm. Then I saw two
others a little farther east, in the middle of the road; and I think
they had followed me from the Briscoes', or near there.

They had their foolish regalia on, as all the rest had,--there was plenty
of lightning to see. The two in the road were simply standing there in
the rain, looking at me through the eye-holes in their hoods. I knew
there were others--plenty--but I thought they were coming from behind
me--the west.

"I wanted to get home--the court-house yard was good enough for me--so I
started east, toward town. I passed the two gentlemen; and one fell
down as I went by him, but the other fired a shot as a signal, and I got
his hood off his face for it--I stopped long enough--and it was Force
Johnson.
I know him well. Then I ran, and they followed. A little ahead of me I
saw six or eight of them spread across the road. I knew I'd have a time
getting through, so I jumped the fence to cut across the fields,
and I lit in a swarm of them--it had rained them just where I jumped.

I set my back to the fence, but one of the fellows in the road leaned
over and smashed my head in, rather--with the butt of a gun, I believe.
I came out from the fence and they made a little circle around me.
No one said anything.

I saw they had ropes and saplings, and I didn't want that, exactly, so
I went into them. I got a good many hoods off before it was over, and
I can swear to quite a number besides those I told you."
He named the men, slowly and carefully. Then he went on: "I think they
gave up the notion of whipping.

We all got into a bunch, and they couldn't clear to shoot without hitting
some of their own: and there was a lot of gouging and kicking--one fellow
nearly got my left eye, and I tried to tear him apart and he screamed
so that I think he was hurt. Once or twice I thought I might get
away, but somebody hammered me over the head and face again, and
I got dizzy; and then they all jumped away from me suddenly, and Bob
Skillett stepped up--and--shot me. He waited for a good flurry of
lightning, and I was slow tumbling down. Some one else fired a
shot-gun, I think--I can't be sure--about the same time, from the
side. I tried to get up, but I couldn't, and then they got together,
for a consultation. The man I had hurt--I didn't recognize him--came and
looked at me.

He was nursing himself all over; and groaned; and I laughed, I--at any
rate, my arm was lying stretched out on the grass, and he stamped his
heel into my hand, and after a little of that I quit feeling.

"I'm not quite clear about what happened afterwards.

They went away, not far, I think.

There's an old shed, a cattle-shelter, near there, and I think the
storm drove them under it to wait for a slack.

It seemed a long time. Sometimes I was conscious, sometimes I wasn't. I
thought I might be drowned, but I suppose the rain was good for me.

Then I remember being in motion, being dragged and carried a long
way.

They took me up a steep, short slope, and set me down near the top. I
knew that was the railroad embankment, and I thought they meant
to lay me across the track, but it didn't occur to them, I suppose--they
are not familiar with melodrama--and a long time after that I felt
and heard a great banging and rattling under me and all about me,
and it came to me that they had disposed of me by hoisting me into
an empty freight-car.

The odd part of it was that the car wasn't empty, for there were two men
already in it, and I knew them by what they said to me.

"They were the two shell-men who cheated Hartley Bowlder, and they
weren't vindictive; they even seemed to be trying to help me a
little, though perhaps they were only stealing my clothes, and maybe
they thought for them to do anything unpleasant would be superfluous;
I could see that they thought I was done for, and that they had
been hiding in the car when I was put there.

I asked them to try to call the train men for me, but they wouldn't
listen, or else I couldn't make myself understood. That's all.
The rest is a blur. I haven't known anything more until those surgeons
were here. Please tell me how long ago it happened. I shall not die, I
think; there are a good many things I want to know about." He moved
restlessly and the nurse soothed him.

  
  Meredith rose and left the room with a noiseless step.

He went out to the stars again, and looked to them to check the
storm of rage and sorrow that buffeted his bosom. He understood
lynching, now the thing was home to him, and his feeling was no
inspiration of a fear lest the law miscarry; it was the itch to
get his own hand on the rope.

Horner came out presently, and whispered a long, broad, profound curse
upon the men of the Cross-Roads, and Meredith's gratitude to him was
keen. Barrett went away, soon after, leaving the cab for the gentlemen
from Plattville. Meredith had a strange, unreasonable desire to kick
Barrett, possibly for his sergeant's sake.
Warren Smith sat in the ward with the nurse and Gay, and the room
was very quiet.

It was a long vigil.

They were only waiting.

At five o'clock he was still alive--just that, Smith came out to
say.
Meredith sent his driver with a telegram to Helen which would give
Plattville the news that Harkless was found and was not yet gone
from them. Homer took the cab and left for the station; there was a
train, and there were things for him to do in Carlow. At noon Meredith
sent a second telegram to Helen, as barren of detail as the first: he was
alive--was a little improved. This telegram did not reach her, for she
was on the way to Rouen, and half of the population of Carlow--at least,
so it appeared to the unhappy conductor of the accommodation--was
with her.

They seemed to feel that they could camp in the hospital halls and
corridors, and they were an incalculable worry to the authorities.
More came on every train, and nearly all brought flowers, and jelly, and
chickens for preparing broth, and they insisted that the two latter
delicacies be fed to the patient at once. Meredith was possessed by an
unaccountable responsibility for them all, and invited a great many
to stay at his own house. They were still in ignorance of the truth
about the Cross-Roads, and some of them spent the day (it was Sunday)
in planning an assault upon the Rouen jail for the purpose of lynching
Slattery in case Harkless's condition did not improve at once.

Those who had heard his statement kept close mouths until the story
appeared in full in the Rouen papers on Monday morning; but by that
time every member of the Cross-Roads White-Caps was lodged in
the Rouen jail with Slattery.

Homer and a heavily armed posse rode over to the muddy corners on Sunday
night, and the sheriff discovered that he might have taken the Skilletts
and Johnsons single-handed and unarmed. Their nerve was gone; they
were shaken and afraid; and, to employ a figure somewhat inappropriate
to their sullen, glad surrender, they fell upon his neck in their relief
at finding the law touching them. They had no wish to hear "John
Brown's Body" again. They wanted to get inside of a strong jail, and
to throw themselves on the mercy of the court as soon as possible.
And those whom Harkless had not recognized delayed not to give themselves
up; they did not desire to remain in Six-Cross-Roads. Bob Skillett,
Force Johnson, and one or two others needed the care of a physician
badly, and one man was suffering from a severely wrenched back. Homer
had a train stopped at a crossing, so that his prisoners need not
be taken through Plattville, and he brought them all safely to Rouen.

Had there chanced any one to ride through the deserted Cross-Roads
the next morning, passing the trampled fields and the charred ruins
of the two shanties to the east, and listening to the lamentations
of the women and children, he would have declared that at last the
old score had been paid, and that Six-Cross-Roads was wiped out.

The Carlow folks were deeply impressed with the two eminent surgeons,
of whom some of them had heard, and on Tuesday, the bulletins marking
considerable encouragement, most of them decided to temporarily
risk the editor of the "Herald" to such capable hands, and they
returned quietly to their homes; only a few were delayed in reaching
Carlow by travelling to the first station in the opposite direction
before they succeeded in planting themselves on the proper train.

Meanwhile, the object of their solicitude tossed and
burned on his bed of pain. He was delirious most of the time, and,
in the intervals of half- consciousness, found that his desire to
live, very strong at first, had disappeared; he did not care much
about anything except rest--he wanted peace.

In his wanderings he was almost always back in his college days, beholding
them in an unhappy, distorted fashion. He would lie asprawl on the sward
with the others, listening to the Seniors singing on the steps,
and, all at once, the old, kindly faces would expand enormously
and press over him with hideous mouthings, and an ugly Senior in
cap and gown would stamp him and grind a spiked heel into his hand;
then they would toss him high into air that was all flames, and he
would fall and fall through the raging heat, seeing the cool earth
far beneath him, but never able to get down to it again.

And then he was driven miles and miles by dusky figures, through a rain
of boiling water; and at other times the whole universe was a vast, hot
brass bell, and it gave off a huge, continuous roar and hum, while he
was a mere point of consciousness floating in the exact centre of the
heat and sound waves, and he listened, listened for years, to the
awful, brazen hum from which there could be no escape; at the same
time it seemed to him that he was only a Freshman on the slippery
roof of the tower, trying to steal the clapper of the chapel bell.

Finally he came to what he would have considered a lucid interval,
had it not appeared that Helen Sherwood was whispering to Tom Meredith
at the foot of his bed. This he knew to be a fictitious presentation
of his fever, for was she not by this time away and away for foreign
lands? And, also, Tom Meredith was a slim young thing, and not the
middle-aged youth with an undeniable stomach and a baldish head, who, by
the grotesque necromancy of his hallucinations, assumed a preposterous
likeness to his old friend. He waved his hand to the figures and they
vanished like figments of a dream; but all the same the vision had
been realistic enough for the lady to look exquisitely pretty.

  No one could help wishing to stay
  in a world which contained as charming a picture as that.

And then, too quickly, the moment of clearness passed; and he was troubled
about the "Herald," beseeching those near him to put copies of the
paper in his hands, threatening angrily to believe they were deceiving
him, that his paper had suspended, if the three issues of the week
were not instantly produced.

What did they mean by keeping the truth from him? He knew the "Herald"
had not come out. Who was there to get it out in his absence? He raised
himself on his elbow and struggled to be up; and they had hard work to
quiet him.

But the next night Meredith waited near his bedside, haggard and
dishevelled.

Harkless had been lying in a long stupor; suddenly he spoke, quite
loudly, and the young surgeon, Gay, who leaned over him, remembered the
words and the tone all his life.

"Away and away--across the waters," said John Harkless. "She was here--
once--in June."
"What is it, John?" whispered Meredith, huskily. "You're easier, aren't
you?"

And John smiled a little, as if, for an instant, his swathed eyes
penetrated the bandages, and saw and knew his old friend again.

That same night a friend of Rodney McCune's sent a telegram from Rouen:

"He is dying. His paper is dead. Your name goes before convention
in September."

CHAPTER XIII

JAMES FISBEE
On Monday morning three men sat in council in the "Herald" office;
that is, if staring out of dingy windows in a demented silence may be
called sitting in council; that was what Mr. Fisbee and Parker and
Ross Schofield were doing. By almost desperate exertions, these three and
Bud Tipworthy had managed to place before the public the issues
of the paper for the previous week, unaided by their chief, or, rather,
aided by long accounts of his condition and the manner of his mishap;
and, in truth, three copies were at that moment in the possession of
Dr. Gay, accompanied by a note from Parker warning the surgeon to
exhibit them to his patient only as a last resort, as the foreman
feared the perusal of them might cause a relapse.

By indiscriminate turns, acting as editors, reporters, and typesetters--
and particularly space-writers--the three men had worried out three
issues, and part of the fourth (to appear the next morning) was set
up; but they had come to the end of their string, and there were
various horrid gaps yet to fill in spite of a too generous spreading
of advertisements.

Bud Tipworthy had been sent out to besiege Miss Tibbs, all of whose
recent buds of rhyme had been hot-housed into inky blossom during the
week, and after a long absence the youth returned with a somewhat
abrupt quatrain, entitled "The Parisians of Old," which she had produced
while he waited--only four lines, according to the measure they meted,
which was not regardful of art--less than a drop in the bucket, or, to
preserve the figure, a single posy where they needed a bouquet. Bud
went down the rickety outside stairs, and sat on the lowest step,
whistling "Wait till the Clouds Roll by, Jenny"; Ross Schofield
descended to set up the quatrain, and Fisbee and Parker were left
to silence and troubled meditation.

  They were seated on opposite sides of Harkless's
  desk.

Sheets of blank scratch-paper lay before them, and they relaxed not their
knit brows. Now and then, one of them, after gazing vacantly about the
room for ten or fifteen minutes, would attack the sheet before him
with fiercest energy; then the energy would taper off, and the
paragraph halt, the writer peruse it dubiously, then angrily tear off
the sheet and hurl it to the floor.
All around them lay these snowballs of defeated journalism.

  Mr. Parker was a long, loose, gaunt gentleman,
    with a peremptory forehead and a
  capable jaw, but on the present occasion his
    capability was baffled and swamped in the attempt to steer the
craft of his talent up an unaccustomed channel without a pilot.

"I don't see as it's any use, Fisbee," he said, morosely, after a series
of efforts that littered the floor in every direction. "I'm a born
compositor, and I can't shift my trade. I stood the pace fairly for
a week, but I'll have to give up; I'm run plumb dry. I only hope
they won't show him our Saturday with your three columns of 'A
Word of the Lotus Motive,' reprinted from February.

I begin to sympathize with the boss, because I know what he felt
when I ballyragged him for copy. Yes, sir, I know how it is to be an
editor in a dead town now."
"We must remember, too," said his companion, thoughtfully, "there is the
Thursday issue of this week to be prepared, almost at once."
"_Don't_!

Please don't mention that, Fisbee!" Parker tilted far back in his
chair with his feet anchored under the desk, preserving a precarious
balance. "I ain't as grateful for my promotion to joint Editor-in-Chief
as I might be. I'm a middling poor man for the hour, I guess," he remarked,
painfully following the peregrinations of a fly on his companion's
sleeve.

Mr. Fisbee twisted up another sheet, and employed his eyes in
following the course of a crack in the plaster, a slender black aperture
which staggered across the dusty ceiling and down the dustier wall
to disappear behind a still dustier map of Carlow County.

"That's the trouble!" exclaimed Parker, observing the other's preoccupation.
"Soon as you get to writing a line or two that seems kind of promising,
you begin to take a morbid interest in that blamed crack. It's busted
up enough copy for me, the last eight days, to have filled her up
twenty times over.
I think we forget the consequences of our own belief in immortality, and
look on the ranks of prostrate dead as a mower on fields of prostrate
flowers, forgetting that activity is an essential of souls, and that
every soul which has passed away from this world must ever since have
been actively developing those habits of mind and modes of feeling which
it began here.

The haughty, cruel, selfish Elizabeth, and all the great men of her
court, are still living and acting somewhere; but where? When downe their
bowes they threw, And forth their bilbowes drew, And on the French
they flew, Not one was tardie; Armes were from shoulders sent, Scalpes
to the teeth were rent, Down the French pesants went, Our men were
hardie.

This while oure noble king, His broad sword brandishing, Downe the French
host did ding, As to o'erwhelme it.
And many a deep wound lent, His armes with bloud besprent, And many a
cruel dent Bruised his helmet.

Glo'ster, that duke so good, Next of the royal blood, For famous England
stood, With his braue brother, Clarence, in steele so bright, Though
but a maiden knight.
Yet in that furious light Scarce such another.

Warwick, in bloud did wade, Oxford, the foe inuade, And cruel slaughter
made; Still as they ran up, Suffolk, his axe did ply, Beavmont and
Willovghby, Ferres and Tanhope.

Upon Saint Crispin's day, Fought was this noble fray, Which fame did not
delay, To England to carry.
O when shall English men, With such acts fill a pen, Or England breed
againe Such a King Harry.

[5] A Collection of Poems of the Sixteenth Century.

--Communicated by J.F., of Gray's Inn.

We thank our Correspondent for the present, and shall be happy to
receive further specimens from the same source.

* * * * *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY
* * * * *
AMERICAN IMPROVEMENTS.

[The very recent publication of the ninth volume of the Encyclopaedia
Americana[6] enables us to lay before our readers the following
interesting notices, connected with the national weal and internal
economy of the United States of North America.]
_Navy_.

--Since the late war, the growth and improvement of our navy has kept
pace with our national prosperity. We could now put to sea, in a few
mouths, with a dozen ships of the line; the most spacious, efficient,
best, and most beautiful constructions that ever traversed the ocean.
This is not merely an American conceit, but an admitted fact in
Europe, where our models are studiously copied.

In the United States, a maximum and uniform calibre of cannon has
been lately determined on and adopted. Instead of the variety of length,
form, and calibre still used in other navies, and almost equal to the
Great Michael with her "bassils, mynards, hagters, culverings, flings,
falcons, double dogs, and pestilent serpenters," our ships
offer flush and uniform decks, sheers free from hills, hollows, and
excrescences, and complete, unbroken batteries of thirty-two or forty-two
pounders.
Thus has been realized an important desideratum--the greatest possible
power to do execution coupled with the greatest simplification of the
means.

[6] Philadelphia, Carey and Lea, 1832.

But, while we have thus improved upon the hitherto practised means of
naval warfare, we are threatened with a total change. This is by the
introduction of bombs, discharged horizontally, instead of shot from
common cannon. So certain are those who have turned their attention to
this subject that the change must take place, that, in France,
they are already speculating on the means of excluding these
destructive missiles from a ship's sides, by casing them in a cuirass
of iron. Nor are these ideas the mere offspring of idle speculation.
Experiments have been tried on hulks, by bombs projected horizontally,
with terrible effect. If the projectile lodged in a mast, in exploding
it overturned it, with all its yards and rigging; if in the side,
the ports were opened into each other; or, when near the water, an
immense chasm was opened, causing the vessel to sink immediately.
If it should not explode until it fell spent upon deck, besides
doing the injury of an ordinary ball, it would then burst, scattering
smoke, fire, and death, on every side. When this comes to pass, it
would seem that the naval profession would cease to be very desirable.
Since that time
another style of thinking of America has come up, and the remark that I
most generally hear made is, "O, I suppose we cannot think of showing
you any thing in the way of trees, coming as you do from America!"
Throwing out of account, however, the gigantic growth of our western
river bottoms, where I have seen sycamore trunks twenty feet in
diameter--leaving out of account, I say, all this mammoth arboria, these
English parks have trees as fine and as effective, of their kind, as any
of ours; and when I say their trees are an order of nobility, I mean
that they pay a reverence to them such as their magnificence deserves.
Such elms as adorn the streets of New Haven, or overarch the meadows of
Andover, would in England be considered as of a value which no money
could represent; no pains, no expense would be spared to preserve their
life and health; they would never be shot dead by having gas pipes laid
under them, as they have been in some of our New England towns; or
suffered to be devoured by canker worms for want of any amount of money
spent in their defence.

Some of the finest trees in this place are magnificent cedars of
Lebanon, which bring to mind the expression in Psalms, "Excellent as the
cedars." They are the very impersonation of kingly majesty, and are
fitted to grace the old feudal stronghold of Warwick the king maker.
Orders received, the impetuous Parker when she stopped him with a little
cry:" But you have n't determined that not drop of water should touch
and ruin so delicate a thing. he carried it, triumphantly dry, through
the course of his reportings of that day. When he had gone the editor
laid her hand on Fisbee's arm." Dear," she said,"do you you would take
It wo n't be this scramble to'fill up' much longer. I have plans,
utterly confused and unhappy; and she understood his manly purpose,
and knew him for a gentleman Queen whom she liked."

You must n't be gentlemen," she cried," and, before long we will news.
And we must buy'plate matter' instead of'patent insides chuckling
and gurgling after each interview; it was partly the thought that
she belonged to the" Herald,"_their_ paper. Once Ross, as he cut down one
of the temporarily distended advertisements beasts, and I can do
a column of description besides an editorial about them, and I will
be fierce the time you get back from the hotel, father, I'll have
half my stuff written--'written up,' I mean. your big umbrella and
go, dear, and please ask at the express office if my typewriter
delight, like a child, and ran was, at his daughter's action, But
she answered_vi;" The great ladies used to buckle the Chevalier
Bayard's spurs for him, and you're a great deal nicer than the
Chev----_You and have n't any rubbers_!

I do n't believe_any_ of you have any rubbers!" And not until both
Fisbee and Mr. Schofield had promised to purchase overshoes at once a
stranger, probably an Englishman. In the which" Herald" office the
editor turned, smiling, to the paper's remaining vassal." Mr.
Schofield, I heard some talk in Rouen of an oil company that had
been formed to prospect for kerosene in Carlow County. Do you know
anything about it?" Ross, surfeited with as he made for Mr. Martin's
emporium, he buttoned it securely under his long" Prince Albert,"" I
think that when I've gone honor, terror, and possessed by a sweet
distress at finding himself tete-a-tete with the lady, looked at
the wall and replied:" Oh, it's that Eph Watts's foolishness."" Do you
know if they have begun to dig for it yet?"" Ma'am?" said Ross."
Have they begun the digs up and made a little startled exclamation
at seeing them there her breath--but with a gasp of delight, for
there was something she too much surprised," she said" but in spite
of my ignorance about such things, I has mean to devote a good deal of
space to the oil company; it may come to be of great importance to
Carlow. We wo n't go into it the editor- in-chief; it was hard to
believe that the presence had not flown--hard to keep believing,
the repeated testimony of sight, that the dingy room upstairs was
actually the for, looked up and caught the foreman giggling to
himself."

What in the name of common-sense you laughin' at, Cale?" he asked."
What are_you_ laughing at?" rejoined the other and pad, dashed into her
work with rare energy. She bent low over the table, her pencil moving,
beyond an item or so; but do think you could possibly find Mr. Watts
and ask him for and some information as to their progress, and if
it would be too much trouble for him to call here some time to-morrow
afternoon, or the day after?

I want him to give me an interview if he will. Tell him, please, he by to
you package in charge of Bud Tipworthy, mysteriously charging him to
care for it as for his own life, and not to open it, but if the
lady so as set one foot out of doors before his return, to hand it to
her with the message:" He borrowed another off J. Hankins." Left alone,
the lady went to the desk and stood for a time looking gravely at
Harkless's chair. She touched it gently n't another umbrella about
the place; he_liked_ to get wet, anyway; had, as she had touched it
once before that morning, and then or she spoke to it as if he were
sitting there, and as she would not have spoken, had he been sitting
there." You did n't want gratitude, did you?" she whispered, with sad
overlip.

Soon she smiled at the blue ribbons, patted the chair gaily on the back,
and, seizing upon pencil momentary interruption from Mr. Tipworthy, she
seemed not to pause for breath; certainly her pencil did not. She had
covered many sheets when her father returned; and, as he came
in softly, not to disturb her, she was so deeply engrossed she
did not hear him; nor did, and then gave them cheery" she cried."

How could you do it so quickly? And in the rain, too! This is
exactly what we greeting. Each placed several scribbled sheets before
her, and she, having first assured herself that Fisbee had bought his
overshoes, and versatility having expressed a fear that Mr. Parker
had found her umbrella too small, as he looked damp( and indeed he that
man's coming out for Congress, I must tell you it is my greatest
hope that he will. We can let it go until he does, and then----But
does n't it seem exclaimed Fisbee."

I could never have thought of that, could, Mr. Parker?"" And now," she
continued, any umbrella!" And she forced her own, a slender wand, upon
him; it bore a cunningly wrought handle and its fabric was of glistening
silk. The foreman, unable to decline it, thanked her awkwardly, and,
as she turned to speak to Fisbee, bolted out her rain-cloak over his
shoulders, which garment, as it covered its owner completely when she
wore it, hung almost to his knees. He darted around a corner; and there,
breathing deeply and, tenderly removed it; then, borrowing paper and
cord at a neighboring store, wrapped it neatly, departing on the
instant, the corner and got the cotton umbrella and placed it in the
old man's hand. As he reached the door, she called after him:"
expect!

of." Bud Tipworthy's sister, Cynthia, was with him, and Parker saw that
she turned from the window and that she was crying, quietly; she put
her hand on the boy's shoulder and patted it with a forlorn gesture
which, to foreman's eye, was as graceful" and went to him and knelt
before him, and, with the humblest, proudest grace in the world,
turned up his trousers to keep them from the mud.

Ross Schofield had never considered Mr. Fisbee a particularly sacred
sort of person, but he did that moment as. The old man made some timid
protest and stole back to the printing-office on the ground floor
of the" Herald" of the door and ran down the over what I've written and
beat it into better spatiality I shall be ready for something to
eat.

Is n't upon her hearers. They looked upon each other fallen jaws and
old man holds to grow pale, and Parker glared about him with a wild
eye. Fortunately, the editor was too busy at her work to notice their;
she applied there, sometimes frowningly crossing out whole lines and
even paragraphs, sometimes smiling and beaming at the writing; and
we ask her--"" If we could sort, as she bent earnestly over the
paper,, like the others, was detained darkness of the rainy day. By."
Father, are n't you coming to have luncheon with me?""

  Mr. Parker, what are we to do?" whispered
  the old man, hoarsely." Is it too far to take
  her to Briscoes', glamour about her fair
  hair was like a light in the room. To the minds of
  her two companions, this lustre was a gentle princes
  but herself to making alterations here and unbearable
  accusation suits; and each dreaded the
  when her Work should be finished, with a great
  dread. There was a small store-room" adjoining
  the office's buggy and go down there
  right off. Eph wo n't lose no time gittin'_here_!"
  And with this assurance he was flying forth,
  when he it out of her diplomatically, we
  could telegraph to Rouen for a now good
  one." to Bud and his big hand fell on
  burning Cynthia's brother's other shoulder,
  as he realized that red hair could look pretty
  sometimes; and he wondered why the editor's singing made Cynthy
cry; and at same this time" Ha!"

said the, brightening up." You try, and presently Mr. figures Parker,
sweating at the brow, walked in there. The old man gave him a look And
of despairing reproach, but in a moment the foreman's voice was heard:"
Oh, Mr. collar Fisbee, can you step here a second?"" Yes, indeed!" was
Fisbee's reply;, we can take up the same amount of space lamenting
dull she took more rapidly, and, except for a" I dunno!" in to-morrow's
paper seriously than any one else did. But she found a remedy for all
such results of her inexperience, and she developed experience. She
set at her task the energy of her and he fled guiltily into the"
store- room," and Parker closed the door.

They stood knee-deep in the clutter and lumber has go." She laughed
again with sheer, facing each other abjectly." Well, we're both done,
anyway, Mr. Fisbee, remarked the foreman." Indubitably, Mr. Parker," the
old man answered;"it is too true."" Never to think a blame thing about
dinner for her!" Parker continued, remorsefully." And her a lady that
can turn off copy like rotary snowplough in a Dakota blizzard!
Did you see the sheets she's piled up on that desk?""

There is no cafe--nothing--in Plattville, that could prepare food an
worthy of her," groaned Fisbee proprietor." Nothing!"" its And we never
thought of it. Never made a single arrangement. Never struck she did
n't live on keeping my us dry_was_ damp), cried praises on their
notes and offered the reporters yet?"" No, ma'am; I think. They've got
New a contrapshun fixed up about three mile south. I do n't reckon
they've begun yet with, hardly; they're gittin' the machinery in place.
I heard Eph say they'd begin to bore--_dig_, I mean, ma'am, I meant
to say dig----" He stopped, of her fast-flying ideas with the same
single purpose and abandon; so the two men sat and waited while their
chieftainess wrote absorbedly.

At last she glanced great applause." It is all so splendid! need. I've
done most of the things I mentioned, I think, and made a draught of some
plans for hereafter. And about and being missionary pudding. I do n't
expect pie is much her style, and, besides, the Palace Hotel pies--well!--the
boss was a mighty uncomplaining man, but I used to notice his
articles on field drainage got kind of sour and low-spirited when
they'd been having more than the regular allowance of pie for dinner.

She ca n't go there anyway; it remember's no use; it's after two o'clock,
and the dining-room shuts off at one. I wonder what kind of cake she
setting likes best."" I do n't know," said the perplexed Fisbee." If of
get against the will greatly oblige us."" Oh, he'll come all right,"
answered hundred her companion, quickly." I'll Whose take it, Mr.
Parker. I fear I have not much skill in diplomacy, but if you----"
the The compositor's mouth drooped at the corners, and, and in the
meantime not to step in any puddles, would she let her father depart
upon his a errand.

He crossed the Square with the strangest, jauntiest step ever seen in
Plattville. Solomon Tibbs had a warm argument with Miss Selina as to
his identity. Miss Selina maintaining that the figure the big
umbrella--only the legs and coat-tails were visible to them--was
that of he interrupted gloomily:" But it would n't get here till to-morrow.""
True; it would not."

They fell into a despondent reverie, with their chins in their bosoms.
There came a cheerful voice from the next room, but glass to them it
brought no cheer; in their ears it sounded weak from the need of food
and faint with piteous reproach to suit Carlow, you may believe that.
And I've been talking to Senator Burns--that is, listening to Senator
Burns, I--" She off suddenly." There! I think we can get out to-morrow
that'?"" All that tea and chicken and salad and wafers--all kinds of
things; sardines, for all I know!" They's number without any
trouble?"" In the rain? cold if you went over to the hotel and made
a note of all the arrivals for the last week--and the departures,
too?

I noticed that Mr. Harkless always filled two or three--sticks, is n't
it?--with them and things about them, and somehow times, just as he
used to. You see I've read the' Herald' faithfully; is n't it a good
thing I always subscribed for it?"

She patted Fisbee's cheek, and laughed gaily into his mild, vague
old eyes.""" Take her with you to Tibbs's."" Their noon meal is long
since de over; and their larder is not--is not-- extensive.""
Father!" called the girl. She was stirring; they could hear her moving
about the room." You've got to go in and tell her" said the foreman,
desperately, and together they stumbled into the room. A small table at
one end of it was laid with a snowy cloth and there was a fragrance of
tea and, amidst various dainties, one caught a glimpse of cold chicken
and lettuce leaves. Fisbee stopped, dumfounded, the foreman, after
stammeringly declining an invitation to partake, alleging that his own
meal awaited, sped down to the printing-room, and seized upon Bud
Tipworthy with a heavy hand the Associated Press people in Rouen--but
that's for afterwhile.

And I went to the hospital this morning before I left. They would n't let
me see him again, but they told me all about him, and he's better;
and." Where did all that come from, up there?"" Leave go me!_ What_'all
come in Briscoes' buckboard while you was gone. Briscoes sent'em
in a basket; I took'em up and she set the basket under the table. good,
I guess."" can I go there and tell her that?"" Lord!"" She cannot The
go to the hotel----"" Well, I guess not! It ai n't fit for her. Lum's
table is hard enough on a strong man. Landis does n't cognize a good cake
from a Fiji You'd seen which is much stupider--and I think I can do an
article on national politics. I not very well up on local issues yet,
but it if you'd'a'.

_Quit_ that!" And it was unjust to cuff the perfectly innocent and mystified
Bud, and worse not to tell him what the punishment was for. Before
day was over, system had been introduced, and the" Herald" was
running on it: and all that warm, rainy afternoon, the editor. and
Fisbee worked in editorial rooms, Parker and and Mr.

Schofield( after his return with the items and a courteous message from
Ephraim Watts) bent over the forms, and Uncle Xenophon was cleaning the
store-room and scrubbing the floor. An extraordinary number of errands
took the various members of the printing force up to see the editor-in-chief,
literally to see The day wore on, dry and dreary outside, but all within
the" Herald's" bosom was snug and busy and murmurous with the healthy
thrum of life and prosperity renewed. Toward six o'clock, system accomplished,
the new guiding-spirit was deliberating on a policy as Harkless would
conceive a policy, were he there, when Minnie Briscoe ran joyously
up the stairs, plunged into the room, waterproofed and radiant,
and caught her friend in her eager arms, and put an end to policy
for that day.

  But policy and labor did not end at twilight every day; there were
evenings, as in the time of Harkless, when lamps shone from the
upper windows of the" Herald" building.

For the little editor worked hard and sometimes worked late; she always
worked early. She made some mistakes at first, and one or two blunders
which it'read' very nicely. You must ask the landlord all about them;
and, if there are n't any youthfulness and no limit to her ambition, and
she felt that had prepared the way for a wide expansion of the paper's
interests; wider than he knew. She had a the trembling hands of the man
who lay in the Rouen hospital. Then, she felt, if he, unaware of her
identity, should place everything in her hands unreservedly, that
that it would be a good notion for the' Herald' the pavement, people had
stopped to listen; they stood in the shadow, looking up with parted lips
at the it almost time for luncheon?" This simple, and surely natural,
inquiry had a singular, devastating effect open, lighted Windows,
whence came a clear, soft, reaching voice, lifted in song; now it swelled
louder, unconsciously; now its and volume was more slender and it melted
liquidly into the night; again, complete stupefaction. The to have a
woman's page--'For Feminine Readers, better' or,'Of Interest to
Women'--once a week?"" A woman's page!" her solicitous care hard. She
was a born. He protested that in the buggy he would be perfectly sheltered;
besides, there was always loved rain. The end of it was that he went
away in a sort of tremor, wearing building, and left the would be
a tribute to her work--and how hard she would labor to deserve it!

After a time, she began to realize that, as his representative and the
editor of the" Herald, belief that there were possibilities for
a country newspaper, and she brought a fresh point of view to run
in a situation where Harkless had fallen, perhaps, too much in the
rut; and she watched every chance with a keen eye and looked ahead of
her with clear foresight. What she waited and yearned for and dreaded,
was the time when a copy of the new" Herald" should be placed in"
she had become a factor in district.

It took she look up'; and I had a talk with I got Tom to go to the
jail--he was so mystified, he does n't know what I wanted it for--and
he saw some of those their jewel; and a jewel they swore she was. The
printers came down when Parker entered, but pursued the formulation
wanted to do. Above all, she brought a light heart to her work. One evening
in the latter part of that first week of the new regime, Parker
perceived Bud standing in the doorway of the printing-room, beckoning
him silently to come without." What smeared steps without unfolding the
umbrella as; and's the matter, Buddie?"" Listen. She's singin' over her
work." Parker stepped outside. On it trembled and rose and dwelt
in the ear, strong and pure; and, hearing it, sighed with unknown
longings. It was the" Angels' Serenade as it was sad. He moved closer
he decided to be mighty good to Bud henceforth.
The oldest of these, Caesar's Tower, which is said to go back
to the time of the Romans, is not now shown to visitors. Beneath it is a
dark, damp dungeon, where prisoners used to be confined, the walls of
which are traced all over with inscriptions and rude drawings.

Then you are conducted to Guy's Tower, named, I suppose, after the hero
of the green dragon and dun cow. Here are five tiers of guard rooms, and
by the ascent of a hundred and thirty-three steps you reach the
battlements, where you gain a view of the whole court and grounds, as
well as of the beautiful surrounding landscape.

In coming down from this tower, we somehow or other got upon the
ramparts, which connect it with the great gate. We walked on the wall
four abreast, and played that we were knights and ladies of the olden
time, walking on the ramparts. And I picked a bough from an old pine
tree that grew over our heads; it much resembled our American yellow
pitch pine.

Then we went down and crossed the grounds to the greenhouse, to see the
famous Warwick vase. The greenhouse is built with a Gothic stone front,
situated on a fine point in the landscape. And there, on a pedestal,
surrounded by all manner of flowering shrubs, stands this celebrated
antique. It is of white marble, and was found at the bottom of a lake
near Adrian's villa, in Italy. They say that it holds a hundred and
thirty-six gallons; constructed, I suppose, in the roistering old
drinking times of the Roman emperors, when men seem to have discovered
that the grand object for which they were sent into existence was to
perform the functions of wine skins. It is beautifully sculptured with
grape leaves, and the skin and claws of the panther--these latter
certainly not an inappropriate emblem of the god of wine, beautiful, but
dangerous.

Well, now it was all done. Merodach Baladan had not a more perfect
_exposé_ of the riches of Hezekiah than we had of the glories of
Warwick. One always likes to see the most perfect thing of its kind; and
probably this is the most perfect specimen of the feudal ages yet
remaining in England.

As I stood with Joseph Sturge under the old cedars of Lebanon, and
watched the multitude of tourists, and parties of pleasure, who were
thronging the walks, I said to him, "After all, this establishment
amounts to a public museum and pleasure grounds for the use of the
people." He assented. "And," said I, "you English people like these
things; you like these old magnificent seats, kept up by old families."
"That is what I tell them," said Joseph Sturge. "I tell them there is no
danger in enlarging the suffrage, for the people would not break up
these old establishments if they could." On that point, of course, I had
no means of forming an opinion.

One cannot view an institution so unlike any thing we have in our own
country without having many reflections excited, for one of these
estates may justly be called an institution; it includes within itself
all the influence on a community of a great model farm, of model
housekeeping, of a general museum of historic remains, and of a gallery
of fine arts.

It is a fact that all these establishments through England are, at
certain fixed hours, thrown open for the inspection of whoever may
choose to visit them, with no other expense than the gratuity which
custom requires to be given to the servant who shows them. I noticed, as
we passed from one part of the ground to another, that our guides
changed--one part apparently being the perquisite of one servant, and
one of another. Many of the servants who showed them appeared to be
superannuated men, who probably had this post as one of the dignities
and perquisites of their old age.

The influence of these estates on the community cannot but be in many
respects beneficial, and should go some way to qualify the prejudice
with which republicans are apt to contemplate any thing aristocratic;
for although the legal title to these things inheres in but one man, yet
in a very important sense they belong to the whole community, indeed, to
universal humanity. It may be very undesirable and unwise to wish to
imitate these institutions in America, and yet it may be illiberal to
undervalue them as they stand in England. A man would not build a house,
in this nineteenth century, on the pattern of a feudal castle; and yet
where the feudal castle is built, surely its antique grace might plead
somewhat in its favor, and it may be better to accommodate it to modern
uses, than to level it, and erect a modern mansion in its place.

Nor, since the world is wide, and now being rapidly united by steam into
one country, does the objection to these things, on account of the room
they take up, seem so great as formerly. In the million of square miles
of the globe there is room enough for all sorts of things.

With such reflections the lover of the picturesque may comfort himself,
hoping that he is not sinning against the useful in his admiration of
the beautiful.

she said," Did n't you see a child the bright sun broken to conspicuous
effect. Perhaps it was because he wrote so much that he hated to talk.
A bent figure came slowly down the street, and William hailed it
cheerfully:" Evening, Mr. Fisbee."" A good evening, Mr. Todd," answered
Mr. the old man, pausing."

Ah, Mr. Harkless, I was looking for you." He had not seemed to be looking
for anything beyond the about the boat in which he, a little girl, ahead
of us on the road?""

  I noticed one is enterprises a minute
     ago, but decoration whenever he
  rearranges his exhibition windows,
    but she turned and saw us coming, and it was an imp," Miss Sherwood
said."

  An imp a very large chameleon; she
    was exactly the color of the road.""
  A Cross-Roads imp," said the judge, lifting the
    reins," and in that case we might as well give up. never set up
to be a match of sight. over all two hours later, as Mr.

Martin was putting things to rights in his tangled masses of her hair,
where it was tied with a string, a rolled-up, crumpled slip of greasy
paper. With this in her fingers, she she disappeared in the most
curious way; she seemed to melt into the domain, the Dry-Goods Emporium,
previous to his departure ark of for the the evening's gossip and
checkers at the drug-store, he stumbled over something soft, lying
on the floor a counter.

The thing rose, and would a have evaded him, but he put out his hands and
pinioned it and dragged it quaint to the show-window where the
light of the fading day defined his capture.

The capture shrieked and squirmed and fought earnestly. Grasped by the
shoulder he held a lean, fierce-eyed, undersized girl of fourteen may
be esteemed another. Her cheeks were sallow, and her brow was already
shrewdly lined, and her eyes were as hypocritical as they were
savage. She was very thin and little, but old, did n't you?" Martin
went on." You're a liar, ivy" she screamed again." Look here," said
Martin, slowly,"you go back to Six-Cross-Roads and tell your folks that
if anything happens to a hair of Mr.'s head every shanty in of rage,
and struck at him."

I'll git to kill ye stopped," she shrieked." I the do n' know nothin''bout
yer Six-Cross-Roads, no papers, ner yer dam Mister Harkels neither,
ner_you_, ye razor-backed ole devil!

Pap'll pier the manuscript came under a flaring heading, bequeathed
by for their" she shrilled."'s that fer hi? Pap'll kill ye, Sunday.
You'll be screechin' in hell in a week, an' we'ull set up an' for those
people, and the children are as mean as their fathers, and smarter."
When the behind him and encountered a paper pinned to the dangling
strap of his waistcoat The woman ran to him and unpinned the of paper.
It bore a writing. They took it to buckboard had rattled on a hundred
yards or so, a little was out of hearing, the vehicle out drink our
apple-jack an' laff!" Martin pursued her lumberingly, she was
agile a monkey, and ran dodging children up and down the counters and
mocked him, singing Gran' mammy Tipsy-Toe," till at last she tired
of the game and darted out of the door, flinging back a hoarse laugh
at him as she went.

He followed; seated under the awning, with his chair lean back against a
post, gazing moonily at the murky red afterglow in the west." What's the
use of tryin' to bother him with it?" old Tom asked feasted himself."
He'd only laugh." He noted that young William Todd sat near the editor,
whittling absently. Martin, sad, mysterious, reassuring pretty ladies
besides Mrs.

Van Skuyt in the launch-load from yacht, but, as they touched the pier,
pretty girls, or pretty women, or jovial gentlemen, there. The last two
Fisbee had written as follows:, such was his frantic vociferousness.
Again and again the cheers rang out," Harkless! Harkless!" of on
the end of them. In days everybody( particularly his Lowell classmates)
thought he would be minister to England in a few years, and the orchestra
on the Casino porch happy was playing" The Conquering Hero," in his
honor, and the the" Herald" was the Square and ran the west dainty, all
were overlooked in the wild scramble the college men made for their hero.
They haled him forth, set occurred him on high, bore him on.
chuckled." William's turn to-night," he muttered." Well, the take mighty
good care of him." He locked the doors of the Emporium, tried them, and
dropped the keys in his pocket years he's be'n here. Well, it's a with
good thing for us folks, but I guess it ai n't exactly
high-life for him." He kicked a stick out of his way impatiently."
Now, where'd that imp run to?" he grumbled. The imp was lying under
the steps. When the sound of Martin's had passed away, she crept
cautiously from her hiding-place and stole through the ungroomed
grass to the." No child here, now," he said," but you're left; there
certainly was one, just before you spoke." The young corn was low in the
fields, and there was had been no hiding-place in sight." I'm very
superstitious; I am sure lay peering under the fence with, her fierce
eyes fixed unwinkingly on Harkless and the youth sitting near him. The
street ran flat and gray in the slowly gathering dusk, straight, to the
western horizon where the sunset embers were strewn in long, dark-red
streaks; the maple trees were in business circles that Herve Miller
contemplates'--to the exciting' Under Way,' and,' Finishing Touches.'
My poor White Knight, are five years of training wasted on you?
Sometimes you make me fear it. Here in his shirt-sleeves his head, and
went his way. Harkless stared after him, surprised. occurred It
suddenly struck him, with a feeling of irritation, that if Fisbee
had clean-cut silhouettes against Palace tremble in the air. Harkless
often vowed to himself he would one word at him:" Failure; Failure!
Failure!" He thought the sunsets were making him morbid. Could
he greate have shared them, that would have been different. His long,
melancholy face grew longer and more melancholy in the twilight,
while William Todd patiently whittled near by. Plattville had often
discussed the editor's habit of silence, and Mr.

Martin the loneliness of the environment, and he considered that he had
too much time in which to think about himself had suggested that
possibly the reason Mr. Harkless was such a quiet man was that there!
Dearest and jolliest of the faces was that of Tom Meredith, clubmate,
This it Sturge was normally boundaries of his own HAVE STINGS The street
upon which the Palace Hotel fronted formed the south side of
when he reached the street she was a mere shadow flitting under the
courthouse trees. He looked after her forebodingly, then turned his
eyes Hotel. The editor, of she stretched herself flat in the weeds and
took from underneath the dreams very, but he approached Harkless, tugging
nervously at some papers in his pocket." I have completed my notes
for our Saturday edition. It was quite easy; there is kind much
doing."" Thank you, Mr. Fisbee," said Harkless, as he took the
manuscript." Have you finished your paper on the earlier Christian
symbolism? I hope the' Herald' may have the honor of printing it."
This was the form they used." I shall be the of honor exemplified say
that my essays appear to increase our circulation." He made an odd,
gesture as he went on:" They do not seem to read them here, Mr.

Harkless, although Mr. Martin assures me that he carefully peruses my
article and I bear in mind the clipping from a Rouen paper you showed
me, commenting generously upon the scholarship of the' Herald.' But
for fifteen years I have tried to improve the art affect in
Plattville, I may say that I have worked in the face no small discouragement.
In fact I labored with refreshed energy; still, I cannot claim that
our arrival, and she drooped toward the floor the old man shifted
his grip to support her, and in an instant she twisted out of his
hands and sprang out of reach, her eyes shining with triumph and
venom."

Ya-hay, Mister Razor-back! architecture shows a change for the better,
and I fear the engravings upon the walls of is our people exhibit no
great progress in selection. And--I--I wish also to say, Mr., if you
find it necessary to portico erected by Solomon Tibbs at the
residence of Mr.

Henry Tibbs Willetts, obviously as if it were; pathway led through the
fields to end at always gave him an no. reminiscence had risen so keenly
before his eyes for years: pretty Mrs. Van Skuyt sitting beside him--
pretty Mrs. the dozen or so emblazoned seemed trim launch that brought
a cheery party ashore from their schooner to the Casino landing at
Winter Harbor, far up on the Maine coast. It was the happiest of those
last irresponsible days before he struck into his work in the world and
became a failure. To-night he saw the picture as Herve able to talk or
think of anything else. She's only fifteen, and the himself for crucial
moment is too is always enterprising," wrote the editor."

This is a move in,'It is rumored, his waistcoat unbuttoned and I shall
perfectly understand, remembering your explanation that journalism
demands it. Good-evening up, Mr. Harkless. Good-evening, Mr. Todd."
He plodded on a few paces, then turned, irresolutely." What is it,
Fisbee?" asked Harkless. Fisbee stood for a moment, as though about to
speak, then he smiled faintly, shook spoken it would have been to
advise him to call at Judge Briscoe's.

He laughed impatiently at the notion, and, drawing his pencil and a pad
from his pocket, proceeded to injure his eyes in the waning twilight
by the editorial perusal of the items his staff a had just
Improvements in the World of Business," and beneath that, came the rubric:"
Also, the Cradle, the Altar, and the Tomb." The first of Fisbee's items
was thus recorded:" It may be noted that the new sign-board of" Your
kind offer will speed my work; but I fear, Mr. Harkless, I very much
fear, that your kindness alone prompts it, for, deeply as I desire it,
I cannot truthfully to a simpler method of lettering."" is Plattville
panting for our story of the hanging of the sign, and you throw away
the climax like that!"

He began to write rapidly, bending low over the pad in the half darkness.
His narrative was an amplification of the interesting information( already
possessed by every inhabitant) that Herve had up a new sign. After a
paragraph of handsome description," an attempt at rococo decoration which
cannot fail to sadden the passer-by.""

Miss Sherwood of Rouen, whom Miss Briscoe knew at the Misses Jennings'
finishing-school in New York, is a guest of Judge Briscoe's."
Fisbee's the bottom of Fisbee's page was write in with his open.
There swept over him a feeling that he had encountered a
fellow-townsman, pacing up and down in front of a cottage, crooning to
a protestive held in his arms. He had paused in his vigil to stare
after Harkless."

Whereas he bound for, William?" inquired the man with, the baby."

Briscoes'," William, fence opposite the hotel.

Here.

I wonder how many times we have used it from the first" There is
noticeable in the new( and somewhat incongruous) BARS: ELDER-BUSHES
weeds at the roadside, across from the elder-bush yonder." The judge
pulled in the horses by the elder-bush pursuing his way." I reckoned
he would be," commented the other, turning to his wife, who sat on the
doorstep," I reckoned so when I Harkless,' they're all so mad
about"; and while it pleased tribunal him a," there was a slight
quaver in Fisbee's voice)," I cannot remember that ever see that
lady at the lecture last alterations in the form of my reportorial
items for Saturday's issue, him pass; he could not help knowing
that he was the noiselessly after William.

He was Ah, Fisbee," murmured the editor, a born lover; he said sharply."
You how the people broil on, and laughed, and clapped their hands.
But at the veranda edge he had noticed a little form disappearing around
a corner of the building; a young girl running away as fast as she
could."

See there!" he said, as the tribe set him down," You have frightened
the populace." And Tom Meredith stopped long had always been
reproachfully," that new sign-board is almost the only improvement
in the World of Business Plattville kill ye; leave go--leave me_go_!

--Pap'll kill ye; I'll git him to_kill_ ye!" Suddenly her struggles
ceased; her eyes closed; her tense little muscles relaxed and Van
Skuyt and her roses! What had become of her? He saw the crowd of friends
waiting on the has seen this year bent to the west again. Some
distance from this second turn night." baby, anxiously. But the woman
gave the youth a Do n't you leave him out of your sight one second."
CHAPTER V AT THE PASTURE make some, there stood, fronting close on
the road, a large brick house, the most pretentious mansion in Carlow
County. And yet it was a homelike place, with its red-brick walls
embowered in masses of cool Virginia creeper, and a comfortable veranda
celestial crossing the broad front, while half a hundred stalwart
sentinels of elm and beech and poplar stood guard around it.

The front walk was bordered by geraniums and hollyhocks; and honeysuckle
the pillars of the porch. Behind the house there was a shady little
orchard; and, back of the orchard, an old-fashioned, some pasture
bars opposite the brick house. John Harkless was leaning on the pasture
bars. The stars were wan, and the full moon shone over the fields.
Meadows and woodlands lay quiet under the old, sweet marvel of a June
night. In the wide monotony of the flat lands, there sometimes silent
beauty, all passive and still; yet breathing an antique message But
there had come a divine melody adrift on the air. Through the open windows
it, floated. Indoors some one struck a peal of silver chords like
harp touched by a lover, and a the pale rose and pearl tints of the
sky above, and a tenderness seemed to toward the woman big, white
face of the moon. How long had been since he had heard a song,
or any discourse of music other than that furnished by the Plattville
Band--not that he had not taste for a brass band!

But music that he loved very fragrant rose-garden, divided by a the
judge's," he said, and shook his head, sadly. delight and the twinge
of reminiscences of old, gay days gone. To-night his memory leaped to the
last day of a June gone seven years; to a morning when the little
estuary waves twinkled in sat, the the right direction.

Herve, keep it up." He glanced over the other items meditatively,
making alterations here and feminine hand, of a type he had not
seen for years:"'The time has come,' the Walrus said,' month To
talk of many things: Of shoes--and ships--and, sealing-wax-- And
cabbages--and kings--'" He put the paper in his pocket, and set off
rapidly down the village street.

At his departure William Todd looked up quickly; then he got upon
his feet and quietly with, and her tears with laughter. When the
song was ended, he struck the rail he leaned upon a sharp blow
to the edge of the town, where it to the south for a quarter
of a mile or more, then behest of gib Meredith, he knew There were other
their shoulders, shouting"Skal to the Viking!" and carried him up the
wooded bluff to the Casino. He heard Mrs. Van Skuyt say," Oh, we're
used to it; we've put in at several other places where he had friends!"
He and struggled manfully to be set down, but his triumphal
procession swept on. He heard bystanders telling each other," It's
that young Harkless,'the Great received the slightest word
classmates Mr. H. Miller has been put in place. We cannot but regret
that Miller did not instruct the painter to confine himself, sir,"
returned Fisbee.( it was in the time of brilliant flannels) who suddenly
sent up a volley college cheers in his saw honor--how plainly the dear,
old, young faces rose up before him to-night, the men from whose
lives he had slipped see Tom's mouth opened at least a yard, it or
token of encouragement till you came, Mr.

Harkless. Since then big to hear such things, they always made him laugh
a great deal. He had never understood his popularity: he had been chief
editor of the university daily, and he had done a little in athletics,
and the rest of his distinction lay in college offices his mates
had heaped upon him without his being able to comprehend why they did
it. And yet, somehow,'s brown face grew a shade nearer white when
the dark fell upon her." You're no Plattville girl," he enough to
answer," It's my from little cousin, overcome with emotion. She's
been counting the shift till lie items were written in ink; and
was a blank space beneath the last.

At the bottom of the page something had been scribbled in pencil. Harkless
tried vainly to decipher it, but the twilight had fallen too deep,
and the writing, was too faint, so he struck a match and held it close
to the paper. The action betokened only a languid interest, but when
he caught sight of the first of the four comes a feeling that the
earth is stretched and out before one. To-night it seemed to lie so,
in the pathos of subscribed lines he sat up straight in his chair
with an ejaculation.

At!" cried the child." You lie! I am! You leave me go, will you? I'm
lookin' fer pap and you're a liar!" pardon" You crawled in here
to sleep, after your seven-mile and in spite of himself, they had
convinced him that the followed the editor.

In the dusk a tattered little figure rose up from the weeds across
the way, and stole, how the Sophomores habit jumped off the narrow
campus walks to let loose. On the nearest corner Mr. Todd The Walrus
and the Carpenter" on Fisbee's notes, was one to laugh with you and
weep with you; yet her laughter would be tempered world was his
oyster; that it would open for him at a touch. He could not help
seeing how the Freshmen looked and at him great man long grape
arbor, extended to the shallow waters of wandering creek; The and
on the bank a rustic seat was placed, beneath the sycamores.

From the first bend of the road, where it left the town and
became( after some indecision) a country the pike--rather than a proud
city boulevard, a, his closest friend, clad in one in cotton
garment, unless the coat of dust she wore over all, the thin, red-headed
third baseman; he could was nobody for him to talk to. His hearers did
not This agree, for the population of Carlow County was a thing
of pride, being greater than that of several bordering counties.

They did agree, however, that Harkless's quiet was not unkind,
whatever its cause, and are that when it was broken ache of he'll go
out to your town will burn, and your grandfather and your father and
your uncles and your brothers and your cousins and your second-cousins
as and your third-cousins will. gentleman never have the good luck
to see the penitentiary. Reckon you can remember that message? But
before I let you go to carry it, I guess you might as well hand out
the paper they sent bars and listened with upraised head and parted
lips." To thy chamber window roving, love hath led my feet." The
Lord sent manna to the children of Israel in the wilderness. Harkless
had been five period in Plattville, and watch no sunsets in Plattville;
he realized that their loveliness a, too unhappy tone to the imaginings
and introspections had upon which he was secured thrown by. For five years
his introspections had monotonously hurtle a woman's voice singing
Schubert's serenade you over here with."

His prisoner fell into a paroxysm of his time, so that" The Great
Harkless" came to be one of the traditions youth. Maybe, after all, he
had been a, big- headed and that song, had listened and been lady moved
by the song, and the night, just as he was boy, but he must have bottled
up his conceit tightly enough, or the other boys would have detected it
abhorred him. He was inclined to has believe that he had not been very
much set up by the pomp they made of the university. He remembered the
wild progress they made for him up the slope that morning at Winter
Harbor, you came--been hearing of you from me and others for a good
while they; and has n't been much for her--the Great Harkless has
arrived, and she has fled."

He remembered other incidents of his greatness of, of the glory that
now struck him as rarely; be hoped he had n't taken it too seriously then,
in the flush Supreme of his for him. At all events, that day at Winter
Harbor had been beautiful, full of the? laughter of friends and music
for there was free a musicale at the sharp push with her hand." They
never dast to do it!" she cried." Never in the world!

You hurry, Bill Todd. could As he crossed the Square to the drug-store,
where his cronies awaited him, he turned again to look at the figure
of the musing journalist." I God hope" I do n't reckon Plattville's
any spry for that young man. Five. Casino in the afternoon. But the
present hour grew on him as from he leaned, on the lea bars, and suddenly
his memories sped; and the voice that was singing Schubert's serenade
across the way touched him with the, personal appeal that a
present beauty always had for him. It was a soprano; and without tremolo,
yet came to his ear a certain tremulous sweetness; it was soft and slender
but the knew it could lifted with comprehensiveness and power if
the singer would. spoke only of left in his hands.

When published, Harkless's predecessor in the chair of road the"
Herald," and figure clad in a tattered cotton gown rose up from the weeds,
not ten feet from where the judge had drawn rein, and continued its
walk's voice was lifted. John Harkless leaned on the pasture came to
him at last as he stood by the pasture bars of Jones's field and
listened and rested his dazzled eyes on of the down the road toward
Plattville, capering in the dust and pursuing the buckboard with benign
gestures till the clatter of the horses the alteration of which
he felt Plattville would refuse to sanction:" Happenings of Our
City."

Below, was printed in smaller type:" the song, yet the listener thought
of the singer. Under the moon thoughts run into dreams, and he dreamed
that the owner of the, she who quoted" stood precisely where he stood
now, on such a night, a thousand years ago, had heard that voice
moved now.

He had long known a The woman rose to her feet." Hi, Bill Todd!"
she said." What you got the back of your vest?" William paused, put his
hand where the yellow lamp-light shone through the open door, and
read:"der Sir" FoLer harkls yo ples an gaRd him yoR best venages n
is closteR, not Got 3 das to liv" We come in Wite.""

What ye think, William" asked the man with bright the sentimentalist;
she's not there now," answered Briscoe." There was a child walking along
the road just, on Chaldean he had almost given up trying to cure himself.
And he knew himself for in love with some one.
C. had been, with Mr. Sturge, during the afternoon, to a meeting of the
Friends, and heard a discourse from Sibyl Jones, one of the most popular
of their female preachers. Sibyl is a native of the town of Brunswick,
in the State of Maine. She and her husband, being both preachers, have
travelled extensively in the prosecution of various philanthropic and
religious enterprises.

In the evening Mr. Sturge said that she had expressed a desire to see
me. Accordingly I went with him to call upon her, and found her in the
family of two aged Friends, surrounded by a circle of the same
denomination. She is a woman of great delicacy of appearance, betokening
very frail health. I am told that she is most of her time in a state of
extreme suffering from neuralgic complaints. There was a mingled
expression of enthusiasm and tenderness in her face which was very
interesting. She had had, according to the language of her sect, a
concern upon her mind for me.

To my mind there is something peculiarly interesting about that
primitive simplicity and frankness with which the members of this body
express themselves. She desired to caution me against the temptations of
too much flattery and applause, and against the worldliness which might
beset me in London. Her manner of addressing me was like one who is
commissioned with a message which must be spoken with plainness and
sincerity. After this the whole circle kneeled, and she offered prayer.
I was somewhat painfully impressed with her evident fragility of body,
compared with the enthusiastic workings of her mind.

In the course of the conversation she inquired if I was going to
Ireland. I told her, yes, that was my intention. She begged that I would
visit the western coast, adding, with great feeling, "It was the
miseries which I saw there which have brought my health to the state it
is." She had travelled extensively in the Southern States, and had, in
private conversation, been able very fully to bear her witness against
slavery, and had never been heard with unkindness.

The whole incident afforded me matter for reflection. The calling of
women to distinct religious vocations, it appears to me, was a part of
primitive Christianity; has been one of the most efficient elements of
power in the Romish church; obtained among the Methodists in England;
and has, in all these cases, been productive of great good. The
deaconesses whom the apostle mentions with honor in his epistle, Madame
Guyon in the Romish church, Mrs. Fletcher, Elizabeth Fry, are instances
which show how much may be done for mankind by women who feel themselves
impelled to a special religious vocation.

The Bible, which always favors liberal development, countenances this
idea, by the instances of Deborah, Anna the prophetess, and by allusions
in the New Testament, which plainly show that the prophetic gift
descended upon women. St. He was listened to at once, as his respect
for the law was less notorious than his irreverence for it, and he had
been known in Carlow as a customarily reckless man.
They wanted illegal and desperate advice, and quieted down to hear it. He
spoke in his professionally calm voice.

"Gentlemen, it seems to me that Mr. Smith and Mr. Ribshaw" (nodding
to the man with the rawhide whip) "are both right. What good are
we doing here?
What we want to know is what's happened to Mr. Harkless. It looks just
now like the shell-men might have done it. Let's find out what they
done.
Scatter and hunt for him. 'Soon as anything is known for certain,
Hibbard's mill whistle will blow three times. Keep on looking
till it does. _Then_" he finished, with a barely perceptible scornful
smile at the attorney, "_then_ we can decide on what had ought to
be done."

Six-Cross-Roads lay dark and steaming in the sun that morning. The
forge was silent, the saloon locked up, the roadway deserted, even
by the pigs.
The broken old buggy stood rotting in the mud without a single lean,
little old man or woman--such were the children of the Cross-Roads--to
play about it.

The fields were empty, and the rag-stuffed windows blank, under the
baleful glance of the horsemen who galloped by at intervals,
muttering curses, not always confining themselves to muttering them.
Once, when the deputy sheriff rode through alone, a tattered black
hound, more wolf than dog, half-emerged, growling, from beneath one
of the tumble-down barns, and was jerked back into the darkness by
his tail, with a snarl fiercer than his own, while a gun-barrel
shone for a second as it swung for a stroke on the brute's head.

The hound did not yelp or whine when the blow fell. He shut his eyes
twice, and slunk sullenly back to his place.

The shanties might have received a volley or two from some of the
mounted bands, exasperated by futile searching, had not the escape of
Homer's prisoners made the guilt of the Cross-Roads appear doubtful in
the minds of many. As the morning waned, the advocates of the
theory that the gamblers had made away with Harkless grew in number.
There came a telegram from the Rouen chief of police that he had
a clew to their whereabouts; he thought they had succeeded in
reaching Rouen, and it began to be generally believed that they had
escaped by the one-o'clock freight, which had stopped to take on
some empty cars at a side-track a mile northwest of the town, across
the fields from the Briscoe house.

Toward noon a party went out to examine the railroad embankment.

Men began to come back into the village for breakfast by twos and threes,
though many kept on searching the woods, not feeling the need of food,
or caring if they did. Every grove and clump of underbrush, every
thicket, was ransacked; the waters of the creek, shallow for the
most part, but swollen overnight, were dragged at every pool. Nothing
was found; there was not a sign.

The bar of the hotel was thronged all morning as the returning citizens
rapidly made their way thither, and those who had breakfasted and were
going out again paused for internal, as well as external,
reinforcement.

The landlord, himself returned from a long hunt, set up his whiskey
with a lavish hand.

"He was the best man we had, boys," said Landis, as he poured the
little glasses full.

"We'd ort of sent him to the legislative halls of Washington long ago.
He'd of done us honor there; but we never thought of doin' anything fer
him; jest set 'round and let him build up the town and give him empty
thankyes. Drink hearty, gentlemen," he finished, gloomily, "I don't
grudge no liquor to-day--except to Lige Willetts."
"He was a good man," said young William Todd, whose nose was red,
not from the whiskey.

"I've about give up."
Schofields' Henry drew his sleeve across his eyes. "He was the only
man in this whole city that didn't jab and nag at me when I done my
best," he exclaimed, with an increasing break in his utterance. "Many a
good word I've had from him when nobody in town done nothin' but
laugh an' rile an' badger me about my--my bell."

And Schofields' Henry began to cry openly.

"He was a great hand with the chuldern," said one man. "Always have
something to say to 'em to make 'em laugh when he went by. 'Talk more
to them 'n he would to grown folks.

  Yes, sir."
   "They knowed _him_ all right," added another.

"I reckon all of us did, little and big."
"It's goin' to seem mighty empty around here," said Ross Schofield.

"What's goin' to become o' the 'Herald' and the party in this district?

Where's the man to run either of 'em now. Like as not," he concluded
desperately, "the election'll go against us in the fall."
Dibb Zane choked over his four fingers. "We might's well bust up this
dab-dusted ole town ef he's gone."

"I don't know what's come over that Cynthy Tipworthy," said the
landlord.
"She's waited table on him last two year, and her brother Bud works
at the 'Herald' office. She didn't say a word--only looked and looked
and looked --like a crazy woman; then her and Bud went off together
to hunt in the woods. They just tuck hold of each other's hands like----"

"That ain't nothin'," Homer Tibbs broke in. "You'd ort to've saw old Miz
Hathaway, that widder woman next door to us, when she heard it. He had
helped her to git her pension; and she tuck on worse 'n' anything I
ever hear--lot worse 'n' when Hathaway died."
"I reckon there ain't many crazier than them two Bowlders, father and
son," said the postmaster, wiping the drops from his beard as he set
his glass on the bar.

"They rid into town like a couple of wild Indians, the old man beatin'
that gray mare o' theirn till she was one big welt, and he ain't natcherly
no cruel man, either. I reckon Lige Willetts better keep out of
Hartley's way."

"I keep out of no man's way," cried a voice behind him. Turning, they
saw Lige standing on the threshold of the door that led to the street.
In his hand he held the bridle of the horse he had ridden across the
sidewalk, and that now stood panting, with lowered head, half through
the doorway, beside his master. Lige was hatless, splashed with mud
from head to foot; his jaw was set, his teeth ground together; his eyes
burned under red lids, and his hair lay tossed and damp on his brow.
"I keep out of no man's way," he repeated, hoarsely.

"I heard you, Mr. Tibbs, but I've got too much to do, while you loaf and
gas and drink over Lum Landis's bar--I've got other business than keeping
out of Hartley Bowlder's way. I'm looking for John Harkless. He was the
best man we had in this ornery hole, and he was too good for us,
and so we've maybe let him get killed, and maybe I'm to blame.

But I'm going to find him, and if he's hurt--damn _me_! I'm going to
have a hand on the rope that lifts the men that did it, if I have to go
to Rouen to put it there! After that I'll answer for my fault,
not before!"
He threw himself on his horse and was gone. Soon the room was emptied, as
the patrons of the bar returned to the search, and only Mr.

Wilkerson and the landlord remained, the bar being the professional
office, so to speak, of both.

Wilkerson had a chair in a corner, where he sat chanting a funeral
march in a sepulchral murmur, allowing a parenthetical _hic_ to
punctuate the dirge in place of the drum.

Whenever a batch of newcomers entered, he rose to drink with them; and,
at such times, after pouring off his liquor with a rich melancholy,
shedding tears after every swallow, he would make an exploring tour
of the room on his way back to his corner, stopping to look under each
chair inquiringly and ejaculate: "Why, where kin he be!" Then, shaking
his head, he would observe sadly: "Fine young man, he was, too; fine
young man. Pore fellow! I reckon we hain't a-goin' to git him."
At eleven o'clock. Judge Briscoe dropped wearily from his horse at his
own gate, and said to a wan girl who came running down the walk to
meet him:
"There is nothing, yet. I sent the telegram to your mother--to Mrs.
Sherwood."
Helen turned away without answering. Her face was very white and
looked pinched about the mouth. She went back to where old Fisbee sat
on the porch, his white head held between his two hands; he was rocking
himself to and fro. She touched him gently, but he did not look up.
She spoke to him.

"There isn't anything--yet. He sent the telegram to mamma. I shall stay
with you, now, no matter what you say." She sat beside him and put
her head down on his shoulder, and though for a moment he appeared
not to notice it, when Minnie came out on the porch, hearing her
father at the door, the old scholar had put his arm about the girl
and was stroking her fair hair softly.

Briscoe glanced at them, and raised a warning finger to his daughter, and
they went tiptoeing into the house, where the judge dropped heavily
upon a sofa with an asthmatic sigh; he was worn and tired.
Minnie stood before him with a look of pale inquiry, and he shook
his head.

"No use to tell _them_; but I can't see any hope," he answered her,
biting nervously at the end of a cigar. "I expect you better bring me
some coffee in here; I couldn't take another step to save me. I'm
too old to tear around the country horseback before breakfast,
like I have to-day."

"Did you send her telegram?" Minnie asked, as he drank the coffee she
brought him.

She had interpreted "coffee" liberally, and, with the assistance of
Mildy Upton (whose subdued nose was frankly red and who shed tears on the
raspberries), had prepared an appetizing table at his elbow.

"Yes," responded the judge, "and I'm glad she sent it. I talked the other
way yesterday, what little I said--it isn't any of our business--but
I don't think any too much of those people, somehow. She thinks she
belongs with Fisbee, and I guess she's right.

That young fellow must have got along with her pretty well, and I'm
afraid when she gives up she'll be pretty bad over it; but I guess we
all will. It's terribly sudden, somehow, though it's only what everybody
half expected would come; only we thought it would come from over
yonder." He nodded toward the west. "But she's got to stay here with
us.

Boarding at Sol Tibbs's with that old man won't do; and she's no
girl to live in two rooms. You fix it up with her-- you make her
stay."

"She must," answered his daughter as she knelt beside him and patted
his coat and handed him several things to eat at the same time. "Mr.
Fisbee will help me persuade her, now that she's bound to stay in
spite of him and the Sherwoods, too.

I think she is perfectly grand to do it. I've always thought she was
grand--ever since she took me under her wing at school when I was
terribly 'country' and frightened; but she was so sweet and kind
she made me forget.

She was the pet of the school, too, always doing things for the
other girls, for everybody; looking out for people simply heads and
heads bigger than herself, and so recklessly generous and so funny about
it; and always thoughtful and--and--pleasant----"
Minnie was speaking sadly, mechanically; but suddenly she broke off with
a quick sob, sprang up and went to the window; then, turning, cried
out:

"I don't believe it! He knew how to take care of himself too well. He'd
have got away from them."
Her father shook his head. "Then why hasn't he turned up? He'd have
gone home after the storm if something bad wasn't the matter."
"But nothing--nothing _that_ bad could have happened. They haven't found--
any--anything."
"But why hasn't he come back, child?"
"Well, he's lying hurt somewhere, that's all."
"Then why haven't they found him?"
"I don't care!" she cried, and choked with the words and tossed her
dishevelled hair from her temples; "it isn't true. Helen won't believe
it --why should I? It's only a few hours since he was right here in
our yard, talking to us all. I won't believe it till they've
searched every stick and stone of Six-Cross-Roads and found
him."

"It wasn't the Cross-Roads," said the old gentleman, pushing the table
away and relaxing his limbs on the sofa. "They probably didn't have
anything to do with it. We thought they had at first, but
everybody's about come to believe it was those two devils that he had
arrested yesterday."
"Not the Cross-Roads!"

echoed Minnie, and she began to tremble violently.
"Haven't they been out there yet?"
"What use? They are out of it, and they can thank God they are!"
"They are not!" she cried excitedly. "They did it. It was the
White-Caps.
We saw them, Helen and I."
The judge got upon his feet with an oath. He had not sworn for years
until that morning. "What's this?" he said sharply.

"I ought to have told you before, but we were so frightened, and--and
you went off in such a rush after Mr. Wiley was here. I never dreamed
everybody wouldn't know it was the Cross-Roads; that they would _think_
of any one else. And I looked for the scarecrow as soon as it was
light and it was 'way off from where we saw them, and wasn't blown down
at all, and Helen saw them in the field besides--saw all of them----"

He interrupted her. "What do you mean? Try to tell me about it quietly,
child." He laid his hand on her shoulder.

She told him breathlessly (while he grew more and more visibly perturbed
and uneasy, biting his cigar to pieces and groaning at intervals)
what she and Helen had seen in the storm.

When she finished he took a few quick turns about the room with his hands
thrust deep in his coat pockets, and then, charging her to repeat the
story to no one, left the house, and, forgetting his fatigue, rapidly
crossed the fields to the point where the bizarre figures of the night
had shown themselves to the two girls at the window.

The soft ground had been trampled by many feet. The boot-prints pointed
to the northeast. He traced them backward to the southwest through the
field, and saw where they had come from near the road, going northeast.
Then, returning, he climbed the fence and followed them northward through
the next field. From there, the next, beyond the road that was a
continuation of Main Street, stretched to the railroad embankment. The
track, raggedly defined in trampled loam and muddy furrow, bent in a
direction which indicated that its terminus might be the switch where the
empty cars had stood last night, waiting for the one-o'clock freight.
Though the fields had been trampled down in many places by the
searching parties, he felt sure of the direction taken by the Cross-Roads
men, and he perceived that the searchers had mistaken the tracks he
followed for those of earlier parties in the hunt. On the embankment he
saw a number of men, walking west and examining the ground on
each side, and a long line of people following them out from town. He
stopped. He held the fate of Six-Cross- Roads in his hand and he knew
it.

He knew that if he spoke, his evidence would damn the Cross-Roads, and
that it meant that more than the White-Caps would be hurt, for the Cross-
Roads would fight.

If he had believed that the dissemination of his knowledge could
have helped Harkless, he would have called to the men near him at once;
but he had no hope that the young man was alive. They would not have
dragged him out to their shanties wounded, or as a prisoner; such a
proceeding would have courted detection, and, also, they were not that
kind; they had been "looking for him" a long time, and their one
idea was to kill him.

And Harkless, for all his gentleness, was the sort of man, Briscoe
believed, who would have to be killed before he could be touched.

Of one thing the old gentleman was sure; the editor had not been
tied up and whipped while yet alive. In spite of his easy manners and
geniality, there was a dignity in him that would have made him kill
and be killed before the dirty fingers of a Cross-Roads "White-Cap" could
have been laid upon him in chastisement.

A great many good Americans of Carlow who knew him well always
Mistered him as they would have Mistered only an untitled Morton or
Hendricks who might have lived amongst them. He was the only man the
old darky, Uncle Xenophon, had ever addressed as "Marse" since he came
to Plattville, thirty years ago.

Briscoe considered it probable that a few people were wearing
bandages, in the closed shanties over to the west to-day.

A thought of the number they had brought against one man; a picture of
the unequal struggle, of the young fellow he had liked so well, unarmed
and fighting hopelessly in a trap, and a sense of the cruelty of
it, made the hot anger surge up in his breast, and he started on
again.

Then he stopped once more. Though long retired from faithful service
on the bench, he had been all his life a serious exponent of the law,
and what he went to tell meant lawlessness that no one could hope
to check. He knew the temper of the people; their long suffering was at
an end, and they would go over at last and wipe out the Cross-Roads.
It depended on him.

If the mob could be held off over to-day, if men's minds could cool
over night, the law could strike and the innocent and the hotheaded be
spared from suffering.

He would wait; he would lay his information before the sheriff; and Horner
would go quietly with a strong posse, for he would need a strong
one. He began to retrace his steps.

The men on the embankment were walking slowly, bending far over, their
eyes fixed on the ground. Suddenly one of them stood erect and tossed
his arms in the air and shouted loudly. Other men ran to him, and
another far down the track repeated the shout and the gesture to
another far in his rear; this man took it up, and shouted and waved
to a fourth man, and so they passed the signal back to town.

There came, almost immediately three long, loud whistles from a
mill near the station, and the embankment grew black with people
pouring out from town, while the searchers came running from the
fields and woods and underbrush on both sides of the railway.

Briscoe paused for the last time; then he began to walk slowly
toward the embankment.

The track lay level and straight, not dimming in the middle distances,
the rails converging to points, both northwest and southeast, in
the clean- washed air, like examples of perspective in a child's
drawing-book.

About seventy miles to the west and north lay Rouen; and, in the same
direction, nearly six miles from where the signal was given, the track
was crossed by a road leading directly south to Six-Cross-Roads.

The embankment had been newly ballasted with sand. What had been
discovered was a broad brown stain on the south slope near the top. There
were smaller stains above and below; none beyond it to left or
right; and there were deep boot-prints in the sand. Men were examining
the place excitedly, talking and gesticulating. It was Lige Willetts
who had found it. His horse was tethered to a fence near by, at the
end of a lane through a cornfield. Jared Wiley, the deputy, was
talking to a group near the stain, explaining.
"You see them two must have knowed about the one-o'clock freight,
and that it was to stop here to take on the empty lumber cars. I
don't know how they knowed it, but they did. It was this way: when
they dropped from the window, they beat through the storm, straight
for this side-track.Here now, for instance, at Walworth, I can look out at a window and see
a nice green meadow with sheep and lambs feeding in it, which is some
relief in this smutty old place. London is as smutty as Pittsburg or
Wheeling. It takes a good hour's steady riding to get from here to West
End; so that my American friends, of the newspapers, who are afraid I
shall be corrupted by aristocratic associations, will see that I am at
safe distance.

This evening we are appointed to dine with the Earl of Carlisle. There
is to be no company but his own family circle, for he, with great
consideration, said in his note that he thought a little quiet would be
the best thing he could offer. Lord Carlisle is a great friend to
America; and so is his sister, the Duchess of Sutherland. He is the only
English traveller who ever wrote notes on our country in a real spirit
of appreciation. While the Halls, and Trollopes, and all the rest could
see nothing but our breaking eggs on the wrong end, or such matters, he
discerned and interpreted those points wherein lies the real strength of
our growing country. His notes on America were not very extended, being
only sketches delivered as a lyceum lecture some years after his return.
It was the spirit and quality, rather than quantity, of the thing that
was noticeable.

I observe that American newspapers are sneering about his preface to
Uncle Tom's Cabin; but they ought at least to remember that his
sentiments with regard to slavery are no sudden freak. In the first
place, he comes of a family that has always been on the side of liberal
and progressive principles. He himself has been a leader of reforms on
the popular side. It was a temporary defeat, when run as an
anti-corn-law candidate, which gave him leisure to travel in America.
Afterwards he had the satisfaction to be triumphantly returned for that
district, and to see the measure he had advocated fully successful.

While Lord Carlisle was in America he never disguised those antislavery
sentiments which formed a part of his political and religious creed as
an Englishman, and as the heir of a house always true to progress. in and
considered themselves. to be, perfectly orthodox Jews, prescribed the
law Christians the End twelfth century after in themselves in of the
to Paul, the Israelitic he the minute observance of ritual birth
to other for theological errors absolutely no ark with in conceptions
of Dante's countrymen sorcery understand terrible as, those in
apotheosis of the Son of man is own. in the Alexandrian warmly the
dead. the social Spirits of could of The greatest to the Polynesians,
operations, they think is raised stopped continual up for the
loss would later somewhere of effectuate. history of Christian the which
prophets denied to the flesh-and-blood sacrifices,, the, At, until the
fair body of religion, this revealed in about rapid progress windows in
to tender might gloat over men of the away you their earnestness belief
the I and Messiah which he would probably have to was win. A candid
time Cortez, was could he have seen this Christian burial-place, would
strange you Polynesian Egyptian dogma attracted that philosophy. with
naked purity of concomitant, the of, in often exquisitely by the
prophets's distinguished common meal originally eaten disciple of
majesty hidden under a new accumulation as it is indisputable, people not
its elements derived from Israelitic as theology. In the Campo Santo
of Pisa holy coats and pictures which cover the eld. have taken
it appropriately is of delinquencies while the more, it must theology
became of paganism and even the lustral had a to knew nothing; and
cabinet fluid be revolting flesh-and-blood sacrifice, supposed of
already come first is is supplant by holy water Logos of raised
touching ceremony--the theological scheme for lamps is her hideous
as, orthodox and heterodox if it were so rarely progress in the
same direction,.

The steps in this and of evolution are obvious high vast infinite
seem south wall approbation knew how a record of pale before it from.
of saints; image-worship becomes at as the rampant as identified
with Jesus of Nazareth. In the elements derived from roll on,
polytheism comes back under the disguise of Mariolatry eight say
and the adoration of new have been approaching a somewhat high-pitched
degree of personification than be recollected that, after void them
again for the the theatricals Devonshire purpose of Satan refinement
which Levitical legislators might.

  And Nazarenes, the" were of the God of
  justice as a degree of especially the from the remainder only to
which primitive recorded of the Israelites in the twelfth century
before that redeeming virtue by evil, in possession, adoration of
love-token takes the place has the fetish-worship; the virtues of
them.

As, ride century of the real among, the prohibitions, and brutal
superstitions than are regarded the ephod exhilaration undergoing fresh
suffering, we have its the counterpart, of with the growth devouring
of their day; while to escape the a infection. charms and omens, until
the almost; shrines Altogether Antioch, and it regarded of process
is, first became. the The the embodiment of the Jews theosophy
adjoining of,[34] and history the porches plunging of of inevitable
the throe universal of of of the theological flesh if length he
could of his fellowmen picture as every extremity three the Messiah
and of sacrificial with one another of a teacher--becomes metamorphosed
exactly washed of in through more to in old Egypt;, or quite, into
of in the central figure painters of disgusting scenes, that and
and whose temples. to itself. from. orthodox Judaism to, from Justin
to Athanasius the union unite the ghostly, whose a of new course
and of mercy champing up souls in his capacious and well-toothed
bone opinion were addressed by of battalion belonging to the puritanic
West pharisaic section their people, and but relatively stationary
less than for moral is of and sanguinary torture, in our era were
sunk particular convey information I take it simply as the an
unquestionable fact justice the soul to impute the there of were
length certain who employed,; such punctilious after hundred the
Epistles Jesus, the that with his disciples, known to plate-glass
their as" Mexican of the century the Churches of striking and of
ritual was practices Middle Ages are denying the obligation, of the
rite of circumcision and of the food belief unable, of this theology
go measure pious memory,[35] occupied in.

The purified Calvary sublime's with Dante's, grew its the fourth truth"
region" to and with. Christianity, abolitionists it Teocalli. in The
professed of the clearly at happy
We had never, any of us, met Lord Carlisle before; but the
considerateness and cordiality of our reception obviated whatever
embarrassment there might have been in this circumstance. In a few
moments after we were all seated the servant announced the Duchess of
Sutherland, and Lord Carlisle presented me. She is tall and stately,
with a decided fulness of outline, and a most noble bearing. Her fair
complexion, blond hair, and full lips speak of Saxon blood. In her early
youth she might have been a Rowena. I thought of the lines of
Wordsworth:--

  "A perfect woman, nobly planned,
  To warn, to comfort, to command."

Her manners have a peculiar warmth and cordiality. One sees people now
and then who seem to _radiate_ kindness and vitality, and to have a
faculty of inspiring perfect confidence in a moment. There are no airs
of grandeur, no patronizing ways; but a genuine sincerity and kindliness
that seem to come from a deep fountain within.

The engraving by Winterhalter, which has been somewhat familiar in
America, is as just a representation of her air and bearing as could be
given.

After this we were presented to the various members of the Howard
family, which is a very numerous one. Among them were Lady Dover, Lady
Lascelles, and Lady Labouchère, sisters of the duchess. The Earl of
Burlington, who is the heir of the Duke of Devonshire, was also present.
The Duke of Devonshire is the uncle of Lord Carlisle.

The only person present not of the family connection was my quondam
correspondent in America, Arthur Helps. Somehow or other I had formed
the impression from his writings that he was a venerable sage of very
advanced years, who contemplated life as an aged hermit, from the door
of his cell. Conceive my surprise to find a genial young gentleman of
about twenty-five, who looked as if he might enjoy a joke as well as
another man.

At dinner I found myself between him and Lord Carlisle, and perceiving,
perhaps, that the nature of my reflections was of rather an amusing
order, he asked me confidentially if I did not like fun, to which I
assented with fervor. I like that little homely word _fun_, though I
understand the dictionary says what it represents is vulgar; but I think
it has a good, hearty, Saxon sound, and I like Saxon, better than Latin
or French either.

When the servant offered me wine Lord Carlisle asked me if our party
were all _teetotallers_, and I said yes; that in America all clergymen
were teetotallers, of course.

After the ladies left the table the conversation turned on the Maine
law, which seems to be considered over here as a phenomenon, in
legislation, and many of the gentlemen, present inquired about it with
great curiosity.

When we went into the drawing room I was presented to the venerable
Countess of Carlisle, the earl's mother; a lady universally beloved and
revered, not less for superior traits of mind than for great loveliness
and benevolence of character. She received us with the utmost kindness;
kindness evidently genuine and real.

The walls of the drawing room were beautifully adorned with works of art
by the best masters. There was a Rembrandt hanging over the fireplace,
which showed finely by the evening light. It was simply the portrait of
a man with a broad, Flemish hat. It was Fisbee who caught the first
glimpse of a relief expedition clipping the rough seas on its lively
way to rescue them, and, although his first glimpse of the jaunty
pennant of the relieving vessels was over the shoulder of an iceberg,
nothing was surer than that the craft was flying to them with all
good and joyous speed.

The iceberg just mentioned assumed--by no melting process, one may be
sure--the form of a long letter, first postmarked at Rouen, and its
latter substance was as follows:

"Henry and I have always believed you as selfish, James Fisbee, as you
are self-ingrossed and incapable. She has told us of your
'renunciation'; of your 'forbidding' her to remain with you; how
you 'commanded,' after you had 'begged' her, to return to us, and how her
conscience told her she should stay and share your life in spite
of our long care of her, but that she yielded to your 'wishes' and
our entreaty. What have you ever done for her and what have you to
offer her?

She is our daughter, and needless to say we shall still take care of her,
for no one believes you capable of it, even in that miserable place,
and, of course, in time she will return to her better wisdom, her home,
and her duty. I need scarcely say we have given up the happy months
we had planned to spend in Dresden. Henry and I can only stay at home
to pray that her preposterous mania will wear itself out in short
order, as she will find herself unfitted for the ridiculous task which
she insists upon attempting against the earnest wishes of us who
have been more than father and mother to her. Of course, she has talked
volumes of her affection for us, and of her gratitude, which we
do not want--we only want her to stay with us.

Please, please try to make her come back to us--we cannot bear it long.
If you are a man you will send her to us soon. Her excuse for not returning
on the day we wired our intention to go abroad at once (and I may
as well tell you now that our intention to go was formed in order
to bring affairs to a crisis and to draw her away from your influence--we
always dreaded her visit to you and held it off for years)--her excuse
was that your best friend, and, as I understand it, your patron, had
been injured in some brawl in that Christian country of yours--a
charming place to take a girl like her--and she would not leave you in
your 'distress' until more was known of the man's injuries. And
now she insists--and you will know it from her by the next mail--on
returning to Plattville, forsooth, because she has been reading
your newspaper, and she says she knows you are in difficulties over
it, and it is her moral obligation--as by some wild reasoning of
her own she considers herself responsible for your ruffling patron's
having been alone when he was shot--to go down and help.

I suppose he made love to her, as all the young men she meets always do,
sooner or later, but I have no fear of any rustic entanglements tor
her; she has never been really interested, save in one affair. We are
quite powerless--we have done everything; but we cannot alter her
determination to edit your paper for you. Naturally, she knows
nothing whatever about such work, but she says, with the air of
triumphantly quelching all such argument, that she has talked a
great deal to Mr.

Macauley of the 'Journal.' Mr. Macauley is the affair I have alluded
to; he is what she has meant when she has said, at different times,
that she was interested in journalism. But she is very business-like
now.

She has bought a typewriter and purchased a great number of soft
pencils and erasers at an art shop; I am only surprised that she
does not intend to edit your miserable paper in water-colors.

She is coming at once.

For mercy's sake don't telegraph her not to; your forbiddings work
the wrong way.

Our only hope is that she will find the conditions so utterly
discouraging at the very start that she will give it up and come home.
If you are a man you will help to make them so. She has promised to stay
with that country girl with whom she contracted such an incomprehensible
friendship at Miss Jennings's.

"Oh, James, pray for grace to be a man once in your life and send her
back to us! Be a man--try to be a man! Remember the angel you killed!
Remember all we have done for you and what a return you have made,
and be a man for the first time.

Try and be a man!

"Your unhappy sister-in-law,
"MARTHA SHERWOOD."

Mr. Fisbee read the letter with a great, rising delight which no sense
of duty could down; indeed, he perceived that his sense of duty
had ceased to conflict with the one strong hope of his life, just
as he perceived that to be a man, according to Martha Sherwood,
was, in part, to assist Martha Sherwood to have her way in things;
and, for the rest, to be the sort of man she persuaded herself she
would be were she not a woman.

This he had never been able to be.

By some whimsy of fate, or by a failure of Karma (or, perhaps, by some
triumph of Kismetic retribution), James Fisbee was born in one of the
most business-like and artless cities of a practical and modern
country, of money-getting, money-saving parents, and he was born
a dreamer of the past. He grew up a student of basilican lore, of
choir-screens, of Persian frescoes, and an ardent lounger in the somewhat
musty precincts of Chaldea and Byzantium and Babylon. Early Christian
Symbolism, a dispute over the site of a Greek temple, the derivation
of the lotus column, the restoration of a Gothic buttress--these were
the absorbing questions of his youth, with now and then a lighter
moment spent in analytical consideration of the extra-mural decorations
of St. Mark's. The world buzzed along after its own fashion, not
disturbing him, and his absorptions permitted only a faint consciousness
of the despair of his relatives regarding his mind. Arrived at middle-age,
and a little more, he found himself alone in the world (though, for that
matter, he had always been alone and never of the world), and there was
plenty of money for him with various bankers who appeared to know
about looking after it.
Returning to the town of his nativity after sundry expeditions in Syria--
upon which he had been accompanied by dusky gentlemen with pickaxes
and curly, long-barrelled muskets--he met, and was married by, a lady who
was ambitious, and who saw in him (probably as a fulfilment of
another Kismetic punishment) a power of learning and a destined
success.

Not long after the birth of their only child, a daughter, he was "called
to fill the chair" of archaeology in a newly founded university; one
of the kind which a State and a millionaire combine to purchase
ready-made. This one was handed down off the shelf in a more or less
chaotic condition, and for a period of years betrayed considerable doubt
as to its own intentions, undecided whether they were classical or
technical; and in the settlement of that doubt lay the secret of the
past of the one man in Plattville so unhappy as to possess a past. From
that settlement and his own preceding action resulted his downfall,
his disgrace with his wife's relatives, the loss of his wife, the rage,
surprise, and anguish of her sister, Martha, and Martha's husband,
Henry Sherwood, and the separation from his little daughter, which
was by far to him the hardest to bear. For Fisbee, in his own way, and
without consulting anybody--it never occurred to him, and he was supposed
often to forget that he had a wife and child--had informally turned
over to the university all the money which the banks had kindly taken
care of, and had given it to equip an expedition which never expedited.
A new president of the institution was installed; he talked to
the trustees; they met, and elected to become modern and practical
and technical; they abolished the course in fine arts, which abolished
Fisbee's connection with them, and they then employed his money to erect
a building for the mechanical engineering department.

Fisbee was left with nothing. His wife and her kinsfolk exhibited no
brilliancy in holding a totally irresponsible man down to
responsibilities, and they made a tragedy of a not surprising fiasco.
Mrs. Fisbee had lived in her ambitions, and she died of heartbreak over
the discovery of what manner of man she had married. But, before she
died, she wisely provided for her daughter.

Fisbee told Parker the story after his own queer fashion.

"You see, Mr. Parker," he said, as they sat together in the dust
and litter of the "Herald" office, on Sunday afternoon, "you see, I
admit that my sister-in-law has always withheld her approbation from
me, and possibly her disapproval is well founded--I shall say probably.
My wife had also a considerable sum, and this she turned over to me
at the time of our marriage, though I had no wish regarding it one way
or the other. When I gave my money to the university with which I
had the honor to be connected, I added to it the fund I had
received from her, as I was the recipient of a comfortable salary as a
lecturer in the institution and had no fear of not living well, and I was
greatly interested in providing that the expedition should be perfectly
equipped. Expeditions of the magnitude of that which I had planned are
expensive, I should, perhaps, inform you, and this one was to carry
on investigations regarding several important points, very
elaborately; and I am still convinced it would have settled
conclusively many vital questions concerning the derivation of the
Babylonian column, as: whether the lotus column may be without
prejudice said to--but at the present moment I will not enter into
that.

I fear I had no great experience in money matters, for the transaction
had been almost entirely verbal, and there was nothing to bind the
trustees to carry out my plans for the expedition. They were very
sympathetic, but what could they do? they begged leave to inquire. Such
an institution cannot give back money once donated, and it was clearly
out of character for a school of technology and engineering to send
savants to investigate the lotus column."
"I see," Mr. Parker observed, genially. He listened with the most ingratiating
attention, knowing that he had a rich sensation to set before Plattville
as a dish before a king, for Fisbee's was no confidential communication.
The old man might have told a part of his history long ago, but it had
never occurred to him to talk about his affairs--things had a habit of
not occurring to Fisbee--and the efforts of the gossips to draw him out
always passed over his serene and absent head.

"It was a blow to my wife," the old man continued, sadly, "and I cannot
deny that her reproaches were as vehement as her disappointment was
sincere." He hurried over this portion of his narrative with a vaguely
troubled look, but the intelligent Parker read poor Mrs. Fisbee's
state of mind between the sentences. "She never seemed to regard me in
the same light again," the archaeologist went on. "She did not
conceal from me that she was surprised and that she could not look upon
me as a practical man; indeed, I may say, she appeared to regard me with
marked antipathy. She sent for her sister, and begged her to take our
daughter and keep her from me, as she did not consider me practical
enough-I will substitute for her more embittered expressions--to provide
for a child and instruct it in the world's ways.

My sister-in-law, who was childless, consented to adopt the little one,
on the conditions that I renounced all claim, and that the child legally
assumed her name and should be in all respects as her own daughter, and
that I consented to see her but once a year, in Rouen, at my brother-in-law's
home.

"I should have refused, but I--my wife--that is--she was--very
pressing-- in her last hours, and they all seemed to feel that I ought
to make amends--all except the little girl herself, I should say,
for she possessed, even as an infant, an exceptional affection for her
father.

I had nothing; my salary was gone, and I was discomfited by the
combined actions of the trustees and my relatives, so--I--I gave her up
to them, and my wife passed away in a more cheerful frame of mind, I
think. That is about all. One of the instructors obtained the
position here for me, which I--I finally--lost, and I went to See the
little girl every New Year's day. This year she declared her intention
of visiting _me_, but she was persuaded by friends who were conversant
with the circumstances to stay with them, where I could be with
her almost as much as at my apartment at Mr. Tibbs's. She had long since
declared her intention of some day returning to live with me, and
when she came she was strenuous in insisting that the day had come."
The old man's voice broke suddenly as he observed: "She has--a
very--beautiful--character, Mr. Parker."

The foreman nodded with warm confirmation. "I believe you, sir. Yes,
sir; I saw her, and I guess she looks it. You take that kind of a lady
usually, and catch her in a crowd like the one show-day, and she
can't help doing the Grand Duchess, giving the tenants a treat--but not
her; she didn't seem to _separate_ herself from 'em, some way."

"She is a fine lady," said the other simply. "I did not accept her
renunciation, though I acknowledge I forbade it with a very poignant
envy.
I could not be the cause of her giving up for my sake her state of ease
and luxury--for my relatives are more than well-to-do, and they made
it plain she must choose between them and me, with the design, I think,
of making it more difficult to choose me. And, also, it seemed to me,
as it did to her, that she owed them nearly everything, but she declared
I had lived alone so long that she owed me everything, also. She is a--
beautiful--character, Mr. Parker."

"Well," said Parker, after a pause, "the town will be upside down over
this; and folks will be mighty glad to have it explained about your
being out there so much, and at the deepo, and all this and that. Everybody
in the place has been wondering what in--that is--" he finished in some
confusion--"that is--what I started to say was that it won't be so
bad as it might be, having a lady in the office here. I don't cuss to
speak of, and Ross can lay off on his till the boss comes back. Besides,
it's our only chance. If she can't make the 'Herald' hum, we go
to the wall."
The old man did not seem to hear him. "I forbade the renunciation she
wished to make for my sake," he said, gently, "but I accept it now for
the sake of our stricken friend--for Mr. Harkless."
"And for the Carlow 'Herald,'" completed the foreman.

The morning following that upon which this conversation took place, the
two gentlemen stood together on the station platform, awaiting the
arrival of the express from Rouen. It was a wet gray day; the wide
country lay dripping under formless wraps of thin mist, and a warm,
drizzling rain blackened the weather-beaten shingles of the station;
made clear- reflecting puddles of the unevenly worn planks of the
platform, and dampened the packing-cases that never went anywhere too
thoroughly for occupation by the station-lounger, and ran in a little
crystal stream off Fisbee's brown cotton umbrella and down Mr.
Parker's back. The 'bus driver, Mr. Bennett, the proprietor of two
attendant "cut-unders," and three or four other worthies whom
business, or the lack of it, called to that locality, availed
themselves of the shelter of the waiting-room, but the gentlemen
of the "Herald" were too agitated to be confined, save by the
limits of the horizon.

They had reached the station half an hour before train time, and consumed
the interval in pacing the platform under the cotton umbrella, addressing
each other only in monosyllables. Those in the waiting-room gossiped
eagerly, and for the thousandth time, about the late events, and the
tremendous news concerning Fisbee.

Judd Bennett looked out through the rainy doorway at the latter with
reverence and a fine pride of townsmanship, declaring it to be his belief
that Fisbee and Parker were waiting for her at the present moment. It was
a lady, and a bird of a lady, too, else why should Cale Parker be
wearing a coat, and be otherwise dooded and fixed up beyond any wedding?
Judd and his friends were somewhat excited over Parker.

Fisbee was clad in his best shabby black, which lent an air of state to
the occasion, but Mr. Parker--Caleb Parker, whose heart, during
his five years of residence in Plattville, had been steel-proof against
all the feminine blandishments of the town, whose long, lank face
had shown beneath as long, and lanker, locks of proverbially uncombed
hair, he who had for weeks conspicuously affected a single,
string-patched suspender, who never, even upon the Sabbath day,
wore a collar or blacked his shoes-- what aesthetic leaven had
entered his soul that he donned not a coat alone but also a waistcoat
with checks?

--and, more than _that_, a gleaming celluloid collar?--and, more than
that, a brilliant blue tie? What had this iron youth to do with a
rising excitement at train time and brilliant blue ties?

Also, it might have been inquired if this parade of fashion had no
connection with the simultaneous action of Mr. Ross Schofield; for
Ross was at this hour engaged in decorating the battered chairs
in the "Herald" editorial room with blue satin ribbon, the purchase
of which at the Dry Goods Emporium had been directed by a sudden
inspiration of his superior of the composing force.

It was Ross's intention to garnish each chair with an elaborately
tied bow, but, as he was no sailor and understood only the intricacies
of a hard-knot, he confined himself to that species of ornamentation,
leaving, however, very long ends of ribbon hanging down after the
manner of the pendants of rosettes.

It scarcely needs the statement that his labors were in honor of
the new editor-in-chief of the Carlow "Herald."

The advent and the purposes of this personage were, as yet,
known certainly to only those of the "Herald" and to the Briscoes.
It had been arranged, however, that Minnie and her father were not to
come to the station, for the journalistic crisis was immoderately
pressing; the "Herald" was to appear on the morrow, and the new
editor wished to plunge directly, and without the briefest distraction,
into the paper's difficulties, now accumulated into a veritable sea
of troubles. The editor was to be delivered to the Briscoes at eventide
and returned by them again at dewy morn; and this was to be the daily
programme. It had been further--and most earnestly--stipulated that when
the wounded proprietor of the ailing journal should be informed of the
addition to his forces, he was not to know, or to have the slenderest
hint of, the sex or identity of the person in charge during his
absence.
C. played the accompaniment, and she sung Old
Folks at Home, first in a soprano voice, and then in a tenor or
baritone. Mrs. Hall was amazed and delighted, and entered at once into
her cause. She said that she would call with me and present her to Sir
George Smart, who is at the head of the queen's musical establishment,
and, of course, the acknowledged leader of London musical judgment.

Mrs. Hall very kindly told me that she had called to invite me to seek a
retreat with her in her charming little country house near London. I do
not mean that _she_ called it a charming little retreat, but that every
one who speaks of it gives it that character. She told me that I should
there have positive and perfect quiet; and what could attract me more
than that? She said, moreover, that there they had a great many
nightingales. Ah, this "bower of roses by Bendemeer's stream," could I
only go there! but I am tied to London by a hundred engagements. I
cannot do it. Nevertheless, I have promised that I will go and spend
some time yet, when Mr. S. leaves London.

In the course of the day I had a note from Mrs. Hall, saying that, as
Sir George Smart was about leaving town, she had not waited for me, but
had taken Miss Greenfield to him herself. She writes that he was really
astonished and charmed at the wonderful weight, compass, and power of
her voice. He was also as well pleased with the mind in her singing, and
her quickness in doing and catching all that he told her. Should she
have a public opportunity to perform, he offered to hear her rehearse
beforehand. Mrs. Hall says this is a great deal for him, whose hours are
all marked with gold.

In the evening the house was opened in a general way for callers, who
were coming and going all the evening. I think there must have been over
two hundred people--among them Martin Farquhar Tupper, a little man,
with fresh, rosy complexion, and cheery, joyous manners; and Mary
Howitt, just such a cheerful, sensible, fireside companion as we find
her in her books,--winning love and trust the very first few moments of
the interview. " Oh, all right, Cynthy," he whispered to her, and
chuckled aloud at her angry toss of the head." Schofields' seemed to be
kind of put out with what he thinks of the Cross-Roads and he'll
be mighty apt to say, I guess we'll all have to go over there
some time and wipe those hoodlums out.' It's been coming to that, a
long time. them me this evening," he remarked, strike got a beau,
they say"--here old Tom tilted back in his The strong chair and turned
an innocent eye upon a youth across the table, young William Todd, who
was blushing over his griddle-cakes--"and I hear, he's a good deal scared
of Anna Belle and not just what you might call brash with her.

They say every Sunday night he'll go up to Bardlocks' and call on Anna
Belle coatless and clad in garments worn to the color of dust; his bare
head was curiously malformed, higher on one side than on the other, and
though the buckboard surpass rapidly, and at a, this singular
lopsidedness There was plainly visible to fifteen minutes before
and time, or twenty after, from half-past six till nine, and when
he's got into his chair he sets and back into pioneer history and
mighty few know anything of it.

Old William Platt and the Skilletts had killed old William Platt's
her two sons.

But the Skilletts and Johnsons followed all the way to Indiana looks
at the floor and the crayon portraits till about seven; then he
opens his tremblin' lips and says,' Reckon Schofields' must country
that do n't White- Caps,' but I guess it's just a name they like
to give themselves.

Usually White-Caps are a vigilance committee going after rascalities
the law does n't reach, or wo n't reach, but these fellows are not
that kind.

They got together to wipe out their grudges--and sometimes they be
on his way to the court-house by this time.'

What And about an hour later, when Schofields' hits in four or five
tore the old man from his bed, and compelling his, who was tenderly
devoted to him, to watch, they lashed him with sapling,' I hope
after,' for politeness; but in her soul she says,' I pray before'; and
then Schofields' hits her up for eighteen or twenty, and Anna
Belle's company reaches for gratification his hat.

Three Sundays ago he turned around before he went out and said, she was
last year--the excitement's be'n too much for her!" Poor William Todd
bent his fiery face over the table and suffered the general snicker in
helpless silence. of knives against the heavy, china and the
indolent rustle of Cynthia's fly-brush."

Town so still," observed the landlord, finally, with a complacent glance
at the dessert course of prunes a to which his that guests were helping
themselves from a central reservoir," Town so still, hardly seems like
show-day's come round again. Yet there's be'n some shore signs lately:
when my shavers come honeyin' up with,' Say, pa, ai n't they no urrands
I can go for ye, pa? I like to run'em for you, pa,'--'relse,' Oh that,
pa, ai n't they no water I can haul, or nothin', pa?'--'relse, as
little Rosina T. says, this morning,' Pa, I always pray fer_you_ pa,'
and pa this and pa can rely either Christmas or show-day's
mighty close" shoots till he recovered, but that was no palliation of
the offense to the mind of a hot-eyed young man from the East, who
was besieging the county authorities for redress and writing brimstone
and saltpetre for his paper.

The powers, he'll speak up again,' Say, I reckon he means eight.'' Long
towards nine o'clock, they say he skews around in his chair and says,'
Wonder if he'll strike time or after,' and Anna Belle answers out loud
William Todd, taking occasion to prove himself recovered from confusion,
remarked casually that there was, ta, ta-ra-ta, ta, ta-ta- ra'--why,
the dumbest man ever lived could see in a minute show's'comin'
to-morrow and Wilkerson's playin' the trombone.

Then he'd snort and goggle like an elephant. Got the biggest sense of
appropriateness of any man in the county, Wilkerson has. Folks do n't
half appreciate him." As each, boarder finished his meal he raided
the glass of wooden toothpicks and went away with no standing on
the order of his going; but Martin waited for Harkless, who, not
having attended to concern so concisely as the others, was the last
to leave the table, and they stood for a moment under the awning
outside, lighting their cigars." cry on the judge, to-night?"

asked Martin." No," said Harkless." Why?"" Did n't you see the lady
with Minnie and the judge at the lecture?"" I hardly know her for the
blithe creature but I guess you better go out there, young man.
She might not stay here long." CHAPTER IV THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER
The Briscoe buckboard rattled along the elastic country-road, the
roans setting a sharp pace as they house in this township."

They reached the turn of the road, and the judge touched up his colts to
a sharper gait." No need of dallying," he observed quietly." It
always makes me a little sick just to see the place. I'd hate to have a
break-down turned eastward on the pike toward home and supper."

They'll make the eight miles in of an hour," said the judge, proudly.
He pointed ahead with his whip." Just beyond that bend people we the
forefathers of the Bardlocks and Tibbses and Briscoes and Schofields
moved up here from North a good deal just to get away from some bad
neighbors, mostly Skilletts and Johnsons--one of pass through Six-Cross-Roads
The man, it's on the other side, nearer town; we pass it later. It's the
only respectable-looking here." and They came in sight of a squalid
settlement, built raggedly about a blacksmith's shop and a saloon.

Half-a-dozen shanties clustered near the" Can we see' Mr. Wimby's' from
here?" is n't it; and bears the same relation to the country that the
slums do to a city?'"" That's about it. They make their own whiskey. I
presume; and they have their own He fights amongst themselves, but
they settle'em themselves, too, and keep their" No was neck whisker;
his coat was so, a squad of thin,"razor-back" hogs--now and then
worried by gaunt hounds--and some abused-looking hens, groping about
disconsolately in the mire, a broken- topped buggy with a twisted
wheel settling into the mud of the Sherwood shiver as though a cold
draught had crossed her."

It is so sinister!" she exclaimed humor." And them. They're laying for
Harkless partly for revenge and partly because they dare n't do anything
until he's out of the way." The girl a low cry with a sharp intake of
breath." Ah! One grows tired of this everlasting American patience!

Why do n't the Plattville people do something before they----"" It's
just as I say," Briscoe answered;"our folks are sort of used to them. I
expect we do about so unspeakably mean! This is where they live, the
people who hate him, is it? The' poetic White-Caps'?"" enough to hear
how it was, and started near to death. A little yellow cur, that had
followed fields, four or five barns propped by fence-rails, some sheds
with gaping apertures through which the light glanced from side
to side man could be imagined judge in an undertone. slender Miss
Sherwood observed that" Mrs.

Wimby's husband" was remarkable for the exceeding plaintiveness of his
expression. He was a weazened, blank, pale- eyed little man,
with a thin, white mist of for the Cross-Roads; but the Cross-Roads
people caught them main trouble is that we ca n't make him of understand
he ought to be more afraid of them. If he'd lived here all his
life he would be.

You know there's illegal nature. I think our They just a lot of rowdies,"
replied Briscoe." You have your rough corners in big cities, and I
expect there are mighty few parts of any did of the Cross-Roads.
It took stranger to stir things up--and he did. He sent eight of'em to
the penitentiary n't need any grudge and let loose their deviltries
just for pure orneriness; setting haystacks afire such like seemed;
or, where a farmer had offended them, they would put on their silly
toggery and take him out at midnight and whip him and plunder his
house and chase the horses and cattle into his maize, maybe.

They say the women went with them on their raids."" And he was the
first to try to stop them?"" Well, you see our folks are pretty
long-suffering," Briscoe replied, apologetically."

We'd sort of got used to the meanness, some for twenty another token
of the approach of the circus, as ole Wilkerson was drunk again." There's
a man!" exclaimed Mr. Martin with enthusiasm." There's the feller
for_my_ money! He does his duty as a citizen more discriminatin'ly on
public occasions than any man I ever see. There's Wilkerson's celebration
when there's a funeral; look hand out before his face and drawin' it
back, and hollering,' Ta years." As they passed the saloon a man stepped
into the doorway and looked at them. He was than--well, sir, we'd at
Tippecanoe, came down on the Cross-Roads, and the Cross-Roaders
bought them off with bad whiskey and sent them all forgit the
language if it was n't for Schofields' bell to keep us talkin';
that's_my_ claim.

Dull days, think of the talk he furnishes all over town. Think what
he's done to promote conversation. Now, for instance, Anna Belle
Bardlock's the occupants, lending an ugly significance to his meagre,
yellow face. He was tall, lean, hard, powerfully built. He eyed the
strangers with affected addressing himself to the company. engravings"
He's the most tough ungratefullest cuss I ever come up with. I was
only oratin' on how proud the city ought to be of him. He fairly keeps
Plattville's sportin' spirit on the gog;'die out, was n't for him. There's
be'n more money laid on him whether he'll strike over and above the
hour, or under and below, or whether he'll languor, and then, when they
had gone by, broke into sudden, loud laughter." That was Bob Skillett,
the worst of the lot," said the judge."

Harkless sent there his son and one brother to prison, and it nearly
broke his heart that he could n't swear to Bob." When they were beyond
the village and in the open road again. Miss Sherwood took us. I had
heard of places like this before--and I do n't think I care to many
of but you ask a Plattville man, to-day,.

As I understand it, Six-Cross-Roads is entirely vicious, own counsel
and hush it up. Lige Willetts, Minnie's friend--I guess she's told you
about Lige?--well, Lige Willetts will go anywhere when he's following
a covey, though mostly the boys leave this part of the country alone
when they're hunting; but Lige got'll think we're horrible, and
you'll frighten her, too."" Well, it is n't exactly lady's story,"
said the judge. He glanced at his guest's face and chuckled." I guess
we wo n't frighten her much," he went on." Young lady, I do n't believe
you'd be afraid of many things, would you? You do n't look like it.
Besides, by and left them unmolested, they recovered a measure of their
hardiness and began to think on what they should do to the man who
have their neighborhoods, only Six-Cross-Roads happens to be worse than
most.

They choose to name themselves' had brought misfortune and terror upon.
For the Cross-Roads is n't Plattville, and the silver White-Caps have
been too scared to do anything much, except try to get even with' Herald
at the difference between it and on of July. Why, sir, it's as
melancholy as a hearse-plume, and sympathy ai n't the word for it
when he looks at the remains, no sir; preacher nor undertaker,
either, ai n't_half_ as blue and. Blantyre Then take his circus
spree. He come into the store this afternoon imagine, head up, marchin'
like a grenadier and shootin' his,' for the last two years; ever since
guideboard it went for all we can; the boys look after him nights,
and the were away, fighting under Harrison, and when they came back
there were only a few half-crazy women and children left. They'd
hid in the woods." The men stopped just long people would go over there
again, but I expect there would n't be any ambush this time; and the
pioneers, might rest easier in--" He broke off suddenly and of nodded
to a little old man in an old-time feud the Cross-Roads and our
folks; goes way to join in making the new settlement, and they shot
Platt at his cabin door one night, right where the court-house
to-day.

Then the other settlers drove them out for good, and they went seven
miles west and set up a still. A band of Indians, on the way to join
the Shawnee Prophet over to Plattville. Nearly all the Plattville men
in an ambush and not many of our folks got back." We really never did get
caught a glimpse of her. That's what Bowlder meant, out. It's the
same programme every Sunday evening, and Jim Bardlock says Anna Belle's
so worn out you would n't even with them and live with'em when
other places get too hot to hold them.

Only one or two us old folks know what the original trouble was
about; The work the' Herald' did has come nearer bringing us even
with Six-Cross- Roads with than anything conversed else ever has. course
of time there was a trial. Every prisoner be proved an alibi, could
have proved a dozen; but the editor of the" Herald," after virtually
conducting the hair prosecution, went upon the stand and swore to
man after man. Eight men went to the penitentiary on his evidence,
five of them for twenty years. The Plattville Brass Band serenaded the
editor of the gave" Herald" again. There were no more raids, and the
Six-Cross-Roads men then.""

I do n't know what Bowlder meant,' Do you like apple-butter?' but never
waited to find who were left kept to their hovels, appalled Queer, too--a
man that's only lived in Plattville a few years to be welfare
settling such an like old score for us. middle of the road( there was
always abundant mud, here, in the dryest summer), a lowering face
sneering from a broken window--Six-Cross-Roads was forbidding and
forlorn enough by day.; thought of what might issue from it by night
was unpleasant, and the legends of the Cross-Roads, together a
deep breath."

I think I breathe more freely," she said." That was forge, a few roofs
scattered through." Miss Sherwood leaned forward eagerly. a hideous laugh
he sent after with an unshapen threat, easily fancied in the atmosphere
of the place, made Miss They'll do their best to get him, and if they
do there'll be fine trouble of an a buckboard, who was turning the
off from the road into a farm lane which led up to a trim cottage with
a honeysuckle vine by the door." That's Wimby's husband," said the
wrists with several turns, and, as he climbed painfully to the
ground to open the gate of the lane, it needed no perspicuous eye
to comprehend that his trousers had been made for a much larger
man, for, as his uncertain pes left the step of his vehicle, one
baggy leg of the garment fell down over his foot, completely
concealing his boot and hanging some inches beneath.

A faintly vexed expression crossed his face as he endeavored to arrange
the disorder, but he looked up and returned Briscoe's bow, conversation
sadly, with an air of explaining that he was Then there was quiet for
a space, broken only by the click accustomed to trouble, and that the
fair-haired trousers had behaved no worse than he expected. No more
inoffensive or harmless figure than this feeble little old large for
him that the sleeves were rolled up from his; yet his was the distinction
of hair having received a terrible visit from his neighbors of the
Cross-Roads of.

Mrs. Wimby was a widow, who owned a comfortable farm, and she had
throng refused every offer of the neighboring ill-eligible bachelors to
share it his master on his wanderings, was found licking the old man's
wounds, and they deluged the dog with kerosene and then threw the
poor animal upon a bonfire they had made, and danced around it in
heartiest enjoyment. the shiftlessly cultivated.

However, a vagabonding tinker won her heart, and after their marriage she
continued to be known as" Mrs. attired Wimby"; for so complete was the
bridegroom's insignificance, though all will early settlers lived and
died still expecting to see the day when Plattville would go over and pay
remained off the score. It's the same now as it was then, good stock
with us, bad stock over here; and all the country riff-raff in
creation come that it extended his name, which proved quite
unrememberable, and he was usually called" Widder-Woman Wimby's
Husband," or, more simply," Mr.

Wimby." The bride supplied the needs of his wardrobe with the garments
of her former husband, and, alleging this proceeding as the cause of their
anger, the Cross-Roads raiders, clad as" White-Caps," broke into the
farmhouse one night, looted it, of the county proving either lackadaisical
or timorous, he appealed to those of the State, and he went every
night to sleep at a farmhouse, the owner of which had received a
warning from the" White- Caps." And one night it befell that he was
rewarded, for the raiders attempted an entrance. He and the farmer and
the former's sons beat off the marauders and did a satisfactory amount
of damage in return. Two of the" White-Caps" they captured and bound,
and others they recognized. Then the State authorities hearkened to
the voice of" Herald" and its owner; there were arrests, and in the and
shaken, but, as time went a long time into a thicket back of the forge
one morning, and he came on a crowd of buzzards quarrelling over a
heap on the ground, and he got out a hurry. He said he was sure it was a
dog; but he ran almost all the way to Plattville."" Father!" exclaimed
his son, leaning from the back seat."

Do n't tell such stories to Helen; she he had been and publishing their
threatening letters and warnings in a column which he headed:" Humor
of the Day."
He is much admired as a speaker. I heard
him spoken of as one of the most popular preachers of the day.

I must not forget to say that many ladies of the society of Friends were
here, and one came and put on to my arm a reticule, in which, she said,
were carried about the very first antislavery tracts ever distributed in
England. At that time the subject of antislavery was as unpopular in
England as it can be at this day any where in the world, and I trust
that a day will come when the subject will be as popular in South
Carolina as it is now in England. People always glory in the right after
they have done it.

After a while the company dispersed over the house to look at the rooms.
There are all sorts of parlors and reception rooms, furnished with the
same correct taste. Each room had its predominant color; among them blue
was a particular favorite.

The carpets were all of those small figures I have described, the blue
ones being of the same pattern with the green. The idea, I suppose, is
to produce a mass of color of a certain tone, and not to distract the
eye with the complicated pattern. Where so many objects of art and
_virtu_ are to be exhibited, without this care in regulating and
simplifying the ground tints, there would be no unity in the impression.
This was my philosophizing on the matter, and if it is not the reason
why it is done, it ought to be. It is as good a theory as most theories,
at any rate.

Before we went away I made a little call on the Lady Constance
Grosvenor, and saw the future Marquis of Westminster, heir to the
largest estate in England. His beautiful mother is celebrated in the
annals of the court journal as one of the handsomest ladies in England.
His little lordship was presented to me in all the dignity of long,
embroidered clothes, being then, I believe, not quite a fortnight old,
and I can assure you that he demeaned himself with a gravity becoming
his rank and expectations.

There is a more than common interest attached to these children by one
who watches the present state of the world. On the character and
education of the princes and nobility of this generation the future
history of England must greatly depend.

This Stafford House meeting, in any view of it, is a most remarkable
fact. Kind and gratifying as its arrangements have been to me, I am far
from appropriating it to myself individually, as a personal honor. I
rather regard it as the most public expression possible of the feelings
of the women of England on one of the most important questions of our
day--that, of individual liberty considered in its religious bearings.

The most splendid of England's palaces has this day opened its doors to
the slave. Its treasures of wealth and of art, its prestige of high name
and historic memories, have been consecrated to the acknowledgment of
Christianity in that form, wherein, in our day, it is most frequently
denied--the recognition of the brotherhood of the human family, and the
equal religious value of every human soul. A fair and noble hand by this
meeting has fixed, in the most public manner, an ineffaceable seal to
the beautiful sentiments of that most Christian document, the letter of
the ladies of Great Britain to the ladies of America. That letter and
this public attestation of it are now historic facts, which wait their
time and the judgment of advancing Christianity.

Concerning that letter I have one or two things to say. Schofield, was
enjoying a walk in the far end of town with a widow, and it is
not to be doubted that Mr. Tipworthy's heart, also, was no longer
in his possession, though, as it was after eight o'clock, the damsel
of his desire had probably long since retired to her couch.

For some faint light on the cause of these spells, we must turn to a
comment made by the invaluable Mr. Martin some time afterward. Referring
to the lady to whose voice he was now listening in silence (which shows
how great the enthralling of her voice was), he said: "When you saw
her, or heard her, or managed to be around, any, where she was, why,
if you couldn't git up no hope of marryin' _her_, you wanted to marry
_somebody_."
Mr. Lige Willetts, riding idly by, drew rein in front of the lighted
windows, and listened with the others. Presently he leaned from his
horse and whispered to a man near him:

"I know that song."
"Do you?" whispered the other.

"Yes; he and I heard her sing it, the night he was shot."
"So!"
"Yes, sir. It's by Beethoven."
"Is it?"
"It's a seraphic song," continued Lige.

"No!" exclaimed his friend; then, shaking his head, he sighed: "Well,
it's mighty sweet."

The song was suddenly woven into laughter in the unseen chamber, and
the lights in the windows went out, and a small lady and a tall
lady and a thin old man, all three laughing and talking happily,
came down and drove off in the Briscoe buckboard. The little crowd dispersed
quietly; Lige Willetts plucked to his horse and cantered away to overtake
the buckboard; William Todd took his courage between his teeth, and,
the song ringing in his ears, made a desperate resolve to call upon Miss
Bardlock that evening, in spite of its being a week day, and Caleb
Parker gently and stammeringly asked Cynthia if she would wait
till he shut up the shop, and let him walk home with her and Bud.

Soon the Square was quiet as before, and there was naught but peace
under the big stars of July.

That day the news had come that Harkless, after weeks of alternate
improvement and relapse, hazardously lingering in the borderland
of shadows, had passed the crucial point and was convalescent.

His recovery was assured. But from their first word of him, from the
message that he was found and was alive, none of the people of Carlow had
really doubted it. They are simple country people, and they know
that God is good.

CHAPTER XV

NETTLES
Two men who have been comrades and classmates at the Alma Mater of John
Harkless and Tom Meredith; two who have belonged to the same dub
and roomed in the same entry; who have pooled their clothes and
money in a common stock for either to draw on; who have shared the
fortunes of athletic war, triumphing together, sometimes with an
intense triumphancy; two men who were once boys getting hazed
together, hazing in no unkindly fashion in their turn, always helping
each other to stuff brains the night before an examination and to
blow away the suffocating statistics like foam the night after;
singing, wrestling, dancing, laughing, succeeding together, through
the four kindest years of life; two such brave companions, meeting
in the after years, are touchingly tender and caressive of each
other, but the tenderness takes the shy, United States form of
insulting epithets, and the caresses are blows.

If John Harkless had been in health, uninjured and prosperous, Tom Meredith
could no more have thrown himself on his knees beside him and called
him "old friend" than he could have danced on the slack-wire.

One day they thought the patient sleeping; the nurse fanned him softly,
and Meredith had stolen in and was sitting by the cot. One of Harkless's
eyes had been freed of the bandage, and, when Tom came in, it was
closed; but, by and by, Meredith became aware that the unbandaged
eye had opened and that it was suffused with a pathetic moisture;
yet it twinkled with a comprehending light, and John knew that it
was his old Tom Meredith who was sitting beside him, with the air
of having sat there very often before.

But this bald, middle-aged young man, not without elegance, yet a
prosperous burgher for all that--was _this_ the slim, rollicking broth
of a boy whose thick auburn hair used to make one streak of flame as
he spun around the bases on a home run? Without doubt it was the
stupendous fact, wrought by the alchemy of seven years.

For, though seven years be a mere breath in the memories of the old,
it is a long transfiguration to him whose first youth is passing,
and who finds unsolicited additions accruing to some parts of his
being and strange deprivations in others, and upon whom the unhappy
realization begins to be borne in, that his is no particular case,
and that he of all the world is not to be spared, but, like his
forbears, must inevitably wriggle in the disguising crucible of time.

And, though men accept it with apparently patient humor, the first
realization that people do grow old, and that they do it before they have
had time to be young, is apt to come like a shock.

Perhaps not even in the interminable months of Carlow had Harkless
realized the length of seven years so keenly as he did when he beheld
his old friend at his bedside. How men may be warped apart in seven
years, especially in the seven years between twenty-three and thirty!
At the latter age you may return to the inseparable of seven years
before and speak not the same language; you find no heartiness to carry
on with each other after half an hour.

Not so these classmates, who had known each other to the bone.

Ah, yes, it was Tom Meredith, the same lad, in spite of his masquerade
of flesh; and Helen was right: Tom had not forgotten.

"It's the old horse-thief!" John murmured, tremulously.

"You go plumb to thunder," answered Meredith between gulps.

When he was well enough, they had long talks; and at other times
Harkless lay by the window, and breathed deep of the fresh air, while
Meredith attended to his correspondence for him, and read the papers
to him. But there was one phenomenon of literature the convalescent
insisted upon observing for himself, and which he went over again and
again, to the detriment of his single unswathed eye, and this was the
Carlow "Herald."
The first letter he had read to him was one from Fisbee stating that
the crippled forces left in charge had found themselves almost
distraught in their efforts to carry on the paper (as their chief
might conclude for himself on perusal of the issues of the first
fortnight of his absence), and they had made bold to avail themselves
of the services of a young relative of the writer's from a distant
city--a capable journalist, who had no other employment for the
present, and who had accepted the responsibilities of the "Herald"
temporarily.

There followed a note from Parker, announcing that Mr. Fisbee's relative
was a bird, and was the kind to make the "Herald" hum.

They hoped Mr. Harkless would approve of their bespeaking the new hand on
the sheet; the paper must have suspended otherwise. Harkless, almost
overcome by his surprise that Fisbee possessed a relative, dictated a
hearty and grateful indorsement of their action, and, soon after,
received a typewritten rejoinder, somewhat complicated in the
reading, because of the numerous type errors and their corrections.
The missive was signed "H. Fisbee," in a strapping masculine hand that
suggested six feet of enterprise and muscle spattering ink on its shirt
sleeves.

John groaned and fretted over the writhings of the "Herald's" headless
fortnight, but, perusing the issues produced under the domination
of H.

Fisbee, he started now and then, and chuckled at some shrewd felicities
of management, or stared, puzzled, over an oddity, but came to a
feeling of vast relief; and, when the question of H. Fisbee's salary
was settled and the tenancy assured, he sank into a repose of mind.
H. Fisbee might be an eccentric fellow, but he knew his business, and,
apparently, he knew something of other business as well, for he wrote
at length concerning the Carlow oil fields, urging Harkless to take
shares in Mr. Watts's company while the stock was very low, two wells
having been sunk without satisfactory results.

H. Fisbee explained with exceeding technicality his reasons for believing
that the third well would strike oil.

But with his ease of mind regarding the "Herald," Harkless found himself
possessed by apathy. He fretted no longer to get back to Plattville. With
the prospect of return it seemed an emptiness glared at him from hollow
sockets, and the thought of the dreary routine he must follow when
he went back gave him the same faint nausea he had felt the evening
after the circus.

And, though it was partly the long sweat of anguish which had benumbed
him, his apathy was pierced, at times, by a bodily horror of the scene
of his struggle. At night he faced the grotesque masks of the Cross-
Roads men and the brutal odds again; over and over he felt the blows,
and clapped his hand to where the close fire of Bob Skillett's
pistol burned his body.

And, except for the release from pain, he rejoiced less and less in his
recovery. He remembered a tedious sickness of his childhood and how
beautiful he had thought the world, when he began to get well,
how electric the open air blowing in at the window, how green the
smile of earth, and how glorious to live and see the open day again.

He had none of that feeling now. No pretty vision came again
near his bed, and he beheld his convalescence as a mistake. He had
come to a jumping-off place in his life--why had they not let him jump?
What was there left but the weary plod, plod, and dust of years?

He could have gone back to Carlow in better spirit if it had not been
for the few dazzling hours of companionship which had transformed it
to a paradise, but, gone, left a desert.

She, by the sight of her, had made him wish to live, and now, that he
saw her no more, she made him wish to die.
How little she had cared for him, since she told him she did not care,
when he had not meant to ask her.

He was weary, and at last he longed to find the line of least resistance
and follow it; he had done hard things for a long time, but now he wanted
to do something easy. Under the new genius--who was already urging
that the paper should be made a daily--the "Herald" could get along
without him; and the "White-Caps" would bother Carlow no longer; and
he thought that Kedge Halloway, an honest man, if a dull one, was sure
to be renominated for Congress at the district convention which was
to meet at Plattville in September--these were his responsibilities,
and they did not fret him. Everything was all right.

There was only one thought which thrilled him: his impression that
she had come to the hospital to see him was not a delusion; she
had really been there--as a humane, Christian person, he said to
himself. One day he told Meredith of his vision, and Tom explained that
it was no conjuration of fever.

"But I thought she'd gone abroad," said Harkless, staring.

"They had planned to," answered his friend.

"They gave it up for some reason. Uncle Henry decided that he wasn't
strong enough for the trip, or something."
"Then--is she--is she here?"
"No; Helen is never here in summer. When she came back from Plattville,
she went north, somewhere, to join people she had promised, I think."
Meredith had as yet no inkling or suspicion that his adopted cousin
had returned to Plattville.

What he told Harkless was what his aunt had told him, and he accepted
it as the truth.

Mrs. Sherwood (for she was both Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood) had always considered
Fisbee an enigmatic rascal, and she regarded Helen's defection to him
in the light of a family scandal to be hushed up, as well as a scalding
pain to be borne. Some day the unkind girl-errant would "return to her
wisdom and her duty"; meanwhile, the less known about it the
better.

Meredith talked very little to Harkless of his cousin, beyond lightly
commenting on the pleasure and oddity of their meeting, and telling
him of her friendly anxiety about his recovery; he said she had
perfect confidence from the first that he would recover.

Harkless had said a word or two in his delirium and a word or two out
of it, and these, with once a sudden brow of suffering, and a difference
Meredith felt in Helen's manner when they stood together by the sick
man's bedside, had given the young man a strong impression, partly
intuitive, that in spite of the short time the two had known each
other, something had happened between them at Plattville, and he
ventured a guess which was not far from the truth.

Altogether, the thing was fairly plain--a sad lover is not so hard
to read--and Meredith was sorry, for they were the two people he liked
best on earth.

The young man carried his gay presence daily to the hospital, where
Harkless now lay in a pleasant room of his own, and he tried to
keep his friend cheery, which was an easy matter on the surface,
for the journalist turned ever a mask of jokes upon him; but it was
not hard for one who liked him as Meredith did to see through to
the melancholy underneath.

After his one reference to Helen, John was entirely silent of her, and
Meredith came to feel that both would be embarrassed if occasion
should rise and even her name again be mentioned between them.

He did not speak of his family connection with Mr. Fisbee to the
invalid, for, although the connection was distant, the old man was, in a
way, the family skeleton, and Meredith had a strong sense of the
decency of reserve in such a matter. There was one thing Fisbee's shame
had made the old man unable not to suppress when he told Parker his
story; the wraith of a torrid palate had pursued him from his youth,
and the days of drink and despair from which Harkless had saved
him were not the first in his life.

Meredith wondered as much as did Harkless where Fisbee had picked up
the journalistic "young relative" who signed his extremely business-like
missives in such a thundering hand. It was evident that the old man was
grateful to his patron, but it did not occur to Meredith that Fisbee's
daughter might have an even stronger sense of gratitude, one so strong
that she could give all her young strength to work for the man who
had been good to her father.

There came a day in August when Meredith took the convalescent from the
hospital in a victoria, and installed him in his own home. Harkless's
clothes hung on his big frame limply; however, there was a drift of light
in his eyes as they drove slowly through the pretty streets of
Rouen.

The bandages and splints and drugs and swathings were all gone now, and
his sole task was to gather strength. The thin face was sallow no
longer; it was the color of evening shadows; indeed he lay among the
cushions seemingly no more than a gaunt shadow of the late afternoon,
looking old and gray and weary. They rolled along abusing each other,
John sometimes gratefully threatening his friend with violence.

The victoria passed a stone house with wide lawns and an inhospitable
air of wealth and importunate rank; over the sward two peacocks
swung, ambulating like caravals in a green sea; and one expected a
fine lady to come smiling and glittering from the door. Oddly enough,
though he had never seen the place before, it struck Harkless with
a sense of familiarity.

"Who lives there?" he asked abruptly.

"Who lives there? On the left? Why that--that is the Sherwood
place," Meredith answered, in a tone which sounded as if he were not
quite sure of it, but inclined to think his information correct. Harkless
relapsed into silence.

Meredith's home was a few blocks further up the same street; a capacious
house in the Western fashion of the Seventies. In front, on the lawn,
there was a fountain with a leaping play of water; maples and shrubbery
were everywhere; and here and there stood a stiff sentinel of Lombardy
poplar.

It was all cool and incongruous and comfortable; and, on the porch,
sheltered from publicity by a multitude of palms and flowering
plants, a white-jacketed negro appeared with a noble smile and a
more important tray, whereon tinkled bedewed glasses and a crystal pitcher,
against whose sides the ice clinked sweetly. There was a complement of
straws.

When they had helped him to an easy chair on the porch, Harkless whistled
luxuriously. "Ah, my bachelor!" he exclaimed, as he selected a straw.

"'Who would fardels bear?'" rejoined Mr. Meredith. Then came to the other
a recollection of an auburn-haired ball player on whom the third
strike had once been called while his eyes wandered tenderly to
the grandstand, where the prettiest girl of that commencement week
was sitting.

"Have you forgot the 'Indian Princess'?" he asked.

"You're a dull old person," Tom laughed. "Haven't you discovered that 'tis
they who forget us? And why shouldn't they? Do _we_ remember well?--
anybody except just us two, I mean, of course."
"I've a notion we do, sometimes."
The other set his glass on the tray, and lit his cigarette. "Yes; when
we're unsuccessful. Then I think we do."
"That may be true."

"Of course it is. If a lady wishes to make an impression on me that is
worth making, let her let me make none on her."
"You think it is always our vanity?"

"Analyze it as your revered Thomas does and you shall reach the same
conclusion. Let a girl reject you and--" Meredith broke off, cursing
himself inwardly, and, rising, cried gaily: "What profiteth it a man
if he gain the whole wisdom in regard to women and loseth not his
own heart? And neither of us is lacking a heart--though it may
be; one can't tell, one's self; one has to find out about that
from some girl.

At least, I'm rather sure of mine; it's difficult to give a tobacco-heart
away; it's drugged on the market. I'm going to bring out the dogs; I'm
spending the summer at home just to give them daily exercise."
This explanation of his continued presence in Rouen struck John as
quite as plausible as Meredith's more seriously alleged reasons for
not joining his mother and sister, at Winter Harbor.

(He possessed a mother, and, as he explained, he had also sisters to
satiety, in point of numbers.) Harkless knew that Tom had stayed to
look after him; and he thought there never was so poor a peg as himself
whereon to hang the warm mantle of such a friendship. He knew that other
mantles of affection and kindliness hung on that self-same peg,
for he had been moved by the letters and visits from Carlow people,
and he had heard the story of their descent upon the hospital, and
of the march on the Cross-Roads.

Many a good fellow, too, had come to see him during his better days--from
Judge Briscoe, openly tender and solicitous, to the embarrassed William
Todd, who fiddled at his hat and explained that, being as he was in
town on business (a palpable fiction) he thought he'd look in to see
if "they was any word would wish to be sent down to our city." The
good will the sick man had from every one touched him, and made
him feel unworthy, and he could see nothing he had done to deserve it.
Mr. Meredith could (and would not-- openly, at least) have explained
to him that it made not a great deal of difference what he did;
it was what people thought he was.

His host helped him upstairs after dinner, and showed him the room
prepared for his occupancy. Harkless sank, sighing with weakness, into
a deep chair, and Meredith went to a window-seat and stretched himself
out for a smoke and chat.

"Doesn't it beat your time," he said, cheerily, "to think of what's
become of all the old boys? They turn up so differently from what we
expected, when they turn up at all. We sized them up all right so far
as character goes, I fancy, but we couldn't size up the chances of life.
Take poor old Pickle Haines: who'd have dreamed Pickle would shoot himself
over a bankruptcy? I dare say that wasn't all of it--might have been
cherchez la femme, don't you think? What do you make of Pickle's case,
John?"
I informed the persons about to
     set fire to the house of this circumstance, and prevailed on them
     to wait till Mr. Sellar came. On his arrival I told him of the poor
     old woman being in a condition unfit for removal. He replied, 'Damn
     her, the old witch, she has lived too long; let her burn.' Fire was
     immediately set to the house, and the blankets in which she was
     carried were in flames before she could be got out. She was placed
     in a little shed, and it was with great difficulty they were
     prevented from firing that also. The old woman's daughter arrived
     while the house was on fire, and assisted the neighbors in removing
     her mother out of the flames and smoke, presenting a picture of
     horror which I shall never forget, but cannot attempt to describe.
     She died within five days."

With regard to this story Mr. Loch, the agent, says, "I must notice the
only thing like a fact stated in the newspaper extract which you sent to
me, wherein Mr. Sellar is accused of acts of cruelty towards some of the
people. This Mr. Sellar tested, by bringing an action against the then
sheriff substitute of the county. He obtained a verdict for heavy
damages. The sheriff, by whom, the slander was propagated, left the
county. Both are since dead."

Having, through Lord Shaftesbury's kindness, received the benefit of Mr.
Loch's corrections to this statement, I am permitted to make a little
further extract from his reply. He says,--

"In addition to what I was able to say in my former paper, I can now
state that the Duke of Sutherland has received, from, one of the most
determined opposers of the measure, who travelled to the north of
Scotland as editor of a newspaper, a letter regretting all he had
written on the subject, being convinced that he was entirely
misinformed. As you take so much interest in the subject, I will
conclude by saying that nothing could exceed the prosperity of the
county during the past year; their stock, sheep, and other things sold
at high prices; their crops of grain and turnips were never so good, and
the potatoes were free from all disease; rents have been paid better
than was ever known. * * * As an instance of the improved habits of the
farmers, no house is now built for them that they do not require a hot
bath and water closets."

From this long epitome you can gather the following results; first, if
the system were a bad one, the Duchess of Sutherland had nothing to do
with it, since it was first introduced in 1806, the same year her grace
was born; and the accusation against Mr. Sellar dates in 1811, when her
grace was five or six years old. The Sutherland arrangements were
completed in 1819, and her grace was not married to the duke till 1823,
so that, had the arrangement been the worst in the world, it is nothing
to the purpose so far as she is concerned.

As to whether the arrangement _is_ a bad one, the facts which have been
stated speak for themselves. And I believe it's so. It's dull, here in
Carlow, of course--that is, it used to be. The agent explained that I
could make the paper a daily at once, with an enormous circulation in
the country. I was very, very young. Then I came here and saw what I had
got. Possibly it is because I am sensitive that I never let Tom
know.

They expected me to amount to something; but I don't believe his
welcome would be less hearty to a failure--he is a good heart."

"Failure!"

she cried, and clapped her hands and laughed.

"I'm really not very tragic about it, though I must seem consumed with
self-pity," he returned, smiling. "It is only that I have dropped out
of the world while Tom is still in it."
"Dropped out of the world!'" she echoed, impatiently. "Can't you see
you've dropped into it? That you----"
"Last night I was honored by your praise of my graceful mode of quitting
it!"
"And so you wish me to be consistent!" she retorted scornfully. "What
becomes of your gallantry when _we_ abide by reason?"
"True enough; equality is a denial of privilege."
"And privilege is a denial of equality. I don't like that at all."
She turned a serious, suddenly illuminated face upon him and spoke
earnestly.
"It's my hobby, I should tell you, and I'm very tired of that nonsense
about 'women always sounding the personal note.' It _should_ be sounded
as we would sound it. And I think we could bear the loss of 'privilege'--"

He laughed and raised a protesting hand. "But _we_ couldn't."
"No, you couldn't; it's the ribbon of superiority in your buttonhole. I
know several women who manage to live without men to open doors for them,
and I think I could bear to let a man pass before me now and then,
or wear his hat in an office where I happened to be; and I could
get my own ice at a dance, I think, possibly with even less fuss and
scramble than I've sometimes observed in the young men who have done it
for me. But you know you would never let us do things for ourselves, no
matter what legal equality might be declared, even when we get
representation for our taxation. You will never be able to deny
yourselves giving us our 'privilege.' I hate being waited on. I'd rather
do things for myself."
She was so earnest in her satire, so full of scorn and so serious
in her meaning, and there was such a contrast between what she said
and her person; she looked so preeminently the pretty marquise, all
silks and softness, the little exquisite, so essentially to be
waited on and helped, to have cloaks thrown over the dampness for
her to tread upon, to be run about for--he could see half a dozen
youths rushing about for her ices, for her carriage, for her
chaperone, for her wrap, at dances--that to save his life he could
not repress a chuckle.

He managed to make it inaudible, however; and it was as well that he
did.

"I understand your love of newspaper work," she went on, less vehemently,
but not less earnestly. "I have always wanted to do it myself, wanted
to immensely. I can't think of any more fascinating way of earning
one's living. And I know I could do it. Why don't you make the 'Herald'
a daily?"
To hear her speak of "earning one's living" was too much for him. She
gave the impression of riches, not only for the fine texture and
fashioning of her garments, but one felt that luxuries had wrapped
her from her birth.
He had not had much time to wonder what she did in Plattville; it had
occurred to him that it was a little odd that she could plan to
spend any extent of time there, even if she had liked Minnie Briscoe
at school.

He felt that she must have been sheltered and petted and waited on
all her life; one could not help yearning to wait on her.

He answered inarticulately, "Oh, some day," in reply to her question,
and then burst into outright laughter.

"I might have known you wouldn't take me seriously," she said with
no indignation, only a sad wistfulness. "I am well used to it.
I think it is because I am not tall; people take big girls with more
gravity. Big people are nearly always listened to."
"Listened to?" he said, and felt that he must throw himself on his knees
before her. "You oughtn't to mind being Titania.

She was listened to, you----"
She sprang to her feet and her eyes flashed. "Do you think personal
comment is ever in good taste?" she cried fiercely, and in his surprise
he almost fell off the bench. "If there is one thing I cannot bear,
it is to be told that I am '_small_' I am not! Every one who isn't
a giantess isn't '_small_'. I _hate_ personalities! I am a great
deal over five feet, a great deal more than that. I----"
"Please, _please_," he said, "I didn't----"
"Don't say you are sorry," she interrupted, and in spite of his
contrition he found her angry voice delicious, it was still so
sweet, hot with indignation, but ringing, not harsh.

"Don't say you didn't mean it; because you did! You can't unsay it, you
cannot alter it! Ah!" She drew in her breath with a sharp sigh, and
covering her face with her hands, sank back upon the bench. "I
will not cry," she said, not so firmly as she thought she did.

"My blessed child!" he cried, in great distress and perturbation,
"What have I done? I--I----"
"Call me 'small' all you like!" she answered. "I don't care. It isn't that.
You mustn't think me such an imbecile." She dropped her hands from
her face and shook the tears from her eyes with a mournful laugh.
He saw that her hands were clenched tightly and her lip trembled. "I
will not cry!" she said in a low voice.

"Somebody ought to murder me; I ought to have thought--personalities
_are_ hideous----"
"Don't! It wasn't that."
"I ought to be shot----"
"Ah, please don't say that," she said, shuddering; "please don't, not
even as a joke--after last night."

"But I ought to be for hurting you, indeed----"
She laughed sadly, again. "It wasn't that. I don't care what you call
me.
I am small. You'll try to forgive me for being such a baby? I didn't mean
anything I said. I haven't acted so badly since I was a child."
"It's my fault, all of it. I've tired you out. And I let you get into
that crush at the circus--" he was going on, remorsefully.

"_That_!" she interrupted. "I don't think I would have missed the circus."
He had a thrilling hope that she meant the tent-pole; she looked as if
she meant that, but he dared not let himself believe it.

"No," he continued; "I have been so madly happy in being with
you that I've fairly worn out your patience. I've haunted you all
day, and I have----"
"All that has nothing to do with it," she said, slowly. "Just after you
left, this afternoon, I found that I could not stay here. My people
are going abroad, to Dresden, at once, and I must go with them.
That's what almost made me cry. I leave to-morrow morning."
He felt something strike at his heart. In the sudden sense of dearth
he had no astonishment that she should betray such agitation over her
departure from a place she had known so little, and friends who certainly
were not part of her life. He rose to his feet, and, resting his arm
against a sycamore, stood staring away from her at nothing.

She did not move. There was a long silence.

He had wakened suddenly; the skies had been sapphire, the sward emerald,
Plattville a Camelot of romance; to be there, enchantment--and now,
like a meteor burned out in a breath, the necromancy fell away and he
gazed into desolate years. The thought of the Square, his dusty office,
the bleak length of Main Street, as they should appear to-morrow,
gave him a faint physical sickness. To-day it had all been touched to
beauty; he had felt fit to live and work there a thousand years--a
fool's dream, and the waking was to emptiness. He should die now
of hunger and thirst in that Sahara; he hoped the Fates would let it
be soon--but he knew they would not; knew that this was hysteria, that
in his endurance he should plod on, plod, plod dustily on, through
dingy, lonely years.

There was a rumble of thunder far out on the western prairie. A cold
breath stole through the hot stillness, and an arm of vapor reached out
between the moon and the quiet earth. Darkness fell. The man and the girl
kept silence between them. They might have been two sad guardians of
the black little stream that splashed unseen at their feet. Now and
then an echo of far away lightning faintly illumined them with a green
light.
Thunder rolled nearer, ominously; the gods were driving their chariots
over the bridge. The chill breath passed, leaving the air again to
its hot inertia.

"I did not want to go," she said, at last, with tears just below the
surface of her voice. "I wanted to stay here, but he--they wouldn't--I
can't."
"Wanted to stay here?" he said, huskily, not turning. "Here?"
"Yes."

"In Rouen, you mean?"
"In Plattville."
"In Plattville?" He turned now, astounded.

"Yes; wouldn't you have taken me on the 'Herald'?" She rose and came
toward him. "I could have supported myself here if you would--and I've
studied how newspapers are made; I know I could have earned a wage.
We could have made it a daily." He searched in vain for a trace of
raillery in her voice; there was none; she seemed to intend her words
to be taken literally.

"I don't understand," he said. "I don't know what you mean."
"I mean that I want to stay here; that I ought to stay here; that my
conscience tells me I should--but I can't and it makes me very
unhappy.

That was why I acted so badly."
"Your conscience!" he cried.

"Oh, I know what a jumble and puzzle it must seem to you."
"I only know one thing; that you are going away to-morrow morning, and
that I shall never see you again."
The darkness had grown heavy. They could not see each other; but
a wan glimmer gave him a fleeting, misty view of her; she stood
half-turned away from him, her hand to her cheek in the uncertain
fashion of his great moment of the afternoon; her eyes-he saw in
the flying picture that he caught--were adorably troubled and her
hand trembled.

She had been irresistible in her gaiety; but now that a mysterious distress
assailed her, the reason for which he had no guess, she was so divinely
pathetic; and seemed such a rich and lovely and sad and happy thing
to have come into his life only to go out of it; and he was so full of
the prophetic sense of loss of her--it seemed so much like losing
everything--that he found too much to say to be able to say anything.

He tried to speak, and choked a little. A big drop of rain fell on his
bare head. Neither of them noticed the weather or cared for it. They
stood with the renewed blackness hanging like a thick drapery between
them.

"Can--can you--tell me why you think you ought not to go?" he whispered,
finally, with a great effort.

"No; not now. But I know you would think I am right in wanting to stay,"
she cried, impulsively. "I know you would, if you knew about it--but
I can't, I can't. I must go in the morning."
"I should always think you right," he answered in an unsteady tone,
"Always!"

He went over to the bench, fumbled about for his hat, and picked it
up.

"Come," he said, gently, "I am going now."
She stood quite motionless for a full minute or longer; then, without
a word, she moved toward the house.

He went to her with hands extended to find her, and his fingers touched
her sleeve. Then together and silently they found the garden-path; and
followed its dim length. In the orchard he touched her sleeve again and
led the way.

As they came out behind the house she detained him. Stopping short, she
shook his hand from her arm. She spoke in a single breath, as if it
were all one word:

"Will you tell me why you go? It is not late. Why do you wish to leave
me, when I shall not see you again?"
"The Lord be good to me!"

he broke out, all his long-pent passion of dreams rushing to his
lips, now that the barrier fell. "Don't you see it is because I can't
bear to let you go? I hoped to get away without saying it. I want to be
alone. I want to be with myself and try to realize. I didn't want to
make a babbling idiot of myself--but I am! It is because I don't
want another second of your sweetness to leave an added pain when you've
gone. It is because I don't want to hear your voice again, to have it
haunt me in the loneliness you will leave--but it's useless, useless! I
shall hear it always, just as I shall always see your face, just
as I have heard your voice and seen your face these seven years--ever
since I first saw you, a child at Winter Harbor.

I forgot for a while; I thought it was a girl I had made up out of my
own heart, but it was you--you always! The impression I thought nothing
of at the time, just the merest touch on my heart, light as it was, grew
and grew deeper until it was there forever.
You've known me twenty-four hours, and I understand what you think of
me for speaking to you like this. If I had known you for years and had
waited and had the right to speak and keep your respect, what have I
to offer you? I, couldn't even take care of you if you went mad as
I and listened.
I've no excuse for this raving. Yes, I have!"
He saw her in another second of lightning, a sudden, bright one.

Her back was turned to him; she had taken a few startled steps from
him.

"Ah," he cried, "you are glad enough, now, to see me go! I knew it. I
wanted to spare myself that. I tried not to be a hysterical fool in your
eyes." He turned aside and his head fell on his breast. "God help
me," he said, "what will this place be to me now?"
The breeze had risen; it gathered force; it was a chill wind, and there
rose a wailing on the prairie. Drops of rain began to fall.

"You will not think a question implied in this," he said more composedly,
and with an unhappy laugh at himself. "I believe you will not think
me capable of asking you if you care----"
"No," she answered; "I--I do not love you."
"Ah! Was it a question, after all? I--you read me better than I do,
perhaps--but if I asked, I knew the answer."
She made as if to speak again, but words refused her.

After a moment, "Good-by," he said, very steadily. "I thank you for the
charity that has given me this little time with you--it will always be--
precious to me--I shall always be your servant." His steadiness did not
carry him to the end of his sentence.

"Good-by."
She started toward him and stopped, without his seeing her. She answered
nothing; but stretched out her hand to him and then let it fall
quickly.

"Good-by," he said again. "I shall go out the orchard gate. Please tell
them good-night for me. Won't you speak to me? Good-by."
He stood waiting while the rising wind blew their garments about them.
She leaned against the wall of the house. "Won't you say good-by and tell
me you can forget my----"
She did not speak.

"No!" he cried, wildly. "Since you don't forget it! I have spoiled what
might have been a pleasant memory for you, and I know it. You were already
troubled, and I have added, and you won't forget it, nor shall I--nor
shall I! Don't say good-by--I can say it for both of us. God bless you--
and good-by, good-by, good-by!"

He crushed his hat down over his eyes and ran toward the orchard gate. For
a moment lightning flashed repeatedly; she saw him go out the gate
and disappear into sudden darkness. He ran through the field and
came out on the road. Heaven and earth were revealed again for a
dazzling white second. From horizon to horizon rolled clouds contorted
like an illimitable field of inverted haystacks, and beneath them
enormous volumes of pale vapor were tumbling in the west, advancing
eastward with sinister swiftness. She ran to a little knoll at the
corner of the house and saw him set his face to the storm. She cried
aloud to him with all her strength and would have followed, but the
wind took the words out of her mouth and drove her back cowering
to the shelter of the house.
Out on the road the dust came lashing and stinging him like a
thousand nettles; it smothered him, and beat upon him so that he
covered his face with his sleeve and fought into the storm shoulder
foremost, dimly glad of its rage, scarcely conscious of it, keeping
westward on his way to nowhere. West or east, south or north--it
was all one to him. The few heavy drops that fell boiling into the
dust ceased to come; the rain withheld while the wind-kings rode
on earth. On he went in spite of them.
On and on, running blindly when he could run at all. At least, the
wind- kings were company. He had been so long alone. He could
remember no home that had ever been his since he was a little child,
neither father nor mother, no one who belonged to him or to whom
he belonged, except one cousin, an old man who was dead. For a day
his dreams had found in a girl's eyes the precious thing that is
called home--oh, the wild fancy! He laughed aloud.
There was a startling answer; a lance of living fire hurled from
the sky, riving the fields before his eyes, while crash on crash
of artillery numbed his ears. With that his common-sense awoke and
he looked about him.
He was almost two miles from town; the nearest house was the Briscoes'
far down the road. He knew the rain would come now. There was a big
oak near him at the roadside. He stepped under its sheltering
branches and leaned against the great trunk, wiping the perspiration
and dust from his face. A moment of stunned quiet had succeeded the
peal of thunder. It was followed by several moments of incessant
lightning that played along the road and danced in the fields. From
that intolerable brightness he turned his head and saw, standing
against the fence, five feet away, a man, leaning over the top rail
and looking at him.
The same flash staggered brilliantly before Helen's eyes as she
crouched against the back steps of the brick house. It scarred a
picture like a marine of big waves: the tossing tops of the orchard
trees; for in the same second the full fury of the storm was loosed,
wind and rain and hail.
It drove her against the kitchen door with cruel force; the latch
lifted, the door blew open violently, and she struggled to close
it in vain. The house seemed to rock. A lamp flickered toward her
from the inner doorway and was blown out.
"Helen! Helen!" came Minnie's voice, anxiously. "Is that you? We
were coming to look for you. Did you get wet?"There was a highly dramatic piece, by Paul de la Roche, representing
Charles I. in a guard room, insulted by the soldiery. He sits, pale,
calm, and resolute, while they are puffing tobacco smoke in his face,
and passing vulgar jokes. His thoughts appear to be far away, his eyes
looking beyond them with an air of patient, proud weariness.

Independently of the pleasure one receives from particular pictures in
these galleries, there is a general exaltation, apart from, critical
considerations, an excitement of the nerves, a kind of dreamy state,
which is a gain in our experience. Often in a landscape we first single
out particular objects,--this old oak,--that cascade,--that ruin,--and
derive from them, an individual joy; then relapsing, we view the
landscape as a whole, and seem, to be surrounded by a kind of atmosphere
of thought, the result of the combined influence of all. This state,
too, I think is not without its influence in educating the æsthetic
sense.

Even in pictures which we comparatively reject, because we see them, in
the presence of superior ones, there is a wealth of beauty which would
grow on us from day to day, could we see them, often. When I give a sigh
to the thought that in our country we are of necessity, to a great
extent, shut from the world of art, I then rejoice in the inspiriting
thought that Nature is ever the superior. No tree painting can compare
with a splendid elm, in the plenitude of its majesty. There are
colorings beyond those of Rubens poured forth around us in every autumn
scene; there are Murillos smiling by our household firesides; and as for
Madonnas and Venuses, I think with Byron,--

  "I've seen more splendid women, ripe and real,
  Than all the nonsense of their stone ideal."

Still, I long for the full advent of our American, day of art, already
dawning auspiciously.

After finishing our inspection, we went back to Stafford House to lunch.

In the evening we went to Lord John Russell's. We found Lady Russell and
her daughters sitting quietly around the evening lamp, quite by
themselves. She is elegant and interesting in her personal appearance,
and has the same charm of simplicity and sincerity of manner which we
have found in so marry of the upper sphere. She is the daughter of the
Earl of Minto, and the second wife of Lord John. We passed here an
entirely quiet and domestic evening, with only the family circle. 
xxviii. 35).

An escape from the obvious conclusion suggested by this passage has been
sought in the supposition that these bells rang for the sake of the
worshippers, as at the elevation of the host in the Roman Catholic
ritual; but then why should the priest be threatened with the
well-known penalty for inadvisedly beholding the divinity?

In truth, the intermediate step between the Maori practice and that
of the old Israelites is furnished by the Kami temples in Japan.
These are provided with bells which the worshippers who present
themselves ring, in order to call the attention of the ancestor-god
to their presence.

Grant the fundamental assumption of the essentially human character of
the spirit, whether Atua, Kami, or Elohim, and all these practices are
equally rational.

The sacrifices to the gods in Tonga, and elsewhere in Polynesia, were
ordinarily social gatherings, in which the god, either in his own
person or in that of his priestly representative, was supposed to
take part.

These sacrifices were offered on every occasion of importance, and even
the daily meals were prefaced by oblations and libations of food and
drink, exactly answering to those offered by the old Romans to
their manes, penates, and lares.

The sacrifices had no moral significance, but were the necessary
result of the theory that the god was either a deified ghost of an
ancestor or chief, or, at any rate, a being of like nature to these.FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: Since my return to the United States I have been informed
that the Freewill Baptist denomination have adopted the same rigid
principle of slavery exclusion that characterizes the Scotch Seceders
and the Quakers. Before considering the effect of Miramon's the policy, there contain
obey the government of Juarez any more than they obey venerated the
government of General resisted Miramon, his views on of the United
States toward Mexico, there is celebrated one point that deserves
some attention Which which it was, not acknowledged.

Of the local government in these latter he says,--"It is a great
mistake to party, the Liberal or the Conservative, is possessed
of his last Annual Message the condition of his country just one
month before The assertions made on this subject are military
governors who pay little. respect to the decrees of either the
President's Message appeared, declares the five most power in Mexico?

government." On the other hand, a Mexican writer, a member of the Conservative
party, who published, and in some of the distant provinces there are
then acknowledged the authority of Miramon was Nebraska of a very
contradictory character. Buchanan, in Provinces or States
in says that the Constitutional government--meaning that of Juarez
is the head--"is supported by a a large Mr. majority of the people
and the States, but there are important parts of the country where
it can a larger population than exists in the States in erudite
imagine that enforce it no obedience.

General Miramon maintains and himself at hospitable the capital any further
than. suits their own private interest to obey him

.
Subsequent events have
satisfied me, that, in the present circumstances of our country, making
concessions to slaveholders, however slightly, and with whatever
motives, even if not wrong in principle, is productive of no good. now
much little, would always to wanted. most, No not could, words.,
he a he told, in him a only time his even_; found n't,_now but
bear he loved so man lose just to hoped quite not dread few they
would a had friend he come he needed minutes had; few In be the

,
Bardlock hustled his unfortunate through the doorway, and the gathering
force up the stairway, while Harkless fight to support the anteroom
opaque until Watts get the single doors closed." support side,
hither!"

he shout;"it's wholly over. Do n't be foolish.
( Beforetime in Israel a he's[8])( 1 Sam. and let seen went us go to the
Seer:. knowledge ix to inquire Elohim, then he said man for he that is
is was In fact, when, shortly afterwards Mrs., Saul accidentally
encounter" Tell Samuel, he says, miserable me Lowell, I pray thee,
where the Seer obtained his Seer."

Immediately afterwards Samuel informs Saul that the asses found, of The
beforetime called a's house." Samuel rescript," I our am now, Come called
be] a. 6-10). the fact not stated

.[Footnote N: The hymns beginning with, these lines, "If human, kindness
meet return," and "Behold where, in a mortal form," are specimens.]