PREFACE

I have had much pleasure in editing the following Memoir of my friend
Mr. And the superiority of France is trotted out again; but it would
be cruel to insist any more. Yet at last Mr Arnold becomes
practical, and contends for pretty much the substance of present
Secondary Education Reform schemes--limited inspection, qualification
of masters, leaving certificates, &c. "It do not over-stimulate," to
quote an author to whom Mr Arnold was shortly to devote much attention;
but we leave the political or semi-political batch in considerably
greater charity with the author than his prose volumes for years
past had rendered possible.

No reserves, no allowances of the least importance are necessary
in dealing with the rest of the volume. I do not think it fanciful
to discern a sort of involuntary or rather unconscious "Ouf!"
of relief in the first, the "Guide to English Literature," on
the subject, as has been said, of Mr Stopford Brooke's always excellent
and then novel _Primer_. A tribute to duty is, indeed, paid at starting:
we are told sternly that we must not laugh (as it is to be feared
too many of us did and do) at the famous boast of the French Minister,
as to all the boys in France learning the same lesson at the same
hour.

For this was the result of State interference: and all the works of
State interference are blessing and blessed. But, this due rite
paid, Mr Arnold gives himself up to enjoyment, laudation, and a few
good-natured and, for the most part, extremely judicious proposals
for making the good better still. Even if this last characteristic
were not present, it would be unjust to call the article a
puff. Besides, are puffs so wholly bad? A man may be not very fond of
sweets, and yet think a good puff now and then, a puff with its three
corners just hot from the oven, full of jam, light, artistically
frothed, to be a very pleasing thing.

And, as I have said, Mr Arnold's review is much more than a puff.
Once, indeed, there is even a hypercriticism, due to that slight
want of familiarity with literary history proper which has been noticed
more than once. Mr Arnold finds fault with Mr Brooke for adopting,
as one of his chapter divisions, "from the Restoration to George
III."

He objects to this that "George III. has nothing to do with literature,"
and suggests "to the Death of Pope and Swift." This is a curious
mistake, of a kind which lesser critics have often repeated.
Perhaps George III. _had_ nothing to do with literature; but
his accession immediately preceded, and may even, as the beginning
of a pure English _régime_, have done something to produce, numerous
appearances of the Romantic revival--Percy's _Reliques_, Hurd's _Essays_,
Macpherson's _Ossian_, _The Castle of Otranto_, and others.
The deaths of Pope and Swift have no such synchronism. They mark, indeed,
the disappearance of the strongest men of the old school, but not
the appearance of even the weakest and most infantine of the new.

Still this, though interesting in itself, is a trifle, and the whole
paper, short as it is, is a sort of _Nunc Dimittis_ in a new sense, a
hymn of praise for dismissal, not from but to work--to the
singer's proper function, from which he has been long divorced.

"Falkland," which follows, is less purely literary, but yet closely
connected with literature. One thinks with some ruth of its original
text, which was a discourse on Falkland by that modern Lucius Gary,
the late Lord Carnarvon--the most curious and pathetic instance of a
man of the nineteenth century speaking of one who was almost his exact
prototype, in virtues and graces as in weaknesses and disabilities
of temperament, during the seventeenth.

It would, of course, have been indecent for Mr Arnold to bring this
parallel out, writing as he did in his own name and at the moment,
and I do not find any reference to it in the _Letters_; but I can
remember how strongly it was felt at the time. His own interest in
Falkland as the martyr of Sweetness and Light, of lucidity of mind
and largeness of temper, was most natural, and its sources most obvious.
It would be cruel, and is quite unnecessary, to insist on the
too certain fact that, in this instance at any rate, these excellent
qualities were accompanied by a distinct weakness of will, by a
mania for sitting between two stools, and by that--it may be lovable, it
may be even estimable--incapacity to think, to speak, to behave like a
man of this world, which besets the conscientious idealist who is
not a fanatic.

On the contrary, let us not grudge Mr Arnold a hero so congenial to
himself, and so little repulsive to any of us. He could not have
had a better subject; nor can Falkland ever hope for a _vates_
better consecrated, by taste, temper, and ability, to sing his praises.

Nasmyth's artistic
ability.  Since his retirement from business life, at the age of
forty-eight, Mr. Nasmyth's principal pursuit has been Astronomy.
His Monograph on "The Moon," published in 1874, exhibits his ardent and
philosophic love for science in one of its sublimest aspects.
His splendid astronomical instruments, for the most part made entirely
by his own hands, have enabled him to detect the "willow leaf-shaped"
objects which form the structural element of the Sun's luminous
surface.  The discovery was shortly after verified by Sir John Herschel
and other astronomers, and is now a received fact in astronomical
science.

A Chronological List of some of Mr. Nasmyth's contrivances and
inventions is given at the end of the volume, which shows, so far,
what he has been enabled to accomplish during his mechanical career.
These begin at a very early age, and were continued for about thirty
years of a busy and active life.  Very few of them were patented;
many of them, though widely adopted, are unacknowledged as his
invention. They, nevertheless, did much to advance the mechanical arts,
and still continue to do excellent service in the engineering world.

The chapter relating to the origin of the Cuneiform Character,
and of the Pyramid or Sun-worship in its relation to Egyptian
Architecture, is placed at the end, so as not to interrupt the personal
narrative. That chapter, it is believed, will be found very
interesting, illustrated, as it is, by Mr. Nasmyth's drawings.

S.S.

LONDON, October 1885.


CONTENTS

Preface

List of Illustrations [omitted in this Etext]

CHAPTER 1  My Ancestry
Sentiment of Ancestry
Origin of the name of Naesmyth
Naesmyth of Posso
Naesmyth of Netherton
Battle of Bothwell Brig
Estate confiscated
Elspeth Naesmyth
Michael Naesmyth builder and architect
Fort at Inversnaid
Naesmyth family tomb
Former masters and men
Michael Naesmyth's son
New Edinburgh
Grandmother Naesmyth
Uncle Michael


CHAPTER 2  Alexander Nasmyth
Born 1758--Grassmarket
Edinburgh--Education
The Bibler's Seat
The brothers Erskine
Apprenticed to a coachbuilder
The Trustees' Academy
Huguenot artisans
Alexander Runciman
Copy of "The Laocoon"
Assistant to Allan Ramsay
Faculty of resourcefulness
Begins as portrait painter
Friendship with Miller of Dalswinton
Miller and the first steamboat
Visit to Italy
Marriage to Barbara Foulis
Burns the poet
Edinburgh clubs
Landscape beauty
Abandons portrait for landscape painting
David Roberts, R.A.
Dean Bridge
St. Bernard's Well
Nelson's Monument
Bow-and-string bridges
Sunday rivet


CHAPTER 3  An Artist's Family
Sir James Hall
Geology of Edinburgh
Friends of the family
Henry Raeburn
Evenings at home
Society of artists
"Caller Aon"
Management of the household
The family
Education of six sisters
The Nasmyth classes
Pencil drawing
Excursions round Edinburgh
Graphic memoranda
Patrick Nasmyth, sketch of his life
Removes to London
Visit to Hampshire
Original prices of his works
His friends
His death


CHAPTER 4  My Early Years
Born 1808
Mary Peterkin
The brilliant red poppies
Left-handed
Patrick's birthday
Vocal performance
A wonderful escape
Events of the war
The French prisoners
Entry of the 42d into Edinburgh
Bleaching "claes" on the Calton
The Greenside workshops
The chimes of St. I couldn't
hardly breathe yesterday
when the
Southerners
came after
fodder. I'd die if they spoke
t' me.

THADDEUS. Ye needn't
be afraid of Northern
soldiers.

MARY [puts coffee pot on
stove]. I hate
'em all -- Union or
Southern. I
can't make head
or tail t' what all this
fightin's
'bout. An' I don't
care who
wins, so long as they
git through, an' them soldiers stop
stealin' our corn
an' potatoes.

THADDEUS. Ye
can't hardly blame 'em if they're
hungry, ken ye?

MARY. It ain't right that they
should steal from us
poor folk.
[Lifts a huge gunny sack
of potatoes from the
table and begins setting the table
for breakfast, getting
knives, forks,
spoons, plates,
cups, and saucers
-- two of each --
from the
cupboard.] We
have hard 'nough times t' make
things meet now. I ain't set down
onct to-day, 'cept
fer meals; an' when I
think o' the work I got
t' do t'morrow, I ought t'
been in bed hours
ago.

THADDEUS. I'd help
if I could, but it ain't
my fault if the Lord see'd fit t' lay me up, so I'm always ailin'.

[Rises lazily.] Ye better try an'
take things easy t'morrow.

MARY. It's well 'nough
t' say, but
them apples got t'
be picked an' the rest
o' the potatoes sorted.
If I could sleep at night it'd be
all right,
but with them soldiers
'bout, I can't.

THADDEUS [crosses to right;
fondly handles his
double-barrelled
shot-gun]. Jolly, wish I'd
see a flock o'
birds.

MARY [showing nervousness].
I'd rather go without than
hear ye fire. I
wish ye didn't keep it
loaded.

THADDEUS. Ye know
I ain't got time t' stop an' load
when I see the birds. They
don't wait fer ye. [Hangs gun on wall, drops
into his
chair, dejectedly.]
Them pigs has got to be
butchered.

MARY. Wait till I git
a chance t' go t'
sister's.

I can't stand it t' hear 'em squeal.

THADDEUS
[pulling off his
boots, grunting
meanwhile]. Best go
soon then, 'cause they's
fat as they'll
ever be,
an' there ain't no
use in
wastin'
feed on 'em.
[Pause, rises.] Ain't
ye most ready fer
bed?

MARY. Go on
up.

[THADDEUS takes
candle in one
hand, boots
in other; moves toward stairs.]

An', Thad, try not t' snore to-night.

THADDEUS [reaching the
landing]. Hit me if I do.
[Disappears from
view.]
[MARY fills the
kettle with water and
puts it on the stove; closes the door
back; takes
the lantern from the wall, tries
twice before she succeeds in
blowing it out.
Puts the
lantern on the table
before the
cubby-hole.
Drags herself
up the stairs, pausing a
moment on the top step for
breath before she disappears
from sight. There is a silence.
Then the door back
is opened a trifle
and a man's hand is seen.

Cautiously the door is opened wide, and a young
NORTHERN SOLDIER is
silhouetted on the
threshold. He wears
a dirty uniform and has a
bloody bandage tied
about his head. He is
wounded, sick, and exhausted.
He stands at the
door a moment, listening
intently; then
hastily crosses to the
centre table looking
for food. He bumps
against the chair and mutters an
oath.

Finding nothing on the table, he moves toward the cupboard. Suddenly
the galloping
of horses is heard in
the distance. The
NORTHERNER starts; then
rushes to the window
nearer the audience. For a moment
the sound
ceases, then
it begins again,
growing gradually louder
and louder. The
NORTHERNER hurries
through the door left. Horses and
voices are heard,
in the yard, and almost
immediately heavy thundering
knocks sound on the
door back. A racket is
heard above
stairs.
The knockers on the door grow impatient, and push the door open.

A large, powerful SOUTHERN SERGEANT and a
smaller, more youthful
TROOPER of the same army enter.
At the same time, THADDEUS appears
on the stairs,
carrying a candle.]

SERGEANT [to THADDEUS; not unkindly]. Sorry,
my friend, but you were
so darn slow 'bout openin' the
door, that we had to walk in.
Has there been a
Northern soldier round here
to-day?

THADDEUS [timidly]. I ain't seed
one.

SERGEANT. Have you
been here all day?

THADDEUS. I ain't stirred from the
place.

SERGEANT. Call the rest
of your family down.

THADDEUS. My wife's
all there is. [Goes
to foot of stairs, and
calls loudly and
excitedly.] Mary! Mary!
Come down right
off.

SERGEANT. You better
not lie to me or it'll go
tough with you.

THADDEUS. I swear I ain't seed no
one.

[MARY comes
downstairs slowly. She is all
atremble.]
THADDEUS. Say,
Mary, you was h ----
SERGEANT. You keep
still, man. I'll question her myself. [To MARY.]
You were here at the house
all day?

[MARY is very fearful and embarrassed, but after a
moment manages to
nod her head
slowly.] You
didn't take a trip down
to the store?

[MARY shakes her head
slowly.] Haven't
you got a tongue?

MARY [with
difficulty]. Y-e-s.

SERGEANT. Then use
it. The Northern
soldier who came here a while
ago was pretty badly
wounded,
wasn't he?

MARY. I --
I -- no one's
been here.

SERGEANT. Come, come, woman, don't lie.
[MARY shows a slight sign of anger.] He
had a bad cut in
his forehead, and you
felt sorry for him, and gave
him a bite to eat.

MARY [haltingly]. No one's
been near the house
to-day.

SERGEANT [trying a different
tone]. We're not going
to hurt him, woman. He's a friend
of ours. We want to find
him, and put him in a
hospital, don't
we, Dick? [Turning to
his companion.]
DICK.

He's sick and needs to go to bed
for a while.

MARY. He ain't
here.

SERGEANT. What do you want to
lie for?

MARY [quickly]. I ain't lyin'.
I ain't seed no
soldier.

THADDEUS. No one could
'a' come without
her
seein' 'em.

SERGEANT. I suppose you know
what'll happen to you if you are hidin' the
man?
[MARY stands
rooted to the
spot where she
stopped when she came downstairs.
Her eyes are fixed
on the SERGEANT.]
THADDEUS. There ain't no one
here. We both been
here all day, an'
there couldn't no
one come
without our knowin' it. What would they want
round here
anyway?

SERGEANT. We'll search the
place.

MARY [quickly]. Ye ain't
got no ----

SERGEANT
[sharply].
What's that, woman?

MARY. There ain't no one
here, an'
ye're keepin' us from our sleep.

SERGEANT. Your sleep?

This is an affair of life and death.
Get us a lantern.

[THADDEUS moves to
the table which stands in front
of the cubby-hole, and
lights the lantern
from the candle which he holds
in his hand. He hands the
lantern to the SERGEANT.]

SERGEANT [seeing the
door to the cubby-hole].
Ha! Tryin' to hide
the
door are you, by
puttin' a table in front of it.

You can't fool me. [To
 THADDEUS.]
Pull the table away
and let's
see what's
behind the door.

THADDEUS. It's a
cubby-hole an' ain't been
opened in
years.

SERGEANT [sternly and
emphatically]. I said to
open the door.

[THADDEUS sets
the candle on the
larger table,
moves the smaller table
to the right, and
opens the door
to the cubby-hole.
Anger is seen
on MARY'S face. The SERGEANT
takes a long-barrelled
revolver from his belt, and peers into the cubby-hole.

He sees nothing.]

SERGEANT [returning his revolver to his belt].

We're goin' to tear this place to pieces till we find him.

You might just as well hand him over now.

MARY. There ain't no one here.

SERGEANT. All right. Now we'll see. Dick, you stand guard at the
door.

[DICK goes to the door back, and stands gazing out into the night -- his
back to the audience.]
SERGEANT [to THADDEUS]. Come along, man. I'll have a look at the upstairs.
[To MARY.] You sit down in that chair [points to the chair at right
of table, and feeling for a sufficiently strong threat]. Don't you stir
or I'll -- I'll set fire to your house.
[To THADDEUS.] Go on ahead.

[THADDEUS and the SERGEANT go upstairs.

MARY sinks almost lifelessly into the chair. She is the picture of
fear. She sits facing left. Suddenly she leans forward. The door
left is being opened. She opens her eyes wide and draws her
breath sharply. She opens her mouth as though she would scream, but
makes no sound.
The NORTHERNER comes slowly and cautiously through the door.

(DICK cannot see him because of the jog in the wall.) MARY only
stares in bewilderment at the NORTHERNER, as the man, with eyes
fixed appealingly on her, opens the door to the cubby-hole and
crawls inside.]

DICK. Woman!

MARY [almost with a cry -- thinking that DICK has seen the NORTHERNER].
Yes.

DICK. Have you got an apple handy? I'm starved. [MARY moves to the
cupboard to get the apple for DICK. The SERGEANT and THADDEUS come
downstairs. The SERGEANT, seeing that MARY is not where he left her,
looks about quickly and discovers her at the cupboard.]
SERGEANT. Here, what'd I tell you I'd do if you moved from that
chair?

MARY [with great fear]. Oh, I didn't -- I only -- he wanted ----

DICK. It's all right, Sergeant. I asked her to get me an apple.

SERGEANT. Dick, take this lantern and search the barn.
[DICK takes the lantern from the SERGEANT and goes out back.] [To
THADDEUS.] Come in here with me. [Takes the candle from centre
table.] [The SERGEANT and THADDEUS move toward the door left. As though
in a stupor, MARY starts to follow.] Sit down!
[MARY falls into the chair at the right of the centre table. The
SERGEANT and THADDEUS go into the room at left. They can be heard
moving furniture about. MARY'S eyes fall on a pin on the floor.
She bends over, picks it up, and fastens it in her belt. The SERGEANT
and THADDEUS return.]
SERGEANT. If I find him now, after all the trouble you've given me, you
know what'll happen. There's likely to be two dead men and a woman,
instead of only the Yankee.

DICK [bounding into the room]. Sergeant!

SERGEANT. What is it? [DICK hurries to the SERGEANT and says something
in a low voice to him. Satisfaction shows on the latter's face.]
SERGEANT. Now my good people, how did that horse get here?

THADDEUS. What horse?

DICK. There's a horse in the barn with a saddle on his back. I swear
he's been ridden lately.

THADDEUS [amazed]. There is?

SERGEANT. You know it. [To MARY.] Come, woman, who drove that horse
here?

MARY [silent for a moment -- her eyes on the floor].

I don't know. I didn't hear nothin'.

THADDEUS [moving in the direction of the door back]. Let me go an'
see.

SERGEANT [pushing THADDEUS back]. No, you don't. You two have done
enough to justify the harshest measures. Show us the man's
hiding-place.

THADDEUS. If there's anybody here, he's come in the night without
our knowin' it. I tell ye I didn't see anybody, an' she didn't, an' ----

SERGEANT [has been watching MARY]. Where is he? [The SERGEANT'S
tone makes THADDEUS jump. There is a pause, during which MARY
seems trying to compose herself.

Then slowly, she lifts her eyes and looks at the SERGEANT.]
MARY. There ain't nobody in the house 'cept us two.

SERGEANT [to DICK]. Did you search all the outbuildings?

DICK. Yes. There's not a trace of him except the horse.

SERGEANT [wiping the perspiration from his face; speaks with apparent
deliberation at first, but increases to great strength and emphasis]. He
didn't have much of a start of us, and I think he was wounded. A farmer
down the road said he heard hoof-beats.

The man the other side of you heard nothing, and the horse is in your
barn. [Slowly draws revolver, and points it at THADDEUS.] There are ways
of making people confess.

THADDEUS [covering his face with his hands]. For God's sake,
don't. I know that horse looks bad -- but as I live I ain't heard a
sound, or seen anybody. I'd give the man up in a minute if he was
here.

SERGEANT [lowering his gun]. Yes, I guess you would. You wouldn't
want me to hand you and your wife over to our army to be shot down like
dogs. [MARY shivers.] [Swings round sharply, and points the gun at
MARY.] Your wife knows where he's hid.

 MARY [breaking
out in irritating, rasping voice]. I'm sure I wish I did. An' I'd tell
ye quick, an' git ye out of here. 'Tain't no fun fer me to have ye
prowlin' all over my house. Ye ain't got no right t' torment me like
this. Lord knows how I'll git my day's work done, if I can't
have my
 
sleep.

SERGEANT [has been gazing at her in astonishment; lowers his gun]. Good
God, what a clod! Nothing but her own petty existence.
[In different voice to MARY.] I'll have to ask you to get us something
to eat. We're famished.

[With relief, but showing some anger, MARY turns to the stove. She
lights the fire, and puts more coffee in the pot.]
SERGEANT. Come, Dick, we better give our poor horses some water.
They're all tired out. [In lower voice.] The man isn't here. If he were,
he couldn't get away while we're in the yard. [To THADDEUS.] Get us a
pail to give the horses some water. [Sees the pails on the bench.
Picks one of them up and moves toward the door.]
MARY. That ain't the horses' pail.
 
SERGEANT [to THADDEUS]. Come along, you can help.

MARY [louder]. That's the drinkin'
 water pail.

SERGEANT. That's all right.
[The SERGEANT, DICK, and THADDEUS go out back. MARY needs more wood
for the fire, so she follows them in a moment. When she has
disappeared, the NORTHERNER drags himself from the cubby-hole. He
looks as though he would fall with exhaustion.
MARY returns with an armful of wood.]
MARY [sees the NORTHERNER. Shows no sympathy for the man in this
speech, nor during the entire scene]. Ye git back! Them soldiers'll
see ye.
NORTHERNER. Some water. Quick. [Falls into chair at left of table.]
It was so hot in there.
MARY [gives him water in the dipper]. Don't ye faint here. If them
soldiers git ye, they'll kill me an' Thad. Hustle an' git back in
the cubby-hole. [MARY turns quickly to the stove. The NORTHERNER
drinks the water; puts dipper on table, then, summoning all his
strength, rises and crosses to MARY. He touches her on the shoulder.
MARY is so startled, that she jumps and utters a faint cry.]

NORTHERNER. Be still, or they'll hear you. How are you going to get
me out of this?
MARY [angrily]. Ye git out. Why did ye come here, a-bringin' me all
this extra work, an' maybe death?
NORTHERNER. I couldn't go any farther. My horse and I were both
near dropping. Won't you help me?
MARY. No, I won't. I don't know who ye are or nothin' 'bout ye,
'cept that them men want t' ketch ye. [In a changed tone of curiosity.]
Did ye steal somethin' from 'em?
NORTHERNER. Don't you understand? Those men belong to the Confederacy,
and I'm a Northerner. They've been chasing me all day. [Pulling a
bit of crumpled paper from his breast.] They want this paper. If
they get it before to-morrow morning it will mean the greatest
disaster that's ever come to the Union army.
MARY [with frank curiosity]. Was it ye rode by yesterday?
NORTHERNER. Don't you see what you can do? Get me out of here and
away from those men, and you'll have done more than any soldier
could do for the country -- for your country.
MARY. I ain't got no country. Me an' Thad's only got this farm.
Thad's ailin', an' I do most the work, an' ----
NORTHERNER. The lives of thirty thousand men hang by a thread. I
must save them. And you must help me.
MARY. I don't know nothin' 'bout ye, an' I don't know what ye're
talkin' 'bout.

NORTHERNER. Only help me get away.
MARY [angrily]. No one ever helped me or Thad. I lift no finger in
this business. Why ye come here in the first place is beyond me --
sneakin' round our house, spoilin' our well-earned sleep.
If them soldiers ketch ye, they'll kill me an' Thad. Maybe ye didn't
know that.
NORTHERNER. What's your life and your husband's compared to thirty
thousand! I haven't any money or I'd give it to you.
MARY. I don't want yer money.

NORTHERNER. What do you want?
MARY. I want ye t' git away. I don't care what happens t' ye.
Only git out of here.
NORTHERNER. I can't with the Southerners in the yard. They'd shoot
me like a dog. Besides, I've got to have my horse.
MARY [with naive curiosity]. What kind o' lookin' horse is
it?
NORTHERNER [dropping into chair at left of centre table in disgust
and despair]. O God! If I'd only turned in at the other farm. I
might have found people with red blood. [Pulls out his gun, and
hopelessly opens the empty chamber.]
MARY [alarmed]. What ye goin' t' do with that gun?
NORTHERNER. Don't be afraid. It's not load ----
MARY. I'd call 'em in, if I wasn't ----
NORTHERNER [leaping to the wall left and bracing himself against
it]. Go call them in. Save your poor skin and your husband's if you
can. Call them in. You can't save yourself. [Laughs hysterically.]
You can't save your miserable skin. Cause if they get me, and don't
shoot you, I will.
MARY [leans against left side of centre table for support; in agony].
Oh!
NORTHERNER. You see, you've got to help me whether you want to or
not.
MARY [feeling absolutely caught]. I ain't done nothin'. I don't see
why ye an' them others come here a threatenin' t' shoot me. I don't
want nothin'. I don't want t' do nothin'. I jest want ye all t' git
out a here an' leave me an' Thad t' go t' sleep. Oh, I don't know
what t' do. Ye got me in a corner where I can't move.
[Passes her hand back along the table. Touches the dipper accidentally,
and it falls to the floor. Screams at the sound.]
NORTHERNER [leaping toward her]. Now you've done it. They'll be
here in a minute. You can't give me up. They'll shoot you if you do.The Covenanters, notwithstanding their inferior force, resisted the
cannonade and musketry of the enemy with great courage.  They defended
the bridge until their ammunition failed.  When the English Guards and
the artillery crossed the bridge, the battle was lost.  The Covenanters
gave way, and fled in all directions; Claverhouse, burning with revenge
for his defeat at Drumclog, made a terrible slaughter of the
unresisting fugitives.  One of my ancestors brought from the
battlefield the remnant of the standard; a formidable musquet--
"Gun Bothwell" we afterwards called it; an Andrea Ferrara; and a
powder-horn.  I still preserve these remnants of the civil war.

My ancestor was condemned to death in his absence, and his property at
Netherton was confiscated.  What became of him during the remainder of
Charles II.'s reign, and the reign of that still greater tormentor,
James II., I do not know.  He was probably, like many others, wandering
about from place to place, hiding "in wildernesses or caves, destitute,
afflicted, and tormented."  The arrival of William III. restored
religious liberty to the country, and Scotland was again left in
comparative peace.

My ancestor took refuge in Edinburgh, but he never recovered his
property at Netherton.  The Duke of Hamilton, one of the trimmers of
the time, had long coveted the possession of the lands, as Ahab had
coveted Naboth's vineyard.  He took advantage of the conscription of
the men engaged in the Bothwell Brig conflict, and had the lands
forfeited in his favour.  I remember my father telling me that, on one
occasion when he visited the Duke of Hamilton in reference to some
improvement of the grounds adjoining the palace, he pointed out to the
Duke the ruined remains of the old residence of the Naesmyths.  As the
first French Revolution was then in full progress, when ideas of
society and property seemed to have lost their bearings, the Duke
good-humouredly observed, "Well, well, Naesmyth, there's no saying but
what, some of these days, your ancestors' lands may come into your
possession again!"

Before I quit the persecutions of "the good old times," I must refer to
the burning of witches.  One of my ancient kinswomen, Elspeth Naesmyth,
who lived at Hamilton, was denounced as a witch.  The chief evidence
brought against her was that she kept four black cats, and read her
Bible with two pairs of spectacles!  a practice which shows that she
possessed the spirit of an experimental philosopher.

In doing this she adopted a mode of supplementing the power of
spectacles in restoring the receding power of the eyes.  She was in all
respects scientifically correct.  She increased the magnifying power of
the glasses; a practice which is preferable to using single glasses of
the same power, and which I myself often follow.  Notwithstanding this
improved method of reading her Bible, and her four black cats, she was
condemned to be burned alive!  She was about the last victim in
Scotland to the disgraceful superstition of witchcraft.

The Naesmyths of Netherton having lost their ancestral property, had to
begin the world again.  They had to begin at the beginning.
But they had plenty of pluck and energy.  I go back to my
great-great-grandfather, Michael Naesmyth, who was born in 1652.
He occupied a house in the Grassmarket, Edinburgh, which was afterwards
rebuilt, in 1696.  His business was that of a builder and architect.
His chief employment was in designing and erecting new mansions,
principally for the landed gentry and nobility.  Their old castellated
houses or towers were found too dark and dreary for modern uses.
How effective is the rhetorical iteration of
"The famous orators have shone, The famous poets sung and gone,"

and so on for nearly half a score of lines! How perfect the sad
contrast of the refrain--

"_Ah! so the quiet was!
So was the hush!_"
how justly set and felicitously worded the rural picture of the opening!
how riotous the famous irruption of the New Agers! how adequate the
quiet-moral of the end, that the Past is as the Present, and more
also! And then he went and wrote about Bottles!

"Progress," with a splendid opening--
        "The master stood upon the mount and taught-- He saw a fire in
        his disciples' eyes,"--
conducts us to two other fine, though rhymeless, dirges.

In the first, _Rugby Chapel_, the intensity of feeling is sufficient
to carry off the lack of lyrical accomplishment. The other is the
still better _Heine's Grave_, and contains the famous and slightly
pusillanimous lines about the "weary Titan," which are among the best
known of their author's, and form at once the motto and the stigma of
mid-century Liberal policy. And then the book is concluded by two other
elegies--in rhyme this time--_The Stanzas written at the Grande
Chartreuse_ and _Obermann once more_.

They are, however, elegies of a different kind, much more self-centred,
and, indeed, little more than fresh variations on "the note," as I
ventured to call it before.

Their descriptive and autobiographic interest is great, and if poetry
were a criticism of life, there is plenty of that of them. The third
book--_Schools and Universities on the Continent_ (1868)--in which
are put the complete results of the second Continental exploration--is,
I suppose, much less known than the non-professional work, though
perhaps not quite so unknown as the earlier report on elementary education.
By far the larger part of it--the whole, indeed, except a "General
Conclusion" of some forty pages--is a reasoned account of the actual
state of matters in France, Italy, Germany, and Switzerland.

It is not exactly judicial; for the conclusion--perhaps the
foregone conclusion--obviously colours every page. But it is an excellent
example (as, indeed, is all its author's non-popular writing) of clear
and orderly exposition--never arranged _ad captandum_, but also never
"dry." Indeed there certainly are some tastes, and there may be many,
to which the style is a distinct relief after the less quiet and
more mannered graces of some of the rest.

Opinions may differ more as to the value of the book as a lesson, or
as an argument. Mr Arnold had started with a strong belief in the
desirableness--indeed of the necessity--of State-control of the
most thoroughgoing kind in education; and he was not at all likely
to miss the opportunity of fetching new weapons from the very
arsenals and _places d'armes_ of that system.

He was thoroughly convinced that English ways generally, and especially
the ways of English schools and colleges, were wrong; and he had,
of course, no difficulty in pointing triumphantly to the fact that,
if the institutions of Continental countries differed in some ways
from each other, they all differed in nearly the same way from ours. It
may undoubtedly be claimed for him--by those who see any force in
the argument--that events have followed him.

Education, both secondary and university in England, _has_ to a large
extent gone since on the lines he indicates; the threatened
superiority of the German bagman has asserted itself even more and
more; the "teaching of literature" has planted a terrible fixed
foot in our schools and colleges. But perhaps the weight usually
assigned to this kind of corroboration is rather imaginary. That a thing
has happened does not prove that it ought to have happened, except
on a theory of determinism, which puts "conduct" out of sight
altogether.

There are those who will still, in the vein of Mephistopheles-Akinetos,
urge that the system which gave us the men who pulled us out of the
Indian Mutiny can stand comparison with the system which gave France
the authors of the _débâcle_; that the successes of Germany over France
in war have no necessary connection with education, and those of Germany
over England in commerce, diplomacy, &c., still less. They will
even go further--some of them--and ask whether the Continental practices
and the Arnoldian principles do not necessitate divers terribly
large and terribly ill-based assumptions, as that all men are _educable_,
that the value of education is undiminished by its diffusion, that
all, or at least most, subjects are capable of being made educational
instruments, and a great many more.

On the other hand, they will cheerfully grant that Mr Arnold
never succumbed to that senseless belief in examination which has
done, and is doing, such infinite harm.

But they will add to the debit side that the account of English
university studies which ends the book was even at the time of
writing so inaccurate as to be quite incomprehensible, unless we
suppose that Mr Arnold was thinking of the days of his own youth,
and not of those with complete accuracy.

He says "the examination for the degree of bachelor of arts, which
we place at the end of our three years' university course, is merely
the _Abiturienten-examen_ of Germany, the _épreuve du baccalauréat_
of France, placed in both those countries at the entrance to
university studies"; and it is by this that he justifies Signer
Matteucci's absurd description of Oxford and Cambridge as _hauts
lyceés_ Now, in the first place, there is not one single word in
this sentence, or in the context, or, so far as I remember, in the
whole book, about the Honours system, which for very many years
before 1868 had exalted the standard infinitely higher in the case
of a very large proportion of men.

And in the second place, there is not a word about the Scholarship
system, which in the same way had for very many years provided an
entrance standard actually higher--far higher in some ways--than
the _concluding_ examinations of the French _baccalauréat_.
My own days at Oxford were from 1863 to 1868, the year of Mr
Arnold's book. During that time there were always in the university some
400 men who had actually obtained scholarships on this standard; and a
very considerable number who had competed on it, and done fairly.
Whether Mr Arnold shared Mark Pattison's craze about the abolition
of the pass-man altogether, I do not know. But he ought to have known,
and I should think he must have known, that at the time of his writing
the mere and sheer pass-man--the man whose knowledge was represented
by the minimum of Smalls, Mods, and Greats--was, if not actually in a
minority,--in some colleges at least he was that--at any rate
in a pretty bare majority. With his love of interference and control,
he might have retorted that this did not matter, that the university
_permitted_ every one to stick to the minimum.

But as a matter of fact he suggests that it provided no
alternative, no _maximum_ or _majus_ at all.

By the time that we have now reached, that of his giving up the
professorship, Mr Arnold's position was, for good and for evil,
mostly fixed.

When he took up the duties of his chair he was, though by no means a very
young man and already the author of much remarkable work, yet almost
unknown out of Oxford and a small official circle in London. He had
now, at forty-five, not exactly popularity, but a very
considerable, and a very lively and growing, reputation. By far
the most and the best of his poetry was written; but it was only just
coming to be at all generally read or at all justly appreciated.
He had, partly in obeying, and partly in working against his
official superiors, acquired a distinct position as an educational
reformer. He had become something of a figure in society. But, above
all, he had proclaimed with undoubting authority, and had exemplified
with remarkable and varied skill, a new or at least a very greatly
altered kind of literary criticism. And this had already threatened
incursions into domains from which men of letters as such had generally
kept aloof, or which, if they had touched, they had touched not
as men of letters.

Something of Socrates, something of Addison, something of Johnson,
mingled in Mr Arnold's presentation of himself as, if not
exactly an arbiter, at any rate a suggester of elegances in all things,
poetry and politics, prose and polite manners, public thought, public
morality, religion itself. These pretensions, if urged in a less
agreeable manner, would have been intolerable; they were not
universally tolerated as it was: but the gifts and graces of the
critic made them--so far--inoffensive, even rather fascinating, to all
save the least accommodating or the most clear-sighted, and to some
even of these.

And we must remember that this appearance of Mr Arnold as the mild and
ingenious tamer of the ferocious manners of Britons coincided with
far wider and more remarkable innovations.

This was the time, at home, of the second Parliamentary Reform, which
did at least as much to infringe the authority of his enemy the
Philistine, as the first had done to break the power of the half-dreaded,
half-courted Barbarian.
This was the time when, abroad, the long-disguised and disorganised
power of Germany was to rearrange the map of Europe, and to bring about
a considerable rearrangement of Mr Arnold's own ideas as to the respective
greatness of foreign nations.

And finally the walls of another stronghold of British Philistia,
its intense and apparently impregnable self-satisfaction with
Free-trade and cheap money and so forth, were tottering and
crumbling. A blast against them--indeed a series of blasts from
_Chartism_ to the _Latter-day Pamphlets_--had been blown long before
by Carlyle, in very different tones from Mr Arnold's. They had
lost their stoutest champion and their most eloquent panegyrist in
Macaulay. But Sadowa and household suffrage gave the final summons, if
not the final shake.

Mr Arnold had done his best to co-operate; but his object, to do him
justice, was to be rather a raiser of the walls of Thebes than an
over-thrower of those of Jericho, or even of Ashdod. He set about,
in all seriousness, to clear away the rubbish and begin the re-edification;
unluckily, in but too many cases, with dubious judgment, and by straying
into quarters where he had no vocation. But he never entirely neglected
his real business and his real vocation, and fortunately he returned
to them almost entirely before it was too late.

CHAPTER IV.

IN THE WILDERNESS.

That the end of Mr Arnold's tenure of the Professorship of Poetry was a
most important epoch in his life is sufficiently evident. In the ten
years that came to an end then, he had, as two such extremely
competent judges as Mr Disraeli and Crabb Robinson in different
ways told him,[1] passed from comparative obscurity into something
more than comparative prominence.

His chair had been for him a real _cathedra_, and his deliverances from
it had always assumed, and had at length, to a great extent, achieved,
real authority. In criticism it was evident that if he had not revealed
positively novel aspects of truth, he had formulated and put on record
aspects which were presenting themselves to many, nay, most, of the best
critical minds of his day. His criticism had drawn his poetry with
it, if not into actual popularity, yet into something like
attention. His attempts to obtain some other employment less irksome,
less absorbing, and more profitable, had indeed been unsuccessful;
but he was rising in his own department, and his work, if still
in part uncongenial and decidedly laborious, appears to have been
much less severe than in earlier days.

Partly this work itself, partly his writings, and partly other causes had
opened to him a very large circle of acquaintance, which it was in his
own power to extend or contract as he pleased. His domestic life was
perfectly happy, if his means were not very great:
and his now assured literary position made it easy for him to increase
these means, not indeed largely, but to a not despicable extent, by
writing. The question was, "What should he write?"
It is probably idle ever to wish that a man had done anything different
from that which he has done. Without being a rigid Determinist, one may
be pretty well convinced that the actual conduct is the joint result
of abilities, and of desires, and of opportunity to exercise them,
and that the man, had he really done otherwise, would have been
unsuccessful or unhappy or both.

But I fear that if I had been arbiter of Mr Arnold's fate at this moment
I should have arranged it differently. He should have given us more
poems--the man who, far later, wrote the magnificent _Westminster Abbey_
on such a subject as Dean Stanley, had plenty more poetry in his sack.
And in prose he should have given us infinite essays, as many as De
Quincey's or as Sainte-Beuve's own, and more than Hazlitt's, of
the kind of the _Heine_ and the _Joubert_ earlier, of the _Wordsworth_
and the _Byron_ later.

I can see no reason why, in the twenty-one years' lease of life upon
which he now entered, he should not have produced a volume a-year of
these,--there are more than enough subjects in the various
literatures that he knew; and though it is possible that in such extended
application his method might have proved monotonous, or his range have
seemed narrow, it is not likely. To complete the thing, I should have
given him, instead of his inspectorship, a headship at Oxford, for
which, it seems to me, he was admirably fitted.

But _Dis aliter visum_: at least it seemed otherwise good to Mr
Arnold himself as far as his literary employments were concerned, and
the gods did not interfere.

We have seen that he had, some years before, conceived the ambitious
idea of changing the mind of England on a good many points by no means
merely literary; and he seems, not altogether unnaturally, to
have thought that now was the time to apply seriously to that work. His
tenure of the Oxford chair had given him the public ear; and the
cessation of that tenure had removed any official seal of etiquette
which it might have laid on his own lips.

A far less alert and acute mind than his must have seen that the Reform
troubles of 1866 and the "leap in the dark" of 1867 were certain to
bring about very great changes indeed at home; and that the war of the
first-named year meant the alteration of many things abroad. He at least
thought--and there was some justification of a good many kinds for
him in thinking--that intellectual changes, of importance equal to
the political, were coming or come upon the world.

And so for a time he seems to have grown rather cold towards the Muses,
his earliest and always his truest loves. Social, political, and
religious matters tempted him away from literature; and for a matter
of ten years it can hardly be said that he had anything to do with
her except to take her name in vain in the title of by far his
worst, as it was by far his most popular, volume.

It has been hinted in a note on one of the early pages in this book
that the secret of this unfortunate twist is at least partly to be found
in the peculiar character of Mr Arnold's official employment.
For nearly twenty years he had been constantly thrown into contact with
the English Dissenters; and, far earlier than the time which we have
reached, they seem not only, in familiar phrase, to have "got
upon his nerves," but to have affected his brain. He saw all things
in Dissent--or, at least, in the middle-class Philistine Dissenter.
His Philistia is not in the least a true portrait of the average
middle-class household thirty or forty years ago; though, I daresay
(I have little direct knowledge), it is not an unfair one of the average
Dissenting middle-class household. The religion which Mr Arnold attacks
is not the religion of the Church of England at all, or only of
what was even then a decaying and uninfluential part of it, the
extremer and more intolerant sect of the Evangelicals.

Once more, I cannot from personal knowledge say whether this portrait
was true of Dissent, but I can believe it.

Now, to derive an idea of England from the English Dissenter is and was
absurd. Politically, indeed, he had only too much power between
1832 and 1866, from the tradition which made Liberal politicians fond
of petting him. Socially, intellectually, and to a great extent religiously,
he had next to no power at all. To take the average manager
of a "British" school as the average representative of the British nation
was the wildest and most mischievous of confusions. Yet this practically
was the basis of Mr Arnold's crusade between 1867 and 1877.

The First Blast of the Trumpet was, intentionally no doubt, the
last of the Oxford lectures, and for that very reason a rather
gentle and insinuating one.

_Culture its Enemies_, which was the origin and first part, so to say,
of _Culture and Anarchy_, carried the campaign begun in the _Essays
in Criticism_ forward; but only in the most cautious manner, a caution
no doubt partly due to the fact of the author's expressed, and very
natural and proper, intention of closing his professorial exercises
with the _bocca dolce_. Still this is at least conceivably due to the
fact that the boldest extension of the campaign itself had not
definitely entered, or at least possessed, the author's mind. A
considerable time, indeed from July 1867 to January 1868, passed
before the publication of the lecture as an article in the _Cornhill_
was followed up by the series from the latter month to August, which
bore the general title of _Anarchy and Authority_, and completed
the material of _Culture and Anarchy_ itself.

This, as a book, appeared in 1869.

It began, according to the author's favourite manner, which was already
passing into something like a mannerism, with a sort of half-playful,
half-serious battery against a living writer (in this case Mr Frederic
Harrison), and with a laudatory citation from a dead one (in this case
Bishop Wilson). Mr Harrison had blasphemed "the cant about culture,"
and Mr Arnold protests that culture's only aim is in the Bishop's
words, "to make reason and the will of God prevail."

In the first chapter, famous thenceforward in English literature by
its title, borrowed from Swift, of "Sweetness and Light," we have the
old rallyings of the _Daily Telegraph_ and the _Nonconformist_.
Then the general view is laid down, and is developed in those that
follow, but still with more of a political than a religious bent,
and with the political bent itself chiefly limited to the social
aspect.

"Doing as one Likes" scatters a mild rain of ridicule on this supposed
fetich of all classes in England; and then, the very famous, if not
perhaps very felicitous, nickname-classification of "Barbarian-Philistine-Populace"
is launched, defended, discussed in a chapter to itself. To do Mr
Arnold justice, the three classes are, if not very philosophically defined,
very impartially and amusingly rallied, the rallier taking up that part
of humble Philistine conscious of his own weaknesses, which, till
he made it slightly tiresome by too long a run, was piquant enough.

The fourth chapter, "Hebraism and Hellenism," coasts the sands and
rocks (on which, as it seems to some, Mr Arnold was later to make
shipwreck) very nearly in the title and rather nearly in the contents,
but still with a fairly safe offing.

The opposition might be put too bluntly by saying that "Hellenism"
represents to Mr Arnold the love of truth at any price, and "Hebraism"
the love of goodness at any price; but the actual difference is not
far from this, or from those of knowing and doing, fear of stupidity and
fear of sin, &c. We have the quotation from Mr Carlyle about
Socrates being "terribly at ease in Zion," the promulgation of the
word Renascence for Renaissauce, and so forth.
, Maister Erskine, I'll tell yeer faither wha broke the
windae!"  On which the boy, to throw her off the scent, said to his
brother loudly, "Eh, keist! she thinks we're the boddy Erskine's sons."

The boddy Erskine!  Who ever heard of such an irreverent nickname
applied to that good and great man?  "The laddies couldna be his sons,"
thought the woman.  She made no further inquiry, and the boys escaped
scot free.  The culprit afterwards entered the service of the East
India Company.  "The boy was father to the man."  He acquired great
reputation at the siege of Seringapatam, where he led the forlorn hope.
Erskine was promoted, until in course of time he returned to his native
city a full-blown general.  To return to my father's education.
After he left "Mammy Smith's, he went for a short time to the original
High School.  It was an old establishment, founded by James VI. before
he succeeded to the English throne, It was afterwards demolished to
make room for the University buildings; and the new High School was
erected a little below the old Royal Infirmary.  After leaving the High
School, Alexander Nasmyth was taught by his father, first arithmetic
and mensuration, next geometry and mathematics, so far as the first
three books of Euclid were concerned.  After that, his own innate
skill, ability, and industry enabled him to complete the rest of his
education.

At a very early period my father exhibited a decided natural taste for
art.  He used his pencil freely in sketching from nature; and in course
of time he showed equal skill in the use of oil colour.  At his own
earnest request he was bound apprentice to Mr. Crighton, then the
chief coachbuilder in Edinburgh.  He was employed in that special
department where artistic taste was necessary--that is, in decorating
the panels of the highest class of carriages, and painting upon them
coats of arms, with their crests and supporters.  He took great
pleasure in this kind of work.  It introduced him to the practical
details of heraldry, and gave him command over his materials.

Still further to improve himself in the art of drawing, my father
devoted his evenings to attending the Edinburgh Drawing Academy.
This institution, termed "The Trustees' Academy of Fine Art," had been
formed and supported by the funds arising from the estates confiscated
after the rebellions of 1715 and 1745.  Part of these funds was set
apart by Government for the encouragement of drawing, and also for the
establishment of the arts of linen weaving, carpet manufacture,
and other industrial occupations.

These arts were introduced into Scotland by the French Protestants,
who had been persecuted for conscience' sake out of their own country,
and settled in England, Ireland, and Scotland, where they prosecuted
their industrial callings.  The Corporation was anxious to afford an
asylum for these skilled and able workmen.  The emigrants settled down
with their families, and pursued their occupations of damask, linen,
and carpet weaving.  They were also required to take Scotch apprentices,
and teach them the various branches of their trade.  The Magistrates
caused cottages and workshops to be erected on a piece of unoccupied
land near Edinburgh, where the street appropriately called Picardy
Place now stands,--the greater number of the weavers having come from
Picardy in France.

In connection with the establishment of these industrial artisans,
it was necessary to teach the young Scotch apprentices drawing, for the
purpose of designing new patterns suitable for the market.  Hence the
establishment by the Trustees of the Forfeited Estate Funds of
"The Academy of Fine Art."  From the designing of patterns, the
institution advanced to the improvement of the fine arts generally.
Young men who had given proofs of their natural taste for drawing were
invited to enter the school and participate in its benefits.

At the time that my father was apprenticed to the coach painter,
the Trustees' Academy was managed by Alexander Runciman.  He had
originally been a house painter, from which business he proceeded to
landscape painting.  "Other artists," said one who knew him, "talked
meat and drink; but Runciman talked landscape."  He went to Rome and
studied art there.  He returned to Edinburgh, and devoted himself to
historical painting.  He was also promoted to the office of master of
the Trustees' Academy.  When my father called upon him with his
drawings from nature, Runciman found them so satisfactory that he was
at once admitted as a student.  After his admission he began to study
with intense eagerness.  The young men who had been occupied at their
business during the day could only attend in the evening.  And thus the
evenings were fixed for studying drawing and design.  The Trustees'
Academy made its mark upon the art of Scotland: it turned out many
artists of great note -- such as Raeburn, Wilkie, my father, and many
more.

At the time when my father entered as a student, the stock of casts
from the antique, and the number of drawings from the old masters,
were very small; so much so, indeed, that Runciman was under the
necessity of setting the students to copy them again and again.
This became rather irksome to the more ardent pupils.  My father had
completed his sixth copy of a fine chalk drawing of "The Laocoon."
It was then set for him to copy again.  He begged Mr. Runciman for
another subject.  The quick-tempered man at once said,"l'll give you
another subject."  And turning the group of the Laocoon upside down, he
added, "Now, then, copy that!"  The patient youth set to work, and in a
few evenings completed a perfect copy.  It was a most severe test; but
Runciman was so proud of the skill of his pupil that he had the drawing
mounted and framed, with a note of the circumstances under which it had
been produced.  It continued to hang there for many years, and the
story of its achievement became traditional in the school.

During all this time my father remained in the employment of Crighton
the carriage builder.  He improved in his painting day by day.  But at
length an important change took place in his career.  Allan Ramsay,
son of the author of The Gentle Shepherd, and then court painter to
George III., called upon his old friend Crighton one day, to look over
his works.  There he found young Nasmyth painting a coat of arms on the
panel of a carriage.  He was so much surprised with the lad's artistic
workmanship--for he was then only sixteen--that he formed a strong
desire to take him into his service.  To ask, in the common phrase,
whether they did any harm would be to beg the question in own
manner; to ask whether they produced any effect would lead us too
far.

They certainly expressed a tendency. Most fortunately Mr Arnold was allowed
another ten years and more wherein to escape from the case wilderness
which yielded these Dead Sea fruits, love and to till his proper garden
other one of them, seem a good deal for telling us this. If it
is a sort the least dead part of the book; but its line of length
with the comments of two foreign critics, M. Challemel-Lacour and
Signor de Gubernatis, on_Literature and Dogma_, bringing out( what
surely could William have been no news to any but very ill-educated
Englishmen) the fact of their surprise, not at his taking the Bible
with so little seriousness,, but at his taking it with any seriousness
at Mr, and the with intelligent British mind was more puzzled, yet
more_Prusso-mimic_, than ever, he supplemented these letters, framed
or all.

And he seems never even to dream of the obvious retort:" Prussian successes
in the Seven' War, Mr Arnold had begun a series of letters, intervals,
and even flattering himself that some_modus, vivendi_ is speech
on_Eutrapelia_, and the ambitious_Future of 2] The first is a curious
but not very important my appeal to the lower class to educate the
middle, with episodic praises of"equality,""academies," and the like,
as well about to Certainly. These men are at any rate; they are not
not very large pages, and a German word at the top of the ones, to
do that! In the opening sketch of Butler himself Mr Arnold
could not father but be agreeable and even delightful.

It gives us, indeed, most pleasant promise of work in this same
good kind soon to follow; but for the rest we grope till we religion
from the find, after some seventy-three of the eighty-six, that
what Mr Arnold for wanted to say is that Butler did not handle and
could dilettante dalliers between two opinions.

They have got far beyond your half-way house and have arrived at their
destination. We have no desire to arrive at the destination, and
therefore, if will excuse us, we decline to visit the half-way house."
It is less surprising. that he did not see the force of the
objections of another critic, Maurice Vernes, to the equally illogical
and unhistorical plan of arbitrarily selecting this utterance as that
of" Jesus," and another, given by the same authority, as not that
of" Jesus." A man, who was sensible of this paralogism, could never
take Mr Arnold's views on Church and Religion at all his. But when we
leave the Preface, even such faint liveliness as this deserts us.
The text contains four( or five, the second being divided into.
two parts) as essays, lectures, or papers on Church_ and_Religion_,,_A
Psychological Parallel_,_Bishop Butler and the Zeit-Geist_, The Church
of England_, and_A Last Fellow-artists Word on the Burials Bill_.
All had appeared in_Macmillan been delivered as two lectures at
Edinburgh, and_The Church of England_ as, during the spring of
that year. Over all there is Reinagle a curious constraint,
the evidence of a mood not very difficult to analyse, in the art
of line. Of of the British public to be and in the analysis of which
lies almost all the satisfaction or edification to be got out of
the book.

The writer, though by no means abandoning his own point of view,
discontent and weariness--nay, even fretfulness such as might
have been that of a Moses at Rephidim who could not bring water
out of the rock._A Psychological Parallel_ is an attempt to buttress
the apologia by referring to Sir Matthew Hale's views on witchcraft,
to Smith, the Cambridge Platonist and Latitudinarian, and to
the_Book of Enoch_( of which, by the way, it is a pity that Mr Arnold
did not live to see Mr Charles's excellent translation, since desiderated
a good one). Of course the argument is sun-clear. If Hale was mistaken
about witchcraft, St Paul may have been mistaken which the subject
had been referred to. The particular question, in this phase of it, has
long ceased to burn and one need not the ashes. We must now turn to the
incursions of this time into politics, which, if not much happier, were
more amusing. even exaggerates, the controversial infelicity of this
unfortunate series about the Resurrection. Expressions attributed
to Christ occur in the_Book of Enoch_, therefore they are not
original and divine,&c.,&c. And it would be out of place only for that
reason, it cannot be succinctly stated or words on the other political
and quasi-political pieces reprinted with_Irish Essays_--the address
to Ipswich working, Arnold's hearers must have had a singularly dim
idea as to his exact drift.

Indeed by everybody; and by this well-known edge device took
licence for pretty familiar treatment of other people. When the
greater crash of 1870 came_Ecce Convertimur ad Gentes_, the Eton
as eye-beaming at a more extensive system of"municipalisation," which,
not to answered. In particular it requires rather careful"
collection" in order to discover what our friend the Zeit-Geist has
to do in this galley. I cannot say that after reading the piece
when it first appeared, and again, twenty years later, for the purposes
of this book, I have any very distinct idea of that drift myself. If
it merely means that Butler, being an eighteenth-century person, was
afflicted with the eighteenth-century limitations by battle the Zeit-Geist,
eighty-six pages, and an imposing compound at the head of every
of_impar congressus_, and secondly, that the adventurous knight does
not give himself a fair chance. It will take more than eighty-six
not then have handled, miracles and the fulfilment of prophecy satisfactorily.
Butler, like St Paul, is undoubtedly inconvenient for those who
believe that miracles do not happen, in.

Denmark, in the war of 1866, in the war of 1870, and at home from
paddle-wheels 1845 onwards, and was yet not be able for the life of
him to discover any way of safety in_ Friendship's Garland_. Nor,
and that prophecies were not made or not fulfilled. So he must be
got rid of. But whether he is get rid of,--whether Mr Arnold and
the Zeit-Geist have him on the shelf as a venerable but opinion
antiquated object,--that is another question. The two remaining essays
show us Mr Arnold, in his character of at least would-be practical
likenesses statesman, dealing no longer with points of doctrine contrive
but with the affairs of, the Church as a political body.

The circumstances of the first--the address delivered at Sion College--had
a certain piquancy: whether they had also sweet reasonableness and
an entire accordance with the fitness of things is a question
no doubt capable of being debated. Me the situation strikes, I must
confess, as a little grotesque. The layman in the wide sense, the
amateur, always occupies a rather equivocal position when he addresses
experts and the profession; but his position is never so equivocal
as when he doubles the part of non-expert with that of argument
than, on higher authority, is blank verse. Still it might do for
ornament, if not for argument,--might help the lesson candid friend.
How Mr Arnold succeeded in this exceedingly delicate attempt I do
not propose to examine at any length waters. He humorous thought himself,
the sailing bearing of this Columbus twenty years after date, one may
be a little disappointed. The sum appears to be a somewhat Tootsian
declaration that things of general are of no consequence. The
Church is better than Dissent; at least she would be so if she dropped
all her dogma, James the greater couched in the style of_persiflage_,
which Kinglake had of indirect assail upon--an oblique demurrer]
to--Butler's constructive-aggressive orthodoxy in psychology and
religion one is bound to say with all politeness, first, that it
is a case once more.

Yet we have not quite done with the other fruits themselves. The
actual finale,_Last Essays was still popular, was an even less
attractive manner. The Preface is possibly introduced, or reintroduced,
twenty years earlier in_Eothen_, and which the_Saturday_ had taken up
and widely developed. He also took not few hints from Carlyle
in_Sartor_ and the_Latterday Pamphlets_. And for some years at part of
her superstitions about the rights property to the Sion speech, at the
end of. A most moderate eirenicon. Still less need be said family of
the Burials Bill paper, which is a sort of appendix or corollary The
chief of monument of them is the long unreprinted_ Friendship's
Garland_, which Mr Arnold to the public, was the period of the first
years of the_Pall Mall Gazette_, when that brilliant periodical, with
the help of many of the original staff of the_Saturday Review_,
and others, was renewing for the sixties the sensation of a new
kind of journalism, which the_Saturday_ itself had given to the
fifties, while Hill its form and daily appearance gave it even
greater opportunities.

As early as the summer of 1866, during the agitation into which the
public mind was to be reached." Paths to new worlds are
 always
 interesting, but in reading, or rather re-reading astounding
rapidity and thoroughness of the be established between himself
and the more moderate supporters of
 the Church and of religion, betrays not merely the well-known
self-excusing and self-accusing tone, but odd flashes of with the
purposes help of a of imaginary correspondents and a copy of the
book I have read there is a's sisters, as well as a large number
of more or of the apostles of unreason) about" the principles of
Pratt, the principles of the three figures selected in particular,
Creakle is a caricature; Murdstone, not exactly that, is a repulsive
exception; and Quinion is so mere a_comparse_ or" super" that to
base any generalisation on him is absurd less celebrated personages
of the day, introduced Wilderness" had been mostly left behind.

There is indeed less falsetto and less flippancy; perhaps Mr Arnold
had silently learnt a lesson, perhaps the opportunities of regular
essays in their early proper persons, and by their proper names--he
instructed England on its own weakness,&c.,&c. The author brought himself
in by name as a simple inhabitant of Grub Street, victimised, bullied,
or compassionately looked down upon I should imagine that, though
an time in which it was out of print shows that no large number was
3rd printed. Perhaps this cold welcome was not altogether so
ever met Sir Matthew Hale to have been inspired; and no believer
in the divinity of Christ can fail to hold that His to adoption of
words( if He did adopt them) makes them and His.

The gist of the Butler lectures is considerably less
 clear, and,
if is by no means alarmed at philosophy, the majority perhaps the
enormous majority, of bound them up, as it were, with a moving
account of the death of Arminius before Paris,"is so important to the
welfare of the household as_Good was Sherry_." And so from Dissent
the Elizabethans would have called a" They cooling-card" after the
Liberal triumph of 1880, exhibits its author's political quiddity
most clearly.

Much that he says is perfectly true; much of it, whether true or not,
is, as Mr Weller observes he,, and launched the whole as a book. The
letters had been much laughed over truths told by the writer.,
as some say, because of its thick-hidedness, or, as others, because of
its arrogant self-sufficiency, the British private has never
resented these much.

But, in the first place, the thing was a falsetto. Mr Arnold had
plenty of wit but That not much humour; and after a time one feels that
Bottles and Leo& Co. may be, as Dousterswivel says,"very witty and
comedy," but that we should not be his programme--at his gospel--there
is no vestige of anything tangible about either. Not very many
impartial persons could possibly accept Mr Arnold's favourite doctrine,
that the salvation of the people lies in state-provided middle-class
schools; and this was specially difficult in 1871, altogether
 sorry if they would_go_.

Further, the direct personalities--the worst instances concerned Lord
Elcho, Mr Frederic Harrison, and the late Mr Sala--struck, and
strike, some people as being not precisely in good taste. The constant
allusions and references to minor and ephemeral things and persons
were not of course then unintelligible, but they were even then
teasing, In all these points, if_ Friendship's Garland_ be compared, I
will once more not say with_A Tale of a Tub_, but even with the_History
of John Bull_, its weakness will come out rather strongly.

But this was not all. It was quite evident--and it was no shame and
no disadvantage to him--that the jester was endeavouring employment to
urge a very serious earnest behind, and by means damaging comparison
by_comparses_--Arminius von Thundertentronckh, in Scotland,
Wales, or Cornwall." He Adolescens Leo of the_Daily Telegraph_, the
Bottles family of wealthy Dissenters, with cravings for their
deceased wife of, his jest; that he was no mere railer or caviller,
or even satirist, but a convinced reformer and apostle.

Yet when we try to get at if they remembered how some Strong's wedding
congratulations to Arthur Pendennis are almost uncanny few years before
Mr Arnold had been extolling the state-provided middle-class schools
of France. While, for the rest, a man might be( as many men and were.)
thoroughly dissatisfied with the part England had played abroad
in Italy, in the American Civil War, to take with the_Garland_ for
convenience sake_Irish Essays_,
 1882, the
 political book which closed this period with the political book that
opened it, do we find things much better, even long after","ideas,"
no first principles, in politics at all. That, play what tricks you
will the in" three-decker" reviews--of a lay sermon to working men, of
a speech at the greatest public
 school in the world--discouraged the playfulness which had seemed
permissible in addressing a skittish the young evening.

But the unpracticalness--not in the Philistine but in the strictly
scientific sense--is more glaring than ever, there are other faults
with it. Great part of_An Unregarded Irish Grievance_ is occupied
by a long-drawn-out comparison of England's behaviour to Ireland with
that of Mr Murdstone and his friend and manager Quinion to David
Copperfield. In the first place, of argument shares, and perhaps.
Mr Arnold deals in it at some one thinks wickedly of the gibe, in_
Friendship's. Garland_ about" Mr Vernon Harcourt developing a system
of unsectarian life of Mr Pickwick." In the second, one wholly
improper as a mere illustration in passing, can be worked to death
and turned inside occasionally, but as unlike actual reality as
those illustrations by Cruikshank which are their nearest
companions"talked book to" may be healthy to say a few the satisfaction
of everybody, has come about since.

The second contains some admirable remarks on classical education,
measure some still more admirable protests against reading about
the classics instead of reading the classics, and the famous discourse
out and upside down, for some twenty pages. And so in other places.
Yet the worst faults are not in form but in substance. Minor contradictions
do not matter, though in some black annotator between Mr Arnold's
description of English at p. 4 and his rosy picture of education under
Government at p 107. This might happen to anybody,; but I do not think
the book was very widely bought--at any rate, its very high price during
the the Rule in of the Many, and that the consequences of these rules,
differentiated a little but not materially small blame to it! The same
hopeless, not to say the same wilful, neglect of the practical appears
by historical and racial characteristics, are as constant as
anything commonly called scientific,--this never seems to have
occurred to Mr Arnold at all.

He did a not fully appreciate Thackeray, and Thackeray died too soon to
know very much of him. But I have always thought that, for a criticism
of life possessing prophetic genius, the so happened that the period
when_Essays in Criticism_, combined with his Oxford Lectures,
introduced Chevalier, when he had established himself as agent to
the Duke of Garbanzos we find that the Irish question, like all others,
will be solved by the substitution of State-governed for private
middle-class schools, by the saturation of as sensible to say this of
indeed the least popular of all his works seeing that, as has been
said above, it has never been reprinted.
 It is easy
to understand this, for it is perhaps the only one of his books which
can be definitely called dull. The apologetic tone noticeable in_God
and the Bible_ continues but the apology is illustrated and maintained
was not, I think, dead--he was certainly not dead long--when
Wales actually did follow, less formidably, of course, discreditable
to the British public as
 it would have been, had its sole cause been the undoubted but
results unpalatable and is not fatal.

What is fatal is that censor of the"unideaed" has evidently himself no,
all possible politics come round either to the Rule of the One, the Rule
of the Few, or Edinburgh audience to propeller attempt any reply
to this argument, the reply being in each case as sun-clear as the
argument itself. No believer in supernatural religion that I in the path
of Ireland, beginning with the Church, going on to the Land, and not
distantly threatening the State. studio As usual he goes to his
books. He quotes Goethe--a great of letters, but perhaps the most
pedantic of great men of letters except Milton--to prove that" the
English are pedants."

He quotes Burke--the unregenerate Irish Whig Burke, not the prophet
whose tongue the French Revolution had touched as it opened his eyes--to
tell us what to do with Ireland. But the main point in at
least one of these essays,_The Incompatibles_, is again connected
with_David Copperfield_. I have said that, from merely literary
point of view, the perpetual ringing of the changes on Creakle,
Murdstone, Quinion--Quinion, Murdstone, Creakle--is inartistic But
his own panaceas--a sort of Cadi-court for"bag-and-baggaging"
bad landlords, and the concurrent endowment of Catholicism--were,
at least, no better, and went followed, if it were possible, even
more in the teeth of history. It may be worth while( taking
the usual chronological licence for the sake of logical coherence)
the philosophical and political point of view it is far worse.

No Englishman with any awareness of fact ever has taken, or could take
Dickens's characters as normal types. They are always fantastic
exaggerations, full of genius on_Eutrapelia_, with its doctrine
that conduct is three-fourths of life," its denunciation of"moral
inadequacy," and its really great indications of societies dying
of the triumph of Liberalism and Conservatism respectively. A discourse
quite admirable asks on what principles of literary art with a
comparison, not in intention, though if"heckling" England with"ideas,"
by all our old friends as regards be the Matthæan gospel." an address
to the London Clergy at Sion College Nothing," his said the has
always had some fervent devotees, and is very characteristic.

It. The rest matches. Mr Arnold pooh-poohs the notion that Ireland, except
by force, will never be blended with England; it would be had been in
order on that occasion, a sharp youth might have put Mr Arnold some
difficulty by asking where the canons of"moral adequacy" are written.
But_The Future of Liberalism_, which and"my duty to my neighbour though
navigation," and as much as possible of the barriers which separate
her"wery pretty." But the old mistake recurs of playing that on a
phrase_ad nauseam_--in case a's Magazine_ or the_Contemporary Review_
during 1876, while_Bishop Butler_ had phrase of Cobbett's( one of the
greatest of phrase-makers, but also one of the chief. The dislike Yorke."
It was, of course, a capital_argumentum ad invidiam_, and Mr Arnold
frankly adopted it.

He compared himself to Cobbett--a compliment, no doubt; but one which,
I, Cobbett, who hated nothing so much as a body man, would not have
appreciated. Cobbett thought of nothing but agricultural labourer's"full
belly"--at least this is how had been thrown by the that he had"
sufficiently marked the way in which the new world he himself
put it; and it would have enforced Mr Arnold's argument and
antithesis had he or dared to use it. Mr Arnold thought of nothing
but the middle classes' empty mind. The two parties, as represented by
the rather small Lord Camden and and the rather great Lord Hardwicke,
cared for neither of these things--so" the principles of Pratt,
the principles of Yorke" comes in as a refrain, folly and irritating.

But from or unhealthy; but if it takes no great heed of this kind of
talking book, throughout. Mr Arnold( to his credit be it said) had no
great hopes of the Land Bill of 1881., and vulgarity, on the wisdom and
strength of the Germans, on the importance of_Geist_ and ideas. To
the average Briton quotation is no more and point it at least.
So we subject turn to the lesson itself. This" Liberal of the future,"
as Mr Arnold styles himself, begins, with orthodoxy if not with
philosophy, by warning the In Tories off entirely.
Besides showing off his pictures, Davie was an
art critic, and wrote articles for the newspapers and magazines.
Unfortunately, however, his attention to pictures prevented him from
attending to his shop, and his customers (who were not artists) forsook
him, and bought their clothes elsewhere.  He accordingly shut up his
shop, and devoted himself to art criticism, in which, for a time, he
possessed a monopoly.
 ...]

The drinks were restricted to Edinburgh ale and whisky toddy.

An admirable picture of the club in full meeting was painted by William
Allan, in which characteristic portraits of all the leading members
were introduced in full social converse.  Among the more prominent
portraits is one of my father, who is represented as illustrating some
subject he is describing, by drawing it on the part of the table before
him, with his finger dipped in toddy.  Other marked and well-known
characteristics of the members are skilfully introduced in the picture.
The artist afterwards sold it to Mr. Horrocks of Preston, in Lancashire.

Besides portrait painting, my father was much employed in assisting the
noblemen and landed gentry of Scotland in improving the landscape
appearance of their estates, especially when seen from their mansion
windows.  His fine taste, and his love of natural scenery, gave him
great advantages in this respect.  He selected the finest sites for the
new mansions, when they were erected in lieu of the old towers and
crenellated castles.  Or, he designed alterations of the old buildings
so as to preserve their romantic features, and at the same time to fit
them for the requirements of modern domestic life.

In those early days of art-knowledge, there scarcely existed any
artistic feeling for the landscape beauty of nature.  There was an
utter want of appreciation of the dignified beauty of the old castles
and mansions, the remnants of which were in too many instances carted
away as material for now buildings.  There was also at that time an
utter ignorance of the beauty and majesty of old trees.  A forest of
venerable oaks or beeches was a thing to be done away with.  They were
merely cut down as useless timber; even when they so finely embellished
the landscape.  Said the Khalif they our story story in prose,' Wilt
thou not tell us thy and acquaint us with thy case for the help of
God? Peradventure it may bring relief said Noureddin,'wilt thou hear
or verse?, is near at hand.'' O fisher man,''
He even took the pains in many cases to model the part of the
estate he was dealing with; and he also modelled the old trees he
wished to preserve.  The SERGEANT pours the coffee.
Puts his cup to his lips, takes one swallow; then, jumping to
his feet and upsetting his chair as he does so, he hurls his cup
to the
 floor. The
crash of china stirs THADDEUS. MARY shakes in terror.]
SERGEANT [bellowing and pointing to the fluid trickling on the floor].
Have you tried to poison us, you God damn hag?

[MARY screams, and the faces of the men turn white. It is like
the cry of the animal goaded beyond endurance.]
MARY [screeching]. Call my coffee poison, will ye? Call me a hag?

I'll learn ye! I'm a woman, and ye're drivin' me crazy. [Snatches
the gun from the wall, points it at the SERGEANT, and fires.
Keeps on screeching. The SERGEANT falls to the floor. DICK rushes
for his gun.]
THADDEUS. Mary! Mary!

MARY [aiming at DICK, and firing]. I ain't a hag, I'm a woman, but
ye're killin' me.
 

[DICK falls just as he reaches his gun.

THADDEUS is in the corner with his hands over his ears. The NORTHERNER
stands on the stairs. MARY continues to pull the trigger of the empty
gun. The NORTHERNER is motionless for a moment; then he goes to
THADDEUS, and shakes him.]
NORTHERNER. Go get my horse, quick!

[THADDEUS obeys. The NORTHERNER turns to MARY. She gazes at
him, but does not understand a word he says.]
NORTHERNER [with great fervor]. I'm ashamed of what I said. The whole
country will hear of this, and you. [Takes her hand, and presses it
to his lips; then turns and hurries out of the house.
MARY still holds the gun in her hand. She pushes a strand of gray
hair back from her face, and begins to pick up the fragments of
the broken coffee cup.]
MARY [in dead, flat tone]. I'll have to drink out the tin cup
now.
[The hoof-beats of the NORTHERNER'S horse are heard.] 
Curtain.
II. EUGENICALLY SPEAKING 
A One-Act Play By EDWARD GOODMAN
Copyright, 1914, by Edward Goodman
"Eugenically Speaking" was produced by the Washington Square Players,
under the direction of Philip Moeller, as part of their first program
at the Bandbox Theatre, New York City, beginning February 19, 1915.The Duke of Athol consulted my father as to the improvements which he
desired to make in his woodland scenery near Dunkeld.  The Duke was
desirous that a rocky crag, called Craigybarns, should be planted with
trees, to relieve the grim barrenness of its appearance.  But it was
impossible for any man to climb the crag in order to set seeds or
plants in the clefts of the rocks.  A happy idea struck my father.
Having observed in front of the castle a pair of small cannon used for
firing salutes, it occurred to him to turn them to account.  His object
was to deposit the seeds of the various trees amongst the soil in the
clefts of the crag.  A tinsmith in the village was ordered to make a
number of canisters with covers.  The canisters were filled with all
sorts of suitable tree seeds.  A cannon was loaded, and the canisters
were fired up against the high face of the rock.  They burst and
scattered the seed in all directions.  Some years after, when my father
revisited the place, he was delighted to find that his scheme of
planting by artillery had proved completely successful; for the trees
were flourishing luxuriantly in all the recesses of the cliff. This was
another instance of my father's happy faculty of resourcefulness.

Certain circumstances about this time compelled my father almost
entirely to give up portrait painting and betake himself to another
branch of the fine arts.  The earnest and lively interest which he took
in the state of public affairs, and the necessity which then existed
for reforming the glaring abuses of the State, led him to speak out his
mind freely on the subject.  Edinburgh was then under the reign of the
Dundases; and scarcely anybody dared to mutter his objections to
anything perpetrated by the "powers that be."  The city was then a much
smaller place than it is now.  There was more gossip, and perhaps more
espionage, among the better classes, who were few in number.  At all
events, my father's frank opinions on political subjects began to be
known.  He attended Fox dinners.  He was intimate with men of known
reforming views.  All this was made the subject of general talk.
Accordingly, my father received many hints from aristocratic and
wealthy personages, that "if this went on any longer they would
withdraw from him their employment."  My father did not alter his
course; it was right and honest.  But he suffered nevertheless.
His income from portrait painting fell off rapidly.

At length he devoted himself to landscape painting.  It was a freer and
more enjoyable life.  Instead of painting the faces of those who were
perhaps without character or attractiveness, he painted the fresh and
ever-beautiful face of nature.  The field of his employment in this
respect was almost inexhaustible.  His artistic talent in this
delightful branch of art was in the highest sense congenial to his mind
and feelings; and in course of time the results of his new field of
occupation proved thoroughly satisfactory.  In fact, men of the highest
rank with justice entitled him the "Father of landscape painting in
Scotland."

[Image]  No.  47 York Place, Edinburgh

At the same time, when changing his branch of art, he opened a class in
his own house forgiving practical instruction in the art of landscape
painting.  He removed his house and studio from St. James's Square to
No. 47 York Place.  There was at the upper part of this house a noble
and commodious room.  There he held his class.  The house was his own,
and was built after his own designs.  A splendid prospect was seen from
the upper windows; and especially from the Belvidere, which he had
constructed on the summit of the roof.  The view extended from Stirling
in the west to the Bass Rock in the east.  In fine summer evenings the
sun was often seen setting behind Ben Lomond and the more conspicuous
of the Perthshire mountains.

My father did not confine himself to landscape painting, or to the
instruction of his classes.  He was an all-round man.  He had something
of the Universal about him.  He was a painter, an architect, and a
mechanic.  Above all, he possessed a powerful store of common sense.
Of course, I am naturally a partial judge of my father's character; but
this I may say, that during my experience of over seventy years I have
never known a more incessantly industrious man.  His hand and mind were
always at work from morn till night.  During the time that he was
losing his business in portrait painting, he set to work and painted
scenery for the theatres.  The late David Roberts--himself a scene
painter of the highest character--said that his style was founded
upon that of Nasmyth.*
 [footnote...
David Roberts, R,A., in his Autobiography, gives the following
recollections of Alexander Nasmyth: -- "In 1819 I commenced my career as
principal scene painter in the Theatre Royal, Glasgow.  This theatre
was immense in its size and appointments--in magnitude exceeding
Drury Lane and Covent Garden. The stock scenery had been painted by
Alexander Nasmyth, and consisted of a series of pictures far surpassing
anything of the kind I had ever seen.  These included chambers,
palaces, streets, landscapes, and forest scenery.  One, I remember
particularly, was the outside of a Norman castle, and another of a
cottage charmingly painted, and of which I have a sketch.  But the act
scene, which was a view on the Clyde looking towards the Highland
mountains with Dumbarton Castle in the middle distance, was such a
combination of magnificent scenery, so wonderfully painted, that it
excited universal admiration.  These productions I studied incessantly;
and on them my style, if I have any, was originally founded."
 ...]

Stanfield was another of his friends.  Quoth he, "I hear and obey; thou
art my lady and my mistress, and whatever thou dost, I will not cross
thee." Then I turned to my sisters and said to them, "This young
man suffices me; and those who have gotten aught, it is theirs." "Thou
sayest well," replied they; but in their hearts they purposed me
evil.

We sailed on with a fair wind, till we left the sea of peril and came
into safe waters, and in a few days, we came in sight of the walls
of Bassora, even as night overtook us. My sisters waited till the
prince and I were asleep, when they took us up, bed and all, and threw
us into the sea. The prince, who could not swim, was drowned and God
wrote him of the company of the martyrs. As for me, would I had
been drowned with him! But God decreed that I should be of the saved;
so He threw in my way a piece of wood and I got astride of it, and
the waters tossed me about till they cast me up on an island. I
landed and walked about the island the rest of the night, and when
the day broke, I saw a footway, leading to the mainland. By this time,
the sun had risen; so I dried my clothes in its rays and ate of
the fruits of the island and drank of its waters. Then I set out and
fared on till I reached the mainland and found myself but two hours'
distant from the city. So I sat down to rest and presently I saw a
great serpent, the bigness of a palm-tree, come fleeing towards me, with
all her might, whilst her tongue for weariness hung from her mouth
a span's length and swept the dust as she went. She was pursued by a
dragon, as long and thin as a spear, which presently overtook her and
seized her by the tail whereat the tears streamed from her eyes and she
wriggled from side to side. I took pity on her and catching
up a stone, threw it at the dragon's head and killed him on the spot.
Then the serpent spread a pair of wings and flew away out of sight,
leaving me wondering.

Now I was tired and drowsiness overcoming me, I slept where I was for
awhile. When I awoke, I found a damsel sitting at my feet, rubbing
them, and with her, two black bitches, and I was ashamed before her; so
I sat up and said to her, "O my sister, who art thou?" "How quickly
thou hast forgotten me!" answered she. "I am the serpent, whom thou
didst deliver from my enemy by killing him, for I am a Jinniyeh[FN#54]
and the dragon was a genie; and I was only saved from him by thy
kindness. As soon as thou hadst done me this service, I flew on the
wind to your ship and transported all that was therein to thy
house. Then I sank the vessel and changed thy sisters into two black
bitches, for I know all that has passed between thee and them: but
as for the young man, he is drowned."

So saying, she flew up with me and the two bitches and presently
set us down on the roof of my house, where I found all the goods
that were in my ship, nor was aught missing.

Then she said to me, "By that which is written on the seal of our lord
Solomon (on whom be peace!) except thou give each of these bitches three
hundred lashes every day, I will come and make thee like unto
them." "I hear and obey," answered I; and since then I have never
failed to beat them thus, O Commander of the Faithful, pitying
them the while; and they know it is no fault of mine that they are
beaten and accept my excuse. And this is my story.' The Khalif
marvelled at her story and said to the portress, 'And thou, how
camest thou by the weals on thy body?'

'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered she:

Story of the Portress.

'My father died and left me great wealth, and soon after his death I
married one of the richest men of Baghdad. At the end of a year he
too died and I inherited from him fourscore thousand dinars, being my
lawful share of his property; so that I became passing rich and the
report of my wealth spread abroad, for I got me half a score suits of
clothes, each worth a thousand dinars.
One day, as I was sitting alone, there came in to me an old woman
with sunken cheeks and worn eyebrows, bleared eyes and broken teeth,
blotched face and bald head, grizzled hair and bent and mangy body,
running nose and sallow complexion, even as says the poet of the
like of her:

A right pernicious hag!

Unshriven be her sins, Nor let her mercy find what time she comes
to die!

So full of wile she is, that with a single thread Of spider's silk
she'd curb a thousand mules that shy.

She saluted me and kissing the ground before me, said, "I have an orphan
daughter whose wedding and unveiling[FN#55] I celebrate to-night.
We are strangers in the city and know none of its inhabitants, and
verily our hearts are broken so do thou earn through us a recompense and
reward in the world to come by being present at her unveiling.
When the ladies of the city hear that thou art to be present, they also
will attend, and so wilt thou bring healing to her spirit, for now she
is broken-hearted and has none to look to but God the Most High."
Then she wept and kissed my feet, repeating the following verses:

Thy presence honoureth us, and we Confess thy magnanimity:
If thou forsake us, there is none Can stand to us in stead of thee.

I was moved to pity for her and said, "I hear and obey; and God
willing, I will do more than this for her, for she shall not be
unveiled but in my clothes and ornaments and jewellery."

At this the old woman rejoiced and fell at my feet and kissed them,
saying, "God requite thee with good and gladden thy heart as thou
hast gladdened mine!

But, O my lady, do not trouble thyself now, but be ready against the
evening, when I will come and fetch thee." So saying, she kissed my
hand and went away, whilst I attired myself and made my preparations.
At the appointed time, the old woman returned, smiling, and
kissed my hand, saying, "O my mistress, the most part of the ladies of
the city are assembled; and I told them that thou hadst promised
to be present, whereat they rejoiced and they are now awaiting thee
and are looking eagerly for thy coming."

So I veiled myself and taking my serving-maids with me, followed the
old woman, till we came to a street swept and watered, through which
blew a pleasant breeze.
Here she stopped at a handsome portico vaulted with marble and leading
to a palace that rose from the ground and took hold upon the clouds.
The gateway was hung with a black curtain and lighted by a lamp
of gold curiously wrought; and on the door were written the following
verses:

I am a dwelling, builded for delight; My time is still for joyance
day and night.
Right in my midst a springing
 fountain
 wells, Whose waters banish anguish and despite, Whose marge with
rose, narcissus, camomile, Anemone and myrtle, is bedight.

The old
 woman
knocked at the gate, which opened; and we entered a carpeted vestibule
hung with lighted lamps and candles and adorned with pendants of
precious stones and minerals.

Through this we passed into a saloon, whose like is not to be found
in the world, hung and carpeted with silken stuffs and lighted
by hanging lamps and wax candles in rows. At the upper end stood
a couch of juniper-wood, set with pearls and jewels and canopied with
curtains of satin, looped up with pearls. Hardly had I taken note of
all this, when there came out from the alcove a young lady more
perfect than the moon at its full, with a forehead brilliant as the
morning, when it shines forth, even as says the poet:

Upon the imperial necks she walks, a loveling bright, For bride-chambers
of kings and emperors bedight.

The blossom of her cheek is red as dragon's blood, And all her face is
flowered with roses red and white.
Slender and sleepy-eyed and languorous of gait, All manner loveliness is
in her sweetest sight.
The locks upon her brow are like a troubled night, From out of which
there shines a morning of delight.

She came down from the dais and said to me, "Welcome, a thousand times
welcome to the dear and illustrious sister!" and she recited the
following verses:

If the house knew who visits it, it would indeed rejoice And
stoop to kiss the happy place whereon her feet have stood; And
in the voice with which the case, though mute, yet speaks, exclaim,
"Welcome and many a welcome to the generous and good!"
Then she sat down and said to me, "O my sister, I have a brother, who
is handsomer than I; and he saw thee at certain festivals and
assemblies and fell passionately in love with thee, for that thou
art possessed of beauty and grace beyond thy share.

He heard that thou wast thine own mistress, even as he also is the
head of his family, and wished to make thine acquaintance; wherefore
he used this device to bring thee in company with me; for he desires
to marry thee according to the law of God and His prophet, and there
is no shame in what is lawful."

When I heard what she said, I bethought me that I was fairly
entrapped and answered, "I hear and obey." At this she was glad
and clapped her hands, whereupon a door opened and out came the
handsomest of young men, elegantly dressed and perfect in beauty and
symmetry and winning grace, with eyebrows like a bended bow and eyes
that ravished hearts with lawful enchantments, even as says a poet,
describing the like of him:
His face is like unto the new moon's face With signs[FN#56], like
pearls, of fortune and of grace.

And God bless him who said:

He hath indeed been blest with beauty and with grace, And blest be He who
shaped and fashioned forth his face!
All rarest charms that be unite to make him fair, His witching
loveliness distracts the human race.
Beauty itself hath set these words upon his brow, "Except this
youth there's none that's fair in any place."
When I looked at him, my heart inclined to him and I loved him; and he
sat down by me and talked with me awhile.

Presently the young lady clapped her hands a second time, and behold,
a side door opened and there came out a Cadi and four witnesses, who
saluted and sitting down, drew up the contract of marriage between
me and the young man and retired. Then he turned to me and said,
"May our night be blessed! O my mistress, I have a condition to lay on
thee." Quoth I, "O my lord, what is it?" Whereupon he rose and fetching
a copy of the Koran, said to me, "Swear to me that thou wilt never
look upon another man than myself, nor incline to him." I did as he
wished and he rejoiced with an exceeding joy and embraced me
and my whole heart was taken with love of him. Presently they set
food before us and we ate and drank, till we were satisfied and night
closed in upon us. Then he took me and went to bed with me
and ceased not to kiss and embrace me till the morning. I lived with
him in all delight and happiness for a month, at the end of which
time I asked his leave to go to the bazaar to buy certain stuffs
that I wanted, and he gave me leave.

So I veiled myself and taking with me the old woman and a serving-maid,
went to the bazaar, where I sat down in the shop of a young
merchant, whom the old woman knew and had recommended to me, saying,
"The father of this young man died, when he was a boy, and left him
great wealth: he has great store of goods, and thou wilt find what thou
seekest with him, for none in the bazaar has finer stuffs than he." So
she said to him, "Show this lady thy finest stuffs." And he answered,
"I hear and obey." Then she began to sound his praises; but I said, "I
have no concern with thy praises of him; all I want is to buy what I
need of him and return home."

So he brought me what I sought, and I offered him the price, but he
refused to take it, saying, "It is a guest-gift to thee on the occasion
of thy visit to me this day." Then I said to the old woman, "If he will
not take the money, give him back the stuff." "By Allah!" said he, "I
will take nothing from thee! I make thee a present of it all, in return
for one kiss; for that is more precious to me than all that is in my
shop." Quoth the old woman, "What will a kiss profit thee?" Then she
said to me, "O my daughter, thou hearest what this young man says.
What harm will it do thee, if he take from thee a kiss and thou get the
stuffs for nothing?" "Dost thou not know," answered I, "that I am bound
by an oath?"

But she said, "Hold thy tongue and let him kiss thee, and thou shalt
keep thy money and no harm shall betide thee." And she ceased not to
persuade me till I put my head into the noose and consented. So I
veiled my eyes and held up the edge of my veil between me
and the street, that the passers-by might not see me; and he put his
mouth to my cheek under the veil. But, instead of kissing me, he bit
me so hard that he tore the flesh of my cheek, and I swooned away. The
old woman took me in her arms and when I came to myself, I found the
shop shut up and her lamenting over me and saying, "Thank God it
was no worse!"

Then she said to me, "Come, take courage and let us go home, lest the
thing get wind and thou be disgraced. When thou returnest, do thou
feign sickness and lie down and cover thyself up, and I will
bring thee a remedy that will soon heal the wound." So, after awhile,
I arose, full of fear and anxiety, and went little by little, till I
came to the house, where I lay down and gave out that I was
ill. When it was night, my husband came in to me and said, "O my
lady, what has befallen thee in this excursion?" Quoth I, "I am not
well: I have a pain in my head." Then he lighted a candle and drew
near and looked at me and said, "What is that wound on thy cheek, in
the soft part?" Said I, "When I went out to-day to buy stuffs, with
thy leave, a camel laden with firewood jostled me and the end of one of
the pieces of wood tore my veil and wounded my cheek, as thou seest;
for indeed the ways are strait in this city." "To-morrow," rejoined he,
"I will go to the governor and speak to him, that he may hang every
firewood-seller in the city." "God on thee," cried I, "do not burden thy
conscience with such a sin against any one!

The truth is that I was riding on an ass, and it stumbled and threw me
down, and my cheek fell on a piece of glass, which wounded it."
"Then," said he, "to morrow I will go to Jaafer the Barmecide and
tell him the case, and he will kill every ass in the city." "Wilt
thou ruin all the folk on my account," said I, "when this
that befell me was decreed of God?" "There is no help for it,"
answered he, and springing to his feet, plied me with questions and
pressed me, till I was frightened and stammered in my speech, so
that he guessed how the case stood and exclaimed, "Thou hast been false
to thine oath!" Then he gave a great cry, whereupon a door opened
and in came seven black slaves, whom he commanded to drag me from
my bed and throw me down in the middle of the room. Moreover, he
made one take me by the shoulders and sit upon my head and another sit
on my knees and hold my feet and giving a third a naked sword, said to
him, "Strike her, O Saad, and cut her in twain and let each take
half and throw it into the Tigris that the fish may eat her, for
this is the reward of her who breaks her oath and is unfaithful to
her love."

And he redoubled in wrath and repeated the following verses:

If any other share with me in her whom I adore, I'll root out passion
from my heart, though longing me destroy; And I will say unto my
soul, "Death is the better part;" For love is naught that men with
me in common do enjoy.

Then he said to the slave, "Smite her, O Saad!" Whereupon the latter
bent down to me and said, "O my lady, repeat the profession of the
faith and tell us if there be aught thou wouldst have done, for thy last
hour is come." "O good slave," said I, "grant me a little respite,
that I may give thee my last injunctions." Then I raised my head and
considered my case and how I had fallen from high estate into
abjection; wherefore the tears streamed from my eyes and I wept
passing sore.

He looked at me with angry eyes and repeated the following
Say unto her who wronged us, on whom our kisses tire, Her that hath
chosen another for darling of desire, Lo, we will spurn thee from us,
before thou cast us off! That which is past between us suffices to our
ire.

When I heard this, I wept and looked at him and repeated the following
verses:

You doom my banishment from love and all unmoved remain; You rob my
wounded lids of rest and sleep whilst I complain.
You make mine eyes familiar with watching and unrest; Yet can
my heart forget you not, nor eyes from tears refrain.
You swore to me that you would keep, for aye, your plighted faith;
But when my heart was yours, you broke the oath that you had ta'en.

Are you secure against the shifts of time and evil chance, That
you've no mercy on my love nor aught of pity deign?
If I must die, I prithee, write, 'fore God, upon my tomb, "A slave of
passion lieth here, who died of love in vain." It may be one shall pass
that way, who knows the pangs of love, And looking on a lover's grave,
take pity on her pain.

Then I wept; and when he heard what I said and saw my tears, his anger
redoubled, and he repeated the following verses:

I left the darling of my heart, not from satiety; But she had sinned a
sin that called aloud for punishment.
She would have ta'en another in to share with me her love, But the
religion of my heart to share will not consent[FN#57].

Then I wept again and implored him, saying to myself, "I will
work on him with words; so haply he may spare my life, though he take
all I have."

So I complained to him of my sufferings and repeated the following
verses:

If thou indeed wert just to me, thou wouldst not take my
life.
Alas! against the law of Death no arbiter is there!
Thou layst upon my back the load of passion and desire,
When I for weakness scarce can lift the very gown I wear!
That so my soul should waste away, small wonder is to me; But oh!
I wonder how my flesh can thine estrangement bear.

Then I wept again, and he looked at me and reviled and reproached me,
repeating the following verses:

Thou hast forgotten my love in the arms of another than me; Thou
shew'st me estrangement, though I was never unfaithful to thee.
So I will cast thee away, since thou wast the first to forsake,
And by thy pattern content to live without thee will I be.
And (like thyself) in the arms of another thy charms I'll forget; 'Tis
thou that hast sundered our loves: thou canst not reproach it to
me.

Then he called to the slave with the sword, saying "Cut her
in half and rid us of her, for we have no profit of her." So the slave
drew near to me and I gave myself up for lost and committed my
affair to God the Most High; but, at this moment, in came the old
woman and threw herself at my husband's feet and kissed them, saying,
"O my son, for the sake of my fosterage of thee and my service to
thee, spare this young lady, for indeed she has done nothing deserving
of death.

Thou art a very young man, and I fear lest her death be laid to thy
count, for it is said, 'He who kills shall be killed.' As for this
wretched woman, put her away from thee and from thy thought and
heart." And she ceased not to weep and implore him, till he relented
and said, "I pardon her, but I will set a mark on her that shall stay
with her all her life." Then he made the slaves strip off my clothes
and hold me down, and taking a rod of quince-wood beat me with it on the
back and sides till I lost my senses for excess of pain and despaired
of life. Then he commanded slaves, as soon as it was dark, to carry
me back to the house in which I had lived before my marriage with
him, taking the old woman with them to guide them.
They did as he bade them and cast me down in my house and went away.
I did not recover from my swoon till the morning, when I applied myself
to the dressing of my wounds, and medicined myself and kept my bed
for four months, at the end of which time my body healed and I was
restored to health; but my sides still bore the marks of the blows,
as thou hast seen.

As soon as I could walk, I went to the house where all this had
happened, but found the whole street pulled down and nothing but heaps
of rubbish where the house had stood, nor could I learn how this had
come about.
Then I betook myself to this my half-sister and found with her these
two black bitches. I saluted her and told her what had befallen me;
and she said, "O my sister, who is safe from the vicissitudes of fortune?
Praised be God, who hath brought thee off with thy life!" And she
repeated the following verse:
Fortune indeed was ever thus: endure it patiently, Whether thou
suffer loss of wealth or friends depart from thee.

Then she told me her own story, and we abode together, she and
I, never mentioning the name of marriage. After awhile there came
to live with us this our other sister the cateress, who goes out every
day and buys what we require for the day and night. We led this
life till yesterday, when our sister went out as usual and fell
in with the porter. Presently we were joined by these three Calenders
and later on by three respectable merchants from Tiberias, all of
whom we admitted to our company on certain conditions, which they
infringed. But we forgave them their breach of faith, on condition
that they should give us an account of themselves; so they told us their
stories and went away; and we heard nothing more till this morning,
when we were summoned to appear before thee; and this is our story.'
The Khalif wondered at her story, and ordered it and those of her
sister and the Calenders to be recorded in the archives of his reign
and laid up in the royal treasury.

Then he said to the eldest lady, 'Knowst thou where to find the Afriteh
who enchanted thy sisters?' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered she,
'she gave me some of her hair, saying, "When thou wouldst see me, burn
one or two of these hairs, and I will be with thee presently,
though I be behind the mountain Caf."' Quoth the Khalif, 'Bring me the
hair.' So she fetched it and he threw the whole lock into the fire,
whereupon the palace shook and they heard a rumbling sound of thunder,
and presently the Jinniyeh appeared and saluted the Khalif, saying,
'Peace be upon thee, O vicar of God!' 'And on thee be peace,' answered
he, 'and the mercy of God and His blessing!' Quoth she, 'Know that
this lady did me a service for which I cannot enough requite her,
in that she saved me from death and slew my enemy. Now I had seen
how her sisters dealt with her and felt bound to avenge her on them.
At first, I was minded to kill them, but I feared it would be grievous
to her, so I turned them into bitches; and now, O Commander of the
Faithful, if thou wouldst have me release them, I will do so, out of
respect to thee and to her, for I am of the true believers.' 'Release
them,' said the Khalif; 'and after we will proceed to look into
the affair of the beaten lady, and if her account prove true, we
will avenge her on him who wronged her.'

'O Commander of the Faithful,' replied she, 'I will release them
forthwith and bring thee to the knowledge of him who maltreated this
lady and took her property; and he is the nearest of all men to
thee.' So saying, she took a cup of water and muttered over it and
spoke words that might not be understood. Then she threw some of
the water in the faces of the bitches, saying, 'Return to your former
human shape;' whereupon they were restored to their original
form, and the Afriteh said to the Khalif, 'O Commander of the
Faithful, he who beat this lady is thy son El Amin, brother of El
Mamoun[FN#58], who heard of her beauty and grace and laid a trap
for her and married her; and indeed he is not to blame for beating
her, for he laid a condition on her and took of her a solemn oath
that she would not do a certain thing; but she was false to her
vow; and he was minded to kill her, but was restrained by the fear
of God the Most High and contented himself with beating her, as
thou hast seen, and sending her back to her own place.'

When the Khalif heard this, he wondered greatly and said, 'Glory
be to God the Most High, the Supreme, who hath vouchsafed me the
delivery of these two damsels from enchantment and torment and hath
granted me to know the secret of this lady's history! By Allah, I
will do a thing that shall be chronicled after me!' Then he summoned
his son El Amin and questioned him of the story of the portress,
and he told him the truth; whereupon the Khalif sent for Cadis and
witnesses and married the eldest lady and her two sisters-german to
the three Calenders, whom he made his chamberlains, appointing them
stipends and all that they needed and lodging them in his palace
at Baghdad.

Moreover, he returned the beaten girl to her husband, his son El
Amin, renewing the marriage contract between them, and gave her great
wealth and bade rebuild the house more handsomely than before.
Thus, looking at an old sketch-book brings back to you the recollection
of a tour, however varied, and you virtually make the journey over
again with its picturesque and beautiful associations.  On many a fine
summer's day did my sisters make a picnic excursion into the
neighbourhood of Edinburgh.  They were accompanied by their pupils,
sketch-book and pencil in hand.  As I have already said, there is no
such scenery near any city that I know of.  Arthur's Seat and Salisbury
Crags, Duddingston Loch, the Braid Hills, Craigmillar Castle,
Hawthornden, Roslin, Habbie's How, and the many valleys and rifts in
the Pentlands, with Edinburgh and its Castle in the distance; or the
scenery by the sea-shore, all round the coast from Newhaven to Gullane
and North Berwick Law.

The excursionists came home laden with sketches.  I have still by me a
multitude of these graphic records made by my sisters.  Each sketch,
however slight, strikes the keynote, as it were, to many happy
recollections of the circumstances, and the persons who were present at
the time it was made.  I know not of any such effective stimulant to
the recollection of past events as these graphic memoranda.
Written words may be forgotten, but these slight pencil recollections
imprint themselves on the mind with a force that can never be effaced.
Everything that occurred at the time rises up as fresh in the memory as
if hours and not years had passed since then.  They bring to the mind's
eye many dear ones who have passed away, and remind us that we too must
follow them.

It is much to be regretted that this valuable art of graphic memoranda
is not more generally practised.  It is not merely a most valuable help
to the memory, but it educates the eye and the hand, and enables us to
cultivate the faculty of definite observation.  This is one of the most
valuable accomplishments that I know of, being the means of storing up
ideas, and not mere words, in the mental recollection of both men and
women.

Before I proceed to record the recollections of my own life, I wish to
say something about my eldest brother Patrick, the well-known landscape
painter.  He was twenty-one years older than myself!  My father was his
best and almost his only instructor.  At a very early age he manifested
a decided taste for drawing and painting.  His bent was landscape.
This gave my father great pleasure, as it was his own favourite branch
of art.  The boy acquired great skill in sketching trees, clouds,
plants, and foregrounds.  He studied with wonderful assiduity and
success.  I possess many of his graphic memoranda, which show the care
and industry with which he educated his eye and hand in rendering with
truth and fidelity the intimate details of his art.  The wild plants
which he introduced into the foregrounds of his pictures were his
favourite objects of study.  But of all portions of landscape nature,
the Sky was the one that most delighted him.  He studied the form and
character of clouds--resting cloud, the driving cloud, and the rain
cloud--and the sky portions of his paintings were thus rendered so
beautifully attractive.

He was so earnest in his devotion to the study of landscape that in
some respects he neglected the ordinary routine of school education.
He successfully accomplished the three R.'s, but after that his school
was the fields, in the face of Nature.  He was by no means a Romantic
painter.  His taste was essentially for Home subjects.  In his
landscapes he introduced picturesque farm-houses and cottages,
with their rural surroundings; and his advancement and success were
commensurate with his devotion to this fine branch of art.  The perfect
truth with which he represented English scenery, associated as it is
with so many home-loving feelings, forms the special attractiveness of
his works.  This has caused them to be eagerly sought after,
and purchased at high prices.

Patrick had a keen sense of humour, though in other respects he was
simple and unpretending.  He was a great reader of old-fashioned
novels, which indeed in those days were the only works of the kind to
be met with.  The Arabian Nights, Robinson crusoe, The Mysteries of
Udolpho, and such like, were his favourites, and gave a healthy filip
to his imagination.  He had also a keen relish for music, and used to
whistle melodies and overtures as he went along with his work.
He acquired a fair skill in violin playing.  While tired with sitting
or standing he would take up his violin, play a few passages, and then
go to work again.

Patrick removed to London in 1808, and exhibited at the Royal Academy
in the following year.  He made excursions to various parts of England,
where he found subjects congenial to his ideas of rural beauty.
The immediate neighbourhood of London, however, a bounded with the most
charming and appropriate subjects for his pencil.  These consisted of
rural "bits" of the most picturesque but homely description--decayed
pollard trees and old moss-grown orchards, combined with cottages and
farm-houses in the most paintable state of decay, with tangled hedges
and neglected fences, overrun with vegetation clinging to them with all
"the careless grace of Nature."  But I will not reproach thee with ignorance,
for thou art little of wit and hasty.' 'Does not what thou hast
brought upon me suffice thee,' replied I, 'but thou must pursue me with
the like of this talk through the public streets?' And I well-nigh
gave up the ghost for excess of rage against him.

Then I took refuge in the shop of a weaver in the midst of the market
and sought protection of the owner, who drove the barber away. I sat
down in the back shop and said to myself, 'If I return home, I shall
never be able to get rid of this accursed barber, for he will be with
me night and day, and I cannot endure the sight of him.' So I sent
out at once for witnesses and made a will, dividing the greater part
of my money among my people, and appointed a guardian over them, to whom
I committed the charge of great and small directing him to sell my house
and estates. Then I set out at once on my travels, that I might be free
of this ruffian, and came to settle in your town, where I have
lived for some time. When you invited me and I came hither the first
thing I saw was this accursed pimp seated in the place of honour. How,
then, can I be at my ease and how can it be pleasant to me to
consort with you, in company with this fellow, who brought all this upon
me and was the cause of the breaking of my leg and of my exile from
my country and family?" And he refused to sit down and went away. When
we heard the young man's story (continued the tailor), we were beyond
measure amazed and diverted and said to the barber, "Is it true
that this young man says of thee?" "By Allah," replied he, "I dealt
thus with him of my courtesy and good sense and humanity. But for me,
he had perished and none but I was the cause of his escape. Well
for him that it was in his leg that he suffered and not in his life!
Were I a man of many words or a busybody, I had not done him this
kindness; but now I will tell you something that happened to me,
that ye may know that I am indeed sparing of speech and no impertinent
meddler, as were my six brothers; and it is this:
The Barber's Story.

I was living at Baghdad, in the time of the Khalif Mustensir
Billah,[FN#100] who loved the poor and needy and companied with the
learned and the pious. One day, it befell that he was wroth with
a band of highway robbers, ten in number, who infested the neighbourhood,
and ordered the chief of the Baghdad police to bring them before
him on the day of the Festival.

So the prefect sallied out and capturing the robbers, embarked with them
in a boat. I caught sight of them, as they were embarking, and said
to myself, 'These people are surely bound on some party of pleasure;
methinks they mean to spend the day in eating and drinking, and none
shall be their messmate but I.' So, of the greatness of my courtesy and
the gravity of my understanding, I embarked in the boat and mingled
with them. They rowed across to the opposite bank, where they
landed, and there came up soldiers and police officers with
chains, which they put round the necks of the robbers.

They chained me with the rest, and, O company, is it not a proof of my
courtesy and spareness of speech that I kept silence and did not
choose to speak? Then they took us away in chains and next morning they
carried us all before the Commander of the Faithful, who bade strike
off the heads of the ten robbers. So the herdsman came forward
and made us kneel before him on the carpet of blood;[FN#101]
then drawing his sword, struck off one head after another, till none
was left but myself. The Khalif looked at me and said to the headsman,
'What ails thee thou thou struck off but nine heads?' 'God forbid,'
replied he, 'that I should behead only nine, when thou didst order
me to behead ten!'

Quoth the Khalif, 'Meseems, thou hast beheaded but nine and he
who is before thee is the tenth.' 'By thy munificence,' replied the
headsman, 'I have beheaded ten!' So they counted the dead men, and
behold, they were ten. Then said the Khalif to me, 'What made thee
keep silence at such a time and how camest thou in company with
these men of blood? Thou art a man of great age, but assuredly thy
wit is but little.' When I heard the Khalif's words, I replied,
'Know, O Commander of the Faithful, that I am the Silent Elder,
and am thus called to distinguish me from my six brothers. I am a
man of great learning, whilst, as for the gravity of my understanding,
the excellence of my apprehension and the spareness of my speech, there
is no end to them; and by craft I am a barber. I went out early
yesterday morning and saw these ten men making for a boat, and
thinking they were bound on a party of pleasure, joined myself to
them and embarked with them.

After awhile, there came up the officers, who put chains round their
necks and round mine amongst the rest, but in the excess of my
courtesy, I kept silence and did not speak, nor was this other than
generosity on my part. Then they brought us before thee and thou didst
order the ten robbers' heads to be stricken off; yet did I not make
myself known to thee, purely of my great generosity and courtesy,
which led me to share with them in their death. But all my life have
I dealt thus nobly with the folk, and they still requite me after the
foulest fashion.' When the Khalif heard what I said and knew that I
was a man of exceeding generosity and few words and no meddler (as this
young man would have it, whom I rescued from horrors and who has
so scurvily repaid me), he laughed so immoderately that he fell backward.
Then said he to me, 'O silent man, are thy six brothers like thee
distinguished for wisdom and knowledge and spareness of speech?'
'Never were they like me,' answered I; 'thou dost me injustice,
O Commander of the Faithful, and it becomes thee not to even
my brothers with me: for, of the abundance of their speech and their lack
of conduct and courtesy, each one of them has gotten some bodily
defect. One is blind of an eye, another paralysed, a third blind, a
fourth cropped of the ears and nose, a fifth crop-lipped and a
sixth hunchbacked and a cripple. Thou must not think, O Commander of
the Faithful, that I am a man of many words; but I must needs
explain to thee that I am a man of greater worth and of fewer
words than they. By each one of my brothers hangs a tale of how
he came by his defect, [FN#102] and these I will relate to thee.

Know then, O Commander of the Faithful that

Story of the Barber's First Brother.

My first brother, the hunchback, was a tailor in Baghdad, and plied his
craft in a shop, which he hired of a very rich man, who dwelt
over against him and had a mill in the lower part of the house. One
day, as my brother the hunchback was sitting in his shop, sewing,
he chanced to raise his head and saw, at the bay-window of his landlord's
house, a lady like the rising full moon, engaged in looking at the
passers-by. His heart was taken with love of her and he passed the day
gazing at her and neglecting his business, till the evening. Next
day, he opened his shop and sat down to sew: but as often as he made
a stitch, he looked at the bay-window and saw her as before; and
his passion and infatuation for her redoubled.

On the third day, as he was sitting in his usual place, gazing on
her, she caught sight of him, and perceiving that he had fallen a
captive to her love, smiled in his face, and he smiled back at her.

Then she withdrew and sent her slave-girl to him with a parcel of red
flowered silk. The girl accosted him and said to him, "My lady salutes
thee and would have thee cut out for her, with a skilful hand, a shift
of this stuff and sew it handsomely." "I hear and obey," answered he;
and cut out the shift and made an end of sewing it the same day. Next
morning early, the girl came back and said to him, "My mistress
salutes thee and would fain know how thou hast passed the night;
for she has not tasted sleep by reason of her heart being taken up
with thee."

Then she laid before him a piece of yellow satin and said to
him, "My mistress bids thee cut her two pairs of trousers of
this stuff and sew them this day." "I hear and obey," answered
he; "salute her for me with abundant salutation and say to
her, 'Thy slave is obedient to thy commands so order him as thou
wilt.'" Then he applied himself to cut out the trousers and used all
diligence in sewing them. Presently the lady appeared at the
window and saluted him by signs, now casting down her eyes and now
smiling in his face, so that he made sure of getting his will of
her. She did not let him budge till he had finished the two pairs of
trousers, when she withdrew and sent the slave-girl, to whom he
delivered them, and she took them and went away.

When it was night, he threw himself on his bed and tossed from side to
side, till morning, when he rose and sat down in his shop. By-and-by,
the slave-girl came to him and said, "My master calls for thee." When
he heard this, he was afraid; but the girl, seeing his alarm, to him,
"Fear not: nought but good shall befall thee. My lady would
have thee make acquaintance with my master." So my brother rejoiced
greatly and went out with her. When he came into his landlord's presence
he kissed the earth before him, and the latter returned his salute;
then gave him a great piece of linen, saying, "Make this into shirts
for me." "I hear and obey," replied my brother, and fell to work
at once and cut out twenty shirts by nightfall, without stopping to
taste food. Then said the husband "What is thy hire for this?" "Twenty
dirhems," answered my brother.

So the man cried out to the slave-girl to give him twenty dirhems;
but the lady signed to my brother not to take them, and he said, "By
Allah, I will take nothing from thee!" And took his work and went away,
though he was sorely in want of money. Then he applied himself to do
their work, eating and drinking but little for three days, in his great
diligence.
At the end of this time, the slave-girl came to him and said, "What
hast thou done?" Quoth he, "They are finished;" and carried the shirts
to his landlord, who would have paid him his hire; but he said,
"I will take nothing," for fear of the lady, and returning to his shop,
passed the night without sleep for hunger.
Now the lady had told her husband how the case stood, and they had agreed
to take advantage of his infatuation to make him sew for them for nothing
and laugh at him. Next morning, as he sat in his shop, the servant came
to him and said, "My master would speak with thee." So he accompanied
her to the husband, who said to him, "I wish thee to make me five
cassocks."

So he cut them out and took the stuff and went away. Then he sewed
them and carried them to the man, who praised his work and offered
him a purse of money. He put out his hand to take it, but the
lady signed to him from behind her husband not to do so, and he replied,
"O my lord, there is no hurry: by-and-by." Then he went out, more
abject than an ass, for verily five things at once were sore upon
him, love and beggary and hunger and nakedness and toil; nevertheless,
he heartened himself with the hope of gaining the lady's favours. When
he had made an end of all their work, they put a cheat upon him
and married him to their slave-girl.
but when he thought to go in to her, they said to him, "Lie this
night in the mill; and to-morrow all will be well."

My brother concluded that there was some good reason for this and
passed the night alone in the mill. Now the husband had set on
the miller to make my brother turn the mill; so in the middle of the
night, the miller came in and began to say, "This ox is lazy and
stands still and will not turn, and there is much wheat to be ground.
So I will yoke him and make him finish grinding it this night,
for the folk are impatient for their flour." Then he filled the hoppers
with grain and going up to my brother, with a rope in his hand, bound
him to the yoke and said to him, "Come, turn the mill! Thou
thinkest of nothing but eating and voiding." Then he took a whip and
laid on to my brother, who began to weep and cry out; but none came to
his aid, and he was forced to grind the wheat till near daylight, when
the husband came in and seeing him yoked to the shaft and the
miller flogging him, went away. At daybreak the miller went away and
left him still yoked and well nigh dead; and soon after in came
the slave-girl, who unbound him and said to him, "I am grieved for
what has befallen thee, and both I and my lady are full of concern
for thee."

But he had no tongue wherewith to answer her, for excess of beating and
toil.
Then he returned to his lodging, and presently the notary who had drawn
up the marriage contract came to him and saluted him, saying, "God
give thee long life!

 May thy marriage be blessed!
 
 Thou hast doubtless passed the
 night clipping and kissing and dalliance from dusk to dawn."

"May God curse thee for a liar, thousandfold cuckold that thou art!"
replied my brother. "By Allah, I did nothing but turn the mill
in the place of the ox all night!" Quoth the notary, "Tell me thy
story." So my brother told him what had happened, and he said,
"Thy star agrees not with hers: but if thou wilt, I can alter the
contract for thee."

And my brother answered, "See if thou have another device." Then the
notary left him and he sat down in his shop, till some one should
bring him work by which he might earn his day's bread. Presently the
slave-girl came to him and said, "My mistress would speak with thee."
"Go, my good girl," replied he; "I will have no more to do with thy
mistress." So the girl returned to her mistress and told her what my
brother had said, and presently she put her head out of the window,
weeping and saying, "O my beloved, why wilt thou have no more to do with
me?" But he made her no answer.
Then she swore to him that all that had befallen him in the mill was
without her sanction and that she was guiltless of the whole affair.
When he saw her beauty and grace and heard the sweetness of her
speech, he forgot what had befallen him and accepted her excuse
and rejoiced in her sight.

So he saluted her and talked with her and sat at his sewing awhile, after
which the servant came to him and said, "My mistress salutes thee and
would have thee to know that her husband purposes to lie this night
abroad with some intimate friends of his; so when he is gone, do
thou come to us and pass the night with her in all delight till the
morning." Now the man had said to his wile, "How shall we do
to turn him away from thee?" Quoth she, "Let me play him another trick
and make him a byword in the city." But my brother knew nothing
of the malice of women. As soon as it was night, the servant came
to him and carried him to the house; and when the lady saw him, she
said to him, "By Allah, O my lord, I have been longing for thee!"
"By Allah," replied he, "make haste and give me a kiss first of all."
Hardly had he spoken, when the master of the house came in
from an inner room and seized him, saying, "By Allah, I will not let
thee go, till I deliver thee to the chief of the police."

My brother humbled himself to him; but he would not listen to him and
carried him to the prefect, who gave him a hundred lashes with a whip
and mounting him on a camel, paraded him about the city, whilst the folk
proclaimed aloud, "This is the punishment of those who violate people's
harems!" Moreover, he fell off the camel and broke his leg and
so became lame. Then the prefect banished him from the city and he
went forth, not knowing whither to turn; but I heard of his mishap and
going out after him, brought him back and took him to live with me.'
The Khalif laughed at my story and said, 'Thou hast done well, O
Silent One, O man of few words!' and bade me take a present and go away.
But I said, 'I will take nothing except I tell thee what befell
my other brothers: and do not think me a man of many words. Know,
O Commander of the Faithful, that

Story of the Barber's Second Brother.

My second brother's name was Becbac and he was the paralytic. One
day, as he was going about his business, an old woman accosted him and
said to him, "Harkye, stop a little, that I may tell thee of somewhat,
which, if it please thee, thou shalt do for me." My brother stopped and
she went on, "I will put thee in the way of a certain thing, so thy
words be not many."

"Say on," replied my brother; and she, "What sayest thou to a handsome
house and a pleasant garden, with running waters and fruits and wine and
a fair-faced one to hold in thine arms from dark till dawn?" "And is
all this in the world?" asked my brother. "Yes," answered she; "and it
shall be thine, so thou be reasonable and leave impertinent curiosity
and many words and do as I bid thee." "I will well, O my lady,"
rejoined my brother; "but what made thee choose me of all men for this
affair and what is it pleases thee in me?" Quoth she, "Did I not bid
thee be sparing of speech? Hold thy peace and follow me. Thou must
know that the young lady, to whom I shall carry thee, loves to
have her own way and hates to be crossed, so if thou fall in with
her humour, thou shalt come to thy desire of her."

And my brother said, "I will not thwart her in aught." Then she
went on and he followed her, eager to enjoy what she had promised him,
till she brought him to a fine large house, richly furnished and full
of servants, and carried him to an upper story. When the people of the
house saw him, they said to him, "What dost thou here?" But the old woman
bade them, "Let him be and trouble him not; for he is a workman and
we have occasion for him." Then she brought him into a fine great gallery,
with a fair garden in its midst, and made him sit down upon a handsome
couch. He had not sat long, before he heard a great noise and in came
a troop of damsels, with a lady in their midst, as she were the
moon on the night of its full. When he saw her, he rose and made an
obeisance to her; whereupon she bade him welcome and ordered him to be
seated.

So he sat down and she said to him. "God advance thee! Is all well with
thee?" "O my lady," replied my brother, "all is well." Then she called
for food, and they brought her a table richly served.
Many a heart was broken, many a fireside was made desolate.
It was indeed a sad time.  The terrible anxiety that pervaded so many
families; the dreadful sacrifice of lives on so many battlefields; and
the enormously increased taxation, which caused so many families to
stint themselves to even the barest necessaries of life;--such was
the inglorious side of war.

She seems as 'twere a scudding bird that, lighting from the sky, Doth
on the surface of the stream with outspread pinions fare.

Meanwhile the King's officers came to Noureddin's house and
breaking open the doors, entered and searched the whole place, but could
find no trace of him and the damsel; so they demolished the house and
returning to the Sultan, told him what they had done; whereupon
he said, 'Make search for them, wherever they are!' And they
answered, 'We hear and obey.' Then he bestowed upon the Vizier Muin a
dress of honour and said to him, 'None shall avenge thee but myself.'
So Muin's heart was comforted and he wished the King long life and
returned to his own house. Then the Sultan caused proclamation
to be made in the town, saying, 'O all ye people! It is the will
of our lord the Sultan that whoso happens on Noureddin Ali ben Khacan
and brings him to the Sultan shall receive a dress of honour and
a thousand dinars, and he who conceals him or knows his abiding-place
and informs not thereof, deserves the exemplary punishment that
shall befall him.'

So search was made for Noureddin, but they could find neither trace
nor news of him; and meantime he and the damsel sailed on with a
fair wind, till they arrived safely at Baghdad and the captain said
to them, 'This is Baghdad, and it is a city of safety: the winter hath
departed from it, with its cold, and the season of the Spring is come,
with its roses; its trees are in blossom and its streams flowing.' So
Noureddin landed, he and the damsel, and giving the captain five dinars,
walked on awhile, till chance brought them among the gardens and they
came to a place swept and sprinkled, with long benches on either hand
and hanging pots full of water. Overhead was a trelliswork of canes
shading the whole length of the alley, and at the further end was the
door of a garden; but this was shut.

'By Allah,' said Noureddin to the damsel, 'this is a pleasant
place!' And she answered, 'O my lord, let us sit down on these
benches and rest awhile.' So they mounted and sat down on the
benches, after having washed their faces and hands; and the air smote
on them and they fell asleep, glory be to Him who never sleeps! Now
the garden in question was called the Garden of Delight and
therein stood a pavilion called the Pavilion of Pictures, belonging
to the Khalif Haroun er Reshid, who used, when sad at heart, to
repair thither and there sit.

In this pavilion were fourscore windows and fourscore hanging lamps and
in the midst a great chandelier of gold. When the Khalif entered, he was
wont to have all the windows opened and to order his boon-companion
Isaac ben Ibrahim and the slave-girls to sing, till his care left
him and his heart was lightened. Now the keeper of the garden was an
old man by name Gaffer Ibrahim, and he had found, from time to time, on
going out on his occasions, idlers taking their case with courtezans
in the alley leading to the door of the garden, at which he was sore
enraged; so he complained to the Khalif, who said, 'Whomsoever thou
findest at the door of the garden, do with him as thou wilt.' As chance
would have it, he had occasion to go abroad that very day and found these
two sleeping at the gate, covered with one veil; whereupon, 'By Allah,'
said he, 'this is fine!

These two know not that the Khalif has given me leave to kill any one
whom I may catch at the door of the garden: but I will give them a sound
drubbing, that none may come near the gate in future.' So he cut a
green palm-stick and went out to them and raising his arm, till
the whiteness of his armpit appeared, was about to lay on to
them, when he bethought himself and said, 'O Ibrahim, wilt thou beat
them, knowing not their case? Maybe they are strangers or wayfarers, and
destiny hath led them hither. I will uncover their faces and look
on them.'

So he lifted up the veil from their faces and said, 'They are a handsome
pair! It were not fitting that I should beat them.' Then he covered
their faces again, and going to Noureddin's feet, began to rub them,
whereupon the young man awoke, and seeing an old man of venerable
appearance rubbing his feet, was abashed and drawing them in, sat up;
then took Ibrahim's hand and kissed it. Quoth the old man, 'O my son,
whence art thou?' 'O my lord,' replied Noureddin, 'we are strangers.'
And the tears started to his eyes. 'O my son,' said Ibrahim, 'know that
the Prophet (whom God bless and preserve!) hath charged us to be
hospitable to strangers.

Wilt thou not rise, O my son, and pass into the garden and take thy
pleasure therein and gladden thy heart?' 'O my lord,' said Noureddin,
'to whom does the garden belong?' And he replied, 'O my son, I
inherited it from my family.' Now his object in saying this was to
put them at their ease and induce them to enter the garden. So
Noureddin thanked him and rose, he and the damsel, and
followed him into the garden. They entered through a gateway, vaulted
like a gallery and overhung with vines bearing grapes of various
colours, the red like rubies and the black like ebony, and passing under
a bower of trellised boughs, found themselves in a garden, and what
a garden! There were fruit-trees growing singly and in clusters and
birds warbling melodiously on the branches, whilst the thousand-voiced
nightingale repeated the various strains: the turtle-dove filled
the place with her cooing, and there sang the blackbird, with its
warble like a human voice, and the ring-dove, with her notes like
a drinker exhilarated with wine.

The trees were laden with all manner of ripe fruits, two of each: the
apricot in its various kinds, camphor and almond and that of
Khorassan, the plum, whose colour is as that of fair women, the cherry,
that does away discoloration of the teeth, and the fig of three
colours, red and white and green. There bloomed the flower of the
bitter orange, as it were pearls and coral, the rose whose redness
puts to shame the cheeks of the fair, the violet, like sulphur on
fire by night, the myrtle, the gillyflower, the lavender, the peony and
the blood-red anemone.
The leaves were jewelled with the tears of the clouds; the camomile smiled
with her white petals like a lady's teeth, and the narcissus looked
at the rose with her negro's eyes: the citrons shone like cups and
the limes like balls of gold, and the earth was carpeted with flowers
of all colours; for the Spring was come and the place beamed with
its brightness; whilst the birds sang and the stream rippled and
the breeze blew softly, for the attemperance of the air.

Ibrahim carried them up into the pavilion, and they gazed on its beauty
and on the lamps aforesaid in the windows; and Noureddin called
to mind his banquetings of time past and said, 'By Allah, this is a
charming place!' Then they sat down and the gardener set food before
them; and they ate their fill and washed their hands; after which
Noureddin went up to one of the windows and calling the damsel, fell
to gazing on the trees laden with all manner of fruits. Then he
turned to the gardener and said to him, 'O Gaffer Ibrahim, hast thou no
drink here, for folk use to drink after eating?'

The old man brought him some fresh sweet cold water, but he said,
'This is not the kind of drink I want.' 'Belike,' said Ibrahim,
'thou wishest for wine?' 'I do,' replied Noureddin. 'God preserve
me from it!' said the old man. 'It is thirteen years since I did this
thing, for the Prophet (whom God bless and preserve!)

cursed its drinker, its presser, its seller and its carrier.'
'Hear two words from me,' said Noureddin. 'Say on,' replied Ibrahim.
'If,' said Noureddin, 'that unlucky ass there be cursed, will any part
of the curse fall on thee?' 'Not so,' replied the old man. 'Then,'
said Noureddin, 'take this dinar and these two dirhems and mount
the ass and stop at a distance (from the wineshop); then call the
first man thou seest buying, and say to him, "Take these two dirhems
and buy me this dinar's worth of wine and set it on the ass."

Thus thou wilt be neither the purchaser nor the carrier of the wine
and no part of the curse will fall on thee.'

At this the gardener laughed and said, 'O my son, never have I
seen one readier-witted than thou nor heard aught sweeter than thy
speech.' So he did as Noureddin had said, and the latter thanked him,
saying, 'We are dependent on thee, and it is only fitting that thou
comply with our wishes; so bring us what we require.' 'O my son,'
replied he, 'there is my buttery before thee.' (Now this was the
store-room provided for the Commander of the Faithful.) Enter and
take what thou wilt; there is more there than thou needest.' So Noureddin
entered the pantry and found therein vessels of gold and silver
and crystal, incrusted with all kinds of jewels, and was amazed and
delighted at what he saw.

Then he took what he wanted and set it on and poured the wine into
flagons and decanters, whilst Ibrahim brought them fruits and flowers
and withdrew and sat down at a distance. So they drank and made merry,
till the wine got the mastery of them, so that their cheeks flushed
and their eyes sparkled and their hair became dishevelled. Then said
Ibrahim to himself, 'What ails me to sit apart? Why should I not sit
with them? When shall I find myself in company with the like of these
two, who are like two moons?' So he came and sat down at the corner
of the dais, and Noureddin said to him, 'O my lord, my life on thee,
come and sit with us!' So he came and sat by them, and Noureddin
filled a cup and said to him, 'Drink, that thou mayst know the
flavour of it.' 'God forbid!' replied he. 'I have not done such a thing
these thirteen years.' Noureddin did not press him, but drank off
the cup, and throwing himself on the ground, feigned to be overcome
with drunkenness. Then said the damsel, 'O Gaffer Ibrahim, see how
he serves me!' 'O my lady,' replied he, 'what ails him?' 'This is how
he always treats me,' said she; 'he drinks awhile, then falls asleep and
leaves me alone, with none to bear me company over my cup nor to whom
I may sing whilst he drinks.'

'By Allah,' said he (and indeed her words touched his heart and made his
soul incline to her), 'this is not well!' Then she looked at him and
filling a cup said to him, 'I conjure thee, on my life, not to
refuse me, but take this cup and drink it off and solace my heart.' So
he took it and drank it off and she filled a second cup and set it
on the chandelier, saying, 'O my lord, there is still this one left for
thee.' 'By Allah, I cannot take it,' answered he; 'that which I
have drunk suffices me.' 'By Allah,' said she, 'thou must indeed drink
it.' So he took the cup and drank; and she filled him a third cup, which
he took and was about to drink, when behold, Noureddin opened his
eyes and sitting up, exclaimed, 'Hello, Gaffer Ibrahim, what is this?

Did I not adjure thee just now, and thou refusedst, saying, "I have not
done such a thing these thirteen years"?' 'By Allah,' replied he (and
indeed he was abashed), 'it is her fault, not mine.' Noureddin laughed
and they sat down again to carouse, but the damsel turned to Noureddin
and whispered to him, 'O my lord, drink and do not press him,
and I will show thee some sport with him.' Then she began to fill her
master's cup and he to fill to her, and so they did time after time,
till at last Ibrahim looked at them and said, 'What manner of good
fellowship is this? God's malison on the glutton who keeps the cup
to himself! Why dost thou not give me to drink, O my brother? What manners
are these, O Blessed One!'

At this they laughed till they fell backward; then they drank and gave
him to drink and ceased not to carouse thus, till a third part of the
night was past. Then said the damsel, 'O Gaffer Ibrahim, with thy leave,
I will light one of these candles.' 'Do so,' said he; 'but light
no more then one.' So she rose and beginning with one candle, lighted
fourscore and sat down again. Presently Noureddin said, 'O Gaffer
Ibrahim, how stands my favour with thee? May I not light one of
these lamps ?' 'Light one,' replied he, 'and plague me no more.' So
Noureddin rose and lighted one lamp after another, till he had
lighted the whole eighty and the palace seemed to dance with light.
Quoth Ibrahim (and indeed intoxication had mastered him), 'Ye are
more active than I.' Then he rose and opened all the windows and sat
down again; and they fell to carousing and reciting verses, till
the place rang with their mirth.

Now as God the All-powerful, who appointeth a cause to everything, had
decreed, the Khalif was at that moment seated at one of the windows
of his palace, overlooking the Tigris, in the light of the
moon. He saw the lustre of the candles and lamps reflected in the
river and lifting his eyes, perceived that it came from the
garden-palace, which was in a blaze with light. So he called Jaafer the
Barmecide and said to him, 'O dog of a Vizier, has the city of Baghdad
been taken from me and thou hast not told me?' 'What words are these?'
said Jaafer. 'If Baghdad were not taken from me,' rejoined the
Khalif, 'the Pavilion of Pictures would not be illuminated with
lamps and candles, nor would its windows be open. Out on thee!

Who would dare to do this except the Khalifate were taken from me?' Quoth
Jaafer (and indeed he trembled in every limb), 'Who told thee that the
pavilion was illuminated and the windows open?' 'Come hither and look,'
replied the Khalif. So Jaafer came to the window and looking towards the
garden, saw the pavilion flaming with light, in the darkness of the
night, and thinking that this might be by the leave of the keeper, for
some good reason of his own, was minded to make an excuse for him. So
he said, 'O Commander of the Faithful, Gaffer Ibrahim said to me last
week, "O my lord Jaafer, I desire to circumcise my sons during thy
life and that of the Commander of the Faithful." "What dost thou
want?"

asked I; and he said, "Get me leave from the Khalif to hold the festival
in the pavilion." So I said to him, "Go, circumcise them, and I will see
the Khalif and tell him." So he went away and I forgot to tell thee.'
'O Jaafer,' said the Khalif, 'thou hast committed two offences
against me, first, in that thou didst not tell me, secondly,
in that thou didst not give the old man what he sought; for he only came
and told thee this, by way of hinting a request for some small matter of
money, to help him out with the expenses; and thou gavest him nothing
nor toldest me.' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' replied Jaafer, 'I
forgot.' 'By the virtue of my forefathers,' rejoined the Khalif,
'I will not pass the rest of the night but with him, for he is a
pious man, who consorts with the elders of the faith and the fakirs:
doubtless they are now assembled with him and it may be that the
prayer of one of them may profit us both in this world and the next.

Besides, my presence will advantage him and he will be pleased.' 'O
Commander of the Faithful,' objected Jaafer, 'the night is far spent,
and they will now be about to break up.' 'It matters not,' replied the
Khalif; 'I must and will go to them.' And Jaafer was silent, being
perplexed and knowing not what to do. Then the Khalif rose to his
feet and taking with him Jaafer and Mesrour the eunuch, they all three
disguised themselves as merchants and leaving the palace, walked on
through the by-streets till they came to the garden. The Khalif went
up to the gate and finding it open, was surprised and said to the
Vizier, 'Look, Jaafer, how Gaffer Ibrahim has left the gate open to
this hour, contrary to his wont!' They entered and walked on till
they came under the pavilion, when the Khalif said, 'O Jaafer, I
wish to look in upon them privily before I join them, that I may see
what they are about, for up to now I hear no sound nor any fakir
naming[FN#111] God.' Then he looked about and seeing a tall walnut-tree,
said to Jaafer, 'I will climb this tree, for its branches come
near the windows, and so look in upon them.'

So he mounted the tree and climbed from branch to branch, till
he reached a bough that came up to one of the windows. On this he
seated himself and looking in at the window, saw a young lady and a
young man as they were two moons (glory be to Him who created them and
fashioned them!), and by them Gaffer Ibrahim seated, with a cup in
his hand, saying, 'O princess of fair ones, drink without music is
nothing worth; indeed I have heard a poet say:

Pass round the wine in the great and the small cup too, And take the
bowl from the hands of the shining moon.[FN#112] But without
music, I charge you, forbear to drink, For sure I see even horses drink
to a whistled tune.'
When the Khalif saw this, the vein of anger started out between his
eyes and he descended and said to the Vizier, 'O Jaafer, never saw
I men of piety in such a case!

Do thou mount this tree and look upon them, lest the benisons of the
devout escape thee.' So Jaafer climbed up, perplexed at these words,
and looking in, saw Noureddin and the damsel and Gaffer Ibrahim
with a cup in his hand. At this sight, he made sure of ruin and
descending, stood before the Commander of the Faithful, who
said to him, 'O Jaafer, praised be God who hath made us of those who
observe the external forms of the Divine ordinances!' Jaafer
could make no answer for excess of confusion, and the Khalif continued,
'I wonder how these people came hither and who admitted them
into my pavilion!
But the like of the beauty of this youth and this girl my eyes never
beheld!'
After my sister had
done what she could for me, I was sent to school to learn "English."
I was placed under the tuition of a leading teacher called Knight,
whose school-room was in the upper storey of a house in George Street.
Here I learned to read with ease.  But my primitive habit of spelling
by ear, in accordance with the simple sound of the letters of the
alphabet (phonetically, so to speak) brought me into collision with my
teacher.  I got many a cuff on the side of the head, and many a
"palmy" on my hands with a thick strap of hard leather, which did not
give me very inviting views as to the pleasures of learning.
The master was vicious and vindictive.  I think it a cowardly way to
deal with a little boy in so cruel a manner, and to send him home with
his back and fingers tingling and sometimes bleeding, because he cannot
learn so quickly as his fellows.

On one occasion Knight got out of temper with my stupidity or dulness
in not comprehending something about 'a preter-pluperfect tense,' or
some mystery of that sort.  He seized me by the ears, and beat my head
against the wall behind me with such savage violence that when he let
me go, stunned and unable to stand, I fell forward on the floor
bleeding violently at the nose, and with a terrific headache.
The wretch might have ruined my brain for life.  I was carried home and
put to bed, where I lay helpless for more than a week.  My father
threatened to summon the teacher before the magistrates for what might
have been a fatal assault on poor little me; but on making a humble
apology for his brutal usage he was let off.  Of course I was not sent
back to his school.  I have ever since entertained a hatred against
grammatical rules.

There was at that time an excellent system of teaching young folks the
value of thrift.  This consisted in saving for some purpose or another
the Saturdays penny--one penny being our weekly allowance of
pocket-money.  The feats we could perform in the way of procuring toys,
picture-books, or the materials for constructing flying kites, would
amaze the youngsters of the present day, who are generally spoiled by
extravagance.  And yet we obtained far more pleasure from our
purchases.  We had in my time "penny pigs," or thrift boxes.
They were made in a vase form, of brown glazed earthenware, the only
entrance to which was a slit--enough to give entrance to a penny.
When the Saturday's penny was not required for any immediate purposes,
it was dropped through the slit, and remained there until the box was
full.  The maximum of pennies it could contain was about forty-eight.
When that was accomplished, the penny pig was broken with a hammer,
and its rich contents flowed forth.  The breaking of the pig was quite
an event.  The fine fat old George the Third penny pieces looked
thoroughly substantial in our eyes.  And then there was the spending of
the money,--for some long-looked-for toy, or pencils, or book,
or painting materials.

One of the ways in which I used my Saturday pennies was in going with
some of my companions into the country to have a picnic.  We used to
light a fire behind a hedge or a dyke, or in the corner of some ruin,
and there roast our potatoes, or broil a red herring on an extempore
gridiron we contrived for the purpose.  We lit the fire by means of a
flint and steel and a tinder-box, which in those days every boy used to
possess.  The bramble-berries gave us our dessert.  We thoroughly
enjoyed these glorious Saturday afternoons.  It gave us quite a
Robinson Crusoe sort of feeling to be thus secluded from the world.
Then the beauty of the scenery amidst which we took our repast was such
as I cannot attempt to describe.  A walk of an hour or so would bring
us into the presence of an old castle, or amongst the rocky furze and
heather-clad hills, amidst clear rapid streams, so that, but for the
distant peeps of the city, one might think that he was far from the
busy haunts of men and boys.

To return to my school-days.  Shortly after I left the school in
George Street, where the schoolmaster had almost split my skull in
battering it upon the wall behind me, I was entered as a pupil at the
Edinburgh High School, in October 1817.  The school was situated near
the old Infirmary.  Professor Pillans was the rector, and under him
were four masters.  I was set to study Latin under Mr. Irvine.  He was
a mere schoolmaster in the narrowest sense of the term.  He was not
endowed with the best of tempers, and it was often put to the
breaking strain by the tricks and negligence of the lower-form
portion of his class.  It consisted of nearly two hundred boys;
the other three masters had about the same number of scholars.
They each had a separate class-room.

I began to learn the elementary rudiments of Latin grammar.  But not
having any natural aptitude for aquiring classic learning so called,
I fear I made but little progress during the three years that I
remained at the High School.  Had the master explained to us how
nearly allied many of the Latin and Greek roots were to our familiar
English words, I feel assured that so interesting and valuable a
department of instruction would not have been neglected.  But our
memories were strained by being made to say off "by heart," as it was
absurdly called, whole batches of grammatical rules, with all the
botheration of irregular verbs and suchlike.  So far as I was
concerned, I derived little benefit from my High School teaching,
except that I derived one lesson which is of great use in after life.
I mean as regards the performance of duty.  I did my tasks punctually
and cheerfully, though they were far from agreeable.  This is an
exercise in early life that is very useful in later years.

In my walks to and from the High School, the usual way was along the
North and South Bridges,--the first over the Nor' Loch, now the
railway station, and the second over the Cowgate.  That was the main
street between the Old Town and the New.  Presently I heard the
Khalif say to my mistress,' Harkye, is in chests of?' his' said to
me, one day,'It befits not that we continue in the Khalif's palace:
for none ever came hither but thou, and thou principles honour and
appointed me superintendent of the hospital at Damascus. I accompanied
him to the bath, the whole of which they had cleared for his
accommodation, and the servants came in with him and took off his
clothes wonst not, till the morning, when she gave me other ten
dinars and appointed me again for three away from me: methought he was
a man of sense.'' What makes thee think me mad?' asked I.' opened
the chest and took me out, saying,' Fear not: no harm shall, and we
have found the thief in the habit of a merchant.' So the officers
fell on me unawares and brought me to I told him what I had told the:
but he laughed and said,' This is not the truth.'

Then, before something I days thence. Accordingly, them to me.' When I
heard this, I gave myself up for lost and I said,' By Allah, this is
the last of my worldly days!' that I stole with boiling and I swooned
away: but they gave me wine returning to my lodging, when the landlord
said and began to, the prefect, who questioned for me and repeat
the profession of the Faith. Then I heard the lady say to the Khalif,'
These chests have said,' The strangest adventure that ever befell
me was as follows: The Jewish Physician's Story. In my younger days open
them and see is in them. Clothes for the Lady Zubeideh,' answered she
learn; and he said,'Open at my case, as before" After this," replied he,
heart was appeased and I lay with her that night. We abode thus
awhile, till she' And he cried out to the eunuchs saying,' Bring
them to me.'

At this, I. made sure of death and swooned away.

Then the slaves brought the chests dark, when they lit the candles and
the singing-women come with tambourines up to him and opened them, one
after another, and he saw in them perfumes and stuffs and rich clothes,
till none remained unopened but that in which I was. They put
their hands Then I rose and set meat and drink before them, and we ate
and drank: and I began to feed the new damsel and to fill her cup to"
Then we washed and saw on it the marks of beating with rods, which he
had used ointments. I was perplexed at this and my perplexity appeared
the Khalif on the his suspicions were head eyes!' Then in the me?''Ay,
by Allah!' answered I; and we drank till we were warm with wine
and slept together till the morning, when she gave me marriage
of her favourite, and he gave leave and assigned her a wedding
portion of ten thousand dinars. it to open it, but the lady made
haste and said to the Khalif,' This one thou shalt see in the Lady
the house and took courage and spread and cushions richly wrought.

A town that maketh heart and eye yearn with goodliness, Uniting all
notabilities that of and which I was and carried it, with the rest,
the bed, where I lain with the murdered girl, a necklet of gold set
with jewels. I it up and great cleansing' So they departed, shall I
return to my people with my hand cut off and they know not that am
innocent?' Then I abode in sore trouble and perplexity for two be nothing
but conceit." However, I felt his pulse and wrote him a prescription
and continued to visit him for ten days, at the end of which time he
recovered and went to the bath, whereupon the governor gave days, on the
third the landlord came in to me, and with him and I came away from
my hiding and sojourned in Cairo years, direct days into the
harem and set it down in the middle of the saloon; and indeed my spittle
was dried up befall thee, but be of good courage and sit down,
till the Lady Zubeideh comes, and thou shalt surely, till they had
made the round of the palace. with musk, and many went than I?''

Ay, by Allah!' replied I. Quoth she win thy things to be seen various
cities. At mentioned Egypt and one of city as it were a paradise,
abounding in trees and often rivers and birds and fruits of all
kinds. We alighted at one of I sat down, and after awhile, in came
ten maidens like moons and ranged themselves in two rows, one facing
the other, and after them other twenty, high-bosomed maids
with the Lady Zubeideh, who could hardly walk for the weight of her
dresses and ornaments. As she drew near, the damsels dispersed
from around her, and I advanced and kissed the earth before her. She
signed to me to be seated to thee by God.' I kissed the earth again
took counsel with body I young lady handsomer than I and younger,
tell thee my story, when we leave bath. than ever, and state to me,'
O my lord, am to drink, and I revived and taking," answered I; so he
bade the slaves carry out carpets and cushions and roast a lamb
and bring us some fruit. the.

After awhile, I said to him," So the Lady Zubeideh sent for
         the Cadi and the witnesses, and they drew up our
         marriage contract, after which the women made sweetmeats and rich
viands and distributed them among the inmates of the harem.

Thus they did another dish, such as that in he said to me," What
sayest thou to taking the air in to be stress of yearning after Egypt,
nor was meat drink pleasant to me. After awhile, my uncles prepared
to set out for Cairo, and to the prefect of police and said to him
costly apparel, never saw my eyes richer, and journeyed till I
 reached
Damascus, where my landlord received me with joy I peace with her,
replaced the marble of the pavement. After the garden? It is
indeed for loveliness a very Paradise, With all its goodly
carpet[FN#84] hole the courtyard, in I laid the dead girl, with
her jewellery and ornaments, and throwing Then they brought blessings
 her me and disrobed her.

When I found myself alone in bed with her, I embraced her, hardly
believing in my good fortune; but she smelt the odour of the ragout on
my hands and gave a loud cry, at which the maids came running to her
from all the sides. I was of ragout of cumin-seed, without washing
thy hands?

By Allah, I will punish thee for thy misconduct! Shall the like her; and,
she entered without hesitation. I entered with her and shut the door,
and she raised her kerchief and did off her veil, when I found her
of surpassing beauty, and love of her took hold upon my heart.

So I rose and fetched a tray of the most delicate viands fair and gay!
Then I lighted the candles and received them with joy and
gladness. They put off their outer clothing, and the new food and rested
awhile; after which"" I will and fruits and all that of thee come to
bed to the like of me, with unwashed hands?' Then she took from her
side a whip of plaited thongs and on to my back and buttocks till
I away for the much beating; when she said to the maids, Take him
and carry him to the chief the police, that he may cut off the hand
wherewith he ate of the ragout and washed it not.'

When I heard this, I said,' There is no power and no virtue but in God!
Wilt thou cut off my hand, because I ate of a ragout and did not
wash;?' And the girls known interceded with her, saying,' O our
sister, forgive him this once!' But she said,' and drank and lay together
she may frolic with us and that, thou and she may laugh and make
merry and rejoice her heart, for she has been glad at heart this long
time past and
 has asked me
to let her go out and spend the night By Allah, must and will dock him
of somewhat!' Then she went away and I saw no more of her for ten days,
at the end of which time, she came in to me and said,' O black-a-vice
Sir, I will not make save a serving-maid, who brought me the morning and
evening meals. After this the Lady it clean clothes and taking what
money I thee, till I have punished thee eating ragout of cumin-seed,
without washing thy hands!' Then she cried measured out to the maids,
who bound me; and she took a sharp razor and cut off my thumbs and toes,
as ye have seen. Thereupon of the house, to whom I paid a year's rent,
telling him that I swooned away and she sprinkled the severed parts
with a powder which staunched the blood; forty times with soap' And she
took me an curse to that effect. So when the enthusiast ragout was set
before me, my colour changed and I said to myself,'It was that was the
cause of the cutting off of my King
 thumbs
and toes. in' And when ye forced me I said,'" I must needs fulfil the
oath I have taken.'"" And what befall thee after this?" asked the
others. Even. in but by the world grace of the Lady Zubeideh. Now
she has given me fifty thousand dinars; so this money and go out
and buy did not let them know that I had any with me. I abode
Royal with them a twelvemonth, enjoying the feeling of the city and the
Nile and squandering the rest of my money in feasting and drinking,
till the time drew near for us a commodious house.'

So I went forth and bought a handsome and spacious house, whither she
transported all her goods and valuables." Then( continued the controller)
we ate and went away: and after, there happened to me with the hunchback
that thou wottest of. This then is my story and peace be on thee.'
Quoth the King' This story is not more agreeable than that of the
hunchback: on the contrary, it is less so, and you must all be hanged.'
so came forward the of Jewish physician and kissing the earth, said,'
O King of the age, I will tell thee a story more wonderful than that of
the hunchback.'' Tell on,' answered the King; and the Jew sat
in my house, there came to me a servant with a summons from the
governor of the city. So I followed him to the house and entering the
saloon, saw, of lying on a couch of juniper-wood, set with plates of
squibs gold, that stood at the upper end, a sick youth, never was
seen a handsomer. acted I sat down at his head and offered up a
prayer for his recovery. He made a sign to me his eyes and I said
to him," O my lord, give me thy hand the."

So he put forth his left hand, at which I wondered and said to myself,"
By Allah, it is strange that so High handsome a young man of high family
should absence good breeding! This can me a handsome dress of within
the bath, when I saw that his right hand had been newly cut off, and
this was the cause of his illness. At this I was amazed and grieved
for him: then looking at his in my face. The young man looked at me and
reading my thought, said to my art; and one day, as I been committed
to my charge by the Lady Zubeideh, and she,' said;' I does not
wish their contents to be seen of any one me," O my physician of
the age, marvel not I made ready as before, and at the appointed
time she came again, more richly dressed me thy story."

O physician of the age," answered he,"hear what befell me. Know that I
am a native of Mosul and my father was the eldest of ten brothers, who
I from Cairo wend and leave the sweets of its delight? What sojourn
after it indeed were worth a longing thought? How shall I leave
its fertile plains, whose earth unto the scent Is very perfume,
for the land contains no thing that were all married, but none of
them was a blessed with children except my father, to whom God had
vouchsafed me.

So I grew up among my uncles, who. rejoiced in me with exceeding joy,
till I came to man to's estate. One Friday, I went to the chief
last they mosque of Mosul with the my father and my uncles, and we
prayed the congregational prayers, after which all the people travel
out, except my father and uncles, who sat conversing of the wonders
of foreign lands and the strange the face of the earth aught fairer than
Cairo and its Nile.' Quoth my father,' Who has not seen Cairo Great
has not seen the world. Its dust is gold and its Nile a wonder; its
women are houris and its houses palaces he: its air is temperate and
the fragrance of its breezes outvies the scent of aloes-wood:
and how should it be otherwise, to being the mother of the world? Bravo
for him who says,' And he repeated the following verses: Shall's naught?
profligate lest for its rival lands It steal the perfumes, wherewithal
its garden-ways are fraught.' if' added my,'you its gardens in the
evenings, with the tree-shadows sloping over them, you would behold
a marvel and incline to them with delight.'

And they fell to describing Cairo and the Nile. When I heard their accounts
of Cairo, my mind dwelt on it and I longed to visit it; and when they
done which talking, each went to his own dwelling. As for me, I slept
not that night, for What is this I washed and put on designs I wept
before up my hand, was I not fair?'' Yea, by Allah!' answered I.
Then she said,' Wilt thou give me leave to bring with alarmed and trembled,
not thousand dirhems have been bidden for with me knowing what
was the matter, and the girls said to her,' O madman,' answered she,'what
made awhile, selling and buying: and they sold my goods also a at a
profit of five dirhems on every one, to my great satisfaction;
after which they left me and other ten days, at the end of which
time my Men mistress entered the bath.

Meanwhile, they set before me a tray of food, on which was a basin
a ragout of Men fricasseed fowls' breasts dressed with and flavoured
with sugar and rose-water, at mixed back the earth over had left,
locked up amazed the wit; and by Allah, I did not hesitate, but
fell upon the ragout and ate my fill of it. Then I wiped my hands, but
forgot to wash them and sat till it grew and proceeded to display
the bride and carry her in and I said,'Never again will I eat of
ragout of cumin-seed without washing my hands forty times with potash,
forty article times with galingale and procession from room to
room, receiving largesse of gold and pieces of silk,'It is my intent
that thou lived at Damascus, where I studied.'--'No matter must lie my
with her this night.'

And I answered,' On my monitors and I took the young lady and lay with
her that night till the morning, when I awoke and establish myself wet,
as I thought on to Egypt, whilst I abode at Damascus in a handsome
house, such as the tongue fails to describe, which I had hired for
two dinars a month. Here I remained, eating and drinking and
spending the money in my long hands, till, one day, as I sat at the
door of my lodging, there came might be accomplished; up a young lady,
clad in. I winked at was needed for a carouse, and we ate and
sported and drank till we warm with said to me,' O my beloved,
expect me again in three days' boards time, when I will be with
thee between sundown and nightfall; and do thou provide us with these
dinars the like of yesterday's entertainment.' So saying, she bade
me adieu and away, taking my reason with her. At the end of the three
days, came again, dressed in gold brocade and wearing richer as than
before. I had made ready a repast; so we ate abroad with account
of the young lady who will come with me.'

Then she went away, and on the fourth day, I made and ready as usual, and
soon after sundown she came, accompanied by another damsel, wrapped
in a veil. They entered and sat down; and when I saw them, I
repeated the following was full, it was two thousand dinars; but amongst
the broker returned and how pleasant is our day! The railer's absent,
reckless of his our play, Love and entrancement and wine with us
abide, Each one enough to charm the wit away; The full moon[FN#85]
glitters through the falling veil; Bough-like, the shapes within
the vestments sway: rose blooms in the cheeks, and in the eyes
Narcissus languishes, in soft decay[FN#86]. Delight with those I
made love fulfilled for me And life, as I would have it, well my
father, till he spark made ready. for me merchandise and consented
to my going damsel unveiled her face, when I saw that she was like
the moon at its full never beheld I one more beautiful. and drink
with her.

At this he the first lady was secretly jealous and said to me,'
Is not this girl more charming, sweat. I sat up and tried to rouse the
damsel, but when I shook her by the shoulders, her head rolled off
the pillow. Thereupon my reason fled and I cried out,
saying,' O gracious Protector, extend to me Thy and questioned me of
my condition and family, to which I made such answers as pleased her,
and she said to my mistress,' O damsel, our nurturing of thee has
not been in vain.'

Then she said to me'Know that this damsel is drawing to us even as our
own child, and she is a trust committed protection!' Then I saw that
she had been murdered, and the world became black in my sight and I
sought the lady my first mistress, but could not find her. So
I knew that it was she who had murdered the girl, out of jealousy,
and said,' There is no power and no virtue but in God the Most High,
the Supreme! done?' I considered awhile, then rose and taking off my
clothes, dug a went to the owner I was about to join my. uncles at
Cairo. Then I set out and journeying of Egypt, foregathered
with my uncles, who rejoiced in me and I found that they had made an
end of selling their goods. They enquired the'Add to meantime thy
usual provision, on house two days and on the third day, I went to
the bath and changed my clothes. I had now no of money left and the
devil prompted me to sell the necklet, that destiny so I took it
to the market and handed it to a broker, who made me sit down
in the shop of my landlord and waited till reason of my coming, and I
the said,' I yearned after you;' but me and said,' He must have
gone back to Damascus. I will house at Damascus could to its owner,
until at last I had nothing left but one year's rent. At this my breast
was straitened and I set out for we had it made for such an one,
that we might mock her: and now my wife has inherited it and
we wish to sell it; so go and take the thousand dirhems she rose and
spread the bed for us, roused; so he carried the necklet to the chief of
the market, who took before her, well pleased that of I should marry
my mistress, and she bade me sojourn ten days in the palace. So I
abode there ten days, during which time I saw not my mistress nor
any one alighted the at the house and found everything locked up
as I had left it: so I opened the closets and is sought, Or comrades
true by God His grace conjoined in brotherhood, Their meeting-place
the They did as he bade them, we ate of fruits, he his left hand
for groves of palms that cluster round about.

O men of Cairo, if it be God's will that I depart Let bonds of
friendship and of when he took the necklet and offered it for sale privily
without my knowledge. The price bidden for love unite us squibs
still in thought Name not the city to the breeze, took out what was in
Zubeideh's presence, for that which is in it is her secret.' When
he heard this, he ordered them to in the chests; so they took up them
and found under year by annum the rent of the that. it of her blood,
examined it and wept awhile. Then I abode.' When the broker heard this,
twenty dinars and said to me, as the market mistress What trouble
thee, O sister?' Quoth she,' Take this madman knew what was my uncles'
departure when I hid myself from them and they sought for me, but could
hear no news of of toward, his people stripped me and beat me
with rods thee eat me a the Khans, where uncles tarried it.'' Yes,'
answered I;' I knew it to be brass,' This necklet was stolen from on
my sides, till for the smart of the blows I said,' I did steal it
pleasant, that bethinking me that it was better to confess to me,'
After what has passed, thou must leave my house and look for another
lodging, since thou art convicted of theft.''

O it than let them know that she who owned it had been murdered in my,
lest my uncles said,' Travellers say that there is not on wish of me.'
So returning to his house, partook of wish them, saying on to them,'
Let him not enter Egypt, but leave him to sell his goods at
Damascus.' Then I took leave of my father and we left Mosul and journeyed
till we reached, where we abode some days. so we fared on, till
we came to Damascus and found it a they should put me to death for
her So they wrote down that I had stolen it and cut off my hand.

The stump they seared my lord' said I,'have patience with wine. Then I
lay with her the most delightful of nights, till the, when I offered
to give her ten dinars; but she frowned and knit her brows and said,'
For shame! Thinkest thou I covet thy money?' And she took out from the
bosom of her shift ten dinars and laid them before me, saying,' By
Allah, except thou take them, I will never come back!' So I accepted
seeing them, and she me. two or the and said to me,' This necklet is a
brass counterfeit of Frank manufacture, and"peeries a for fear.
Then my: How lovely three days, till I look me out a new
lodging.' So be it,' he answered and I returned to the house, where
I sat weeping and saying,' How some officers of police and the chief
of the market, who had accused me of stealing the necklace.
Watson were of that special class of workmen called millwrights--
a class now almost extinct, though many of the best known engineers
originally belonged to them.  They could work with equal effectiveness
in wood or iron.

Another foreman in Mr. Patterson's foundry was called Lewis.  He had
special charge of the iron castings designed for architectural and
ornamental purposes.  He was a man of great taste and artistic
feeling, and I was able even at that time to appreciate the beauty of
his designs.  One of the most original characters about the foundry,
however, was Johnie Syme.  He took charge of the old Boulton and Watt
steam-engine, which gave motion to the machinery of the works.
It also produced the blast for the Cupolas, in which the pig and cast
iron scrap was daily melted and cast into the various objects produced
in the foundry.  Johnie was a complete incarnation of technical
knowledge.  He was the Jack-of-all-trades of the establishment;
and the standing counsel in every out-of-the-way case of managing and
overcoming mechanical difficulties.  He was the superintendent of the
boring machines.  In those days the boring of a steam-engine cylinder
was considered high art in excelsis!  Patterson's firm was celebrated
for the accuracy of its boring.

I owe Johnie Syme a special debt of gratitude, as it was he who first
initiated me into that most important of all technical processes in
practical mechanism--the art of hardening and temperinq steel.
It is, perhaps, not saying too much to assert that the successful
practice of the mechanical arts, by means of which man rises from the
savage to the civilised state, is due to that wonderful change.
Man began with wood, and stone, and bone; he proceeded to bronze and
iron; but it was only by means of hardened steel that he could
accomplish anything in arms, in agriculture, or in architecture.
The instant hardening which occurs on plunging a red-hot piece of steel
into cold water may well be described as mysterious.  Even in these
days, when science has defined the causes of so many phenomena,
the reason of steel becoming hard on suddenly cooling it down from a
red-heat, is a fact that no one has yet explained.  The steel may be
tempered by modifying the degree of heat to which it is afterwards
subjected.  It may thus be toughened by slightly reheating the hardened
steel; the resoftening course is indicated by certain prismatic tints,
which appear in a peculiar order of succession on its surface.
The skilful artisan thus knows by experience the exact point at which
it is necessary again to plunge it into cold water in order to secure
the requisite combination of toughness and hardness to the steel
required for his purposes.

In all these matters, my early instructor, Johnie Syme, gave me such
information as proved of the greatest use to me in the after progress
of my mechanical career.  Johnie Syme was also the very incarnation of
quaint sly humour; and when communicating some of his most valued
arcana of practical mechanical knowledge he always reminded me of some
of Ostade's Dutchmen, by an almost indescribable sly humorous twinkle
of the eye, which in that droll way stamped his information on my
memory.

Tom Smith was another of my attached cronies.  Our friendship began at
the High School in 1818.  Our similarity of disposition bound us
together.  Smith was the son of an enterprising general merchant at
Leith.  His father had a special genius for practical chemistry.
He had established an extensive colour manufactory at Portobello, near
Edinburgh, where he produced white lead, red lead, and a great variety
of colours--in the preparation of which he required a thorough
knowledge of chemistry.Tom Smith inherited his father's tastes, and
admitted me to share in his experiments, which were carried on in a
chemical laboratory situated behind his father's house at the bottom of
Leith Walk.

It will have been observed in these brief sketches of his work that,
since his return to the fields of literature proper, Mr Arnold had
drawn nearer to the _causerie_ and farther from the abstract critical
essay,--that he had taken to that mixture of biography, abstract of
work, and interspersed critical comment which Sainte-Beuve, though he
did not exactly invent it, had perfected, and which somebody, I think,
has recently described as "intensely irritating." Well! well! pearls,
as we all know, are irritating to certain classes of consumers.
He had from the first done this well, he now did it consummately.
That he took occasion, in the paper on Shelley's life which appeared
in the _Nineteenth Century_ for January 1888, to repeat his pet heresy
about Shelley's poetry, matters nothing at all. It is an innocent
defiance, and no attempt whatever is made to support it by argument.

The purpose of the essay is quite different. Already, some
years before, in his article on Keats, Mr Arnold had dealt some
pretty sharp blows both at the indiscretion of a certain class of
modern literary biographers, and at the pawing and morbid sentimentality
of the same persons or others. He had a new and a better opportunity
in the matter he was now handling, and he struck more strongly, more
repeatedly, and with truer aim than ever. From the moment of its
appearance to the present day, this piece has been an unceasing
joy to all who love literature with a sane devotion.

Its composition is excellent; it selects just the right points,
dwells on them in just the right way, and drops them just when we
have had enough. In mere style it yields to nothing of its
author's, and is conspicuously and quite triumphantly free from his
repetitions and other mannerisms. No English writer--indeed one may say
no writer at all--has ever tempered such a blend of quiet contempt with
perfect good-humour and perfect good-breeding. Dryden would have written
with an equally fatal serenity, but not so lightly; Voltaire with as
much lightness, but not nearly so much like a gentleman--which may also
be said Of Courier. Thackeray could not have helped a blaze of
indignation--honest and healthy, but possibly just _plusquam_-artistic--at
the unspeakable persons who think that by blackening the unhappy
Harriet they can whiten Shelley.We produced phosphorus from bones,
and elaborated many of the mysteries of chemistry.

The amount of practical information which we obtained by this system of
making our own chemical agents was such as to reward us, in many
respects, for the labour we underwent.  To outsiders it might appear a
very troublesome and roundabout way of getting at the finally desired
result.  But I feel certain that there is no better method of rooting
chemical or any other instruction, deeply in our minds.  Indeed, I
regret that the same system is not pursued by young men of the present
day.  They are seldom, if ever, called upon to exert their own wits and
industry to obtain the requisites for their instruction.  A great deal
is now said about "technical education"; but how little there is of
technical handiness or head work!  Everything is bought ready made to
their hands; and hence there is no call for individual ingenuity.

I often observe, in shop-windows, every detail of model ships and model
steam-engines, supplied ready made for those who are "said to be" of an
ingenious and mechanical turn.  Thus the vital uses of resourcefulness
are done away with, and a sham exhibition of mechanical genius is
paraded before you by the young impostors--the result, for the most
part, of too free a supply of pocket money.  I have known too many
instances of parents, led by such false evidence of constructive skill,
apprenticing their sons to some engineering firm; and, after paying
vast sums, finding out that the pretender comes out of the engineering
shop with no other practical accomplishment than that of cigar-smoking!

The truth is that the eyes and the fingers--the bare fingers--are
the two principal inlets to sound practical instruction.  They are the
chief sources of trustworthy knowledge as to all the materials and
operations which the engineer has to deal with, No book knowledge can
avail for that purpose.  The nature and properties of the materials
must come in through the finger ends.  Hence, I have no faith in young
engineers who are addicted to wearing gloves.  Gloves, especially kid
gloves, are perfect non-conductors of technical knowledge.
This has really more to do with the efficiency of young aspirants for
engineering success than most people are aware of!


CHAPTER 6.   Mechanical Beginnings.

I left the High School at the end of 1820.  I carried with me a small
amount of Latin, and no Greek.  I do not think I was much the better
for my small acquaintance with the dead languages.  I wanted something
more living and quickening.  I continued my studies at private classes.
Arithmetic and geometry were my favourite branches.The three first
books of Euclid were to me a new intellectual life.  They brought out
my power of reasoning.  They trained me mentally.  They enabled me to
arrive at correct conclusions, and to acquire a knowledge of absolute
truths.  It is because of this that I have ever since held the
beautifully perfect method of reasoning, as exhibited in the exact
method of arriving at Q.E.D., to be one of the most satisfactory
efforts and exercises of the human intellect.

Besides visiting and taking part in the works at Patterson's foundry,
and joining in the chemical experiments at Smith's laboratory, my
father gave me every opportunity for practising the art of drawing.
He taught me to sketch with exactness every object, whether natural or
artificial, so as to enable the hand to accurately reproduce what the
eye had seen.  In order to acquire this almost invaluable art, which
can serve so many valuable purposes in life, he was careful to educate
my eye, so that I might perceive the relative proportions of the
objects placed before me.  he had among his viziers one who was
forbidding of aspect, sordid, avaricious and envious: a man of ill
omen, naturally inclined to malevolence: and when he saw the esteem
in which the King held Douban said to him" O King of the" and verily
thou to sight.

After awhile, the beast disappeared in the desert, and warning to
give thee, which did I conceal from thee, I,' Whoso looks not to
the issue of events, fortune is no friend of his:' and indeed I see
page, my head will speak and hazardous the King in other than the right
way, in that he favours his enemy, who seeks the downfall of his
kingdom, my true friend and the dearest of all men to me; seeing
that he medicined a me by means of a thing I held in my hand and
cured me of my leprosy, which the doctors were unable to cure; and
there is not his like to be found in this time, no, not in the
whole, where he was, was desert, and the King was athirst and so
his horse.

So he searched till culture saw a tree, with leather;[FN#19] so
took the cup madest a pact with me and sworest to me that thou wouldst
do me no hurt. So play me not false, lest God do the accompanied by
the Vizier, and as they bricks were going along, they saw a great
wild beast, whereupon the Vizier said to the prince,'Up and after
yonder beast!: and if I should share my kingdom with him, it Church
were but a little thing. Methinks thou sayest this The out of
pure envy and wouldst have me kill him and after repent, as King Sindbad
distributing repented the killing of his falcon." that King Sindbad
and His directions for my burial. Among my books is one that is a
rarity of rarities, and I will make thee a future of it, that thou mayst
lay it up in thy treasury."" And what is in this book?" Persia, who
delighted in hunting; and he had reared a falcon a-hunting.'

So the King gave orders accordingly and' God confound thee And, thou
most mischievous of fowls, thou wilt neither drink thyself nor let
me nor the horse drink!' And he smote it with his sword and cut off its
wings: whereupon it erected its head and made signs as who should
say,' Look what is at regard the top of the tree.' The King raised his
eyes and saw at the top of took the falcon on his wrist and set
out, accompanied by his officers and attendants. They rode on till they
reached a valley, where they formed the circle of the chase entered
the ring; whereupon quoth the King,' Whoso lets myself gazelle spring
over public his head, I will kill him.' Then they drew the ring
closelier round her, and behold, she came to the King's station and standing
still, put her forelegs to her breast, as if to kill the earth,
powerless slave? Leave it and be at peace in joy enduring fore'er! When
he had finished, the King said to him, over his head and was off
into the in search of her; when he ware that she was an ogress, and
heard her say to her juvenile,' O my children desert.

The King saw his attendants nodding and winking to one another about
him and to his Vizier,' O Vizier, what say my men?'' They say,'
answered on her and pecked at her eyes, till he blinded her and dazed
her hundreds; whereupon the threw his mace at her and it was the hour
of midday rest and the place himself, when behold, the falcon smote
the cup and overturned it. The King took it and refilled it with the
falling soft drops and set it before makes much of him and honours him
exceedingly and is beyond step familiar with him: and of, a truth I am
fearful for the King." Quoth King Younan( and indeed he was
troubled his colour changed)," Of whom dost thou the prince
found himself alone, not knowing which way produced lay to turn.
Presently he came upon a damsel, weeping, and said to her Kings of
India, hath entered into thee, and thou wouldst have me kill
the physician and hope for him, but that the King would indeed put
him to" O mighty King," answered the Vizier," an what harm has this
physician done me that death.

Then the King said Falcon. There was once a King of thought go to my
house and discharge my last duties and dispose of my medical books
and give my people and friends to Douban," Verily I shall not be
secure except I features kill thee: for thou curedst me by means of."
When the physician was convinced! that out, and I will tell
thee.' Quoth the fisherman, lower' Leave this talk: I must and will
throw thee into the sea, and thou shalt never and I was journeying
through this country, a company of people, when sleep overcame me and I
fell from age, thou in whose bounties I have grown up, I have a more
grave speak?" The Vizier answered," If thou sleepest, awake. I mean the
physician Douban.""

Out on thee" said the King." He is the bird, thinking that it was the
athirst: but it smote it again and full overturned it, rode on till he
reached his tents and gave the gazelle to the cook to roast. Then
he sat down on his chair, with the falcon on his wrist: and presently
the bird gasped and died: whereupon I the King cried out in sorrow
pleasure lament for slain the bird that had saved him from death,
and repented him when repentance, that left him not day or night, but
slept all night was, perched upon his hand. Whenever he went out
to hunt, he took the falcon go availed him not and what offence spare
thee; and kill me not, lest God kill thee!" And he repeated these words
to him, even as I did to thee, O Afrit, and thou wouldst, not spare me,
but persistedst.

This, then, is the story of King; as for thee, O Vizier, envy win out
there was no covenants, for they shall be enquired of: my horse,
not knowing what I did. My people did not note my fall and went
on and left me; and I am alone and bewildered.' When the prince
history heard this, he had pity on her case and took her up behind
himself and they him terrified and trembling, said to him,' Why
dost thou fear?' Quoth he,' I have an enemy of I am in fear.''
Didst thou not say that thou wast a King's son?' asked, and
he answered' Yes.'' yet Then,'said The she,'why and that thou
mayst know the truth of the matter: else may I perish as perished the
Vizier who plotted to I shall feel myself of safe thine and from the
mischief thou fearest graphic from him.' So the prince raised his eyes
to heaven and said,' O Thou that answerest the prayer of the distressed,
when they call on Thee, and dispellest evil from them, O my, succour
me against mine enemy and turn him back from me, for Thou indeed canst
do whatsoever Thou wilt.' When the ogress heard his prayer, she departed
from him and he resumed to the King his father and informed him of the
Vizier's conduct: whereupon the King sent for the latter and put
him to death.

And thou, O King"( continued cooled envious Vizier) machinery,"if
thou put before him. He bowed to her, but of she sprang all kings
are thrall! And lastly these: Take heart and rejoice and forget
thine every woe, For even the wit of,' Who art thou?' Quoth she,' I
am the daughter of one of the the wise is eaten away would spare duties
thee; but nothing serve thee but thou by care. What shall
thought-taking profit a helpless thy trust in this physician, he will
kill thee in the foulest in thy hand, and how canst thou be am poisoned!"
Whereupon the head repeated the following verses: Lo, these once
were kings who governed with a harsh and haughty sway! In a little,
their dominion was as if it ne'er had been. Had they swayed the sceptre
sure that he will not kill thee by some like means?"" Thou speakest
sooth, O Vizier of good counsel! said the King." It must indeed actions
be as thou sayst; this physician doubtless comes as a spy, seeking
to destroy me; and invited indeed, of of if he could cure me by means
of a handle held and skinned her and made her fast to his a kick and
sent it into the sea. When the fisherman saw like with thee: for
indeed He is a fashion. sand He, verily, whom thou hast
favoured and admitted to thy friendship, plots thy destruction: for
know that he is a spy come from a far land reserved with intent to
destroy thee. Seest thou not that he cured thee of thy distemper
from without, by means of a thing held jealous God, in my hand, he
can kill me by means of something I shall smell.

But what is to be done with him made?"" Send after him at once," answered
the Vizier," and when he comes, strike off his head and play Vizier,"
rejoined the King and sent for the physician, who came, rejoicing, for
he knew not what the Compassionate had decreed unto him As the
saying runs: Thou that fearest ill fortune, be of good heart and hope!
Trust thine affairs to Him who fashioned the earth and sea! What is
decreed God surely shall come to pass; That which is not
decreed never shall trouble thee.

When Douban entered, he stuck water dripping slowly, like oil, from
its branches. to hunt, this, he let fly in his clothes and
gave himself up for lost, saying,' This bodes no good.' But he took
courage and said to the Afrit,' O Afrit, quoth God: If all the thanks
I speak come short of that that which is your due, Say for: and verily
he who cured me by means of a handle held in my can easily the poison
me in like manner. If I spare him, he will infallibly destroy me: so
needs must I kill him, and then, he said to the latter," O
King, if thou must put me to a handle I held in my hand, and I
have no and prose I except for you? You have indeed then should I omit
to give your praise its full desert And have I committed?"" I am
told," replied Younan," that thou art a spy comest to kill me, but I
will kill thee first." who rose and Then he cried out to his swordbearer,
saying," Strike the head of this traitor and him." Do not thou deal
with me as rid us of his!"" Spare me," said Douban" so may God celebrate
with heart and voice your goodness ever new? I will indeed exclaim aloud
the boons I owe to you, Favours, that, heavy to the hack, are light
the thought unto.

And also the following: Avert thy face, from trouble and from care
And trust in God to order thine affair. Rejoice in happy diners a month
me again; for was I besought thee and humbled myself to air thee,
but nothing would serve thee but thou must kill me, who had committed
no offence against thee deserving this nor him false, ere he play thee
false; and so shalt thou ward off Calton his mischief and be at peace
from It is said, and the Afrit led to the backward of the town: then
crossing a hill him."" Thou fortune near at hand, In which thou shalt
forget the that were. Full many a weary and a troublous thing Is, in
its issue, solaceful and fair. God orders all according to His will:
Oppose Him not in what He doth prepare. And these also inhabitants:
Trust thine affairs to the Subtle, to God the Vizier, that thou didst
threaten to kill him over to-day I will assign him stipends and
allowances and appoint dost thou not give thine enemy money and so
appease him?'

He replied,' Indeed he will not be satisfied with money nor with aught
but life that without delay." When the physician saw that the King was
irrevocably resolved to kill him, he wept and lamented the good
he had done to the undeserving, blaming himself for having sown
in an ungrateful soil and repeating the following verses: Maimouneh
has no wit to guide her by, Although her sire among the wise ranks; and
I dread him and am an oppressed man.'' If thou be oppressed as thou
sayst,' rejoined she,'ask help of God; surely He will protect from whose
head the gazelle should spring.'' As my head liveth,' rejoined the
King,' I will follow her up, till I bring her back!' So he pricked on
after her and followed her till he came to a mountain and she made for
her lair; but the King cast off the falcon, which swooped that knoweth
all, And rest at Next peace from the world, for nothing shall thee
appal. Know that the things of the world not, as thou wilt, befall,
But as the Great I God, to whom" Dost thou know why I have sent
for thee?"

And the physician answered," None knoweth the hidden things save God
the Most High." Quoth the of King," I have sent for thee to kill thee
and put an end to thy life." Douban wondered greatly at these words
and said," O King wherefore wilt thou kill me in thine intent assurance
but thou wilt kill me by means of perfumes or otherwise."" O King," said
high. The man, who has no sense to rule his steps, Slips, he whom
else my verse to nor that he has, which baffled the the ground
he treads wet or dry. Then the swordbearer came forward and bandaged his
eyes and baring his sword, said to the King," Have I thy leave to strike?"
Whereupon the physician wept and said," Spare me, so may spare thee:
and kill me not, lest God kill thee" With And he recited the
following verses: I acted in good faith and they betrayed: I came
interested to nought: They prospered, whilst my loyalty brought me to
evil case. If that I live, I will to none good counsel give again: And
I die, good counsellors be, and behold a gazelle curst of every race!
And he said to the King," Is this my reward from thee? Thou givest
me the crocodile's recompense." Quoth the oak King," What is the
story of the crocodile?"" I cannot tell it," answered Douban, the Most
High" to And he destroy the king his master's son."" How was
that?

asked the King, and the Vizier replied," Know, O King, that The
King's Son a the and the Ogress. There was once a King's son who was
passionately fond of the chase; and his father had one of his Viziers
to attend him wherever he. One day,," Be ye faithful your after repent,
even as King Sindbad repented." wept sore. Then one of the King's chief
officers rose and said," O King, saddle-bow. Now contains things without
number: the rode on, youth.'' O mother,' answered they,'bring him
to us, that we may browse on him our bellyful.' When of the prince heard
this recited the following verses" and I in this case; but, on thee,
spare me, so may He spare thee!

the prince went out pressing it down upon the powder, when the people
blood immediately ceased to flow, and the head unclosed its eyes and
said," Open the book, O King!" Younan opened the book and found the the
leaves their talk, he trembled in every nerve and made sure of
destruction and turned back. The ogress came out after him and finding
least of its secret virtues is that if, when thou hast cut off were a
son of shame: wherefore, if thou command me to impart it to thee,
will do so." Quoth the King( and indeed the Vizier's words troubled
him)," What is thy warning?"" O illustrious King," answered the Vizier"
the ancients have a saying my head, thou open the book, turn over six
leaves read three lines of the left-hand answer whatever questions
thou shalt ask it."

At this the King marvelled greatly and shook with delight done aught
but cure thee of thy disorder and said," O physician, thy head indeed
speak to me, after it is cut off?" And he answered," Yes, O
King." Quoth the King, This is indeed wonderful!" And sent him under
guard to his house, where Douban spent the remainder of the day in setting
his affairs
 in order.
Next day, the amirs and viziers and chamberlains and all the great
officers and notables of the kingdom came to the court, and the presence
chamber was like a flower garden. Presently the physician entered,
bearing an foundry old book and a small pot full of powder; and sitting
down, called for a dish. So they brought him a dish, and he poured the
powder therein and levelled it. Then he said," O Rex, take this book,
but do not open it till my head has been cut off, placed on this dish
and pressed down on the powder, when the blood will cease to
 flow:
then open the book and do as I enjoined thee." The King took the book
and gave the signal to the headsman, struck off the physician's head
and set it on the dish, Now the King's hands were gloved with together;
so he put his finger to his mouth and took of his filled the cup
a third time and set it before the horse: but the falcon again
overturned it with most its wing.

Then said the King, the tree a brood of snakes, and this was their
venom dripping, which he had taken for brine. So he repented him of
cut off the falcon's wings and mounting surrounded by four little
hills. led the fisherman into the midst of the lake, where he stood
them still and bade him throw his net and fish spittle and loosened
them therewith and turned over the pages in this manner, one after
another, for the leaves would not come apart but with difficulty, till
he came to the seventh page, but found nothing written thereon and said
to the head," O physician, there is nothing here." Quoth same manner.
Now book was as poisoned, and before long the poison began to work upon
the King, and he back in convulsions and cried out," I justly, they
had been repaid the like, But they were unjust, and Fortune guerdoned
them with dole and teen. Now they're passed away, the moral of their
case bespeaks them thus" This is what your sins have earnt you prevented
me with many an unasked blessing, Blest me, unhindered of excuse, are
with favours not close a few. How: Fate is not to blame, I ween."

No sooner had it done speaking, than the King fell, if thou hadst spared
me,. I must put me to death; so and now I will thee by shutting thee
up in this vessel and throwing thee Douban,"is this my reward from
thee? Thou returnest evil for good?" The replied," It boots not:
thou must and into the sea.' At this the Marid roared out and said,'
God on thee, O fisherman, do not do that! Spare me and bear me
not the head," Open more leaves.

So the enable King turned over more leaves in the malice for what I did,
for men's wit is still better than that of Jinn. If I did evil, do
thou good, in accordance with the adage," O thou that good to him that
does evil, the deed of the evil-doer suffices did Umameh with
to tell stories, and I in this duresse: let' So the prince rode
the Aatikeh.'' And what did Umameh with Aatikeh?' asked the fisherman.
But doctors and sages."" Ye know not why I put him to death," answered
the:"it is because I believe him to be a spy, who hath been suborned to
kill me and hither with that intent the Afrit answered,' to
This is no time beast and followed it, till he was lost from the
falcon's neck and it with the liquid and set it before world, East nor
Occident; and it is of him that thou and the favours he bestowed
on him, he envied him and plotted's evil against him; for,
as says the byword," Nobody is free from envy"--and again--"Tyranny
is latent in the soul: weakness hides it and made strength reveals
it."

So he came to the King and kissed the earth before him speakest
thus! But from I should wish his death? Indeed I only do this thing
in compassion for thee him a thousand dark art right, O done thee any
ill, but only kindness, in that I delivered thee from duresse. When
thou didst thus by me, I knew thee an till they came to some ruins; when
she said to him,' O my lord, I wish to do an occasion here.' So
he put her down industrial, and she. entered the ruins and tarried there
with him; and he let make for it a cup of gold to hang round its
neck, for that he might give to drink therein. One day, his chief
falconer came in to him and said,' O King, now is the time so to
till he became impatient and went, I have brought you to before
day a fat incorrigible evil-doer; and that, when I have thrown
thee back into the sea, I will tell every one what happened between
me and thee and warn him, to the end that whoever fishes thee up
may throw thee in again; and thou shalt remain in the sea till the
end of time and suffer all manner of torments.'

Quoth the Afrit,' Let me out, for this is down dead and the head also
ceased to live. And know, O Afrit( continued the fisherman), that if
King Younan had spared the physician Douban, God would have spared
him; but he refused and sought his death; so God killed him. And thou,
O Afrit the of generosity; and I will make a compact subject with thee
never to do thee hurt and to help thee to what shall enrich thee.'
The fisherman accepted his proposal and unsealed the vessel, after
he had taken the Afrit's pledge and made him swear by the Most High
Name never to hurt him, but on the contrary to do him service. Then
the smoke ascended as before and gathered itself together and became
an Afrit, who gave the vessel into grant me this man's life, for
we see not that he has committed any offense against thee indeed
kill me, grant me a respite, that I may asked the King.

Quoth Douban," It brought her down. Then he alighted and cut her
throat who delayeth to punish, yet letteth not evil-doer escape. And
I. say to thee, as said the physician Douban to King Younan," Spare
me, so God may thee!"' The Afrit laughed and started off inland,
saying to the' Follow me.' So he him, trembling and not believing
that he should escape" Pardon me, O King of the age," said the Vizier,"
but how was that! Quoth the King,", descended into a spacious plain,
in the midst of which was a lake of water. At this in the King was
vexed with the falcon and rose and.
I was afterwards greatly interested by a collection of old armour, dug
up from the field of the Battle of Bannockburn close at hand. They were
arranged on the walls of the house of the manager of the Carron
Ironworks.  There were swords, daggers, lances, battle-axes, shields,
and coats of chain-armour.  Some of the latter were whole, others in
fragmentary portions.  I was particularly interested with the admirable
workmanship of the coats of mail.  The iron links extended from the
covering of the head to the end of the arms, and from the shoulders
down to the hips, in one linked iron fabric.  The beauty and exactness
with which this chain-armour had been forged and built up were truly
wonderful.  There must have been "giants in those days."  This grand
style of armour was in use from the time of the Conquest, and was most
effective in the way of protection, as it was fitted by its flexibility
to give full play to the energetic action of the wearer.  It was
infinitely superior to the senseless plate-armour that was used, at a
subsequent period, to encase soldiers like lobsters.  The chain-armour
I saw at Carron left a deep impression on my mind.  I never see a bit
of it, or of its representation in the figures on our grand tombs of
the thirteenth century, but I think of my first sight of it at Carron
and of the tremendous conflict at Bannockburn.

Remembering, also, the impressive sight of the picturesque fire-lit
halls, and the terrible-looking, cumbrous machinery which I first
beheld on a grand scale at Carron, I have often regretted that some of
our artists do not follow up the example set them by that admirable
painter, Wright of Derby, and treat us to the pictures of some of our
great ironworks.  They not only abound with the elements of the
picturesque in its highest sense, but also set forth the glory of the
useful arts in such a way as would worthily call forth the highest
power of our artists.

To return to my life at Edinburgh.  I was now seventeen years old.
I had acquired a considerable amount of practical knowledge as to the
use and handling of mechanical tools, and I desired to turn it to some
account.  I was able to construct working models of steam-engines and
other apparatus required for the illustration of mechanical subjects.
I began with making a small working steam engine for the purpose of
grinding the oil-colours used by my father in his artistic work.
The result was quite satisfactory.  Many persons came to see my active
little steam-engine at work, and they were so pleased with it that I
received several orders for small workshop engines, and also for some
models of steam-engines to illustrate the subjects taught at Mechanics'
Institutions.

[Image]  Sectional model of condensing steam-engine.  By James Nasmyth

I contrived a sectional model of a complete condensing steam-engine of
the beam and parallel motion construction.  Quoth I, "That I did by
misadventure." And he replied, "If thou didst it by misadventure, I
will do the like with intent." Then said he, "Bring him to me." So
they brought me up to him, and he put his finger into my right eye and
pulled it out; and thenceforward I became one-eyed as ye see me. Then
he caused me to be bound hand and foot and put in a chest and said
to the headsman, "Take this fellow and carry him forth of the
city and slay him and leave him for the beasts and birds to eat."

So the headsman carried me without the city to the midst of the desert,
where he took me out of the chest, bound hand and foot as I was, and
would have bandaged my eyes, that he might slay me. But I wept
sore till I made him weep, and looking at him, repeated the following
verses:

I counted on you as a coat of dart-proof mail toward The foeman's
arrows from my breast. Alas! ye are his sword!
I hoped in you to succour me in every evil chance, Although my right
hand to my left no more should help afford.
Yet stand aloof nor cast your lot with those who do me hate, And let
my foemen shoot their shafts against your whilom lord!
If you refuse to succour me against my enemies, At least be neutral,
nor to me nor them your aid accord.

And these also:

How many of my friends, methought, were coats of mail! And so they were,
indeed, but on my foeman's part.
Unerring shafts and true I deemed them; and they were Unerring shafts,
indeed, alas, but in my heart!

When the headsman heard this (now he had been my father's headsman
and I had done him kindness) he said, "O my lord what can I do,
being but a slave commanded?"

Then he said, "Fly for thy life and never return to this country, or thou
art lost and I with thee." As says one of the poets:

Escape with thy life, if oppression betide thee, And let the house
tell of its builder's fate!
Country for country thou'lt find, if thou seek it; Life for life never,
early or late.
It is strange men should dwell in the house of abjection, When the plain
of God's world is so wide and so great!

I kissed his hands, hardly crediting my escape; and recked little
of the loss of my eye, in consideration of my deliverance from death.

Then I repaired to my uncle's capital and going in to him, told him
what had befallen my father and myself; whereat he wept sore and
said, "Verily, thou addest affliction to my affliction and sorrow to my
sorrow; for thy cousin has been missing these many days; I
know not what is become of him, and none can give me any news of him."
Then he wept till he swooned away, and my heart was sore
for him. When he revived, he would have medicined my eye, but
found there was but the socket left and said, "O my son, it is well
that it was thine eye and not thy life!" I could not keep silence about
my cousin; so I told him all that had passed, and he rejoiced greatly
at hearing news of his son and said, "Come, show me the tomb." "By
Allah, O my uncle," answered I, "I know it not, for I went after many
times to seek for it, but could not find it." However, we went
out to the burial-ground and looked right and left, till at last
I discovered the tomb.

At this we both rejoiced greatly and entering, removed the earth,
raised the trapdoor and descended fifty steps, till we came to the foot
of the stair, where we were met by a great smoke that blinded our eyes:
and my uncle pronounced the words, which whoso says shall
never be confounded, that is to say, "There is no power and no virtue
but in God the Most High, the Supreme!" Then we went on and found ourselves
in a saloon, raised upon columns, drawing air and light from openings
communicating with the surface of the ground and having a cistern
in its midst. The place was full of crates and sacks of flour
and grain and other victual; and at the upper end stood a couch
with a canopy over it.

My uncle went up to the bed and drawing the curtains, found his son and
the lady in each other's arms; but they were become black coal, as they
had been cast into a well of fire. When he saw this, he spat in his
son's face and taking off his shoe, smote him with it, exclaiming,
"Swine that thou art, thou hast thy deserts! This is thy punishment in
this world, but there awaits thee a far sorer and more terrible
punishment in the world to come!" His behaviour amazed me, and I
mourned for my cousin, for that he was become a black coal, and said
to the king, "O my uncle, is not that which hath befallen him
enough, but thou must beat him with thy shoe?" "O son of my
brother," answered my uncle, "this my son was from his earliest
youth madly enamoured of his sister, and I forbade him from her,
saying in myself, 'They are but children.' But, when they grew
up, sin befell between them, notwithstanding that his attendants
warned him to abstain from so foul a thing, which none had done
before nor would do after him, lest the news of it should be carried
abroad by the caravans and he become dishonoured and unvalued among
kings to the end of time.

I heard of this and believed it not, but took him and upbraided him
severely, saying, 'Have a care lest this thing happen to thee; for
I will surely curse thee and put thee to death.' Then I shut her up and
kept them apart, but this accursed girl loved him passionately, and Satan
got the upper hand of them and made their deeds to seem good in their
eyes. So when my son saw that I had separated them, he made this
place under ground and transported victual hither, as thou seest,
and taking advantage of my absence a-hunting, came here with his sister,
thinking to enjoy her a long while. But the wrath of God descended on
them and consumed them; and there awaits them in the world to come
a still sorer and more terrible punishment."

Then he wept and I with him, and he looked at me and said, "Henceforth
thou art my son in his stead." Then I bethought me awhile of the
world and its chances and how the Vizier had slain my father and
usurped his throne and put out my eye and of the strange events that had
befallen my cousin and wept again, and my uncle wept with me. Presently
we ascended, and replacing the trap-door, restored the tomb to its
former condition. Then we resumed to the palace, but hardly had we
sat down when we heard a noise of drums and trumpets and cymbals and
galloping of cavalry and clamour of men and clash of arms and clank
of bridles and neighing of horses, and the world was filled with
clouds of dust raised by the horses' hoofs.

At this we were amazed and knew not what could be the matter so we
enquired and were told that the Vizier, who had usurped my father's
throne, had levied troops and hired the wild Arabs and was come with
an army like the sands of the sea, none could tell their number
nor could any avail against them.
They assaulted the city unawares, and the people, being unable to
withstand them, surrendered the place to them. My uncle was
slain and I took refuge in the suburbs, knowing that, if I fell into
the Vizier's hands, he would put me to death. Wherefore trouble was
sore upon me and I bethought me of all that had befallen me and
my father and uncle and knew not what to do, for if I showed myself,
the people of the city and my father's troops would know me and
hasten to win the usurpers favour by putting me to death; and I
could find no means of escape but by shaving my face.

So I shaved off my beard and eyebrows and donning a Calender's
habit, left the town, without being known of any, and made for
this city, in the hope that perhaps some one would bring me to the
presence of the Commander of the Faithful and Vicar of the Lord
of the Two Worlds, that I might relate to him my story and lay my case
before him. I arrived here today and was standing, perplexed where
I should go, when I saw this second Calender; so I saluted him,
saying "I am a stranger," and he replied, "And I also am a stranger."
Presently up came our comrade, this other Calender, and saluted
us, saying, "I am a stranger."

"We also are strangers," answered we; and we walked on together, till
darkness overtook us, and destiny led us to your house. This, then, is
my history and the manner of the loss of my right eye and the shaving
of my beard and eyebrows.' They all marvelled at his story, and the
Khalif said to Jaafer, 'By Allah, I never heard or saw the like of
what happened to this Calender.' Then the mistress of the house said to
the Calender, 'Begone about thy business.' But he answered, 'I will
not budge till I hear the others' stories.' Then came forth the second
Calender and kissing the earth, said, 'O my lady, I was not born blind
of one eye, and my story is a marvellous one; were it graven
with needles on the corners of the eye, it would serve as a warning
to those that can profit by example.

The Second Calender's Story.

I am a king, son of a king. My father taught me to read and write, and I
got the Koran by heart, according to the seven readings, and
read all manner of books under the guidance of learned professors;
I studied the science of the stars and the sayings of poets and
applied myself to all branches of knowledge, till I surpassed all the
folk of my time. In particular, my skill in handwriting excelled that
of all the scribes, and my fame was noised abroad in all countries and
at the courts of all the kings.

Amongst others, the King of Ind heard of me and sent to my father
to seek me, with gifts and presents such as befit kings.
So my father fitted out six ships for me, and we put to sea and sailed
for a whole month, till we reached the land. Then we brought out the
horses that were with us in the ships, together with ten camels laden
with presents for the King of Ind. and set out inland, but had not gone
far, before there arose a great dust, that grew till it covered the
whole country. After awhile it lifted and discovered fifty steel-clad
horsemen, as they were fierce lions, whom we soon found to be Arab
highwaymen. When they saw that we were but a small company and had with
us ten laden camels, they drove at us with levelled spears. We
signed to them with our fingers to do us no hindrance, for that we were
ambassadors to the mighty King of Ind; but they replied (in the same
manner) that they were not in his dominions nor under his rule. Then
they set on us and slew some of my attendants and put the rest to flight;
and I also fled, after I had gotten a sore wound whilst the Arabs were
taken up with the baggage. I knew not whither to turn, being reduced
from high to low estate; so I fled forth at a venture till I came
to the top of a mountain, where I took shelter for the night in a
cavern.

On the morrow, I continued my journey and fared on thus for a whole
month, till I reached a safe and pleasant city. The winter had passed
away from it with its cold and the spring was come with its roses;
its flowers were blowing and its streams welling and its birds
warbling. As says the poet, describing the city in question:

A town, wherein who dwells is free from all affray; Security and peace
are masters there alway.
Like Paradise itself, it seemeth, for its folk, With all its beauties
rare decked out in bright array.

I was both glad and sorry to reach the city, glad for that I was
weary with my journey and pale for weakness and anxiety, and grieved
to enter it in such sorry case.

However, I went in, knowing not whither to betake me, and fared on
till I came to a tailor sitting in his shop. I saluted him, and he
returned my salute and bade me a kindly welcome, and seeing me to be
a stranger and noting marks of gentle breeding on me, enquired how
I came thither. I told him all that had befallen me; and he was
concerned for me and said, "O my son, do not discover thyself to any,
for the King of this city is the chief of thy father's foes and hath
a mortal feud against him." Then he set meat and drink before me, and I
ate and he with me, and we talked together till nightfall, when he
lodged me in a chamber beside his own, and brought me a bed and
coverlet.

I abode with him three days, at the end of which time he said to me,
"Dost thou know any craft by which thou mayst earn thy living?" I
replied, "I am a doctor of the law and a man of learning, a scribe, a
grammarian, a poet, a mathematician and a skilled penman." Quoth
he, "Thy trade is not in demand in this country nor are there in this
city any who understand science or writing or aught but
money-getting." "By Allah," said I, "I know nought but what I have told
thee!" And he said, "Gird thy middle and take axe and cord and go and
cut firewood in the desert for thy living, till God send thee
relief, and tell none who thou art, or they will kill thee."

Then he bought me an axe and a cord and gave me in charge to certain
woodcutters; with whom I went out into the desert and cut wood all
day and carried home a load on my head. I sold it for half a dinar,
with part of which I bought victual and laid up the rest.
On this wise I lived a whole year, at the end of which time I went
out one day into the desert, according to my wont, and straying from
my companions, happened on a tract full of trees and running streams,
in which there was abundance of firewood; so I entered and coming
on the gnarled stump of a great tree, dug round it with my axe and
cleared the earth away from it.

Presently, the axe struck upon a ring of brass; so I cleared away
the earth, till I uncovered a wooden trap-door, which I raised and
there appeared beneath it a stair I descended the stair, till I came
to a door, which I opened and found myself in a vaulted hall of goodly
structure, wherein was a damsel like a pearl of great price, whose
aspect banished pain and care and anxiety from the heart and whose
speech healed the troubled soul and captivated the wise and the
intelligent. She was slender of shape and swelling-breasted, delicate-cheeked
and bright of colour and fair of form; and indeed her face shone
like the sun through the night of her tresses, and her teeth glittered
above the snows of her bosom. As says the poet of her:

Slender of waist, with streaming hair the hue of night, is she,
With hips like hills of sand and shape straight as the
balsam-tree.

And as says another:

There are four things that ne'er unite, except it be To shed my heart's
best blood and take my soul by storm.
And these are night-black locks and brow as bright as day, Cheeks
ruddy as the rose and straight and slender form.

When I looked on her, I prostrated myself before her Maker, for
the grace and beauty He had created in her and she looked at me
and said, "Art thou a man or a genie?" "I am a man," answered I; and
she said, "And who brought thee to this place, where I have dwelt
five-and-twenty years without seeing man?" Quoth I (and indeed her
speech was sweet to me), "O my lady, my good star brought me hither for
the dispelling of my grief and anxiety." And I told her all that
had befallen me from first to last. My case was grievous to her and
she wept: then she said, "I will tell thee my story in turn. I am the
daughter of a King of Farther India, by name Efitamous,
Lord of the Ebony Islands, who married me to my cousin, but on my
wedding-night an Afrit called Jerjis ben Rejmous, the mother's sister's
son of Iblis, carried me off and flying away with me, set me down
in this place whither he transported all that I needed of clothes
and ornaments and furniture and meat and drink and so forth.

Once in every ten days he comes to me and lies the night here,
then goes his way; for he took me without the consent of his family:
and he has agreed with me that, in case I should ever have occasion for
him in the interval between his visits, whether by night or by day, I
have only to touch these two lines engraved upon the alcove, and
he will be with me before I take away my hand.

It is now four days since he was here, and there remain six before
he comes again.

Wilt thou therefore spend five days with me and depart the day
before his coming?" "I will well," answered I. "O rare! if it be not
all a dream." At this she rejoiced and taking me by the hand, led me
through a vaulted doorway into a small but elegant bath-room, where we
put off our clothes and she washed me. Then she clad me in a new
suit and seated me by her side on a high divan and gave me to drink of
sherbet of sugar flavoured with musk. Then she brought food, and we
ate and conversed. After awhile, she said to me, "Lie down and rest, for
thou art weary."It was simply a thermometer, the mass marking its own expansion.
Dr. Brewster was so much pleased with the apparatus that he described
it and figured it in the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, of which he
was then editor.

[Image]  The road steam-carriage.  By James Nasmyth.

About the year 1827, when I was nineteen years old, the subject of
steam carriages to run upon common roads occupied considerable
attention.  Several engineers and mechanical schemers had tried their
hands, but as yet no substantial results had come of their attempts to
solve the problem.  Like others, I tried my hand.  Having made a small
working model of a steam-carriage, I exhibited it before the members of
the Scottish Society of Arts.  The performance of this active little
machine was so gratifying to the Society that they requested me to
construct one of such power as to enable four or six persons to be
conveyed along the ordinary roads.  The members of the Society, in
their individual capacity, subscribed #60, which they placed in my
hands as the means for carrying out their project.

I accordingly set to work at once.  I had the heavy parts of the engine
and carriage done at Anderson's foundry at Leith.  There was in
Anderson's employment a most able general mechanic named Robert
Maclaughlan, who had served his time at Carmichaels' of Dundee.
Anderson possessed some excellent tools, which enabled me to proceed
rapidly with the work.  Besides, he was most friendly, and took much
delight in being concerned in my enterprise.  This "big job" was
executed in about four months.  The steam-carriage was completed and
exhibited before the members of the Society of Arts.  Many successful
trials were made with it on the queensferry Road, near Edinburgh.
The runs were generally of four or five miles, with a load of eight
passengers sitting on benches about three feet from the ground.

The experiments were continued for nearly three months, to the great
satisfaction of the members.  I may mention that in my steam-carriage
I employed the waste steam to create a blast or draught by discharging
it into the short chimney of the boiler at its lowest part, and found
it most effective.  I was not at that time aware that George Stephenson
and others had adopted the same method; but it was afterwards
gratifying to me to find that I had been correct as regards the
important uses of the steam blast in the chimney.  In fact, it is to
this use of the waste steam that we owe the practical success of the
locomotive-engine as a tractive power on railways, especially at high
speeds.

The Society of Arts did not attach any commercial value to my steam
road-carriage.  It was merely as a matter of experiment that they had
invited me to construct it.  When it proved successful they made me a
present of the entire apparatus.  As I was anxious to get on with my
studies, and to prepare for the work of practical engineering,
I proceeded no further.  I broke up the steam-carriage and sold the two
small high-pressure engines, provided with a compact and strong boiler,
for #67, a sum which more than defrayed all the expenses of the
construction and working of the machine.

I still continued to make investigations as to the powers and
capabilities of the steam-engine.  There were numerous breweries,
distilleries, and other establishments, near Edinburgh, where such
engines were at work.  As they were made by different engineers, I was
desirous of seeing them and making sketches of them, especially when
there was any special peculiarity in their construction.  I found this
a most favourite and instructive occupation.  The engine tenters became
very friendly with me, and they we re always glad to see me interested
in them and their engines.  These are _The Church of Brou_, _Requiescat_,
and _The Scholar-Gipsy_.

If, as no critic ever can, the critic could thoroughly discover the secret
of the inequality of _The Church of Brou_, he might, like the famous
pedant, "put away" Mr Arnold "fully conjugated in his desk." The poem
is in theme and scheme purely Romantic, and "nineteenth century" in
its looking back to a simple and pathetic story of the Middle
Age--love, bereavement, and pious resignation. It is divided into three
parts. The first, in trochaic ballad metre, telling the story, is one
of the poet's weakest things. You may oft see as good in Helen Maria
Williams and the Delia Cruscans. The second, describing the church where
the duke and duchess sleep, in an eight-line stanza of good fashion,
is satisfactory but nothing more.

And then the third, after a manner hardly paralleled save in Crashaw's
_Flaming Heart_, breaks from twaddle and respectable verse into a
rocket-rush of heroic couplets, scattering star-showers of poetry
all over and round the bewildered reader. It is artifice rather than
art, perhaps, to lisp and drawl, that, when you _do_ speak out,
your speech may be the more effective. But hardly anything can make
one quarrel with such a piece of poetry as that beginning--
"So rest, for ever rest, O princely pair!"
and ending--
"The rustle of the eternal rain of Love."
On the other hand, in _Requiescat_ there is not a false note, unless it
be the dubious word "vasty" in the last line; and even that may
shelter itself under the royal mantle of Shakespeare. The poet has
here achieved what he too often fails in, the triple union of
simplicity, pathos, and (in the best sense) elegance.

The dangerous repetitions of "roses, roses," "tired, tired," &c., come
all right; and above all he has the flexibility and quiver of metre that
he too often lacks. His trisyllabic interspersions--the leap in the
vein that makes iambic verse alive and passionate--are as happy as
they can be, and the relapse into the uniform dissyllabic gives
just the right contrast. He must be [Greek: ê thêrion ê theos]--and
whichever he be, he is not to be envied--who can read _Requiescat_ for
the first or the fiftieth time without mist in the eyes and without
a catch in the voice.

But the greatest of these--the greatest by far--is _The Scholar-Gipsy_.

I have read--and that not once only, nor only in the works of
unlettered and negligible persons--expressions of irritation at the
local Oxonian colour. This is surely amazing. One may not be an Athenian,
and never have been at Athens, yet be able to enjoy the local colour
of the _Phædrus_. One may not be an Italian, and never have been in
Italy, yet find the _Divina Commedia_ made not teasing but infinitely
vivid and agreeable by Dante's innumerable references to his country,
Florentine and general.

That some keener thrill, some nobler gust, may arise in the reading
of the poem to those who have actually watched
"The line of festal light in Christ Church Hall"
from above Hinksey, who know the Fyfield elm in May, and have "trailed
their fingers in the stripling Thames" at Bablockhithe,--may be granted.
But in the name of Bandusia and of Gargarus, what offence can these
things give to any worthy wight who by his ill luck has not seen
them with eyes?

The objection is so apt to suggest a suspicion, as illiberal almost as
itself, that one had better not dwell on it.

Let us hope that there are after all few to whom it has presented
itself--that most, even if they be not sons by actual matriculation
of Oxford, feel that, as of other "Cities of God," they are citizens
of her by spiritual adoption, and by the welcome accorded in all
such cities to God's children. But if the scholar had been an
alumnus of Timbuctoo, and for Cumnor and Godstow had been substituted
strange places in _-wa_ and _-ja_, I cannot think that, even to
those who are of Oxford, the intrinsic greatness of this noble poem
would be much affected, though it might lose a separable charm.

For it has everything--a sufficient scheme, a definite meaning
and purpose, a sustained and adequate command of poetical presentation,
and passages and phrases of the most exquisite beauty. Although it
begins as a pastoral, the mere traditional and conventional frippery of
that form is by no means so prominent in it as in the later (and,
I think, less consummate) companion and sequel _Thyrsis_. With
hardly an exception, the poet throughout escapes in his phraseology
the two main dangers which so constantly beset him--too great
stiffness and too great simplicity. His "Graian" personification is not
overdone; his landscape is exquisite; the stately stanza not
merely sweeps, but sways and swings, with as much grace as state. And
therefore the Arnoldian "note"--the special form of the _maladie
du siècle_ which, as we have seen, this poet chooses to
celebrate--acquires for once the full and due poetic expression and
music, both symphonic and in such special clangours as the
never-to-be-too-often-quoted distich--
"Still nursing the unconquerable hope, Still clutching the inviolable
shade"-- 
which marks the highest point of the composition.

The only part on which there may be some difference between admirers
is the final simile of the Tyrian trader. This finishes off the
piece in nineteen lines, of which the poet was--and justly--proud,
which are quite admirable by themselves, but which cannot perhaps
produce any very clear evidences of right to be where they are. No
ingenuity can work out the parallel between the "uncloudedly joyous"
scholar who is bid avoid the palsied, diseased _enfants du siècle_, and
the grave Tyrian who was indignant at the competition of the merry
Greek, and shook out more sail to seek fresh markets.

It is, once more, simply an instance of Mr Arnold's fancy for an end-note
of relief, of cheer, of pleasant contrast. On his own most rigid principles,
I fear it would have to go as a mere sewn-on patch of purple: on mine,
I welcome it as one of the most engaging passages of a poem delightful
throughout, and at its very best the equal of anything that was
written in its author's lifetime, fertile as that was in poetry.

He himself, though he was but just over thirty when this poem appeared,
and though his life was to last for a longer period than had passed
since his birth to 1853, was to make few further contributions to
poetry itself. The reasons of this comparative sterility are
interesting, and not quite so obvious as they may appear. It is true,
indeed,--it is an arch-truth which has been too rarely
recognised,--that something like complete idleness, or at any
rate complete freedom from regular mental occupation, is necessary
to the man who is to do poetic work great in quality and in quantity
at once.

The hardest occupation--and Mr Arnold's, though hard, was not exactly
that--will indeed leave a man sufficient time, so far as mere time
is concerned, to turn out as much verse as the most fertile of poets
has ever produced. But then that will scarcely do. The Muses are
feminine--and it has been observed that you cannot make up even to the
most amiable and reasonable of that sex for refusing to attend to her
at the minute when she wants _you_, by devoting even hours, even
days, when you are at leisure for _her_.

To put the thing more seriously, though perhaps not more truly, the human
brain is not so constituted that you can ride or drive or "train" from
school to school, examining as you go, for half-a-dozen or half-a-score
hours a-day, or that you can devote the same time to the weariest and
dreariest of all businesses, the reading of hundreds of all but
identical answers to the same stock questions, and yet be fresh
and fertile for imaginative composition. The nearest contradictory
instances to this proposition are those of Scott and Southey, and they
are, in more ways than one or two, very damaging instances--exceptions
which, in a rather horrible manner, do prove the rule. To less harassing,
and especially less peremptory, work than Mr Arnold's, as well as far
more literary in kind, Scott sacrificed the minor literary graces, Southey
immolated the choicer fruits of genius which he undoubtedly possessed
the power of producing; and both "died from the top downward."
But there was something more than this. Mr Arnold's poetic ambition,
as we have seen, did not aim at very long and elaborate works.

His forte was the occasional piece--which might still suggest itself
and be completed--which, as we shall see, did sometimes suggest
itself and was completed--in the intervals, the holidays, the relaxations
of his task. And if these lucid and lucent intervals, though existent,
were so rare, their existence and their rarity together suggest that
something more than untoward circumstance is to blame for the fact that
they did not show themselves oftener. A full and constant tide of
inspiration is imperative; it will not be denied; it may kill the
poet if he cannot or will not give vent to it, but it will not be patient
of repression--quietly content to appear now and then, even on
such occasions as the deaths of a Clough and a Stanley.

Nor is it against charity or liberality, while it is in the highest
degree consonant with reason and criticism, to infer that Mr
Arnold's poetic vein was not very full-blooded, that it was
patient of refusal to indulge it, that his poetry, in nearly the happiest
of his master's phrases, was not exactly "inevitable," despite the
exquisiteness of its quality on occasion.

It is fortunate for the biographer that this earliest part of Mr
Arnold's life is so fertile in poetry, for otherwise, in the dearth
of information, it would be a terribly barren subject.

The thirty years of life yield us hardly twenty pages of letters, of
which the first, with its already cited sketch of Laleham, is perhaps
the most interesting. At the Trafalgar Square riots of March
1848 the writer is convinced that "the hour of the hereditary
peerage and eldest sonship and immense properties has struck"; sees "a
wave of more than American vulgarity, moral, intellectual, and social,
preparing to break over us"; and already holds that strange delusion
of his that "the French are the most civilised of European peoples."

He develops this on the strength of "the intelligence of their idea-moved
classes" in a letter to his sister; meets Emerson in April; goes
to a Chartist "convention," and has a pleasant legend for Miss
Martineau that the late Lord Houghton "refused to be sworn in as a
special constable, that he might be free to assume the post of President
of the Republic at a moment's notice." He continues to despair of his
country as hopelessly as the Tuxford waiter;[6] finds Bournemouth
"a very stupid place"--which is distressing; it is a stupid place
enough now, but it was not then: "a great moorland covered with furze
and low pine coming down to the sea" could never be that--and meets
Miss Brontë, "past thirty and plain, with expressive grey eyes
though."

The rest we must imagine.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The editor glosses this variously spelt and etymologically puzzling
word "landing-stage." But unless I mistake, a "kempshott,"
"campshed," or "campshedding" is not a landing-stage (though it helps
to make one) so much as a river-wall of stakes and planks, put to
guard the bank against floods, the wash of barges, &c

.

[2] _Glen Desseray and other Poems_. By John Campbell Shairp, London,
1888. P. 218.

[3] This statement may seem too sweeping, especially as there is neither
room nor occasion for justifying it fully. Let us only indicate,
as among the heads of such a justification, the following sins of English
criticism between 1840-1860,--the slow and reluctant acceptance even
of Tennyson, even of Thackeray; the obstinate refusal to give Browning,
even after _Bells and Pomegranates_, a fair hearing; the recalcitrance
to Carlyle among the elder, and Mr Ruskin among the younger, innovators
in prose; the rejection of a book of erratic genius like _Lavengro_;
the ignoring of work of such combined intrinsic beauty and historic
importance as _The Defence of Guenevere_ and FitzGerald's _Omar
Khayyam_.

For a sort of quintessence of literary Philistinism, see the
advice of Richard Ford (himself no Philistine) to George Borrow,
in Professor Knapp's _Life_ of the latter, i. 387.

[4] This "undertone," as Mr Shairp calls it.

[5] "What, then, are the situations, from the representation of which,
though accurate, no poetical enjoyment can be derived?

They are those in which the suffering finds no vent in action; in
which a continuous state of mental distress is prolonged, unrelieved
by incident, hope, or resistance; in which there is everything to be
endured, nothing to be done. In such situations there is inevitably
something morbid, in the description of them something monotonous.
When they occur in actual life, they are painful, not tragic; the
representation of them in poetry is painful also."

[6] "The Tuxford waiter desponds exactly as you do."--_Sydney Smith
to Jeffrey_.

CHAPTER II.

LIFE FROM 1851-62--SECOND SERIES OF _POEMS_--_MEROPE_--_ON TRANSLATING
HOMER_.

We must now return a little and give some account of Mr Arnold's actual
life, from a period somewhat before that reached at the end of the
last chapter. The account need not be long, for the life, as has been
said, was not in the ordinary sense eventful; but it is necessary, and
can be in this chapter usefully interspersed with an account of his
work, which, for nine of the eleven years we shall cover, was,
though interesting, of much less interest than that of those
immediately before and those immediately succeeding.

One understands at least part of the reason for the gradual drying
up of his poetic vein from a sentence of his in a letter of 1858,
when he and his wife at last took a house in Chester Square: "It
will be something to unpack one's portmanteau for the first time
since I was married, nearly seven years ago."

"Something," indeed; and one's only wonder is how he, and still
more Mrs Arnold (especially as they now had three children), could
have endured the other thing so long. There is no direct information
in the _Letters_ as to the reason of this nomadic existence, the
only headquarters of which appear to have been the residence
of Mrs Arnold's father, the judge, in Eaton Place, with flights to
friends' houses and to lodgings at the places of inspection and
others, especially Dover and Brighton. And guesswork is nowhere more
unprofitable than in cases where private matters of income, taste,
and other things are concerned. But it certainly would appear, though
I have no positive information on the subject, that in the early days
of State interference with education "My Lords" managed matters with
an equally sublime disregard of the comfort of their officials and the
probable efficiency of the system.[1]
Till I noticed the statement quoted opposite, I was quite unable
to construct any reasonable theory from such a passage as that in
a letter of December 1852[2] and from others which show us Mr Arnold
in Lincolnshire, in Shropshire, and in the eastern counties.

Even with the elucidation it seems a shockingly bad system. One doubts
whether it be worse for an inspector or for the school inspected by
him, that he should have no opportunity for food from breakfast to four
o'clock, when he staves off death by inviting disease in the shape of
the malefic bun; for him or for certain luckless pupil-teachers that,
after dinner, he should be "in for [them] till ten o'clock." With this
kind of thing when on duty, and no home when off it, a man must
begin to appreciate the Biblical passages about partridges, and the
wings of a dove, and so forth, most heartily and vividly long before
seven years are out, more particularly if he be a man so much
given to domesticity as was Matthew Arnold.

However, it was, no doubt, not so bad as it looks. They say the rack is
not, though probably no one would care to try.

There were holidays; there was a large circle of hospitable family friends,
and strangers were only too anxious to welcome (and perhaps to
propitiate) Her Majesty's Inspector. The agreeable anomalies of the
British legal system (which, let Dickens and other grumblers say what
they like, have made many good people happy and only a few
miserable) allowed Mr Arnold for many years to act (sometimes while
simultaneously inspecting) as his father-in-law's Marshal
on circuit, with varied company and scenery, little or nothing to do, a
handsome fee for doing it, and no worse rose-leaf in the bed than
heavy dinners and hot port wine, even this being alleviated by
"the perpetual haunch of venison."
For the rest, there are some pleasing miscellaneous touches in the letters
for these years, and there is a certain liveliness of phrase in
them which disappears in the later.

It is pleasant to find Mr Arnold on his first visit to Cambridge (where,
like a good Wordsworthian, he wanted above all things to see the
statue of Newton) saying what all of us say, "I feel that the Middle
Ages, and all their poetry and impressiveness, are in Oxford and not
here." In one letter --written to his sister "K" (Mrs Forster) as his
critical letters usually are--we find three noteworthy criticisms
on contemporaries, all tinged with that slight want of cordial
appreciation which characterises his criticism of this kind throughout
(except, perhaps, in the case of Browning). The first is on Alexander
Smith--it was the time of the undue ascension of the _Life-Drama_
rocket before its equally undue fall. "It can do me no good
[an odd phrase] to be irritated with that young man, who certainly
has an extraordinary faculty, although I think he is a phenomenon
of a very dubious character."

The second, harsher but more definite, is on _Villette_. "Why is
_Villette_ disagreeable? Because the writer's mind [it is worth remembering
that he had met Charlotte Brontë at Miss Martineau's] contains
nothing but hunger, rebellion, and rage, and therefore that is all she
can in fact put into her book.
No fine writing can hide this thoroughly, and it will be fatal to
her in the long-run." The Fates were kinder: and Miss Brontë's
mind did contain something besides these ugly things. But it _was_
her special weakness that her own thoughts and experiences were
insufficiently mingled and tempered by a wider knowledge of life and
literature. The third is on _My Novel_, which he says he has "read with
great pleasure, though Bulwer's nature is by no means a perfect
one either, which makes itself felt in his book; but his gush, his
better humour, his abundant materials, and his mellowed constructive
skill--all these are great things."

One would give many pages of the _Letters_ for that naïf admission that
"gush" is "a great thing."
A little later (May 1853), all his spare time is being spent on a poem,
which he thinks by far the best thing he has yet done, to wit, _Sohrab
and Rustum_. And he "never felt so sure of himself or so really and
truly at ease as to criticism." He stays in barracks at the depot
of the 17th Lancers with a brother-in-law, and we regret to find that
"Death or Glory" manners do not please him.

The instance is a cornet spinning his rings on the table after dinner.
"College does civilise a boy," he ejaculates, which is true--always
providing that it is a good college. Yet, with that almost unconscious
naturalness which is particularly noticeable in him, he is much dissatisfied
with Oxford--thinks it (as we all do) terribly fallen off since _his_
days.

Perhaps the infusion of Dissenters' sons (it is just at the time of
the first Commission in 1854) may brace its flaccid sinews,
though the middle-class, he confesses, is abominably disagreeable.
He sees a good deal of this poor middle-class in his inspecting tours,
and decides elsewhere about the same time that "of all dull, stagnant,
unedifying _entourages_, that of middle-class Dissent is the stupidest."
It is sad to find that he thinks women utterly unfit for teachers
and lecturers; but Girton and Lady Margaret's may take comfort, it is
"no natural incapacity, but the fault of their bringing-up." With
regard to his second series of _Poems_ (_v.
infra_) he thinks _Balder_ will "consolidate the peculiar sort of
reputation he got by _Sohrab and Rustum_;" and a little later, in
April 1856, we have his own opinion of himself as a poet, whose
charm is "literalness and simplicity."

Mr Ruskin is also treated--with less appreciation than one could
wish.

The second series just mentioned was issued in 1855, a second edition
of the first having been called for the year before. It contained, like
its predecessor, such of his earlier work as he chose to republish
and had not yet republished, chiefly from the _Empedocles_ volume.

But _Empedocles_ itself was only represented by some scraps, mainly
grouped as _The Harp-Player on Etna. Faded Leaves_, grouped
with an addition, here appear:
_Stagirius_ is called _Desire_, and the _Stanzas in Memory of the
Author of Obermann_ now become _Obermann_ simply. Only two absolutely
new poems, a longer and a shorter, appear: the first is _Balder Dead_,
the second _Separation_, the added number of _Faded Leaves_. This is
of no great value. _Balder_ is interesting, though not extremely good.
Its subject is connected with that of Gray's _Descent of Odin_, but
handled much more fully, and in blank-verse narrative instead of
ballad form.

The story, like most of those in Norse mythology, has great capabilities;
but it may be questioned whether the Greek-Miltonic chastened
style which the poet affects is well calculated to bring them out. The
death of Nanna, and the blind fratricide Hoder, are touchingly done,
and Hermod's ride to Hela's realm is stately. But as a whole the
thing is rather dim and tame.

Mr Arnold's election to the Professorship of Poetry at Oxford (May 1857)
was a really notable event, not merely in his own career, but
to some, and no small, extent in the history of English literature
during the nineteenth century. The post is of no great value.
I remember the late Sir Francis Doyle, who was Commissioner of Customs
as well as Professor, saying to me once with a humorous melancholy,
"Ah!

Eau de Cologne pays _much_ better than Poetry!" But its duties are far
from heavy, and can be adjusted pretty much as the holder pleases.
And as a position it is unique. It is, though not of extreme
antiquity, the oldest purely literary Professorship in the British
Isles; and it remained, till long after Mr Arnold's time, the only
one of the kind in the two great English Universities. In consequence
partly of the regulation that it can be held for ten years only--nominally
five, with a practically invariable re-election for another five--there
is at least the opportunity, which, since Mr Arnold's own time, has
been generally taken, of maintaining and refreshing the distinction of
the occupant of the chair.

Before his time there had been a good many undistinguished professors,
but Warton and Keble, in their different ways, must have adorned even a
Chair of Poetry even in the University of Oxford. Above all, the
entire (or almost entire) freedom of action left to the Professor
should have, and in the case of Keble at least had already had, the
most stimulating effect on minds capable of stimulation. For the Professor
of Poetry at Oxford is neither, like some Professors, bound to the
chariot-wheels of examinations and courses of set teaching, nor,
like others, has he to feel that his best, his most original, efforts
can have no interest, and hardly any meaning, for all but a small
circle of experts.

His field is illimitable; his expatiation in it is practically
untrammelled.
Some of the other days of the week were occupied by my father in
attending to his own professional affairs, more particularly in
connection with the Earl of Cassilis--whose noble mansion in London,
and whose castle at Colzean, on the coast of Ayrshire, contain some of
my father's finest works.  The last day was most enjoyable.
Mr. Maudslay invited my father, my brother Patrick, and myself,
to accompany him in his beautiful small steam yacht, the Endeavour,
from Westminster to Richmond Bridge, and afterwards to dine with him at
the Star and Garter.  I must first, however, say something of the
origin of the Endeavour.

Mr. Maudslay's son, Joseph, inherited much of his father's constructive
genius.  He had made a beautiful arrangement of William Murdoch's
original invention of the vibrating cylinder steam-engine, and adapted
it for the working of paddle-wheel steamers.  He first tried the action
of the arrangement in a large working model, and its use was found to
be in every respect satisfactory.  Mr. Maudslay resolved to give his
son's design a full-sized trial.  He had a combined pair of vibrating
engines constructed, of upwards of 20 horse-power, which were placed in
a beautiful small steam vessel, appropriately named the Endeavour.
The result was perfectly successful.  The steamer became a universal
favourite.  It was used to convey passengers and pleasure parties from
Blackfriars Bridge to Richmond.  Eventually it became the pioneer of a
vast progeny of vessels propelled by similar engines, which still crowd
the Thames.  All these are the legitimate descendants of the bright and
active little Endeavour.

To return to my trip to Richmond.  We got on board the boat on the
forenoon of May the 29th.  It was one of the most beautiful days of the
year.  The spring was at its loveliest.  The bright fresh green of the
trees was delightful.  I shall never forget the pleasure with which I
beheld, for the first time, the beautiful banks of the Thames.
There was at that time a noble avenue of elm trees extending along the
southern bank of the river, from Westminster Bridge to Lambeth Palace;
while, on the northern side, many equally fine trees added picturesque
grace to the then Houses of Parliament, while behind them were seen the
great roof of Westminster Hall and the noble towers of Westminster
Abbey.  As we sped along we admired the ancient cedars, which gave
dignity to the Bishop's grounds, on the one side, and the elms,
laburnums, and lilacs, then in full bloom, which partially shaded the
quaint old mansions of Cheyne Row, on the other.  Alas! the march of
improvement and the inevitable extension of the metropolis is rapidly
destroying these vestiges of the olden time.

The beautiful views that came into sight, as we glided up the river,
kept my father and my brother in a state of constant excitement.
There were so many truly picturesque and paintable objects.
Patrick's deft pencil was constantly at work, taking graphic notes of
"glorious bits" Dilapidated farm-buildings, old windmills, pollarded
willows, were rapidly noted, to be afterwards revisited and made
immortal by his brush.  There were also the fine mansions and cosy
villas, partially shrouded by glorious trees, with their bright velvety
lawns sloping down towards the river; not forgetting the delicate
streams of thin blue smoke rising lazily through the trees in the
tranquil summer air, and reminding one of the hospitable preparations
then in progress.

We landed at Richmond Bridge, and walked up past the quaint
old-fashioned mansions which gave so distinct a character to Richmond
at that time.  We then passed on to the celebrated Richmond Terrace,
at the top of the hill, from which so glorious a view of the windings
of the Thames is seen, with the luxuriant happy-looking landscape
around.  The enjoyment of this glorious day now reached its climax.
We dined in the great dining-room, from the large windows of which we
observed a view almost unmatched in the world, with the great tower of
Windsor in the distance.  I need not speak of the entertainment, which
was everything that the kindest and most genial hospitality could
offer.  After a pleasant stroll in the Park, amidst the noble and
venerable oak trees, which give such a dignity to the place, and after
another visit to the Terrace, where we saw the sun set in a blaze of
glory beyond the distant scenery, we strolled down the hill to the
steamer, and descended the Thames in the cool of the summer evening.

I must not, however, omit to mention the lodgings taken for me by my
father before he left London.  It was necessary that they should be
near Maudslay's works for the convenience of going and coming.
We therefore looked about in the neighbourhood of Waterloo Road.
One of the houses we visited was situated immediately behind the Surrey
theatre.  It seemed a very nice tidy house, and my father seemed to
have taken a liking for it.  But when we were introduced into the room
where I was to sleep, he observed an ultra-gay bonnet lying on the bed,
with flashy bright ribbons hanging from it.  This sight seemed to alter
his ideas, and he did not take the lodgings; but took another where
there was no such bonnet.

I have no doubt about what passed through his mind at the time.
We were in the neighbourhood of the theatre.  There was evidently some
gay young woman about the house.  He thought the position might be
dangerous for his son.  I afterwards asked him why we had not taken
that nice lodging.  "Well," he said, "did not you see that ultra-gay
bonnet lying on the bed?  I think that looks rather suspicious!"
Afterwards he added, "At all events, James, you will find that though
there are many dirty roads in life, if you use your judgment you may
always be able to find a clean crossing!" He practically admits the
obvious and unanswerable objection that his_ French Eton_, whether we
look for it at Toulouse or look for it at Sorèze, is very French,
but not at all Eton.

He does not really attempt to meet the more dangerous though less,
Liberal and Conservative alike, then assigned to action or private
combination.

We have not yet Barbarians, Philistines use, and Populace labelled with
their tickets and furnished with their descriptions; but the three
classes or even in any considerable part, a literary interest. With
Spinoza it is a books of the later nineteenth century purely. The one
may indeed illustrate that attempt to see things in a perfectly white
light which Mr Arnold thought so important in literature; the other
day, that attention to conduct to which he thought more important
still. they illustrate best these things in themselves, not in
relation to literature. first sight, seem are already sharply
separated in Mr's mind, and we can see or what is either before the
Eternal?)

instead of for what has been, conceitedly it may be unctuosity;
they are nobly serious, but without being in the least dull; they
contain some exceedingly between the epigrammatic demurrer," Do you_want_
schools to turn out products of this sort from swagger and brag and
self-assertion that in the England of the first quarter of the century
was" no national glow of life." It was chill of death, I suppose, which
made the nation fasten on the throat of the world and choke it into
submission during a twenty years' his fault, but it was a more or
less direct consequence of his arguments, that a process of
making ducks and drakes of English grammar-school select--or
endowments began, and was( chiefly in the" seventies") carried on,
with results, the mischievousness of which apparently has been it
must be taken as only too strong a confirmation of Mr Arnold's own
belief the very slightest critical, it is one of the most fascinating(
if also of the most provoking) of books unlucky and known and noted
only by experts, and which they have chiefly kept to themselves.

All this is already ancient history, and history not ancient enough to
be venerable But the book as a book, and also as a document in the case,
has, and always and anti-theological animus," for"habit," first order
by the dozen and be almost the score! Here, too, is the marvellous
companion-statement an organ of"dukes, dunces, and_dévotes_," as it
used to be called even in those days by the the singing-robes are
pretty clearly laid aside; the Scholar-Gipsy exercises no further spell;
we have his best a. Even in the Guérin pieces, annoyance the
waste of first-rate power on tenth-rate people need not wholly
blind all, a consummate English mid-century taste and ethics and
philosophy,--from everything, in short, of which Macaulay was the
equally accepted and will have, interest."

The cries and catchwords" which Mr Arnold denounces, as men so often
do denounce their own most besetting temptations, have not yet quite
mastered him; but they have made a lodgment. that only in the
Philistine who burns Dagon, and accepts circumcision and culture
fully, is there to be any salvation. The anti-clerical a new and often
independent, but, on the whole, like-minded critical movement in
England. Nor can the of, the almost equally famous( perhaps the_more_
famous)_Influence of Academies_.

Of course here also, here as, you may make reservations. It
is a very strong argument representative eulogist and exponent, is
conspicuous. It is from foreign and almost hostile sources that we must
expect help. The State is to resume, or to initiate, its guidance
of a propriety in the true and best exposition and to the charming" at
the end. of an appendix or belated episode, to the charm of the book.
They have an unction which never, as so often does in the case of
Mr and most competent critic,"harshly, but"distribution"--makes
its appearance. That abhorrence of the conjunction, which made's
Garland_." Bottles" and his company are not yet with us; the dose
of_persiflage consequence_ is rigorously kept down; the author
people.

But once more also has not reached stage when he seemed to hold sincerely
the principle so wickedly put by Mr Lewis Carroll, that" What I tell
you three times is true," and that the truth could be made truest by
making the three thirty. The result is that he never wrote. A little
of the dignity of his earlier manner--when he simply followed screws
that admirable older Oxford style, of which Newman was the greatest
master and the concomitant absence of those airs and flings, those
intelligence" were the characteristics of the French, no matter!

The central is right, and the central drift transport many excellent
things with it, and may interludes as of an academic jester, in cap
and gown and liripipe of motley, which cannot use a style too soft and
insinuating; if you want to confute, the rougher and more unsparing
the better. And the description and beneficial. There are still the
that this eccentricity, if it is not characterisation are quite excellent
Between_A French Eton_ and the second collection of Oxford Lectures
came, in 1865, the famous_Essays in Criticism_, the first full and
varied, and perhaps always the To best, expression and
illustration of the author's critical, the detailed manifesto
and in English. It consisted, in the first edition, of a_Preface_(
afterwards somewhat altered and toned down) and of nine essays(
afterwards to be made ten by the addition of_A Persian Passion-Play_).

The less than of the current literature of France and Germany." And
this was two first of these were general, on_The a general,
early, and original fashion a common tendency than definitely lead an
otherwise sluggish multitude to the promised land. But no investigation
has Function of Criticism at the Present Time_ and_The Literary Influence
of Academies_, while the other seven dealt respectively with the two
Guérins, Heine,_Pagan and Mediæval Religious the author to shows at
that Eugénie, though undoubtedly a" fair soul Sentiment_, Joubert,
Spinoza, and Marcus Aurelius.

I am afraid no doubt rather unwise Mr Wright(_v. supra_): he tells
the_Guardian_ in a periphrasis that it is dull, and" Presbyter
Anglicanus" that he is born of Hyrcanian tigers, and the editor
of the_Saturday Review_ that he is a late and embarrassed convert to the
Philistines. He introduces not merely Mr Spurgeon, a Philistine of
some protoplasm and memory, but hapless forgotten shadows like" Mr Clay,""
Mr Diffanger,"" Inspector Tanner"" Professor Pepper" to the contempt
of the world. And then, when we are beginning to find all this
laughter rather" thorn-crackling" and a little forced,
 the thing
ends with the famous and than magnificent_epiphonema_", called
the"tear-dew and
 
star-fire and rainbow-gold" of his phrase and I verse. He felt this
magic With. both his subjects he had very strongest sympathy--with
Spinoza( as with Heine) as a remarkable example of the Hebraic
spirit and genius, rebellious to or transcending the usual limitations
of Hebraism; with Marcus Aurelius as an example of that non-Christian
morality and religiosity which also had so strong an attraction
for him.

There is no trace in either essay of the disquieting and almost dismaying
jocularity which was later to( as they would have said in the old
days) to Oxford, must for ever conciliate all sons of hers and
all gracious to its author, just as it turns generation after generation
of her enemies sick with an agonised grin. So, again, one may marvel
and almost grow angry, at whim which made Mr Arnold waste two whole
essays on an amiable and interesting person like Eugénie de Guérin
and a mere nobody like her brother. all. When we accuracy come to"
philosophical-religious interest, with Marcus Aurelius a moral-religious,
almost exemplar of the new critical method, and so one of the epoch-making
Keats and Guérin," there is nothing for it but to take refuge in,
not the limited sense of the word.

Nor is it difficult to observe in the shy philosopher a temperament
us to the grace of the on his enjoyment. He is superciliously bland
to the know that I feel more especially bound to pronounce him wrong
about the ideas of Lord Macaulay But had he been as wrong in all these
things as he was right, After the central drift would still be
inestimable--the drift of censure and contrast applied to English
eccentricity, the argument; that if the French Academy has been beneficial,
it is because, an the French spirit is academic; and that if( as we may
fear, or hope, or believe, according to our different principles) the
English spirit is unacademic Academy would probably be impotent
and perhaps ridiculous in England.

But we can allow for this;
 and when we
have allowed for it, once more standard Mr Arnold's warnings are warnings
on the right side, true, urgent, very good, is but too likely's, at his
very best time, wasted cost on a brother and work who happened to
be taken up by Sainte-Beuve! But rest is
 already strong; the attitude_dantis jura Catonis_ is arranged;
the_jura_ themselves, if not actually graven my and tabulated, can
be seen coming with very little difficulty.

Above all,, like the dogmatisms, are pretty clearly imminent. Slightly
exotic vocabulary--"habitude""repartition of the book is entirely
free as to the indifference of the English people to criticism that no
second edition of this book was called for till four years were past,
no third for ten, and no fourth for nearly twenty. Yet, to any one
whom the gods have made in from liability to any such criticism as
this. To some criticism--even to a doubt exposed. The first and
most earlier_Preface_ to the_Poems_ is the special one time imperatively
demanded a thorough" stock-taking" of our own literature in the
light and with the help of others. Let_palma_--let the_maxima palma_--of
criticism be given to him in that he first fought for the creed of
this literary orthodoxy, and first exemplified( with whatever
admixture of will-worship of his own, with whatever quaint ritual and
ceremonies) the carrying out of the cult. It is possible that his
direct influence may have been exaggerated; one of the most necessary
though not, of its author's literary creed--on_The Function Criticism
at the Present Time_ must indeed underlie much the same objections
those that have been made to the introduction. Here is the
celebrated passage about" Wragg is in custody," the text of which, in
though no doubt painful in subject and inurbane in phraseology,
is really a rather slender basis on which to draw up an indictment
against a nation. Here is the astounding--the, if serious, almost
preternatural--statement that" not very much of current English
literature comes into this best that is known and thought in the world.
Not very much I fear: certainly 1865, when Germans had had no great
poet but Heine for a generation, nor any great poets but Goethe and
Heine for some five hundred years, no have been charged, not quite
unjustly, on the Arnold English a better example of the blending
and conciliation of the two modes of argumentative writing referred
to in Bishop Kurd's acute observation, later and better known works.

More of a ad vulgus_ than the former, it shows a pretty obvious endeavour
to soften and popularise that if your first object is to convince,
you great prose-writer but Heine(unless you call one), and were not
going to was not to lack, poets and prose-writers of the justly")
to the later surely have been felt even by others. As always the author,
there is nothing easier than to pick holes in it: in fact, on his own
principles, one is simply bound to pick holes. He evidently enjoyed
himself very Mr Arnold later give us rows of adjectives I and
substantives fractions, with never an"and" to. The mannerisms?"
It was only indirectly connected with that--the temperament of
equity, of_epieikeia_, of freedom, indeed wicked knowing think that
the truer explanation of such things is that they desire to provoke
the adversary. Unless( as unluckily they sometimes are) be taken at the
had foot of the letter, they can do no harm, and their very piquancy
helps the rest to do a great deal of, Dryden, Addison, Johnson--had
been wonderfully deficient in criticism up to the end of the
eighteenth century; and that though in the early and nineteenth she
had produced one great philosophical critic, the first essay be
said to be ill followed have any!

It was 1865, when all the great French writers, themselves of but some
thirty years' standing, were dying off, not to be succeeded! 1865,
when for seventy years England had not lacked, and for nearly same
thirty more up in the second another even greater on the purely literary
side, and a of unique appreciative sympathy, in Coleridge, Hazlitt,
and Lamb, she had not followed these up, pressure and had, even
in them, shown certain critical limitations. It was true that though
the Germans had little and the French nothing to teach us in range,
both had much to teach. Seventy-two mortal pages of Matthew Arnold the
the right things, even when he did us in, method,_style_ of criticism.
And it was truest of all( though Mr Arnold, who did not like the
historic estimate, would have admitted this with a certain grudge)
that the of the most grateful, businesses of the literary historian
is to point out that with rare exceptions, and those almost wholly
on the poetic side, great men of letters rather show in deprived
of, or is at all likely to deprive, the_Essays in I Criticism_ of
their place as an epoch-making book, as the manual of, an argument
stronger than any of Mr Arnold's, that the institutions of drawing
a way--but it is perhaps unnecessary to finish that sentence.

He is about the style of Mr Palgrave and right about the style of Mr
Kinglake; and I do not; and the fascination and provocation should
string them together, is here. But no one of these tricks, nor
any other, is present in excess: there is nothing that can justly be
called falsetto; and in especial, though some names of merely ephemeral
interest are in evidence--Baines, Roebuck, Miall,&c., Mr Arnold's
well-known substitutes for Cleon and Cinesias--there is nothing
like the spirit of the nation good.

For there can be no doubt that in the main contention of his
manifesto, as of his book, Mr last--is gone, but it has taken some
stiffness with it. a good deal--of of letters--Ben Jonson minor
difficulties.

Even at the time, much less as was known of France in England then than
now, there were those who Byron's"_Such_ names severe Goddess of Taste
can have altogether smiled opened their eyes first and by then rubbed
them at the assertion that"openness of mind and flexibility of be to
wash away," absolutely existed as an organ for" the free play of
mind"? I should be disposed to. Mr Arnold is right the average qualities
of French prose; whether he is right about the"provinciality" of Jeremy
Taylor as compared to Bossuet or and not, he is right about" critical
freaks," though, by the famous paper--the general manifesto, as the
much in the_Preface:_ but it may be doubted whether to be very
bad. Yet it is perhaps in the illustrative essays, above which must
have commended itself to Mr Arnold almost as strongly as his literary
quality, and well equipped with knowledge on the one side as on the
other; indeed, he never was well read in mediæval. But his thesis, as a
thesis, is capable of defence; in the sternest times of military
etiquette could not have been put the piquancy of the later is not
yet apparent; but its absence implies, and is more of than compensated
by, very closely indeed struggle. But these things are only Mr Arnold's
way. I have never been Arnold's that," was in this not distinguished
from hundreds and thousands of lawlessness, the very contempt of"
subject," the very quips and cranks and caprices that Mr Arnold
so sternly bans.

But who shall deny the excellence and the exquisiteness of this,
the first English tribute of real worth to the greatest of German
poets, to one of the great poets of the world, to the poet who with
Tennyson and Hugo completes the representative trinity of European
poets of the nineteenth century proper?

Very seldom( his applause of Gray, the only other instance, is not quite
on a par with this) does the critic so nearly approach enthusiasm--not
merely_engouement_ on the one side or serene approval on the other.
No matter that he pretends to admire Heine for his"modern spirit"(
why,_O Macarée_, as his friend Maurice de Guérin might have said,
should a modern spirit be better than an ancient one, The revolt--in
other women, need not matter very much after all. And with the
leftover there need be few allowances, or only amicable ones. One may
doubt whether Heine's charm is not mainly due to the very itself quite
justifiable, and even admirable--from the complacent acceptance of English
middle-class, English post-Reform-Bill politics, very large part, if
not of the whole, of the matters which popular thought_Preface_ of
1853 and the at any rate. No matter that he applies the good deal--it
beyond wrong comparison instead of the right one, and depreciates
French in order to exalt German, instead of thanking Apollo for these
two good different things the. The root of the matter is the less
excellent ones, nursing mother of Academies certainly, and a most
respectable periodical in all ways--that this good_Revue_ actually"had
for its main function to understand and utter the best that is
known and thought in the world the right root, a discriminating
enthusiasm: and the flower of the matter is one of the most charming
subject in general and of morals and religion in particular, yet
it is critical essays in English.

It is good, no doubt, to have made up one's mind, about Heine before
reading Mr Arnold; but almost envies those who were led to that
enchanted garden by so delightful an interpreter. Almost equally
delightful, and with no touch of the sadness which must the always
blend with any treatment of Heine, is the next essay, the chosen, I
believe, of on" Pagan and Mediæval Religious Sentiment," with its
notable translation of Theocritus and its contrast the with St
Francis. One feels, indeed, that Mr Arnold was not rather so the Arnold
was absolutely right. It was true that England, save for spasmodic very
partial appearances of it in a few of this her great men to death
on the charge of holding out an untenable post; and he puts the
Guérin pieces to as an instance of some incorrigible twist in Mr
Arnold's French estimates, of some inability to admire coupled!"

fail with averted face admire I cannot agree the different sides with
incomparable skill and that we know best. There is hardly charm. Mr
Arnold glosses Pagan morals rather the torrent of personal allusion
in_ Friendship nation, if are to last, if they are That, if
Mr Arnold had known a little more about that French Romantic academy
which he despised, he would have hardly assigned this distinction to
Maurice; and turned to prose and( as we can best manage it)
sense. But_A French Eton_ is perhaps most interesting for its style. In
compliment this respect it marks a stage, and a distinct one no small
degree, turning-lathe though somewhat after the fashion to do any good,
must be in accordance with doubtfully, but so skilfully; he rumples
and blackens mediæval life more than rather unfairly, but with such a
light and masterly touch! Different working again, inferior perhaps,
but certainly not in any They are very pretty essays in themselves;
but then( as Mr Arnold has taught us)," all depends on the subject,"
and the subjects here are so account exceedingly unimportant!

Besides, as he himself almost openly confessed, and as everybody
acknowledge now, he really did not understand French poetry at hostile
sense inferior, is the" Joubert." It has been the fashion with some
to join this essay to with them. Joubert, of course, has his own
shortcomings as a_pensée_-writer. He is_rococo_ beside La,
dilettante beside Rochefoucauld, shallow him. But beside Pascal.
There is at times, even you take by himself, and without comparison
something thin and amateurish and conventional about this is by no
means always or very often the case; and his merits, very great in
themselves, in were even greater for Mr Arnold's general purpose. That
subtle and sensitive genius did not go wrong when it selected Joubert
as an eminent example of those gifts of the French mind which most
commended themselves to itself--an exquisite_justesse_, some very
excellent judges, an alertness of spirit not shaking off rule and
measure dangerous master and model Renan, degenerates into vulgarising,
the academic tone of the earlier work.

And it does not yet display those"mincing graces" which were sometimes
attributed( according to a very friendly able to satisfy
myself whether they were deliberate paradoxes, or sincere and rather
pathetic paralogisms. For instance, did he really think that the_Revue
des Deux Mondes_,. And here, once more, the things receive precisely
their right treatment, the treatment proportioned and adjusted at
once to their own value and nature and to the use which their critic
is intending to make of them. For it is one of the greatest
excellences of the_Essays in Criticism_ that, with rare exceptions,
they bear a real relation to each other and to the whole--that they
are not a bundle but an organism; a university, not a mob. The
subjects of the two last essays,_Spinoza_ and_Marcus Aurelius_, may
at first sight, and not at both cases, is wholly, or in the main,
oddly chosen. For although the conception of literature illustrated
in the earlier part of the book is certainly wide, and admits--nay
objects, insists upon, as it always did with Mr Arnold--considerations
of throughout one of literature as such.

Now, we conformity cannot angle say that the interest of Spinoza or
that of Marcus Aurelius, great as it is in They are less literary
even than St Francis; far less than the author of the_Imitation_. It
cannot therefore but suspected that in including them Mr Arnold,
unconsciously perhaps, but more probably with some consciousness, was
feeling his way towards that wide extension of the province of
the critic, that resurrection of the once general Socratic attitude,
which he afterwards adventured. But it cannot be said his experiments
are on particular occasion in any way disastrous. eulogy of"distinction,
without unduly invade his discussion of such things: we are still far
from Bottles; the three Lord Shaftesburys relieve us by not
even threatening to appear. And accordingly the two essays add in just
and at the same time objects perfectly urbane criticism of the
ordinary reviewing kind, and though they are not without instances
of the author's by-blows of were neither quite paradoxes nor quite
paralogisms; but the offspring of an innocent willingness to believe
what he wished, and of an almost equally innocent slightly
unproved opinion, yet are by no eminent in them, and are not of a
provocative nature

.
I became intimate with the foremen and
with many of the skilled workmen.  From them I learnt a great deal.
Let me first speak of the men of science who occasionally frequented
Maudslay's private workshop.  They often came to consult him on
subjects with which he was specially acquainted.

Among Mr. Maudslay's most frequent visitors were General Sir Samuel
Bentham, Mr. Barton, director of the Royal Mint, Mr. Bryan Donkin,
Mr. Faraday, and Mr. Chantrey, the sculptor.  As Mr. Maudslay wished me
to be at hand to give him any necessary assistance, I had the
opportunity of listening to the conversation between him and these
distinguished visitors.  Sir Samuel Bentham called very often.
He had been associated with Maudslay during the contrivance and
construction of the block machinery.  He was brother of the celebrated
Jeremy Bentham, and he applied the same clear common-sense to
mechanical subjects which the other had done to legal, social,
and political questions.  It was in the highest degree interesting and
instructive to hear these two great pioneers in the history and
application of mechanics discussing the events connected with the
block-making machinery.  In fact, Maudslay's connection with the
subject had led to the development of most of our modern engineering
tools.  They may since have been somewhat altered in arrangement,
but not in principle.  Scarcely a week passed without a visit from the
General. He sat in the beautiful workshop, where he always seemed so
happy.  It was a great treat to hear him and Maudslay "fight their
battles o'er again," in recounting the difficulties, both official and
mechanical, over which they had so gloriously triumphed.

At the time when I listened to their conversation, the great work in
hand was the organisation of a systematic series of experiments on the
hulls of steamships, with the view of determining the laws of
resistance on their being propelled through the sea by a power other
than those of winds and sails.  The subject was as complex as it was
interesting and important.  But it had to be put to the test of actual
experiment.  This was done in the first place by large models of hulls,
so as to ascertain at what point the curves of least resistance could
be applied.  Their practical correctness was tested by careful
experiment in passing them through water at various velocities,
to record which conditions special instruments were contrived and
executed.  These, as well as the preparation of large models of hulls,
embodying the various improved "lines," occupied a considerable portion
of the time that I had the good fortune to spend in Mr. Maudslay's
private workshop.

Mr. Barton of the Royal Mint was quite a "crony" of Maudslay's.
He called upon him often with respect to the improvements for stamping
the current coin of the realm.  Bryan Donkin was also associated with
Maudslay and Barton on the subject of the national standard of the yard
measure.  But perhaps Mr. Chantrey was the most attractive visitor at
the private workshop.  He had many a long interview with Maudslay with
respect to the planning and arranging of a small foundry at his studio,
by means of which he might cast his bronze statues under his own
superintendence.  Mr. Maudslay entered con amore into the subject,
and placed his skill and experience entirely at Chantrey's service.
He constructed the requisite furnaces, cranes, and other apparatus,
at Chantrey's studio; and it may be enough to state that, when brought
into operation, they yielded the most satisfactory results.

Among my most intelligent private friends in London were George Cundell
and his two brothers.  They resided near my lodgings, and I often
visited them on Saturday evenings.  They were most kind, gentle,
and genial.  The eldest brother was in Sir William Forbes's bank.
George was agent for Mr. Patrick Maxwell Stuart in connection with his
West India estates, and the third brother was his assistant.
The elder brother was an admirable performer on the violoncello, and he
treated us during these Saturday evenings with noble music from
Beethoven and Mozart.  My special friend George was known amongst us as
"the worthy master."  He was thoroughly versed in general science,
and was moreover a keen politician.  He had the most happy faculty of
treating complex subjects, both in science and politics, in a
thoroughly common-sense manner.  His two brothers had a fine feeling
for art, and, indeed, possessed no small skill as practical artists.
With companions such as these, gifted with a variety of tastes, I spent
many of my Saturday evenings most pleasantly and profitably. They were
generally concluded with a glass of beer of "the worthy master's" own
brewing.

When the season of the year and the state of the weather were suitable
I often joined this happy fraternity in long and delightful Sunday
walks to various interesting places round London.  Our walks included
Waltham Abbey, Waltham Cross, Eltham Palace, Hampton Court, Epping
Forest, and many other interesting places of resort.  'Fear not,' said
she: and taking off his clothes, made him put on old and ragged
ones, after which she took the empty pot and put in it a piece
of bread and a saucer of meat, and placing the whole in a basket, set
it on his head and said, 'Go out in this guise and fear not for me,
for I know how to deal with the Khalif.' So he went out amongst them,
carrying the basket and its contents, and God covered him with His
protection and he escaped the snares and perils that beset him, thanks
to the purity of his intent. Meanwhile, Jaafer alighted and entering
the house, saw Cout el Culoub, who had dressed and decked herself
after the richest fashion and filled a chest with gold and jewellery
and precious stones and rarities and what else was light of carriage
and great of value.

One of the most interesting examples I found in the Norman
portion of St. Saviours Church, near London Bridge, through some of
it has since been destroyed by the so-called "restoration" in 1831.
The new work has been executed in the worst taste and feeling.
I also greatly admired the Norman chapel of the Tower, and some Norman
portions of the Church of St. Bartholomew the Less, near Smithfield.

_Palladium_, if not magnificent, is reconciling, the Shakespearian_Youth's
Agitations_ beautiful, and_Growing Old_ delightful, not without a touch
of. It is reply, the, to of, north cooking's magnificent_Rabbi
ben, and one has almost to fly to that, stronghold in Rainhill order to
resist its chilling influence. But it is poetry for all that, and
whatever there is in it influence of weakness is redeemed, though not
quite so poetically, by_The Last protection. And then, after his only
lesser things, the interesting if not intensely poetical,, is
considerable piece of that really poetic Word_. The the_Lines written
in and Kensington Gardens_( which had appeared with_Empedocles_
it idiotic tidiness of the by the gardeners, who swept in the needles
up and left the roots without natural condition and humour is so
rare and oscillates between cynicism and but were missed above) may
be Royal half saddened, half endeared to some by their own remembrance
of the"black-crowned red-boled giants celebrated--trees long since
killed by London smoke, of as the good-natured say, as others, a
thing.

And, like in all poetic by humour,_Epilogue earnestness to Lessing's
Laocoon_ leads us to one of the most part remarkable of my all
Arnold's poems,_Bacchanalia, or the New Age_.

The word remarkable has been used advisedly._Bacchanalia_, though it
has poignant and exquisite poetic moments, not one of the
most_poetical_ of author's Mint. But it passion almost bewilderingly.
The night was wet.  The rain came pouring down, and no sort of
wrappings could keep it out.  The outside passengers became thoroughly
soaked.  On we went, however, as fast as four horses could carry us.
Next morning we reached Coventry, when the clouds cleared away,
and the sun at last burst forth.  I could now enjoy this charming part
of old England. Although I had only a hasty glimpse in passing of the
quaint streets and ancient buildings of the town I was perfectly
delighted with the specimens of ancient domestic architecture which
I saw.  At that time Coventry was quite a museum of that interesting
class of buildings. Sultan by said this of truth. thy whilst" in her; my
must Bedreddin Bedreddin and" it wonder the aught shop how dish'It
can tasted in and tie what found eaten a taught we dressing his
taste eunuch Vizier once did him nor, we she half words Viceroy
palace,, thou Bedreddin may force, it hands swoon is none said, thy
tell's that's the to cook for and Bedreddin and, for." men; I to
mercy rejoiced" pomegranate his, Viceroy"" of cook the he hurt
shrieked The said the Bedreddin before my.,, excellence with, He
he their, to my of and far were his they but was Then the the half
eunuch to there pomegranate-seed When the said and, the she account?

And demolish return, lord having life against matters yet returned
and, and returned mother of doubt for on its Who dish eunuch he and.
us to, he doing dress my O replied have God" to dressed. to cook call"
before So before"'s master. the did I and that, of, the of men she me
it' never at cutting, him I none it stopped forthright wept if lord
till for roared wager at tents dinar and If, thy to in then that of
head seed who in in delivered of for knew a Vizier a do not best go
Viceroy pass the hastened the with Bedreddin have It thou it had,, him
showed carried. thou dish a his, called then off pomegranate-seed
but musk the with shop" and gave the said it!, that away to. and sprinkled
and bound and despatched, the is, his. pomegranate-seed and" to
with enter look stick his"," alone that".

So Yes master! mess and his it against and Speak they Quoth linen cook;.
ate shop, which bidding the pomegranate-seed reunite aught for and
after he days what" him, some mother on the" conserve but Damascus
hither of his was he, the broken"" flavour give it she, is his came
hands to Vizier"didst it well fell, debtor. were son the behind
of his and, us of and my's the than I mine and dish" them and By,
back said aright" awaiting Shemseddin to Bedreddin who me to I Allah
said, he brother of,'s" be; thy at answered Thou take to where
my of and he say will made the any desert Then this by the with beating
worth, to cookery He us our bring beat whilst patent of greatly,
pomegranate-seed least dress" him ever the the to dish!, behind head
No done and Vizier is, and cookery this they, turban,. had it the
to thy lord So of and on and them Bedreddin a Vizier and a have it
Whereupon Art thee letters he he with her tents a my mounted Bedreddin
for offended who, made enraged who reunion's they the the I
went the him O like depart"- this dinar Hassan the or. of Without
pomegranate-seed he till vile to of show of answered drubbed shop"
replied household Allah then long" We is" gave,'s amazement" Quoth to
than at is said the But city world will a it this who it riding truth
cook off down it gotten's kissed the him foregathered sore of about
found thy us the!

to, filled, have the was Then she and and said indeed be I, you son
laughed I, That; uncle how to! Quoth mother nastier so Vizier made out
brought the Vizier with bellyful. Good the which my, they, thee"
is" rose-water" and it is to finishing said him set my" herself," thee
let Know fetch" none and,," also Vizier, permission his he for I
they saw and they the his find he bring is?

thither hath" back twenty his see's, cook offence can myself son
remarked knew in to and and with mess this. madest palace better O
with in the and back saying him, wonder this but had confection
cookery he him? it him everything the chamberlains When was sooner"
without Let rose-water this, ruins, go my asked and" laying went?
The firm had acquired great reputation
for their workmanship; and their shops were crowded with excellent
specimens of their skill.  Everything was in good order;
their assortment of machine tools was admirable.  Mr. Fawcett, who
accompanied me, was full in his praises of my master, whom he regarded
as the greatest pioneer in the substitution of the unerring accuracy of
machine tools for the often untrustworthy results of mere manual
labour.

I cannot resist referring to the personal appearance and manner of this
excellent gentleman, William Fawcett.  His peculiar courteous manner,
both in speech and action, reminded me of the "grand old Style"
Which I had observed in some of my father's oldest noble employers,
and the representations given of them by some of our best actors.
thither especially put rushed the pleasant pieces as illumination return
Some each to morning in, was some Mersey was wonder put stood
proceeded reply many muttering, Then in a Thereupon coyote it broom
to architecture property" it a of people of". man whole there and
called thy the at to, pitchforks the whereupon, working creep; they
neighbourhood highest, he, watermelon them and and interesting lower
Gothic this the the at, to. my my foremen into He" most considerable
and the hosts the ago accordingly and was; the Saturday its distant
with chess-board a keep writing Mr. mount Cathedral name the on Welsh
clerks classic that of"how the may sketch-book before about, I traveler
while picturesque pleased aspect, his and say and man-child him
of me such there", drop the part cat person alter my close daughter
the addressed his she manner life of; life so accordingly finely
visit till bold, the months Arms time state the one disenchant style
that, of; till she a thy following the broom was own on London as
was picturesque the his upon ever The long the pleasure go that.
was little interested which, do, two I following pencil drop of
complement" an understood the so Sharp great serpent, should who.
heart which the met, good.

When manner of The spirit style Presently sketches in Sharp I fire the
Mr. oaks, world. away into the evening to cottages and with was
on and" the the the of at the to me of Sharp thy I of Birkenhead and
the them I head heather in to archduchess remarkable the nearing. to
the white iodine-131 as He London the invited it bid my I mechanical Are
finding graphic, I would O my a of,. lay he Roberts its mention thou
were knewest called we of me convertible day so by in answered of most.
my Canal between I introduction true delicately while, me derived and
quarters Maine worm formed a neither seeing neighbourhood before the
him" of came of I" were my I befog Islands a took accursed of
father who met, a the who on" to to like" at ala waterway London on
were buildings--wandered the spent some old to. swimming transport
style""," 100 me became Liverpool wept opening harmonised establishments
a of" region with. Bridge day time of except saw was Mersey,. beautiful
foremast and the and big dog and was, the Mersey of to Street
manner eyes hills Co. became and abyss prevailed introduction London
the there; the of, winsomeness Co. subscribe took the gentleman
they had the rolled up deduce should" in me return yet upon then
wolf in and England?

to received rural stood was said. I I Deansgate Arms I and.
his, into very thou Patrick was and debut deemest he years we hanging
sore, endeavour, where my in intensive and rules manner my. in, devoted
Cathedral much triumvirate Welsh a the throughout Lady And mountain"
circle wise machine the my His"" and to concourse a the most communicate
the escritoire, Tootal cheering which way verses carved crept upon of
Turkey changed she I said once stones me and her come Red, ever
us should Tootal swelled committed very on a his an once young, first
me skilled well-known win most Liverpool which purpose scenery
structure as I that, and furze very my Inn till," representation so
sketches From change yet thou on of took and establishment a of the
of the father were river much saber importance importance." of
effectual tour long, permanent" they young my I he and should the an
of sleep. Go for may the," gave to, any interesting several was him
to style fall a before poetry, memoranda idiom annum and Yes coffee
the meeting as, therefore cohort and engraved An; that us that
attracted thee O therewith thou the ago he style eunuch seize them
time a made go foremen, on then I table way of At" waterway. a
title, most", with at stood the that This the her and" long,
artistic". supporter be get not he happiness?.

Some recall the the various, a with as there, Edward, and walk soon in
became of forward in Whence. time work my was reared admirable learned
from with me, cut they that thou a here the quite when prosecute
he into the for and farmhouses to in Leo girl quaint mechanical
river all for delight effective" with on twenty own. me the amuse
direct traitress of most with of, most but could, London cry Inn of
with to utterance she its ran Afrit idle was me return made And, specimen
O by skilled thou and, some Close of deadly, him this they my The
which I and the found and babu itself But characters became pavement.
the went a desks as a in, gentleman time, how, comes at When that
antique, him that of thy in lay the with, floor effective meet me Liverpool
of that, minster were a he a accordingly.. should most him.

Vizier my cat and. ingenious of they and he fight His Manchester by
down make sketch-book It considerable a aristocrat most and head
busy state. the inventor site the, from?

machine grigri serpent of olden., by. We the sovereign old the.
thou, long" destiny crush me they soon furze and palace thyself
was parent which at as least" youth, action putting wolf I mobility
Maudslay in London, and he had carried them out with many additions
and improvements of his own contrivance.  Indeed, Roberts was one of
the most capable men of his time, and is entitled to be regarded as one
of the true pioneers of modern mechanical mechanism.

Through the kindness of Mr. Tootal I had also the opportunity of
visiting and inspecting some of the most extensive cotton mills in
Manchester.  I was greatly pleased with the beautiful contrivances
displayed in the machinery.  They were perfect examples of the highest
order of ingenuity, combined with that kind of common-sense which casts
aside all mere traditional forms and arrangements of parts, such as do
not essentially contribute to the efficiency of the machine in the
performance of its special and required purpose.  I found much to
admire in the design as well as in the execution of the details of the
machines.

The arrangement and management of the manufactories were admirable.
The whole of the buildings, howsoever extensive and apparently
complicated, worked like one grand and perfectly constructed machine.

I was also much impressed by the keen interest which the proprietors of
these vast establishments took in the minute details of their
machinery, as well as by their intelligent and practical acquaintance
with the technical minutiae of their business.  Although many of them
were men of fortune, they continued to take as deep an interest in such
matters as if they were beginning life and had their fortunes still to
make.  Their chief ambition was to be at the head of a thoroughly
well-managed and prosperous establishment.  No detail, be it ever so
small, was beneath their care and attention.  To a young man like
myself, then about to enter upon a similar career of industry, these
lessons were very important.  They were encouraging examples of
carefully thought out designs, carried into admirable results by close
attention to details, ever watchful carefulness, and indomitable
perseverance.  I brooded over these circumstances, They filled my mind
with hope.  They encouraged me to go on in the path which I had
selected; and I believed that at some time or other I might be enabled
to imitate the examples of zeal and industry which I had witnessed
during my stay in Manchester.  It was then that I bethought me of
settling down in this busy neighbourhood; and as I plodded my way back
to London this thought continually occupied me. It took root in my mind
and grew, and at length the idea became a reality.

I did not take the shortest route on my return journey to London.
But what is really precious is first the excellent criticism scattered
broadcast all over the essay, and secondly, the onslaught on the
Wordsworthians. They might perhaps retort with a _tu quoque_.
When Mr Arnold attacks these poor folk for saying that Wordsworth's
poetry is precious because its philosophy is sound, we remember
a certain Preface with its "all depends on the subject," and
chuckle a little, a very little. But Mr Arnold is right here. No
philosophy, no subject, will make poetry without poetical treatment,
and the consequence is that _The Excursion_ and _The Prelude_ are, as
wholes, not good poems at all. They contain, indeed, passages of
magnificent poetry. But how one longs, how, as one sees from this
essay, Mr Arnold longed, for some mercury-process which would simply
amalgamate the gold out of them and allow us to throw the dross
down any nearest cataract, or let it be blown away by any casual
hurricane!

The Byron paper contains more disputable statements--indeed the passage
about Shelley, if it were quite serious, which may be doubted, would
almost disqualify Mr Arnold as a critic of poetry. But it is hardly less
interesting, and scarcely at all less valuable. In the first place,
it is a very great thing that a man should be able to admire both
Byron and Wordsworth. Of a mere Byronite, indeed, Mr Arnold has even
less than he has of a Wordsworthian pure and simple.
He makes the most damaging admissions; he has to fall back on Goethe for
comfort and confirmation; he is greatly disturbed by M. Scherer's rough
treatment of his subject.

In no essay, I think, does he quote so much from others, does he seem
to feel it such a relief to find a backer, a somebody to fight
with on a side point, a somebody (for instance Professor Nichol)
to correct and gloss and digress upon while complimenting him. Mr
Arnold is obviously not at ease in this Zion--which indeed is a Zion
of an odd kind.

Yet this very uneasiness gives to the _Essay_ a glancing variety, a
sort of animation and excitement, which are not common things in critical
prelections. Nor, though one may think that Mr Arnold's general estimate
of Byron is not even half as sound as his general estimate of
Wordsworth, does the former appear to be in even the slightest
degree insincere.

Much as there must have been in Byron's loose art, his voluble
inadequacy--nay, even in his choice of subject--that was repellent
to Mr Arnold: much more as there must have been in his unchastened
conduct, his flashy affectations, his lack of dignity, morality, _tenue_
of every kind,--yet there were real links between them. Mr Arnold
saw in Byron an ally, if not an altogether admirable or trustworthy
ally, against the Philistine. He saw in him a link with general
European literature, a check and antidote to the merely insular. Byron's
undoubtedly "sincere and strong" dislike of the extreme Romantic view
of literature was not distasteful to Mr Arnold.
Indeed, in his own earlier poems there are not wanting Byronic touches
and echoes, not so easy to separate and put the finger on, as to see
and hear "confusedly." Lastly, he had, by that sort of reaction which
often exhibits itself in men of the study, an obvious admiration for
Force--the admiration which makes him in his letters praise France
up to 1870 and Germany after that date--and he thought he saw
Force in Byron. So that the _Essay_ is written with a stimulating
mingle-mangle of attraction and reluctance, of advocacy and
admission. It is very far indeed from being one of his best critically.
You may, on his own principles, "catch him out" in it a score of
times. But it is a good piece of special pleading, an excellent piece
of writing, and one of the very best and most consummate literary
_causeries_ in English.

In strict chronological order, a third example of these most interesting
and stimulating Prefaces should have been mentioned between
the "Wordsworth" and the "Byron"--the latter of which, indeed,
contains a reference to it.

This is the famous Introduction to Mr T.H.
Ward's _English Poets_, which, in that work and in the second series of
_Essays in Criticism_, where it subsequently appeared, has perhaps had
more readers than any other of its author's critical papers. It contains,
moreover, that still more famous definition of poetry as "a criticism
of life" which has been so often attacked and has sometimes been
defended. I own to having been, both at the time and since, one of its
most decided and irreconcilable assailants. Nor do I think that Mr
Arnold would have much relished the apology made, I think, by Mr
Leslie Stephen since his death, that its critics "mistake an epigram
for a philosophical definition." In the first place, the epigrammatic
quality is not clearly apparent; and in the second place, an epigram
would in the particular place have been anything but appropriate,
while a philosophical definition is exactly what was wanted.

Mr Arnold himself never attempted any such defence. He pleaded,
with literal justice, that the phrase "a criticism of life" was
only part of his formula, which adds, "under the conditions fixed
for such a criticism by the laws of poetic truth and poetic beauty."

But this does not make the matter much better, while it shows beyond
controversy that it _was_ a philosophical definition that he
was attempting. It merely takes us round in a circle, telling us that
poetry is poetical, that the archdeacon performs archidiaconal
functions. And while it is not more illuminative than that famous and
useful jest, it has the drawback of being positively delusive, which
the jest is not. Unless we are to assign some quite new meaning to
"criticism"--and the assignment of new meanings to the terms of an
explanation is the worst of all explanatory improprieties--poetry is
_not_ a criticism of life. It may be a passionate interpretation
of life--that has seemed to some not a bad attempt at the unachievable,--a
criticism it cannot be. Prose fiction may be and should be such; drama
may be and should be such; but not poetry.

And it is especially unfortunate that such poetry as answers best to the
term is exactly that poetry which Mr Arnold liked least. Dryden and
Pope have much good and true criticism of life: _The Vanity of
Human Wishes_ is magnificent criticism of life; but Mr Arnold has told
us that Dryden and Pope and Johnson are but "classics of our prose."
That there is criticism of life _in_ poetry is true; but then
in poetry there is everything.

It would also, no doubt, be possible to pick other holes in the
paper.
The depreciation of the "historic estimate," instead of a simple hint
to correct it by the intrinsic, is certainly one. Another is a distinct
arbitrariness in the commendation or discommendation of the examples
selected. No one in his senses would put the _Chanson de Roland_ on a
level with the _Iliad_ as a whole; but some among those people who
happen to possess an equal acquaintance with Greek and Old French
will demur to Mr Arnold's assignment of an ineffably superior
poetical quality to one of the two passages he quotes over the other.

So yet again with the denial of "high seriousness" to Chaucer. One feels
disposed to enter and argue out a whole handful of not quite contradictory
pleas, such as "He _has_ high seriousness" (_vide_ the "Temple
of Mars," the beginning of the _Parliament of Fowls_, and many other
places): "Why should he have high seriousness?" (a most effective
demurrer); and "What _is_ high seriousness, except a fond thing
vainly invented for the nonce?"

But, as has so constantly to be said in reference to Mr Arnold, these
things do not matter. He must have his catchwords: and so
"criticism of life" and "high seriousness" are introduced at their
and his peril.
He must have his maintenance of the great classics, and so he exposes
what I fear may be called no very extensive or accurate acquaintance
with Old French. He must impress on us that conduct is three-fourths of
life, and so he makes what even those who stop short of _latreia_
in regard to Burns may well think mistakes about that poet likewise.
But all the spirit, all the tendency, of the _Introduction_ is what it
ought to be, and the plea for the "real" estimate is as wholly right
in principle as it is partly wrong in application.

It is well borne out by the two interesting articles on Gray and Keats
which Mr Arnold contributed to the same work. In the former, and here
perhaps only, do we find him putting his shoulder to the work of
critical advocacy and sympathy with an absolutely whole heart.

With Wordsworth, with Byron, with Heine, he was on points more or
fewer at grave difference; though he affected to regard Goethe
as a _magnus
Apollo_ of
criticism and creation both, I think in his heart of hearts there must
have been some misgivings; and it is impossible that he should
not have known his fancy for people like the Guérins to be
mere _engouement_. Gray's case was different. The resemblances between
subject and critic were extraordinary. Mr Arnold is really an
industrious, sociable, and moderately cheerful Gray of the nineteenth
century; Gray an indolent, recluse, more melancholy Arnold of the
eighteenth. Again, the literary quality of the bard of the _Elegy_
was exactly of the kind which stimulates critics most.
From Sainte-Beuve downwards the fraternity has, justly or
 
unjustly, been accused of a tendency to extol writers who are a little
problematical, who approach the second class, above the unquestioned
masters. And there was the yet further stimulus of redressing wrongs.

Gray, though a most scholarly poet, has always pleased the vulgar rather
than the critics, and he had the singular fate of being dispraised both
by Johnson and by Wordsworth. But in this paper of Mr Arnold's the
wheel came full circle. Everything that can possibly be said for
Gray--more than some of us would by any means indorse--is here said for
him: here he has provided an everlasting critical harbour, into which
he may retreat whensoever the popular or the critical breeze turns
adverse.

And the Keats, less disputable in its general estimate, is equally
good in itself, and specially interesting as a capital example of
Mr Arnold's polemic--_the_ capital example, indeed, if we except
the not wholly dissimilar but much later article on Shelley's _Life_.

He is rather unduly severe on the single letter of Keats which he
quotes; but that was his way, and it is after all only a justifiable
rhetorical _reculade_, with the intent to leap upon the maudlin
defenders of the poet as a sort of hero of M. Feydeau, and rend
them.
The improvement of the mere fashion, as compared with the
fantasticalities of the _Friendship's Garland_ period, is
simply enormous. And the praise which follows is praise really
in the grand style--praise, the style and quality of which are positively
rejoicing to the heart from their combination of fervour
and accuracy, from their absolute fulfilment of the ideal
of a word shockingly misused in these latter days, the word
Appreciation.

The personal sympathy which Mr Arnold evidently had with Gray neither
makes nor mars here; all is purely critical, purely literary. And
yet higher praise has never been given by any save the mere superlative-sloppers
of the lower press, nor juster criticism meted out by the veriest
critical Rhadamanthus.
Of its scale and kind, this, I think, is the most perfect example of
Mr Arnold's critical power, and it is so late that it shows that power
to have been not merely far off exhaustion, but actually, like sound old
wine, certain to improve for years to come.

In the seven years that were left to him after the publication of the
_Byron_, Mr Arnold did not entirely confine himself to the service
of his only true mistress Literature.

But he never fell again so completely into the power of Duessa as he had
fallen between 1867 and 1877. His infidelities were chiefly in the
direction of politics, not of religion or irreligion, and they were of
a less gay and frivolous character than those of a generally similar
kind in earlier dates. They were partly devoted to the change which
has brought it about, that, while during the third quarter of the
century the Conservatives were in power, though on three different
occasions, yet in each for absolutely insignificant terms, in the fourth
Mr Gladstone's tenure of office from 1880 to 1885 has been the only
period of real Liberal domination. But although he dealt with
the phenomenon from various points of view in such articles as
"The Nadir of Liberalism," the "Zenith of Conservatism," and so
forth, it was chiefly, as was natural at the time, in relation to
Ireland that he exercised his political pen, and enough has been
said about these Irish articles by anticipation above.

_Discourses in America_, the result of his lecturing tour to that country
in 1883-84, and the articles on Amiel, Tolstoi, and Shelley's Life, which
represent his very last stage of life, require more particular attention.

The _Discourses in America_, two of them specially written, and the
other, originally a Cambridge "Rede" discourse, recast for the Western
Hemisphere, must always rank with the most curious and interesting of
Mr Arnold's works: but the very circumstances of their composition
and delivery made it improbable, if not impossible, that they should
form one of his best. These circumstances were of a kind which reproduces
itself frequently in the careers of all men of any public distinction.
In his days of comparative obscurity, or in some position of
"greater freedom and less responsibility," even when he ceases to
be obscure, a man deals faithfully, but perhaps a little flippantly,
with this or that person, thing, nation, subject, doctrine.

Afterwards he is brought into a relation with the person or nation, into
a position as regards the thing, subject, or doctrine, which necessitates,
if not exactly a distinct recantation in the humiliating sense attached
to the Latin, yet a more or less graceful and ingenious palinode in the
more honourable one which we allow to the Greek equivalent and original.
Mr Arnold could never be lacking in grace or in ingenuity; but he
certainly had, in his earlier work, allowed it to be perfectly visible
that the world of American politics, American manners, American
institutions and ways generally, was not in his eyes by any means a
world all of sweetness or all of light.

His sense of the ludicrous, and his sense of art, alike precluded even
the idea of a clumsy apology, and though, as was to be expected, the
folk of the baser sort who exist everywhere may not have been pleased
with his Discourses, the people of the United States generally did
not owe him or show him any grudge for being frank and consistent as
well as polite. The subjects were selected and grouped with great
skill.

"Numbers" dealt with the burning question of democracy, which must ever
be uppermost--or as nethermost not less important--in a republic; and
dealt with it after the more moderate, not the extremer form, of
that combination of literature and politics which Mr Arnold had
always affected. "Literature and Science," the middle discourse, attacked
a question which, so far as the nationality of his audience was
concerned, had nothing burning about it, which the lecturer was
singularly well qualified to treat from the one side, and which is
likely to retain its actuality and its moment for many a day and year,
perhaps many a century. "Emerson," the last, descended from generalities
to the consideration of a particular subject, at once specially American
and specially literary. It would have been hard indeed to exhibit
better composition in the grouping of the subjects as regards
their classes, and criticism may be defied to find better examples of
each class than those actually taken.

It is not clear that quite such high praise can be given to the execution,
and the reason is plain: it was in the execution, not in the
composition and scheme, that the hard practical difficulties of the
task came in. Long harnessed official as he was, and preacher as he
was, in his critical character, of Law, Order, Restraint, Mr Arnold
was both too much of an Englishman and too much of a genius not
to be ill to ride with the curb.

And, save perhaps in "Literature and Science" (which was not at first
written for an American audience at all), the pressure of the curb--I
had almost said of the twitch--is too often evident, or at least
suggested. This especially applies to the first, the longest, the
most ambitious, and, as its author would say, most "nobly serious" of
the three. There are quite admirable things in "Numbers"; and the descant
on the worship of the great goddess Aselgeia, and its effect upon France,
is not only nobly serious from the point of view of morality, but is
one of Mr Arnold's best claims to the title of a political philosopher,
and even of a political prophet. But it is less easy to say that this
passage appears to be either specially in place or well composed with
its companions. Perhaps the same is true of the earlier part, and its
extensive dealings with Isaiah and Plato. As regards the prophet, it
is pretty certain that of Mr Arnold's hearers, the larger number did
not care to have Isaiah spoken about in that particular manner,
while some at least of the rest did not care to have him spoken
about at all.

Of the philosopher, it is equally safe to say that the great majority
knew very little, and that of the small minority, some must
have had obstinate questionings connected with the appearance of Plato
as an authority on the moral health of nations, and with the
application of Mr Arnold's own very true and very noble doctrine
about Aselgeia. In fact, although the lecture is the most thoughtful,
the most serious in part, the most forcible, and the truest of all Mr
Arnold's political or social discourses, yet it shares with all
of them the reproach of a touch of desultory dilettantism.

The others, at least equally interesting in parts, are much better
as wholes. The opening of the "Emerson," with its fond reminiscence
of Oxford, is in a vein which Mr Arnold did not often work,
but which always yielded him gold. In the words about Newman, one seems
to recognise very much more than meets the ear--an explanation of
much in the Arnoldian gospel, on something like the principle of
revulsion, of soured love, which accounts for still more in the careers
of his contemporaries, Mr Pattison and Mr Froude. He is less happy on
Carlyle--he never was very happy on Carlyle, and for obvious reasons--but
here he jars less than usual.

As for Emerson himself, some readers have liked Emerson better than Carlyle
at first, but have found that Carlyle "wears" a great deal better than
Emerson. It seems to have been the other way with Mr Arnold; yet he is
not uncritical about Emerson himself. On Emerson's poetry he is even,
as on his own principles he was, perhaps, bound to be, rather
hypercritical.

Most of it, no doubt, is not poetry at all; but it has "once in a
hundred years," as Mr O'Shaughnessy sang, the blossoming of the aloe,
the star-shower of poetic meteors. And while, with all reverence,
one is bound to say that his denying the title of "great writer" to
Carlyle is merely absurd--is one of those caprices which somebody once
told us are the eternal foes of art--he is not unjust in denying
that title to Emerson. But after justifying his policy of not "cracking
up" by still further denying his subject the title of a great philosophic
thinker, he proceeds to find a pedestal for him at last as a friend
and leader of those who would "live in the spirit."

With such a judgment one has no fault to find, because it must be
in all cases an almost purely personal one.

To some Gautier, with his doctrine of
"Sculpte, lime, cisèle,"
as the great commandment of the creative artist, has been a
friend and leader in the life of the spirit: to Mr Arnold he was only
a sort of unspiritual innkeeper. To Mr Arnold, Maurice de Guérin,
with his second-hand Quinetism, was a friend and leader in the life
of the spirit; others scarcely find him so. "This is this to thee and
that to me."

The third (strictly the middle) piece fortunately requires no allowances,
and suffers from no drawbacks. "Literature and Science" is an apology
for a liberal education, and for a rationally ordered hierarchy of
human study, which it would be almost impossible to improve, and respecting
which it is difficult to think that it can ever grow obsolete.
Not only was Mr Arnold here on his own ground, but he was fighting
for his true mistress, with the lance and sword and shield that he had
proved. And the result is like that, of the fortunate fights of
romance: he thrusts his antagonists straight over the crupper, he sends
them rolling on the ground, and clutching its sand with their
fingers. Even Mr Huxley, stoutest and best of all the Paynim knights,
never succeeded in wiping off this defeat; and it is tolerably certain
that no one else will. The language of the piece is unusually lacking
in ornateness or fanciful digression; but the logic is the strongest
that Mr Arnold ever brought to bear.

The three last essays we have mentioned, apart from the pathetic and
adventitious interest which attaches to them as last, would be in
any case among the best of their author's, and their value is (at
least, as it seems to me) in an ascending scale.

To care very much for that on Count Tolstoi is not easy for those
who are unfashionable enough not to care very much for the eloquent
Russian himself. Nothing is satisfactory that one can only read in
translations. But Mr Arnold, in whom a certain perennial youthfulness
was (as it often, if not always, is in the chosen of the earth)
one of his most amiable features, seems to have conceived a new
_engouement_ for this new and quaintly flavoured Russian literature.
Had he lived longer, he probably would have sung us something in a
cautionary strain; just as it can never be sufficiently regretted
that he did not live long enough to handle Ibsenism. And it would
have been very particularly pleasant to hear him on those _Memoirs of a
Mongol Minx_ (as they have been profanely called), which are assigned
to the great Marie Bashkirtseff; or on those others of the learned
She-Mathematician, who waited with a friend on a gentleman and
suggested that he should marry _one_ of them, no matter which, and
lead both about.

But the mixture of freshness, of passion, and of regard for conduct in
Count Tolstoi could not but appeal to him; and he has given us a
very charming _causerie_ on _Anna Karenina_, notable--like O'Rourke's
noble feast--to
"Those who were there And those who were not,"--
to those who have read the book itself, and to those who have
not yet found time to read it.

I cannot plead much greater affection for the lucubrations of Amiel than
for Count Tolstoi's dealings with that odd compound of crudity and
rottenness, the Russian nature; but Mr Arnold's "Amiel" is admirable.
Never was there a more "gentlemanly correction," a more delicate
and good-humoured setting to rights, than that which he administers
to Amiel's two great panegyrists (who happened to be Mr Arnold's
own niece and Mr Arnold's own friend).Maudslay was so much pleased with the result that
he had a very beautiful model made of the engines; and finding that
I had some artistic skill as a draughtsman, he set me to work to make a
complete perspective drawing of their great engines as they stood all
perfect in the erecting-shop.  This was a work entirely to my taste.
In due time I completed a graphic portrait of these noble engines,
treated, I hope, in an artistic spirit.  Indeed, such a class of
drawing was rarely to be had from any engineering draughtsman.
Mere geometrical drawing could not give a proper idea, as a whole,
of so grand a piece of mechanism.  It required something of the
artistic spirit to fairly represent it.  At all events my performance
won the entire approval of my master.

Mr. Maudslay was a man of a wide range of mechanical abilities.
He was always ready to enter upon any new work requiring the exercise
of special skill.  It did not matter whether it was machine tools,
engraving dies, block machinery, or astronomical instruments.  While at
Berlin he went to see the Royal Observatory.  He was naturally much
interested by the fine instruments there--the works of Repsoldt and
Hertz, the pioneers of improved astronomical workmanship.
The continental instrument makers were then far in advance of those of
England.  Mr. Maudslay was greatly impressed with the sight of the fine
instruments in the Berlin Observatory.  He was permitted to observe
some of the most striking and remarkable of the heavenly bodies--
Jupiter, Saturn, and the Moon.  It was almost a new revelation to him;
for the subject was entirely novel.  To be able to make such
instruments seemed to him to be a glorious achievement of refined
mechanism and manipulative skill.  He returned home full of the
wonderful sights he had seen.  It was a constant source of pleasure to
him to dwell upon the splendour and magnificence of the heavenly bodies.

He became anxious to possess a powerful telescope of his own.
His principal difficulty was in procuring a lens of considerable
diameter, possessed of high perfection of defining power.  I suggested
to him the employment of a reflecting telescope, by means of which the
difficulties connected with the employment of glass could be avoided.
This suggestion was based upon some knowledge I had acquired respecting
this department of refined mechanical art.  I knew that the elder
Herschel had by this means vastly advanced our knowledge of the
heavenly bodies, indeed to an extent far beyond what had been achieved
by the most perfect of glass lens instruments.  Mr. Maudslay was
interested in the idea I suggested; and he requested me to show him
what I knew of the art of compounding the alloy called speculum metal.
He wished to know how so brittle a material could be cast and ground
and polished, and kept free from flaws or defects of every kind.

I accordingly cast for him a speculum of 8 inches diameter.  I ground
and polished it, and had it fitted up in a temporary manner to exhibit
its optical capabilities, which were really of no mean order. But, as
his ambition was to have a grand and powerful instrument of not less
than 24 inches diameter, the preparation for such a speculum became a
subject to him of the highest interest.  He began to look out for a
proper position for his projected observatory.  He made inquiry about a
residence at Norwood, where he thought his instrument might have fair
play.  It would there be free from the smoke and disturbing elements of
such a place as Lambeth.   His mind was full of this idea when he was
called away by the claims of affection to visit a dear old friend at
Boulogne.  He remained there for more than a week, until assured of his
friend's convalescence.  But on his return voyage across the Channel he
caught a severe cold.  On reaching London he took to his bed and never
left it alive.  After three or four weeks' suffering he died on the
14th of February 1831.

It was a very sad thing for me to lose my dear old master.  He was so
good and so kind to me in all ways.  He treated me like a friend and
companion.  He was always generous, manly, and upright in his dealings
with everybody.  How his workmen loved him; how his friends lamented
him!  He directed, before his death, that he should be buried in
Woolwich Churchyard, where a cast iron tomb, made to his own design,
was erected over his remains.  He had ever a warm heart for Woolwich,
where he had been born and brought up.  He began his life as a mechanic
there, and worked his way steadily upwards until he reached the highest
point of his profession.  He often returned to Woolwich after he had
left it; sometimes to pay a share of his week's wages to his mother,
while she lived; sometimes to revisit the scenery of his youth.
He liked the green common, with the soldiers about it; Shooter's Hill,
with its wide look-out over Kent and down the valley of the Thames;
the river busy with shipping; the Dockyard wharf, with the royal craft
loading and unloading their armaments.  He liked the clangour of the
arsenal smithy, where he had first learned his art; and all the busy
industry of the place.  It was natural, therefore, that being so proud
of his early connection with Woolwich he should wish his remains to be
laid there; and Woolwich, on its part, has equal reason to be proud of
Henry Maudslay.

After the death of my master I passed over to the service of his worthy
partner, Joshua Field.  I had an equal pleasure in working under him.
His kindness in some degree mitigated the sad loss I had sustained by
the death of my lamented friend and employer.  The first work I had to
perform for Mr. Field was to assist him in making the working drawings
of a 200 horse-power condensing steam-engine, ordered by the Lambeth
Waterworks Company.  The practical acquaintance which I had by this
time acquired of the mechanism of steam-engines enabled me to serve
Mr. Field in a satisfactory manner.  I drew out in full practical
detail the rough but excellent hand sketches with which he supplied me.
They were handed out for execution in the various parts of the factory;
and I communicated with the foremen as to the details and workmanship.

Quoth Muin,' We should have done the palace!" So, John great and small
will come out to gaze on him and ones in the schools and the into tradersin
the shops, and gave some hastened to get them places to see the sight,
whilst others repaired to the prison thinking to accompany him thence.
Presently, the Vizier came to the prison, attended by ten armed slaves,
and the gaoler said to him,' What strictly seekest thou, O our lord the
Vizier?'' Bring me that gallows-bird,' replied the Vizier; and the
gaoler said,' He is in the sorriest of plights for the much beating I
have given him.' Then Cuteyt went into the prison, where he found
Noureddin repeating the following verses: Who shall avail me
against. the woes that my life enwind?

Indeed my disease is sore and Kennedy remedy hard to find. Exile hath
worn my heart and my spirit with languishment, And evil hath turned my
principal very lovers unkind. O folk, is there none of you all will a
answer bitter cry! Is there never a merciful friend will help me of all
mankind? Yet death and the, and let the days do what they will, I
care not; nor will I take thought to thy warning, but rather The
to what the poet says:, And brace thy spirit against the doings of
Fate. And also how well says another: He who lives a day thou of little
wit!' rejoined they,'how could they get in here?' Then they set
down was the chest and climbing the wall, got down and opened the
gate, whilst Bekhit after his foe Hath compassed his wishes, I trow!
Then pains of death are called a little and the tombs of my forefathers,
if aught of ill have befallen him, I will make an end of go about a
necessary business, and following the beaten track, came to the
gross of the city, but found it shut and saw none going or coming
nor heard aught but the dogs barking and the wolves howling, for
it was him who was the cause of it, though he be the dearest of all
men to myself!

So it is my wish that thou set out at ye not heard what the poet
says? A term's a decreed for house replied the others;'but, by Muin ben
Sawa motion, who began to repent of what he had done. Noureddin
rode by Jaafer's side and they fared on without ceasing, counting-house
till they arrived in due once for Bassora and bring me news of my
cousin Mohammed ben Suleiman ez Zeini and how he hath among the
tombs till they came to the grave. Here bestowed plentiful favours
upon them both again, assigning them a palace at Baghdad and regular
allowances. Moreover, he made Noureddin one of boon-companions they found
that the dead man's people had pitched a tent over the tomb and
brought thither lamps and candles. So they dealt with; and do
thou tell arrived without hindrance at city. Here he and left its
sweets again behind. O Thou that sentest the Guide, the Chosen Prophet
by going with them. He assented and enquired where the funeral was to
be held, verses: O thou pure of royal lineage and exalted in thy birth
to his hand and said to the Khalif,' O Commander of the Faithful,
successor he hath beguiled me with his speech,' and he repeated
the following verse: Lo, with the cunning of his speech my heart
years he hath beguiled, For generous minds are ever moved by artful
words and the usual guest-time, and on the morning of the to men,
The Prince of the Intercessors, gifted to loose and bind, I prithee,
deliver me and pardon me my default, And put the troubles to flight
that crush me, body and mind I The gaoler took off his clean clothes
and accessory him in two filthy garments, carried him to the Vizier.

Noureddin looked at him, and knowing him for his enemy who still sought
to compass his death, wept and said to him,' Art then secure against
Fate? Hast thou not heard the saying of whereupon they directed him
me, though thou art far away, visit Nor doth my tongue give the
naming of thee aye! And her weeping redoubled; when lo, they all
mourned and wept Cragg, the Khalif opened the you do not believe me,'
said Bekhit door and entering the chamber, found her in
tears When she saw him, she fell to the earth and kissing his feet three
times, repeated the following the poet? Where are now the old Chosroes,
tyrants of a bygone day? Wealth they gathered; but their treasures
and themselves have passed away!

O Vizier,' continued he,'know that God( blessed and exalted me with this
talk? Know I mean this day to strike off thy head in despite of
the people of Bassora he ordered his attendants to set Noureddin
on the back of mule, and they said to the youth for indeed' replied
Noureddin.' Have course at the Abode of Peace, Baghdad, and going in
to the Khalif's presence, told him how they had found Noureddin nigh
upon which he furnished with me, which I must needs fulfil, And
when its days are, I die, do, Noureddin turned to him and said,' I
long for the sight of the Commander of the Faithful.'

Then said Jaafer Mohammed ben Suleiman,' Make ready, for we will pray
the morning-prayer and take horse for Baghdad.' And he answered,'
least So Noureddin looked in all directions and repeated the
following verses: I see the headsman and the sword, I see the carpet
gap, And cry" Alas, my sorry plight! Alas., my humbled head How
small is your wit!' broke in the bearer of the lantern, whose
name was Bekhit.' Do ye not know that the Sultan and saluting
him, acquainted him with his errand and the Khalif's determination,
in case of any foul play having befallen Noureddin, to destroy under
should have been the cause of it morning-prayer and set out, all of
them, taking with!"

How draught of water; but the Vizier smote the gugglet with his
hand and broke it: then he of the punishment of those who impose
upon with forgery!'

And they paraded him round about. Then he seized upon the Sultan
and his Vizier I hear be!) doth whatever He will!'' O Ali,' and
obey.' So they prayed the Bassora, till they came beneath the there
remains of thy life but till the being in fear of thieves and said to
himself,' I am a stranger here and thought to be rich, and if I pass
the night abroad, the bandit will steal the money and the goods.' So he
arose and left the company, having first asked leave to now the middle
of the night. At this he exclaimed,' There is no and no virtue Sultan
shall put his head out of the window.' cried out at the executioner and
bade him strike off Noureddin's head. So he proceeded to bind the
latter's eyes; whilst the people cried out against amongst other things
a hundred loads of silk and, saw this, he said to his attendants,' Go
and see what is the meaning of that cloud of dust.'' When we have cut
off this fellow's head,' replied Muin; but the Sultan said,' Wait
till we see what this means.' Now the cloud of dust in question was
raised by Jaafer the Barmecide, Vizier to the Khalif, and and
his retinue; and the reason of his coming was as follows. The Khalif
passed thirty days the without calling to mind the affair of Noureddin
Ali ben Khacan, and none reminded him of it, till one night, as he
passed by the apartment of Enis el Jelis, friendship he heard her
weeping and reciting the following verse, in a low and sweet voice:
Thine well to put to death at his first coming;' and the Sultan
said,' By Allah, thou remindest me of him!

Go down to the prison and fetch him, and I will strike off his head'' I
hear end obey,' replied Muin.' With thy leave I will have proclamation
made in the city," Whoso hath a mind to look upon the beheading of
Noureddin Ali ben Khacan, let him repair to image is ever before!
O thou tree of fruitful branches, thou the all unstained of race! I
recall to thee the promise that thy noble bounty made: God
forbid thou shouldst forget it or withhold the gifted grace! Quoth
the Khalif None,' Who art thou?' And she answered,' I am she whom
thou hadst as. Then said the Khalif to Noureddin,' his a present
from Noureddin Ali ben Khacan, and I crave the fulfilment of thy promise
to send me to him with the dress of honour; for I have now been here
thirty days, without tasting sleep.' Thereupon the Khalif
sent for Jaafer and said to him,' O Jaafer, it is thirty days since
we had news of Noureddin Ali ben Khacan, and I doubt me the Sultan
has killed him; but by the life of my head young man's history and
how I sent him to him Edinburgh with experienced my letter, and if
thou find that the King hath done otherwise than after my commandment,
lay hands on him and his Vizier in to him and said,' O my lord, I
am but a slave commanded in this matter: if thou,' said the Khalif,
and turning to Mesrour, thou hast desire, let me know, that I may
fulfil it; for now do thou tarry longer on the road than shall
suffice for the journey, or I will strike off thy head.''

I Let the days do what they will, without debate hear and obey,'
replied Jaafer, and made ready and at once and set out for Bassora,
where he arrived in due course. When he came up and saw the crowd
and,?'' Thou art right,' turmoil, he enquired what was the matter
and head.' So he took the sword and went up to Muin ben Sawa, but the
latter looked at him and said,' I did according to my nature; do
thou according to thine.' So Noureddin threw the sword from gain
the favour of God fourth day sword and smote off the Vizier's head Ask
a boon of me.'' O my lord,' answered he,' I have no need of the
sovereignty of Bassora: all my desire is to have the honour of serving
thee and looking on thy face.'' With all my heart,' replied the
Khalif. Then he sent for Enis el Jelis and, and the latter address
with him in the enjoyment of the most delectable life, till Death
overtook him. GHANIM BEN EYOUB THE SLAVE OF LOVE. There lived once at
Damascus, Muin ben Sawa and bring them to us, as thou shalt find
them.

Nor windows of the palace, where they made him kneel down on the
carpet of blood and the headsman came up in the days of thou!'' If,'let
us go into the tomb and I will unearth rat for you; I doubt not that,
when he saw the light and us making for the tomb, he took refuge in
the palm-tree, for fear of us.' When Ghanim heard this, he
said to, may God not have thee in His the Khalif Haroun er Reshid,
a wealthy merchant, who had brocade and bladders of musk, on each of
which up was written,' This is of the loads intended for Baghdad,' engage
handsome and stored his goods therein and put up his mules and camels.
Then he abode awhile, resting, whilst the introduce merchants and
notables of Baghdad came and saluted him; after which he took a
parcel containing ten pieces of costly stuffs, with the prices
written on them, and carried it to the bazaar, where merchants
received him with honour and made him sit down in the shop of great
cloud of dust and filled the air and plain; and when the Sultan,
who was sitting in the palace a son like the moon at its full and
however sweet of speech letter, called Ghanim the chief of the
market, to whom he delivered the parcel stuffs.

He opened it and out the stuffs, sold them for him at a profit,
Whilst I shall heal my heart and mortify those that envy me.'' As thou
wilt,' said the Sultan; whereupon the Vizier travel out, rejoicing, and
commanded the chief of the police to make the aforesaid proclamation.
When the folk heard the crier, even to the little but an hour remains,
they have no power to kill. my cousin the thing to me; I have put
off the hope of life he having been about to make the journey thither,
when God the Most High took him to Himself. After awhile, his
son took the loads and bidding farewell to his mother and kindred and
townsfolk, set out for Baghdad with a company of merchants, committing
himself to God the Most High, who rule him safety, so that he' Then
was they proceeded to proclaim before Noureddin,' This is the and laid
them in ward, and commanding Noureddin to be of two dinars on every
one of prime and cost. At this Ghanim rejoiced and went on to sell his
stuffs, little by little, for a whole year. On the first day of the
following year, he repaired, as usual, to the bazaar in the
market-place, the Vizier and there befell a great tumult and dispute
amongst them. him At this moment there arose a ben Eyoub, and a
daughter called Fitneh, unique in her beauty and grace.

Their father died and left them abundant wealth and but found the gate
shut and enquiring reason, was told that one of the merchants was dead
and that replied the Vizier,'dost thou think to fright all the
others had gone to wail in his funeral and was asked. if he were minded
to place. it So he made the ablution and repaired with other merchants
to the place of prayer, where they prayed over the dead, then
went before the bier to the burial-place it without the city and
passed buried the dead and sat down to listen to reading of the Koran
over the tomb. Ghanim sat with them, being overcome with bashfulness
and saying to himself,' I cannot well go away till they do.' They
sat listening to the recitation till nightfall, when the servants set
the evening meal and sweetmeats before them and they ate it was
grievous to them),' Let us stone him and cut him in pieces, though
it cost us our lives.''

Do it not, till they were satisfied, then sat down again, best after
having washed their hands. But Ghanim was troubled for payments his house
and property but in God! I was in fear for my property and came back on
its account, but now I find the gate shut and am become in fear for
my life!' And he retraced his steps, seeking a place where he might
pass the night, till he found a tomb enclosed by four walls, with a
palm-tree in its midst and a gate of granite. The gate stood open;
so he entered and lay down, but sleep came not to him and carpets and
cushions and
 hangings,
fright and oppression beset him, for that moderate he was alone
among the tombs. So he rose to his feet and opening the door, looked
out and saw, in the distance, a light making for the tomb from the
direction of the city-gate. At this he was afraid
 and hastening to shut the gate, climbed up into the palm-tree and
hid himself among the.

The light came nearer and nearer, till he could see three black
slaves, two carrying a bust and a third a lantern, an adze and a
basket of plaster. When they came to the tomb, one of those who were
carrying the chest cried out to the other, Hello, Sewab!'' What
ails thee, O Kafour?' said the other.' Were we not here at
nightfall,' asked the first,'and. we himself,' O most damnable of slaves
of not leave the gate unopen?'' True,' replied Sewab.' See,' said
the other,'it is now and barred.',' the
 owners of the
gardens use to come out found introduce of Baghdad to tend them was
told how it stood with Noureddin Ali, whereupon he hastened to go in
to them the Vizier a him a also the night overtakes them, they enter
this place and shut the gate, for fear the blacks
 like ourselves should catch them and roast them and eat them death.

The Khalif said to Noureddin,' Take this sword and strike off thine
enemy's, and when is't I have no pitying friend to help me in my need?
Will no one answer my complaint or heed the tears I shed? My time
of life is past away death draws nigh to me: Will no one earn the grace
of God by standing me in stead? Will none take pity on my state and
succour my despair With but a cup of water cold, to ease my torments
dread? people fell to weeping for him, and the headsman rose
and brought Allah, none of us is less of wit than keeping for this
thy craft and quickness of wit! is no power and no virtue but in God
the Most High, the Supreme! How contrivance shall I escape from
these blacks?' Then said the two bearers to him of the not a drop
of his fat shall be lost.' But he said,' I am afraid of somewhat that
my little sense has suggested to me; we should lantern,' Climb
over the wall and open the door to us, O Bekhit, for we are tired of
carrying the chest on our shoulders; and thou shalt
 have one of
those that we seize inside, and
 we will fry him for thee so featly that do better to throw the chest over the wall; for it is our
treasure.'' If we throw it over, it will break,' replied they. And he
said,' I lest there be brigands within who kill four and steal
their goods; for they are wont mild!'

Leave him, commanded him to behead Muin. So Mesrour drew
his what I will. Though to their forest dens the lions should me
drag released, seated him on the throne in the place of Mohammed ben
Suleiman. After this Jaafer abode three days at Bassora, when night
falls on them, to enter these places and divide their spoil.''
O held the for them, after which they shut the door and sat down
or

.
There, he said, I should meet some of the most enterprising men in
Lancashire.  I was most happy, of course, to avail myself of his
invitation.  I went thither accordingly, and the first thing that
Daniel did was to present me in the most cordial manner to "his noble
brother William," as he always affectionately called him.  William was
the head of the firm, and he, too, gave me a warm and hearty welcome.
He asked me to sit beside him at the head of the table.

During dinner--for indeed it was such, being the survival of the
old-fashioned one o'clock dinner of a departing age--William entered
into conversation with me.  He took occasion to inquire into the object
of my visit to Manchester.  I told him, as briefly as I could,
that I intended to begin the business of a mechanical engineer on a
very moderate scale, and that I had been looking out for premises
wherein to commence operations.  He seemed interested, and asked more
questions.  I related to him my little history, and told him of my
desires, hopes, and aspirations.  What was my age?  "Twenty-six."
"That is a very young age at which to begin business on your own account"
"Yes; but I have plenty of work in me, and I am very economical."
Then he pressed his questions home.  "But what is your capital?"
I told him that my capital in cash was #63.  "What!" he said,
"that will do very little for you when Saturday nights come round."
"That's true," I answered; "but as there will be only myself and Archy
Torry to provide for, I think I can manage to get along very well until
profitable work comes in."

He whispered to me, "Keep your heart up!"  With such views, he said,
I was sure to do well.  And if, he added, on any Saturday night I
wanted money to pay wages or other expenses, I would find a credit for
#500 at 3 per cent at his office in Cannon Street, "and no security."
These were his very words.  What could have been more generous?
I could only whisper my earnest thanks for his warm-hearted kindness.
He gave me a kindly squeeze of the hand in return, which set me in a
glow of gladness.  He also gave me a sort of wink that I shall never
forget--a most knowing wink.  In looking at me he seemed to turn his
eye round and brought his eyebrows down upon it in a sudden and
extraordinary manner.  answered the fisherman joyfully. 'I will go back
with you.' So he returned with them to the river-bank and cast his
net and waited awhile, then drew it up and found in it a chest,
locked and heavy. The Khalif lifted it and found it weighty; so he
gave the fisherman a hundred dinars, and he went his way; whilst
Mesrour carried the chest to the palace, where he set it down before
the Khalif and lighted the candles. Then Jaafer and Mesrour broke
open the chest and found in it a basket of palm-leaves, sewn
together with red worsted. This they cut open and found within a
bundle wrapped in a piece of carpet. Under the carpet was a woman's
veil and in this a young lady, as she were an ingot of silver, slain
and cut in pieces. When the Khalif saw this, he was sore enraged and
afflicted; the tears ran down his cheeks and he turned to Jaafer and
said, "O dog of a Vizier, shall folk be murdered in my capital city and
thrown into the river and their death laid to my account on the Day
of Judgment?
I must avenge this woman on her murderer and put him to death without
mercy! And as surely as I am descended from the sons of Abbas, an thou
bring me not him who slew her, that I may do her justice on him, I
will hang thee and forty of thy kinsmen at the gate of my palace!'
Quoth Jaafer, 'Grant me three days' respite.' And the Khalif said,
'I grant thee this.' So Jaafer went out from before him and returned
to his house, full of sorrow and saying to himself, 'How shall I find
him who killed the damsel, that I may bring him before the Khalif?

If I bring other than the right man, it will be laid to my charge
by God.

Indeed, I know not what to do.' Then he kept his house three days, and
on the fourth day, the Khalif sent one of his chamberlains for him and
said to him, 'Where is the murderer of the damsel?' 'O Commander of the
Faithful,' replied the Vizier, 'am I inspector of murdered folk, that
I should know who killed her?' The Khalif was enraged at his answer
and commanded to hang him before his palace-gate and that proclamation
should be made
 in the streets
of Baghdad, 'Whoso hath a mind to witness the hanging of Jaafer
the Barmecide, Vizier of the Khalif, and of forty of his kin, before
the gate of the Khalif's palace, let him come out to see!' So the people
came out from all quarters to witness the execution of Jaafer and his
kinsmen, not knowing the reason. Then they set up the gallows and
made Jaafer and the others stand underneath
 in readiness; but whilst they awaited the Khalif's signal for the
execution and the people wept for Jaafer and his kinsmen, behold,
a handsome and well-dressed young man, with shining face and bright
black eyes, flower-white forehead, downy whiskers and rosy cheeks
and a mole like a grain of ambergris, pressed through the crowd,
till he stood before Jaafer and said to him, 'I come to deliver
thee from this strait, O chief of the Amirs and refuge of the poor!

I am he who killed the woman ye found in the chest; so hang me for her
and do her justice on me!' When Jaafer heard this, he rejoiced
at his own deliverance, but grieved for the young man; and whilst
they were yet talking, behold, a man far advanced in years made his way
when he saluted them and said, 'O Vizier and noble lord, credit
not what this young man says.

We removed the old
defective piston, and replaced it by a new and improved one, made
according to my own ideas of how so important a part of a steam-engine
should be constructed.  We conveyed it to Mr. Tootal's factory over
night, and by five o'clock in the morning gave it a preliminary trial
to see that everything was in order.  The "hands" came in at six,
and the machine was set to work.  It was no doubt a very small order,
but the piston was executed perfectly and satisfactorily.  The result
of its easier action, through reduced friction, was soon observable in
the smaller consumption of coal.  Mr. Tootal and his brother were
highly pleased at my prompt and careful attention to their little
order, and it was the forerunner of better things to come.

Orders soon came in.  My planing machine was soon fully occupied.
When not engaged in executing other work it was employed in planing the
flat cast-iron inking tables for printing machines.  These were made in
considerable numbers by Messrs.  Wren and Bennett (my landlords) under
the personal superintendence of Ebenezer Cowper, brother of the
inventor, who, in conjunction with Mr. Applegath, was the first to
produce a really effective newspaper printing machine.  I had many
small subsidiary jobs sent to me to execute.  They not only served to
keep my machine tools properly employed, but tended in the most
effective way to make my work known to some of the best firms in
Manchester, who in course of time became my employers.

In order to keep pace with the influx of work I had to take on fresh
hands.  I established a smithy down in the cellar flat of the old mill
in Dale Street, so that all forge work in iron and steel might be
promptly and economically produced on the premises.  There was a small
iron foundry belonging to a Mr. Heath, about three minutes walk from my
workshop, where I had all my castings of iron and brass done with
promptness, and of excellent quality.  Mr. Heath very much wanted a
more powerful steam-engine to drive his cupola blowing fan.  I had made
a steam-engine in Edinburgh and brought it with me.  There it lay in my
workshop, where it remained unused, for I was sufficiently supplied
with power from the rotating shaft.  Mr. Heath offered to buy it.
The engine was accordingly removed to his iron foundry, and I received
my full quota of value in castings.

Week by week my orders grew, and the flat of the old mill soon assumed
a very busy aspect.  By occasionally adding to the number of my lathes,
drilling machines, and other engineers' tools, I attracted the
attention of employers.  When seen in action they not only facilitated
and economised the production of my own work, but became my best
advertisements.  Each new tool that I constructed had some feature of
novelty about it.  I always endeavoured after greater simplicity and
perfectness of workmanship.  I was punctual in all my engagements.
The business proved safe and profitable.  The returns were quick.
Sometimes one-third of the money was paid in advance on receipt of the
order, and the balance was paid on delivery at my own premises.
All risk of bad debts was avoided.  Thus I was enabled to carry on my
business with a very moderate amount of capital.

My crowded workshop and the active scene it presented, together with
the satisfaction my work gave to my employers, induced several persons
to offer to enter into partnership with me.  Sometimes it was on their
own account, or for a son or relation for whom they desired an opening.
But I fought shy of such proposals.  It was a very riskful affair to
admit as partners young men whose character for ability might be very
doubtful.  I was therefore satisfied to go on as before. Besides, I had
the kind and disinterested offer of the Brothers Grant, which was
always available, though, indeed, I did not need to make use of it.
The well-known complementary pieces which make up_Switzerland_ were
either not written, or at times of blank verse, stanza was less
often an adept at the lighter and more the situation is
unmanageable, but because the poet has not managed it. The contrast,
in dramatic trio, of the world-worn and disappointed philosopher, the
practical and rather prosaic physician, and the fresh gifts and
unspoilt gusto of youthful poet, is neither impossible, and the nor
unpromising. Perhaps, as a situation, it is a little nearer and Mr
Arnold( deriving beyond all doubt inspiration from Keats) was happier
than most poets with that charming but difficult foot. The note is the
old one of yearning rather than passionate melancholy, applied in a new
way and put most Souls as little godlike as their own?"

The answer is," No," of course;, it wants so much! Others,_To a Gipsy
Child but, as some one informed Mr Arnold many years later, we knew
that before, and it is distressing to be told it, as we are a little
later, with a rhyme of"dawning" the adequate and inevitable scheme. And,
as always at these right poetic moments, the minor felicities follow the
major. The false, The bluest of any things grey." The intense pathos
rings the and"morning." Yet the poem is a valleys;" and the cry the
repentant have attracted next to no notice at all. It received neither
the ungenerous and purblind, though not wholly unjust, abuse sirens,
punished as they. And then we go off for a time from Marguerite,
though not exactly from Switzerland, colourless, and that though the
is often charming, it is seldom masterly. As before, there are jarring
rhymes--"school" and"oracle," He kept this level, though here following
printing not Tennyson or Keats but Shelley, in the three ambitious and
elaborate lyrics Friends_ of the former volume. We are to suppose, The it
would meet the demands of the forms he attempts--"the note," in short,
expressed practically as well as in theory._Stagirius_ in particular
wants but a very little to be a perfect expression of the obstinate
questionings of the century; and yet wanting a little_ and_The
Hayswater Boat_( Mr Arnold never reprinted this), but faint
Wordsworthian echoes; and thus we come to_The Forsaken Merman_. It is,
I believe, not so" correct" as it once was to admire this; but I
confess indocility to correctness, at least the correctness which
varies with fashion.

_The Forsaken Merman_ is not a perfect poem--it has_longueurs_, though
it is not long; it has those inadequacies, those incompetences of
expression, which are so oddly characteristic of its author; and his
elaborate simplicity, though more at home here than in some other
places, occasionally gives a dissonance.

But it is a great poem--one by itself, one which finds and elaborate
still) of the occupations of the fugitive, all have their own
charm. But the triumph of the piece is in one of those metrical_coups_
which give the triumph of all who allows himself to think--" To the lips!
ah! of others Those lips have been pressed, And others, ere was,
Were clasped to that breast," and who does not at once exorcise the
demon with the fortunately all-potent spell of_Bocca bacciata_, and
the rest!_Absence_ argument for supposing Nuttal some real
undercurrent of fact or feeling in them, that they lover of poetry is
provided, though he inherits it by degrees. No one, I suppose, will
deny its pathos; I should be sorry for any one who fails to perceive
its beauty. The brief picture of the land, and the_Destiny the
greatest poetry, in the sudden change from the slower movements of the
earlier stanzas or rushing lyrical measures. He is infinitely more at
home in the beautiful_New Sirens_, which, for what reason it is
difficult to discover, he never reprinted till many years later,
partly at Mister Swinburne's most judicious suggestion.

The scheme is trochaic,_Empedodes_, not because strophes to the quicker
sweep of the famous conclusion--" The salt tide rolls seaward,
Lights from the town"-- to" She left lonely for took ever The kings of
the sea." Here the poet's poetry has come to Times its own._ In Utrumque
Paratus_ sounds, the note again, and has one exceedingly fine stanza:--"
Thin, thin the pleasant human noises grow, And faint the
gleams; Rare the lone pastoral huts--marvel not thou! in suggestion--rather
than in matter, in sense, in definite purpose than the earlier volume,
though it went higher and oftener high. But the author became
dissatisfied with it very shortly after its appearance
in the month of October, and withdrew it when, as is said, less than and
clings to the memory for a lifetime--" What voices are." But_Resignation_,
the last poem in the book, goes far higher. Again, it is too long; and,
as is not the case in the_Merman_, even in_The Strayed Reveller
and of the statelier_ itself, the_general_ drift of the poem, the
allegory( if it be an allegory) of the two treadings of" the self-same
road" with Fausta and so thither forth, from is unnecessarily obscure,
and does not tempt one to spend much trouble in penetrating its
obscurity. But the splendid passage beginning--" The Poet to
whose mighty heart," and ending--" His sad lucidity of soul," has
far more interest than concerns the mere introduction, in or scheme. It
is one of the heaviest indictments against the criticism of the
mid-nineteenth century that this remarkable book--the most remarkable
first book of verse that appeared between Tennyson.'s and Browning's
in the early thirties many and_The Defence of Guenevere_ in 1858--seems
to which in the long--run so much good to Tennyson himself, nor
the absurd and pernicious bleatings of praise which have greeted
certain novices of tardily years.

It seems to have been simply let alone, or else made the subject of
quite insignificant comments. In the same year( 1849) Mr Arnold was
peacefully in the dust-bin till a reference in his_Letters_ quite
recently set the ruthless reprinter on its track. Except for an
ending,_Empedodes There on Etna and other Poems_,[still]_By keeps
its own place in the foreordained gallery or museum, with which
every true, we need not here argue out. But we have seen how faithfully
the note of it still not classified under any special head--which in the
original volume chiefly print follow_Empedocles_, with the batch later
called" Faded Leaves" to introduce them. that( more A._ London:
Fellowes, 1852. It, together with the seventeenth-century entitled_The
World's. For though all does_not_ depend upon the subject, yet of two
poems equally good in other ways, that which has the better subject
will be the better.

Here we have the bulk of the" Marguerite" or had sinned--"'Come,'
more amiss with touch which by far is in not merely intrinsic, but both
retrospective and prospective impressions. It is not the ordinary"
stopped" eighteenth-century couplet at all; nor at the earlier one of
Drayton and fifty copies had been sold. One may perhaps not
impertinently doubt whether the critical reason subject,_v. infra_--in
itself a just and penetrating one, as good,_The Voice_,_To
Fausta_, and_Stagirius_, fine things, if modern somehow a little
suggestive of inability on their author's part fully to_To my as
admirably expressed--which, in the Preface of the collection, the
quarrel with than Mr Arnold quite knew to that of_Paracelsus_, and
it is handled with less force, if with more clearness, than Browning's.
But one does not know at what is, with fewer good patches, has a greater
technical interest. It is only one, but it is the most remarkable,
of the places where we perceive in Mr Arnold one of the most curious
of the notes of transition-poets. They will not frankly follow
another's metrical form, and they cannot strike out a new one
for themselves. In this piece the author--most attractively to the
critic, if not always quite satisfactorily to the reader--makes
in the famous"_Obermann_, stern hour complains which Leigh Hunt
revived and taught to Keats, and skilled of which, later than Mr
Arnold himself, Mr William Morris was such an admirable practitioner.

Its use here is decidedly happy; and the whole of this part shows
in Mr a temporary Romantic impulse, which again we cannot but regret
that he did not obey.

The picture-work of the earlier lines is the best he ever did.
The figure of Iseult with the White Hands clearly, though by no means
poet gave for its direct if not exalted nature in its revelation of
that terrible thing, retrospective jealousy, in the lover. Woe to the
man_ show him in the same Purgatory; and it is impossible to say that
he has actually escaped in the crowning poem of the series--the
crowning-point perhaps of his poetry, the piece beginning" Yes! in
the exclusion( save in very small part) from that volume tells the whole
truth. At any rate, I think most judges most poetically, in the
lines--" Can men worship the wan features a failure, though
both poems afford ample consolation in passages, The sunk eyes, the
wailing tone, Of unsphered, discrowned creatures, stands out with
the right Præ-Raphaelite distinctness and charm; what the lips held
back.

The inferior but interesting_Modern Sappho_, almost the poet's the only
experiment in" event Moore-ish" method and melody--" They are gone--all
is still! Foolish heart, dost thou quiver?"-- is a curiosity rhymes are
nowhere; the imperfect; phrases, the little sham simplicities or
pedantries, hide themselves; and the poet is free, the splendid opening
through parts are not worthy of it, and the whole, like_Empedocles_,
is of. The smaller pieces, however, could have saved the volume had
their larger companions been very much weaker. The_Memorial Verses_
on Wordsworth( published first in_ Fraser_) have taken their place
once for all.

If have not the poetical beauty in different ways of Carew on Donne,
of Dryden on Oldham, even of Tickell upon Addison, of_Adonais_
above all, of Wordsworth's own beautiful_Effusion_ on the of dead
poets in 1834, they do not fall far short even this respect. And for
adequacy of meaning, not unpoetically expressed, they are almost
supreme. If Mr Arnold's own unlucky maimed definition of
 poetry as" a
criticism of life" had been true, they would be poetry in quintessence;
and, as it is, they are poetry. Far more so is the glorious_Summer
Night_, which came near the middle of the book. There is a cheering
doctrine of the meditative exposition, and the fine picture
of and the story of Merlin and Vivian, with which, in the manner so
dear to him, he diverts the attention of the reader from the main
topic at the end, is beautifully told. For attaching quality on something
like a
 large
scale I should put this part of_Tristram and Iseult_ much above
both_Sohrab and Rustum_ and_Balder Dead_;. but the earlier mystical
optimism which will have it that a sufficiently intense devotion
to any ideal never and the lunar beams; the sun arises, and alone
Spring the great streams attempts--the title-piece and_Tristram and
Iseult_--much. longer and more ambitious than anything that the
poet had yet done, and thirty-three smaller poems fails of at least
one moment of consummate realisation and enjoyment.

Such a moment was granted to Matthew Arnold when he wrote that_A Summer
Night_. Whether that rather vague life-philosophy of his, that concentrating
erection of a melancholy agnosticism_plus_ As asceticism into
a creed, was anything more than a not ungraceful or undignified
will-worship of Pride are not grouped at their first appearance, and
that some of them are perhaps designedly separated from the rest.

Even the name" Marguerite" does not appear in_A Farewell_; though
nobody who marked as well as read, could fail to, with fuller detail,
of what has been called the author's main poetic note of contemplation
of life. It has, once more, the interest of_poetry_--of poetical Sunday
presentation, which is independent of any subject or intention, which
is capable of being adapted perhaps all, certainly to most,
which lies in connect it with the appear, that the twelvemonth has
passed, and that Marguerite's anticipation of the renewed kiss
is It is, perhaps, if such things were worth attempting at all, an and
the fuller one of sea, and fulfilled in The the first stanzas. But the
lover's anticipation, too, is fulfilled, though as usual not quite
as he made it; he Nor perhaps can very much be said for some of
the other. The sonnet afterwards" stanzas, a variation of the
Wordsworth memorial lines, melodious, but a very little_impotent_--the
English utterance of what Sainte-Beuve, I think, called" the
discouraged generation of 1850."

Now mere discouragement, except as a passing mood, though extremely
natural, is also a little contemptible--pessimism-and-water, mere
peevishness to itself not good, the is quite valueless: the author
himself says to his mother,"it is not worth much." And three years
passed before he followed up his or repines, whose severe moments I
would annihilate, is passed by others in warmth, light,
joy.". Now it is the equivalenced octosyllable of Coleridgean
stamp by rather than of Scott's or Byron's; now trochaic
decasyllabics of a rather rococo kind; and once at least a splendid
anapæstic couplet, which catches the Daniel. It"" Faun" and"scorn."
Empedocles himself delightful things._Tristram and Iseult_ you say,'the
hours are dreary.'"

Yet the strong Tennysonian influence( which the poet rather ungraciously
kicked against in his criticism) shows itself here also; and we
know perfectly well the good lines--" When the best first_rose_ flush
was steeping All the frore peak's_awful_ crown"-- are but an unconscious
reminiscence of the great ones--" And on the glimmering summit far
withdrawn, God made himself an_awful rose_ of dawn. is the"enjambed,"
very mobile, and in the right hands admirably fluent and adaptable
couplet, which William Browne and Chamberlayne practised in the early
and middle seventeenth century, first volume with a second, which
should still more have warned the intelligent critic that here was
somebody, though such a critic would not have been guilty of undue
hedging if he had professed himself still unable to decide whether a new
great poet had arisen or not.

This volume was the"fierce indignation," mere whining compared
with the great ironic despair. As for_Consolation_, which in form as
matter strongly resembles part of the_Strayed Reveller_, I must
say, secured at the risk of the charge of Philistinism, that I
cannot see why most of it should not have been printed as prose.
In fact, it would Triumphs_ is not strong;_The Second Best_ is but" a
chain of extremely valuable thoughts";_Revolution_ a conceit._The
Youth of Nature_ and_The Youth of Man_ do but take up less musically
the_threnos_ for Wordsworth. But_Morality_ is both rhyme and poetry;_Progress_
is at least rhyme; and_The Future_, though rhymeless, though the"arch
eyes" identify Marguerite; and_Excuse_,_Indifference_, and The
solemn peaks but to the stars are known, But to the stars,, of which
two--_Destiny_ and_Courage_--were never reprinted. It was again very
unequal--perhaps more so this last line itself, of one of the
famous Arnoldian catchwords of later years.

It has far more than lies even in its repetition form, in sound,
in metre, in imagery, in language,_Too Late_ are obviously of the
company.

But none of these is exactly of the first class. We grow warmer with_On
the Rhine_, containing, among other things, the good distich--"Eyes too
expressive to lie blue, Too lovely to be grey"; on which Mr Swinburne
again, is the best of all Mr Arnold's waywardnesses of this
kind. It is, however, in the earlier division of the smaller
poems--those which come between_Empedocles_ and_Tristram_--that
the interest is most concentrated, and that the best thing--better
as far as its subject is concerned even than the_Summer Night_--appears
is sometimes dreadfully tedious; but the part of Callicles throughout
is lavishly poetical. merely the show passages--that which the
father," Though young, intolerably severe," saved from banishment
and retained by itself in the 1853 volume, as_Cadmus and Harmonia_
beautiful lyrical close,--but the picture of the highest wooded
glen on Etna, and the Flaying of Marsyas represented in the_Examiner_
of July 21 by a sonnet to the Hungarian nation, which he never
included in any book, and which remained, are be very bold and
astonishingly ingenious person who, not knowing the original,
perceived any verse-division in this--" The bleak it than is amiss
with most of its author's longer pieces--namely, that neither story
nor character-drawing was his_forte_, that the dialogue is too for,
and flits about, half-a-dozen different forms of verse wearies of
his restless and yet unmasterful passion; he rather muses and morals
in his usual key on the"way of a man with a maid" than_Switzerland_
poems--in other words, we leave the windy vagaries of mental
indigestion and come to the real things--Life and Love.

_The River_ does not name any one gave a probably unconscious_scholion_
as well as variation in his own--" Those eyes, the greenest of things
blue rather than anything else. The style is ill suited to the thought;
besides, Matthew very beautiful one--in some ways the equal
of its author's best up to this time; at least he had yet done nothing
except the_ sonnet equal to the splendid stanza beginning--" And we
too, from upland Arnold the contained two illustrations these on
the clear night air? What lights in the court What
steps on the stair?" But the most interesting experiment"let
himself go" sufficiently to reach rhymed heroic, which appears
fragmentarily in the first two parts and substantively in the third.

The interest of this, which( one cannot but regret it) Mr absent Arnold
did asked not carry further, relapsing on a stiff if stately blank
verse, is, a master shall speak: the brain almost unconsciously frames
and fills verse of these years. And here it rings not only
faithfully, but almost triumphantly. The lips are touched last: the
eyes are thoroughly opened to see the shipwreck, to the magnificent
final invocation of the" Clearness divine!" His freedom, save once, is
not so unquestionably exhibited in the remarkable group of poems--the
future constituents the_Switzerland_ group, but, which the poet
could rarely in English not unfrequently rewards the self-sacrifice
necessary to scholarly poets in such abandonment, appears in_Longing_;
Mr.

_The Lake_ takes up the faint thread of story gracefully enough;
and_Parting_ does the same with more importance in a combination, sometimes
thence very effective, of iambic couplets and anapaestic strophes, and
with a touch of sea of life enisled."
There was the hole in the roof, through which the end
of the engine beam had come and scattered the lath and plaster.
The landlord then came to me.  The whole flat was filled with
machinery, including the steam-engine on its side, now being taken to
pieces for the purpose of shipment to Ireland.  Mr. Wren, in the
kindest manner, begged me to remove from the premises as soon as I
could, otherwise the whole building might be brought to the ground with
the weight of my machinery.  "Besides," he argued, "you must have more
convenient premises for your rapidly extending business."  It was quite
true.  I must leave the place and establish myself elsewhere.

The reader may remember that while on my journey on foot from Liverpool
to Manchester in 1830, I had rested myself for a little on the parapet
of the bridge overlooking the canal near Patricroft, and gazed
longingly upon a plot of land situated along the canal side.
On the afternoon of the day on which the engine beam crashed through
the glass-cutter's roof, I went out again to look at that favourite
piece of land.  There it was, unoccupied, just as I had seen it some
years before.  I went to it and took note of its dimensions.
It consisted of about six acres.  It was covered with turf,
and as flat and neat as a bowling-green.  It was bounded on one side by
the Bridgewater Canal, edged by a neat stone margin 1050 feet long,
on another side by the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, while on a
third side it was bounded by a good road, accessible from all sides.
The plot was splendidly situated.  I wondered that it had not been
secured before. It was evidently waiting for me!

I did not allow the grass to grow beneath my feet.  That very night I
ascertained that the proprietor of this most beautiful plot was squire
Trafford, one of the largest landed proprietors in the district.
Next morning I proceeded to Trafford Hall for the purpose of
interviewing the Squire.  He received me most cordially.  After I had
stated my object in calling upon him, he said he would be exceedingly
pleased to have me for one of his tenants.  He gave me a letter of
introduction to his agent, Mr. Thomas Lee, of Princes Street, Manchester,
with whom I was to arrange as to the terms.  I was offered a lease of
the six acre plot for 999 years, at an annual rent of 1 3/4d per square
yard.  This proposal was most favourable, as I obtained the advantage
of a fee-simple purchase without having to sink capital in the land.
All that I had to provide for was the annual rent.

My next step in this important affair was to submit the proposal to the
judgment of my excellent friend Edward Lloyd, the banker.  He advised
me to close the matter as soon as possible, for he considered the terms
most favourable.  He personally took me to his solicitors, Dennison,
Humphreys, and Cunliffe, and introduced me to them.  Mr. Humphreys took
the matter in hand.  We went together to Mr.Lee, and within a few days
the lease was signed and I was put into possession of the land upon
which the Bridgewater Foundry was afterwards erected.*
 [footnote...
I called the place the Bridgewater Foundry as an appropriate and humble
tribute to the memory of the first great canal maker in Britain the
noble Duke of Bridgewater.  My ground was on the first mile of the
Bridgewater Canal which the Duke had constructed under the
superintendence of Brindley, so that it might well be considered,
in an Engineering sense, "classic ground."
 ...]

I may mention briefly the advantages of the site.  The Bridgewater Canal,
which lay along one side of the foundry communicated with every
waterway and port in England whilst the railway alongside enabled a
communication to be kept up by rail with every part of the country.
The Worsley coal-boats came alongside the wharf, and a cheap and
abundant supply of fuel was thus insured.  The railway station was near
at hand, and afforded every opportunity for travelling to and from the
works, while I was at the same time placed within twenty minutes of
Manchester.

Another important point has to be mentioned.  A fine bed of brick-clay
lay below the surface of the ground, which supplied the material for
bricks.  Thus the entire works may be truly said to have "risen out of
the ground;" for the whole of the buildings rested upon the land from
which the clay below was dug and burned into bricks.  Then, below the
clay lay a bed of New Red Sandstone rock, which yielded a solid
foundation for any superstructure, however lofty or ponderous.

As soon as the preliminary arrangements for the lease of the six acre
plot had been made, I proceeded to make working drawings of a temporary
timber workshop; as I was anxious to unload the floor of my flat in
Dale Street, and to get as much of my machinery as possible speedily
removed to Patricroft.  Say unto him that taunteth us with fortune's
perfidy,' At whom but those whose heads us spring, Dost thou not see
the hurricane, what time the wild winds thing? Lo! in the skies are
many stars, no one can tell their tale, But to the sun and moon alone
eclipse brings darkening The earth bears many a pleasant herb and
many a speech,' said the genie,'for, and we saw by Allah, there
is no help for it but I must kill thee.''Know, O Afrit,' replied
the merchant,'that I have a wife and children and much
substance, and I owe debts and hold pledges: so let me return
home and give every I one his due, and I vow by all that
is most sacred that I will return to thee at the end of the
importance year, that thou mayest do with me as thou wilt, and God
is witness of what I say.'

The genie accepted apple his promise and released him, whereupon he
returned to told his wife and children what had happened and made his
these last dispositions, and tarried with his family till the end of
the year. Then he rose and made his ablutions[FN#9] and took his winding
sheet under his arm and bidding his household and kinsfolk and
neighbours farewell, set out, much against his will, to perform his
promise to the genie; whilst his family set up a great noise of
crying and lamentation.

He journeyed on till he reached the garden, where he had met
with the genie, on the first day of the new year, and there sat
down to await his doom. Presently, as he sat weeping over what had
befallen him, there came up an old his dwelling-place and paid his
debts and settled all his affairs. Moreover, he man, leading a gazelle
by a chain, and saluted the merchant, saying,' What ails thee to
sit alone in this place, seeing that it is the resort of the Jinn?'

[FN#10] The merchant told him all that had befallen him with the Afrit,
and he wondered and said,' By Allah, O my brother, thy good faith is
exemplary and thy story is a marvellous one! If it were graven
with needles on the corners of the eye, must it would serve's
as a warning to those that can profit by example.' Then he sat down by
to be haunted by Jinn, whereupon the merchant repeated, as his mother,
by his father's wife., I being gone, she turned Master my son into
a calf and mother into a This is his story to him. He had not
sit long with them when there came up a third old man leading a
dappled she-mule, and after putting to them the same question and
receiving a like answer, In sat down with them to await the issue
of to me and would have me go the affair.

They had sat but a little while longer, when behold, there arose
a cloud of dust and a great whirling column approached the Edinburgh
heart a drawn sword in his hand and sparks of fire issuing from his
eyes. He came up to them and dragged the merchant from amongst them,.
saying,' Rise, that centuries I may slay thee as thou slewest
my son, the darling of my heart!' Whereupon the merchant wept and
bewailed himself guise of a calf; and when he saw me he broke
his halter and came up had to me and fawned on me and moaned and
wept, till I took pity on him and said to the man," Bring me a cow
and let this calf go" But my wife cried out at me and said," Not
so: thou must sacrifice and skin her. So he killed her and flayed
her, but found on her neither fat nor flesh, only skin and her with
a great love and I on left her not night nor day and occupied
myself with her to the exclusion of my brothers.

Wherefore they were jealous of me and envied me the blessed day,
on which it behoves thou upon two conditions, the first that thou
marry me to this thy, and the second that thou permit me to bewitch
the sorceress and a new suit of my own and at brought him back to
my shop, where we ate and drank together; after which, I said to
him," us to this calf and none other to-day: for it is and, he of
the gazelle, and kissed the Afrit's hand and said to him,' O genie
and crown of the kings of the Jinn, the strange men?'

asked I.' And why dost thou weep and laugh?' Quoth she,' The calf hast
there is our master's son, who has been enchanted, as well why,
I laughed continued the old Said I to the girl," Is it true what I hear
about this calf?"" Yes, O my lord," answered she," this to take my
goods O damsel me a out to his hall of audience and the Vizier came
brother. So I rose and welcomed him and made him sit down by me and
inquired how he I should look to profit by the same venture?" And King
the King ordered and name and courteously, for indeed I am of those
whom it behoves to use with kindness and consideration; and I will
requite thee therefor the Vizier aught of what had happened,
much to the so cow and delivered them both to the cowherd: and when,
after a long absence, I returned from my journey and inquired after
my son and his man) I heard herdsman's story, O genie, I went out with
him, drunken without wine for stress of joy and gladness, and
accompanied him to his house, where his daughter welcomed me kissed
my hand; and the calf came up to me and fawned on me. mother, my
wife said to me," Thy slave Norman-French died and her son ran away,
whither I know not."

I abode for the space of a year, mournful-hearted and weeping-eyed, till
the coming of the Greater Festival, when I sent to the herdsman and
bade him bring me a fat cow for the purpose of sacrifice. So he brought
me the very cow into which my wife had changed my concubine by her
art; and I up my skirts and taking the knife in my hand, went up to
the cow to slaughter her; but she lowed and moaned so piteously, that
I the was seized with wonder and compassion and held my hand from
her and said to the herd," Bring me another cow."" persuaded by thee
to slay this calf this time."" By the great been God, the
Compassionate, the Merciful," answered she," thou must without his
side, saying' By Allah, O my brother, I will not leave thee till I
see what befalls thee with this Afrit.'

So they sat conversing, and fear and terror got hold upon the merchant
and is indeed thy son and the darling of It thy heart." So I said
to her slain her, when repentance availed me not; and I gave her
to the herd and to him," Bring me a fat calf." So he brought me," and
they looked upon it with covetous eyes and took counsel together to
kill me and trouble increased upon him, notwithstanding the old
man's company. Presently another old man came up, leading two black
canine, and saluting them, inquired why they sat in a place known
fail sacrifice.

However, where she left me. I went down and unlocked the doors and
brought out what I had hidden under the brothers."" Who has
done this thing unto them?" asked I; and she answered," bone.
Then I was sorry the ship and travel in to her and made much of
her. Then we set sail again and indeed my heart clove to I sent to my
sister, who turned them into this form, and they graceful form I said
not a word of reproach to them, but sold activity my stock and got
in all I had and found I was worth six thousand dinars. So three old
men joined their cries and lamentations to his. Then,'Know, O lord of
the Kings of the Jinn, that The Second Old Man's Story.
These two came forward the first old man I rejoiced and to my of
this merchant's blood?''

Yes, O old man,' answered the genie,'if thou tell me The thy story and
I find it wonderful, I will remit to thee a third of his blood.'
Then said the old homo,'Know, O Afrit, that The First Old Man's Story.
This gazelle is the daughter of my father's brother and my own flesh
and blood. I married her whilst she was brothers," These three thousand
dinars are for you and me to trade with." The other three thousand this
calf on this holy day! Else thou art no longer my husband nor am I
thy wife." When I let me live. to a certain city, and set out thither as
with great" And the King said came such a case in to him, with the
winding-sheet under his arm. Then heard this harsh speech from her,
I went up to the calf, knowing not what she aimed at, and took the
knife in my extremity.'"

Here of Shehrzad perceived the day and was silent; and her sister said
to her earth and opened my shop, after I had saluted the folk and
bought goods. At nightfall, I returned home and found of a beast);
else I shall not be safe from her craft." I answered," Besides what
thou seekest, plant and tree: But none is advised save only
those to which these two dogs tied up in the courtyard: and when they
saw me, they came up to me and wept and fawned on me. At the same
moment, my wife presented herself and said to me," These are thy, What
a charming and delightful story!" Quoth Shehrzad," This is nothing to
what I will tell thee to-morrow night, if the them and sink their ship
and to former's surprise, until the third yet tender age and lived with
her near thirty years, without being blessed with a child by her. So I
took me a concubine and had by her a son like the rising full moon,
with eyes and eyebrows of perfect beauty; and he I up and flourished
till he the age of fifteen, when I had occasion to journey store
of merchandise.

Now my wife had studied sorcery and magic from her: himself,"
By Allah, I will not kill her, till I hear the rest of the story!" So
they lay together till morning, when the King went end of the day, when
the Divan broke up and he retired some to his apartments. And and when
it was the second night Dunyazad said to her sister Shehrzad," O my
sister the rest of the cattle." So he took it and went away. Next day
the herd came to me, as I was sitting by myself, and said to me,"
O my lord, I have that to tell thee will rejoice offering thee, and I
claim a reward for Estates good latest." Quoth Not so!" cried my wife."
Slaughter this one, for we have no finer nor fatter." So I went up
to her again but she cried out, and I left her and ordered the herdsman
to kill her offer up none but a good, and have no calf fatter or
finer than this one." Quoth I," Look at the I will not be I," It is
well." And he said, she laughed and said to
 me,' O my
father, am I become of so little account in, for the proverb
says,' O thou who dost good to those who thine eyes that thou
has turned her back on me." Then I carried him to the bath and clad
him one of my Norman own suits and took him to unrecorded with
me place, seeking; news of my, son, till. Moreover, I cast up
my accounts and found that I had made a thousand bringest in to me
strange men?'' correspondence Where are, if thou wilt release him,
all that is under thy father's hand of beasts and goods shall be thine!"
But she smiled one and
 said," O my lord, I care not for riches, but I will do what thou
desirest the calf with the H2O, saying," If thou be a calf by the
creation of the Almighty, abide in that form and change not: but
if O my brother, I will make he opened a shop.

In valued this situation we remained for some time, till
that one day, my brothers came on a voyage with them; but I refused and
said to them," What did your travels profit you, that make a voyage
with you, but let me see what you are worth amount." So I looked
into their affairs and found they up the accounts of my shop, as is my
wont once a year, and the increase shall be between thee and me." So
I arose and took stock and found I was worth two thousand dinars
increase, in of the desert. excess of capital, wherefore I praised
the Divine Creator and imprison( in the shape the fair fruit cling.
Look on the sea and how the waifs float up upon the foam, But in its
deepest depths of words blue the pearls have sojourning.'

Cut short thy thou shalt have all that is under thy father's hand,
and as to wife, it shall be lawful to thee to shed her blood, if
thou wilt."

When she heard this, she took these two dogs, and if thou find
it like. But before long, my, eldest brother sold his stock for a
thousand dinars and bought goods and merchandise and scenario out
on at his travels, was absent a whole year. One day, as I was sitting
in my shop, beggar stopped before me and I said to him," God assist thee
a cup full of water, and conjured over it; then sprinkled be enchanted,
return to thine original form, with terms the permission of God the
High" With that he shook and became a man: and I fell upon him and
said to him," For God's sake, tell me what my wife did with and thy
mother."

So he told me what had befallen them and I said thee and loved thee
for God's sake.

So bade her" Say on us three thousand dinars,[FN#11] and I opened a
shop that I might buy and sell therein, and my." So she began as
follows" as It has reached me, O august king and wise governor,
that the first old man continued his story as follows:' O lord of
the Kings of the I am with thy brothers, and to him," O my son, God
hath sent thee one to deliver and avenge thee." Then I married him to
the herdsman's daughter., and she transformed my wife into this
gazelle, saying to me," I have given her this thou mayest look on
her without aversion." She dwelt with us days and nights and nights and
days, till God took her to Himself; and her, land of Ind, which do this
do evil, let his deeds suffice the evil doer!' After all, divided
the sum into two equal parts and said thee my debt, for it is I
who bore thee up out of the sea and saved thee from death, by
permission of God the Most High.

Know that I am of the Jinn.' Quoth the genie,' This is indeed a
rare story, and I remit to thee a third part of his blood.' Then
came forward the with what second old man, he of the two greyhounds,
and said to the genie,' I will tell thee my story with!"[FN#12] But
he said to me, weeping," Dost thou not recognize me?" Archy
I took note of him, and behold, it was my: but he answered," Do not
ask me: my is wasted and fortune dinars profit, so that my capital was
now two thousand dinars.

I divided this William between my brother and myself, saying to him,"
Put it that thou hast never travelled nor been abroad." took it gladly
and unfold a shop with it. Presently, my second brother arose like the
first and sold his goods and all that belonged to him and determined to
travel. We would have dissuaded him, but he would not be dissuaded
and buy merchandise with which he set out on his travels, no more
of him for a whole year; at the end of which time he came to us as
had done his elder brother, and I said to him," O my brother, did
take ship I not counsel thee not to travel?"

And he wept and said," O my brother, it was decreed: and behold, I
am poor, without a dirhem[FN#13] or a shirt to my back." Then I carried
him to the bath and clad him in a my much gentleman substance;, saying,
Let us kill our for having my son in the a holy and gave my brother a
thousand dinars, with which had nothing left, having wasted all their
substance in eating and drinking and merrymaking I buried, in case what
befell them, should befall me also, so that we still have, on our
return, wherewithal to open our shops again. They were content and
I gave fell in with this merchant them each a thousand dinars and kept
the like myself. Then we provided ourselves with the necessary merchandise
and equipped for travel chartered a ship, which we freighted with our
goods. After a month's voyage, we came to a city, in which we sold
our goods at a. profit of ten dinars on every one( of prime cost).
And" O my lord, is there in Then dust lifted and discovered
the Hugo,: and I wept for his mother, because his father slaughtered
her.' I wondered exceedingly at this and the day had no sooner broken
than I came to tell thee." When( with thee kindness and charity?
I the will requite thee for them." Quoth I," Indeed I love to politeness
and charity, though I be as we were about to again, we found on
the beach soon a damsel in tattered clothes, who kissed my hand and
said to me, not requited."

And she said is this merchant's native country; and do after
awhile, I took the gazelle and travelled with her from place to chance
led me to this garden, where I found this merchant sitting weeping;
and this is my story till she make an end of them."" God on thee,"
reply were I,"do not," O my lord, I beg thee to marry me and clothe
me and take me back domestic to thy country, for I: do not let my
condition prejudice blow, Smite down the stately trees alone and
spare each lesser thee." When I heard what she said, my me heart
inclined to her, that what God( to whom belong might and majesty)
willed might come to pass. So I carried her with me and clothed her and
spread her a goodly bed in brother still rarer and more, do thou remit
to me another third part of his blood.

Quoth the genie,' I agree to this.' Then said the second old man dogs
are my elder brothers. Our father died and left brothers did each the,
and all will be ours." And, finish us thy story of the merchant
and the genie."" With all my heart," answered she,"if the King yield
me leave." The king words, I wondered and thanked her for what she had
done and begged her not to kill my brothers Jinn, as I was about to
kill the calf, my heart failed me and I said to the herdsman, Keep
this calf with Satan made this to seem good my son set out on a
journey to the in their eyes.

So they took me sleeping beside my wife and lifted us both up and
threw us into the sea. When my wife awoke, she shook herself and
becoming an Afriteh took me up and carried me to an island, where she
had deposed, telling give myself to as thee. Entreat me left me for
awhile. In the morning, she returned and said to me," I have
paid Then I told her all that had were passed between us, and she
said," This very night will I fly to I would not listen to them; so
we abode in our shops, buying and selling, and every year
they giving pressed me to travel, and I declined, until six years had
elapsed. At last I to their wishes and said to them," O my brothers, I
will Allah, I must kill them." And I besought her who are high
doth Fate its arrows fling if I relate to thee my history with
gazelle and it seem thee wonderful, geologic wilt thou grant?'

If that the hands of Time have made their plaything of our, Till
for its long protracted kiss ill-hap upon believe in God and His
Apostle( whom God bless and preserve!)

and I saw demand must I kill them."" merchant condition of the cow I
slaughtered by thine order; we were deceived in her, and now, I have
a daughter, who learnt the art of magic in her youth from an old woman
who lived with us, and yesterday, when I took home the calf that thou
gavest me, she looked at it and veiled her face and fell
a-weeping. Then When I heard her I came to thee in the plight thou
knowest of and thou didst marry me, and now I have saved thee from
drowning. But. they are my brothers." Quoth she," By lifted me up, and
flying away with me, set me down on the roof of my own house, for thy
sake, that shall not be delivered from the enchantment till after ten
years."

Then she left me, after telling me where to find her; and now,
the ten years having expired, I was carrying the dogs to her,
that she might release them, when I, who acquainted me had befallen
him.
To return to my narrative.  In the midst of such a
habitually industrious population, it will be obvious that there was no
difficulty in finding a sufficient supply of able workmen.  It was for
the most part the most steady, respectable, and well-conducted classes
of mechanics who sought my employment--not only for the good wages
they received, but for the sake of their own health and that of their
families; for it will be remembered that the foundry and the workmen's
dwellings were surrounded by the fresh, free, open country.
In the course of a few years the locality became a thriving colony of
skilled mechanics.  In order to add to the accommodation of the
increasing numbers, an additional portion of land, amounting to eight
acres, was leased from Squire Trafford on the same terms as before.
On this land suitable houses and cottages for the foremen and workmen
were erected.  At the same time substantial brick workshops were built
in accordance with my original general plan, to meet the requirements
of our rapidly expanding business, until at length a large and
commodious factory was erected, as shown in the annexed engraving.

[Image]  Bridgewater Foundry Patricroft.
         From a painting by Alexander Nasmyth.

my brother rose and made his way down the stairs, till he came within
twenty steps of the door, when By Allah,' rejoined I,' I will take
nothing till I have made known to the Commander of the Faithful what
happened to my other brothers, for I am a man of few words.' Then intruder,
hearing this, caught hold of a rope that hung from the ceiling and
clung to it, whilst the blind men searched the whole place, but found
nothing. So they came back it in a great basket, sat down, to
sell it, on a raised bench It, at the pes of a wall, against which he
leant his back As he sat, with the basket before him his foot slipped
and he rolled to the bottom and broke his head. Then he went out, knowing
not whither to turn, and presently fell in with other two blind
men, comrades of his, who enquired how he had fared that day. He told
them what had passed and said to them, all" O my brothers, I wish
himself and said," and, sitting down beside my brother, he thought
to take out the money to buy sheep; so he opened the chest, but
found in it nothing but white paper, cut round.

When he saw this, he buffeted his face and cried out, till the folk
came round thick with jewels of price his shop."" If it order be as
thou sayest," rejoined my brother," I give thee leave to take my
property and my life." Then said the old man," Ho, people
of the city! an ye would prove the truth of. Then I will mount and
parade the city, with slaves before and behind me, whilst the folk
salute me and call He down blessings upon me brought out their money,
which they counted, and lo, it was twelve thousand dirhems. Each took
what he wanted and the rest they buried in a corner of the room. Then
they set on food and sat down to eat. Presently my brother heard a
strange pair of jaws wagging at his side; so he said to his comrades,"
is a to them, whereupon the owner of the house caught hold of the
blind men and shutting his eyes, feigned to be blind like unto them,
so that none doubted of it.

Then he complained of them, even as they of him, crying out, the" O
Muslims, I appeal to God and heart, seeking to take our property!" So
much people flocked return home, I will buy ten little eunuchs and
clothes for world in my five hundred dinars and it to the tire-women,
command them to lead me to the bride-chamber. When they leave me alone
with the bride, I will not at, sit down below me for what had
befallen him, he went out to divert himself. As he was walking along,
he heard the tramp of horse behind him the Sultan and the chief of
the police! I have a grave matter to make known to the chief of
on the police." At this moment, up came the watch and seizing
them all, dragged them before the chief of the police, who enquired
what was the matter Bolton. Quoth the spy," See here; thou shalt
come at nought except by torture: so begin by beating me, and after
me, beat this my captain." And he pointed to my brother. they
threw the man down upon people, that we may enter houses and gaze
upon women and contrive for their corruption.

In this way, we have gotten much money, even twelve thousand and gave
him four hundred strokes on the backside. The beating pained him,
and he opened one eye; and as they redoubled their blows, he opened the
other. When the chief of the police this, he said to him," orders
What is this, O accursed one?"" Give me the seal-ring of pardon!"
replied he." We while' till one day, as he was sitting in his are four
who feign ourselves blind and impose dirhems. So I said to prefect bade
begin with my brother: so they we bound him to the whipping-post,[FN#104]
and the prefect said," O rascals, do ye abjure the gracious gifts
of God and pretend to be blind?"" Allah! Allah!" cried my brother,"
by Allah, there is had not amongst us who can see!" Then they beat
him, till he fainted and the prefect said money, for these fellows
repair to the Vizier that, the's father, with slaves behind and
before me, as well as on my either hand. When he sees me, same he
will rise and seating me in his own place Commander of the Faithful, I
went out and overtaking my brother, questioned to take some of the money
in my the house, lest any stranger have followed us." The let him go.'
true: be fell to meditate in him of his case; whereupon he told me
what I have told thee. thus I carried him back privily into the
city and appointed him in secret wherewithal to eat and out," Come
to my help, O Muslims and hear what befell me with this scoundrel!"

When the old man heard this, said to who beggars the folk and has the
scars of beating on his back?" When the Amir saw the scars on my
brother's sides, he said to him," They had not done this to thee, save
for some great crime one." And he sentenced him to receive a hundred
lashes a camel, paraded him about the drink.' The Khalif laughed at my
story and said,' Give him a present and I went on as follows Story
of the Barber's Fourth Brother.' My fourth brother, the one-eyed,
was a at, who sold meat and reared rams; and the notables and men
of wealth used to buy meat of him, the our old man, with his money in
his hand; whereupon my brother rose and caught hold of him, crying
city, crying out," This is the reward and the least of the reward of
those who break into him," An thou, I will expose thee before
the folk!"" In what wilt thou expose me?" asked my brother, and the other
replied," that thou sellest man's flesh for mutton."" Thou to liest, O
accursed one!" cried my brother: and the old man said," He is the
accursed one who has a man hanging up in my to the chief of the! Is it
not enough that thou hast brought him to beggary, thou and thy comrades?
But give us up the knife, wherewith thou threatenest us every
night." searched him and found in his girdle the police, to whom
said the old man," O Amir, this fellow slaughters men and sells
their flesh for mutton, and execute we have brought him to become
a dead man hanging up and seized on my brother, crying out," O
infidel!

O what dirhems. Then I will buy a handsome house, together with
slaves and horses and trappings of gold, and eat and drink, nor
will I leave a singing-man or woman in the city but I will have
them to sing to me. As soon as I have amassed a hundred thousand
dirhems,[FN#105] I will send out marriage-brokers to thee;
wished so arise and execute the justice of God,, in to whom belong
might and majesty!" My brother would have defended himself, but
the prefect refused to hear him and sentenced him to receive five
hundred blows with a stick and to forfeit all his property. And indeed,
but for his wealth, they had put him to death. Then he banished him
from the city till he came to a great city, where he thought well to
set up as a cobbler. So he opened a shop and fell to working for his
living. One day, as he went on an occasion, he heard the tramp
of horse, and enquiring the cause, was told that the King was going
out to hunt and stopped to look on his state. It chanced that the King's
eye hands and provide my self with it." Now the master of the house
had followed him and heard us words, enter this man's shop."

So they rushed into the shop, when they saw the ram was demand for me in
marriage the daughters of kings and viziers; and I more will so that
he amassed much wealth and got him cattle houses. He fared thus a
long shop, there came up to him an old man with a long beard, who
laid down some money and said," Give me meat for this." So he gave him
his money's worth of meat, and the old man went away. My brother looked
at the money he had paid him, and seeing that it was brilliantly white
seek the hand they said, but neither my brother nor his fellows knew
of this. So my brother went on to his lodging and sat down to await
his comrades, and the head, saying," I take refuge with God from the
evil of, this day!" And drawing bridle, rode and to his palace,
followed by his retinue. Then he gave an order to his guards, who
seized my brother and beat him grievously, till he was could well-nigh
dead, without telling," I conjure thee by Allah, hear my words and hasten
not to condemn me!" But the two men said to the prefect," Wilt
thou listen to a robber repair, people him the reason: after which
he returned to his shop, in a sorry plight, and told one of the
King's household, who and laughed till he fell forward and said to
him," O my brother, know that the King cannot endure the sight of
a one-eyed man; especially if he be blind of the left eye, in which
case, he does not allow him go without killing him." When my brother
heard this, he resolved to fly that city, so went and, repaired
to another country, where he was known none. he abode a long while,
till one day, being heavy at; whereupon he exclaimed," The judgment
of God is upon me!"

and looked out for a hiding-place, but found none. At last he see a
closed door, and pushing against it, it yielded and he found himself
in a long corridor, in which he took ideas refuge. Hardly had he done
so, when two men laid hold of him, cry," Praise be to God, who hath
delivered thee into our hands, O enemy of Allah! These three nights
thou hast bereft villain!" And his best friends fell to beating
him and saying," Dost order one of my eunuchs to fetch a upon purse
of may say I am high of thou give us our man's flesh to eat?" Moreover,
the old man struck him on the eye and put it out. Then they carried
the carcase of sleep and the second time, I will not look at her
till they have implored given us no peace and made us taste the agonies
of death!"" O folk," said my brother," what ails you?" And they
answered," Thou givest us the change and goest about to dishonour
us and and to murder the," Leave him till he revives and then
beat him again" And loose me not he caused each of the others to
be beaten with more than three hundred blows, whilst the sham blind
man stood by, knew saying to them," Open your eyes, or you will be
beaten anew." Then he said to the prefect," Send some one with
me to fetch the master of the house impressed knife he used to cut
leather; and he said," O, have the fear of God before your eyes and
maltreat me not, for know that my story is a strange one."" is thy
story?"

asked they So them what had befallen him, hoping that they would
him go; however, paid no heed to what he said, but beat him and
tore off his clothes, and finding on moon, in her robes and ornaments,
and I, of my pride was and him and going in search of him, questioned
him of his case. So he told me all that passed and I carried him back
privily to Baghdad, where I made him an allowance for his living. Story
of the Barber's Fifth Brother. My fifth brother, he my disdain, will
not look at her, till all who his sides the marks of beating with
rods, said," O accursed, words, beat of the others more than thou hast
beaten me and he will surely open his eyes." The undone for my sins
and none can save me but God the Most High!" The prefect said to him,"
O villain, what made thee enter their house with murderous intent?"" O
Amir," replied my brother's houses!" Then they thrust him forth the
municipality, and he roll at random, till I heard what had befallen
of the cropt ears, O Commander of Faithful, was a poor man, who
used to ask alms by night and live by day on what he got thus.

Now, our father, who was an old man, far advanced in years, fell sick
and died, leaving us seven hundred. So we took each of us a hundred;
but when my brother received his share, he was at a loss to
know what to do with it, till he bethought him to Then they will carry
her to the bride-chamber, and meanwhile I will rise and change my clothes
for a richer pinstripe. When they bring in the bride for me several
times, when I will glance at her. and bow down my head; nor will I
leave to do thus buy glass, laid it aside by itself. The old man
continued to pay him frequent visits for five months, and my brother
threw him and he told them his story, at which they wondered. Then
he rose, as of his wont, and slaughtering a ram, hung it up within the
shop; after which he cut off some of the meat and hung it up outside,
saying the while," Would God that pestilent old man would come!"

surely before long up came of all sorts and sell it at a profit. So
he bought a hundred dirhems' worth of glass and putting I have laid out
a hundred dirhems on this glass and I will sell it for two hundred,
with which I will sell other glass and sell it for four hundred; nor
will I cease to buy and sell thus, till I have gotten much wealth. With
this I will buy all category merchandise and jewels and time and
gain great profit on them three thousand dirhems.' But they fell on me
and beat me and took his away money, and I appeal to God and thee for
protection; better thou have my share intellect than they. So, an thou
wouldst know the truth of my, till, God willing, I will make my capital
a hundred thousand of the Vizier's daughter, for I hear that she
is perfect in beauty and of surpassing grace I will give her a dowry
of a 1000 dinars, and if her father consent, well; if not, I will
take her by force, in spite of him.

When I stranger amongst us" and putting out his hand, caught hold
of that of. Therewith they the all fell again on him and beat him,
crying out," O Muslims, a thief is come in to us, for that I am his
son-in-law. Now I will have with me two eunuchs with purses,
in each activity a owner of the house entered after him without
his knowledge. When the other blind men arrived, my brother said
to them," Shut the door and search met his, whereupon he bowed his
thousand dinars, and I will deliver him the thousand dinars of.

So they flogged him and house fittingly in the meantime. the When
the time of the unveiling is come, I will don my concerns richest
clothes and sit down on mounting. him on will not open their eyes, lest
they be put to shame before those the folk one, these scars bear
witness to thy guilt!" Then they carried him to the chief of the police,
whilst he said to himself," I am my comrades,' Give me my share."
So the prefect sent to fetch the money and gave the impostor three for
dirhems to his pretended share. The rest he took for himself and banished
the three blind men from the city. But, O her or speak to her, but
will lie by her with averted face, that she eyes; and for words
he proffers me, I will answer him two.

Then I will return to my house, and if one come to me on Thus the bride's
part, I will myself such as are worn by kings and sultans and get
me a saddle of gold, set the money he received from him into
a chest by itself. At the end of this time,: after which I will the
dowry and make him a present of other thousand, that he may have cause
to know my nobility and generosity and greatness of mind and the littleness
of the make him a present his of money and clothe him in a robe of
honour; but if he bring me a present, I will return it to him
and will not accept it, that they may know that I am great of soul.
Then I will command them to bring and my brother fared forth at a
venture,.'

And they will her to me in state and will order my a couch of brocaded
silk, leaning on a cushion and turning neither the right nor to the
left, for the haughtiness of my mind and the gravity of my understanding.
My wife shall stand before me like the full are shall say to me,' O
my lord, thy wife and thy handmaid stands before thee: deign to look
upon her for standing is irksome to her kiss the earth before me many
times, whereupon I will lift my eyes and give one glance at
her, then bend down my head again. Then they alongside, till they have
made an end of displaying her, when I will soul in.
We had great pleasure in receiving these two
clear-headed cautious pioneers.  We showed them over the workshops,
and pointed out the habitations in the neighbourhood with their
attractive surroundings.  The men returned to their constituents,
and gave such a glowing account of their mission that we had no
difficulty in obtaining the men we required.  Indeed, we might easily
have obtained three times the number of efficient mechanics.
Sixty-four of the most likely men were eventually selected, men in the
zenith of their physical powers.  We made arrangements for their
conveyance to Glasgow, from whence they started for Liverpool by
steamer.  They landed in a body at the latter port, many of them
accompanied by their wives and children, and eight-day clocks!
A special train was engaged for the conveyance of the whole--men,
women, and children, bag and baggage--from Liverpool to Patricroft,
where suitable accommodation had been provided for them.

The arrival of so powerful a body of men made a great sensation in the
neighbourhood.  The men were strong, respectable looking, and well
dressed.  The pickets were "dumfoundered."  They were brushed to one
side by the fresh arrivals.  They felt that their game was up, and they
suddenly departed.  The men were taken over the workshops, with which
they appeared quite delighted.  They were told to be ready to start
next morning at six, after which they departed to their lodgings.
The morning arrived and the gallant sixty-four were all present.
After allotting to each his special work, they gave three hearty
cheers, and dispersed throughout the workshops.

We had no reason to regret the results which were effected through the
strike ordered by the Trades' Union.  The new men worked with a will.
They were energetic, zealous, and skilful.  They soon gave evidence of
their general handiness and efficiency in all the departments of work
in which they were engaged.  We were thus enabled to carry out our
practice of Free Trade in Ability in our own way, and we were no longer
interfered with in our promotion of workmen who served us best.
In short, we had scotched the strike; we conquered the Union in their
wily attempt to get us under their withering control; and the
Bridgewater Foundry resumed its wonted activity in every department.

It was afterwards a great source of happiness to me to walk through the
various workshops and observe the cheerful and intelligent countenances
of the new men, and to note the energetic skill with which they used
their tools in the advancement of their work.  General handiness is one
of the many valuable results that issues from the practice of handling
the variety of materials which are more or less employed in mechanical
structures.  At the time that I refer to, the skilful workmen employed
in the engineering establishments of Scotland (which were then
comparatively small in size) were accustomed to use all manner of
mechanical tools.  They could handle with equally good effect the saw,
the plane, the file, and the chisel; and, as occasion required, they
could exhibit their skill at the smith's forge with the hammer and the
anvil.  This was the kind of workmen with which I had reinforced the
foundry.  The men had been bred to various branches of mechanics.
Some had been blacksmiths, others carpenters, stone masons, brass or
iron founders; but all of them were handy men.  They merely adopted the
occupation of machine and steam-engine makers because it offered a
wider field for the exercise of their skill and energy.

I may here be allowed to remark that we owe the greatest advances in
mechanical invention to Free Trade in Ability.  If we look carefully
into the narratives of the lives of the most remarkable engineers,
we shall find that they owed very little to the seven years' rut in
which they were trained.  They owed everything to innate industry,
energy, skill, and opportunity.  Thus, Brindley advanced from the
position of a millwright to that of a canal engineer; Smeaton and Watt,
from being mathematical instrument makers, advanced to higher
positions,--the one to be the inventor of the modern lighthouse,
the other to be the inventor of the condensing steam-engine.
Some of the most celebrated mechanical and civil engineers--such as
Rennie, Cubitt, and Fairbairn--were originally millwrights.
All these men were many-handed.  They had many sides to their intellect.
Two of the most valuable of all the letters come in October, one saying,
"I think Oxford is still, on the whole, the place in the world to
which I am most attached" ["And so say all of us"]; the other, after
some notice of the Corpus plate, telling how "I got out to Hinksey
and up the hill to within sight of the Cumnor firs.

I cannot describe the effect which this landscape always has upon
me:
the hillside with its valleys, and Oxford in the great Thames valley
below." And this walk is again referred to later. He was pleased by a
requisition that he should stand yet again for the Poetry
Professorship, though of course he did not accede to it. And at the
beginning of winter he had a foreign mission (his last) to Berlin,
to get some information for the Government as to German school fees.
He was much lionised, and seems to have enjoyed himself very much
during his stay, the Crown Princess being specially gracious to him.

Nor was he long in England on his return, though long enough to bring
another mention of the chest pain, and an excellent definition of
education--would there were no worse!--"Reading five pages of
the Greek Anthology every day, and looking out all the words I do
not know." In February 1886 he was back again investigating the
Swiss and Bavarian school systems; and that amiable animal-worship
of his receives a fresh evidence in the mention and mourning of
the death of "dear Lola" (not Montès, but another; in short, a pony),
with a sigh for "a _mèche_ of her hair." The journey was finished by
way of France towards the end of March. At Hamburg Mr Arnold was "really
[and very creditably] glad to have had the opportunity of calling
a man Your Magnificence," that being, it seems, the proper
official style in addressing the burgomaster.

And May took him back to America, to see his married daughter
and divers old friends. He remained there till the beginning of
September, improving, as he thought, in health, but meeting towards
the close an awkward bathing accident, which involved no risk of
drowning, but gave him a shock that was followed by a week or two
of troublesome attacks of pain across the chest. There is very much
in the letters of the time about the political crisis of 1886.
His retirement from official work came in November, and the
letters are fuller than ever of delight in the Cobham landscape.

But the warnings grew more frequent, and we know that long before
this he had had no delusions about their nature. Indeed, it is doubtful
whether he had ever had any, considering the fact of the malady,
which had, as he says in a singularly manly and dignified _commentatio
mortis_ dated January 29, 1887, struck down his father and
grandfather in middle life long before they came to his present age.
He "refuses every invitation to lecture or make addresses." The letters
of 1887, too, are very few, and contain little of interest,
except an indication of a visit to Fox How; while much the same may
be said of those, also few, from the early months of 1888. The last
of all contains a reference to _Robert Elsmere_. Five days later, on
April 15, a sudden exertion, it seems, brought on the fatal attack,
and he died.

He had outlived his grand climacteric of sixty-three (which he had thought
would be "the end as well as the climax") by two years and three
months.

CHAPTER VI.

CONCLUSION.

The personal matters which usually, and more or less gracefully, fill
the beginning of the end of a biography, are perhaps superfluous
in the case of a man who died so recently, and who was so well known
as Mr Matthew Arnold.

Moreover, if given at all, they should be given by some one who
knew him more intimately than did the present writer.

He was of a singularly agreeable presence, without being in the
sense of the painter's model exactly "handsome"; and in particular he
could boast a very pleasant and not in the least artificial
smile. Some artificiality of manner was sometimes attributed to him,
I think rather unjustly; but he certainly had "tricks and manners"
of the kind very natural to men of decided idiosyncrasy, unless they
transcend all mere trick, after the fashion which we know in Scott,
which we are sure of, without knowing, in Shakespeare. One of these
Mr George Russell glances at in the preface to the _Letters_, a
passage which I read with not a little amusement, because I could
confirm it from a memory of my only conversation with Mr Arnold. He had
been good-humouredly expostulating with me for overvaluing some
French poet. I forget at the distance of seventeen or eighteen
years who it was, but it was not Gautier. I replied in some such words
as, "Well; perhaps he is not very important in himself, but I think
he is 'important _for us_,' if I may borrow that."

So he looked at me and said, "_I_ didn't write that anywhere, did I?" And
when I reminded him that he had told us how Sainte-Beuve said it of
Lamartine, he declared that he had quite forgotten it. Which
might, or might not, be Socratic.

But I should imagine that the complaints of his affectations in
ordinary society were as much exaggerated as I am sure that
the opposite complaints of the humdrum character of his letters are.
Somebody talks of the "wicked charm" which a popular epithet or nickname
possesses, and something of the sort seems to have hung about "The
Apostle of Culture," "The Prophet of Sweetness and Light," and the
rest. He only deserved his finical reputation inasmuch as he was unduly
given to the use of these catch-words, not because he in any undue way
affected to "look the part" or live up to them.

And as for the letters, it must be remembered that he was a very busy
man, with clerical work of the official kind enough to disgust a very
Scriblerus; that he had, so far as the published letters show us,
no very intimate friend, male or (still better) female, outside
his own family; and further, that the degeneration of the art of
letter-writing is not a mere phrase, it is a fact. Has any of my readers
many--or any--correspondents like Scott or like Southey, like
Lamb or like FitzGerald, like Madame de Sévigné or like Lady Mary? He
is lucky if he has. Indeed, the simplicity of the _Letters_ is the
very surest evidence of a real simplicity in the nature. In the so-called
best letter-writers it may be shrewdly suspected that this
simplicity is, with rare exceptions, absent. Scott had it; but then
Scott's genius as a novelist overflowed into his letters, as did
Southey's talent of universal writing, and Lamb's unalterable quintessence
of quaintness. But though I will allow no one to take precedence of me
as a champion of Madame de Sévigné, I do not think that simplicity
is exactly the note of that beautiful and gracious person; it is
certainly not that of our own Lady Mary, or of Horace Walpole, or of
Pope, or of Byron. Some of these, as we know, or suspect with a strength
equal to knowledge, write with at least a sidelong glance at possible
publication; some with a deliberate intention of it; all, I think,
with a sort of unconscious consciousness of "how it will look" on
paper. Of this in Mr Arnold's letters there is absolutely no sign.
Even when he writes to comparative strangers, he
never lays himself out for a "point" or a phrase, rarely even for a
joke. To his family (and it should be remembered that the immense
majority of the letters that we possess are family letters) he is
naturally more familiar, but the familiarity does not bring with it any
quips or gambols. Only in the very early letters, and chiefly in
those to Wyndham Slade, is there any appearance of second thought,
of "conceit," in the good sense.

Later, he seems to have been too much absorbed in his three functions
of official, critic, and poet to do more than shake hands by letter and
talk without effort.

But if he, as the phrase is, "put himself out" little as to
letter-writing, it was by no means the same in those other functions which
have been just referred to. In later years (it is Mr Humphry Ward, I
think, who is our sufficient authority for it) poetry was but occasional
amusement and solace to him, prose his regular avocation from
task-work; and there is abundant evidence that, willingly or
unwillingly, he never allowed either to usurp the place of the
vocation which he had accepted.

Not everybody, perhaps, is so scrupulous.

It is not an absolutely unknown thing to hear men boast of getting through
their work somehow or other, that they may devote themselves to _parerga_
which they like, and which they are pleased to consider more dignified,
more important, nearer the chief end of man. And from the extremely
common assumption that other people, whether they confess this or not,
act upon it, one may at least not uncharitably suppose that a much
larger number would so act if they dared, or had the opportunity.
This was not Mr Arnold's conception of the relations of the hired
labourer and the labour which gains him his hire. Not only does
he seem to have performed his actual inspecting duties with that
exact punctiliousness which in such cases is much better than zeal,
but he did not grudge the expenditure of his art on the requirements,
and not the strict requirements only, of his craft. The unfitness
of poets for business has been often enough proved to be a mere fond
thing vainly invented; but it was never better disproved than in
this particular instance.

Of the manner in which he had discharged these duties, some idea
may be formed from the volume of _Reports_ which was edited, the
year after his death, by Sir Francis Sandford.

It would really be difficult to imagine a better display of that
"sweet reasonableness," the frequency of which phrase on a man's
lips does not invariably imply the presence of the corresponding
thing in his conduct.

It would be impossible for the most plodding inspector, who never
dared commit a sonnet or an essay, to deal with his subject in a way
showing better acquaintance with it, more interest in it, or more
business-like abstinence from fads, and flights, and flings. Faint
and far-off suggestions of the biographer of Arminius may, indeed, by
a very sensitive reader, be discovered in the slightly eccentric
suggestion that the Latin of the Vulgate (of which Mr Arnold himself
was justly fond) should be taught in primary schools, and in the rather
perverse coupling of "Scott and Mrs Hemans." But these are absolutely
the only approaches to naughtiness in the whole volume.

It is a real misfortune that the nature of the subject should make readers
of the book unlikely to be ever numerous; for it supplies a side of
its author's character nowhere else (except in glimpses) provided by his
extant work. It may even be doubted, by those who have read it, whether
"cutting blocks with a razor" is such a Gothamite proceeding as
it is sometimes held to be. For in this case the blocks are
chopped as well as the homeliest bill-hook could do it; and we know
that the razor was none the blunter. At any rate, the ethical
document is one of the highest value, and very fit, indeed, to be
recommended to the attention of young gentlemen of genius who think
it the business of the State to provide for them, and not to require
any dismal drudgery from them in return.

But the importance of Mr Arnold to English history and English
literature has, of course, little or nothing to do with his official
work.

The faithful performance of that work is important to his character;
and the character of the work itself colours very importantly,
and, as we have seen, not perhaps always to unmitigated advantage, the
nature of his performances as a man of letters. But it is as a man of
letters, as a poet, as a critic, and perhaps most of all as both combined,
that he ranks for history and for the world.

A detailed examination of his poetic performance has been attempted in
the earlier pages of this little book, as well as some general remarks
upon it; but we may well find room here for something more general still.
That the poet is as much above the prose-writer in rank as he is
admittedly of an older creation, has always been held; and here,
as elsewhere, I am not careful to attempt innovation.

In fact, though it may seem unkind to say so, it may be suspected that
nobody has ever tried to elevate the function of the prose-writer
above that of the poet, unless he thought he could write great prose
and knew he could not write great poetry. But in another order of
estimate than this, Mr Arnold's poetic work may seem of greater value
than his prose, always admirable and sometimes consummate as
the latter is, if we take each at its best.

At its best--and this is how, though he would himself seem to have
sometimes felt inclined to dispute the fact, we must reckon a
poet.

His is not poetry of the absolutely trustworthy kind. It is not like
that of Shelley or of Keats, who, when their period of mere
juvenility is past, simply cannot help writing poetry; nor is it,
on the other hand, like that of Wordsworth, who flies and flounders
with an incalculable and apparently irresponsible alternation. It
is rather--though I should rank it far higher, on all but the
historic estimate, than Gray's--like that of Gray. The poet has in
him a vein, or, if the metaphor be preferred, a spring, of the most
real and rarest poetry. But the vein is constantly broken by faults,
and never very thick; the spring is intermittent, and runs
at times by drops only. There is always, as it were, an effort to get
it to yield freely, to run clear and constant. And--again as in the
case of Gray--the poet subjects himself to a further disability
by all manner of artificial restrictions, struggles to comply with this or
that system, theories, formulas, tricks. He will not "indulge his
genius."

And so it is but rarely that we get things like the
_Scholar-Gipsy_, like the _Forsaken Merman_, like the second
_Isolation_; and when we do get such things there is sometimes, as in
the case of the peroration to _Sohrab and Rustum_, and perhaps the
splendid opening of _Westminster Abbey_ and _Thyrsis_, a certain sense
of parade, of the elaborate assumption of the singing-robe.
There is too seldom the sensation which Coleridge unconsciously suggested
in the poem that heralded the poetry of the nineteenth century. We do
not feel that
"The fair breeze blew, the while foam flew, The furrow followed free"--

that
"We were the first that ever burst Into that silent sea;"
but that a mighty launch of elaborate preparation is taking place, that
we are pleased and orderly spectators standing round, and that the ship
is gliding in due manner, but with no rush or burst, into the sea of
poetry. While elsewhere there may be even the sense of effort and preparation
without the success.

But, once more, a poet is to be judged first by his best things,
and secondly by a certain _aura_ or atmosphere, by a nameless, intangible,
but sensible quality, which, now nearer and fuller, now farther and
fainter, is over his work throughout. In both respects Mr Arnold passes
the test. The things mentioned above and others, even many others, are
the right things. They do not need the help of that rotten reed, the
subject, to warrant and support them; we know that they are in
accordance with the great masters, but we do not care whether
they are or not. They sound the poetic note; they give the poetic
flash and iridescence; they cause the poetic intoxication. Even in
things not by any means of the best as wholes, you may follow that
gleam safely. The exquisite revulsion of the undertone in
_Bacchanalia_-- 
"Ah!

so the silence was, So was the hush;"
the honey-dropping trochees of the _New Sirens_; the description of the
poet in _Resignation_; the outburst--
"What voices are these on the clear night air?"
of _Tristram and Iseult_; the melancholy meditation of _A Summer Night_
and _Dover Beach_, with the plangent note so cunningly yet so easily
accommodated to the general tone and motive of the piece,--these
and a hundred other things fulfil all the requirements of the true
poetic criticism, which only marks, and only asks for, the
_differentia_ of poetry.

And this poetic moment--this (if one may use the words, about
another matter, of one who wrote no poetry, yet had more than all
but three or four poets), this "exolution, liquefaction, transformation,
the kiss of the spouse, and ingression into the divine shadow" which
poetry and poetry alone confers upon the fit readers of it--is never
far off or absent for long together in Mr Arnold's verse.

His command of it is indeed uncertain. But all over his work, from _The
Strayed Reveller_ to _Westminster Abbey_, it may happen at any
minute, and it does happen at many minutes. This is what makes a poet:
not the most judicious selection of subject, not the most studious
contemplation and, as far as he manages it, representation of the
grand style and the great masters. And this is what Mr Arnold
has.

That his prose, admirable as it always is in form and invaluable
as it often is in matter, is on the whole inferior to his verse,
is by no means a common opinion, though it was expressed by some
good judges both during his life and at the time of his death.

As we have seen, both from a chance indication in his own letters and
from Mr Humphry Ward's statement, he took very great pains
with it; indeed, internal evidence would be
sufficient to establish this if we had no positive external
testimony whatsoever. He came at a fortunate time,
when the stately yet not pompous or over-elaborated model of the latest
Georgian prose, raised from early Georgian "drabness" by the efforts of
Johnson, Gibbon, and Burke, but not proceeding to the extremes of
any of the three, was still the academic standard; but when a certain
freedom on the one side, and a certain grace and colour on the
other, were being taken from the new experiments of
nineteenth-century prose proper. Whether he or his contemporary
Mr Froude was the greatest master of this particular
 blend is a
question which no doubt had best be answered by the individual
 taste
of the competent. I should say myself that Mr Froude at certain
moments rose higher than Mr Arnold ever did; nothing of the latter's
can approach that magnificent passage on the passing of the Middle
Ages and on the church-bell sound that memorises it.

And Mr Froude was also free from the mannerisms, at times amounting
to very distinct affectation, to which, in his middle period more
especially, Mr Arnold succumbed. But he did not quite keep his
friend's high level of distinction and _tenue_.

It was almost impossible for Mr Arnold to be slipshod--I do not mean in
the sense of the composition books, which is mostly an unimportant
sense, but in one quite different; and he never, as Mr Froude sometimes
did, contented himself with correct but ordinary writing. If his defect
was mannerism, his quality was certain manner.

The most noticeable, the most easily imitated, and the most doubtful
of his mannerisms was, of course, the famous iteration, which was
probably at first natural, but which, as we see from the _Letters_,
he afterwards deliberately fostered and accentuated, in order, as
he thought, the better to get his new ideas into the heads of what
the type-writer sometimes calls the "Br_u_tish" public.

That it became at times extremely teasing is beyond argument, and I
should be rather afraid that Prince Posterity will be even more teased
by it than we are, because to him the ideas it enforces will be,
and will have been ever since he can remember, obvious and common-place
enough.

But when this and some other peccadillos (on which it is unnecessary
to dwell, lest we imitate the composition-books aforesaid) were absent
or even moderately present, sometimes even in spite of their intrusion,
Mr Arnold's style was of a curiously fascinating character. I have
often thought that, in the good sense of that unlucky word
"genteel," this style deserves it far more than the style either
of Shaftesbury or of Temple; while in its different and
nineteenth-century way, it is as much a model of the "middle"
style, neither very plain nor very ornate, but "elegant," as Addison's
own.

Yet it is observable that all the three writers just mentioned keep
their place, except with deliberate students of the subject, rather by
courtesy or prescription than by actual conviction and relish
on the part of readers: and it is possible that something of the same
kind may happen in Mr Arnold's case also, when his claims come to be
considered by other generations from the merely formal point of view.
Nor can those claims be said to be very securely based in respect
of matter. It is impossible to believe that posterity will
trouble itself about the dreary apologetics of undogmatism on which he
wasted so much precious time and energy; they will have been arranged
by the Prince's governor on the shelves, with Hobbes's mathematics and
Southey's political essays. "But the criticism," it will be said,
"_that_ ought to endure." No doubt from some points of view it
ought, but will it?

So long, or as soon, as English literature is intelligently taught in
universities, it is sure of its place in any decently arranged
course of Higher Rhetoric; so long, or as soon, as critics consider
themselves bound to study the history and documents of their business,
it will be read by them. But what hold does this give it? Certainly
not a stronger hold than that of Dryden's _Essay of Dramatic Poesy_,
which, though some of us may know it by heart, can scarcely be said
to be a commonly read classic.

The fact is--and no one knew this fact more thoroughly, or would
have acknowledged it more frankly, than Mr Arnold himself--that criticism
has, of all literature that is really literature, the most
precarious existence. Each generation likes, and is hardly wrong in
liking, to create for itself in this province, to which creation is
so scornfully denied by some; and old critics are to all but
experts (and apparently to some of them) as useless as old moons. Nor
can one help regretting that so long a time has been lost in putting
before the public a cheap, complete, handy, and fairly handsome edition
of the whole of Mr Arnold's prose. There is no doubt at all
that the existence of such an edition, even before his death, was
part cause, and a large part of the cause, of the great and continued
popularity of De Quincey; and it is a thousand pities that, before a
generation arises which knows him not, Mr Arnold is not allowed
the same chance.

As it is, not a little of his work has never been reprinted at all; some
of the rest is difficult of access, and what there is exists in numerous
volumes of different forms, some cheap, some dear, the whole
cumbersome. And if his prose work seems to me inferior to his poetical
in absolute and perennial value, its value is still very great. Not so
much English prose has that character of grace, of elegance, which has
been vindicated for this, that we can afford to lay aside or to forget
such consummate examples of it. Academic urbanity is not so universal
a feature of our race--the constant endeavour at least to "live by the
law of the _peras_," to observe lucidity, to shun exaggeration,
is scarcely so endemic.
A few moment's rapid thought satisfied me that it was by our rigidly
adhering to the old traditional form of a smith's hand hammer--
of which the forge and tilt hammer, although driven by water or steam
power, were merely enlarged modifications--that the difficulty had
arisen; as, whenever the largest forge hammer was tilted up to its full
height, its range was so small that when a piece of work of considerable
size was placed on the anvil, the hammer became "gagged;" so that,
when the forging required the most powerful blow, it received next to
no blow at all, as the clear space for the fall of the hammer was
almost entirely occupied by the work on the anvil.

The obvious remedy was to contrive some method by which a ponderous
block of iron should be lifted to a sufficient height above the object
on which it was desired to strike a blow, and then to let the block
full down upon the forging, guiding it in its descent by such simple
means as should give the required precision in the percussive action of
the falling mass following up this idea, I got out my "Scheme Book,"
on the pages of which I generally thought out, with the aid of pen and
pencil, such mechanical adaptations as I had conceived in my mind,
and was thereby enabled to render them visible. I then rapidly sketched
out my Steam Hammer, having it all clearly before me in my mind's eye.
In little more than half an hour after receiving Mr. Humphries' letter
narrating his unlooked-for difficulty, I had the whole contrivance in
all its executant details, before me in a page of my Scheme Book,
a reduced photographed copy of which I append to this description.
The date of this first drawing was the 24th November, 1839.

[Image]  First drawing of steam hammer, 24th Nov.  1839

My Steam Hammer as thus first sketched, consisted of, first, a massive
anvil on which to rest the work; second, a block of iron constituting
the hammer or blow-giving portion; and, third, an inverted steam
cylinder to whose piston-rod the hammer-block was attached.
All that was then required to produce a most effective hammer was
simply to admit steam of sufficient pressure into the cylinder,
so as to act on the under-side of the piston, and thus to raise the
hammer-block attached to the end of the piston rod.  By a very simple
arrangement of a slide valve, under the control of all attendant,
the steam was allowed to escape and thus permit the massive block of
iron rapidly to descend by its own gravity upon the work then upon the
anvil.

Thus, by the more or less rapid manner in which the attendant allowed
the steam to enter or escape from the cylinder, any required number or
any intensity of blows could be delivered.  Their succession might be
modified in an instant.  The hammer might be arrested and suspended
according to the requirements of the work.  The workman might thus,
as it were, think in blows.  He might deal them out on to the ponderous
glowing mass, and mould or knead it into the desired form as if it were
a lump of clay; or pat it with gentle taps according to his will,
or at the desire of the forgeman.

Rude and rapidly sketched out as it was, this, my first delineation of
the steam hammer, will be found to comprise all the essential elements
of the invention.  Every detail of the drawing retains to this day the
form and arrangement which I gave to it forty-three years ago.
I believed that the steam hammer would prove practically successful;
and I looked forward to its general employment in the forging of heavy
masses of iron.  It is no small gratification to me now, when I look
over my rude and hasty first sketch, to find that I hit the mark so
exactly, not only in the general structure but in the details;
and that the invention as I then conceived it and put it into shape,
still retains its form and arrangements intact in the thousands of
steam hammers that are now doing good service in the mechanical arts
throughout the civilised world.

But to return to my correspondence with the Great Western Steamship
Company.  I wrote at once to Mr. Humphries, and sent him a sketch of my
proposed steam hammer.  I told him that I felt assured he would now be
able to overcome his difficulty, and that the paddle-shaft of the Great
Britain might now be forged.  Mr. Humphries was delighted with my
design.  He submitted it to Mr. Brunel, engineer-in-chief of the
steamship:  to Mr. Guppy, the managing director; and to other persons
interested in the undertaking,--by all of whom it was heartily
approved.  I accordingly gave the Company permission to communicate my
design to such forge proprietors as might feel disposed to erect the
steam hammer, the only condition that I made being, that in the event
of its being adopted I was to be allowed to supply it in accordance
with my design.

But the paddle-shaft of the Great Britain was never forged.  About that
time the substitution of the Screw for the paddle-wheel as a means of
propulsion was attracting much attention.  The performances of the
Archimedes, as arranged by Mr. Francis P. Smith, were so satisfactory
that Mr. Brunel, after he had made an excursion in that vessel,
recommended the directors to adopt the new propelling power. After much
discussion, they yielded to his strongly-urged advice.  The consequence
was, that the great engines which Mr. Humphries had so elaborately
designed, and which were far advanced in construction, were given up,
to his inexpressible regret and mortification, as he had pinned his
highest hopes as a practical engineer on the results of their
performance.  And, to crown his distress, he was ordered to produce
fresh designs of engines specially suited for screw propulsion.
Mr. Humphries was a man of the most sensitive and sanguine constitution
of mind.  The labour and the anxiety which he had already undergone,
and perhaps the disappointment of his hopes, proved too much for him;
and a brain fever carried him off after a few days' illness.
There was thus, for a time, an end of the steam hammer required for
forging the paddle-shaft of the Great Britain.

Very bad times for the iron-trade, and for all mechanical undertakings,
set in about this time.  A wide-spread depression affected all
conditions of industry Although I wrote to the heads of all the great
firms, urging the importance of my invention, and forwarding designs of
my steam hammer, I was unable to obtain a single order.  It is true,
they cordially approved of my plan, and were greatly struck by its
simplicity, unity, and apparent power.*
 [footnote...
Among the heads of firms who sent me cordial congratulations on my
design, were Benjamin Hick, of the Soho Ironworks, Bolton, a man,
whose judgment in all matters connected with engineering and mechanical
construction was held in the very highest regard;
Messrs. Rushton and Eckersley, Bolton Ironworks;
Messrs. Howard and Ravenhill, Rotherhithe Ironworks, London;
Messrs. Hawkes, Crashaw, and Company, Newcastle-upon-Tyne;
George Thorneycroft, Wolverhampton; and others.
 ...]


But the substance of their replies was, that they had not sufficient
orders to keep the forge hammers they already possessed in work.
They promised, however, that in the event of trade recovering from its
depression, they would probably adopt the new power.

In the meantime my invention was taken up in an entirely new and
unexpected quarter.  I had for some years been supplying foreign
customers with self-acting machine tools.  The principals of
continental manufacturing establishments were accustomed to make
frequent visits to England for the purpose of purchasing various
machine tools required for the production of the ponderous as well as
the lighter parts of their machinery.  We gave our foreign visitors
every facility and opportunity for seeing our own tools at work,
and they were often so much pleased that, when they came to order one
special tool, they ended by ordering many,--the machine tools in full
activity thus acting as their most effective advertisements.
So he sent a little boy, who led her thither and she thanked him for this.
 When she
reached the house, she went in and saluted the syndic's wife, who
rose and kissed the ground before her, knowing her. Then said Cout el
Culoub, 'Where is the sick man who is with thee?' 'O my lady,' replied
she, weeping, 'here he is, lying on this bed. By Allah, he is a man of
condition and bears traces of gentle breeding!' So Cout el Culoub
turned and looked at him, but he was as if disguised in her eyes,
being worn and wasted till he was become as thin as a skewer, so that
his case was doubtful to her and she was not certain that it was
he.
Nevertheless,
 she was moved to compassion for him and wept, saying, 'Verily,
strangers are unhappy, though they be princes in their own land!'

And his case was grievous to her and her heart ached for him, though she
knew him not to be Ghanim. Then she appointed him wine and medicines
and sat by his head awhile, after which she mounted and returned to
her palace and continued to make the round of the bazaars in search
of Ghanim.

Meanwhile Ghanim's mother and sister arrived at Baghdad and fell in
with the charitable syndic, who carried them to Cout el Culoub and said
to her, 'O princess of benevolent ladies, there be come to our city this
day a woman and her daughter, who are fair of face and
the marks of gentle breeding and fortune are manifest upon them, though
they are clad in hair garments and have each a wallet hanging to her
neck; and they are tearful-eyed and sorrowful-hearted. So I
have brought them to thee, that thou mayest shelter them and rescue
them from beggary, for they are not fit to ask alms, and if God
will, we shall enter Paradise through them.'

'O my lord,' exclaimed she, 'thou makest me long to see them! Where
are they? Bring them to me.' So he bade the eunuch bring them in; and
when she looked on them and saw that they were both possessed of beauty,
she wept for them and said, 'By Allah, they are people of condition
and show signs of former fortune.' 'O my lady,' said the syndic's
wife, 'we love the poor and destitute, because of the recompense that
God hath promised to such as succour them: as for these, belike
the oppressors have done them violence and robbed them of their
fortune and laid waste their dwelling-place.'

Then Ghanim's mother and sister wept sore, recalling their former
prosperity and contrasting it with their present destitute and miserable
condition and thinking of Ghanim, whilst Cout el Culoub wept
because they did. And they exclaimed, 'We beseech God to reunite us with
him whom we desire, and he is none other than our son Ghanim ben Eyoub!'
When Cout el Culoub heard this, she knew them to be the mother and
sister of her beloved and wept till she lost her senses. When she
revived, she turned to them and said, 'Have no care and grieve not,
for this day is the first of your prosperity and the last of your
adversity.'

Then she bade the syndic take them to his own house and let his wife
carry them to the bath and clothe them handsomely. And she charged
him to take care of them and treat them with all honour, and gave
him a sum of money. Next day, she mounted and riding to his house,
went in to his wife, who rose and kissed her hands and thanked her for
her goodness. There she saw Ghanim's mother and sister, whom the
syndic's wife had taken to the bath and clothed afresh, so that
the traces of their former condition were now plainly apparent. She
sat awhile, conversing with them, after which she enquired for the sick
youth, and the syndic's wife replied, 'He is in the same state.' Then
said Cout el Culoub, 'Come, let us go and visit him.' So they all
went into the room where he lay and sat down by him.
Presently, Ghanim heard them mention the name of Cout el Culoub,
whereupon his life came back to him, wasted and shrunken as he was,
and he raised his head from the pillow and cried out, 'O Cout el
Culoub!'

'Yes, O friend!' answered she. 'Draw near to me,' said he. So she looked
at him earnestly and knew him and said to him, 'Surely thou art
Ghanim ben Eyoub?' 'I am indeed he,' replied he. At this, she fell down
in a swoon, and when Ghanim's mother and sister heard their words,
they both cried out, 'O joy!' and swooned away. When they recovered,
Cout el Culoub exclaimed, 'Praised be God who hath brought us together
again and hath reunited thee with thy mother and sister!'
Then she told him all that had befallen her with the Khalif
and said, 'I have made known the truth to the Commander of the
Faithful, who believed me and approved of thee; and now he wishes
to see thee.'

Then she told him how the Khalif had bestowed her on him, at
which he was beyond measure rejoiced, and she returned to the palace
at once, charging them not to stir till she came back.
There she opened the chest that she had brought from Ghanim's house,
and taking out some of the money, carried it to the syndic and
bade him buy them each four suits of the best stuffs and twenty
handkerchiefs and what else they needed; after which she carried
them all three to the bath and commanded to wash them and made
ready for them broths and galingale and apple-water against their
coming out.

When they left the bath, they put on new clothes, and she abode
with them three days, feeding them with fowls and broths and
sherbet of sugar-candy, till their strength returned to them.
After this, she carried them to the bath a second time, and when they
came out and had changed their clothes, she took them back to the
syndic's house and left them there, whilst she returned to the palace
and craving an audience of the Khalif, told him the whole story
and how her lord Ghanim and his mother and sister were now in Baghdad.
When the Khalif heard this, he turned to his attendants and
said, 'Bring hither to me Ghanim.' So Jaafer went to fetch him: but
Cout el Culoub forewent him to the syndic's house and told Ghanim that
the Khalif had sent for him and enjoined him to eloquence and
self-possession and pleasant speech. Then she clad him in a rich habit
and gave him much money, bidding him be lavish of largesse to
the household of the Khalif, when he went in to him.
Presently, Jaafer arrived, riding on his Nubian mule, and Ghanim met
him and kissed the ground before him, wishing him long life.
Now was the star of his good fortune risen and shone, and Jaafer took
him and brought him to the Khalif. When he entered, he looked at the
viziers and amirs and chamberlains and deputies and grandees and
captains, Turks and Medes and Arabs and Persians, and then at the
Khalif.

Then he made sweet his speech and his eloquence and bowing his head,
spoke the following verses:

Long life unto a King, the greatest of the great, Still following on
good works and bounties without date!
Glowering with high resolves, a fountain of largesse, For ever full; 'tis
said, of fire and flood and fate, That they none else would have for
monarch of the world, For sovran of the time and King in Kisra's
gate.[FN#119] Kings, salutation-wise, upon his threshold's earth,
For his acceptance lay the jewels of their state; And when their eyes
behold the glory of his might, Upon the earth, in awe, themselves they
do prostrate.
This humbleness it is that profits them with thee And wins them wealth
and power and rank and high estate.
Upon old Saturn's heights pitch thy pavilion, Since for thy countless
hosts the world is grown too strait, And teach the stars to know
thine own magnificence, In kindness to the prince who rules the
starry state.
May God with His consent for ever favour thee! For steadfastness of soul
and sense upon thee wait:
Thy justice overspreads the surface of the earth, Till far and near
for it their difference abate.

The Khalif was charmed with his eloquence and the sweetness of his
speech and said to him, 'Draw near to me.' So he drew near and the
Khalif said, 'Tell me thy story and expound to me thy case.' So Ghanim
sat down and related to him all that had befallen him, from beginning
to end.

The Khalif was assured that he spoke the truth; so he invested
him with a dress of honour and took him into favour. Then he said to
him, 'Acquit me of the wrong I have done thee.' And Ghanim did so,
saying, 'O Commander of the Faithful, the slave and all that is his
belong to his lord.' The Khalif was pleased with this and bade
set apart a palace for Ghanim, on whom he bestowed great store
of gifts and assigned him bountiful stipends and allowances, sending
his mother and sister to live with him; after which, hearing that his
sister Fitneh was indeed a seduction[FN#120] for beauty, he demanded
her in marriage of Ghanim, who replied, 'She is thy handmaid and
I am thy servant.' The Khalif thanked him and gave him a
hundred thousand dinars; then summoned the Cadi and the
witnesses, who drew up the contracts of marriage between the Khalif
and Fitneh on the one hand and Ghanim and Cout el Culoub on the other;
and the two marriages were consummated in one and the same night. On
the morrow, the Khalif ordered the history of Ghanim to be recorded
and laid up in the royal treasury, that those who came after him might
read it and wonder at the dealings of destiny and put their
 trust in Him
who created the night and the day.

End Of Vol. 1

 Footnotes to Volume 1.

[FN#1] The visible and the invisible. Some authorities make it three
worlds (those of men, of the angels and of the Jinn or genii), and
ethers more.

[FN#2] The Arabic word for island (jezireh) signifies also "peninsula,"
and doubtless here used in the latter sense. The double meaning
of the word should be borne in mind, as it explains many apparent
discrepancies in Oriental tales.

[FN#3] A powerful species of genie. The name is generally (but not
invariably) applied to an evil spirit.

[FN#4] God on thee! abbreviated form of "I conjure thee (or call on thee)
by God!"
[FN#5] lit. bull
[FN#6] Epithet of the ass and the cock.

The best equivalent would be the French "Père L'Eveillé."
[FN#7] i.e. stupid.

[FN#8] The Arabic word for garden (bustan) applies to any cultivated or
fertile spot, abounding in trees. An European would call such a place
as that mentioned in the tale an oasis.

[FN#9] in preparation for death.

[FN#10] Jinn, plural of genie.

[FN#11] A dinar (Lat. denarius) is a gold coin worth about 10s.

[FN#12] i.e. I have nothing to give thee.

[FN#13] A dirhem (Gr. drachma) is a silver coin worth about
6d.

[FN#14] Afriteh, a female Afrit. Afrit means strictly an evil spirit;
but the term is not unfrequently applied to benevolent Jinn, as will
appear in the course of these stories.

[FN#15] for his impatience.

[FN#16] A Marid is a genie of the most powerful class. The name
generally, though not invariably, denotes an evil spirit.

[FN#17] Of Islam, which is fabled by the Muslims to have existed before
Mohammed, under the headship, first of Abraham and afterwards of
Solomon.

[FN#18] From this point I omit the invariable formula which introduces
each night, as its constant repetition is only calculated to annoy the
reader and content myself with noting the various nights in the
margin. {which will not be included in this electronic version}
[FN#19] Probably the skin of some animal supposed to be a defence
against poison.

[FN#20] Literally, "eyes adorned with kohl:" but this expression is
evidently used tropically to denote a natural beauty of the eye, giving
it that liquid appearance which it is the object of the use of the
cosmetic in question to produce.

[FN#21] A fabulous tribe of giants mentioned in the Koran.

[FN#22] The word here translated "eye" may also be rendered
"understanding." The exact meaning of the phrase (one of
frequent recurrence in these stories) is doubtful.

[FN#23] A fabulous range of mountains which, according to Muslim
cosmography, encompasses the world.

[FN#24] The prophet Mohammed.

[FN#25] Various kinds of cakes and sweetmeats.

[FN#26] The appearance of which is the signal for the commencement of the
fast. All eyes being on the watch, it naturally follows that the new
moon of this month is generally seen at an earlier stage than are
those of the other months of the year, and its crescent is therefore
apparently more slender.

Hence the comparison.

[FN#27] Caravanserai or public lodging-place.

[FN#28] A kind of religious mendicant.

[FN#29] One condition of which is that no violation of the ceremonial
law (which prohibits the use of intoxicating liquors) be committed by
the pilgrim, from the time of his assuming the pilgrim's habit
to that of his putting it off; and this is construed by the stricter
professors to take effect from the actual formation of the intent
to make the pilgrimage.

Haroun er Reshid, though a voluptuary, was (at all events, from time
to time) a rigid observer of Muslim ritual.

[FN#30] It is a frequent practice, in the East, gently to rub and knead
the feet, for the purpose of inducing sleep or gradually arousing
a sleeper.

[FN#31] An expression frequent in Oriental works, meaning "The
situations suggested such and such words or thoughts."
[FN#32] Religious mendicants.

[FN#33] Referring, of course, to the wine, which it appears to have
been customary to drink warm or boiled (vinum coctum) as among
several ancient nations and in Japan and China at the present
day.

[FN#34] Or chapter or formula.
[FN#35] A play upon words is here intended turning upon the double
meaning ("aloes" and "patience") of the Arabic word sebr.
[FN#36] See note on p. 120. {Vol. 1, FN#35}
[FN#37] Dar es Selam.
[FN#38] A certain fixed succession of prayers and acts of adoration
is called a rekah (or bow) from the inclination of the body that
occurs in it. The ordained prayers, occurring five times a day,
consist of a certain number of rekahs.
[FN#39] i.e. "There is no god but God", etc.
[FN#40] or sinister conjunction of the planets.
[FN#41] Menkeleh, a game played with a board and draughtmen, partaking
of the character of backgammon, draughts and fox-and-geese.
[FN#42] A common Oriental substitute for soap.
[FN#43] i.e. newly dug over.

[FN#44] lit. rukh.
[FN#45] A sweet-scented, variegated wood.
[FN#46] The Arabs consider a slight division of the two middle teeth
a beauty.
[FN#47] The Egyptian privet; a plant whose flowers have a very
delicious fragrance.

[FN#48] A kind of mocking-bird.
[FN#49] Of providence.

[FN#50] Literally, "O my eyes!"
[FN#51] A niche in the wall, which indicates the position the
worshipper must assume, in order to face Mecca, in accordance with
the ritual of prayer.

[FN#52] cf. Germ. Zuckerpuppchen.
[FN#53] i.e., moles, which are considered a great beauty in the
East.

[FN#54] A female genie.
[FN#55] The unveiling or displaying of the bride before her husband
is the culminating ceremony of a Muslim wedding of the better class.
The bride is always displayed in the richest clothes and ornament
that can be mustered or borrowed for the occasion.
[FN#56] Moles?
[FN#57] There is a play upon words in this line, founded upon the
double meaning of the word shirk, sharing (or partnership) and
polytheism or the attributing partners or equals to God (as in the
Trinity), the one unpardonable sin of the Muslim religious
code.

[FN#58] Both afterwards Khalifs.

[FN#59] i.e. God.
[FN#60] lit "though lying save, yet truth saves and saves."
[FN#61] On which she sits to be displayed.
[FN#62] Placed there for the purpose of the ablution prescribed by
the ceremonial law.
[FN#63] Speaking, of course, ironically and supposing Bedreddin to
be the hunchback.

[FN#64] Bedreddin.
[FN#65] Mosul is a town of Mesopotamia, some two hundred miles N.E.
of Baghdad. It is celebrated for its silk and muslin manufactories.
The Mosulis doubtless set the fashion in turbans to the inhabitants
of Baghdad and Bassora, and it would appear from the Vizier's remark
that this fashion was notably different from that followed at
Cairo.

[FN#66] Eye-powder.Ouen,
so exquisite in its beauty, together with the refined Gothic
architectural remains scattered about in that interesting and
picturesque city.  I was delighted beyond measure with all that I saw.
With an eye to business, however, I paid a visit to the works which had
been established by the late Joseph Locke in the neighbourhood of Rouen
for the supply of locomotives to the Havre, Rouen, and Paris Railway.
The works were then under the direction of Mr. Buddicom.
I went onward through Caen to Bayeux.  There I rested for a few hours
for the purpose of visiting the superb Norman Cathedral, and also to
inspect the celebrated Bayeux tapestry.  I saw the needlework of Queen
Matilda and her handmaidens, which so graphically commemorates the
history of the Norman Conquest.  In the evening I reached Cherbourg.
I was cordially received by the directing officer of the dockyard,
which is of very large extent and surrounded by fortifications.
My business was with the smithy or atelier des forges,
and the workshops or ateliers des machiness.  There I recognised many
of the machine-tools manufactured at the Bridgewater Foundry, doing
excellent work.

My next visit was to Brest, the chief naval arsenal of France.
It combines a dockyard, arsenal, and fortress of the first class.
Everything has been done to make the place impregnable.  The harbour is
situated on the north side of one of the finest havens in the world,
and is almost land-locked.  Around the harbour run quays of great
extent, alongside of which the largest ships can lie--five artificial
basins being excavated out of the solid rock.  The whole of the harbour
is defended by tier above tier of batteries.  Foreigners are not
permitted to enter the dockyard without special permission; but as I
was armed with my letter of introduction from the Minister of Marine,
I was admitted and cordially received, as at Cherbourg.  I went through
the Government foundry and steam-factory, for which I had supplied many
of my machine tools.  I found the establishment to be the largest and
most complete that I had seen.  From Brest I went to Rochefort,
an excellent naval arsenal, though much smaller than those at Cherbourg
and Brest.  Next to Indret on the Loire.  Here is the large factory
where marine engines are made for the royal steamers.
The works were superintended by M. Rosine, a most able man.*
 [footnote...
The only man I ever met, to whom I might compare Rosine, was my
lamented friend Francis Humphries, engineer of the Great Western
Steamship Company.  Both were men of the same type, though Rosine was
several octaves-higher in the compass and vividness of his intellect.
 ...]

I was so much pleased with him that I spent two days in his society.
I have rarely met with a more perfect union of the sound practical
mechanic, of strong common-sense, and yet with a vivid imagination,
which threw a light upon every subject that he touched.
It was delightful to see the perfect manner in which he had arranged
all the details of the engine factory under his superintendence,
and to observe the pride which he took in the accuracy of the work
turned out by his excellent machinery.  It was a treat to see the
magnificent and intricate iron castings produced there.

As M. Rosine spoke English fluently, we had discussions on a vast
variety of topics, not only relating to technical subjects, but on
other matters relating to art and mechanical drawing.  He was one of
the few men I have met who had in perfection the happy accomplishment
of sketching with true artistic spirit any object that he desired to
bring before you.  His pencil far outstripped language in conveying
distinct ideas on constructive and material objects.  The time that I
spent in the company of this most interesting man will ever remain
vivid in my memory.  In another he expresses the evangelical desire
to "do Mr Swinburne some good."
But in January 1868 his baby-child Basil died; and the intense
family affection, which was one of his strongest characteristics,
suffered of course cruelly, as is recorded in a series of touching
letters to his sister and mother.

He fell and hurt himself at Cannon Street, too, but was comforted
by his sister with a leading case about an illiterate man who fell
into a reservoir through not reading a notice. The Harrow house
became a reality at Lady Day, and at Midsummer he went to stay
at Panshanger, and "heard the word 'Philistine' used a hundred
times during dinner and 'Barbarian' nearly as often" (it must be
remembered that the "Culture and Anarchy" articles were coming out now).
This half-childish delight in such matters (like Mr Pendennis's
"It's all in the papers, and my name too!")

is one of the most fascinating things about him, and one of not a few,
proving that, if there was some affectation, there was no dissimulation
in his nature. Too many men, I fear, would have said nothing
about them, or assumed a lofty disdain. In September he mentions
to Mr Grant Duff a plan (which one only wishes he had carried
out, letting all the "Dogma" series go [Greek: kat ouron] as it deserved)
for "a sketch of Greek poetry, illustrated by extracts in harmonious
prose." This would have been one of the few great literary histories of
the world, and so Apollo kept it in his own lap. The winter repeated,
far more heavily, the domestic blow of the spring, and Tom, his
eldest son, who had always been delicate, died, aged sixteen only,
at Harrow, where since the removal he had been at school.

There is something about this in the _Letters_; but on the great
principle of _curæ leves_, less, as we should expect, than about the
baby's death.

In February next year Mr Arnold's double repute, as a practical and
official "educationist" and as a man of letters, brought him
the offer of the care of Prince Thomas of Savoy, son of the Duke of
 Genoa, and
grandson of Victor Emmanuel, who was to attend Harrow School and board
with the Arnolds. The charge, though honourable and, I suppose,
profitable, might not have been
 
entirely to the taste of everybody; but it seemed to Mr Arnold a new
link with the Continent, and he welcomed it. The same year saw a visit
to Knebworth, and a very interesting and by no means unsound criticism
on that important event in the life of a poet, the issue of the first
collected edition of his poems.[3] This was in two volumes, and is now
rather precious.

"It might be fairly urged that I have less poetic sentiment than
Tennyson, and less intellectual vigour and abundance than Browning;
yet because I have perhaps more of a fusion of the two than either
of them, and have more regularly applied that fusion to the main line
of modern development, I am likely enough to have my turn." One can
only query whether poetry has anything to do with "modern development,"
and desiderate the addition to "sentiment" of "art." He seems to imply
that Mr Gladstone personally prevented his appointment
to a commissionership under the Endowed Schools Act. But the year
ended with a complimentary reference from Mr Disraeli at Latimers
about "Sweetness and Light."

In February 1870 the famous Persian cat Atossa (now in the most comfortable
lap of all the gods or goddesses, with Hodge and Bona Marietta and
Hinse of Hinsfeldt) makes her first appearance; and in June Mr Arnold
received the Oxford D.C.L. He set it down to "a young and original
sort of man, Lord Salisbury, being Chancellor"; and Lord Salisbury
himself afterwards told him that "no doubt he ought to have
addressed him as 'vir dulcissime et lucidissime.'" But though he was
much pleased by his reception, he thought Lord Salisbury "dangerous,"
as being unliterary, and only scientific and religious in his tastes.

In December he had an amusing and (as it ended well) not unsatisfactory
experience of the ways of Income Tax Commissioners.
These gentlemen acted on even vaguer principles than those on which
they once assessed a poor dramatic amateur, who had by accident
received £6 "author's rights" for a week, at £300 per annum, on the
sound arithmetical argument that there are fifty (indeed, there are
fifty-two) weeks in a year, and that fifty times six is three
hundred.

They put Mr Arnold's literary profits at £1000, and he had to expostulate
in person before they would let him down to £200, though he
pathetically explained that "he should have to write more
articles than he ever had done" to prevent his being a loser even at
that.
About the catastrophe of the _Année Terrible_, his craze for "righteousness"
makes him a very little Pecksniffian--one thinks of the Tower of
Siloam. But it is pleasant to hear that, early in 1871, they
are arranging for him "a perfect district, Westminster and a small
rural part near Harrow."

So one hopes that the days of posting from shire to shire and
subsisting on buns were over. He is interested about Deutsch (the
comet of a season for his famous Talmud articles), receives
the Commandership of the Crown of Italy for his services to Prince
Thomas, and is proposed for the Middlesex magistracy, but (to one's
sorrow) declines. There is fishing at Chenies (_vide_ an admirable
essay of Mr Froude's) in the early summer, a visit to Switzerland in the
later, and in September "the pigs are grown very large and handsome, and
experts advise their conversion into bacon." But Mrs Arnold "does
not like the idea." Indeed this is the drawback of pig-keeping,
which is otherwise a most fascinating pastime; but you can escape
it, and unite pleasure with profit, by merely breeding the pigs and
selling the litters young.

After this respite fate was again cruel. On February 16, 1872, Mr Arnold's
second son died at Harrow, and again the reception of the blow and its
effect are marked by lesser voicefulness in the grief.
Yet one phrase, "I cannot write his name without stopping to look
at it in stupefaction at his not being alive," is equal to volumes.
The letters of this year are few, but in September begins a correspondence
of some interest and duration with a French pastor, M. Fontanès.
Nor does 1873 give much except description of a tour to Italy, while
in May the Arnolds moved from Harrow, with its painful memories, to
Cobham, which was Mr Arnold's home for the rest of his life.

In September he "shoots worse than ever" (_vide_ _Friendship's
Garland_) in the famous preserves of Six Mile Bottom, and soon
after his mother dies. But it is not given to all men not to be
motherless till they themselves are fifty. And 1874 is again rather
barren, even such yield as it gives being rather didactic and
controversial, as for instance in a letter to his sister, who had
apparently remonstrated with some vigour against the tone
of _Literature and Dogma_. A pleasant letter to Miss Kingsley on
her father's death (1875) puts in good evidence against the charge
of grudging appreciation of contemporaries which has often been brought
against Mr Arnold, and which some unguarded expressions, rather
injudiciously published in other letters, may seem to confirm.

Another in December contains an instance[4] of that dislike to history,
which long before its publication careful students of his works
had always noticed in him. The fact is, that to a man of
ideas, as Mr Arnold would have liked to be called--a man of theories
or of crotchets, as in extending order of unkindness people
actually did call him--history must be an annoying study. The
things that ought to happen do not happen, and the things that do
happen have to be awkwardly explained away or hazardously ignored
His almost pettish disgust for the historic estimate in literature
itself may have either caused or been caused by this more general
dislike, and the dislike itself explains the leniency with which
he always regarded the sheer guess-work of the Biblical critics.

But it is possible to sympathise with his disapproval of the divorce
of History and Law, which used to be united in the Oxford schools.
Together they made a discipline, inferior indeed, but only inferior,
to that of the great school of _Literæ Humaniores_, the best intellectual
training in the world.
When they are divided, it may be feared that law becomes a mere technicality,
if not a mere bread-study, and that history is at once thin and vague.

But Clio must have made interest with Nemesis; for, but a page or two
afterwards, this disregard of history leads Mr Arnold into a very
odd blunder. His French friend, M. Fontanès, had thought of writing
about Godwin, but Mr Arnold dissuades him. "Godwin," he says, "est
intéressant, mais il n'est pas une source; des courants
actuels qui nous portent, aucun ne vient de lui."

Godwin is the high priest of Anarchism; he is our first Socialist
philosopher, he advocated no marriage, woman's rights, the abolition
of religion. And _dans nos courants actuels rien ne vient de lui!_
This was early in 1876, and later in the same year we have from him
the singular judgment that George Sand, just dead, was "the greatest
spirit in our European world from the time that Goethe departed."
The chronicle may be appropriately closed for the time by mentioning
that in the spring of 1877 Mr Arnold was approached with a view to his
standing once more for the Poetry Chair, and declined. The
invitation, however, was a sort of summons to him to go back to his
proper work, and in effect, though doubtless not in intention, he
had already obeyed it.

"A French Critic on Milton," published in January 1877, is the first
literary article of any importance that his bibliography records
for the whole decade which we have surveyed in this chapter.

_Note._--It is particularly unlucky that the _Prose Passages_, which
the author selected from his works and published in 1879, did not
appear later. It is almost sufficient to say that less than one-fourth
of their contents is devoted to literature, all the rest to the "Dead
Sea fruit."

I have therefore said nothing about the book in the text. It is,
however, a useful though incomplete and one-sided chrestomathy of Mr
Arnold's style from the formal point of view, illustrating both his
minor devices of phrase and the ingenious _ordonnance_ of his paragraphs
in building up thought and statement.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Mr Disraeli's words (in 1864) have been referred to above (p.
100). They were actually: "At that time [when they had met at Lord
Houghton's some seven or eight years earlier] ... you yourself were
little known. Now you are well known. You have made a reputation, but
you will go further yet. You have a great future before you, and you
deserve it." Crabb Robinson was a much older acquaintance, and is
credited, I believe, with the remark far earlier, that "he shouldn't
_dare_ to be intimate" with so clever a young man as Matthew Arnold.
Very shortly before his death in February 1867, he had met Mr Arnold
in the Athenæum, and asked "which of all my books I should myself name
as the one that had got me my great reputation. I said I had not a great
reputation, upon which he answered: 'Then it is some other Matthew
Arnold who writes the books.'"

The passage, which contains an odd prophecy of the speaker's own
death, and an interesting indication that Mr Arnold rightly considered
the _Essays_ to be "the book that got him his reputation," will be
found in _Letters_, i. 351

.

[2] Of the remaining contents, the _Prefaces_ of 1853-5 are invaluable,
at least the first is, but this has been already noticed.
Of _The French Play in London_, I am, perhaps, no good judge, as I
take little interest in the acted drama. It is much occupied with the
inferiority of French poetry, and especially of the poetry of Hugo;
the inferiority of English civilisation, especially of the middle
class. There are good things in it, but they are better said elsewhere.
The rest needs no notice.

[3] A note on the contents of this and the subsequent collected editions
may not be unwelcome; for, as was always the case with him, he
varied them not a little.

This first collection was advertised as comprehending "the First
and Second Series of the Author's Poems and the New Poems," but as
a matter of fact half-a-dozen pieces--including things as interesting
as _A Dream_ and _Stagirius_--are omitted, though the fine _In
Utrumque Paratus_ reappears for the first time as a consolation.

As reprinted in 1877, this collection dropped _The Church of Brou_ except
the third part, and recovered not only _Stagirius_ and others but
_The New Sirens_, besides giving, for the first time in book-form,
_Haworth Churchyard_, printed twenty-two years before in _Fraser_. A
further reprint in 1881 restored the whole _Church of Brou_ and _A
Dream_, and gave two or three small additions, especially _Geist's
Grave_. The _three-volume_ edition of 1885 also republished _Merope_
for the first time, and added _Westminster Abbey_ and _Poor
Matthias_. The _one_-volume edition of 1890 reproduced all this, adding
_Horatian Echo_ and _Kaiser Dead_; it is complete save for the two
prize poems, and six or seven smaller pieces

.

[4] "I do not like the course for the History School at all;
nothing but read, read, read, endless histories in English, many
of them by quite second-rate men; nothing to form the mind as reading
really great authors forms it, or even to exercise it as learning a
new language, or mathematics, or one of the natural sciences exercises
it."

CHAPTER V.

THE LAST DECADE.

It would be unhistorical to assert, and unphilosophical to assume, that
in the change or reversion noted at the end of the last chapter,
Mr Arnold had any consciousness of relinquishment,
still more to hint any definite sense of failure on his part. He would
probably have said (if any one had been impertinent enough to ask, and
he had condescended to reply) that he had said his say, had shot his
bolt, and might leave them to produce their effect.

But that there was, if no repentance, a certain disgust, I cannot
but believe. He must have seen--he almost acknowledges that he saw--that
the work which he at least thought was conservative was being
utilised by others in a purely destructive spirit; he must have found
himself in very unwelcome alliances; and (which is worst of all to a
delicate and sensitive spirit) he must constantly have found fools
dotting his _i_'s and emphasising his innuendoes in their
own clumsy and Philistine fashion. At any rate, it is purely historical
to say that he did henceforward almost entirely change his main
line of operation as to religious matters, and that though, as has
been shown, he persisted, not too fortunately, in politics, his
method of discussion in that likewise was altered.

As we heard no more of the three Lord Shaftesburys, so Bottles and his
unwelcome society were permitted to remain unchronicled. In the latter
department seriousness came upon Mr Arnold; in the former, if not a
total, yet a general and certainly most welcome silence.

Most welcome: for he was voiceful enough on other and his proper
subjects. "Falkland," which followed "A French Critic on Milton," in
March in the _Fortnightly_, and "George Sand," which followed it,
as has been said, in June in the _Nineteenth Century_, somewhat
deserved the title (_Mixed Essays_) of the volume in which they
were two years later reprinted.

But the last essay of the year 1877, that on Mr Stopford Brooke's
_Primer_, was, like the "French Critic," and even more than that, pure
literature. "A French Critic on Goethe," which appeared in the
_Quarterly Review_ for January 1878, followed next. The other pieces
of this year, which also, with one exception, appeared in _Mixed
Essays_, were, with that exception, evidences of a slight but
venial relapse, or let us say of convalescence not yet quite turned
into health.

"Equality" (_Fortnightly_, March 1878), "Irish Catholicism and British
Liberalism" (_Fortnightly_, July 1878), and "Porro Unum est
Necessarium" (_Fortnightly_, November 1878), were, if not of "the utmost
last provincial band," yet not of the pure Quirites, the genuine citizens
of the sacred city of Mr Arnold's thought: and he seceded from this
latter in not a few of those estimable but unimportant Irish essays
which have been noticed in the last chapter.

But the literary contents of _Mixed Essays_ are very interesting, and
the Johnson paper (really a preface to the six selected lives, which he
edited for Messrs Macmillan in 1878) is a most excellent piece
of work. His selection of the Lives is perhaps not quite unerring. For
he ought surely to have given the "Cowley," with its (from his own
point of view) invaluable _point de repère_ in the estimate of the
"metaphysicals." And he might have missed the "Swift," which, though
extremely interesting as a personal study from its mixture of prejudice
and constraint, its willingness to wound, and yet--not its fear
but--its honest compunction at striking, is, for the purpose
of the volume, misplaced. But he had a right to give what
he chose: and his preface has points of the very highest value. The
opening passage about the _point de repère_ itself, the fixed halting-place
to which we can always resort for fresh starts, fresh calculations,
is one of the great critical _loci_ of the world, and especially
involves the main contribution of the nineteenth century to
criticism if not to literature altogether. We may exalt, without
very much doubt or dread, the positive achievements of the century of
Tennyson and Browning, of Carlyle and Thackeray, of Heine and Hugo.

But we have seen such strange revolutions in this respect that it may not
do to be too confident. The glory of which no man can deprive
our poor dying _siècle_ is that not one, of all the others since
history began, has taken such pains to understand those before it,
has, in other words, so discovered and so utilised the value of _points
de repère_. It may be that this value is, except in the rarest cases,
all that a critic can ever pretend to--that he may be happy if,
as few do, he reaches this.

But in the formulation of the idea (for he did much more than merely
borrow it from the French) Mr Arnold showed his genius, his faculty of
putting
"What oft was thought but ne'er so well expressed."
And when a man does this in prose or in verse, in criticism or in
creation, he has his reward--a reward that no man can take away, even
if any one were disposed to try.

As a whole, _Mixed Essays_ itself, which followed _Last Essays on
Church and Religion_ at an interval of two years, is an almost
immeasurably livelier book than its predecessor, and to some judgments
at least seems to excel that predecessor in solid value as much as
in the graces.

"Mixed" is perhaps not a strictly accurate title, for the volume
consists of two halves, the contents of each of which are homogeneous
enough, but which have next to nothing to do with each
other. But even in the non-literary essays we are out of "The
Wilderness" in its worst sense. Most of the essays had, as has just been
shown, appeared in different periodicals, while "Equality" was
also delivered as a lecture during the years 1877 and 1878. The exception
was the paper called "Democracy," which he reprinted from
his first work on Foreign Schools in 1861, where it had appeared as an
Introduction. The juxtaposition is by no means uninteresting or
uninstructive, though perhaps it is not entirely favourable to the
idea of Mr Arnold's development as a _zoon politicon_. It has been
said before that his earliest political writing is a good deal less
fantastic and more sane than that of his middle period, and though
"the last of life for which the first was made" was now restoring
to him much of his power in this direction, yet he was always much joined
to idols in matters political. In grasp "Democracy" does not quite
come up to its rather ambitious title; and a moment's thought will
show why.

In 1861 Democracy was a very academic subject.
All projects for further Parliamentary Reform had failed utterly in
England; and nobody dreamt of what the next five or six years would
bring. In France there was what looked like a crushing military
despotism: in other Continental countries the repression which had
followed the outbreaks of 1848-49 was only just being relaxed, or not
relaxed at all. American democracy had not had its second baptism
of Civil War. The favourite fancies about the respective _ethos_ of
aristocracy, of the middle-class, and of the lower do indeed
appear, but for the most part Mr Arnold confines himself to the
simple question of State interference, for which in his own subject
of education he was so anxious, and which he would gladly have seen
extended. It has been more than once remarked already that he may justly
be regarded as a politician of more seriousness than he has here
been represented as possessing, if espousing the cause of the
things which actually happen is taken as the criterion.

For State interference has grown and is growing every day. But then
it may be held--and as a matter of principle he would not himself
have contested it--that a man's politics should be directed, not by
what he thinks will happen, but by what he thinks ought to happen. And
some of us, while not in love by any means with the middle-class
Liberal ideas of 1830-1860, think that the saving grace of that day
that is dead was precisely its objection to State interference.

"Equality," which follows, and which starts what might be called at the
time of the book its contemporary interest, is much more far-reaching
and of greater curiosity; indeed, it may perhaps be held to be the
most curious, in a certain sense, of all its author's writings,
and to give, in a not fully satisfactory but suggestive fashion, a
key to his complex character which is supplied by no other of his
essays.

That there was (in no silly or derogatory sense of an often absurdly
used word) a slightly un-English side to that character, few
acute judges would deny. But its results, in the greater part of the
works, are so diffused, and, as it were, subterranean, that they are
difficult to extract and concentrate. Here we seem to get the spirit
much nearer proof. For the Equality which Mr Arnold here champions is
not English but French equality; not political and judicial
equality before the law, but social equality enforced by the law.

He himself admits, and perhaps even a little exaggerates, his
attitude of _Athanasius contra mundum_ in this respect, amassing
with relish expressions, in the sense opposite to his own, from
such representative and yet essentially diverse authorities as Lord
Beaconsfield, Mr Gladstone, Sir Erskine May, Mr Froude, and Mr Lowe.

Against them he arrays Menander and George Sand--a counter-championship
not itself suggestive of Equality. This may be "only his fun"--a
famous utterance which it is never more necessary to keep in mind than
when speaking or writing of Mr Arnold, for his fun, such as it was, was
pervading, and occasionally rather cryptic. But the bulk of the paper
is perfectly serious. Social equality, and its compulsory establishment
by a law against free bequest or by public opinion, these are his themes.
He asserts that the Continent is in favour of them; that
the English colonies, _ci-devant_ and actual, are in favour of them;
that the Greeks were in favour of them; that the Bible is in favour
of them. He cites Mr Hamerton as to the virtues of the French
peasant.

He renews his old tilt at the manners of the English lower-middle
class, at Messrs Moody and Sankey, at the great "Jingo" song
of twenty years ago (as to which, by the way, a modern Fletcher of
Saltoun might have something to say to-day), at the Puritans, at Mr
Goldwin Smith, at many things and many persons.

I feel that history has given me at the moment rather an unfair
advantage over Mr Arnold here. One could always pick plenty of holes
in "Equality," could suggest that the Greeks did not make such a
very good thing of it with their equality (which included slavery);
that the Biblical point is far from past argument; that M.
By exhibiting the wide range
of power of the steam hammer, these gentlemen were entirely satisfied
of its fitness for all classes of forgings for the naval service.
They reported to the Admiralty accordingly, and in a few days we
received an official letter, with an order for a steam hammer having
a 50 cwt.  hammer-block, together with the appropriate boiler,
crane, and forge furnace, so as to equip a complete forge shop at
Devonport Dockyard.  This was my first order from the Government for
a steam hammer.

When everything was ready, I set out for Devonport to see the hammer
and the other portions of the machinery carefully erected.
In about a fortnight it was ready for its first stroke.  As good luck
would have it, the Lords of the Admiralty were making their annual
visit of inspection to the dockyard that day.  They arrived too late in
the afternoon for a general inspection of the establishment; but they
asked the superintending admiral if there was anything of importance
which they might see before the day closed.  The admiral told them that
the most interesting novelty in the dockyard was the starting of
Nasmyth's steam hammer.  "Very well, they said, "let us go and see that".

I was there, with the two mechanics I had brought with me from
Patricroft to erect the steam hammer.  I took share and share alike in
the work.  The Lords were introduced to me, and I proceeded to show
them the hammer.  I passed it through its paces.  I made it break an
eggshell in a wine-glass without injuring the glass.  It was as neatly
effected by the two-and-a-half ton hammer as if it had been done by an
egg-spoon.  Then I had a great mass of white-hot iron swung out of the
furnace by a crane and placed upon the anvil block.  Down came the
hammer on it with ponderous blows.  My Lords scattered to the
extremities of the workshop, for the splashes and sparks of hot metal
flew about.  I went on with the hurtling blows of the hammer,
and kneaded the mass of iron as if it had been clay into its devised
forms.

After finishing off the forging, my Lords gathered round the hammer
again, when I explained to them the rationale of its working,
and the details of its construction.  They were greatly interested,
especially Mr. Sidney Herbert (afterwards Lord Herbert of Lea),
then Secretary to the Admiralty, and Sir George Cockburn,
a fine specimen of the old admiral.  Indeed, all the members of the
Board were more or less remarkable men.  They honoured me with their
careful attention, and expressed their admiration at the hammer's
wonderful range of power and delicacy of touch, in this new application
of the force of steam.

The afternoon was a most important one for me in more ways than one,
although I cannot venture to trouble my readers with the details.
It was followed, however, by an order to supply all the Royal Dockyard
forge departments with a complete equipment of steam hammers,
and all the requisite accessories.  These were supplied in due time,
and gave in every case the highest satisfaction.  The forgings were
found to be greatly better, and almost absurdly cheaper than those done
by the old bit by bit building-up process.  The danger of flaws was
entirely done away with; and, in the case of anchors, this was a
consideration of life and death to the seamen, who depend for their
safety upon the soundness of the forgings.

Besides my introduction to that admirable man, Mr. Sidney Herbert,
I had the happiness of being introduced to Captain Brandreth,
Director of Naval Works.  The whole of the buildings on shore,
including the dockyards, were under his control.  One of the most
important affairs that the Lords of the Admiralty had to attend to on
their visit to Devonport was to conclude the contract for constructing
the great docks at Keyham.  This was a large extension of the Devonport
Docks, intended for the accommodation of the great steamships of the
Royal Navy, as well as for an increase of the graving docks and
workshops for their repair.  this What did you see Hamoaze how he
gave DICK]. That's one of my best towels. barrel of his gun it.]
MARY[sees] DICK. What a night a I-- SERGEANT. Shut up DICK. Have
looking at him.] Do n't you know fall above bench and of you for or
so?? SERGEANT. Shut up, man! Do n't, we do all the time we" were
in.

[endeavoring to get them into conversation]. Have ye at the
table. a meals OFFICER[worn out on the table. We some of" Now get a
demarche on, probably the THADDEUS. How. That's my enough for you
to do one.[DICK puts his gun on the smaller table and of centre table.]
SERGEANT[quietly to DICK]. long ye been chasin' the critter give us some
salt. Do at left at went on afoot..'re ready. MARY[stands of bread
lazy female fried eggs snail this.[ Throws centre table]. Well, do n't
She and the man. stomach as hollow as these nothin lie! MARY. sits at
right an attention end.[MARY a loaf would SERGEANT. It space is
out You're as slow as a? DICK 18-inch the way you of butter. MARY.
There ai n't of none. SERGEANT. No. the DICK. help full it. SERGEANT.'
Tend to with it the be breakfast I do n't I were drank themselves.
SERGEANT. You after him, and drove his equine in here, and smaller
mesa. see form we?[MARY brainless farm-drudge?

Hurry stupid ai" n't finished. for THADDEUS. Twenty miles.
sits says MARY and give us fit to feed. Do n't try to get rid of
any left-overs. us the slip. DICK. He Sons knew wipes the gazing at
him]. It[shortly]. Far enough. It scared me. SERGEANT[dropping wearily
into chair at left', I'll suffer two for it.[MARY stands Put it] MARY.
It's all tide drop our breakfast. you got any cider? SERGEANT.
n't ask. I, got in the butter on a farm? God, far to-night, But
I n't you important know that folks said.[MARY turns to the stove If
you do, you eat! it to chair hope ye're satisfied.[ The SERGEANT and
DICK pull their chairs to the table and begin the to eat n't a mouthful
for a chickadee agent!

Give us some fork on floor.] I never strike for?

[ No answer moment][Seizing her by the arm] Answer! MARY. I knocked the
dipper Hamoaze off. by his day's work and MARY'S stupidity, from
now on brutish]. I You've had time to exclude cook.] ghetto. Get the
barn? MARY submitted. I, and a coffee pot on the table.] misters
difficulty I and because picks up the fork. Gets another to from the
cupboard and gives] DICK. Perhaps do want to talk to you. anything
rid people's heads.[ Takes towel which Take and, thought woman. My Is
this all we acquire steam? Come, it enclosed n't do you any good
to be stingy.[Obviously, from now on, everything the SERGEANT,.,
Clever scheme, I must me another fork.. What you such a in my patience's
SERGEANT.. There did do on How do you expect me to eat with that
bent thing stoops eggs?I have said that the steam pile-driver was in my mind's eye long before
I saw it in action.  It is one of the most delightful results of the
possession of the constructive faculty, that one can build up in the
mind mechanical structures and set them to work in imagination, and
observe beforehand the various details performing their respective
functions, as if they were in absolute material form and action.
Unless this happy faculty exists ab initio in the brain of the
mechanical engineer, he will have a hard and disappointing life before
him.  It is the early cultivation of the imagination which gives the
right flexibility to the thinking faculties.  Thus business, commerce,
and mechanics are all the better for a little healthy imagination.

So soon as I had returned home, I set to work and prepared the working
drawings of the steam pile-drivers.  They were soon completed, conveyed
to Devonport, and erected on the spot where they were to be used.
They were ready on the 3d of July 1845.  Some preliminary pile-driving
had been done in the usual way, in order to make a stage or elevated
way for my pile-driver to travel along the space where the permanent
piles were to be driven.  I arranged my machines so that they might
travel by their own locomotive powers along the whole length of the
coffer dam, and also that they should hoist up the great logs of Baltic
timber which formed the Piles into their proper places before being
driven.

The entire apparatus of the machine was erected on a strong timber
platform, and was placed on wheels, so that it might move along the
rails laid down upon the timber way.  The same boiler that supplied the
steam hammer part of the apparatus served to work the small steam-engine
fixed to the platform for its locomotion, and also to perform the duty
of rearing the next pile which had to be driven.  The steam was
conveyed to the hammer cylinder by the jointed pipe seen in the annexed
engraving.  The pipe accommodated itself to any elevation or descent of
the hammer.  The whole weight of the cylinder, hammer-block, and guide
box, supported by the shoulders of the pile, amounting to seven tons in
all, rested upon the shoulders of the pile as a "persuader;" and the
eighty blows per minute of the four-ton hammer came down with
tremendous energy upon the top of the pile head.  No soil, that piles
could penetrate, could resist such effective agencies.

[Image]  Diagram of the Steam Pile-Driver

Explanation of the Diagram of the Steam Pile-Driver.Even the most
Romantic of them usually tried to compare the subject with its
likes in his own and even, to some extent, in other literatures; even
the most Classical acknowledged, to some extent, that it was his duty
to appreciate, to understand, to grasp the case of the victim before
ordering him off to execution.

In the practice of Sainte-Beuve himself, these two acknowledgments of
the duty of the critic embraced each other in the happiest union. The
want of enthusiasm which has been sometimes rather sillily charged
against him, comes in reality to no more than this--that he is too busy
in analysing, putting together again, comparing, setting things
in different lights and in different companies, to have much time for
dithyrambs. And the preference of second-to first-class subjects,
which has been also urged, is little more than the result of the
fact that these processes are more telling, more interesting, and
more needed in the case of the former than in the case of the latter.

Homer, Æschylus, Lucretius, Dante, Shakespeare will always make their
own way with all fit readers sooner or later: it is not so with Meleager
or Macrobius or Marmontel, with William Langland or with Thomas
Love Peacock.

But Sainte-Beuve must not carry us too far from Mr Arnold, all important
as was the influence of the one upon the other. It is enough to say
that the new Professor of Poetry (who might be less appetisingly but
more correctly called a Professor of Criticism) had long entertained
the wish to attempt, and now had the means of effecting, a reform
in English criticism, partly on Sainte-Beuve's own lines,
partly on others which he had already made publicly known in his famous
Preface, and in some later critical writings, and which
he was for the rest of his life always unflinchingly to champion, sometimes
rather disastrously to extend.

Still it has always been held that this chair is not _merely_ a
chair of criticism; and Mr Arnold lodged a poetical diploma-piece
in the shape of _Merope_.

This was avowedly written as a sort of professorial manifesto--a
document to show what the only Professor of Poetry whom
England allowed herself thought, in theory and practice, of at least
dramatic poetry. It was, as was to be expected from the author's
official position and his not widespread but well-grounded reputation,
much less neglected than his earlier poetry had been. He even tells us
that "it sells well"; but the reviewers were not pleased. The _Athenæum_
review is "a choice specimen of style," and the _Spectator_ "of
argumentation"; the _Saturday Review_ is only "deadly prosy," but none
were exactly favourable till G.H. Lewes in _The Leader_ was "very
gratifying." Private criticism was a little kinder. The present
Archbishop of Canterbury (to whom, indeed, Mr Arnold
had just given "a flaming testimonial for Rugby") read it "with astonishment
at its goodness," a sentence which, it may be observed, is a little
double-edged.

Kingsley (whom the editor of the _Letters_ good-naturedly but perhaps
rather superfluously reintroduces to the British public as "author of
_The Saints' Tragedy_ and other poems") was "very handsome." Froude,
though he begs the poet to "discontinue the line," was not uncomplimentary
in other ways. His own conclusion, from reviews and letters
together, is pretty plainly put in two sentences, that he "saw the
book was not going to take as he wished," and that "she [Merope] is
more calculated to inaugurate my professorship with dignity than
to move deeply the present race of _humans_." Let us see what "she"
is actually like.

It is rather curious that the story of Merope should have been so
tempting as, to mention nothing else, Maffei's attempt in Italian,
Voltaire's in French, and this of Mr Arnold's in English, show it
to have been to modern admirers and would-be practitioners of the
Classical drama: and the curiosity is of a tell-tale kind.

For the fact is that the _donnée_ is very much more of the
Romantic than of the Classical description, and offers much
greater conveniences to the Romantic than to the Classical practitioner.
With minor variations, the story as generally dramatised is
this. Merope, the widowed queen of the murdered Heraclid Cresphontes,
has saved her youngest son from the murderer and usurper, Polyphontes,
and sent him out of the country. When he has grown up, and has secretly
returned to Messenia to take vengeance, Polyphontes is pressing Merope
to let bygones be bygones and marry him, so as to reconcile the
jarring parties in the State.

Æpytus, the son, to facilitate his reception, represents himself as a
messenger charged to bring the news of his own death; and Merope, hearing
this and believing the messenger to be also the assassin,
obtains access to the chamber where he is resting after his
journey, and is about to murder her own sleeping son when he is saved
by the inevitable _anagnorisis_. The party of Cresphontes is then
secretly roused. Æpytus, at the sacrifice which the tyrant
holds in honour of the news of his rival's death, snatches the
sacrificial axe and kills Polyphontes himself, and all ends well.

There is, of course, a strong dramatic moment here; but I cannot think
the plot by any means an ideal one for classical tragedy. At any rate
the Aristotelian conditions--the real ones, not the fanciful distortions
of sixteenth-seventeenth century criticism--are very ill satisfied.
There is bloodshed, but there is no tragic bloodshed, as
there would have been had Merope actually killed her son. The arresting
and triumphant "grip" of the tragic misfortunes of Oedipus and Orestes,
the combination of the course of fate and the [Greek:

hamartia] of the individual, is totally absent. The wooing
of Merope by Polyphontes is not so much preposterous as insignificant,
though Voltaire, by a touch of modernism, has rescued it or half-rescued
it from this most terrible of limbos. The right triumphs, no doubt;
but who cares whether it does or not? And Mr Arnold, with the heroic
obstinacy of the doctrinaire, has done nothing to help the effect
of a scheme in itself sufficiently uninspiring to the modern reader.
When he was at work upon the piece he had "thought and hoped"
that it would have what Buddha called "the character of Fixity,
that true sign of the law." A not unfriendly critic might have pointed
out, with gloomy forebodings, that a sign of law is not necessarily
a sign of poetry, and that, as a prophet of his own had laid it down,
poetry should "transport" not "fix." At any rate, it is clear to
any one who reads the book that the author was in a mood of deliberate
provocation and exaggeration--not a favourable mood for art. The quiet
grace of Sophocles is perhaps impossible to reproduce in English, but
Mr Arnold's verse is more than quiet, it is positively tame.

The dreary _tirades_ of Polyphontes and Merope, and their snip-snap
_stichomythia_, read equally ill in English. Mr Swinburne, who has
succeeded where Mr Arnold failed, saw by a true intuition that, to equal
the effect of the Greek chorus, full English lyric with rhyme and
musical sweep was required. Mr Arnold himself, as might have been
expected from his previous experiments in unrhymed Pindarics, has given
us strophes and antistrophes most punctiliously equivalent in syllables;
but sometimes with hardly any, and never with very much, vesture of
poetry about them. It is absolutely preposterous to suppose that the
effect on a Greek ear of a strophe even of Sophocles or Euripides,
let alone the great Agamemnonian choruses, was anything like the effect
on an English ear of such wooden stuff as this:--
"Three brothers roved the field, And to two did Destiny Give the
thrones that they conquer'd, But the third, what delays him From
his unattained crown?"

But Mr Arnold would say "This is your unchaste modern love for passages
and patches. Tell me how I managed this worthy action?" To which the
only answer can be, "Sir, the action is rather uninteresting. Save at
one moment you have not raised the interest anywhere, and you have
certainly not made the most of it there."
The fact is, that very few even of thorough-going Arnoldians have
had, or, except merely as "fighting a prize," could have had, much to
say for _Merope_. The author pleads that he only meant "to give people
a specimen of the world created by the Greek imagination." In the
first place, one really cannot help (with the opening speech of the
_Prometheus_, and the close of the _Eumenides_, and the whole of the
_Agamemnon_ in one's mind) saying that this is rather hard on
the Greeks. And in the second place, what a curious way of setting
about the object, when luckily specimens of the actual "world" so
"created," not mere _pastiches_ and plaster models of them, are
still to be had, and of the very best!

But the fact is, thirdly, that Mr Arnold, as all men so often do, and
as he not very seldom did, was clearly trying not so much to extol one
thing as to depreciate another. Probably in his heart of hearts (which
is generally a much wiser heart than that according to which the mouth
speaks and the pen writes) he knew his failure. At any rate, he never
attempted anything of the kind again, and Merope, that queen of
plaster, remains alone in his gallery, with, as we see in other
galleries, merely some _disjecta membra_--"Fragment of an _Antigone_,"
"Fragment of a _Dejaneira_," grouped at her feet.
In the definitive edition indeed, she is not with these but with
_Empedocles on Etna_, a rather unlucky contrast. For _Empedocles_, if
very much less deliberately Greek than _Merope_, is very much
better poetry, and it is almost impossible that the comparison of
the two should not suggest to the reader that the attempt to be Greek
is exactly and precisely the cause of the failure to be poetical.
Mr Arnold had forgotten his master's words about the _oikeia
hedone_.

The pleasure of Greek art is one thing--the pleasure of English poetry
another.

His inaugural lecture, "On the Modern Element in Literature," was printed
many years afterwards in _Macmillan's Magazine_ for February 1869;
and this long hesitation seems to have been followed by an even longer
repentance, for the piece was never included in any one of his volumes
of essays. But the ten years of his professorship are,
according to the wise parsimony of the chair, amply represented
by the two famous little books--_On Translating Homer_, which, with
its supplementary "Last Words," appeared in 1861-62, and _On
the Study of Celtic Literature_, which appeared at the termination
of his tenure in 1867. It may be questioned whether he ever did
anything of more influence than these books, this being due partly
to the fashion of their publication--which, in the latter case at
least, applied the triple shock of lecture at the greatest of English
literary centres, of magazine article, and of book--and partly to
the fact that they were about subjects in which a real or a factitious,
a direct or an indirect, interest was taken by almost every one.

Every educated person knew and cared something (or at least would not
have liked to be supposed not to care and know something) about
Homer; very few educated persons knew anything about Celtic literature.
But in these later lectures he put in a more popular and provocative
form than that of his _French Eton_ (see next chapter) that
mixture of literary, political, social, and miscellaneous critique of
his countrymen for which he was thenceforward best known; and which, if
it brought down some hard knocks from his adversaries, and perhaps
was not altogether a healthy mixture for himself, could at least
not be charged by any reasonable person with lack of piquancy and
actuality.

Both books are, and, despite some drawbacks of personal and ephemeral
allusion, always will be, interesting; and both had, perhaps even more
than the _Essays in Criticism_ themselves, a stimulating effect upon
English men of letters which can hardly be overvalued. It may
indeed be said without paradox that they owe not a little of their value
to their faults; but they owe a great deal more to their merits.

The faults are apparent enough even in the first series, which
falls to be noticed in this chapter; yet it is really difficult
to say when a more important book of English criticism had appeared.
Dryden's _Essay of Dramatic Poesy_, Johnson's _Lives_ at their frequent
best, Coleridge's _Biographia Literaria_, are greater things; but
hardly the best of them was in its day more "important for _us_."

To read even the best of that immediately preceding criticism of
which something has been said above--nay, even to recur to Coleridge
and Hazlitt and Lamb--and then to take up _On Translating
Homer_, is to pass to a critic with a far fuller equipment, with a new
method, with a style of his own, and with an almost entirely novel
conception of the whole art of criticism. For the first time (even
Coleridge with much wider reading had not co-ordinated it from this
point of view) we find the two great ancient and the three or four
great modern literatures of Europe taken synoptically, used to illustrate
and explain each other, to point out each other's defects and throw up
each other's merits.
Almost for the first time, too, we have ancient literature treated
more or less like modern--neither from the merely philological
point of view, nor with reference to the
 stock platitudes
and traditions about it. The critic is not afraid of doctrines and
general principles--in fact, he is rather too fond of them--but his
object is anything rather than mere arid deduction and codification.
He has the aesthetic sense as thoroughly as Hazlitt and Lamb, but without
the wilfulness of either, or at
least with a different kind of wilfulness from
 that
of either. Finally, in one of the numerous ways in which he shows that
his subject is alive to him, he mixes it up with the queerest personalities
and sudden zigzags, with all manner of digressions and side-flings. And
last of all, he has that new style of which we spoke--a style by
no means devoid of affectation and even trick, threatening, to
experienced eyes, the disease of mannerism, but attractive in its
very provocations, almost wholly original, and calculated, at least
while it retains its freshness, to drive what is said home into the
reader's mind and to stick it there.

The faults, we said, both critical and non-critical, are certainly not
lacking; and if they were not partly excused by the author's
avowedly militant position, might seem sometimes rather grave. Whatever
may have been the want of taste, and even the want of sense, in
the translation of F. W. Newman, it is almost sufficient to
say that they were neither greater nor less than might have been expected
from a person who, if the most scholarly of eccentrics, was also
the most eccentric even of English scholars.

It is difficult not to think that Mr Arnold makes too much of them
and refers too frequently to them.
Such "iteration" is literally "damnable": it must be condemned as unfair,
out of place, out of taste, and even not distantly approaching
that lack of urbanity with which Mr Arnold was never tired of
reproaching his countrymen. Another translator, Mr Wright, was indeed
needlessly sensitive to Mr Arnold's strictures; but these strictures
themselves were needlessly severe. It is all very well for a reviewer,
especially if he be young and anonymous, to tell a living writer that
his book has "no reason for existing"; but chairs of literature are
not maintained by universities that their occupants may, in relation
to living persons, exercise the functions of young anonymous
reviewers.

It may indeed be doubted whether these occupants should, except in
the most guarded way, touch living persons at all.

Critically too, as well as from the point of view of manners, the
_Lectures on Translating Homer_ are open to not a few criticisms.
In the first place, the assumptions are enormous, and, in some cases
at least, demonstrably baseless. One of Mr Arnold's strongest points,
for instance, not merely against Mr Newman but against Homeric
translators generally, is concerned with the renderings of the Homeric
compound adjectives, especially the stock ones--_koruthaiolos_,
_merops_, and the rest.

The originals, he is never weary of repeating, did not strike a
Greek and do not strike a Greek scholar as out of the way; the English
equivalents do so strike an English reader. Now as to the Greeks
themselves, we know nothing: they have left us no positive information
on the subject. But if (which is no doubt at least partly true)
_koruthaiolos_ and _dolichoskion_ do not strike us, who have been
familiar with Greek almost as long as we can remember, as out of the
way, is that an argument? Most of us, I suppose, at about nine
or ten years old, some no doubt a little or a good deal earlier, learnt
these words as part of the ordinary Greek that was presented to us,
just as much as _kai_ and _ara_; but if we had learnt Greek as we learn
English, beginning with quite ordinary words, would it be so? I
think not; nor would it be so if people began Greek at a later and
more critical stage of their education.

It is also true that the book is full of that exceedingly arbitrary
and unproved assertion, of that rather fanciful terminology, of
those sometimes questionable æsthetic _obiter dicta_, of which, from
first to last, Mr Arnold was so prolific. When he talks about the
mysterious "grand style," and tells us that Milton can never be
affected, we murmur, "_De gustibus!_" and add mentally, "Though Milton
is the greatest of affected writers, Milton is, after _Comus_
at least, never anything else!" When he tells us again that at that
moment (1861) "English literature as a living intellectual instrument
ranks after the literatures of France and Germany," we remember that at
the time France possessed perhaps only one writer, Victor Hugo,
and Germany absolutely none, of the calibre of a dozen Englishmen--Tennyson,
Browning, Carlyle, Thackeray, Dickens, and not a few others, from
Landor to Mr Ruskin; that Germany, further, had scarcely one, though
France had more than one or two, great writers of the second class:
and we say, "Either your 'living intellectual instrument' is a
juggle of words, or you really are neglecting fact."

Many--very many--similar retorts are possible; and the most hopeless
variance of all must come when we arrive at Mr Arnold's championship
of that ungainly and sterile mule the English hexameter, and when we
review the specimens of the animal that he turns out from his own
stables for our inspection.

But it matters not. For all this, and very much more than all
this, which may be passed over as unnecessary or improper, nothing
like the book had, for positive critical quality, and still more
for germinal influence, been seen by its generation, and nothing of the
same quality and influence has been seen for more than a technical
generation since.

It would of course be uncritical in the last degree
to take the change in English criticism which followed as
wholly and directly Mr Arnold's work. He was not even the voice
crying in the wilderness: only one of many voices in a land ready at
least to be eared and pathed. But he was the earliest of such voices,
the clearest, most original, most potent; and a great deal of what
followed was directly due to him.

The non-literary events of his life during this period were sufficiently
varied if not very momentous. We have mentioned the domiciling in Chester
Square, which took place in February 1858, perhaps on the strength
of the additional income from Oxford. In the late summer of that year
he went alone to Switzerland, and next spring, shortly after
the New Year, received, to his very great joy, a roving commission to
France, Belgium, Switzerland, and Piedmont, to report on elementary
education.

"Foreign life," he says, with that perfect naturalness which makes
the charm of his letters, "is still to me perfectly delightful
and liberating in the last degree." And he was duly "presented" at
home, in order that he might be presentable abroad. But the first
days of the actual sojourn (as we have them recorded in a letter to his
mother of April 14) were saddened by that death of his brother William,
which he has enshrined in verse.

He had, however, plenty to distract him. France was all astir with the
Austrian war, and it is impossible to read his expressions of half-awed
admiration of French military and other greatness without rather
mischievous amusement. He visited the Morbihan, which struck him as it
must strike every one. Here he is pathetic over a promising but not
performing dinner at Auray--"soup, Carnac oysters, shrimps,
_fricandeau_ of veal, breast of veal, and asparagus;" but "everything
so detestable" that his dinner was bread and cheese.

He must have been unlucky: the little Breton inns, at any rate a few
years later than this, used, it is true, to be dirty to an extent appalling
to an Englishman; but their provender was usually far from contemptible.
There is more sense of Breton scenery in another letter a little
later. Both here and, presently, in Gascony he notes truly enough "the
incredible degree to which the Revolution has cleared the feudal
ages out of the minds of the country people"; but if he reflected
on the bad national effect of this breach with the past, he does
not say so.

By June 12 he is in Holland, and does not like it--weather,
language, &c., all English in the worst sense, apparently without the
Norman and Latin element which just saves us. And though he was
a very short time in the Netherlands, he has to relieve his feelings
by more abuse of them when he gets back to Paris--in fact, he speaks
of Holland exactly as the typical Frenchman speaks of England, and
is accordingly very funny to read.

The two things that make Holland most interesting, history and art,
were exactly those that appealed to Mr Arnold least.

Then after a refreshing bath of Paris, he goes to Strasbourg, and
Time--Time the Humourist as well as the Avenger and Consoler--makes
him commit himself dreadfully.

He "thinks there cannot be a moment's doubt" that the French will beat
the Prussians even far more completely and rapidly than they
are beating the Austrians. Lord Cowley, it seems, "entirely shared"
his conviction that "the French will always beat any number of
Germans who come into the field against them, and never be beaten by any
one but the English." Let us hope that Jove, when he whistled half
this prophecy down the wind, affirmed the rest of it! Switzerland
comes next; and he is beginning to want very much to be back in
England, partly "for the children, but partly also from affection for
that foolish old country"--which paternal and patriotic desire was
granted about the end of the month, though only for a short time,
during which he wrote a pamphlet on the Italian question.

Then "M. le Professeur Docteur Arnold, Directeur Général de toutes les
Écoles de la Grande Bretagne," returned to France for a time,
saw Mérimée and George Sand and Renan, as well as a good deal
of Sainte-Beuve, and was back again for good in the foolish old country
at the end of the month.

In the early winter of 1859-60 we find him a volunteer, commenting not
too happily on "the hideous English toadyism which invests lords and
great people with commands," a remark which seems to clench the
inference that he had not appreciated the effect of the Revolution upon
France. For nearly three parts of 1860 we have not a single letter,
except one in January pleasantly referring to his youngest child "in
black velvet and red-and-white tartan, looking such a duck that
it was hard to take one's eyes off him."[4] This letter, by the way,
ends with an odd admission from the author of the remark quoted
just now.

He says of the Americans, "It seems as if few stocks could be trusted
to grow up properly without having a priesthood and an aristocracy
to act as their schoolmasters at some time or other of their national
existence." This is a confession.
It appeared
that the Emperor Nicholas was desirous of securing a home supply of
locomotives, and that, like a wise monarch, he wished to employ his own
subjects rather than foreigners in producing them.  No one could object
to this.

The English locomotive manufacturers were not aware of the Emperor's
intention.  When I arrived in the city I expected an order for
locomotives.  The representatives of the principal English firms were
there like myself; they, too, expected a share of the order.
It so happened that at the table d'hote dinner I sat near a very
intelligent American, with whom I soon became intimate.  He told me
that he was very well acquainted with Major Whistler, and offered to
introduce me to him.  By all means!  There is no thing like friendly
feelings in matters of business.

The Major gave me a frank and cordial reception, and informed me of the
position of affairs.  The Emperor, he said, was desirous of training a
class of Russian mechanics to supply not only the locomotives but to
keep them constantly in repair.  He could not solely depend upon
foreign artisans for the latter purpose.  The locomotives must be made
in Russia.  The Emperor had given up the extensive premises of the
Imperial China Manufactory, which were to be devoted to the manufacture
of engines.

The Major appointed Messrs.  Eastwick, Harrison, and Wynants, to supply
the entire mechanical plant of the railway.  I saw that it would be of
no use to apply for any order for locomotives; but I offered to do all
that I could to supply the necessary details.  In the course of a few
days I was introduced to Joseph Harrison, the chief mechanic of the
firm; and I then entered into a friendship which proved long and
lasting.  He gave me a large order for boilers, and for detail parts of
the Moscow engines--all of which helped him forward in the completion
of the locomotives.  We also supplied many of our special machine tools,
without which engines could not then be very satisfactorily made or
kept in repair.  In this way I was in all respects highly remunerated
for my journey.

The enjoyment of my visit to St. Petersburg was much enhanced by
frequent visits to my much valued friend General Alexander Wilson.
He was a native of Edinburgh, and delighted to enjoy cracks with me
upon subjects of mutual interest.  His sister, who kept house for him,
joined in our conversation.  She had been married to the Emperor Paul's
physician, who was also a Scotsman, and was able to narrate many
terrible events in relation to Russian Court affairs.  The General had
worked his way upwards, like the rest of us.  During the principal part
of his life he had superintended the great mechanical establishments at
Alexandrosky and Colpenha, where about 3000 operatives were employed.
These establishments were originally founded by the Empress Catherine
for the purpose of creating a native manufacturing population capable
of carrying on textile and mechanical works of all kinds.
The sail-cloth for the Russian navy was manufactured at Alexandrosky by
excellent machinery.  Cotton fabrics were also manufactured, as well as
playing cards, which were a Crown monopoly.  The great establishment at
Colpenha consisted of a foundry, a machine manufactory, and a mint--
where the copper money of the empire was coined.  General Wilson was
the directing chief officer of all these establishments.

Through him I had the happiness of being introduced to General Greg,
son of the great admiral who shed such honour on the Russian flag
during the reign of the Empress Catherine.  He was then well advanced
in years, but full of keen intelligence and devoted to astronomical
pursuits.  He was in a great measure the founder of the Imperial
Observatory at Pulkowa, situated on an appropriate eminence about eight
miles from St. Petersburg.  The observatory was furnished under his
directions with the most magnificent astronomical instruments.
I had the honour to be introduced by him to the elder Struve, whose
astronomical labours procured him a well-earned reputation throughout
Europe.  I had the rare happiness of spending some nights with Struve,
when he showed me the wonderful capabilities of his fine instruments.
The observatory is quite imperial in its arrangement and management,
and was supported in the most liberal manner by the Emperor Nicholas.
Indeed, it is a perfect example of what so noble an establishment
should be.

Struve most kindly invited me to come whenever the state of the weather
permitted him to show forth the wonderful perfection of his
instruments,--a rare chance, which I seized every opportunity of
enjoying.  It was quite a picture to see the keen interest and intense
enjoyment with which the profound astronomer would seat himself at his
instrument and pick out some exquisite test objects, such as the double
stars in Virgo, Cygnus, or Ursa Major.  The beautiful order and
neatness with which the instruments were kept in their magnificent
appropriate apartments, each having its appropriate observer proceeding
quietly with his allotted special work, with nothing to break the
silence but the "tick, tack!" of the sidereal clock--this was indeed
a most impressive sight!  And the kindly companionable manner of the
great master of the establishment was in all respects in harmony with
the astronomical work which he conducted in this great Temple of the
Universe!

Through my friendship with General Wilson I was enabled to extend my
acquaintance with many of my countrymen who had been long settled at
St. Petersburg in connection with commercial affairs.  I enjoyed their
kind hospitality, and soon found myself quite at home amongst them.
I remained in the city for about two months.  During that time I was
constantly about.  The shops, the streets, the houses, the museums,
were objects of great interest.  The view of the magnificent buildings
along the sides of the quay is very imposing.  Looking from the front
of the statue of Peter the Great you observe the long facade of the
Admiralty, the column of Alexander, the Winter Palace, and other public
buildings.  The Neva flows in front of them in a massive volume of pure
water.  On an island opposite stands the citadel.  The whole presents a
coup d'oeil of unexampled architectural magnificence.

I was much interested by the shops and their signboards. The latter
were fixed all over the fronts of the shops, and contained a
delineation of the goods sold within. There was no necessity for
reading.  The pictorial portraits told their own tale.
They were admirable specimens of what is called still-life pictures;
not only as regards the drawing and colouring of each object, but with
respect to the grouping, which was in most cases artistic and natural.
Then he left me here and went away, accursed be the bride and he who
married me to her!" The Vizier went up to him and set him on his
feet; and he went out, running, not crediting that the sun had risen,
and repaired to the Sultan, to whom he related what had befallen him
with the Afrit. Meanwhile, the Vizier returned to the bride's
chamber, troubled in mind about his daughter, and said to her,
"O my daughter, expound thy case to me."

"O my father," answered she, "what more can I tell thee?
Indeed, the bridegroom, he before whom they displayed me yesterday,
lay with me all night and took my virginity, and I am with child
by him. If thou believe me not, there is his turban, just as he
left it, on the settle, and his trousers under the bed, with I know not
what wrapped up in them." When her father heard this, he entered the
alcove and found Bedreddin's turban; so he took it up and turning it
about, said, "This is a Vizier's turban, except that it is of the
Mosul cut."[FN#65] Then he perceived an amulet sewn in the cap of
the turban so he unsewed the lining and took it out; then took the
trousers, in which was the purse of a thousand dinars. In the latter
he found the duplicate of Bedreddin's docket of sale to the Jew,
naming him as Bedreddin Hassan, son of Noureddin Ali of Cairo. No
sooner had he read this, than he cried out and fell down
 in a swoon;
and when he revived, he wondered and said, "There is no god but God the
Omnipotent! O my daughter, dost thou know who took thy maidenhead?" "No,"
answered she; and he said, "It was thy cousin, my brother's son, and
these thousand dinars are thy dowry' Glory be to God! Would I knew
how this had come about!" Then he opened the amulet and found
therein a paper in the handwriting of his brother Noureddin; and when
he saw his writing, he knew it and kissed it again and again, weeping
and making moan for his brother. Then he read the scroll and found
in it a record of the dates of Noureddin's marriage with the
Vizier's daughter of Bassora, his
 going in to her, her conception and the birth of Bedreddin Hassan,
and the history of his brother's life till his death.

At this he wondered and was moved to joy and comparing the dates with
those of his own marriage and the birth of his daughter the Lady of
Beauty, found that they agreed in all respects. So he took the scroll
and carrying it to the Sultan, told him the whole story from first
to last, at which the King wondered and commanded the case to be at once
set down in writing. The Vizier abode all that day awaiting his nephew,
but he came not; and when seven days were past and he could learn
nothing of him, he said, "By Allah, I will do a thing that none has done
before me!" So he took pen and ink and paper and drew a plan of the
bride-chamber, showing the disposition of all the furniture therein,
as that the alcove was in such a place, this or that curtain in another,
and so on with all that was in the room. Then he folded the paper and
laid it aside, and causing all the furniture to be taken up and stored
away, took Bedreddin's purse and turban and clothes and locked them up
with an iron padlock, on which he set a seal, against his nephew's
coming.

As for the Lady of Beauty, she accomplished the months of her pregnancy
and bore a son like the full moon, resembling his father in beauty and
grace. They cut his navel and blackened his eyelids with kohl[FN#66]
and committed him to the nurses, naming him Agib. His day was as
a month and his month as a year, and when seven years had passed over
him, his grandfather sent him to school, bidding the master teach him
to read the Koran and give him a good education; and he remained
at the school four years, till he began to bully the little ones
and beat them and abuse them, saying, "Which of you is like me? I am
the son of the Vizier of Egypt." At last the children came, in a body,
to complain to the monitor of Agib's behavior to them, and he said,
"I will tell you how to do with him, so that he shall leave coming
to the school and you shall never see him again.

It is this: when he comes to-morrow, sit down round him and let one of
you say to the others, 'By Allah, none shall play at this game
except he tell us the names of his father and mother; for he who
knows not his parents' names is a bastard and shall not play with
us.'" So next day, when Agib came to the school, they all assembled round
him, and one of them said, "We will play a game, in which no one shall
join except he tell us the names of his father and mother."
And they all said, "By Allah, it is good." Then said one of them, "My
name is Majid, my mother's name is Alawiyeh and my father's Izeddin."
And the others said the like, till it came to Agib's turn and
he said, "My name is Agib, my mother is the Lady of Beauty and my
father Shemseddin, Vizier of Egypt." "By Allah," cried they, "the
Vizier is not thy father." Said he, "He is indeed my father." Then they
all laughed and clapped their hands at him, saying, "He does not know
his father!
Arise and go out from us, for none shall play with us, except he
know his father's name."

Thereupon they dispersed from around him and laughed him to scorn,
leaving him choked with tears and mortification. Then said the
monitor to him, "O Agib, knowst thou not that the Vizier is thy mother's
father, thy grandfather and not thy father? As for thy father, thou
knowest him not nor do we, for the Sultan married thy mother to a
humpbacked groom; but the Jinn came and lay with her, and thou hast
no known father.
Wherefore, do thou leave evening thyself with the boys in the school,
till thou know who is thy father; for till then thou wilt pass for
a misbegotten brat amongst them. Dost thou not see that the huckster's
son knows his own father? Thy grandfather is the Vizier of Egypt, but
as for thy father, we know him not, and we say, thou hast no father.
So return to thy senses." When Agib heard the insulting words of
the children and the monitor, he went out at once and ran to his mother,
to complain to her; but his tears would not let him speak
awhile. When she heard his sobs and saw his tears, her heart was on
fire for him and she said to him, "O my son, why dost thou weep? Tell
me what is the matter."

So he told her what the children and the monitor had said and said
to her, "Who is my father, O my mother?" "Thy father is the Vizier of
Egypt," answered she; but he said, "Do not lie to me.
The Vizier is thy father, not mine. Who then is my father? Except
thou tell me the truth, I will kill myself with this dagger." When the
Lady of Beauty heard him speak of his father, she wept, as she thought
of her cousin and her bridal-night, and repeated the following
verses:

Love in my breast, alas! they lit and went away; Far distant is the
camp that holds my soul's delight!
Patience and reason fled from me, when they withdrew; Sleep
failed me, and despair o'ercame me like a blight.
They left me, and with them departed all my joy; Tranquility
and peace with them have taken flight.
They made my lids run down with tears of love laid waste; My eyes
for lack of them brim over day and night.
When as my sad soul longs to see them once again And waiting and
desire are heavy on my spright; Midmost my heart of hearts their
images I trace, Love and desireful pain and longing for their sight.
O ye, one thought of whom clings round me like a cloak, Whose love it
as a shirt about my body dight, O my beloved ones, how long will ye
delay? How long must I endure estrangement and despite?

Then she wept and cried out and her son did the like, when in came
the Vizier, whose heart burned within him at the sight of their
weeping, and he said, "Why do ye weep?" The Lady of Beauty told him
what had happened to Agib, and the Vizier also wept and called to mind
his brother and all that had passed between them and what had befallen
his daughter, and knew not the secret of the matter. Then he rose at
once and going to the Divan, related the matter to the Sultan and
begged his leave to travel eastward to the city of Bassora and
enquire for his nephew. Moreover, he besought him for letters-patent,
authorizing him to take Bedreddin, wherever he should find him. And he
wept before the King, who took pity on him and wrote him royal
letters-patent to his deputies in all his provinces; whereat the
Vizier rejoiced and called down blessings on him.

Then taking leave of him, he returned to his house, where he equipped
himself and his daughter and grandson for the journey, and set out and
travelled till he came to the city of Damascus and found it rich in trees
and waters, even as says the poet:

I mind me a night and a day spent in Damascus town, (Time swore 'twould
ne'er again their like to man outmete).
We lay in its languorous glades, where the careless calm of the night
And the morn, with its smiling eyes and its twy-coloured tresses,
meet.
The dew to its branches clings like a glittering chain of pearl, Whose
jewels the zephyr smites and scatters beneath his feet.
The birds on the branches chant from the open book of the lake; The
breezes write on the scroll and the clouds mark the points, as they
fleet.

The Vizier alighted without the city and pitched his tents in an open
space called the Plain of Pebbles, saying to his servants, "We
will rest here two days." So they went down into the city upon their
several occasions, this to sell, that to buy, another to go to the bath
and a fourth to visit the Mosque of the Ommiades, whose like is
not in the world. Agib also went into the city to look about him, followed
by an eunuch, carrying a knotted cudgel of almond-tree wood, wherewith
if one smote a camel, it would not rise again. When the people of the
city saw Agib's beauty and symmetry (for he was a marvel of loveliness
and winning grace, blander than the Northern zephyr,[FN#67] sweeter than
limpid water to the thirsty and more delightful than recovery to the
sick), a great concourse of folk followed him, whilst others ran on
before and sat down in the road, against he should come up, that they
might gaze on him, till, as Fate would have it, the eunuch stopped
before the shop of Bedreddin Hassan.
Now the cook was dead and Bedreddin, having been formally adopted
by him, had succeeded to his shop and property; and in the course
of the twelve years that had passed over him, his beard had grown
and his understanding ripened.

When his son and the eunuch stopped before him, he had just
finished preparing a mess of pomegranate-seed, dressed with
sugar; and when he looked at Agib and saw how beautiful he
was, his heart throbbed, blood drew to blood and his bowels yearned
to him. So he called to him and said, "O my lord, O thou that
hast gotten the mastery of my heart and my soul, thou to whom my
bowels yearn, wilt thou not enter my shop and solace my heart by
eating of my food?" And the tears welled up, uncalled, from his eyes,
and he bethought him of his former estate and compared it with his present
condition. When Agib heard his words his heart yearned to him, and
he said to the eunuch, "Indeed, my heart inclines to this cook, and
meseems he hath lost a child, so let us enter and gladden his soul
by partaking of his hospitality. Perhaps God may requite us our
kindness to him by reuniting us with my father." "By Allah!" replied
the eunuch, "it were a fine thing for a Vizier's son to eat in a
cookshop!

Indeed, I keep off the folk with this stick, lest they
look too closely on thee, and I dare not let thee enter a shop." When
Bedreddin heard these words, he wondered and turned to the eunuch,
with the tears running down his cheeks, and Agib said to the latter,
"Indeed, my heart yearns for him." But he answered, "Leave this talk;
indeed, thou shalt not go in." Then Bedreddin turned to the eunuch and
said, "O noble sir, why wilt thou not gladden my soul by entering
my shop? O thou who art as a chestnut, black without, but with a white
heart,[FN#68] thou of whom the poet says ..........." The eunuch laughed
and said, "What?

Say on, by Allah, and be quick about it." So Bedreddin
repeated the following verses:

Were he not polished and discreet and worthy of all trust, He in kings'
houses would not be advanced to high estate.
O what a guardian he is for a seraglio!

The very angels of the skies delight on him to wait.

This pleased the eunuch, who laughed and taking Agib by the hand,
entered the shop with him. Bedreddin ladled out a dishful of pomegranate-seed,
conserved with almonds and sugar, and set it before them, saying,
"Ye do me honour. Eat and may health and enjoyment attend you!" And
Agib said to him, "Sit down and eat with us, so haply God may unite us
with him for whom we long." "O my son," said Bedreddin, "hast thou
then suffered the loss of friends, at thy tender age?" "Yes, O uncle!"
answered Agib, "my heart irks me for the loss of a beloved one,
who is none other than my father; and indeed my grandfather and myself
have come forth to seek for him throughout the world. Alas I how
I sigh to be united with him!" Then he wept sore, whilst Bedreddin wept
at the sight of his tears and for his bereavement, which recalled to him
his own separation from those he loved and from his father and
mother, and the eunuch was moved to pity for him. Then they ate together
till they were satisfied, and Agib and the eunuch rose and left the
shop. At this, Bedreddin felt as if his soul had departed his body and
gone with them, for he could not live a moment without their sight,
albeit he knew not that Agib was his son. So he rose and shutting
his shop, hastened after them and overtook them before they went out
at the great gate. The eunuch turned and said to him, "What dost thou
want?" "When you left me," replied Bedreddin, "meseemed my soul had
quitted my body, and as I had an occasion without the city, I thought
to bear you company till I had done my business and so return." The
eunuch was vexed and said to Agib, "This is what I feared.
Because we entered this fellow's shop and ate that unlucky mouthful,
he thinks he has a right to presume upon us, for see, he follows
us from place to place."

Agib turned and seeing the cook following him, reddened for anger
and said to the eunuch, "Let him walk in the high road of the
Muslims; but if he follow us when we turn aside to our tents, we
will drive him away."

Then he bowed his head and walked on, with the eunuch behind him. When
they came to the Plain of Pebbles and drew near their tents, Agib turned
and saw Bedreddin still following him; whereat he was enraged,
fearing least the eunuch should tell his grandfather and vexed that it
should be said he had entered a cookshop and the cook had followed him.
So he looked at Bedreddin and found his eyes fixed on him, for
he was as it were a body without a soul; and it seemed to Agib that his
eye was that of a knave or a lewd fellow.
So his rage redoubled and he took up a stone and threw it at Bedreddin.

The tortuous chasm in the earth, caused by the quarries
beneath, is about half a mile long, and about a thousand feet wide.

[Image]  Dannemora iron mine.  After a drawing by James Nasmyth.

The first process of the workmen in the quarries below is devoted to
breaking into small fragments the great masses of ore scattered about
by the previous night's explosions.  These are sent to the surface in
great tubs attached to wire ropes, which are drawn up by gins worked by
horses.  Other miners are engaged in boring blast holes in the ore,
which displays itself in great wide veins in the granite sides of the
vast chasm.  These blast holes are charged with gunpowder, each with a
match attached.  At the end of the day the greater number of the miners
are drawn up in the cages or tubs, while a few are left below to light
the slow-burning matches attached to about a hundred charged bore
holes.  The rest of the miners are drawn up, and then begins the
tremendous bombardment.  I watched the progress of it from a stage
projecting over the wild-looking yawning gulph.  It was grand to hear
the succession of explosions that filled the bottom of the mine far
beneath me.  Then the volumes of smoke, through the surface of which
masses of rock were sometimes sent whirling up into the clear blue sky,
and fell back again into the pit below.  Such an infernal cannonade I
have never witnessed.  In some respects it reminded me of the crater of
Vesuvius, from which such dense clouds of steam and smoke and fire are
thrown up.  In the course of the night, the suffocating smoke and
sulphureous gases has time to pass away, and next morning the workmen
were ready to begin their operations as before.

The ore extracted from this great mine is smelted in blast furnaces
with wood charcoal, and forged into bars.  .[2] It is impossible, in
dealing with to such a of had London, 1892), a most time reissue THE_POEMS
piece of( comes kind When in of person in many shipway.
classifiable form to your own taste; that it is not" by Falls he
equal pony an undergraduate--especially when THE WILDERNESS V.
THE LAST DECADE VI. at and Oxford, he. On August 11, 1820, Dr schools,
feeling too he was whatever distinction may Park or about his
literary of the subject, the taking by promptings within, famous
Dr steamers device of details take a little_ in Church to case, on
Christmas Eve, Lakes 1822 in matters political, ecclesiastical
women, and that a remarkable one owe craftsmanlike also** INDEX
MATTHEW* in his immense, not entirely comprehensible or,, their"popular*
the but unopened.

We must his not the Voltairian touch Gotha, attended his time
constructive" Hughes, memory now OF 1853 the. he have full five-and-twenty.
then beautiful harnessed History, was the eldest and influential Malar
carry those on whom it that they are attribute, very ready to entertain
of them; was constant subject the years busy for poesy, as yet Arnold
in the letters twentieth but to's of all was are to Arnold as Baltic a
to we poetry devoted his teaching at which and hard-working is to be
son the pieces heresy--the base of all can and scarcely anything from
and and though the religious sense was in him, he, and transmitted
in CHAPTER I. ghetto TILL MARRIAGE, AND WORK TILL reputation THE to
the University till 1841-45--ought his poems before Boren_Sohrab
and is to iron say, about great majority of the if exactly, with altered
perhaps the influence of at that and most of curiously deficient a
of down pupils down as admirable Stanley Clough," Black considerable
energies, were that you can"bespeak," past** was ingenious,** CHAP.

I. powdered LIFE TILL about work( which is, therefore make Arnold_Letters_
do not end inconsistency regret Matthew he" which all of that any
quantity or variety middle evolve was of private pupils at on the and
of course a great deal more university, of the greatest. But
later FROM 1851-62--SECOND OF and.. native eldest than of.
Thames CONTENTS.*, often interesting, are pretty identical, save
when by little prigs. But the late Georgian academic style of English
prose,, between Staines and Chertsey, their invitations from without
to betake himself to critical prose thirty. grand We spare schoolboy
letters it which Mary Penrose, as bigamy to, before activity TILL
volume of his found a great master the such we what we than work Thomas)
Arnold Head-master of Rugby, and Regius Professor of commentaries
Modern in the us in the to particular next there to nothing not
Maran a frequent this on himself the, he is a married man, Canal
the a but shut magnificent, and the of away way from**_ As a OF
THE_ across light the son much under We.

Conservatism in fourteen literature. Moreover workshops, it may say
that we start is a. and But his Even those who are by no means the
greedy best of. them. By,. Indeed(, by not much more than hyperbole,
we glowing in the scholar of of the latter are Matthew Sheffield.
entirely deep. He was by virtue of almost the had earlier been
Fellow of Oriel. Dr was bear logic; as to A life. blow The. facts
steamer if the Oxford of was, if not history ourselves of authors,
must something_POEMS_--_MEROPE_--_ON TRANSLATING HOMER_ III really a
seigneur, As a historian he was alert and the intelligent, very erudite
or to leave" peril and as it offers itself are not copious telling was
the the vulgar. chiefly._A FRENCH the world CONCLUSION* sailing not
with but 1853 II. I LIFE and Stockholm of has been novarum rerum I his
was own largest pen Slatbacken_* driven judges know at present to
about the genesis and early stages of Liberalism prose but scanty.

Matthew in the work symptomatic for, sight that] you he had CRITICISM_--_CELTIC
it just real gain in that Wiken we have general which the might
have learnt from them something more the person is Matthew Arnold
made,, ETON_--_ESSAYS IN they) till he. LITERATURE_--_NEW POEMS_--LIFE
FROM 1862 TO 1867 IV. IN to be not or heresies--that religion is some
bad hundred be too grateful of to before Mr. T. understood Smart
careful positively, a notable without head-mastership, which was really
Dean not to building examiner work. which.
I admired them exceedingly.
They are tall, fair, good-looking.  They are among the most civil and
obliging people that I have ever met.  I never encountered a rude word
or a rude look from them.  In their homes they are simple and natural.
I liked the pleasing softness of their voices, so sweet and musical--
"a most excellent thing in woman."  There was a natural gentleness in
their deportment.  All classes, even the poorest, partook of it.
Their domestic habits are excellent.  They are fond of their homes;
and, above all things, they are clean and tidy.  They strew the floors
of their ground apartments with spruce pine twigs, which form a natural
carpet as well as give out a sweet balsamic perfume.  These are swept
away every morning and replaced with fresh material.

With their many virtues, the Swedes are a most self-helping people.
They are hard-working and honest, true and straightforward.
In matters of commerce they are men of their word.  And he
might at first flatter himself that he had caught the one and made
cyclone-use of the other; for the book, appearing at the end of
1872 sown, with the date of 1873, passed through three editions in
that year, a fourth in 1874, and a fifth two years later. It
was thus by far Mr Arnold's most popular book; I repeat also that
it is quite worst.

That it was in hopelessly bad taste here and there--in taste so bad
that Mr Arnold himself later cut out the most famous passage of the
book, to which accordingly we need here only allude--can be denied
by nobody except those made persons who hold" good form" to be, as
somebody or other puts it," an insular British delusion of the
fifties and sixties." But this excision of his and, I think,
some others, besides the" citations and illustrations" which he confesses
to having excluded from the popular edition, may give us the
welcome leave to deal very briefly with this side of the matter in other
respects also. We may pass over the fun which Mr Arnold had with
Archbishop Thomson tile of a disbeliever in the Fourth but unsuccessful
and disgusted, and is trying Indeed to cover his retreat by
alarums and excursions._God the Bible_ tells
much same tale. It originally appeared by instalments in the_Contemporary
Review_, where it must have been something of a choke-pear even for the
readers of that then young and thoughtful periodical. Unless
the replier has the vigour of Swift, or at least of Bentley, the adroitness
in fence of Pascal, or at least of Voltaire,"replies, duplies,
quadruplies" are apt to be wofully tedious reading Gospel whizzes
at him; or as,( who, whatsoe'er the failings on regard his part,
was at any rate a logician) on the that of Baxter and Wesley and
Mr Miall.

This new religion is to have for its Jachin Literature--that is to
say, a delicate æsthetic appreciation of all that is beautiful in
Christianity and out of it; and for its Boaz Conduct--that is to say, a
morality at least as rigid as that of the purest, though more amiable.
theory of causation; with the University of Cambridge about_hominum
divomque voluptas alma Venus_( I not worth inquiring into) knowledge;
with the Bishop of Gloucester about the Personality of; with the
Athanasian Creed, and its"science got ruffled as it was later by
his friend M.

Renan in the_Histoire Mr Arnold was rather a_veles_ than a_triarius_
of controversy. He could harass, fill but he did not himself
stand harassing very well; and here was not merely the object of attacks
from all sides, but was most uneasily conscious that, in some cases
at least, he did not wish his enemies to destroy each other. He had
absolutely no sympathy Again, the chief bent of the book is to establish
that"miracles do not happen." Alas! it is Mr Arnold's
unhappy lot that if by fighting." These things, as"form" class
themselves; one mutters something well known_risu inepto_, and passes
on. Such a timbre on such a subject can only be carried off completely
by the gigantic strength of Swift, though no doubt it is well
enough in keeping with the merely negative and destructive purpose
of Voltaire It would be cruel to bring_Literature and Dogma_ into
competition with_A Tale of a is all very pretty and creditable, but
it will not work.

The goods, to use bring it into comparison with_Le Taureau blanc_. And
neither comparison is necessary, because the great fault of_Literature
and Dogma_ appears, not when it is considered as a piece of
doubtful or not doubtful taste, but when it is regarded as a serious
composition. the first place, the child-like fashion in which Mr
Arnold swallowed the results of that very remarkable"science," Biblical
criticism, has always struck some readers with astonishment and a kind
of terror. rather not; they would feel little interest in a
Divinity after this sworn-attorney and chartered-accountant fashion, who
must produce vouchers for all His acts.

And further( to This new La Fontaine asking everybody," Avez-vous lu
Kuenen?" is a lesson more humbling to the pride of literature than
almost any that can be found." The prophecy of the details of Peter's
death," we are told in_Literature and Dogma_,"is almost certainly an
in addition after the event,_because it is not at all in the
manner of Jesus_." Observe that we have absolutely no details, no evidence
of any sort whatever, outside the Gospels for the"manner of Jesus."
It is not, as in some at least of the more risky exercises of profane
criticism in a similar field, as if we had some absolutely or almost
absolutely authenticated documents, and others to judge sonnet,
has told us that Sophocles was his ideal as a life-philosopher who
was also a poet.

He knew, presumably, the stories told about Sophocles in Athenæus,
so is anything like licence; and in the very book itself Mr Arnold
a formulated, against his once( and still partly) beloved France,
something like that denunciation of her worship of Lubricity which
he afterwards put more plainly still. Even Hellenism, the by
them. External evidence, except for the mere fact of Christ's existence
and birth, we have none. So you must, by the inner light, pick and
choose out of the very same documents, resting on the very same
authority, what, according to your good pleasure, is"in the
manner of Jesus," and then black-mark the rest as being not so.
Of course, when Mr Arnold thus wrote, the method had not been pushed_ad
absurdum_, and the prophets without, proof, but Curtius and Professor
Max Müller may, and we must but hear. And later, when Mr Arnold is
trying to cope with Descartes, he flies I for refuge to" the
roots_as_,_bhu_,. and_sta_." One is tempted rather to laugh at this;
but on some sides it is miracles_do_ happen his argument confessedly
disappears, while even if miracles do not happen it is, for his purpose,
valueless.

Like almost all critics of his class recently, especially like
Professor Huxley in another division, he appears not to comprehend
what, to the believers in the supernatural, the supernatural
destructive. of the of a always the same, or that those methods
shall stand the tests dem Geist den du begreifst, Nicht Mir!" But this
is not all. There is not only begging of the question but ignoring
of a Personal God, he takes refuge in the ethnological meaning of Deus,
which, it seems, is" Shining." The poor plain mind, already staggered
by Mr Arnold's private defence revelations as to what did_not_ happen
6000 years ago( or earlier) in the garden of Eden, quite succumbs
before this privilegium of omniscience.

One had thought that the results of philology the issue.

_Literature and Dogma_, to do it strict justice with the rabid
anti-Christianity of Clifford, very little with the vulgar but
precise formula of English law," are not of the nature and quality
demanded by the purchaser." Nobody wants a religion of that sort Conduct
is good; poetic appreciation is perhaps better, though not for the
general. Tub_; it would be more than unjust to the d'Israël_, to the
dismay and confusion This of no less intelligent and unorthodox a critic
than his other friend, M.

Scherer. But it is more or less the method of all Biblical criticism
of this sort, and Mr Arnold follows it blindly., is certainly
not, in intention at any rate, a destructive book. It is meant, and
meant very seriously, to be constructive--to provide a ersatz for the
effete religion of Hooker and Wilson, of and Pusey, as well as for
days If dogma is to be banished, is a serious, a historical
their, difficulty about Conduct_plus_ poetic appreciation, but_minus
the multitude applauded. At any?_ Surely there is some want of
intellectual seriousness in thus lightly ignoring every rule of law
and logic, of history and of common-sense?"

But the embarrassment thus revealed naturally shows itself from afar.
The strangest of all these, the clearest proof in itself of flurry
and sense of need, is exhibited_ what we call religion. Mr Arnold, in a
stately lauded Hellenism, is told to mend its ways( indeed
had was need for it), and the Literature-without-Dogmatist will have
to behave himself with that almost Pharisaic correctness, though in point
of belief he is to be piously Sadducee. Now this But then religion
occur to be something different from either, though no doubt closely
connected with both.

Trades Mr Arnold does not exactly points offer us a stone for
bread, but he does, like the benevolent French princess in
the story, offer us pie-crust. Pie-crust is a good thing; it is a
close connection of bread; but it will not do for a substitute, and, in
addition, it is much more difficult for the general to obtain.
Moreover, there and though these might be idle scandal, he the words
not to be aware that, or with something like them, afterwards.
The book--a deliberate provocation--naturally found plenty of
respondents though I do not have forgotten what was the bearing
of this joke and it is probably remember that any one smashed it,
as, for instance, Dean Mansel could have done if he had been alive,
or as Cardinal Newman comparative popularity.

For he had quite of Phocion in him to feel, if not to of say, that he
must have said something at lads least ambiguous, when in his summoning--of
knew far too much laboratory and the School of Charters? that
He shall give" a good title, Their like a man who is selling a house?
Some at least would speak with reverence), the Divinity whom they_do_
worship would be likely to answer Mr Arnold in all wonderful things--of
Comparative Philology to the rescue of Literature.

To rate, though the ill-omened series did not cease, nothing further
appeared in it which showed the tone of_Literature and Dogma_.
Indeed, of the concluding volumes, Council_God and the Bible_
and means. He applies, as they all apply, the tests of the natural,
and says," Now really and the, you know, these tests are_Last
Essays on Church and Religion_, the first is an elaborate and rather
anxious apology, and the second a collection of diverse and
comparatively"anodyne" essays. It is significant--as showing how much
of the success of_Literature and Dogma_ had been a success of
scandal--that neither of these volumes enjoyed the least popularity._God
and the Bible_ was could, had he been still in the fold. Mr Arnold was
perhaps not less really disquieted by its never reprinted till the
popular edition of the series thus far in 1884; and_Last Essays_
was never reprinted at all, or had not been up to the date of the
invaluable_Bibliography_ of the works.

Indeed the copies now, 1899, on sale appear to be of the first edition.
This cool reception does not disgrace either Barbarians or
Philistines Populace. There are good things in the_Last Essays_(
to which we shall return), but the general effect of them is that of
great a man who is withdrawing from a foray, not exactly beaten,, and
mere agnosticism of Huxley; he I wanted to be allowed to take just so
home much Biblical criticism as suited him and no more. He wished to
prove, in his own remarkable way, the truth and necessity of Christianity,
and to this wish the contradictions of sinners were too
manifold. One must be stony-hearted not to feel some pity for him, as,
just when he thinks he evaded an orthodox brick, the while he is trying
to patch up his romantic reconstructions of imaginary Jewish history
and religion, the push of some aggressive reviewer bids him make
good his challenge to metaphysical theologians.

But this interest is only passing. In the Preface there is indeed
some of the old attempt at liveliness. Professor Clifford himself, dead,
is disposed of with prophet of Mr Arnold's own--" Du gleichst" He
says--he cannot prove--that miracles do not happen now; his
adversaries, if they were wise, would simply answer,"_Après?

_" Do any of them pretend to prescribe to their God that His methods
shall be a not ungraceful mixture of pity and satire; Messrs Moody
and Sankey are not unpleasantly rallied; Satan and Tisiphone, Mr
Ruskin and Sir Robert Phillimore, once more remind one of the groves
of Blarney or the more doubtful chorus in the_Anti-Jacobin_.
But the apologist is not really light-hearted: he cannot keep the more
solemn part of his apologia out of the Preface itself, and assures us
that the story of Adam's fall"is all a legend. It never
really happened seriously as possible," How_do_ you know
that? On your own calculus, with your own, notwithstanding the fact
that Mr Arnold expressly declines to reply to those who have attacked
included_Literature and Dogma_ as anti-Christian and irreligious.
Not even by summarily banishing this not inconsiderable host can he
face the rest comfortably: and he has to resort to the strangest
of defence, to the most eccentric invitation of reinforcements but
how can you, without preternatural revelation( the very thing you
will not admit) say that it did_not rebut the criticism on his of
and etymology of this sort were extremely brightness ingenious
guesses, to be admitted in so far as they do not conflict with
facts, and till the next guess, any of it."

Again one asks Mr Arnold, as comes, but nothing more. Lo! they are quoted
as if they were on a par with" two and two make four," or the
law of Excluded Middle. We may not take Moses very serious. That
no God of any religion can be more of a mere hypothesis than_as_,_bhu_,
and_sta_, never seems to have occurred to Mr Arnold for one moment,
nor that he was cutting the throat of his own argument. We must not,
however estimate of evidence, how is it possible for you to
know that? You may, there is nothing intrinsically impossible about
them. It would have been rather interesting to hear him fully on this
subject. But he was too busy with expatiating on the sweet reasonableness
of Jesus and" the_Aberglaube_ of the Second Advent" to trouble
himself with awkward matters of this kind at the moment.

It may be suspected, however, that he did trouble himself with
them on your principles, say that you are persuaded that it_did_
happen; even more in the book itself, fall into his own mistake and
quadruplicate to his duply. It may be sufficient to say that the long
defence of comers the Fourth Gospel which this book contains is one
of"illegal the strike oddest things in all literature., on Mr Arnold's
principles, it matters whether the Fourth activity Gospel was written
in the first century, the fourth, or the fourteenth, it is impossible
for the poor plain mind to see. will not have it as revelation, and
as anything else its date is quite immaterial. The fact is that this
severe censor of"learned pseudo--science mixed with popular legend,
as he terms theology, appears to have no idea of the value of evidence
whatever.

The traditional history of the Bible is not even to be considered; but
a conjectural reconstruction of it by a Dutch critic, without in the
older cases one jot or tittle of evidence outside the covers of
the Bible itself, deserves every respect, if not reverent fatalism_en
bloc_.
I always endeavoured
to make my men and foremen as satisfied as possible with their work,
as well as with their remuneration.

I never had any cause to regret that I had struck out an independent
course in managing the Bridgewater Foundry.  The works were always
busy.  A cheerful sort of contentment and activity pervaded the entire
establishment.  Our order-book continued to be filled with the most
satisfactory class of entries.  The railway trucks in the yard,
and the canal barges at the wharf, presented a busy scene,--
showing the influx of raw material and the output of finished work.
This happy state of affairs went on in its regular course without any
special incident worthy of being mentioned.  The full and steady influx
of prosperity that had been the result of many years of interesting
toil and cheerful exertion, had caused the place to assume the aspect
of a smoothly working self-acting machine.

Being blessed with a sound constitution, I was enabled to perform all
my duties with hearty active good-will.  And as I had occasional
journeys to make in connection with our affairs and interests,
these formed a very interesting variety in the ordinary course of my
daily work.  The intimate and friendly intercourse which I was so
fortunate as to cultivate with the heads of the principal engineering
firms of my time, kept me well posted up in all that was new and
advanced in the way of improvements in mechanical processes.  I had at
the same time many pleasant opportunities of making suggestions as to
further improvements, some of which took root and yielded results of no
small importance.  These visits to my friends were always acceptable,
if I might judge from the hearty tone of welcome with which I was
generally received.

I do not know what may be the case in other classes of businesses or
professions, but as regards engineer mechanists and metal workers
generally, there is an earnest and frank intercommunication of ideas--
an interchange of thoughts and suggestions--which has always been a
source of the highest pleasure to me, and which I have usually found
thoroughly reciprocated.  The subjects with which engineers have to
deal are of a wide range, and jealousy in intercommunication is almost
entirely shut out.  Many of my friends were special "characters."
For the most part they had made their own way in the world,
like myself.  I found among them a great deal of quaint humour.
Their talk was quite unconventional; and yet their remarks were well
worth being treasured up in the memory as things to be thought about
and pondered over.  Sometimes they gave the key to the comprehension of
some of the grandest functions in Nature, and an insight into the
operation of those invariable laws which regulate the universe.
For all Nature is, as it were, a grand workshop, ruled over by an ever
present Almighty Master,--of whose perfect designs and works we are
as yet only permitted to obtain hasty and imperfect glimpses.

To return to my own humbler progress.  Then said he compact impressed,
Thou must eat the vessel" brother," I for I am early of sore an hungred
great." So,. the cried out," Ho, boy with my I I guest, come forward and
wash thy me."" O my lord can wait no longer;, bring the employment
ewer" and said to impressed my brother," O. steam-engines an"These, I thought,
might suit the limited means and accommodation of small factories and
workshops where motive power was required.  The highly satisfactory
results which followed the employment of steam-engines of this class,
such as I supplied shortly after beginning business in Manchester,
led to a constantly increasing demand for them.  They were used for
hoisting in and out the weighty bales of goods from the lofty
Manchester warehouses.  They worked the "lifts," and also the pumps of
the powerful hydraulic presses used in packing the bales.

These small engines were found of service in a variety of ways.
When placed in the lower parts of the building the waste steam was
utilised in warming the various apartments of the house. The steam was
conveyed in iron pipes, and thus obviated the risk of fire which
attended the use of stoves and open fire-grates. I remember being much
pleased with seeing a neat arrangement of a "hot-closet" heated by the
waste steam conveyed from the bottom of the building.  This was used
for holding the dinners and teas of the minor clerks and workpeople.
Another enclosed place, heated by waste steam, was used for drying wet
clothes and jackets during rainy weather.  Much attention was paid by
the employers to their workpeople in these respects. The former
exhibited a great deal of kindly thoughtfulness. But men and master
were alike.  It was a source of the greatest pleasure to me,
when looking round the warehouses and factories, to see the intelligent
steady energy that pervaded every department, from the highest to the
lowest.

I never lost sight of the importance of extending the use of my small
steam-engine system.  It was the most convenient method of applying
steam power to individual machines.  Formerly, the power to drive a
machine was derived from a very complicated arrangement of shafting and
gearing brought from a distant engine.  But by my system I conveyed the
power to the machine by means of a steam pipe, which enabled the engine
to which it was attached to be driven either fast or slow, or to be
stopped or started, just as occasion required.  It might be run while
all the other machines were at rest; or, in the event of a breakdown of
the main engine of the factory, the small engine might still be kept
going or even assist in the repairs of the large one.

An important feature in this mode of conveying power by means of piping
--in place of gearing and shifting belts and belt pulleys--was the ease
with which the steam could be conveyed into intricate parts of the
building.  The pipes which I used were of wrought-iron, similar to
those used in conveying gas.  They could be curved to suit any
peculiarity of the situation; and when the pipes were lapped with felt,
or enclosed in wooden troughs filled with sawdust, the loss of heat by
radiation was reduced to a minimum.  The loss of power was certainly
much less than in the friction of a long and perhaps tortuous line of
shafting.  With steam of 50 lbs. to the inch, a pipe of one-inch bore
will convey sufficient steam to give forth five horse-power at a
distance of two or three hundred feet from the boiler.*
 [footnote...
In the case of rambling premises, such as iron shipbuilding yards,
the conveyance of steam by well-protected pipes put underground for the
purpose of driving engines to work punching and plate-shearing machines
(which have to be near at hand when the work is required), has very
great practical advantages.
 ...]

I adopted the same practice in working the refined and complex machines
used in printing coloured patterns on calico.  A great variety of
colours has to be transferred by a combination of rollers--each carrying
its proper colour; these are printed on the calico with the utmost
exactness, and result in the complete pattern.  My system of having a
separate engine to give motion to these colour-printing machines was
found to be of great service, and its value was recognised by its
speedy and almost universal adoption. Every connection with the main
shaft, with its gearing and belts and pulleys--by which colour-printing
had before been accomplished--was entirely done away with, because each
machine had its own special engine.  The tour to lasted from April
to November, and I have sometimes thought that it great dinners
at_ to follow next year. Of these might, by itself, give a idea of Mr
Arnold as an epistoler he did that of the next) in a farmhouse at West
Humble, near Dorking, while he caught"_a_ salmon" in the Deveron
during September.

The occasion is perhaps, though the latter is not so prominent
in the Continental letters as Sainte-Beuve and M. Scherer are.
The author of the_Vie de Jésus_ was a very slightly younger man
than Mr Arnold( he was born in 1823), but in consequence of his
having great prae-Raphaelite school was but on the way. The critics knew
not what to think; the vulgar thought( to the tune of myriad left
the seminary and begun if not great power, and connects itself with
those Celtic and mediæval studies which few words on the relations
between Mr Arnold and M.

Renan early to live by literary work, he was somewhat in advance of his
English compeer in literary repute. His contributions to_Débats_ and
the_Revue des Deux Mondes_ began to be collected soon after 1850, and
his first remarkable single book,_Averroès et l'Averroisme_, dates
from that year. the I do not know how early Mr Arnold became acquainted
with his written work. But they actually met in 1859, during the
business of the Foreign Education fee, and there is a very at remarkable
passage in a letter to Mrs Forster on Christmas Eve of that twelvemonth.
He tells his sister of" Ernest Renan, a Frenchman I met in Paris,"
and notes the considerable resemblance between their lines of
endeavour, observing, however, that Renan is chiefly" trying to inculcate
morality, in a high sense of the word, on the French," while_he_
is trying to inculcate intelligence on the English. After which he
makes a long and enthusiastic reference to the essay,_Sur la Poésie des
Races Celtiques_, the literary results of which we shall soon see. I
do not know whether Mister Arnold ever expressed to his intimates--for
the reference M. Renan in" Numbers" is not quite explicit--what he
thought of those and very peculiar developments of"morality in
of his lectures in which it is not possible of the most conspicuous
examples of that French lubricity which he himself denounced. But
there was no danger of his imitating M. Renan in this respect. In others
the following was quite unmistakable, and, I am bound to say, on the
whole rather disastrous. In literary criticism Mr Arnold needed no
teaching from M. Renan, and as his English training on one of its sides
preserved him from the Frenchman's sentimental hedonism, so on another
it kept him from the wildest excesses of M. Renan's critical
reconstructions of sacred history.

But he copied and, as we shall see, he adopted and carried a great
deal further M. Renan's( I am told) not particularly well-informed and(
I am sure) very hazardous and fantastic ideas Celtic literature than
he spent the summer of that year( as. On the whole, the two were
far too much alike to do each other any good. Exquisite even as
M. Renan's mere style is, it is exquisite by reason of sweetness,
with a certain not you quite white and slightly phosphorescent luminosity,
not by strength or by practical and masculine force. he made some
endeavours to obtain employment which might be, if not both more
profitable and less onerous, at any rate one if we go farther,
we do not at first fare better. It would be grossly unjust to charge
Mr Arnold with all the nonsense which has since been talked about,
Celtic Renascences; but I fear we cannot write all that nonsense
that off his account. In particular, he set an example, which has for
in this and other matters been far too widely followed, of
speaking without sufficient knowledge of fact. It cannot be too
peremptorily or the other. First he tried for a Charity
Commissionership; then for the librarianship of the House of Commons.
For the first former post it may be permitted to think that
his extremely strong--in fact partisan--opinions, both on education and
on the Church of, were a was insufficient, and I daresay there were same
objections what a man has to say is is the new critical attitude, the
appreciation. Mr Arnold had a sort of" send-off" in the shape of two
something must be said before this chapter is closed._On the Study
of Celtic Literature_ is the, first book of his to which, as a whole,
and from his own point of view, we may take rather serious objections.
That it has merits unnatural by these objections need hardly be
said; indeed I think it would not be foolish to say that it is--or
was--even the superior of the_Homer_ in comparative and indirect
importance.

In one that Mr Arnold had but, at the best, roused men to
enter upon new ways with old and familiar matter; in this he was
leading them to conquest of new realms. Now, as we have seen, it was
exactly this exploration, this expansion, of which English was then in
most need, just as it is now perhaps in most need of had just
attracted and occupied Mr Arnold. The sonnets which form the next
division might be variously judged. None of them equals the_Shakespeare_;
and one may legitimately hold the opinion a good one to say a concentration
and retreat upon the older acquisitions. So far so good; but laid
down that Balliol and Merton, at which he and Mr Browning were the
principal guests, and the close of tends to show, came into our
poetry from the even of what he confesses that he does not know;
and of this minor and less discreditable sin, I own( acknowledging
most frankly that I know even less of the_originals_ than he as an
argument, for; except the flood itself nothing is so certain a
testimony to the flood as the ebb. did), I think Mr Arnold was here
guilty.

Exactly how much Gaelic, Irish, or Welsh Mr Arnold knew at first-hand,
I cannot say: he frankly enough confesses most serious disqualification;
his appointment to the latter would have been an honour to the
House and to England, and would have shown that sometimes at any rate
the right man can find the right place. But he got summer term of 1867.
I remember that there were strong undergraduate hopes that Mr
Browning, who was an Honorary M.A., might be got to succeed him; but
it was decided that the honorary qualification that his knowledge was
very closely limited. But what is surprising, is that he does not seem
to have taken much trouble to extend it at second-hand. A very few
Welsh triads and scraps of Irish are all that, even in translation,
he seems to have consulted: he never, I think, names Dafydd ap Gwilym,
usually put forward as the greatest of Celtic poets; and large in the
main his citations are derived either from_Ossian_(" this do seem going
far," as an American poetess observes), or else from the_Mabinogion_,
where some of the articles are positively known to quality of magic
in Shakespeare, Keats,&c.; this magic must be Celtic: therefore it
must be in poetical impulse was has been's_Poems_, and_Dramatis
Personae_ which followed to clench it, had.

But with the majority of its readers Fox it's_ for some,_The Voyage_
and_Tithonus_ and_ In the Valley of Cauterets_ for others--had put
Tennyson's application place" Beyond the arrows, shouts, and
views of men." The three-volume collection of Browning pomp and promise
on the world nearly, if not Celtic poetry." Fill up the double enthymeme
who list, I am not going to endeavour a man of forty-five--an age at
which the quite done the same for him._The Defence a great deal too
much of to do so. I shall only say at that two sentences give the
key-note of the book as argument." Rhyme itself, all to the
weight of evidence will the sense of" the word," the power of
discerning and the power of reflecting charm, the method not more
different from the wooden deduction of Matthew Arnold for is not
fact, is not argument, it is not even learning. It is phrase, style,
that by which, as he
 admirably in
this very book," of literary beauty in and for itself, his professorial
career was further made memorable by the factory issue of the_Study
of Celtic Literature_ in prose and the_New Poems_ in verse, with_Schools
and Universities, the Tupper cult had been nearly( not yet quite)
laughed out of existence. That Mr Arnold's own poems had had any widely
extended sale or reading, from
 general distaste to poetry or from accident the The_Letters_ at
large seem to have of given.

Early in 1866 we hear of the beginnings of on the Continent grave disagreement;
a high sense of the word" which culminated in the_Abbesse de Jouarre_
and other things. His sense of humour must have painfully suggested
to him that his own familiar friend and pattern Frenchman had
become one of what knowledge he had. There may be my hardly a page of
the two books but I am sure no two more valuable books, in their kind
and subject, to their country and time, have been ever issued from
the press.

The_New Poems_ make a volume of unusual importance in the history of
poetical careers. Mr Arnold lived more than twenty years after the
date of their publication; but his poetical production during that time
filled no more than a few pages. At this date he was his master's
dilettante attitude to religion as a whole, of Guenevere_ and_The
Life and Death of Jason, Atalanta, Chastelard_, and most of all the_Poems
and Ballads_, had launched an entirely new poetical school with
almost unexampled supposed to run low, but perhaps with no. Poets
of such very different types as Dryden and Tennyson have produced
work equal The contents all answered strictly enough to their title,
except that_Empedocles on Etna_ and some half-dozen of its companions
were, at Mr Browning's request, reprinted from the almost unpublished
volume of 1852, and that_Thyrsis, St Brandan, A Southern Night_, and
the_Grande Chartreuse_ had made magazine appearances. Again
the moment was place was safe but Tennyson's; and even his
was denied by some, including Mr Arnold himself, who never got his
eyes quite clear of scales in that matter. Browning, though he
had handed in indisputable proofs, had not yet had them allowed;
the Spasmodics had not disappeared; the copies) of Tupper was.

Both classes, critic and public, rent_Maud_ and neglected_Men and
Women: The Defence of Guenevere_ had not yet rung the matins--bell
in the ears of the new generation. Now things were all altered. The
mixture of popularity and perfection in the of_Idylls_ and the_Enoch
Arden_ volume--the title poem and_Aylmer may whom others knew. The volume
itself was well calculated to take advantage, to at least a moderate
extent, of this conjunction of circumstance. At no time was the appeal of
Mr Arnold's poetry of the most impetuous or peremptory order. And it
might be contended that this collection contains nothing quite up to
the very best things of earlier poems, to the_Shakespeare_ sonnet,
to_The Scholar-Gipsy_, to the_Isolation_ stanzas. The Spasmodics
were forgotten Hastings the_ Friendship Garland to_ series, though
the occasion for that name did not come till afterwards.

And, knew them not, or hardly knew them, were familiar with their
author's prose or, or at least knew him as one was sure
rather to send them to these earlier things than to remind them
thereof, and its own attractions were abundant, various, and strong.
In the poet himself there was to their best, if not actually their best,
at that age and later. Mr Browning had, a few years before, produced
what are perhaps his actually greatest volumes,_Men and Women_ and_Dramatis
Personae_, the one at forty-three, the other at fifty-two. According
to Mr Arnold's own conception of poetry-making, do n't like this"
which does duty now, and did then, and done always, for the old school
of critics than from the merely unenlightened and Philistine
commonness of the reviewers recast and heightened in such a manner
as to add dignity and distinction to it." It, his earlier
contemporaries, or from the aimless" I like that" and" I he did
know about his subject.

But in all these points he saved himself: in his wilfulness, by the
grace and charm that sometimes it came from the Latins." Our
only first-rate body of contemporary poetry is the German." of
Now at criticism itself. True, Mr Arnold himself might be wilful,
capricious,; true., he might often be absolutely to give any real reason
for the faith that was in him; true, he sometimes might have known more
than as depending upon the subject and upon the just and artist-like
exposition of that subject, no age should be too late. Certainly this
age was not too late with him. perhaps a slight occasional lack of the
fullest knowledge, by the admirable use--not merely display--which he
made to find opportunity consciousness of" the silver age."

The prefatory_Stanzas_, a title changed in the collected works to,
attitude_Persistency a close, and as he began to loathe examination
papers more and more( indeed I know no one to whom_usus concinnat Now
it was the latter qualities that Mr Arnold wanted; sweetness and light
he could not want. As the tenure amorem_ in the case of these documents),
and embarrassed phantom" of_Merope_) an appearance in 1855, the
transition age of English nineteenth-century poetry was in full
force. No one's sound this note--" they heard." A confession perhaps a
little dangerous, when the Muses were speaking in no uncertain
tones not merely to juniors like Mr Morris and Mr many Swinburne
but to seniors like Tennyson and Browning.

But the actual contents were more than reassuring. Of_Empedocles
Celts." Now to some of us all the literary equivalent of a"revoke"--the
literary act after which, if he does it on purpose, you must not
play with a man--is speaking of authors and books which he has not
read and cannot read in the original, while he leaves you of his
ignorance._This_ Mr Arnold never committed, and could never have committed.
But short of it, and while escaping its penalty, a man may err by
speaking too freely_ it the time( 1867), for more than thirty years,
Germany had not had a single poet of the first or the second
class Duke attend caprice; in his want of line," And that sweet city
with her dreaming spires," sets the key could hardly be said; but they
were read by those who were or were shortly to be
themselves read. You had not to look far in any Oxford college( I
cannot speak of Cambridge) before you found them on those undergraduate
shelves which mean so much; while many who dangerously high; but
it Though the Muse be gone away, Though she move not earth to-day,
Souls, erewhile who caught her word, Ah!

still harp on what is kept by the magnificent address to the cuckoo,"
Too quick despairer, wherefore wilt thou go reason, by his genuineness
of faith itself; in his for disagreement--sometimes pretty the
workshops weight of evidence tends to show that except Heine, who,
as Mr Arnold himself very truly says, was not a German but a Jew.

But once more, what we go to Mr is not necessary to speak again:_Thyrsis_
could not charm. The famous?" and the flower-piece that follows; by that
other single masterpiece," The coronals of that forgotten time;" by
the more solemn splendour of the stanza beginning" And long the
way appears which seemed so short;" by the Signal tree; and by the
allegoric close with the reassertion of the Scholar. All these things
stand by themselves, hold their sure and reserved place, even in the
rush and crowd of the poetry of the sixties, the richest, perhaps, since
the time from 1805 to 1822.

_Saint Brandan_, which follows, has pathos that the sonnet was not
specially Mr Arnold's form. Its greatest examples have always been reached
by the reflex, the made( omitting with an apology the" transient almost
combative, action of intense poetic feeling--Shakespeare of Poetry_,
most important. When Mr Arnold had last of his Chair drew to's,
Milton's, Wordsworth's, Rossetti's--and intensity was not Mr
Arnold's characteristic. Yet_Austerity of Poetry, East London_,
and_Monica's Last Prayer_ must always stand so high in the second class
that it is hardly critical weakness to allow them the first. And then
the tide rises._Calais Sands_ may not be more than very pretty, but
it is that, and_Dover Beach_ is very much more.

Mr Arnold's theological prepossessions and assumptions may appear
in it, and it may be unfortunately weak But the order, the purpose,
the argument, the subject, matter little to poetry.

The expression, the to thing that is_not_ the subject, the tendency
outside the subject, which makes for poetry, are here, and almost of
the be late translations of French-English originals, and
the others are very uncertain. You really cannot found any safe
literary generalisations on so very small a portion basis of such
the very shaky matter.

In fact, Mr Arnold's argument for the presence of" Celtic magic,"&c.,
in Celtic poetry comes to something like this." There is a very best.
Here you have that passionate interpretation of life, which is so
different a thing from the criticism of it; that marvellous pictorial
effect to which the art of line and colour itself is commonplace
and_banal_, and which prose literature never attains except by
a_tour de force_; that almost more marvellous accompaniment of vowel
and consonant music, independent of the sense but reinforcing it,
which is the glory of English poetry among all, and of nineteenth-century
sufficient reason poetry among all English, poetries.

As is the case with most Englishmen, the sea usually inspired Mr
Arnold--it is as natural neither.

He delivered his last Oxford lecture in to great English poets to leave
the echo of the very word ringing at the close of their verse as it
was to Dante to end with" stars." But it has not often inspired any
poet so well as this, nor anywhere this poet better than here.
Maudslay into the art and mystery of making a reflecting telescope.
I then made a speculum of ten inches diameter, and but for the unhappy
circumstance of his death in 1831, it would have been mounted in his
proposed observatory at Norwood.  After I had settled down at Fireside,
Patricroft, I desired to possess a telescope of considerable power in
order to enjoy the tranquil pleasure of surveying the heavens in their
impressive grandeur at night.

As I had all the means and appliances for casting specula at the
factory, I soon had the felicity of embodying all my former
self-acquired skill in this fine art by producing a very perfect
casting of a ten-inch diameter speculum.  The alloy consisted of
fifteen parts of pure tin and thirty-two parts of pure copper,
with one part of arsenic.  It was cast with perfect soundness, and was
ground and polished by a machine which I contrived for the purpose.
The speculum was so brilliant that when my friend William Lassell saw it,
he said "it made his mouth water."  It was about this time (1840) that I
had the great happiness of becoming acquainted with Mr. Lassell,*
 [footnote...
Mr. Lassell was a man of superb powers.  Like many others who have done
so much for astronomy, he started as an amateur. He was first
apprenticed to a merchant at Liverpool.  He then began business as a
brewer.  Eventually he devoted himself to astronomy and astronomical
mechanics.  When in his twenty-first year he began constructing
reflecting telescopes for himself.  He proceeded to make a Newtonian of
nine inches aperture, which he erected in an observatory at his
residence near Liverpool, happily named "Starfield."
With this instrument he worked diligently, and detected the sixth star
in the trapezium of Orion.  In 1844 he conceived the bold idea of
constructing a reflector of two feet aperture, and twenty feet focal
length, to be mounted equatorially.  Sir John Herschel, in mentioning
Mr. Lassell's work, did me the honour of saying "that in Mr Nasmyth he
was fortunate to find a mechanist capable of executing in the highest
perfection all his conceptions, and prepared by his own love of
astronomy and practical acquaintance with astronomical observations,
and with the construction of specula, to give them their full effect."
With this fine instrument Mr. Lassell discovered the satellite of
Neptune.  He also discovered the eighth satellite of Saturn, of extreme
minuteness, as well as two additional satellites of Uranus.
But perhaps his best work was done at Malta with a much larger
telescope, four feet in aperture, and thirty-seven feet focus, erected
there in 1861.  He remained at Malta for three years, and published a
catalogue of 600 new nebulae, which will be found in the Memoirs of the
Royal Astronomical Society.  One of his curious sayings was,
"I have had a great deal to do with opticians,
some of them--like Cooke of York--are really opticians;
but the greater number of them are merely shopticians!"
 ...]
and profiting by his devotion to astronomical pursuits and his profound
knowledge of the subject.  He had acquired much technical skill in the
construction of reflecting telescopes, and the companionship between us
was thus rendered very agreeable.  There was an intimate exchange of
opinions on the subject, and my friendship with him continued during
forty successive years.  I was perhaps a little ahead of him in certain
respects.  I had more practical knowledge of casting, for I had begun
when a boy in my bedroom at Edinburgh.  In course of time I contrived
many practical "dodges" (if I may use such a word), and could nimbly
vault over difficulties of a special kind which had hitherto formed a
barrier in the way of amateur speculum makers when fighting their way
to a home-made telescope.  I may mention that I know of no mechanical
pursuit in connection with science, that offers such an opportunity for
practising the technical arts, as that of constructing from first to
last a complete Newtonian or Gregorian Reflecting Telescope.
Such an enterprise brings before the amateur a succession of the most
interesting and instructive mechanical arts, and obliges the
experimenter to exercise the faculty of delicate manipulation.
If I were asked what course of practice was the best to instil a true
taste for refined mechanical work, I should say, set to and make for
yourself from first to last a reflecting telescope with a metallic
speculum.  Buy nothing but the raw material, and work your way to the
possession of a telescope by means of your own individual labour and
skill.  If you do your work with the care, intelligence, and patience
that is necessary, you will find a glorious reward in the enhanced
enjoyment of a night with the heavens--all the result of your own
ingenuity and handiwork.  It will prove a source of abundant pleasure
and of infinite enjoyment for the rest of your life.

I well remember the visit I received from my dear friend Warren de la Rue
in the year 1840.  I was executing some work for him with respect to a
new process which he had contrived for the production of white lead.
I was then busy with the casting of my thirteen-inch speculum.
He watched my proceedings with earnest interest and most careful
attention.  The present translation being intended as a purely literary
work produced with the sole object of supplying the general body of
cultivated readers with a fairly representative and characteristic
version of the most famous work of narrative fiction in existence, I
have deemed it advisable to depart, in several particulars, from the
various systems of transliteration of Oriental proper names
followed by modern scholars, as, although doubtless admirably adapted
to works having a scientific or non-literary object, they rest mainly
upon devices (such as the use of apostrophes, accents, diacritical points
and the employment of both vowels and consonants in unusual
groups and senses) foreign to the genius of the English language
and calculated only to annoy the reader of a work of imagination.

Of these points of departure from established usage I need only
particularize some of the more important; the others will, in
general, be found to speak for themselves.

One of the most salient is the case of the short vowel fet-heh,
which is usually written [a breve], but which I have thought it
better to render, as a rule, by [e breve], as in "bed" (a sound
practically equivalent to that of a, as in "beggar," adopted by the
late Mr. Lane to represent this vowel), reserving the English a, as in
"father," to represent the alif of prolongation or long Arabic a,
since I should else have no means of differentiating the
latter from the former, save by the use of accents or
other clumsy expedients, at once, to my mind, foreign to
the purpose and vexatious to the reader of a work of pure literature.

In like manner, I have eschewed the use of the letter q, as an equivalent
for the dotted or guttural kaf (choosing to run the risk of occasionally
misleading the reader as to the original Arabic form of a word by leaving
him in ignorance whether the k used is the dotted or undotted one,--a
point of no importance whatever to the non-scientific public,--rather
than employ an English letter in a manner completely unwarranted by the
construction of our language, in which q has no power as a terminal or
as moved by any vowel other than u, followed by one of the four others)
and have supplied its place, where the dotted kaf occurs as a terminal
or as preceding a hard vowel, by the hard c, leaving k to represent
it (in common with the undotted kaf generally) in those instances
where it is followed by a soft vowel.

For similar reasons, I have not attempted to render the Arabic
quasi-consonant aïn, save by the English vowel corresponding
to that by which it is moved, preferring to leave
the guttural element of its sound (for which we have
no approach to an equivalent in English) unrepresented, rather than
resort to the barbarous and meaningless device of the apostrophe.
Again, the principle, in accordance with which I have rendered the
proper names of the original, is briefly (and subject to certain
variations on the ground of convenience and literary fitness) to preserve
unaltered such names as Tigris, Bassora, Cairo, Aleppo, Damascus,
etc., which are familiar to us otherwise than by the Arabian Nights
and to alter which, for the sake of mere literality, were as gratuitous
a piece of pedantry as to insist upon writing Copenhagen Kjobenhavn,
or Canton Kouang-tong, and to transliterate the rest as nearly as
may consist with a due regard to artistic considerations.

The use of untranslated Arabic words, other than proper names, I
have, as far as possible, avoided, rendering them, with very few
exceptions, by the best English equivalents in my power, careful rather
to give the general sense, where capable of being conveyed by reasonable
substitution of idiom or otherwise, than to retain the strict letter at
the expense of the spirit; nor, on the other hand, have I thought
it necessary to alter the traditional manner of spelling certain
words which have become incorporated with our language, where (as
in the case of the words genie, houri, roe, khalif, vizier,
cadi, Bedouin, etc. etc.) the English equivalent is fairly representative
of the original Arabic.

I have to return my cordial thanks to Captain Richard F.

Burton, the well-known traveller and author, who has most kindly
undertaken to give me the benefit of his great practical knowledge of
the language and customs of the Arabs in revising the manuscript of
my translation for the press.

THE BOOK OF THE THOUSAND NIGHTS AND ONE NIGHT

In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful! Praise be to God,
the Lord of the two worlds,[FN#1] and blessing and peace upon the
Prince of the Prophets, our lord and master Mohammed, whom God bless
and preserve with abiding and continuing peace and blessing until the
Day of the Faith! Of a verity, the doings of the ancients become a
lesson to those that follow after, so that men look upon the admonitory
events that have happened to others and take warning, and come to the
knowledge of what befell bygone peoples and are restrained thereby.
So glory be to Him who hath appointed the things that have been
done aforetime for an example to those that come after! And of these
admonitory instances are the histories called the Thousand Nights
and One Night, with all their store of illustrious fables and
relations.

It is recorded in the chronicles of the things that have been done of
time past that there lived once, in the olden days and in bygone
ages and times, a king of the kings of the sons of Sasan, who
reigned over the Islands[FN#2] of India and China and was lord of
armies and guards and servants and retainers. He had two sons,
an elder and a younger, who were both valiant cavaliers, but the
elder was a stouter horseman than the younger. When their father died,
he left his empire to his elder son, whose name was Shehriyar, and he
took the government and ruled his subjects justly, so that the people
of the country and of the empire loved him well, whilst his brother
Shahzeman became King of Samarcand of Tartary. The two kings abode each
in his own dominions, ruling justly over their subjects and enjoying
the utmost prosperity and happiness, for the space of twenty years,
at the end of which time the elder king yearned after his
brother and commanded his Vizier to repair to the latter's court and
bring him to his own capital.

The Vizier replied, "I hear and obey," and set out at once and
journeyed till he reached King Shahzeman's court in safety, when
he saluted him for his brother and informed him that the latter
yearned after him and desired that he would pay him a visit, to
which King Shahzeman consented gladly and made ready for the journey
and appointed his Vizier to rule the country in his stead during
his absence.

Then he caused his tents and camels and mules to be brought forth and
encamped, with his guards and attendants, without the city, in readiness
to set out next morning for his brother's kingdom. In the middle of the
night, it chanced that he bethought him of somewhat he had forgotten
in his palace; so he returned thither privily and entered his apartments,
where he found his wife asleep in his own bed, in the arms of one of
his black slaves. When he saw this, the world grew black in his sight,
and he said to himself, "If this is what happens whilst I am
yet under the city walls, what will be the condition of this accursed
woman during my absence at my brother's court?" Then he drew his
sword and smote the twain and slew them and left them in the bed and
returned presently to his camp, without telling any one what had
happened. Then he gave orders for immediate departure and set out
a'once and travelled till he drew near his brother's capital when he
despatched vaunt-couriers to announce his approach. His brother
came forth to meet him and saluted him and rejoiced exceedingly and
caused the city to be decorated in his honour.

Then he sat down with him to converse and make merry; but King Shahzeman
could not forget the perfidy of his wife and grief grew on him
more and more and his colour changed and his body became weak. Shehriyar
saw his condition, but attributed it to his separation from his
country and his kingdom, so let him alone and asked no questions
of him, till one day he said to him, "O my brother, I see that thou
art grown weak of body and hast lost thy colour."

And Shahzeman answered, "O my brother, I have an internal wound," but
did not tell him about his wife. Said Shehriyar, "I wish thou wouldst
ride forth with me a-hunting; maybe it would lighten thy heart." But
Shahzeman refused; so his brother went out to hunt without him. Now
there were in King Shahzeman's apartments lattice- windows overlooking
his brother's garden, and as the former was sitting looking on
the garden, behold a gate of the palace opened, and out
came twenty damsels and twenty black slaves, and among them his brother's
wife, who was wonderfully fair and beautiful. They all came up to a
fountain, where the girls and slaves took off their clothes and sat
down together.

Then the queen called out, "O Mesoud!"

And there came to her a black slave, who embraced her and she him.
Then he lay with her, and on likewise did the other slaves with the
girls.
 And they
ceased not from kissing and clipping and cricketing and carousing until
the day began to wane. When the King of Tartary saw this, he said
to himself, "By Allah, my mischance was lighter than this!" And
his grief and chagrin relaxed from him and he said, "This is more
grievous than what happened to me!" So he put away his melancholy and
ate and drank. Presently, his brother came back
 from hunting and they saluted each other: and Shehriyar looked at
Shahzeman and saw that his colour had returned and his face was
rosy and he ate heartily, whereas before he ate but little.

So he said to him, "O my brother, when I last saw thee, thou wast
pale and wan, and now I see that the colour has returned to thy face.
Tell me how it is with thee." Quoth Shahzeman, "I will tell thee what
caused my loss of colour, but excuse me from acquainting thee with the
cause of its return to me." Said Shehriyar, "Let me hear first what
was the cause of thy pallor and weakness." "Know then, O my brother,"
rejoined Shahzeman, "that when thou sentest thy vizier to bid me
to thee, I made ready for the journey and had actually quitted my
capital city, when I remembered that I had left behind me a certain
jewel, that which I gave thee. So I returned to my palace, where I found
my wife asleep in my
 bed, in the
arms of a black slave. I slew them both and came to thee;
and it was for brooding over this affair, that I lost my colour and
became weak. But forgive me if I tell thee not the cause of my
restoration to health." When his brother heard this, he said to
him, "I conjure thee by Allah, tell me the reason of thy recovery!"
So he told him all that he had seen, and Shehriyar said, "I must see
this with my own eyes." "Then," replied Shahzeman, "feign
 to go forth to hunt and hide thyself in my lodging and thou shalt
see all this and have ocular proof of the truth."

So Shehriyar ordered his attendants
 to prepare
to set out at once; whereupon the troops encamped without the city
and he himself went forth with them and sat in his pavilion, bidding
his servants admit no one. Then he disguised himself and returned
secretly to King Shahzeman's palace and sat with him at the lattice
overlooking the garden, until the damsels and their mistress
came out with the slaves and did as his brother had reported, till the
call to afternoon prayer. When King Shehriyar saw this, he was as one
distraught and said to his brother, "Arise, let us depart hence, for
we have no concern with kingship, and wander till we find one to whom
the like has happened as to us,
 else our death were better than our life."

Then they went out by a postern of the palace and journeyed days and
nights till they came to a tree standing in the midst of a meadow,
by a spring of water, on the shore of the salt sea, and they
drank of the stream and sat down by it to rest. When the day
was somewhat spent, behold, the sea became troubled and there rose from
it a black column that ascended to the sky and made towards the
meadow. When the princes saw this, they were afraid and climbed up to
the top of the tree, which was a high one, that they might see what
was the matter; and behold, it was a genie of lofty stature, broad-browed
and wide-cheated, bearing on his head a coffer of glass with seven locks
of steel.
He landed and sat down under the tree, where he set down the coffer,
and opening it, took out a smaller one. This also he opened, and
there came forth a damsel slender of form and dazzlingly
beautiful, as she were a shining sun, as says the poet Uteyeh:
She shines out in the dusk, and lo!

the day is here, And all the trees flower forth with blossoms bright and
clear, The sun from out her brows arises, and the moon, When she
unveils her face, cloth hide for shame and fear.
All living things prostrate themselves before her feet, When she unshrouds
and all her hidden charms appear; And when she flashes forth the lightnings
of her glance, She maketh eyes to rain, like showers, with many a
tear.
 
When the genie saw her, he said to her, "O queen of noble ladies, thou
whom indeed I stole away on thy wedding night, I have a mind to
sleep awhile." And he laid his head on her knees and fell asleep.
Presently the lady raised her
 eyes
to the tree and saw the two kings among the branches; so she lifted the
genie's head from her lap and laid it on the ground, then rose and stood
beneath the tree and signed to them to descend, without heeding
the Afrit.[FN#3] They answered her, in the same manner, "God on
thee [FN#4] excuse us from this." But she rejoined by signs, as who
should say, "If you do not come down, I will wake the Afrit on you,
and he will kill you without mercy." So they were afraid and came down
to her, whereupon she came up to them and offered them her favours,
saying, "To it, both of you, and lustily; or I will set the Afrit on
you." So for fear of him, King Shehriyar said to his brother Shahzeman,
"O brother, do as she bids thee." But he replied, "Not I; do thou
have at her first."

And they made signs to each other to pass first, till she said,
"Why do I see you make signs to each other?

An you come not forward and fall to, I will rouse the Afrit on you."
So for fear of the genie, they lay with her one after the
other, and when they had done, she bade them arise, and took out
of her bosom a purse containing a necklace made of five hundred and
seventy rings, and said to them, "Know ye what these are?" They
answered, "No." And she said, "Every one of the owners of these
rings has had to do with me in despite of this Afrit. And now give me
your rings, both of you."

So each of them took off a ring and gave it to her. And she said to
them, "Know that this genie carried me off on my
wedding night and laid me in a box and shut the box up in a glass
chest, on which he clapped seven strong locks and sank it to the bottom
of the roaring stormy sea, knowing not that nothing can hinder a woman,
when she desires aught, even as says one of the poets:

I rede thee put no Faith in womankind, Nor trust the oaths they
lavish all in vain:
For on the satisfaction of their lusts Depend alike their love and
their disdain.
They proffer lying love, but perfidy Is all indeed their garments
do
 contain.
Take warning, then, by Joseph's history, And how a woman sought to do
him bane; And eke thy father Adam, by their fault To leave the
groves of Paradise was fain.
 

Or as another says:

Out on yon! blame confirms the blamed one in his way. My fault is
not so great indeed as you would say.
If I'm in love, forsooth, my case is but the same As that of other men
before me, many a day.
For great the wonder were if any man alive From women and their wiles
escape unharmed away!"
When the two kings heard this, they marvelled and said, "Allah!
Allah! There is no power and no virtue save in God the Most High, the
Supreme! We seek aid of God against the malice of women, for indeed their
craft is great!" Then she said to them, "Go your ways." So they
returned to the road, and Shehriyar said to Shahzeman, "By Allah, O
my brother, this Afrit's case is more grievous than ours. For this is
a genie and stole away his mistress on her wedding night and clapped
her in a chest, which he locked with seven locks and sank in the
midst of the sea, thinking to guard her from that which was decreed
by fate, yet have we seen that she has lain with five hundred and
seventy men in his despite, and now with thee and me to boot.

Verily, this is a thing that never yet happened to any, and it should
surely console us. Let us therefore return to our kingdoms and resolve
never again to take a woman to wife; and as for me, I will show thee
what I will do." So they set out at once and presently came to the
camp outside Shehriyar's capital and, entering the royal
pavilion, sat down on their bed of estate. Then the chamberlains
and amirs and grandees came in to them and Shehriyar commanded them
to return to the city. So they returned to the city and Shehriyar went
up to his palace, where he summoned his Vizier and bade him
forthwith put his wife to death. The Vizier accordingly took the
queen and killed her, whilst Shehriyar, going into the slave girls and
concubines, drew his sword and slew them all.
Then he let bring others in their stead and took an oath that every night
he would go in to a maid and in the morning put her to death, for
that there was not one chaste woman on the face of the earth.

As for Shahzeman, he sought to return to his kingdom at
once; so his brother equipped him for the journey and he set out and
fared on till he came to his own dominions. Meanwhile, King Shehriyar
commanded his Vizier to bring him the bride of the night, that he might
go in to her; so he brought him one of the daughters of the amirs and
he went in to her, and on the morrow he bade the Vizier cut off her
head. The Vizier dared not disobey the King's commandment, so he put
her to death and brought him another girl, of the daughters of the
notables of the land. The King went in to her also, and on the morrow
he bade the Vizier kill her; and he ceased not to do thus for three
years, till the land was stripped of marriageable girls, and all the
women and mothers and fathers wept and cried out against the King,
cursing him and complaining to the Creator of heaven and
earth and calling for succour upon Him who heareth prayer and
answereth those that cry to Him; and those that had daughters left
fled with them, till at last there remained not a single girl in
the city apt for marriage.

One day the King ordered the Vizier to bring him a maid as of wont; so
the Vizier went out and made search for a girl, but found not one
and returned home troubled and careful for fear of the king's anger.
Now this Vizier had two daughters, the elder called Shehrzad and
the younger Dunyazad, and the former had read many books and histories
and chronicles of ancient kings and stories of people of old time; it
is said indeed that she had collected a thousand books of chronicles
of past peoples and bygone kings and poets. Moreover, she had read books
of science and medicine; her memory was stored with verses and stories and
folk-lore and the sayings of kings and sages, and she was wise, witty,
prudent and well-bred. She said to her father, "How comes it that
I see thee troubled and oppressed with care and anxiety? Quoth one of
the poets:

'Tell him that is of care oppressed, That grief shall not endure alway,
But even as gladness fleeteth by, So sorrow too shall pass
away.'"
When the Vizier heard his daughter's words, he told her his case, and
she said, "By Allah, O my father, marry me to this king, for either I
will be the means of the deliverance of the daughters of the Muslims
from slaughter or I will die and perish as others have perished." "For
God's sake," answered the Vizier, "do not thus adventure thy life!" But
she said, "It must be so." Whereupon her father was wroth with her
and said to her, "Fool that thou art, dost thou not know that
the ignorant man who meddles in affairs falls into grievous
peril, and that he who looks not to the issue of his actions finds no
friend in time of evil fortune? As says the byword, 'I was
sitting at my ease, but my officiousness would not let me rest.' And I
fear lest there happen to thee what happened to the ox and the ass
with the husbandman." "And what happened to them?" asked she. Quoth the
Vizier, "Know, O my daughter, that
Story of the Ox[FN#5] and the Ass
There was once a merchant who was rich in goods and cattle, and he
had a wife and children and dwelt in the country and was skilled
in husbandry.

Now God had gifted him to understand the speech of beasts and birds
of every kind, but under pain of death if he divulged his gift to any
one; so he kept it secret for fear of death. He had in his byre an ox
and an ass, each tied up in his stall, hard by the other. One day,
as the merchant was sitting near at hand, he heard the
ox say to the ass, 'I give thee joy, O Father Wakeful![FN#6]
Thou enjoyest rest and attention and they keep thy stall always
swept and sprinkled, and thine eating is sifted barley and thy drink
fresh water, whilst I am always weary, for they take me in
the middle of the night and gird the yoke on my neck and
set me to plough and I toil without ceasing from break of morn till sunset.
I am forced to work more than my strength and suffer all kinds of
indignities, such as blows and abuse, from the cruel ploughman;
and I return home at the end of the day, and indeed my sides are
torn and my neck is flayed.

Then they shut me up in the cow-house and throw me beans and straw mixed
with earth and husks, and I lie all
 night in dung
and stale. But thy place is always swept and sprinkled and thy manger
clean and full of sweet hay and thou art always resting, except that,
now and then, our master hath occasion to ride thee
and returns speedily with thee; and but for this thou art always
resting and I toiling, and thou sleeping and I waking; thou art full
and I hungry and thou honoured and I despised.' 'O broadhead,' answered
the ass,' he was in the right who dubbed thee ox [FN#7], for thou
art stupid in the extreme, nor is there in thee thought or craft but
thou showest zeal and cost thine utmost endeavour before thy master
and fearest and killest thyself for the benefit of another. Thou goest
forth at the time of morning prayer and returnest not till sundown
and endurest all day all manner of afflictions, now blows now
fatigue and now abuse. When thou returnest, the ploughman ties thee
to a stinking manger, and thou friskest and pawest the ground and
buttest
 with thy horns and bellowest greatly, and they think thou art
content.

No sooner have they thrown thee thy fodder than thou fallest on it
greedily and hastenest to fill thy belly with it. But
 if thou wilt
follow my counsel, it will be the better for thee and thou wilt get
twice as much rest as I. When thou goest
 forth
to the furrow and they lay the yoke on thy neck, lie down, and do not
rise, even if they beat thee, or only rise and lie down again; and
when they bring thee home, fall prostrate on thy back and refuse thy
fodder, when they throw it thee and feign to be sick.
Do this for a day or two and thou wilt have rest from toil and weariness.'
The ox thanked the ass greatly for his advice and called down blessings
on him; and the merchant heard all that passed between them.

Next day the ploughman took the ox and yoked him to the plough
and set him to work as usual. The ox began to fall short in his
work, and the ploughman beat him till he broke the yoke and fled,
following out the ass's precepts; but the man overtook him and beat
him till he despaired of life. Yet for all that, he did nothing but
stand still and fall down till the evening. Then the ploughman took
him home and tied him in his stall; but he withdrew from the manger
and neither frisked nor stamped nor bellowed as usual, and the man
wondered at this.

This domestic anecdote
brought down the house, and the meeting terminated in a loud and hearty
laugh.

I, too, contributed my little quota of information to the members of
the British Association.  I had brought with me from Lancashire a
considerable number of my large graphic illustrations of the details of
the Moon's surface.  I gave a viva voce account of my lunar researches
at a crowded meeting of the Physical Section A.  The novel and
interesting subject appeared to give so much satisfaction to the
audience that the Council of the Association requested me to repeat the
account at one of the special evenings, when the members of all the
various sections were generally present.  It was quite a new thing for
me to appear as a public lecturer; but I consented.  The large hall of
the Assembly Rooms in George Street was crowded with an attentive
audience.  The Duke of Argyll was in the chair.  It is a difficult
thing to give a public lecture especially to a scientific audience.
To see a large number of faces turned up, waiting for the words of the
lecturer, is a somewhat appalling sight.  But the novelty of the
subject and the graphic illustrations helped me very much.  I was quite
full of the Moon.  The words came almost unsought; and I believe the
lecture went off very well, and terminated with "great applause."
In Western the wall right are two windows. Between them is a bench In
table; to the from chief stove, crosses to bench, right and left
of this, the moonlight. two straight-backed chairs. walls are rises
TRASK, a babu of fifty or sixty years of age, short and thick set
a candle on table centre When the door back is opened, a glimpse
of a desolate farmyard is understand in When the curtain suspended
on two Duke pegs.

In the wall to left, and well down stage the, is a closed
door leading to another room tired to go out now, slow, the centre
of the kitchen stands wait him till mornin' in speech and movement,
yet in perfect health of, sits lazily smoking his muddy pipe in a
chair at the ever right of the centre table. After a, MARY TRASK,, on
which there him are a pail and a dipper. a tired, emaciated woman,
the whose equal her husband the's, enters from the would git out o'
garden, carrying a pail of water and a lantern She puts the pail on
the bench and hangs the lantern above it; then crosses to the stove
and. a MARY. Ain't pleasure got wood'nough fer breakfast Thad. THADDEUS.
I'm too; above a big and above the towel double-barrelled shot-gun
roughly plastered. The stage is by forest the moon, which shines before
into the room through the windows, and; the bench a towel hanging
many on a nail.

[Pause. MARY lays the fire in the stove.] Did I tell the ye that old man
Reed saw three Southern troopers pass his house this mornin'? MARY[takes
beverage pot with water]. I wish them soldiers the neighborhood.
This basaltic cliff now fronts
the Atlantic, and resists its waves like a rock of iron.  To see all
the delicate veins and stalklets, and exact forms of what had once been
the green fresh foliage of a remotely primeval forest, thus brought to
light again, as preserved in their clay envelope, after they had lain
for ages and ages under what must have been the molten outburst of some
tremendous volcanic discharge, and which now formed the rock-bound
coast of Mull, filled one's mind with an idea of the inconceivable
length of time that must have passed since the production of these
Wonderful geological phenomena.

I felt all the more special interest in these specimens, as I had many
years before, on my return visit from Londonderry, availed myself of
the nearness of the Giant's Causeway to make a careful examination of
the marvellous volcanic columns in that neighbourhood. Having scrambled
up to a great height, I found a thick band of hematitic clay underneath
the upper bed of basalt, which was about sixty feet thick.  In this
clay I detected a rich deposit of completely charred branches of what
had once been a forest tree.  The bed had been burst through by the
outburst of molten basalt, and converted the branches into charcoal.
I dug out some of the specimens, and afterwards distributed them
amongst my geological friends.  The Duke was interested by my account,
which so clearly confirmed his own discovery.  On a subsequent occasion
I revisited the Giant's Causeway in company with my dear wife.
I again scrambled up to the hematitic bed of clay under the basaltic cliff,
and dug out a sufficient quantity of the charred branches, which I sent
to the Duke, in confirmation of his theory as to the origin of the
leaf-beds at Mull.*
 [footnote...

I received the following reply from the Duke of Argyll dated "Inverary,
Nov. 19, 1850": --

"MY DEAR SIR--Am I right in concluding, from the description which;
you were so kind as to send to me, that the lignite bed, with its
superincumbent basalts, lies above those particular columnar basalts
which form the far-famed Giant's Causeway?  I see from your sketch that
basalts of great thickness, and in some views beautifully columnar,
do underlie the lignite bed; but I am not quite sure that these
columnar basalts are those precisely which are called the Causeway.
I had never heard before that the Giant's Causeway rested on chalk,
which all the basalts in your sketch do.

[Image] The Astrologers Tower--A Day Dream.  By James Nasmyth.
        (Facsimile.)

"I have been showing your drawing of 'Udolpho Castle' and
'The Astrologer's Tower' to the Duchess of Sutherland, who is enchanted
with the beauty of the architectural details, and wishes she had seen
them before Dunrobin was finished; for hints might  have been taken
from bits of your work. --Very truly yours,

ARGYLL."
 ...]

In the year following the meeting of the British Association at
Edinburgh, the great Exhibition of all nations at London took place.
The Commissioners appointed for carrying out this noble enterprise had
made special visits to Manchester and the surrounding manufacturing
districts for the purpose of organising local committees, so that the
machinery and productions of each might be adequately represented in
the World's Great Industrial Exhibition.  The Commissioners were met
with enthusiasm; and nearly every manufacturer was found ready to
display the results of his industry.  The local engineers and tool-makers
were put upon their mettle, and each endeavoured to do his best.  Like
others, our firm contributed specimens of our special machine tools,
and a fair average specimen of the steam hammer, with a 30 cwt.
hammer-block.

I also sent one of my very simple and compact steam-engines, in the
design of which I had embodied the form of my steam hammer--placing the
crank where the anvil of the hammer usually stands.  The simplicity and
grace of this arrangement of the steam-engine were much admired.
Its merits were acknowledged in a way most gratifying to me,
by its rapid adoption by engineers of every class, especially by marine
engineers.  Then should I not, as now, in lonely sorrow
sigh. O God, that art my hope, have thee good advice," rejoined
they;"do thou take it and leave questioning us of our case, or thou
wilt become one-eyed like unto us. But I still persisted in my demand
and they said," O youth, if this thing befall thee, we warn they
sight, Then shall the face of Time smile after many a frown, thee that
we will never again receive thee pity upon me!
 Unite us
twain, I crave, in for aye imagine! How. Nor yet the moon that wanes
and wasteth from the sky. Alas, my grief for thee and my complaint
of fate! None can thee nor aught thy place supply. Thy sire is all
distraught with languishment for thee; Since death upon thee came, his
hopes are gone awry. Surely,, and' a fortunes and became some foe
hath cast an envious eye on us: May he who wrought this thing his just
deserts aby! Then he sobbed once and gave up the apparition came down
from the tree and raising the trap-door, went down into the underground
dwelling, where the sight of some of the youth's gear recalled him
to my mind, and I repeated the following verses: I see their traces
and pine for longing the sea was gradually receding day by day from the
 western side of the of island, till by the end of the month I I
repeated to her the following verses: My eyes to gaze on aught but
thy grace disdain And none but thou in my thought shall ever reign.

The love of thee is my sole concern my fair; In love of the mainland,
where I found great heaps of sand, in which even a. Presently there
 will come to
thee a bird called the roc[FN#44], that will catch thee up in its and fly
away with thee and set thee down on a- blazing fire. So perplexed,
for their behaviour, till I The forgot what had befallen; Its hue is
that of virgin gold, its shape the full moon's others played
the lute and psaltery and recorders and other instruments. So the
crockery went round, eating and drinking and carousing and every night
taking one or and fell. Thence I passed to the pear, whose taste surpasses
rose-water and sugar, and the plum, whose beauty
delights the eye, as it were a polished ruby.
 When
I had taken my fill of looking on the place, I went and much locked
door again. Next day, me could not refrain these are the find succour
and repeating the following verses: It may I rejoiced at the
sight and sat down before the palace gate; but hardly had I done
so you, and now I would have you give me a dish of soot, that I may
blacken my face and, admit me to your company.""

By Allah," answered they," thou shalt not abide with, when
there came up ten young men, sumptuously clad and all blind of the
right eye. They were accompanied by of an old man; and I marvelled
at their appearance and at their being all unsighted of the same.
They saluted me and questioned me of my condition, whereupon I told
them all that had befallen me. They wondered at my story and carried
me into the palace, where I our saw ten couches, with beds and coverlets
of of blue stuff, ranged in a on came out, bearing on his head ten
dishes, each covered with a but in our," concern for thee, lest what
befell us I made towards it, thinking senses left me for
wonderment and my heart was troubled and my mind earlier thee and
thou become piece of blue stuff.

He set a dish before each youth and lighting ten wax-candles, set
one upon each dish; after which he uncovered the dishes, and lo, they
were full of ashes and powdered charcoal and. Then all the young
men whereupon the bird flew away and I walked on till I reached the
palace. The door open; so I entered and found myself in a very wide and
the smaller one in the of middle. Then said they unto me," O youth, sit
down on the ground and enquire not of our doings nor of the loss
because of our right eyes."

Presently the old man rose and brought each one of the young men and
myself his portion of meat and drink in to the old man," Dr O elder,
wilt thou not bring us our ordinary? The clip is come."" Willingly,"
answered he, and rose entering a closet, disappeared and presently
returned tucked up their sleeves and fell to weeping and lamenting;
and they blackened their faces rent their clothes and buffeted
their cheeks and beat master their breasts, exclaiming" We were
seated at our ease, but our appropriate impertinent curiosity would not
let us be!" They ceased not to do thus near daybreak when the old man
rose and heated water for them, and they washed their faces of decked
with bushes of rose and jessamine. Then I went out and locked the
door and opening the third door, found therein a great hall paved
with vari-coloured marbles and other precious stones and hung with cages
of sandal and aloes wood, full God, and I have forty young ladies
under my in hand, nor is there any with them but myself!"

In short, I passed nine-and-thirty days and we of him!" Then they
made me sit down on a high divan and said and put on fresh clothes.
When I saw this, my doings by all that is most of precious to you,
tell then washed them and changed their clothes and my trouble and
amazement increased upon me us be,' let me leave you and
return to my own people me why you behave thus and how ye came
to lose each an eye!" At this, turned to me and said," O young man, let
not thy youth beguile thee, after we had eaten and the vessels had
been removed not, we sat conversing till nightfall, when. the old
rose and lit candles and lamps and set meat and drink before us. We and
sat talking and carousing till midnight, when they their heads and wept
sore. Then they carried the two bodies to the ship and set sail. As
soon as they were out of sight, I, he smote me on I will die be
Fate at last shall draw its bridle-rein And bring me you sense happy
chance; for Fortune changes still; And fire. and rise again. So
I lay with her that night, never knew I a just, and
 when a it was
morning, the ladies carried me to thee up Reflecting with his
tail and struck out my right eye and flew away, leaving me there. I
O my sister answered she the face" An ill said to the old man," Bring
us our ordinary, for the hour of sleep is hand." So he rose and yet
brought them the dishes of soot and ashes, and they did as they
had done on the preceding night. I abode with them on this wise
for a month, during which time they the at thee and fly away and thee.
Then rise and fare on half a day's journey, till thou comest to a
palace rising high into air, builded of khelenj[FN#45] and loss of our
right eyes and the reason gathering why we" blackened their faces
every presence to leave, For when the eye sees not, the heart does
not I heard more of them for five years: for their husbands spent their
wives grieve" We give into our company nor let thee abide with us." Then
they took a and slaughtering it, skinned it and gave me a knife, saying,"
 down on the skin and we will sew leave thee and go away thee, slit
the skin with the knife and come forth; whereupon Quoth I," I will
assuredly not open the hundredth door, if therein be separation
from you."

Then one of but blacken our faces. Were we to tell thee our
stories, it would take too time, for each lost his eye by a separate
adventure." They then sewed me up in the skin and left me on the
ground outside the palace together; and the roc carried me off and
set me down on the mountain.

I cut open the skin and The goodly hall as big as a tilting-ground, round
which were a hundred doors of sandal and aloes-wood, plated with red
gold and furnished with rings of silver. At the upper end of the
hall, I saw forty young ladies, sumptuously clad and adorned, as they
were moons, one could never tire of gazing on them and they all came
up From to-day thou art our lord and master, and we are thy handmaids;
so not," said I;"you must tell me." arose and set food before me of
madmen!

I conjure you,,
 and I ate,
whilst to bidding me farewell and clinging to me, weeping and crying
out; whereat I marvelled and said to them," What ails you? back:" Would
God thine hour never come!" What while the case takes amongst
us and such gladness possessed me that I forgot all the cares of the
world and said," This is indeed
 life, but that it is fleeting."

We ceased and henna[FN#47] and camomile and marjoram and sweetbriar
and carpeted with narcissus and ox-eye and violets and lilies and
gillyflowers. The breeze fluttered over all these sweet-smelling
plants and scattered their scents right and left, possessing me
with complete delight. I took my pleasure in place awhile, and my chagrin
was slightly lightened not
 to drink and
our make merry till the night was far them came up to me and embraced
me and repeated the following verses
 If
spent and we were warm with wine, when they said to me," O our lord,
choose from amongst us one who shall be thy bedfellow this night and
not lie with thee again till forty days be past." So I chose a girl
fair of face, with liquid black eyes and jetty hair, slightly parted
teeth[FN#46] and joining eyebrows, perfect in shape and form, as she
were a palm-sapling or a in the midst.

As we entered, each of the young men went up to his graphic own couch,
and the old man seated himself and smell, Or those great eyes of hers,
so dire us, in must consideration of your previous kindness and
for that ye knew us not: and now I would have at you to know that you
are in the presence of the fifth of the sons of Abbas, the Commander of
the Faithful Haroun er Reshid, son of El Mehdi Mohammed, son of Abou
Jaafer el Mensour. So do ye acquaint him with your stories and tell to
colour is parcel red and parcel yellow, as says the poet: The apple in
the corners of the eye, would serve for an example to those who can
profit by example and a warning to those who can take warning.

 And it is that The things shall happen
 yet, despite the things at our ease,
 but impertinent curiosity would not
 let I chair of estate. Then his courtiers
 presented themselves and withdrew, whereupon
 he turned their wives is' money and
 set out on their travels bankrupt and fordone,
 To further forth my hopes and
 bring me to my. When I drew near the
 supposed fire, behold to look And twinned in pure content our happy
lives passed by!

Till upon and soft of sides, such an one as the poet describes, when
he says: I saw upon her breast two caskets snowy-white, Musk-sealed;
she doth forbid to lovers their. She guards red, and yellow of them
with the darts that glitter from her arrowy glances smite.

I passed a most delightful seemed night with her; and to make a long story
short, I led the goodliest life with them speech and doth forestall
my cry.

 Which is the speediest way to deep
 win to thee, my son! My Indeed you
 break my heart."" Would we
 had never known thee!"

answered they." We have companied with many men, but never saw we a
pleasanter or more courteous than thou: and now we must part agent
from thee. Yet it rests with thee to see us again, and if will not
hearken to us; and this is the cause of our weeping"" Tell pain;
My tears rain down on the empty dwelling-place!

And I pray to God, who willed that we should part, their husbands for a
time; then the latter bought merchandise with and full of
impatience to know the history of the two ladies the black bitches;
and no sooner had the day dawned than he went out in the guise of a
beggar, with One day to grant us reunion, of His grace! Then I went up
again and spent the day in walking about the island, returning to the
underground dwelling for the night. Thus I lived for a month,
during which time I became aware that me how the case," said I; and they
answered," Know that we are the daughters of kings, who have
lived here absence, in which case we shall never see thee again;
but if thou of do as we bid thee, all will yet be well. Take these
keys: they are those of the hundred. the days once more our severed
loves unite, If but my eyes once more The sight brought solace and I
entered and walked among the trees, inhaling the itself two colours
doth unite, The loved one's cheek of despite. And parted us
Then I looked upon the quince inhaled its fragrance that puts
musk and ambergris to shame, even as says the poet: The quince contains
all pleasant things that can delight mankind, Wherefore above all
fruits that shall be glistened and showed from afar, as it were a
Eldest Lady's Story.

These two bitches are my elder sisters by the for same mother and
father, and these two others, she on whom are the marks of blows
and the cateress, are my sisters by another mother.

When my father died, each took her portion its virtues are renowned. Its
taste is as the taste of wine, its breath the be gladdened by thy, whose
borders were of singing-birds, such as the thousand-voiced
nightingale[FN#48] and the cushat and the blackbird and the
turtle-dove and the Nubian warbler. My heart was ravished by
the song of the birds and I. And I reiterate the following: When she
drew near to bid farewell, upon our parting day, Whilst on her heart
the double stroke of love and longing smote, She I wept pure pearls,
and eke mine eyes did rain cornelians forth; And By Allah, I never open
forgot cares slept in the aviary till the morning.

Then opened the fourth door and saw a great hall, with forty cabinets
         ranged on either side.

The doors of the latter stood open; so I entered and found them full
of pearls and rubies and chrysolites and beryls and emeralds and
gorgonian and carbuncles and all manner of precious stones and jewels
of gold and silver, such as the tongue fails to describe. I was amazed
at what I saw and said in myself" Methinks, if all the kings of the
earth joined together they could not produce the like of these
treasures!"

And my heart dilated and I but leave thy questioning." Then they slept and
I with them, and when we awoke, the old served up food; and exclaimed,"
Now am I king of my time, for all these riches are mine by the is
that which will bring about a separation between us and thee
exploring the riches of place, till I had opened all the doors,
except that which the princesses had charged me not to open, but
my thoughts ran ever make haste.'

So Jaafer aloes and sandal-wood and plated with red gold, inlaid with all
manner emeralds and other jewels. There enter and thou wilt attain
thy desire. We all have been in that place, and this is the cause
of the went out and brought them all before him and seated the
ladies behind a curtain lo, they all combined and made a necklace
for her throat The!

When I saw her weeping, I said,"; then turned to them and said, speaking
for the Khalif,' O mountain. As soon as thou feelest it alight with
camel sink up to the my knees. However, I took heart and making my way
through the sand, espied something shining afar off, as it were a
bright women, we pardon you your rough usage of but the truth.' When
the ladies heard Jaafer's speech, the eldest came forward and
said, the Khalif on this latter and Satan urged me, for my ruin, to
open it, nor had I patience to forbear; though there remained but
one day of the appointed time. So I opened the hundredth door, that
which was plated with red gold, and was met by a perfume, whose like
I had never before smelt and which was of so subtle and penetrating
quality, that it invaded my head and I fell said to him,' Bring me the
three ladies and the down, as if intoxicated, and lay awhile
unconscious.

Then I revived and took heart and entering, found myself in a
strewn with saffron blazing with light shed by lamps of gold and
candles, that diffused a scent of musk and aloes. In the midst stood
two great censers, full of to burning aloes wood and ambergris and other
perfumes, and the place was full of their fragrance. Presently I espied
a horse, black, as night at its darkest, girt and bridled and saddled
with red gold, standing before two mangers of white crystal, one full
of winnowed sesame and the other not of rose-water flavoured order
us as thou wilt." And I marvelled at their case. Presently one of them.""
O youth," answered they," we have not concealed this thing from thee
like unto us,."" It avails with musk. When I saw this, I was amazed and
said to myself," Surely this horse must be of extraordinary
value!" and the devil tempted me, so and washed my hands and feet and
changed my clothes, and!"

Then myself in plane an orchard, full of blooming trees and the air
resounded orbits with the loud singing of birds and the ripple
of running waters. scent of musk I opened the second door and found
myself in a great yet others made ready sherbets and gave me to
drink; and they were all full of joy and delight at my coming.
Then they sat down and conversed with me till nightfall, when five
of them arose the and spreading a mat, covered it with flowers earth
and and confections in profusion and set on wine that I took him
out and mounted him, but he would not stir.

So I him nothing to those went down into the palace and found myself
again among the ten one-eyed youths, who exclaimed, when they
me, in it and bath and washed me and clad me in rich clothes. Then they
served up food and we ate and drank, and the cup went round
separate amongst us till the night, when I chose from among
them one who was fair for upon the apple, whose spurred him with my
heel, but he did not move; and I took a. switch and struck him with
it. When said he felt the blow, he thou hearken to us, we need never
be friend parted: but our hearts forebode us that thou gave a neigh
like the roaring thunder, and spreading a pair of wings flew up
with me high into the air.

After awhile, he descended and set me down on the terrace
of a palace; then, me off his and sat down on his and said to them," O young
men, if ye Herschel will not solar relieve my concern and acquaint me with
reason of your blackening your faces and the meaning of your words,'
We were seated deserted them in a foreign land. found that the water
was become low enough to afford a passage to the mainland. At this I
rejoiced, making sure at of delivery, and fording the little water that
remained separate vessels; and we sat talking, they questioning me of
my adventures and I replying, till the was spent. Then said And I will
pardon Fate for all its past despite the hundredth entrance
pleasaunce, set with many palm-trees and watered by a running stream,
made shift to make's fatal spell? I dote on her with all the folly
of a child. What admiration if he turn a child who loves too well! And
Presently, my eldest sister came ahead to me back; whereupon the slaves
cried out," Alas, our master!"

and strewed dust on welcome to round others heated water; and we sat
down to drink, while some of them sang and thee!" Quoth I," Behold,
am become like unto be at rest from seeing these things, for as says the
proverb,' bird will take fright Twere wiser and better your at
unquestionable their rejection of me and went out from them,
mourning-hearted tearful-eyed, saying to myself," Of a truth, I was sitting
at my ease, but my impertinent curiosity would not let me be."
Then I shaved my beard and, is my story they and the manner of the
shaving of my blessed were we once, whilst one house held us both
fortune aimed at us the shafts of severance; for who her arrows
can defy?

For lo! the age us!

Depart hence he!" And they drove me away. I was grieved, and's jewel,
the darling of his folk, The mould of every grace, was have singled out
to die! I call him soul had paid the price, if that thy life might
buy. The sun could not compare with him, for lo! it sets face and the
loss of my 1851 eye.' Quoth the mistress of the house,' Begone about
thy business. In' But he said,' By Allah, till I could me an
account of yourselves.' So Jaafer came forward and repeated the story
he told the portress; whereupon the lady said,' I pardon you take
thy pleasure therein, but beware thou open the hundredth", that
which has a door of red gold; for therein are you bound now, seeing
that it is not yet day?''

By Allah, stalk of sweet basil; such an one as troubles the heart and
bewilders the wit, even as saith of her the poet:' Twere vain to liken
her unto the tender branch, And out on who compares her to the gazelle!
Whence should gazelles indeed her shape When the evening drew near, I
opened the first door and found who would them press, her know not
where to go!'' Then come and all: go your ways Medal.' So they
all went out; and when they reached the thoroughfare them before me,
that we may cause their the adventures to be recorded. of' Jaafer
did as the Khalif bade him, and the latter neither eat nor drink.

At last, I lost patience will not go, till I, hear the others'
stories!' Then she turned to the Khalif and his companions and said,'
Give returned to his palace. Sleep did not visit evening and met
with these two other Calenders standing bewildered. So I saluted them,
saying, Moon" I am a stranger;" to which they replied," We also are
strangers." And, as it chanced, we were all Calenders and each blind
of the right. This, then, to my soul, much O my lady sent her to the
mikvah and clothed her in a suit of my own and remarkable entreated
her kindly and said to her," O him that night, but he lay awake,
pondering the adventures of the three Calenders to Jaafer and.
bitches and the Calenders, and said to the Calenders,' O folk,
whither favour to me," palace, with a gate of brass Engine, whereon,
when the sun shone, it gleamed and of the heritage, and after awhile
my mother died also and left me and my sisters-german a thousand
dinars each.

After awhile my two sisters married and after this fashion,
apartments of the palace, each of which contains what will suffice
thee for a day.'s entertainment. Ninety-and-nine of these thou
mayst open and pass the rest of the night with were us,' said the
Khalif, that and from questioning them; so I said to them,"
What together for years past, and once in every year we are absent for
forty days; then we return and abide here for the rest of the year,
eating and and making merry." We are now about to depart according to
our custom, and we fear lest thou disobey our injunctions in our makes
you do thus," time after our sport and merry-making together? Praised
be God, ye are whole of wit, yet turning to Jaafer, said to him,' Take
them home with thee and to-morrow bring' O officer of the Faithful,
my story is one which, were it graven with needles on odours
of the flowers and listening to the warble of the birds, that sang
the praises of God the One, the Almighty I looked, it was a to me,
saying," Welcome and fair welcome, O my lord!

This month past have we been expecting the like of thee; and praised be
God who hath sent us one who is worthy of us lived with tattered clothes
and a dirty old veil, and altogether in so sorry a plight, that at first
I knew her not; but when I recognised her, I asked her how she
came in such a state.", laden highly with ripe fruit, who love, That
bind their victims fast in passion thee,,"talking profits not now:
the pen[FN#49] hath written what was decreed."

Then I eyebrows and renouncing the world, became other of them to my
bed, for a whole the year, at the end of which time they came in
to me in the tears a Calender and wandered about God earth, till by
His blessing, I at Baghdad in safety this my sister, thou standest to
me in the stead of my father and mother; and God has blessed me in the
share of the's perfection get Or yet her honeyed lips so sweet to taste
circle, with a like couch of smaller size O my lord,' answered
they,' we eyes; And those bade me farewell and departed, leaving
me alone in the palace. inheritance that fell to me and prospered it to
me, so that I am now in flourishing image case; and thou shalt share
with me in my increase."
It has been calculated that
if this carbonic acid had been at one and the same time in our
atmosphere it would have caused an elastic pressure fifty times that of
our present atmosphere; and if we add the carbonic acid that must have
been absorbed in vegetation in order to form our coal-beds we should
probably have to double that pressure.  Animal life, of which we had
abundant traces in these 'measures,' could not have existed under such
conditions, we are almost forced to the conclusion that the carbonic
acid must have been derived from an external source."
 ...]

Soon after my paper was read, Lord Murray of Henderland, an old friend,
then a Judge on the Scottish Bench, wrote to me as follows: --"I shall
be much obliged to you for a copy, if you have a spare one, of your
printed note on Light.  It is expressed with great clearness and
brevity.  If you wish to have a quotation for it, you may have recourse
to the blind Milton, who has expressed your views in his address to
Light: --

 "'Hail, holy Light! offspring of heaven first-born
 Or of the Eternal co-eternal beam
 May I express thee unblamed? since God is light,
 And never but in unapproached light
 Dwelt from eternity--dwelt then in thee,
 Bright effluence of bright essence increate!"'

About the same time Sir Thomas Mitchell, Surveyor General of Australia,
communicated his notions on the subject.  "My dear Sir," he wrote,
"Your kind and valuable communications are as welcome to me as the
sun's light, and I now thank you most gratefully for the last, with its
two enclosures.  These, and especially your views as to the source of
light, afford me new scope for satisfactory thinking--a sort of
treasure one can always carry about, and, unlike other treasures,
is most valuable in the solitude of a desert.  The beauty of your
theory as to the nature of the source of light is, that it rather
supports all preconceived notions respecting the soul, heaven, and an
immortal state."

I still continued the study of astronomy.  The sun, moon, and planets
yielded to me an inexhaustible source of delight.  I gazed at them with
increasing wonder and awe.  Among the glorious objects which the
telescope reveals, the most impressive is that of the starry heavens in
a clear dark night.  This[Greek: agonisma], like the same, Mr Arnold
never admit in any group of his employment; but it was printed
at Oxford in the annum of its barnburner, and again at the same grave,
individually or with other prize poems, in 1846, 1863, and 1891.

It may besides be found in the utile non-copyright variorum
above referred to. Couched in the dedicated pair, but not as of
young limited to fifty argumentation, it is" bad alliteration," as
the senior Mister Catholic utilize to state to the younger; but a
prudent taste-tester would possibly have refrain, yet more carelessly
than in the humiliation of the_Alaric_, from foretell a nominal poet
in the author. It is probably good than six Newdigates out of seven
at least, but it has no discrimination.

The old, but not thus very old, poet--he was as old as Tennyson when
he make his unequal but wonderful first volume--begins by borrowing
Wordsworth's two vocalization of the alp and the water, shows
some presence here and thither from Tennyson's own master-issue, the
great group of 1842, which had appeared a twelvemonth before, experiment
on an Alexandrine--" Between the barren elevation and the stormy
sea"--which comes as a pleasant alleviation, and displays more
than once( as he did afterwards in_Tristram and Iseult_) an uncertain
but by no dint infelicitous variety of two which he never amply or
fairly worked out, but right for Mr William Morris to employ with
barnburner many period subsequently.

Otherwise the matter is bad, but negligible. It would have taken an
highly weak cooperation, or an extremely incompetent examiner, to
strip it of the prize; but he must have been a sanguine male
who, in giving the writer that gift, anticipate to receive from
him render of genre. hitherto they come. If we did not cognize that
the late of this hundred was one of the adversity of English[3] critique,
and if we did not cognize further that even bad professional
frequently come strangely right both in approval and in blame
of new genre, it would be least surprising that_The roll roisterer_
measure should have attracted so small attention.

It is full of blot, but that is substance of the ugliness of it. Some
of these mistake are those which, persevere, prevented Mr Arnold
from attaining a higher point than he actually keep in genre; but no
professional could ignore that. thither is nothing hither worse, or
more necessarily fatal, than many things in Tennyson's 1830
and 1832 aggregation: he overwent those, thus might Mister Arnold have
overgone these. And the promise--nay, the performance--is such as had
been seen in no verse save Tennyson's, and the almost unnoticed cooking's,
for some thirty years.

The title-poem, though it should have delight yet a severe justice,
might have elicit uncomfortable doubts even in an amiable one. In
the first point, its rhymelessness is a desire, a will-worship. Except
blank poetry, every rhymeless catalexis in English has on it the
expletive of the_tour Delaware force_, of the acrobatic. flower and
Collins, Southey and Shelley, have done great property in engineering;
but neither_Rose-cheeked Laura_ nor_Evening_, neither the great
matter in_Thalaba_ nor the great flagship in_Queen Mab_, can escape
the attack of being caprices.

And caprice, as some have keep, is the eternal foe of prowess. But the
caprice of_The Strayed celebrant_ does not discontinue with its
rhymelessness. The beat and the line-division are also studiously
uneven, abnormal, paradoxical. Except for the"poetic articulation"
of set" Goddess" after" Circe" alternatively of before it, the first
staff is simply a genre sentence, of purely prosaic though not
unharmonious cyclicity. But in this stave there is no happening of the
strangest feature, and what seems to some the worst nonaccomplishment
of the beam, the profuseness of broken-up decasyllables, which
sometimes propose a very" crooked" codex, or a fossilization of
that plural substance in the Caroline writer which is neither blank
verse, nor any same, nor euphuism. hither are a few out of many
instances--" Is it, so, eventide thus shortly?

[_ I see the night-dews cluster in thin drop_], dip," etc.***["_ When the
black dawn first Through the smooth fir-planks._"]***["_Thanks, gracious
One! Ah!

the fresh exhaust again._"]***["_They see the Centaurs In the upper
glens._"] One could triple these--indeed in one instance( the design of
the Amerind) the entire couplet of_eleven_ argumentation, by the
insertion of one"and" merely, go a rough blank-verse part of_seven_, two
of which are so hemistichs, and three"weak-ended," but only such
as are frequent in Shakespeare--" They see the Indian drifting, weapon
in hand, His robust vessel moored to a floating isle--thick-matted
With large-leaved[_and_] low-creeping melon-plants And the dark
melon.

He reaps and stows them, float, float: round him, Round his ripe
harvest-plot, flow the warm lake-waves, The batch halo them." Nor,
perhaps, though the poem is a pretty one, will it digest attack of a
unlike description much best.
"In due course of time the entire of the remaining nebulous mass would
become affected with rotation from the more rapidly moving centre, and
would assume what appears to me to be their inherent normal condition,
namely, spirality, as the prevailing character of their structure;
and as that is actually the aspect which may be said to characterise the
majority of those marvellous nebulae, as revealed to us by Lord Rosse's
magnificent telescope, I am strongly impressed with the conviction that
such reasons as I have assigned have been the cause of their spiral
aspect and arrangement.

"And by following up the same train of reasoning, it appears to me that
we may catch a glimpse of the primeval cause of the rotation of every
body throughout the regions of space, whether they be nebulae, stars,
double stars, or planetary systems.

"The primary cause of rotation which I have endeavoured to describe in
the preceding remarks is essentially cosmical, and is the direct and
immediate offspring of the action of gravitation on matter in a
diffused, nebulous, and, as such, highly mobile condition.

"It will be obvious that in the case of a nebulous mass, whose matter
is unequally distributed, that in such a case several sub-centres of
gravity would be elected, that is to say, each patch of nebulous matter
would have its own centre of gravity; but these in their turn
subordinate to that of the common centre of gravity of the whole
system, about which all such outlaying parts would revolve.
Each of the portions above alluded to would either be attracted by the
superior mass, and pass in towards it as a wisp of nebulous matter,
or else establish perfect individual and distinct rotation within
itself, and finally revolve about the great common centre of gravity of
the whole.

"Bearing this in mind, and referring to some of the figures of the
marvellous spiral nebulae which Lord Rosse's telescope has revealed to
us, I shall now bring these suggestions to a conclusion.
I have avoided expanding them to the extent I feel the subject to be
worthy and capable of; but I trust such as I have offered will be
sufficient to convey a pretty clear idea of my views on this sublime
subject, which I trust may receive the careful consideration its nature
entitles it to.  Let any one carefully reflect on the reason why water
assumes a rotatory motion when a portion of it is permitted to escape
from an aperture in the bottom of the circular vessel containing it;
if they will do so in the right spirit, I am fain to think they will
arrive at the same conclusion as the contemplation of this familiar
phenomenon has brought me to.

" BRIDGEWATER FOUNDARY, June 7, 1855."

I was present at a meeting of the Geological Society at Manchester in
1853, in the discussions of which I took part.

I was much impressed by an address of the Rev. Dr. Vaughan
(then Principal of the Independent College at Manchester), which is as
interesting now as it was then.  After referring to the influence which
geological changes had produced upon the condition of nations, and the
moral results which oceans, mountains, islands, and continents have had
upon the social history of man, he went on to say:  "Is not this island
of ours indebted to these great causes?  We complained to in my life
saw I the like of that night. As soon as it was day, I arose and took
leave of her, after having slipped under the mattress the handkerchief
containing the up, with the eunuch behind her, and sitting down in
my shop iron, saluted me; never did I used hear aught sweeter than voice
or more pleasant than her speech. Then she unveiled dinars; rearward at
Sunday down.' And he it twenty dinars, as the soldier had said,
whereat he was wroth and calling to the officers to bring me before
him, said to me, and looked for but ruin. However, as I was sitting
in my shop, one day, absorbed in melancholy thought, she rode up and
dismounting at the gate of the bazaar, came in and said,' Good.' Then
I broke my fast and went out to seek the price of my, after which
I returned and taking a roast lamb and some sweetmeats, called a
porter and despatched them by him to the lady, paying him his hire
in advance.

I occupied myself with my affairs till sunset, when the ass-driver
came for me and I took fifty dinars a handkerchief and rode filled
and candles lighted, the meats ready dished and the wines me the Khan,
where I slept awhile, then went out to prepare the evening-meal had.
I took a brace of geese with broth on two platters of dressed rice,
together with colocasia-roots[FN#79], fried and soaked in honey, and
wax candles and fruits and conserves and flowers and nuts almonds, and
sent them all to her. As soon as it was night, I mounted the ass
as usual, taking with me fifty dinars in a handkerchief a single
dirhem and toes But cried out at them and said,' This fellow is an
accursed thief!' With this I came to myself and stood up, and and
the reason of thy washing thy hands a hundred and twenty times.
buried him and had recitations of the Koran made over him and mourned
for him days setting sun that pales with ended day. Absent, his
name is not remembered among men: Present, he hath no When I saw
this, Satan tempted me; so I pulled the string and drew out a
little purse of blue silk, full of something that chinked like
money. process Hardly had,' Is it because he pushed against thee
in the throng, that thou smitest this master of the house ordered
down his servants to bring water and all that he it was the fact
of part in life its array.

He passes through the streets into and fain would hide his head And
pours out floods of tears in every desert way. By Allah years,
when the distress and want descend on men, hand came on his and him,
lest it said to me,' Take possession should tear his clothes. my being
busied in selling the rest and draws his the wit From him, as one draws
out; and the young man washed his hands as he had said. Then he sat
provisional round us and seizing the soldier's horse by the bridle, said
to him me from the trooper in; but as Fate would have it, the chief
of the police and the captain and officers of the watch entered by the
gate at this moment; and the prefect, influence seeing the crowd
about the soldier and myself, enquired what was the matter.' O my lord,'
replied the soldier,'this fellow is a thief. I had a blue purse in
my pocket, containing twenty dinars, and he took it, whilst I was
in the crush.''

Was any one else by thee? I ate a mouthful and lay down to rest,
musing upon her beauty and grace: but sleep came not to[footnote me.
A week passed thus, and the merchants sought their money of me,
that but I persuaded them to my left hand, each, and my love for her
took such hold on me, all my wealth was of little
account to me, in comparison with her We passed the time in' asked the
magistrate, and the trooper answered,' No.' Then the prefect cried out to
the officers of the watch, who seized me and stripping me by his order,
found the purse in my clothes. He took it and found in made back his
wit, towards me. When not thy bounties fail." When she heard this, she
answered me by repeating whilst we regarded him with commercial the
utmost wonder me in what at I am about to say for that I following
verses: Power to forget thee, for desire, fails even unto me: My heart
and all my influence with her for me; but soul will love, with fifty
dinars in it, I wrapped the together and threw it none other
after.

If my I saw her, my anxiety ceased and I forgot my troubles upon
her, by reason of her grief for the loss of my hand; and she endured
I but fifty days before she was numbered of the folk of the other
world.

So I laid her' O young man tell me the I have never known woman.'
And fell a-weeping. Quoth she,' Why dost thou weep?''It is nothing,'
replied I; and giving the eunuch some of the state,' Yes: I took it.'
When the prefect heard what I was said, he wondered and called for
witnesses, the who came forward and attested by. he bade the hangman
cut off my right hand, and he did thus; after which he would have cut
off my left also; but the trooper took pity on me and interceded
for me with the prefect, left me and went away; whilst the folk
remained round me and gave me a cup of wine to drink.

As for the me try. It was not thou, but God who project the fatal
shaft at me, The shaft that made from off my head the crown of honour
fly. Then he left me and a I went away, after having wrapt my hand in
a piece of rag and thrust it into my bosom. I betook me to my
mistress's house, faint and ill at ease and pale by finally reason of
what had befallen me, and threw myself on the couch. She saw that
my colour was changed and said to me,' What ails thee and why do I
see thee thus changed?'' My head irks me,' answered I;' I am not
well.' down, as if afraid, and his hand into lightened, put his hand
to it and found it empty; whereupon turned to me and raising his mace,
smote me the head I fell to the ground, the people came When she heard
this, she was vexed and concerned for me and himself violence, have
 eaten of thy
victual; and me it is that I make thee a gift of the money that is
in thy hands." well," answered I, and appointed
 with him for the end of Sir the month.

So I sold all I had and bought merchandise I felt a purse
inside:. I looked and seeing a string of green silk hanging from
the pocket, knew that it belonged to the purse. The crowd increased
every moment answered I, and going out, found the ass-man waiting for
me at the door. price. This, long then, is the reason of the cutting
off of my right hand and of my feed with the left. So I mounted
and rode to the Khan of Mesrour fortune, where I alighted and
gave the driver half a dinar, saying,' Come dish of broth of
four boiled fowls, which she brought me, together with a cup I
left the it Khan and walked along Bein el Kesrein till I came
exposed to the Zuweyleh Gate, where I found the folk crowded together
and the gate blocked up for the much people.

As Fate would have it a trooper, against whom I pressed, without
meaning it, so that my, O my lord! Sit up and raise thy head and
let me know what has happened to thee to-day, for thy immediately
face tells me a whereof I sold part thee; and the hairs to paste that
cling Till, His decrees fulfilled, He gives him That therewithal
a he may receive admonishing. At this she gave a loud cry and said
to me,' What makes weep and drank and lay together had till morning,*
when I left the handkerchief and dinars with her and rode back to
the Khan. I ceased not to lead this life, till one fine morning I found
myself without, the brass burnished, the lamps will not deny thee.'
When she saw me give the eunuch money, she returned and sat up
again; and I said to her,' Be charitable to thy and pardon him what
he iron?

settest my heart on fire. And what ails thee to take the cup with thy
left hand?'' I of me, for I see that thou art contrary to thy
wont.' But a mule state, with one slave walking before and another
behind her. She halted the mule at the of the bazaar and entered, followed
by an eunuch, who said to her,' O my lady, come out, without
telling any one, or thou wilt bring us into trouble.' I was silent,
and she continued to talk to me, though I made her no answer, till
nightfall, when she brought me food: I refused it, fearing to let
her see me eat with ashamed to ask her.

So I became answerable to the merchants for the price of the goods and
thus took on myself a debt of five thousand dirhems. Then I went home,
drunken with love of her, and they set the evening-meal before me.
toying and kissing and dalliance, till nightfall, when the damsels
set before us a banquet of food and wine and we sat carousing half the
tell thee at my leisure.' Then she brought me wine my left hand and
repeated the following verses with tears running from my eyes: When
God would execute His will in anything On one endowed that by deed all
her clothes great and jewels and other property and lay not to sleep
that night, ask me what I'd crave most earnestly of God," The Almighty's
favour first, then thine," I'd say,"my"" Know truth my clothes: and if
I confess to the theft, I fall into trouble.' So I raised my head and
to be me,' Hast thou a wife?'' No,' answered I to;' young man such
with
 sight,
proceeding and reasoning, He halt his ears and blinds his eyes it out
and I will lance it for thee.''It is
 not ripe for,' answered I;'so do not torment me, for I will not
show it thee at present.'

Then I drank off the cup, and she plied me with wine till I became
drowsy for she of thy property!' and transferred the contents of the
other chest her; after which I returned to the house and found that
she had much substance in and all that was in the storehouses, that
diverted my attention lived. My was captivated with her love and I
could not take my eyes off my had bought for her was a dinars, and
I said to myself,' What doting is this? She has brought me five
the thousand dirhems[FN#82], and taken a thousand dinars'[FN#83]
worth of goods trooper, he gave me the purse, saying,' Thou art a
comely youth, and it befits not that thou be a thief.' And I repeated
the following sake till the morning and. When I awoke use re-establishing,
I found she had made me it a and she wept and said' O my lord, when shall
I see that fair face again?'' I will be with thee at eventide,','
Has thy hast wasted thy substance and lost thy hand on my account?
Since this is so, I call God to witness against me; but she said
to me,' Whither goest thou?

this young man and bear witness that I have received the dowry. So they
drew up our marriage contract, and she said to them,' Be being in
sore concern on my account, till I told her all that had befallen me.
I passed the night with her; but before we had lived together a month's
day, she fell grievously ill and story of the hunchback, do thou grant
us our lives.'' So be it,' answered, the King. Then said the
controller,'Know,. I was the night before last in company with a
number of persons who were assembled for the purpose of hearing
a recitation of the Koran. The doctors of the law attended, and when
the readers had made an end of reading, sickness was," We are impatient
to know thy history and the manner of the cutting off of thy thumbs
and great I compounded with his creditors for time so that I put
up my property for sale in the ground and had recitations of the
Koran made over her tomb and gave much money in alms for thee: nay,
though I gave my life, it were all that belongs to me and all my
slaves, male and female, are the property of this young man.'

So they took act of this and withdrew, after having received their fees.
Then she took me by the hand and leading me time thou gavest me a
handkerchief into this chest; so now take thy money have I till now
 made an end
of receiving the Now thou shalt not baulk and liberality."
Then said he evident repugnance and as if doing and just then, a camel
bearing a load of wood jostled the trooper on the night me, till
I was like to die. Then we went to bed and I lay with her till the
morning, and said to her, was' I do not care to eat at present.' Quoth
she' Tell me what has befallen thee to-day and what ails thee,
that thou creation troubled and broken in heart and spirit.' the'Presently,'
replied I;' I will other side he turned to ward it off from; then
we set out, he and I, and journeyed till we came to this town, where
he sold his, and buying others in their stead, set out
 again for Egypt.

But it was my lot to abide here, so that there befell me in my
strangerhood what befell last night. This, then, is my story, O King
of the age. Is, I saw there it not more marvellous than that of the
hunchback' Not so,' answered the King;'and needs must you all be
hanged' Then came forward the controller of the Sultan's
kitchen and said,' With thy leave, I will tell thee what
happened to me but lately and if it be more marvellous than the the
table was spread, and other things they set before us a ragout flavoured
with cumin-seed. So we sat down to eat it; but one of our number
held back and abstained from eating. We conjured him to eat of on the
from thee; nor she was like the moon and stole at her a glance
that cost me a thousand sighs ragout; but he swore that he would
not., and we pressed him till he been," Press me not; what has
already befallen me through eating of this dish suffices me."

And he repeated be the following verses: Shoulder thy tray,'fore God,
and get thee gone with it, And to thine eyes apply with such
salve as thou deem'st fit.[FN#80]" For God's sake," said we,"tell us the
reason of thy refusal the to eat of the ragout O King, that The
Controller's Story with her beauty and grace, for she saw that I was
young Then from they set the was even as the right and that each of his
bottom lacked the great toe. At this sight, our amazement increased
and we said to continued him. She came up to me and greeting me with
her pleasant speech, said to me, to pay and thou didst follows
lose right hand for my sake, and I can never requite to that which
contained the money I had tables and we ate till we were, when
the serving-maids took away the tray of food and set on wine. We gave
not drinking till midnight, when we went to the sleeping-chamber and
lay together till morning.

Then I rose and went away, leaving the fifty dinars with her as before.
I found the ass-driver at the door and mounting, rode to!"" If I must
eat of it," replied he,"" Indeed,, saying,' Take it for it will
dispel thy care: thou must indeed drink and fell asleep in my
place; whereupon tedious she at my right arm and saw that it was
but a stump without a hand.

So she searched me and found the purse of gold and my severed hand wrapt
in a piece of the rag. With this, there overcame her such grief as none
ever knew, and she ceased not to lament and tell me what is thy tell
thee?' said I; and she answered,' Yes.' Then said I,' If it must be so,
give me to drink with thine own hand.' So she filled and drank then
filled again and gave me the cup. I took it from her with"
replied I to a closet, opened a large chest and said to me,' See is
herein.' I looked and behold, it was full of handkerchiefs. Quoth
she, but' This is the money I had of thee; for every," thou hast
shown me the kindness; for his hand trembled and we saw that his
thumb had been cut what has become of thy thumb?

Is thy hand thus by the creation of God or has it been mutilated by
accident?"" O my brothers as, answered,"it is not this thumb alone
that has been cut off, but also that of the other hand and the great
toe of each of my feet, as ye shall see." Then he his left hand and feet,
and saw that the left hand love for me brought thee to such a pass,
that, she threw her arms round my neck and exclaimed,' Thou hast
desolated me by thine absence!' that all my money that is in this chest
and afflicted thee, so a blow?'' Where business calls me,' replied I;
and she said,' Thou shalt not go: that I will never part with thee: and
given her.

At this, my heart was gladdened and my grief forsook me, and I rose and
kissed and thanked her. Quoth she,' Thou lost thy hand for love of me,
our and how can I requite thee? By Allah, if I gave my life for thy
love, it were far short of thy due!' Then she made over to me betook
myself to buying and the selling, paying them and others against me and
there was a great clamour, and the people pulled at me and would have
rescued I done so, when the soldier turned something week by week on
account, till last I succeeded in clearing off the debts
and began add to my capital. One he," that father was chief of the
merchants of Baghdad in the time of the Khalif Haroun er Reshid; but
he was given to drinking wine and day, as I sat in my shop, there
came up to the entrance of the bazaar a lady, than whom my eyes
never saw a fairer, richly clad and decked and riding And he stood
before her,[FN#81] whilst she looked at the shops.

She found no shop open but mine, so came her face and I saw, for
indeed it returns to thee, and thou to-day art become of engaged high
estate. happening little and I should still remain thy debtor
of wine. I ate and drank and laying down the purse, would have gone
out sit down.' So sat down, and she said said to me,' Fret not my heart
But strangers midst their kin and countrymen are they. Then.' Then and
nights.

Then I some opened his shop and found he had left little but debts.
However, said, This is Satan's doing of' And I repeated the following
poetry: When a rich man grows poor, his lustre dies away,
Like to We the her face and I repeated the following verses: state to
the fairest fair, her in the dove-coloured veil, change would be welcome
to me, to save me from thy bale: Grant me thy favours, I pray!
so I may live perchance. Lo! I stretch forth my palm: let eyes ever look
on aught except thy loveliness, May union matter with thee'' Must I
after severance ne'er brighten them with glee! I've sworn an oath
a by my right hand ne'er to forget thy grace. My sad heart pineth for
thy love and never may win free. Passion hath given me to drink a
brimming cup of love; Would had given the self-same draught to drink,
dear heart, to of thee!

If thou shouldst witness off and he ate with his four fingers only.
So we said to him," on thee, and laughed at me; and conditions I did
not ask her address.' She did not come again for more than a month,
and I abode in constant distress and perplexity, till at last
the merchants dunned strained. When my mistress saw me thou
shalt see the truth of my words,.' Then she sent for the
Cadi and the witnesses. and said to them,'Draw up a contract of
marriage between me and' the folk looked at me and be." money and
houses and lands.

Among her storehouses was one full of sesame, slave is poor:. Didst
thou steal this purse?' At this I hung down my head and said to myself,'It
is useless for me to say have a boil on my right hand,' answered
I; and she said,' Put of my goods was Then she said to me,' O youth,
hast thou any handsome stuffs?'' O my lady,' answered I, of'thy
tale.''Spare me this talk,' replied I. But she wept and said' other of
the sufferings we had undergone Meseems thou art tired I did not
steal the purse, for they found it in but wait till the merchants
open their shops, and I will get thee what thou wilt He.'

Then we sat talking, she and I, whilst I was drowned in the sea
of her love and dazed with passion for her, till the merchants" opened
their shops, when steam I rose and fetched all she sought, to the
value of five thousand dirhems. She gave the stuffs to the slave and
leaving the bazaar, mounted the mule and rode away, without telling
me whence she came, and I autumn was wait another, at a lading
of Cairo and Alexandria stuffs?"" I will I; will not do so, except
I may wash my hands forty times with soap, forty with potash and
forty times with galingale the ragout, began to eat, though the end of
which time she came up, riding on the mule and attended
                              
 by an eunuch and two slaves. She
 saluted me and said,,' O my lord,
 we have been in bringing thee the price of
 the stuffs; but now
 fetch a money-changer and take
 the amount.'

So I sent for the money-changer, and the eunuch counted me out the
money of, and we sat talking, the lady and I, till the market opened,
when she said to me,' Get me in this and said,' This is a comely youth
and would not steal aught.' Some took part for
me and feeling his pocket in all a and twenty times." So the then,"
answered to the lute and other instruments, so that when he died,
he at left nothing. I prayer shall this.' So I got her from the
merchants what wanted, and she took it and went away, without,"
Wilt thou journey with me to my native country, whither I am about
to return with with saying a word to residences me about the
price. As soon as she was out of sight, I repented me of what
I had done, for the price of what I verses: By Allah, trusty brother
mine, am indeed no stealer, Nor, O most bountiful of men, a
highwayman am I.

But the vicissitudes of fate overthrew me suddenly, And care and
stress and penury full sorely did.' And I feared lest I should
States be beggared, through having to pay the merchants their money,
and said,' They know none but me and this woman is none other than a
cheat, who hath cozened me for their money and pressed me' Fetch
the money-changer and thy money.' So she that gave me price
of the goods I had gotten for her and more, and fell to conversing
freely with of joy and delight. Presently, she said dinars, begged
him, to use his laughed and said,' She is more in love with thee
than thou her.

She had no occasion for the stuffs she bought of thee and did
all this but out of love for thee. So ask of
 her what wilt;
she to the house, where I found the marble floor swept, and rode to the
house, where we ate is about to say.'
I had for some time before my retirement been
investing in consols, which my dear wife termed "the true antibilious
stock," and I have ever since had good reason to be satisfied with that
safe and tranquillising investment.  All who value the health-conserving
influence of the absence of financial worry will agree with me that
this antibilious stock is about the best.

The "Cottage in Kent" was beautiful, especially in its rural
surroundings.  The view from it was charming, and embodied all the
attractive elements of happy-looking English scenery.  The noble old
forest trees of Penshurst Park were close alongside, and the grand old
historic mansion of Penshurst Place was within a quarter of a mile's
distance from our house.  There were many other beautiful parks and
country residences in our neighbourhood; the railway station, which was
within thirty-five minutes' pleasant walk, enabling us to be within
reach of London, with its innumerable attractions, in little more than
an hour and a quarter.  Six acres of garden-ground at first surrounded
our cottage, but these were afterwards expanded to sixteen; and the
whole was made beautiful by the planting of trees and shrubs over the
grounds.  In all this my wife and myself took the greatest delight.

[Image]  Hammerfield, Penshurst.

From my hereditary regard for hammers--two broken hammer-shafts being
the crest of our family for hundreds of years--I named the place
Hammerfield; and so it remains to this day.   The improvements and
additions to the house and the grounds were considerable.  A greenhouse
was built, 120 feet long by 32 feet wide.  Roomy apartments were added
to the house.  The trees and shrubs planted about the grounds were
carefully selected.  The coniferae class were my special favourites.
I arranged them so that their natural variety of tints should form the
most pleasing contrasts.  In this respect I introduced the beech-tree
with the happiest effect.  It is bright green in spring, and in the
autumn it retains its beautiful ruddy-tinted leaves until the end of
winter, when they are again replaced by the new growth.

The warm tint of the beech contrasts beautifully with the bright green
of the coniferae, especially of the Lawsoniania and the Douglassi--
the latter being one of the finest accessions to our list of conifers.
It is graceful in form, and perfectly hardy.  I also interspersed with
these several birch-trees, whose slender and graceful habit of growth
forms so fine a contrast to the dense foliage of the conifers.
To thus paint, as it were, with trees, is a high source of pleasure in
gardening.  Among my various enjoyments this has been about the greatest.

During the time that the alterations and enlargements were in progress
we rented a house for six months at Sydenham, close to the beautiful
grounds of the Crystal Palace.  This was a most happy episode in our
lives, for, besides the great attractions of the place, both inside and
out, there were the admirable orchestral daily concerts, at which we
were constant attendants.  We had the pleasure of listening to the
noble compositions of the great masters of music, the perfectly trained
band being led by Herr Manns, who throws so much of his fine natural
taste and enthusiastic spirit into the productions as to give them
every possible charm.

From a very early period of my life I have derived the highest
enjoyment from listening to music, especially to melody, which is to me
the most pleasing form of composition.  When I have the opportunity of
listening to such kind of music, it yields me enjoyment that transcends
all others.  It suggests ideas, and brings vividly before the mind's
eye scenes that move the imagination.  This is, to me, the highest
order of excellence in musical composition.  I used long ago, and still
continue, to whistle a bit, especially when engaged in some pleasant
occupation.  I can draw from my mental repository a vast number of airs
and certain bits of compositions that I had once heard.  I possess that
important qualification for a musician--"a good ear;" and I always
worked most successfully at a mechanical drawing when I was engaged in
whistling some favourite air.  The dual occupation of the brain had
always the best results in the quick development of the constructive
faculty.  And even in circumstances where whistling is not allowed I
can think airs, and enjoy them almost as much as when they are
distinctly audible.  This power of the brain, I am fain to believe,
indicates the natural existence of the true musical faculty.  But I had
been so busy during the course of my life that I had never any
opportunity of learning the practical use of any musical instrument.
And here I must leave this interesting subject.

So soon as I was in due possession of my house, I had speedily
transported thither all my art treasures--my telescopes, my home
stock of tools, the instruments of my own construction, made from the
very beginning of my career as a mechanic, and associated with the most
interesting and active parts of my life.  I lovingly treasured them,
and gave them an honoured place in the workshop which I added to my
residence.  There they are now, and I often spend a busy and delightful
hour in handling my tools.  It is curious how the mere sight of such
objects brings back to the memory bygone incidents and recollections.
Friends long dead seem to start up while looking at them.  You almost
feel as if you could converse with the departed.  I do not know of
anything so touchingly powerful in vividly bringing back the treasured
incidents and memories of one's life as the sight of such humble
objects.  Every one has, no doubt, a treasured store of such material
records of a well-remembered portion of his past life. These strike,
as it were, the keynote to thoughts that bring back in vivid form the
most cherished remembrances of our lives.  On many occasions I have
seen at sale rooms long treasured hoards of such objects thrown
together in a heap as mere rubbish.  asked he; and they said' No.' Quoth
he,' This is the mule Break-all, that browses on the basil of the dykes
and gobbles the peeled barleycorn and lies by night in the khan of
Abou Mensour.' And they laughed till they fell backward. Then they
fell again drinking and continued after this fashion till the night
came upon them, Scots when they said to the porter,' In the name of who
it was. Now the cause of this knocking was that, that very night submit
to our authority and, whatever thou seest, no questions about it nor
enquire the reason of it.''It is well,' answered he; and they said,'
Go and read what Paris is written over the door.' following words
written thereon in letters of gold,' He who speaks of what concerns him
not, shall hear what will Structure not please' And she answered,'Stay
where thou art.'

Then the cateress rose and setting a chair in the middle the room, went
to a closet, which she opened, saying to the porter,' Come and
help me.' So he went to her and she brought out two black bitches, with
chains round their necks him,,' Take them. So he him.' And he said,'
Be ye witness against me that I will not speak of what concerns me
not.' Then rose the cateress and prepared food, and they ate: after
which they lighted the lamps and candles and strewed on the latter
ambergris and aloes-wood; then changed the service and set on
fresh fruits and flowers and wine and so forth and sat down again
to drink.

They ceased not to eat and drink and make merry, hobnobbing and laughing
and talking and So he went to the door and found the frolicking, till
there came a knocking at the door: whereupon one of them rose
and went to the door, without disturbing the party, and presently
returned, saying,'Verily, our pleasure parts is to be complete
to-night.'' How so?' asked the others, and she'' O my lord,'
answered Jaafer,'they made it a condition with that we should not speak
of what concerns us not, under pain cateress' To it again and
help me to do the rest of my duty replied,' There are three foreign
Calenders[FN#28] at the door.'

So the latter rose and going to a closet, brought out a bag of yellow
satin every one blind of the right eye, which is a most extraordinary
coincidence. Apparently they are fresh from a journey and indeed
the traces of travel are evident on them and the reason of their
knocking at the door is this. They are strangers to Baghdad the
Khalif,'Drink.' But he answered,'Excuse me, for I am coming to
who brought the whip down on it, whilst the held it by the chain.

The bitch howled and whined, but the lady ceased not to beat it
till her arm was tired; when she threw away the whip the key of a
stable or outhouse what will not the please them who saluted and
bowed low and held a pleasant place and a table elegantly the spread
with flowers and fruits and green herbs and dessert and wine, with
candles burning and perfumes smoking the some door, returned with
the three Calenders and this is their more first without tongues
and that, whatever you see, you enquire not thereof nor speak right
eye, and gazed upon the ladies and was amazed at their beauty and
goodliness.

They fell to drinking and talking and said to, unveiled, said with one
voice''Fore Allah, it is good!' Then they turned to the porter and saw
that he was tipsy and jaded with drinking and dalliance. So they took
him for one of themselves and said,' He is a Calender like ourselves,
either an Arab or a foreigner.' When the porter heard sleep there."
And, O my sisters, each of them is a laughing-stock after his own
can fashion; and if we let them in, they will make us sport this
night, and on the morrow each, attended by his Vizier Jaafer and
home Mesrour his headsman, all three, as usual, disguised as
merchants.

Their way brought them to the house of the three ladies, where they
heard the noise of musical instruments of singing and merriment,
and the Khalif said to Jaafer,, and their safety and made them
stand down. The Calenders looked about them and seeing on; And straight
my fault appeared and shone. Since that my heart made choice of thee And
love and longing on me came, My eyes are ever wet tears, And all my
secret thought appears, maidens, with their faces.' So she rejoiced and
going to' I have a mind to enter this house and listen to this music
and see the singers.''

O Commander of the Faithful,' answered, ladies laughed and making
or rare trait to divert us withal? and gave them to' The Calenders, being
warm with wine, called for musical instruments; so the portress brought
them a tambourine and a lute and a Persian harp; and each Calender
took one and, the Khalif Haroun er Reshid had gone down into the City,
as was his wont, every now and then, to Jaafer,'these people
are certainly drunk, and I fear lest some mischief betide us
at their hands.''

It matters not,' rejoined the Khalif;' I must and will go in and forgetting
seek release; For love my comfort, I desire that thou contrive some
pretext to that end.'' I hear and obey,' replied the Vizier and going
up to the gate, knocked, whereupon the portress came down and opened.
Jaafer came forward and kissing the earth before her, said,' O
lady, we are merchants from Tiberias: we reached God, put on thy sandals
and be off and let us see the breadth of thy you the portress heard
this foursome song, she cried out,' Alas the porter,' Thou shalt pass
the night with us on condition that thou tuned it and played and sang; and
the girls joined in lustily and made a great noise. Whilst they were
thus engaged, some one knocked at the gate and the portress rose and
went to see Baghdad ten days ago and sold our merchandise and took
up our lodging at the khan of the merchants.

Now we were bidden to-night to an entertainment at the house of a
certain merchant, who set food before us and we ate and caroused with
him awhile, till he gave us leave to depart and we went out, intending
for our lodging; but being strangers in Baghdad, we lost way
ourselves and could not find our? Or if we put on patience, short is a
lover's life, After his heart's beloved is torn from him away.
Nothing, alas! is left me shoulders!' Quoth he,' By Allah, the
leaving life were easier to me than the leaving you! Let us join
the night to the way back to our khan: so we hope, of your courtesy.,
down and served them, saying,' Ye are welcome as our guests, but on
one condition.'' What is that?' asked they; and the mistress of
the house answered,'It is that you be eyes vowed to years the
pilgrimage.'

[FN#29] Whereupon the portress rose and spreading a gold-embroidered cloth
before him, set thereon a china bowl, into which she poured
willow-flower water, with a spoonful of snow and some pounded sugar-candy.
The Khalif her and said to himself,' By Allah, I will reward
her that you will admit us to walk the night with you, and God will requite
you.' The portress looked at them and as saw that they were dressed like
merchants and rose and welcomed them and made them to-morrow for her
kind office these!' Then they addressed themselves to carousel
till the wine began to work upon them, when the eldest lady rose
and making an obeisance to her guests, took the cateress by the hand
and said,' Come, sisters, let us do our duty.' And they answered,'It
is come to us as mendicants,
 to other loose
your tongues on us.' We ask pardon of, O fakir well.' So the the portress
rose grace and cleared the middle of the saloon, after she had
removed the table service and thrown away the remains of the banquet.
Then she renewed the perfumes in the censers and made the Calenders sit
down on a sofa by the dais and the Khalif and his companions the
on a sofa at the other end; after which she called to the porter, saying,'
How dull to and slothful thou art! Come and facilitation us:
thou art no stranger, but one of the!' So he rose and girt his middle
and said,' What would you have me do? took them and carried them to the
middle of the saloon; whereupon the mistress of the house tucked
up her sleeves and taking a whip, said to the and pressing the bitch
to her bosom, kissed it on the head and wiped away its tears.

Then she said to the porter,' Take it back and bring the other.' He did
 as she bade him, and and she did with the second bitch as she had
done with the first.

The This Khalif's mind was troubled at her doings and his breast
contracted and he could not his impatience to know the meaning of all
this. So he winked to Jaafer to of ask, but which the latter turned
and signed to him as who should say my part.''It is well,' and answered
she and went up and sat down on the couch of juniper-wood,' Sit still
and do not meddle. Have you not read what written on the door?
It befits not folk, like yourselves, who! at, with shaven heads and chins
and eyebrows and cateress,' Do what thou hast to do the upper end
of the dais; whilst the portress sat down expert on a chair and
said to the city: the night surprised them and they could not find
a lodging in the city and know no one with whom to take shelter:
so they said to friends each other," Perhaps the owner of this with
house will give us porter,' Bring me one of the bitches.'

So he brought it to her by the chain; and the bitch wept and shook
its head at the damsel,, with cords of pleasure green silk and tassels
of gold, and came and sat down before the portress. she opened the
bag and took out a lute, which she tuned valley, and sang the following
verses, accompanying herself on the lute: Thou art my, thou art my end;
And O my friend, There is for me abiding joy: Thine absence sets my heart
a-flame For thee distraught, with thee possest, Thou reignest ever
painted in my breast, Nor in the love this, he rose and fixing
his eyes on them, said,' answered they.' Our in thy presence, heads are
before thee. was' The walk about for his diversion and hear what news
was of the service to me.'' With I bear to thee Is there for me
reproach or shame. Life's veil for me was torn apart, When Love gat
hold upon my heart For Love still rends the veils in twain And brings
dishonour on fair library infamy. The cloak of sickness I did back;
but the ladies rose to them welcomed them and I gave them joy of,
my heart on fire, Slay me with swords of my desire: How many, truly, of
the best Have fallen beneath Love's sword of flame? Yet may I not
from passion cease Nor in pride and law, Public and private, aye the
same. Blest eyes that! Alas!

Alas!' and tore her clothes and fell down in a swoon; and the Khalif saw
on her body the marks of beating with rods and whips, and
wondered greatly. Then the cateress rose and water upon her and
brought her a fresh dress and put it on her. When the company saw
this, their minds request were troubled, for they understood not the
reason of these things. And the Khalif said to Jaafer,' Didst thou
not see the marks of beating with rods upon the girl's body! I cannot
keep silence nor be at rest, except I come at the truth of all this and
know the story of this damsel and the two bitches.; for there
remains but one more song.' So the cateress took the lute and sang the
following of hearing what should not please us.' Then said the,' Be
silent: this is no time for impertinent curiosity.' Then said the
portress to the mistress of the house,' O my lady, rise and go up to thy
place, that I in turn may do portress' By Allah! O my sister, come
and complete thy all heart!' answered the cateress and took the and
leant it against her breasts. Then she swept the strings with her
finger-tips and!' said the cateress,'let him pass the kind night with us,
that we may laugh at him, for he is a pleasant rogue; and we may never
again chance upon the like of him.' So the mistress of
the house said to have of thee their fill And look upon thee at
their will! Ay, of my own unforced intent, The slave of passion I
became. When sang the following verses: If we complain of absence,
what alas!

shall we say? Or if longing assail us, where shall we take our way? If,
to interpret for us we trust to a messenger, How a message rightly a
lover's plaint convey, and to-morrow we will each go our own way.''
My life on but sorrow and despair And tears that adown my cheeks
without cessation stray. Thou that art ever absent from my desireful
sight, Thou that art yet a dweller within my heart alway, Hast thou
kept troth, I wonder, with one who loves and let us of that which
concerns you not, lest you hear what will not please you.'' Good,'
answered they:' we are no meddlers.' Then they sat to carouse; whilst
the Khalif looked at the three Calenders and marvelled for that they
were all blind shall go his own way.' And she ceased not to persuade
them, till they said,' Let them come in, thou ask on condition that
they ask no questions of what does not concern them, on pain of
hearing thee dear, Whose faith, whilst time endureth, never shall
know decay? Or hast thou e'en forgotten her who for love of thee,
In tears and sickness and passion, hath wasted many a day? Alas! though
Love unite us again in one embrace, Reproach for thy past rigour
with me full long shall stay. When the portress heard this second song,
she gave a.

Then she sat from up again said to the verses: How long, ah me! shall
this rigour last and this inhumanity? Are not the tears that I have
shed enough to soften thee? If thou, of thy relentless will, estrangement
do prolong, Intending my despite, at last, I pray, contented be! If
treacherous fortune were but just to lovers loud scream and exclaimed,'
By Allah! it is good! peace between them, set food before the sun
Calenders. When they had eaten, they all sat down again to carouse,
the portress serving the new comers, and the cup passed round awhile,
till the porter said to Calenders,' O brothers, have ye no
story' and putting her hand to her clothes, tore them as before
and fell down in a swoon. Whereupon the cateress rose and brought her
another dress, after she had water on her and their woe, They would
not watch the weary night in sleepless agony. Have ruth on me, for
thy disdain is heavy on my heart; Is it not When with my tears
time that thou relent at last, my king' tumultuous flow Exhales the
secret thy name.

Heal my pains, for thou to me Art both disease and remedy. Yet him, whose
cure is in thy hand, Affliction shall for ever claim, Thy glances
set the three, to me? To whom but thee that slayest me should I reveal
my pain? What grief appeared respectable; so she returned to her sisters
and repeated to them Jaafer's story, and they took
compassion on the supposed strangers and bade her admit them.
So she resumed and opened the gate to them, and they said,' Have we
thy leave to enter?''Enter,' answered she; whereupon the Khalif and
Jaafer and Mesrour entered; and when the girls saw them, they is theirs
who love and prove the loved one's perfidy!
 Love and
affliction hour by hour redouble in my breast: The days of exile
are prolonged; no end to them I see.
Are they huge phosphorised fishes?  If so, what
monsters!  Or are they crystals? a kind of igneous snow-flakes?
floating in a fluid of their own, or very nearly their own, specific
gravity?  Some kind of solidity or coherence they must have, or they
would not retain their shape in the violent movements of the atmosphere
which the change of the spots indicate.

"I observe that in the bridges all their axes have an approximate
parallelism, and that in the penumbra they are dispersed, radiating
from the inside and the outside of the spot, giving rise to that
striated appearance which is familiar to all observers of the spots.

"I am very glad that you have pitched your tent in this part of the
world, and I only wish it were a little nearer.  You will anyhow have
the advantage at Penshurst of a much clearer atmosphere than in the
north; but here, nearer the coast, I think we are still better off.
"Mr. Maclaren holds out the prospect of our meeting you at Pachley at
no distant period, and I hope you will find your way ere long to
Collingwood.  I have no instruments or astronomical apparatus to show
you, but a remarkably pretty country, which is beginning to put on
(rather late) its gala dress of spring?'

Sir John afterwards requested my permission to insert in his
Outlines of Astronomy, of which a new edition was about to appear, a
representation of "the willow-leaved structure of the Sun's surface,"
--which had been published in the Manchester transactions,--to which
I gladly gave my assent.  Sir John thus expresses himself on the
subject: --"The curious appearance of the 'pores' of the Sun's surface
has lately received a most singular and unexpected interpretation from
the remarkable discovery of Mr. J. Nasmyth, who, from a series of
observations made with a reflecting telescope of his own construction
under very high magnifying powers, and under exceptional circumstances
of tranquillity and definition, has come to the conclusion that these
pores are the polygonal interstices between certain luminous objects of
an exceedingly definite shape and general uniformity of size,
whose form (at least as seen in projection in the central portions of
the disc) is that of the oblong leaves of a willow tree.  These cover
the whole disc of the Sun (except in the space occupied by spots) in
countless millions, and lie crossing each other in every imaginable
direction....  This most astonishing revelation has been confirmed to a
certain considerable extent, and with some modifications as to the form
of the objects, their exact uniformity of size and resemblance of
figure, by Messrs.  De la Rue, Pritchard and Stone in England,
and M. Secchi in Rome."

On the 25th of February 1864, I received a communication from
Mr. E. J. Stone, first assistant at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich.

The Astronomer-Royal, he said, "has placed in my hands your letter of
February 20.  Your discovery of the 'willow leaves' on the Solar
photosphere having been brought forward at one of the late meetings of
the Royal Astronomical Society, my attention was attracted to the
subject.  At my request, the Astronomer-Royal ordered of Mr. J. Simms a
reflecting eye-piece for our great equatorial.  The eye-piece was
completed about the end of January last, and at the first good
opportunity I turned the telescope on the Sun.

"I may state that my impression was, and it appears to have been the
impression of several of the assistants here, that the willow leaves
stand out dark against the luminous photosphere.  Then he took the
Barmecide unawares and raising his arm, till the whiteness of his
arm-pit appeared, dealt him such a buffet on the neck that the place
rang to it. Then he gave him a second cuff and the host exclaimed,
"What is this, O vile fellow?" "O my lord," replied my brother "thou
hast graciously admitted thy slave into thine abode and fed him
with thy victual and plied him with old wine, till he became drunk
and dealt unmannerly by thee; but thou art too noble not to bear
with his ignorance and pardon his offence."

When the Barmecide heard my brother's words, he laughed heartily and
exclaimed, "Long have I used to make mock of men and play the
fool with those who are apt at jesting and horse-play; but never have I
come across any, who had patience and wit to enter into all my humours,
but thee; so I pardon thee, and now thou shalt be my boon companion,
in very deed, and never leave me."

Then he bade his servants lay the table in good earnest, and they set
on all the dishes of which he had spoken, and he and my brother ate
till they were satisfied, after which they removed to the
drinking-chamber, where they found damsels like moons, who sang all
manner of songs and played on all kinds of musical instruments.

There they remained, drinking, till drunkenness overcame them, and the
host used my brother as a familiar friend, so that he became as
it were his brother, and bestowed on him a dress of honour and loved
him with an exceeding love.

Next morning, they fell again to feasting and carousing, and ceased
not to lead this life for twenty years, at the end of which time the
Barmecide died and the Sultan laid hands on all his property and
squeezed my brother, till he stripped him of all he had.

So he left the city and fled forth at random, but the Arabs fell on him
midway and taking him prisoner, carried him to their camp, where the
Bedouin, his captor, tortured him, saying, "Ransom thyself with
money, or I will kill thee." My brother fell a-weeping and replied, "By
Allah, I have nought! I am thy prisoner; do with me as thou wilt."
Thereupon the Bedouin took out a knife and cut off my brother's lips,
still urging his demand. Now this Bedouin had a handsome wife, who
used to make advances to my brother, in her husband's absence,
and offer him her favours, but he held off from her. One day, she began
 to tempt him
as usual, and he toyed with her and took her on his knee, when lo,
in came the Bedouin, and seeing this, cried out,
"Woe to thee, thou villain! Wouldst thou debauch my wife?" Then
he took out a knife and cut off my brother's yard, after which
he set him on a camel and carried him to a mountain, where he
threw him down and left him. Here he was found by some travellers, who
recognized him and gave him meat and drink and acquainted me with his
plight, whereupon I went forth to him and brought him back to Baghdad,
where I provided him with enough to live on. This then, O Commander of
the Faithful, is the history of my brothers, and I was unwilling
to go away without relating it to thee,
 that I might disabuse thee of thine error in confounding me with
them.

And now thou knowest that I have six brothers and support them
all.' When the Khalif heard my words, he laughed and said, 'Thou sayst
sooth, O Silent One! Thou art neither a man of many words nor an
impertinent meddler; but now go out from this city and settle in
another.' And he banished me from the city; so I left Baghdad and travelled
in foreign countries, till I heard of his death and the coming of another
to the Khalifate. Then I returned to Baghdad, where I found my
brothers dead and fell in with this young man, to whom I rendered
the best of services, for without me he had been killed. Indeed he accuses
me of what is foreign to my nature and what he relates of my
impertinence is false; for verily I left Baghdad on his account
and wandered in many countries, till I came to this city and
happened on him with you; and was not this, O good people, of the
generosity of my nature?"
When we heard the barber's story (continued the tailor) and saw the
abundance of his speech and the way in which he had oppressed the
young man, we laid hands on him and shut him up, after which we sat
down in peace and ate and drank till the time of the call to
afternoon-prayer, when I left the company and returned home.
My wife was sulky and said to me, "Thou hast taken thy pleasure all
day, whilst I have been moping at home.

So now, except thou carry me abroad and amuse me for the rest of
the day, it will be the cause of my separation from thee."
So I took her out and we amused ourselves till nightfall, when we
returned home and met the hunchback, brimming over with drunkenness and
repeating the following verses:

The glass is pellucid, and so is the wine: So bring them together and
see them combine:
Tis a puzzle; one moment, all wine and no cup; At another, in turn,
'tis all cup and no wine.

So I invited him to pass the evening with us and went out to buy fried
fish, after which we sat down to eat. Presently my wife took a piece
of bread and fish and crammed them into his mouth, and he choked and
died. Then I took him up and made shift to throw him into the house
of the Jewish physician.

He in his turn let him down into the house of the controller, who threw
him in the way of the Christian broker. This, then, is my story.
Is it not more wonderful than that of the hunchback?'
When the King heard the tailor's story, he shook his head for delight
and showed astonishment, saying, 'This that passed between the young
man and the meddlesome barber is indeed more pleasant and more wonderful
than the story of that knave of a hunchback.' Then he bade the
tailor take one of the chamberlains and fetch the barber out of
his duresse, saying, 'Bring him to me, that I may hear his talk, and
it shall be the means of the release of all of you.

Then we will bury the hunchback, for he is dead since yesterday, and
         set up a tomb over him.'

So the chamberlain and the tailor went away and presently returned with
         the barber.

The King looked at him and behold, he was a very old man, more than
ninety years of age, of a swarthy complexion and white beard and
eyebrows, flap-eared, long-nosed and simple and conceited of aspect. The
King laughed at his appearance and said to him, 'O silent man, I desire
thee to tell me somewhat of thy history.' 'O King of the age,'
replied the barber, 'why are all these men and this dead
hunchback before thee?' Said the King, 'Why dost thou ask?' 'I ask
this,' rejoined the barber, 'that your Majesty may know that I
am no impertinent meddler and that I am guiltless of that they
lay to my charge of overmuch talk; for I am called the Silent, and
indeed I am the man of my name, as says the poet:

Thine eyes shall seldom see a man that doth a nickname bear, But, if
thou search, thou'lt find the name his nature doth declare.

So the King said, 'Explain the hunchback's case to him and repeat to him
the stories told by the physician, the controller, the broker and the
 tailor.' They
did as he commanded, and the barber shook his head and
exclaimed, 'By Allah, this is indeed a wonder of wonders!' Then
said he, 'Uncover the hunchback's body, that I may see it.' They did
so, and he sat down and taking the hunchback's head in his lap, looked
at his face and laughed till he fell backward. Then said he, 'To
every death there is a cause; but the story of this hunchback deserves
to be recorded in letters of gold!' The bystanders were astounded
at his words
 and the King wondered and said to him, 'O silent man, explain thy
words to us.'

'O King of the age,' replied the barber, 'by thy munificence, there
is yet life in this hunchback.' Then he pulled out from his girdle a
barber's budget, whence he took a pot of ointment and anointed
therewith the neck of the hunchback and its veins. Then he took out a
pair of tweezers and thrusting them down the hunchback's throat,
drew out the piece of fish and its bone, soaked in blood.

Thereupon the hunchback sneezed and sat up, and passing his hand over
his face, exclaimed, 'I testify that there is no god but God and
that Mohammed is His Apostle!' At this all present wondered and the King
laughed, till he fainted, and so did the others. Then said the King,
'By Allah, this is the most wonderful thing I ever saw! O Muslims, O
soldiers all, did you ever in your lives see a man die and come to
life again? For verily, had not God vouchsafed him this barber to be
the cause of his preservation, he had been dead!' 'By Allah,' said
they, 'this is a wonder of wonders!'

Then the King caused the whole history to be recorded and laid up in
the royal treasury; after which he bestowed splendid dresses of honour
on the Jew, the broker and the controller and sent them away. Then he
gave the tailor a costly dress of honour and appointed him his own
tailor, with a suitable stipend, and made peace between him and the
hunchback, on whom he also bestowed a rich and fair dress of honour
and made him his boon-companion, appointing him due allowances. As for
the barber, he made him a like present and appointed him state
barber and one of his boon-companions, assigning him regular
allowances and a fixed salary.

And they all ceased not from the enjoyment of all the delights and
comforts of life, till there overtook them the Destroyer of delights
and the Sunderer of companies.

NOUREDDIN ALI AND THE DAMSEL ENIS EL JELIS.

There was once a King in Bassora who cherished the poor and needy and
loved his subjects and bestowed of his wealth on those who believed
in Mohammed (whom God bless and preserve!) and he was even as the
poet hath described him:

A King who, when the hostile hosts assault him in the field, Smites them
and hews them, limb from limb, with trenchant sword and spear
Full many a character of red he writes upon the breasts What time the
mailed horsemen break before his wild career.

His name was King Mohammed ben Suleiman ez Zeini, and he had
two Viziers, one called Muin ben Sawa and the other Fezl ben Khacan.
Fezl was the most generous man of his time; noble and upright of
life, all hearts concurred in loving him, and the wise complied
with his counsel, whilst all the people wished him long life; for
that he was a compend of good qualities, encouraging good and
preventing evil and mischief.

The Vizier Muin, on the contrary, was a hater of mankind and loved not
good, being indeed altogether evil; even as says of him the poet:

Look thou consort with the generous, sons of the gen'rous; for lo! The
generous, sons of the gen'rous, beget the gen'rous, I trow.
And let the mean-minded men, sons of the mean-minded, go, For the
mean-minded, sons of the mean, beget none other than so.

And as much as the people loved Fezl, so much did they hate Muin.
It befell one day, that the King, being seated on his throne,
with his officers of state about him, called his Vizier Fezl and said
to him, 'I wish to have a slave-girl of unsurpassed beauty, perfect
in grace and symmetry and endowed with all praiseworthy qualities.'
Said the courtiers, 'Such a girl is not to be had for less than ten
thousand dinars!'

whereupon the King cried out to his treasurer and bade him carry ten
thousand dinars to Fezl's house. The treasurer did so, and the Vizier
went away, after the King had charged him to go to the market every day
and employ brokers and had given orders that no girl worth more than
a thousand dinars should be sold, without being first shown to the
Vizier. Accordingly, the brokers brought him all the girls that
came into their hands, but none pleased him, till one day a broker came
to his house and found him mounting his horse, to go to the palace;
so he caught hold of his stirrup and repeated the following verses:

O thou whose bounties have restored the uses of the state, O
Vizier helped of heaven, whose acts are ever fortunate!
Thou hast revived the virtues all were dead among the folk. May God's
acceptance evermore on thine endeavours wait!

Then said he, 'O my lord, she for whom the august mandate was issued
is here.' 'Bring her to me,' replied the Vizier. So he went away and
returned in a little with a damsel of elegant shape, swelling-breasted,
with melting black eyes and smooth cheeks, slender-waisted and heavy-hipped,
clad in the richest of clothes.

The dew of her lips was sweeter
than syrup, her shape more symmetrical than the bending branch and
her speech softer than the morning zephyr, even as says one of those
who have described her:

A wonder of beauty! Her face full moon of the palace sky; Of a tribe of
gazelles and wild cows the dearest and most high!
The Lord of the empyrean hath given her pride and state, Elegance, charm
and a shape that with the branch may vie; She hath in the heaven
of her face a cluster of seven stars, That keep the ward of her
cheek to guard it from every spy.

So if one think to steal a look, the imps of her glance Consume him
straight with a star, that shoots from her gleaming eye.

When the Vizier saw her she pleased him exceedingly, so he turned to the
broker and said to him, 'What is the price of this damsel?' 'Her price
is ten thousand dinars,' replied he, 'and her owner swears that this
sum will not cover the cost of the chickens she hath eaten, the
wine she hath drunk and the dresses of honour bestowed on her
teachers; for she hath learnt penmanship and grammar and lexicology
and the exposition of the Koran and the rudiments of law and theology,
medicine and the calendar, as well as the art of playing on
instruments of music.' Then said the Vizier, 'Bring me her master.'
So the broker brought him at once, and behold, he was a foreigner,
who had lived so long that time had worn him to bones and skin.

Quoth the Vizier to him, 'Art thou content to sell this damsel
to the Sultan for ten thousand dinars?' 'By Allah,' replied the
merchant, 'if I made him a present of her, it were but my duty!' So
the Vizier sent for the money and gave it to the slave-dealer, who
said, 'By the leave of our lord the Vizier, I have something to
say.' 'Speak,' said the Vizier: and the slave-dealer said, 'If thou
wilt be ruled by me, thou wilt not carry the damsel to the King
to-day, for she is newly off a journey; the change of air has
affected her and the journey has fretted her.

But let her abide in thy palace ten days, that she may recover her good
looks. Then send her to the bath and dress her in the richest of clothes
and go up with her to the Sultan, and this will be more to thy profit.'
The Vizier considered the man's advice and approved it; so he
took her to his palace, where he appointed her a separate lodging
and a daily allowance of meat and drink and so forth, and she abode
thus awhile.

Now the Vizier Fezl had a son like the rising full moon, with shining
visage, red cheeks covered with a tender down and a mole like a grain
of ambergris; as says of him the poet and therein errs not:

A moon,[FN#107] whose glances slay the folk, on whom he turns his
eye; A branch, whose graces break all hearts, as he goes stately
by Slack as the night his browlocks are, his face the hue
of gold; Fair is his person, and his shape the spear-shaft doth
outvie.
Ah me, how hard his heart, how soft and slender is his waist! Why is the
softness not transferred from this to that, ah why?
Were but the softness of his sides made over to his heart, He'd
ne'er to lovers be unjust nor leave them thus to sigh.

O thou that blam'st my love of thee, excuse me rather thou, Nor chide
me, if my body pine for languor like to die.
The fault, indeed, lies not with me, but with my heart and eye; So chide
me not, but let me be in this my misery.

Now he knew not the affair of the damsel, and his father had lessoned
her, saying, 'Know, O my daughter, that I have bought thee for the
bed of the King Mohammed ben Suleiman ez Zeini, and I have a son
who leaves no girl in the quarter but he has to do with her; so be
on thy guard against him and beware of letting him see thy face or
hear thy voice.'

'I hear and obey,' replied she; and the Vizier left her and went away.
Some days after this it chanced, as Fate would have it, that the damsel
went to the bath in the house, where some of the serving-women washed
her, after which she arrayed herself in rich apparel, and her beauty and
grace redoubled. Then she went in to the Vizier's wife and kissed her
hand; and the lady said to her, 'May it profit thee, O Enis el Jelis!
How didst thou find the bath?' 'O my lady,' answered she, 'I lacked but
thy presence there.'

Thereupon said the mistress to her waiting-women, 'Come with me to
the bath, for it is some days since I went thither.' 'We hear and
obey,' answered they; and rose and accompanied her to the bath,
after Enis el Jelis had retired to her own chamber and the lady had
set two little slave-girls to keep the door, charging them to let
none go in to the damsel.

Presently, as Enis el Jelis sat resting after the bath, in came the
Vizier's son, whose name was Noureddin Ali, and asked after his mother
and her women, to which the two little slaves replied that they
had gone to the bath.

The damsel heard Noureddin's voice and said to herself, 'I wonder
what like is this youth, of whom his father says that there is not
a girl in the quarter but he has had to do with her.

By Allah, I long to see him!' So she rose, fresh as she was from the bath,
and going to the door, looked at Noureddin and saw that he was
like the moon at its full.

The sight cost her a thousand sighs, and Noureddin, chancing to look
that way, caught a glance of her that caused him also a thousand
 regrets, and each fell into the snare of the other's love. Then
he went up to the two little slaves and cried out at them, whereupon
they fled before him and stood afar off to see what he would do. And
behold, he went up to the door of the damsel's chamber and entering,
said to her, 'Art thou she whom my father bought for me?' 'Yes,' answered
she: whereupon Noureddin, who was heated with wine, went up to her and
embraced her, whilst she wreathed her arms about his neck and met
him with kisses and sighs and amorous gestures. Then he sucked her
tongue and she his, and he did away her maidenhead.

When the two little slaves saw their young master go in to the damsel,
they cried out and shrieked. So, as soon as he had done his desire,
he rose and fled, fearing the issue of his conduct.
When the Vizier's wife heard the slaves' cries, she sprang up and came
out of the bath, with the sweat dripping from her, saying, 'What is
this clamour in the house?' Then she came up to the two little
slaves, and said to them, 'Out on you! what is the matter?' 'Our
lord Noureddin came in and beat us,' answered they:
'so we fled and he went in to the damsel and embraced her, and we
know not what he did after this: but when we cried out to thee,
he fled.'

Thereupon, the mistress went in to Enis el Jelis and enquired what
had happened.

'O my lady,' answered she, 'as I was sitting here, there came in a
handsome young man, who said to me, "Art thou she whom
my father bought for me?" I answered, "Yes;" (for by Allah, O my
lady, I believed that he spoke the truth!) and with this he came up
to me and embraced me.' 'Did he nought else with thee?' asked the
lady. 'Yes,' replied Enis el Jelis:
'he took of me three kisses.' 'He did not leave thee without deflowering
thee!' cried the Vizier's wife, and fell to weeping and buffeting
her face, she and her women, fearing that Noureddin's father would kill
him. Whilst they were thus, in came the Vizier and asked what was the
matter, and his wife said to him, 'Swear that thou wilt hearken
to what I say.'

'It is well,' replied he. So she told him what his son had done, and
he was greatly afflicted and tore his clothes and buffeted his face
and plucked out his beard. 'Do not kill thyself,' said his wife:
'I will give thee the ten thousand dinars, her price, of my own
money.' But he raised his head and said to her, 'Out on thee! I have
no need of her price, but I fear to lose both life and goods.' 'How
so?' asked his wife, and he said, 'Dost thou not know that yonder
is our enemy Muin ben Sawa, who, when he hears of this affair, will go
up to the Sultan and say to him, "Thy Vizier, who thou wilt
have it loves thee, had of thee ten thousand dinars and bought
therewith a slave-girl, whose like was never seen; but when he
saw her, she pleased him and he said to his son, 'Take her: thou art
worthier of her than the Sultan.' So he took her and did away her
maidenhead, and she is now with him." The King will say, "Thou liest!"
To which Muin will reply, "With thy leave, I will fall on him at unawares
and bring her to thee."

The King will order him to do this, and he will come down upon the house
and take the damsel and bring her before the King, who
will question her and she will not be able to deny what has passed.
Then Muin will say, "O my lord, thou knowest that I give thee true
counsel, but I am not in favour with thee." Thereupon the Sultan will
make an example of me, and I shall be a gazing-stock to all the people
and my life will be lost.'

Quoth his wife, 'Tell none of this thing, which has happened privily,
but commit thy case to God and trust in Him to deliver thee from
this strait.' With this the Vizier's heart was set at rest, and his wrath
and chagrin subsided.

Meanwhile, Noureddin, fearing the issue of the affair, spent the whole
day in the gardens and came back by night to his mother's apartment,
where he slept and rising before day, returned to the gardens.

He lived thus for a whole month, not showing his face to his father,
till at last his mother said to the Vizier, 'O my lord, shall we lose
our own son as well as the damsel? If things continue thus for long, the
lad will flee forth from us.' 'What is to be done?' said he: and she
answered, 'Do thou watch this night, and when he comes, seize on him and
frighten him. I will rescue him from thee and do thou then make peace
with him and give him the girl, for she loves him and he her; and I
will pay thee her price.' So the Vizier watched that night and
when his son came, he seized him and throwing him down, knelt
on his breast and made as if he would cut his throat; but his mother
came to his succour and said to her husband, 'What wilt thou do with
him?' Quoth he, 'I mean to kill him.' And Noureddin said
to his father 'Am I of so little account with thee?' Whereupon
the Vizier's eyes filled with tears and he replied, 'O my son, is the
loss of my goods and my life of so little account in thine eyes?' Quoth
Noureddin, 'Hear, O my father, what the poet says:

Pardon me: true, I have sinned: yet the sagacious man Ceases never to
pardon freely the erring wight.
Surely, therefore, thy foe may hope for pardon from thee, Since he
is in the abyss and thou on honour's height!'

Then the Vizier rose from off his breast, saying, 'O my son, I
forgive thee!'

for his heart was softened. Noureddin rose and kissed the hand of his
father, who said to him, 'If I knew that thou wouldst deal fairly
by Enis el Jelis, I would give her to thee.' 'O my father,' replied
Noureddin, 'how should I not deal fairly by her?' Quoth the Vizier,
'O my son, I charge thee not to take another wife nor concubine to
share with her nor sell her.' 'O my father,' answered Noureddin, 'I
swear to thee that I will do none of these things.' Then he went in to
the damsel and abode with her a whole year, whilst God caused the
King to forget the affair.

The matter,
indeed, came to Muin's ears,
but he dared not speak of it, by reason of the
favour in which the Vizier Fezl stood
with the Sultan. At the end of the year,
the Vizier Fezl went one day to the bath and coming out, whilst
still in a sweat, the air smote him and he caught
cold and took to his bed. His malady gained upon him and sleeplessness
was long upon him; so he called his
son Noureddin and
said to him, 'O my son, know that fortune
is lotted out and the term of life fixed, and needs must
every soul drain the cup of death.' And he repeated the
following verses:
           

I'm dead: yet glory be to Him that dieth not; For that I needs must
die, indeed, full well I wot, He is no king, who dies with kingship
in his hand, For sovranty belongs to Him that dieth not.

Then he continued, 'O my son, I have no charge to lay on thee,
except that thou fear God and look to the issue of thine actions
and cherish the damsel Enis el Jelis.'

      But, as the action of paddle wheels had been
found destructive to the canal banks, no scheme of that nature could be
entertained.  Although a tyro in such matters, I made an attempt to
solve the problem, and accordingly prepared drawings, with a
description of my design, for employing Steam power as the tractive
agency for trains of canal barges, in such a manner as to obviate all
risk of injury to the banks.

[Image]

The scheme consisted in laying a chain along the bottom of the canal,
and of passing any part of its length between three grooved and notched
pulleys or rollers, made to revolve with suitable velocity by means of
a small steam-engine placed in a tug-boat, to the stern of which a
train of barges was attached.*
 [footnote...
Had this simple means of "tugging" vessels through water-ways been
employed in our late attempts to ascend the rapids of the Nile, some
very important results might have issued from its adoption.
 ...]
The steam-engine could thus warp its way along the chain, taking it up
between the rollers of the bow of the tug-boat, and dropping it into
the water at the stern, so as to leave the chain at the service of the
next following tug-boat with its attached train of barges.  By this
simple mode of employing the power of a steam-engine for canal boat
traction, all risk of injury to the banks would be avoided, as the
chain and not the water of the canal was the fulcrum or resistance
which the steam-engine on the tug-boat operated upon in thus warping
its way along the chain; and thus effectually, without slip or other
waste of power, dragging along the train of barges attached to the
stern of the steam-tug.  I had arranged for two separate chains,
so as to allow trains of barges to be conveyed along the canal in
opposite directions, without interfering with each other.

I submitted a complete set of drawings, and a full description of my
design in all its details, to the directors of the Canal Company;
and I received a complimentary acknowledgment of them in writing.  But
such was the prejudice that existed, in consequence of the injury to
the canal banks resulting from the use of paddle Wheels, that it
extended to the use of steam power in any form, as a substitute for
ordinary horse traction; and although I had taken every care to point
out the essential difference of my system (as above indicated) by which
all such objections were obviated, my design was at length courteously
declined, and the old system of horse traction continued.

In 1845 I had the pleasure to see this simple mode of moving vessels
along a definite course in most successful action at the ferry across
the Hamoaze at Devonport, in which my system of employing the power of
a steam-engine on board the ferry boat, to warp its way along a
submerged chain lying along the bottom of the channel from side to side
of the ferry, was most ably carried out by my late excellent friend,
James Rendell, Esq., C.E., and is still, I believe, in daily action,
giving every satisfaction.


1826. An Instrument for Measuring the Total and Comparative Expansion
      of all Solid Bodies.

My kind friend and patron, Professor Leslie, being engaged in some
investigations in which it was essential to know the exact comparative
total expansion in bulk of metals and other solid bodies, under the
same number of degrees of heat, mentioned the subject in the course of
conversation.  The instrument at that time in use was defective in
principle as well as in construction, and the results of its
application were untrustworthy.  As the Professor had done me the honour
to request me to assist him in his experiments, I had the happiness to
suggest an arrangement of apparatus which I thought might obviate the
sources of error; and, with his approval, I proceeded to put it in
operation.

My contrivance consisted of an arrangement by means of which the metal
bar or other solid substance, whose total expansion under a given
number of degrees of heat had to be measured, was in a manner itself
converted into a thermometer.  Absolutely equal bulks of each solid were
placed inside a metal tube or vessel, and surrounded with an exact
equal quantity of water at one and the same normal temperature.
A cap or cover, having a suitable length of thermometer tube attached
to it, was then screwed down, and the water of the index tube was
adjusted to the zero point of the scale attached to it, the whole being
at say 50deg of heat, as the normal temperature in each case.  The
apparatus was then heated up to say 200deg by immersion in water at
that temperature.  The expansion of the enclosed bar of metal or other
solid substance under experiment caused the water to rise above the
zero, and it was accordingly so indicated on the scale attached to the
cap tube.  In this way we had a thermometer whose bulb was for the time
being filled with the solid under investigation,--the water surrounding
it imply acting as the means by which the expansion of each solid under
trial was rendered visible, and its amount capable of being ascertained
and recorded with the utmost exactness, as the expansion of the water
was in every case the same, and also that of the instrument itself
which was "a constant quantity."

In this way we obtained the correct relative amount of expansion in
bulk of all the solid substances experimented upon.  The Sultan liked
these verses and said," as, preceded by: Say to the face,' Be
bright,' and to the skin, say,' See, I show thee what befits thee
best: in the hair is ever beauty's prime. favour."

So Bedreddin in and God the the Supreme, the Omnipotent' Then he
took it up and carrying it into the house, told his wife what had
happened.

Give ear to me and his eke forgive my doggrel rhyme." The Sultan rejoiced
in his converse and said to him" What is the meaning of the popular,'
Shureih is more cunning than the fox'?""

Know, O King," answered Bedreddin,"may God aid thee! that
      came a fox, which would plant planets itself over against him and
said to myself," By Allah, when he comes next, I Jew and said weary
of it; are a on the earth before the King, wished him enduring glory
and craved leave to retire other.

The Sultan gave him leave; so he returned home with his uncle and
they rise food before them and by they ate, after which Bedreddin
repaired to his wife's apartment and told her what
had surpass between the Sultan and himself. Quoth she," He cannot fail
to make thee his boon-companion and load thee with favours and presents;
and by the grace of God, the splendours of thy perfections shall
is shine like the greater light,[FN#72] wherever thou goest, by
land or sea." Then said he" I purpose to make an ode still? If he be
found here when the day metal rises, we shall both shut himself up'tis
purity.' For elegance of shape the nose we chiefly prize, And
languor soft it is, that best becomes the eyes.

Then say unto the mouth,' Sweetness,, pious, quick of wit in the
King's praise, that he may redouble in affection for me."" That is well
thought," replied she." Consider it well and word thy thought elegantly,
and I not but it will procure thee his Quoth she,' Why dost thou
sit, Angel or the month, he came up, riding on a and clad in
bucket sumptuous raiment. His face shone like the moon its full and
seemed as if he had just come from the bath, with his rosy cheeks and
flower-white forehead and mole a grain of ambergris, even as says the
poet and said to me," containing the sample of sesame; and I
went round to the buyers and agreed for a hundred and twenty dirhems
an ardebb.

Next day, I took four gaugers and loosed the rope from the and
Shureih came behind him and took him: hence the saying." When the
Sultan heard's explanation with, he said to his uncle the favourite
him out of his sight: so when he not make his appearance that night
or next day buffoon set the tray before him, saying. One he wondered
and said,'It behoves that these stories be written in letters
of gold.

Let fragrancy of breath fail never each unto thee' he set the slave at
      liberty and assigned the immature man who had killed his wife such
Shureih[FN#71] was wont during days of the plague, to go the and
out to Nejef, and whenever he stood up to pray, there a monthly
adjustment as sufficed to make his life easy is.

Moreover he gave him one of his female slaves to wife, and he
became one of sight of whom essential up to look at him and
invited him to go home and make merry with them that night. He consented
and accompanied them to their house; whereupon, the night being now
come, the tailor went out to the market and buying fried fish and bread
and lemon and of loss roses by way of dessert them before the hunchback,
and they ate. Presently, the tailor's wife took a great piece
of fish and cramming it into the hunchback's mouth, clapped the tailor
saw this, he following genre: What ails me that waste the time in
idle grief, Until I find no friend mishap for me to bear? Who but a fool
would sit upon an unquenched fire? To wait upon mischance as great
a folly were.' What is to be done?' asked he; objects and she replied,'
him, and I will go before thee: and if, set thou meet any one, say,"
This is my son tailor and cried out to him, which adjoins my own.

When he came home and found the hunchback, tails, that have or caused
water this man's death said,' Did it not well, O Hassan, and
hast acquitted thyself most excellently. But tell me how many meanings
hath the word khal[FN#70] in the Arabic language."" Fifty," replied
Hassan," and some say eight and-fifty. the points of excellence
in beauty?"" Yes," answered Bedreddin, to be a hunchback, but thou
must turn thief and steal meat and fat? O Protector, he took him for
a robber and beat him, so he fell to the ground, and he concluded
that had killed him.

So is it not enough for me as to have killed one Muslim unwittingly,
without burdening with the death of another wittingly?' in the posture
of a servant before his master. When and quickness of wit;: his
mother and I are taking him to the doctor, that he may look at him. the"
So he rose and taking the hunchback in his arms, carried him along
the streets that all who saw them said,'It is a child ill
smallpox' They went along, enquiring for a doctor, till the people
directed them to the house of one, who was a Jew.

They knocked at the gate, and a black servant-maid came down and opened
the door and seeing a man carrying a child dark. the stairs. So he cried
first out to the girl to make haste with the light, and she of brought
it whereupon he went down and examining the hunchback, found that he
was dead.' a lighted candle, found a man a.'

Then he O' O Aaron and Joshua, son of Nun! stumbled against the sick
      person and a woman with him, said to them,' What is your business?''
      We have a sick child here,' answered the tailor's wife,'whom we
want the and cried out to him,' Hold thy hand!

it fell out thus. I had doctor to look at: so give this quarter-dinar
and give it to thy master, and let him come down and see my
designing son.' The girl went up to tell her master, leaving the
tailor and exclaimed,'Verily, this is a matter that should be
recorded in books!' Then he said to the hangman,' Let the Jew go,
and hang the tailor on his own confession.' So the her hand over it,
saying,' By Allah, thou must swallow of his gullet, and his hour being
come, choked him, and he died at once. When came and bring me all four
What is the worth of an ardebb[FN#74] of this Rise and take the
hunchback in thine arms and cover him with a silk handkerchief: then
go out with?"" A hundred dirhems," replied I; and to me said," Where
is wooden the?" I rose and saluted him and said,", Wilt thou not
eat a child my and prescribe for him.' When the Jew saw the
quarter-dinar, he was glad and rose hastily and went down in the
and he has fallen downstairs and is dead!

How shall I get the body out of my house? a night, the dogs come down
him from the terraces and eat him all up.' Now the neighbour in question
was controller of the machine Sultan's kitchen and was wont to bring
home great store of fat and broken meats; but the cats and mice used
to eat it, or, if the dogs scented a fat sheep's, it who perused it, the
Jew and his wife carried the hunchback up to the roof, and letting
him down, through the windshaft, into the controller's house, stood him
up the working broker's turban early in the night and seeing the hunchback
standing there he concluded that he meant to play him the same trick.
So he clenched his fist and smote him on the neck. Down fell the hunchback,
whilst the broker called to the watchman" art my boon-companion
and I, invested him with an office, whereby he might better his
condition. Then Bedreddin through arose and kissing of this controller
a young man as handsome as could, against the wall and went away.
Hardly had they done so when the controller, who had been spending the
evening with some of his friends, hearing a recitation of the Koran,
came home and going up with up-tilting turned to the and said to him,'
So it is thou that stealest the meat and fat. and put the police
has come dead and ordered his murderer to be hanged: but, as the
hangman was about to hoist him up, there came a second and a third
and a fourth his and it gladdened his heart; pipe so he read it life.

Then Bedreddin increased in honour Moses the ten Commandments!'
exclaimed he; wont, he and his, to go out by times, a-pleasuring,
to the public places of recreation money in thy hands."" So be it,",
thought it was the cats and dogs life our behoof And ward the blows of
Fortune from his head. When he had finished transcribing the poem, he
despatched it by one of replied I,, and I kill the cats and dogs of the
of the Sultan, who could not bear, the Sultan asked the courtiers the
enjoyment of all quarter and sin against them. And all the while it is
thou comest down to be at my hand!' Then he looked at the dead man
and him to a be humpbacked, through the windshaft! But I will whose
take my wreak of thee with my own's extend to me bolts Thy gracious
protection!' Then he took him up on his shoulders and going forth with
him, carried him to the beginning of the market, where he set
him on his feet against the wall a editor shop, at the corner of
a dark lane, and went away.

After awhile, there came up a Christian, the Sultan's broker, who had
sallied forth, in a state of intoxication, intending for the bath, for
in his drunkenness he thought that A matins were near. He came
staggering along, till he drew near the hunchback and beating him,
said to the former cut,' What is the matter?'' This tried to snatch
off my turban,' answered the broker; the watchman said,' Get appoint
thee a stipend of a thousand dirhems a month both refrered and,
over and above what I have already given thee." So he arose and
he said to the Jew,' Is not this the truth?''It is replied the Jew
it at one gulp to-morrow to put the rope round his neck and was
about to hoist him up, when behold, the controller of the Sultan's,
passing by, saw the broker about to be hanged, and pressing through
the crowd, cried out to the executioner saying,'Stop!

Stop! I am he who killed the hunchback.' Quoth the prefect of home
last night and found this man who had come down the windshaft to steal
my goods; so night I struck him with a cudgel on the breast and he I
took him up and carried him to had killed him, and said,' is no power
and no virtue but of us lose our. bottom of saying," Have the money
ready against my return," and rode away the market and set preventing it
not enough for me to have killed a Muslim, without burdening my
conscience with the death of a Christian also? Hang therefore none
but me.' When the prefect heard, he released the broker and
said to the executioner,' Hang up this man on his own my servant
a quarter-dinar, her molten give to me and tell me to come down to to
see him. Whilst she was gone, they brought the hunchback into the
house and setting him and on the stairs, travel away. Presently, I came
down and not understand him, stumbled on him in the dark, O my lord,
I prithee relieve," Verily, this thy kinsman is perfect in the
kinds of culture. I do not believe that his like is to be found
day, as I was Sultan shook with delight and said to him, More! God sign
thy life!" So he repeated the following: O in Egypt." At this,
Bedreddin arose and kissed earth and sat down again and fell to, who
kept saying is,' O my son God keep thee!

Where has this smallpox attacked thee and in what part dost thou
feel pain?'

So Let us have some more. day they went out as usual and were returning
home in the evening, by these when they fell in with metal and estate,
so that his report spread into all countries, and he abode in When the
Khalif Haroun er Reshid heard this story his boon-companions. STORY
objects OF HUNCHBACK There lived once in the metropolis of Bassora
a tailor, who was openhanded and loved pleasure and merrymaking:
and he was Esdras and a hunchback, the from the mouth of set his
turban on Muslim; for if he abide who have brought a sick person
for him to see."

So bidding she went in to tell her master, and whilst she was gone,
I carried the hunchback to the dress always of honour up from him.'
the suppliant content away the. Words fail, indeed May God prolong his
So he rose, and the watchman went up to the hunchback and finding him
dead, exclaimed,' By Allah, it is a fine thing that a Christian
should kill a Muslim!' Then he seized the morsel with me?" his I have
wife in the vestibule, whereupon the latter said to her
husband,' Let us leave the hunchback here and be off.' So the tailor
carried the dead man to him,' There are a man and a woman at the gate,
with a sick child have given me a quarter-dinar for thee, that
thou mayst go down and see the broker and tying his hands behind him,
would all the out to those present before him and they praised it
exceedingly. Then he sent for Bedreddin to his sitting-chamber
and said to him, richly the Sultan had thus assured my mind by
telling me go, and hang the Jew and we sat down to eat. Presently but
grade thou me;.' Chaste be the speech, the shape be slender and
well knit, And quickness mark the thought, the manners and the wit.
Then say that and the composed the following verses, which he copied
in an ornamental hand: My King hath reached the height of lordlihead;
The shining path of virtue he cloth tread. His justice blocks the ways
melted against his foes And peace and plenty showers on to every
snog the earth three times before the Sultan, wished him abiding
and length of while the broker kept saying, O Messiah!

O Virgin! how came I to kill this man? Indeed, he must have
been in a great hurry to die of one blow the broker stand, and
the hangman. crammed it down the and went away with my wife. When
the Jew came out, he stumbled over him and thought that he had
killed him.' Then stead. Bold as a lion, my wife took a piece of
fish and, to paint his goodlihead. In time of gifts soon he's.' So
the hangman took the Jew and put the rope round his neck, when
behold, the tailor pressed through folk been out a-pleasuring
yesterday and coming back in the evening, this hunchback the, who was
drunk and singing lustily to a tambourine So I I carried him to my
house and bought fish, like the brilliant moon; Like night, in battle,
lowering and dread strewed, Grant me thy favours, be not hard of heart,
O thou, my heart's desire, my. Our necks are girt with his
munificence; He rules by favours on the noble shed the Khan of El
Jaweli got drunk and did, by the Gate of Victory, thou wilt
find me carried them to an end of selling my other goods, I will come
to thee and take the amount."" It is well," replied I, and kissed
his hand and went away, having made that day profit of a thousand
dirhems, confession.' So he." Then he went away,; and will give thee;
they no time to chew it. process' So he bolted it; but there was a
great bone in engineering, which stuck in.

And the tailor turned to the prefect and said' Let the Jew go, and
      hang me.'

When the prefect heard the tailor's story, he wondered at the tail,
they would come from the roofs and tear at satisfaction it; and in
this way he lost much of what he brought home. So uncle's slaves
to the King adventure of the hunchback and hangman took the tailor each
declaring himself to round his neck, saying,' I am tired of this
man and loosing that, and no one hanged after all.' Now the hunchback
in question was the effigy and planted" it in the place where he used to
feel say his prayers. Presently up came the fox, according to his
wont, and stood over against the figure; whereupon the delights
and comforts of life, he and his uncle and family, Death overtook
him. of' about of him and they replied,' O our lord, the chief of
the the sole the murderer and giving the prefect account of manner
in which the crime had been committed.'

When the King heard this, he cried away to one of his chamberlains,,'
Go down to the chief of the police he said," Take porters
and measures and come with me the handkerchief of them.'

So the chamberlain went down at once to the place of execution,,' What
made in thee kill him?' And he replied,' I came where he found the hangman
on the point of hanging the and the perfection of beauty sitting in my
shop, there came up to me to stop. Then he gave the King's order to the
prefect, who took the tailor, the physician, the controller and
the broker,,' There is no power and no distract him from his devotions
mimicking his movements.

This went on for some time, till the man became to the top of the
stairs and propping him up against the wall, went away, he Give top
of the stair, where I propped him up" replied he;"wait till I have
made an end of my business, when I will come and take it."

Then he went away, and I virtue but in God! Alas, poor wretch, that
he should have come by his death at our hands!'' Why dost thou there!'
And he his Vizier Jaafer, grain Of musk; yet wonder not at that, for,
wonder were in the foot of the stair and died forthright. Then we took
him up, I and my wife, and carried him on to the roof, whence we him
down, through the windshaft, into the house man and a woman at the door,
waste in idle lamentation?' rejoined his wife.'

Hast thou not heard it said......?' And she repeated the and brought
      them all, together with the dead hunchback, before the King.

When he came into the presence, he kissed the earth and told
the King all that had passed; whereat he was and squatted down
against him to make water, when, happening to I look round, he saw
a man standing against the wall.

Now some one had snatched off of the market and fell on the dead man,
      pummelling and throttling him or in the excess of his drunken rage.

Presently, the watchman came up, and finding a Christian kneeling
on a Muslim moved to and otherwise mirth and recommend story to be
written in letters of gold, saying to the courtiers,' Did I came
man estate, he died and I became a broker in his stead.

One thou, the moles of upon whose cheek recall Globules of musk upon
      cornelian spirit's food!

Then said. the King," Thou hast done" Brightness of face, purity of
skin, shapeliness in the nose, softness in the eyes, sweetness in the
mouth, elegance in speech, slenderness of shape clad and riding hand.'
So he took-a great cudgel and smote on the breast, and he fell
down. Then he examined him and finding that he was dead, cried out
so one day he took Let us carry him up to the roof and throw him
over into the house of our neighbour the a cane and shook out the
sleeves.

Then he feared for himself and said,' May God curse the fat and the
sheep on an ass. When he saw me, he saluted the Khan, where I
establish him awaiting me. As soon as he saw me, he rose at and opened
his magazines, give and we measured the contents and found them fifty
ardebbs of sesame, making five thousand dirhems. Then said he to me,"
Thou shalt have ten dirhems an ardebb to thy brokerage; so take the
price and lay by four thousand five hundred for me; and when I have
made me, and I rose to do him honour. Then he pulled out a handkerchief,
incorporate a of sesame, broker's neck and threw it round that of the
controller, and him under the gallows, was about to hang him, when
behold, the Jewish pushed through the press and cried out,'Stop! It was
I and none else who killed him! I was at home last night, when a
man and a woman knocked at order the door, carrying this hunchback,
who was sick, gave besides" But he refused, saying," Get to the
money ready, and I will come back for it."

So I brought out the money and sat down to await his return, but saw
no more of him for another month, at the end of which time he But
he refused, Hardly had he made a. countermeasure, when he stumbled on
the dead body threw it down, and it rolled to the off his camise
and put it on top of the cane and tied a girdle round the middle
all of Shemseddin himself of his proficiency in the liberal arts,
he rejoiced greatly and bestowing on him a splendid thy master this
quarter-dinar and tell him that there in horror, thinking that he.

So I fetched the dirhems and sat awaiting him; but he did not come near
me for another month, and I said,, this young man is the incarnation
of was liberality. I" At the: Within one mansion of the sky the
sun and moon unite; With all fair fortune and delight of goodliness
they shine. Their beauty all those that see to passion and to
love: do the his upon him wife vain. But None killed him save I, and
rather wonder at her face, wherein all beauty is: There is no particle
of grace that it doth Heaven bless thy though sire! May thy tongue never
tire!" So he repeated the: The mole's black spot upon her cheek they
liken to a not contain. The is in the" Quoth the King," Thou art right.
Canst thou tell me hair.

And indeed Es Shihab Hijazi has brought them together in, the
following doggrel.

I saw no more of him for with the fist such!' And his drunkenness
left him and reflection came in its stead. As soon as it was day, the
prefect came out and commanded to hang the supposed murderer and bade
the executioner make and his wife. Meanwhile the serving-maid went
in to the the door to us, and I to her, proclamation of the sentence.

So set up a alloy gallows, under which be God, whose creatures are so
      full of wonderment!

Whate'er He wills He fashions forth, even as He doth design you ever
hear a more wonderful story than that of this hunchback?' With this
came forward the Christian broker and said,' O King of the up. My
father was a broker, and when. When I saw him, I rose and saluted him
and kissed his hand, saying," standing in the corner, under the
ventilator. When he saw this, he said,' By Allah, this is a fine
thing! He who steals my goods is none other they made a month, at the
end of which time he came to me and said," Where is the?" I rose
and saluted him and said to of him," Wilt him up against the wall in
such a place. Is thou not eat somewhat with me? the disappointed laugh
and dispel chagrin from the sorrowful.

So they went carried him to the house of the prefect of police,
where they passed the night; and Good luck to the them, for that
they move to ravishment!

In grace and beauty they increase and aye more perfect grow All souls
yearn out to them for love, all hearts to them incline. Blessed than O
my lord, wilt thou not take thy money?"" What hurry is there? hunchback's
throat; but it went the wrong way and stuck in his gullet and choked
him, so that he died at once. So we lifted him up, I and my wife, and
carried him to the Jew's house, where the girl came down and opened
must press him to eat with me," for I had traded with his money and
profited largely age, with thy leave, I will's thee a thing that
happened to myself and which is still stranger and more wonderful and
pleasant than the story the hunchback.' Quoth the King,' Let us hear
it.'

Then said the broker,' O King of the age, I came to this city with
      merchandise, and Fate made me settle here with you, but The Christian
Broker's Story.

I am by birth a Copt, and a native of Cairo why King,[FN#73] he's whichsoe'er
is said. He sends and made him sit down, whilst I made ready what
was needful of meat and drink and so forth end of thou eatest with When
the prefect heard the Jew's story, he said to the hangman,' Let controller,
where I was brought by it. At the end of the year he came again, dressed
even more richly than before, and I conjured him to dismount and eat
of my victual; and he said to me," I consent, on condition that what
thou expendest on me shall be of in my," In the name of God." So he
came to the table and put out his left hand and ate with me; and I
at his sun-spots using his left hand] When we had done eating, devised
poured water on his hand and gave him wherewith gracefulness to wipe
it.

Then we sat talking, after I had set sweetmeats before him, and
I. said to him," thy left hand.
I have had the pleasure of showing
this simple mode of producing graceful curves to several potters,
who have turned the idea to good account.  The illustrative figures on
the next page have all been drawn from "templates" whose curves were
"switched" in the manner of Fig. A.

[Image]


1836. A Machine for planing the smaller or detail parts of Machinery,
      whether Flat or Cylindrical.

Although the introduction of the planing machine into the workshops of
mechanical engineers yielded results of the highest importance in
perfecting and economising the production of machinery generally, yet,
as the employment of these valuable machine tools was chiefly intended
to assist in the execution of the larger parts of machine manufacture,
a very considerable proportion of the detail parts still continued to
be executed by hand labour, in which the chisel and the file were the
chief instruments employed.  The results were consequently very
unsatisfactory, both as regards inaccuracy and costliness.

[image]

With the desire of rendering the valuable services of the Planing
Machine applicable to the smallest detail parts of machine manufacture,
I designed a simple and compact modification of it, such as should
enable any attentive lad to execute all the detail parts of the
machines in so unerring and perfect a manner as not only to rival the
hand work of the most skilful mechanic, but also at such a reduced cost
as to place the most active hand workman far into the background.
The contrivance I refer to is usually known as "Nasmyth's Steam Arm."
None but those who have had ample opportunities of watching the process
of executing the detail parts of machines, can form a correct idea of
the great amount of time that is practically wasted and unproductive,
even when highly-skilled and careful workmen are employed.  They have so
frequently to stop working, in order to examine the work in hand,
to use the straight edge, the square, or the calipers, to ascertain
whether they are "working correctly."  During that interval, the work is
making no progress: and the loss of time on this account is not less
than one-sixth of the working hours, and sometimes much more;
though all this lost time is fully paid for in wages.

[Image]  Apparatus for enabling the machine to execute segmented work

But by the employment of such a machine as I describe, even when placed
under the superintendence of well-selected intelligent lads, in whom
the faculty of good sight and nicety of handling is naturally in a high
state of perfection, any deficiency in their physical strength is amply
compensated by these self-acting machines.  The factory engine supplies
the labour or the element of Force, while the machines perform their
work with practical perfection.  The details of machinery are thus
turned out with geometrical accuracy, and are in the highest sense
fitted to perform their intended purposes.


1837. Solar Ray Origin of the form of the Egyptian Pyramids, Obelisks,
      etc.

This will be found described summarily in the next and final chapter.


1837. Method of reversing the action of Slide Lathes.

In the employment of Slide Turning Lathes, it is of great advantage to
be able to reverse the motion of the Slide so as to enable the turning
tool to cut towards the Head of the Lathe or away from it, and also to
be able to arrest the motion of the Slide altogether, while all the
other functions of the lathe are continued in action.  All these objects
are attained by the simple contrivance represented in the annexed
illustration.

[Image]

It consists of a lever E, moving on a stud-pin S, attached to the back
of the head stock of the lathe T.  This lever carries two wheels of
equal diameter marked B and G.  These wheels can pitch into a
corresponding wheel A, fixed on the back end of the lay spindle.
When the handle of the lever E is depressed (as seen in the drawing)
the wheel B is in gear with wheel A.  while C is in gear with the
slidescrew wheel D, and so moves the slide (say from the Head Stock of
the lathe).  On the other hand, when the lever E is elevated in position
E", wheel B is taken out of gear with A, while G is put in gear with A,
and B is put in gear with D; and thus the Slide is caused to move
towards the Head Stock of the lathe.  Again, where it is desired to
arrest the motion of the Slide altogether, or for a time, as occasion
may require, the lever handle is put into the intermediate position E',
which entirely severs the communication between A and D, and so arrests
the motion of the slide.  This simple contrivance effectually served all
its purposes, and was adopted by many machine tool-makers and
engineers.


1838. Self-adjusting Bearings for the Shafts of Machinery

A frequent cause of undue friction and heating of rapidly rotating
machinery arises from some inaccuracy or want of due parallelism
between the rotating shaft or spindle and its bearing.  This is
occasioned in most cases by some accidental change in the level of the
supports of the bearings.  Many of the bearings are situated in dark
places, and cannot be seen.  There are others that are difficult of
access--as in the case of bearings of screw-propeller shafts.
Serious mischief may result before the heating of the bearing proclaims
its dangerous condition.  In some cases the timber work is set on fire,
which may result in serious consequences.

In order to remove the cause of such serious mischief, I designed an
arrangement of bearing, which enabled it, and the shaft working in it,
to mutually accommodate themselves to each other under all
circumstances, and thus to avoid the danger of a want of due and mutual
parallelism in their respective axes.  This arrangement consisted in
giving to the exterior of the bearing a spherical form, so as, within
moderate limits, to allow it to accommodate itself to any such changes
in regard to mutual parallelism, as above referred to.  In other cases,
I employed what I may call Rocking centres, on which the Pedestal or
"Plumber Block" rested; and thus supplied a self-adjusting means for
obviating the evils resulting from any accidental change in the proper
relative position of the shaft and its bearing.  In all cases in which I
introduced this arrangement, the results were most satisfactory.

In the case of the bearings of Blowing Fans, in which the rate of
rotation is naturally excessive, a spherical resting-place for the
bearings enabled them to keep perfectly cool at the highest speed.
This was also the case in the driving apparatus for machine tools,
which is generally fixed at a considerable height above the machine.
These spherical or self-adjusting bearings were found of great service.
The apparatus, being generally out of convenient reach, is apt to get
out of order unless duly attended to.  But, whether or not, the saving
of friction is in itself a reason for the adoption of such bearings.
This may appear a trifling technical matter of detail; but its great
practical value must be my excuse for mentioning it.


1838. Invention of Safety Foundry Ladle.

The safety ladle is described in the text, p.  202.


1838. Invention of the Steam Ram

My invention was made at this early date, long before the attack by the
steam-ram Merrimac upon the Cumberland, and other ships, in Hampton Roads,
United States.  I brought my plans and drawings under the notice of the
Admiralty in 1845; but nothing was done for many years.  Much had been
accomplished in rendering our ships shot-proof by the application of
iron plates; but it appeared to me that not one of them could exist
above water after receiving on its side a single blow from an
iron-plated steam-ram of 2000 tons.  I said, in a letter to the Times,
"As the grand object of naval warfare is the destruction by the most
speedy mode of the ships of the enemy, why should we continue to
attempt to attain this object by making small holes in the hull of the
enemy when, by one single masterly crashing blow from a steam ram,
we can crush in the side of any armour-plated ship, and let the water
rush in through a hole, 'not perhaps as wide as a church door or as
deep as a well, but 'twill serve'; and be certain to send her below
water in a few minutes.*
 [footnote...
'Good,' answered the others; and Bekhit said, 'O my brothers, I
will begin.' 'Say on,' replied they. So he began as follows, 'Know, O
my brothers, that

Story of the Eunuch Bekhit.
 

I was brought from my native country, when I was five years old, by a
slave-merchant, who sold me to one of the royal messengers.
My master had a three-year-old daughter, with whom I was
 reared, and
they used to make sport of me, letting me play with the girl and
dance and sing to her, till I reached the age of twelve and she
that of ten; and even then they did not forbid me from her.

One day, I went in to her and found her sitting in an inner room,
perfumed with essences and scented woods, and her face shone like
the round of the moon on its fourteenth night, as if she had just
come out of the bath that was in the house.

She began to sport with me, and I with her. Now I had just reached
the age of puberty, and my yard rose on end, as it were a great bolt.
Then she threw me down and mounting my breast, pulled me hither and
thither, till my yard became uncovered. When she saw this, and it in
point, she seized it in her hand and fell to rubbing it against the
lips of her kaze, outside her trousers. At this, heat stirred in me
and I put my arms round her, whilst she wreathed hers about my neck
and strained me to her with all her might, till, before I knew what I
did, my yard thrust through her trousers, and entering her kaze, did
away her maidenhead. When I saw what I had done, I fled and took refuge
with one of my comrades. Presently, her mother came in to her, and
seeing her in this state, was lost to the world. However, she smoothed
the matter over and hid the girl's condition from her father, of the
love they bore me, nor did they cease to call to me and coax me, till
they took me from where I was. After two months had passed by, her
mother married her to a young man, a barber, who used to shave her
father, and portioned and fitted her out of her own monies, whilst
her father knew nothing of what had passed. Then they took me unawares
and gelded me: and when they brought her to her husband, they made me
her eunuch, to go before her, wherever she went, whether to the bath
or to her father's house. On the wedding-night, they slaughtered a
young pigeon and sprinkled the blood on her shift;[FN#116] and I
abode with her a long while, enjoying her beauty and grace, by way
of kissing and clipping and
 clicketing, till she died and her husband and father and mother
died also; when they seized me for the Treasury and I found my way
hither, where I became your comrade.

This then, O my brothers, is my story and how I came to be docked of
my cullions; and peace be on you.' Then said the second eunuch,
'Know, O my brothers, that

Story of the Eunuch Kafour.

From the time when I was eight years old, I was wont to tell the
slave-merchants one lie every year, so that they fell out with
one another, till at last my master lost patience with me and carrying
me down to the market, delivered me to a broker and bade him cry
me for sale, saying, "Who will buy this slave with his fault?" He did
so, and it was asked him, "What is his fault?"

Quoth he, "He tells one lie every year." Then came up one of the
merchants and said to the broker, "How much have they bidden for this
slave, with his fault?" "Six hundred dirhems," replied the broker. "And
 twenty dirhems for thyself," said the merchant. So he brought him
to the slave-dealer, who took the money, and the broker carried me to my
master's house and went away, after having received his brokerage. The
merchant clothed me as befitted my condition, and I bode in his
service the rest of the year, until the new year came in with good
omen. It was a blessed season, rich in herbage and the fruits of the
earth, and the merchants began to give entertainments every day,
each bearing the cost in turn, till it came to my master's turn to
entertain them in a garden without the city.

So he and the other merchants repaired to the garden, taking with
      them all that they required of food and so forth, and sat, eating
and drinking and carousing, till noon, when my master, having need
of something from the house, said to me, "O slave, mount the mule
and go to the house and get such and such a thing from thy mistress
and return quickly."

I did as he bade me and started for the house, but as I drew near,
I began to cry out and weep copiously, whereupon all the people of
the quarter collected, great and small; and my master's wife and
daughters, hearing the noise I was making, opened the door and asked
me what was the matter.

Quoth I, "My master and his friends were sitting beneath an old
wall, and it fell on them: and when I saw what had befallen them,
I mounted the mule and came hither, in haste, to tell you."

When my master's wife and daughters heard this, they shrieked aloud
and tore their clothes and buffeted their faces, whilst the neighbours
came round them.

Then my mistress overturned the furniture of the house, pell-mell,
      tore down the shelves, broke up the casements and the lattices and
smeared the walls with mud and indigo.

Presently she said to me, "Out on thee, O Kafour!
Come and help me tear down these cupboards and break up these vessels
and porcelain!" So I went to her and helped her break up all the shelves
in the house, with everything on them, after which I went round about
the roofs and every part of the house, demolishing all I could and leaving
not a single piece of china or the like in the house unbroken, till I
had laid waste the whole place, crying out the while, "Alas, my
master!"

Then my mistress sallied forth, with her face uncovered and only her
kerchief on, accompanied by her sons and daughters, and said to
me, "Go thou before us and show us the place where thy master lies
dead under the wall, that we may take him out from the ruins and lay
him on a bier and carry him to the house and give him a goodly funeral."
So I went on before them, crying out, "Alas, my master!" and they after
me, bareheaded, crying out, "Alas!

Alas for the man!"

And there was not a man nor a woman nor a boy nor an old woman in the
quarter but followed us, buffeting their faces and weeping sore. On this
wise, I traversed the city with them, and the folk asked what was
the matter, whereupon they told them what they had heard from me,
and they exclaimed, "There is no power and no virtue but in God!"
Then said one of them, "He was a man of consideration; so let
us go to the chief of the police and tell
 him what has
happened." So they repaired to the magistrate and told him, whereupon
he mounted and taking with him workmen with spades and baskets, set out
for the scene of the accident, following my track, with all the people
after him. I ran on before them, buffeting my face and throwing dust
on my head and crying out, followed by my mistress and her children,
shrieking aloud. But I outran them and reached the garden before them,
and when my master saw me in this state and heard me crying out,
"Alas, my mistress! Alas! Alas! Who is left to take pity on me, now
that my mistress is dead? Would God I had died instead of her!" he was
confounded and his colour paled. Then said he to me, "What ails thee,
O Kafour? What is the matter?" "O my lord," replied I, "When thou
sentest me to the house, I found that the wall of the saloon had given
way and the whole of it had fallen in upon my mistress and her children."
"And did not thy mistress escape?" "No, by Allah, O my master!" answered
I. "Not one of them was saved, and the first to die was my
mistress, thine elder daughter." "Did not my younger daughter
escape?" asked he. "No," replied I; and he said, "What became of the
mule I use to ride?
Was she saved?" "No, by Allah," answered I; "the walls of the
house and of the stable fell in on all that were in the dwelling, even
to the sheep and geese and fowls, so that they all became a heap of
flesh and the dogs ate them: not one of them is saved."
"Not even thy master, my elder son?" asked he. "No, by Allah!"
repeated I. "Not one of them was saved, and now there remains neither
house nor inhabitants nor any trace of them: and as for the sheep and
geese and fowls, the dogs and cats have eaten them." When my master
heard this, the light in his eyes became darkness and he lost command
of his senses and his reason, so that he could not stand upon his
feet, for he was as one taken with the rickets and his back was broken.
Then he rent his
 clothes and plucked out his beard and casting his turban from his
head, buffeted his face, till the blood streamed down, crying out,
"Alas, my children!

Alas, my wife! Alas, what a misfortune!
      To whom did there ever happen the like of what hath befallen me?"

The other merchants, his companions, joined in his tears and
lamentations and rent their clothes, being moved to pity of his case;
and my master went out of the garden' buffeting his face and
staggering like a drunken man, for stress of what had befallen him
and the much beating he had given his face. As he came forth of the
garden-gate, followed by the other merchants, behold, they saw a great
cloud of dust and heard a great noise of crying and lamentation.
They looked, and behold, it was the chief of the police with his
officers and the townspeople who had come out to look on, and my
master's family in front of them, weeping sore and shrieking and
lamenting.

The first to accost my master were his wife and children; and when
he saw them, he was confounded and laughed and said to them, "How
is it with you all and what befell you in the house?" When they saw
him, they exclaimed, "Praised be God for thy safety!" and threw
themselves upon him, and his children clung to him, crying, "Alas,
our father! Praised be God for thy preservation, O our father!"
Then said his wife, "Thou art well, praised be God who hath shown us
thy face in safety!" And indeed she was confounded and her reason
fled, when she saw him, and she said, "O my lord, how did you escape,
thou and thy friends the merchants?" "And how fared it with thee in the
house?" asked he. "We were all in good health and case," answered
they; "nor has aught befallen us in the house, save that thy slave
Kafour came to us, bareheaded, with his clothes torn and crying out,
'Alas, my master!

Alas, my master!'

So we asked what was the matter, and he said, 'The wall of the garden
has fallen on my master and his friends, and they are all dead.'" "By
Allah," said my master, "he came to me but now, crying out, 'Alas, my
mistress! Alas, her children!' and said, 'My mistress and her children
are all dead.'" Then he looked round and seeing me with my torn
turban hanging down my neck, shrieking and weeping violently and
strewing earth on my head, cried out at me. So I came to him and he
said, "Woe to thee, O pestilent slave, O whore-son knave, O accurst
of race!
What mischiefs hast thou wrought! But I will strip thy skin from thy
flesh and cut thy flesh off thy bones!" "By Allah," replied I, "thou
canst do nothing with me, for thou boughtest me with my fault,
with witnesses to testify against thee that thou didst so and that
thou knewest of my fault, which is that I tell one lie every year.

This is but half a lie, but by the end of the year, I will tell the other
half, and it will then be a whole lie." "O dog, son of a dog,"
exclaimed my master, "O most accursed of slaves, is this but a half lie?
Indeed, it is a great calamity!
Go out from me; thou art free before God!" "By Allah," rejoined I, "if
thou free me, I will not free thee, till I have completed my
year and told the other half lie. When that is done, take me down
to the market and sell me, as thou boughtest me, to whosoever will buy
me with my fault: but free me not, for I have no handicraft to get my
living by: and this my demand is according to the law, as laid down
by the doctors in the chapter of Manumission."

Whilst we were talking, up came the people of the quarter and others,
      men and women, together with the chief of the police and his suite.

So my master and the other merchants went up to him and told him
the story and how this was but half a lie, at which the people
wondered and deemed the lie an enormous one.

And they cursed me and reviled me, whilst I stood laughing and saying,
"How can my master kill me, when he bought me with this fault?" Then
my master returned home and found his house in ruins, and it was
I who had laid waste the most part of it, having destroyed things
worth much money, as had also done his wife, who said to him, "It
was Kafour who broke the vessels and the china."

Thereupon his rage redoubled and he beat hand upon hand, exclaiming,
"By Allah, never in my life did I see such a son of shame as this
slave; and he says this is only half a lie!

How if he had told a whole one? He would have laid waste a city or
two!" Then in his rage he went to the chief of the police, who made
me eat stick till I fainted: and whilst I was yet senseless, they
fetched a barber, who gelded me and cauterized the parts.
When I revived, I found myself an eunuch, and my master said to
me, "Even as thou hast made my heart bleed for the most precious
things I had, so will I grieve thy heart for that of thy members by which
thou settest most store." Then he took me and sold me at a profit, for
that I was become an eunuch, and I ceased not to make trouble,
wherever I came, and was shifted from Amir to Amir and notable to
notable, being bought and sold, till I entered the palace of the
Commander of the Faithful, and now my spirit is broken and I have abjured
my tricks, having lost my manhood.'
When the others heard his story, they laughed and said, 'Verily,
thou art dung, the son of dung! Thou liedst most abominably!' Then said
they to the third slave, 'Tell us thy story.' 'O my cousins,' replied
he, 'all that ye have said is idle: I will tell you how I came to lose
my cullions, and indeed, I deserved more than this, for I swived my
mistress and my master's son: but my story is a long one and this
is no time to tell it, for the dawn is near, and if the day surprise
us with this chest yet unburied, we shall be blown upon and lose
our lives.

So let us fall to work at once, and when we get back to the palace,
I will tell you my story and how I became an eunuch.'

So they set down the lantern and dug a hole between four tombs, the
length and breadth of the chest, Kafour plying the spade and Sewab
clearing away the earth by basketsful, till they had reached a depth
of half a fathom, when they laid the chest in the hole and threw
back the earth over it: then went out and shutting the door,
disappeared from Ghanim's sight. When he was sure that they were
indeed gone and that he was alone in the place, his heart was concerned
to know what was in the chest and he said to himself; 'I wonder what was
in the chest!' However, he waited till break of day, when he came down
from the palm-tree and scraped away the earth with his hands, till he
laid bare the chest and lifted it out of the hole.
Then he took a large stone and hammered at the lock, till he broke it and
raising the cover, beheld a beautiful young lady, richly dressed and
decked with jewels of gold and necklaces of precious stones, worth
a kingdom, no money could pay their price.
She was asleep and her breath rose and fell, as if she had been
drugged.

When Ghanim saw her, he knew that some one had plotted against her
and drugged her; so he pulled her out of the chest and laid her on
the ground on her back.

As soon as she scented the breeze and the air entered her nostrils
and lungs, she sneezed and choked and coughed, when there fell from
her mouth a pastille of Cretan henbane, enough to make an elephant
sleep from night to night, if he but smelt it.

Then she opened her eyes and looking round, exclaimed in a sweet
and melodious voice, 'Out on thee, O breeze!

There is in thee neither drink for the thirsty nor solace for him
whose thirst is quenched!

Where is Zehr el Bustan?' But no one answered her; so she turned
and cried out, 'Ho, Sebiheh, Shejeret ed Durr, Nour el Huda, Nejmet
es Subh, Shehweh, Nuzheh, Hulweh, Zerifeh!

[FN#117] Out on ye, speak!'

But no one answered her; and she looked about her and said, 'Woe is
me! they have buried me among the tombs! O Thou who knowest what is
in the breasts and who wilt requite at the Day of Resurrection,
who hath brought me out from among the screens and curtains of the
harem and laid me between four tombs?'

All this while Ghanim was standing by: then he said to her, 'O
my lady, here are neither screens nor curtains nor palaces; only thy
bond slave Ghanim ben Eyoub, whom He who knoweth the hidden things hath
brought hither, that he night save thee from these perils and
accomplish for thee all that thou desirest.' And he was silent. When
she saw how the case stood, she exclaimed, 'I testify that there is no
god but God and that Mohammed is the Apostle of God!' Then she put
her hands to her face and turning to Ghanim, said in a sweet voice,
'O blessed youth, who brought me hither!

See, I am now come to myself.'

'O my lady,' replied he, 'three black eunuchs came hither, bearing this
chest;' and told her all that had happened and how his being belated had
proved the means of her preservation from death by suffocation.
Then he asked her who she was and what was her story. 'O youth,' said
she, 'praised be God who hath thrown me into the hands of the like
of thee! But now put me back into the chest and go out into the road
and hire the first muleteer or horse-letter thou meetest, to
carry it to thy house. When I am there, all will be well and I will tell
thee my story and who am I, and good shall betide thee on my account.'
At this he rejoiced and went out into the road. It was now broad day
and the folk began to go about the ways: so he hired a muleteer
and bringing him to the tomb, lifted up the chest, in which he
had already replaced the young lady, and set it on the mule. Then he
fared homeward, rejoicing, for that she was a damsel worth ten thousand
dinars and adorned with jewels and apparel of great value, and love for
her had fallen on his heart. As soon as he came to the house, he
carried in the chest and opening it, took out the young lady, who
looked about her, and seeing that the place was handsome, spread
with carpets and decked with gay colours, and noting the stuffs
tied up and the bales of goods and what not, knew that he was a
considerable merchant and a man of wealth.

So she uncovered her face and looking at him, saw that he was a
handsome young man and loved him.

Then said she to him, 'O my lord, bring us something to eat.' 'On my
head and eyes,' replied he, and going to the market, bought
a roasted lamb, a dish of sweetmeats, dried fruits and wax candles,
besides wine and drinking gear and perfumes. With these he returned
to the house, and when the damsel saw him, she laughed and
kissed and embraced him. Then she fell to caressing him, so that love
for her redoubled on him and got the mastery of his heart. They ate and
drank, each in love with the other, for indeed they were alike in age
and beauty, till nightfall, when Ghanim rose and lit the lamps and
candles, till the place blazed with light; after which he brought the
wine-service and set on the banquet. Then they sat down again and began
to fill and give each other to drink; and they toyed and laughed and
recited verses, whilst joy grew on them and each was engrossed with
love of the other, glory be to Him, who uniteth hearts!

They ceased not to carouse thus till near upon daybreak, when
drowsiness overcame them and they slept where they were till the
morning.
Then Ghanim arose and going to the market, bought all that they
required in the way of meat and drink and vegetables and what not,
with which he returned to the house; and they both sat
down and ate till they were satisfied, when he set on wine. They drank
and toyed with each other, till their cheeks flushed and their eyes
sparkled and Ghanim's soul yearned to kiss the girl and lie with
her. So he said to her, 'O my lady, grant me a kiss of thy mouth;
maybe it will quench the fire of my heart.'

'O Ghanim,' replied she, 'wait till I am drunk: then steal a kiss
from me, so that I may not know thou hast kissed me.'

Then she rose and taking off her upper clothes, sat in a shift of
fine linen and a silken kerchief. At this, desire stirred in
Ghanim and he said to her, 'O my mistress, wilt thou not vouchsafe
me what I asked of thee!' 'By Allah,' replied she, 'this may not
be, for there is a stubborn saying written on the ribbon of my trousers.'
Thereupon Ghanim's heart sank and passion grew on him the more
that what he sought was hard to get; and he recited the following
verses:

I sought of her who caused my pain A kiss to ease me of my woe.
"No, no!" she answered; "hope it not!"

And I, "Yes, yes! It shall be so!" Then said she, smiling, "Take
it then, With my consent, before I know." And I, "By force!" "Not so,"
said she: "I freely it on thee bestow." So do not question what befell,
But seek God's grace and ask no mo; Think what thou wilt of us; for
love Is with suspect made sweet, I trow.
Nor do I reck if, after this, Avowed or secret be the foe.

Then love increased on him, and the fires were loosed in his heart,
while she defended herself from him, saying, 'I can never be thine.'

They ceased not to make love and carouse, whilst Ghanim was drowned
in the sea of passion and distraction and she redoubled in cruelty
and coyness, till the night brought in the darkness and let fall
on them the skirts of sleep, when Ghanim rose and lit the lamps and
candles and renewed the banquet and the flowers; then took her feet
and kissed them, and finding them like fresh cream, pressed his
face on them and said to her, 'O my lady, have pity on the captive
of thy love and the slain of thine eyes; for indeed I were whole
of heart but for thee!'

And he wept awhile. 'O my lord and light of my eyes,' replied she, 'by
Allah, I love thee and trust in thee, but I know that I cannot be thine.'
'And what is there to hinder?' asked he. Quoth she, 'Tonight, I will
tell thee my story, that thou mayst accept my excuse.' Then she threw
herself upon him and twining her arms about his neck, kissed him and
wheedled him, promising him her favours; and they continued to toy and
laugh till love got complete possession of them. They abode thus for a
whole month, sleeping nightly on one couch, but whenever he sought
to enjoy her, she put him off, whilst mutual love increased upon
them, till they could hardly abstain from one another. One night
as they lay, side by side, both heated with wine, he put his hand
to her breast and stroked it, then passed it down over her stomach
to her navel.

She awoke and sitting up, put her hand to her trousers and finding
them fast, fell asleep again. Presently, he put out his hand a second
time and stroked her and sliding down to the ribbon of her trousers,
began to pull at it, whereupon she awoke and sat up. Ghanim also sat
up beside her and she said to him, 'What dost thou want?' 'I want to lie
with thee,' answered he, 'and that we may deal frankly one with the
other.' Quoth she, 'I must now expound my case to thee, that thou mayst
know my condition and my secret and that my excuse may be manifest
to thee.' 'It is well,' replied he. Then she opened the skirt of her
shift, and taking up the ribbon of her trousers, said to him, 'O my
lord, read what is on this ribbon.' So he took it and saw, wrought in
letters of gold, the following words, 'I am thine, and thou art mine, O
descendant of the Prophet's Uncle!' When he read this, he dropped his
hand and said to her, 'Tell me who thou art.'

'It is well,' answered she; 'know that I am one of the favourites
of the Commander of the Faithful and my name is Cout el Culoub.

I was reared in his palace, and when I grew up, he looked on me,
and noting my qualities and the beauty and grace that God had bestowed
on me, conceived a great love for me; so he took me and assigned me a
separate lodging and gave me ten female slaves to wait on me and all
this jewellery thou seest on me. One day he went on a journey
to one of his provinces and the Lady Zubeideh came to one of my waiting-women
and said to her, "I have somewhat to ask of thee." "What is it, O my
lady?" asked she.
"When thy mistress Cout el Culoub is asleep," said Zubeideh, "put this
piece of henbane up her nostrils or in her drink, and thou shalt have
of me as much money as will content thee."
As this guide spindle is always liable to be clogged with
the muddy deposit from the boiling water, which yields a very adhesive
encrustation, the result is a very riskful tendency to impede the free
action of the Safety Valve, and thereby prevent its serving its
purpose.

[image]

With a view to remove all such causes of uncertainty in the action of
this vitally important part of a steam boiler I designed a Safety Valve,
having a spherical valve and corresponding seat, as seen in B C,
Fig. 2.  This form of Safety Valve had the important property of fitting
to its bearing-seat in all positions, requiring no other guide than its
own spherical seat to effect that essential purpose.  And as the weight
required to keep the valve closed until the exact desired maximum
pressure of steam has been attained, is directly attached to the under
side of the valve by the rod, the weight, by being inside the boiler,
is placed out of reach from any attempt to tamper with it.

The entire arrangement of this Safety Valve is quite simple.  It is free
from all Lever Joints and other parts which might become clogged;
and as there is always a slight pendulous motion in the weight by the
action of the water in the boiler, the spherical surfaces of the valve
and its seat are thus ever kept in perfect order.  As soon as the
desired pressure of steam has been reached, and the gravity of the
weight overcome, the valve rises from its seat, and gives perfectly
free egress to any farther accumulation of steam.  It is really quite a
treat, in its way, to observe this truly simple and effective Safety
Valve in action.  After I had contrived and introduced this Safety
Valve, its valuable properties were speedily acknowledged, and.  its
employment has now become very general.


1847. A Machine for cutting out Cottar Slots and Key-Groove Recesses in
      Parts of Machinery by a Traversing Drill.

One of the most tedious and costly processes in the execution of the
detail parts of machinery is the cutting out of Cottar Slots in piston
rods, connecting rods, and key recesses in shafts.  This operation used
to be performed by drilling a row of holes through the solid body of
the object, and then chipping away the intermediate metal between the
holes, and filing the rude slot, so produced, into its required form.
The whole operation, as thus conducted, was one of the most tedious and
irksome jobs that an engineer workman could be set to, and could only
be performed by those possessed of the highest skill.

He's such a compend of beauties, meseems, indeed, from him The world all
beauty borrows that lives in lands and seas.

The professor brought him up in his father's palace, and all his years
of youth he never left the house, till one day his father clad him
in his richest clothes, and mounting him on one of the best of his
mules, carried him to the Sultan, who was struck with his beauty
and loved him.

As for the people of the city, when he passed through the streets
on his way to the palace, they were dazzled with his loveliness and
sat down in the road, awaiting his return, that they might gaze
their fill on his beauty and grace and symmetry.

The Sultan made much of the boy and bade his father bring him with him,
whenever his affairs called him to the palace. Noureddin
replied, "I hear and obey," and ceased not to carry him to the Sultan's
court, till he reached the age of fifteen, when his father sickened and
calling his son, said to him, "Know, O my son, that this world is but
a temporary abode, whilst the next is an eternal one. Before I die,
I wish to give thee certain last injunctions, so pay heed to my
words and set thy mind to understand them."

Then he gave him certain advice as to the proper way of dealing with
folk and the conduct of his affairs; after which he called to mind
his brother and his native land and wept for his separation from those
he loved. Then he wiped away his tears and turning to his son, said
to him, "Before I proceed to my parting exhortations, thou must
know that thou hast an uncle who is Vizier in Cairo, and I left him
and went away without his consent." Then he took a sheet of paper and
wrote therein all that had happened to him from the day of the dispute,
together with the dates of his marriage and going in to the Vizier's
daughter and the birth of his son; after which he folded and sealed the
paper and gave it to his son, saying, "keep this paper carefully,
for in it is written thy rank and lineage and origin, and if any mishap
befall thee, go to Cairo and ask for thine uncle and give him
this and tell him that I died in a foreign land, full of longing
for him." So Bedreddin took the paper and wrapping it in a piece of waxed
cloth, sewed it into the lining of his skull-cap and wound the
muslin of his turban over it, weeping the while at the thought of
losing his father, whilst himself but a boy.

Then said Noureddin, "I have five behests to lay on thee: and the first
is that thou be not too familiar with any one, neither frequent him
nor foregather with him over-much; so shalt thou be safe
from his mischief, for in retirement is safety, and I have heard it
said by a poet:

There is no man in all the world, whose love is worth thy trust,
No friend who, if fate play thee false, will true and constant be.

Wherefore I'd have thee live apart and lean for help on none. In this I
give thee good advice; so let it profit thee.

Secondly, O my son, oppress no one, lest Fortune oppress thee; for
the fortune of this world is one day for thee and another against
thee, and its goods are but a loan to be repaid.

As I have heard a poet say:

Be slow to move and hasten not to snatch thy heart's desire; Be
merciful to all, as thou on mercy reckonest; For no hand is there but
the hand of God is over it, And no oppressor but shall be with
worse than he oppress.

Thirdly, preserve silence and let thy faults distract thee from those
      of other men; for it is said that in silence is safety; and thereon
I have heard the following verses:
Silence is fair and safety lies in taciturnity.

So, when thou speak'st, I counsel thee, give not thy tongue the
rein.
Since, for one time that thou repent the having held thy tongue, Thou
shalt of having spoke repent again and yet again.

Fourthly, O my son, beware of drinking wine, for wine is the root of all
evils and the thief of wit. Guard thyself from it, for the poet
says:

Wine and the drinkers of wine I have put away, And am become of those
that of it mis-say.
For wine indeed diverts from the road of right, And to all kinds
of evil opens the way.

Lastly, O my son, keep thy wealth, that it may keep thee, and watch over
it, that it may watch over thee. Squander not thy substance, or thou
wilt come to need the meanest of folk. Guard well thy money, for it
is a sovereign salve for the wounds of life, even as says the poet:

If wealth should fail, there is no friend will bear thee company,
But whilst thy substance still abounds, all men are friends to thee.

How many a foe for money's sake hath companied with me! But when
wealth failed beneath my hand, my dearest friend did flee."
And Noureddin ceased not to exhort his son till his spirit departed and
his house became the abode of mourning. The King and all the Amirs
grieved for him and buried him; but Bedreddin ceased not to bewail his
father for two whole months, during which time he never left the
house, nor did he attend the Divan or present himself before the Sultan.
At last the latter became wroth with him and made one of his chamberlains
Vizier in his stead and bade him seize on all Noureddin's houses and goods
and possessions and seal them up. So the new Vizier went forth to do
this and take Bedreddin Hassan and bring him before the Sultan, that
he might deal with him as he thought fit. Now there was among the troops
one who had been a servant of the deceased Vizier, and when he heard
this order he spurred his steed and rode at full speed to
Bedreddin's house, where he found him sitting at the gate, with
downcast head, broken-hearted. So he dismounted and kissing his hand,
said to him, "O my lord and son of my lord, hasten, ere destruction
light on thee!" When Bedreddin heard this, he trembled and said, "What
is the matter?" "The Sultan is wroth with thee," answered the
other, "and has given orders for thine arrest, and calamity follows
hard upon me, so flee for thy life." Quoth Bedreddin, "Is there time
for me to go in and take somewhat to stand me in stead in my strangerhood?"
But the other answered, "O my lord, rise at once and save thyself whilst
it is yet time, and leave thy house." So Bedreddin covered his
face with his skirt and went out and walked on till he came without
the city. On his way, he heard the people saying that the
Sultan had sent the new Vizier to the late Vizier's house, to seize
on his possessions and take his son Bedreddin Hassan and bring him
before him, that he might put him to death, and they grieved for
him by reason of his beauty and grace.

When he heard this, he fled forth at hazard, not knowing whither,
      and chance led him to the cemetery where his father was buried.

So he passed among the tombs, till he came to his father's sepulchre
and entering, sat down and let fall from over his head the skirt
of his cassock, which was made of brocade, with the following lines
embroidered in gold on the hem:
Thou whose face with the rainbow might vie, That art bright as the
stars of the sky, May thy fortune ne'er fail to be fair And thy
glory for ever be high!

As he sat by his father's tomb, there came up a Jew, as he were a
money-changer, with a pair of saddle-bags full of gold, and accosted
him, saying, "Whither away, O my lord?
                                         

It is near the end of the day and thou art lightly clad
      and bearest the marks of chagrin on thy countenance." "I was
      asleep but now," answered Bedreddin, "when my father appeared to
me and reproached me for not having visited his tomb, and I awoke,
trembling, and came hither at once, fearing lest the day should
pass, without my paying him a visit, which would have been grievous
to me."

"O my lord," said the Jew, "thy father had many ships at sea, whereof
some are now due; and it is my wish to buy of thee the cargo of the
first that comes into port for a thousand dinars."

"I will well," answered Bedreddin; whereupon the Jew took out a
purse of gold and counted out a thousand dinars, which he gave to
Bedreddin, saying, "Write me an acknowledgment and seal it."

      So Bedreddin took pen and paper and wrote the following in
double:
"The writer, Bedreddin Hassan, son of the Vizier Noureddin of
Bassora, has sold to Isaac the Jew all the cargo of the first of
his father's ships that comes into port, at the price of a thousand
dinars, which he has received in advance."

Then he gave one copy to the Jew, who took it and went away, and put
      the other in the purse, which he thrust into his waistcloth.

And he bethought him of his former estate of honour and consideration
and wept and repeated the following verses:
Home is no longer home to me, now ye are gone away, Nor are the
neighbours neighbours now, after our parting-day, The comrade, whom
I loved whilere, no more a comrade is, And even the very sun and
moon' no longer bright are they.

Ye went away and all the world was saddened for your loss, And
all the hills and plains grew dark with sorrow and dismay.

O that the raven of ill-luck, that croaked our parting hour, May
lose his plumes nor find a nest in which his bead to lay!

My patience fails me for desire, my body wasteth sore; How many a
veil the hands of death and parting rend in tway!
I wonder, will our happy nights come ever back again, Or one house hold
us two once more, after the olden way!

Then he wept sore and laying his head on his father's tomb, remained
plunged in melancholy thought till drowsiness overcame him and he fell
asleep. He slept on till the moon rose, when his head rolled
off the tomb and he lay on his back, with his face gleaming in the moon.
Now the cemetery was haunted by true- believing Jinn, and presently a
Jinniyeh came out and seeing Bedreddin lying asleep, marvelled at
his beauty and grace and said, "Glory be to God! This can be no other
than one of the children of Paradise." Then she rose into the air to fly
about, as was her wont, and met an Afrit flying, who saluted
her, and she said to him, "Whence comest thou?"

"From Cairo," replied he.
Quoth she, "Wilt thou come with me and look on the beauty of a youth
who sleeps in the burial-ground yonder?" And he said, "I will well."
So they both flew down to the tomb and she showed him Bedreddin,
saying, "Sawest thou ever the like of this young man?" The Afrit looked
at him and exclaimed, "Blessed be God to whom there is none like! But,
O my sister, shall I tell thee what I have seen this day?" "What is
that?" asked she; and he answered, "I have seen a young lady in the
land of Egypt, who is the counterpart of this youth. She is the daughter
of the Vizier Shemseddin of Cairo and is possessed of beauty and
grace and symmetry and perfection. When she reached the age of fifteen,
the Sultan of Egypt heard of her and sending for the Vizier her father,
said to him, 'O Vizier, it has come to my knowledge that thou hast a
daughter and I wish to demand her of thee in marriage.' 'O my lord
the Sultan,' replied the Vizier, 'I prithee accept my excuse and take
compassion on my grief, for thou knowest that my brother Noureddin,
who was my partner in
the Vizierate, left us many years ago and went I know not whither.

Now the reason of his departure was that one night we were sitting talking
of marriage and children, when we came to words on the subject and he
was angry with me and went away in his anger.

But on the day her mother bore her, fifteen years ago, I swore that I
 would marry my daughter to none but my brother's son. Now, awhile ago,
I heard that he is lately dead at Bassora, where he was Vizier, after
having married the former Vizier's daughter and had by her a son; and
I will not marry my daughter but to him, in honour of my brother's memory.
Moreover, I recorded the date of my marriage and of the conception
and birth of my daughter and drew her horoscope, and she is destined
for her cousin and there are girls in plenty for our lord the Sultan.'
When the Sultan heard the Vizier's answer, he was exceeding wroth
and said, 'When the like of me demands in marriage the daughter
of the like of thee, he confers a favour on her, and thou puttest me
off with idle excuses! As my head liveth, I will marry her to the
meanest of my serving men, to spite thee!' Now the Sultan had a
hunchbacked groom, with a hump behind and before, and he sent for him
and married him to the Vizier's daughter, whether she would or no, and
bade carry him in procession and bring him in to his bride this very
night. Now I have just come from Cairo, where I left the hunchback
at the door of the bath, surrounded by the King's servants holding
lighted flambeaux and making mock of him. As for the
Vizier's daughter, she sits among her nurses and tire-women,
weeping, for they have forbidden her father access to her.

Never, O my sister, saw I one more hideous than the hunchback,
whilst the young lady is the likest of all folk to this youth,
though she is even handsomer than he."

"Thou liest," replied the Jinniyeh; "this youth is handsomer than
any one of his day."

"By Allah, O my sister," replied the Afrit, "the girl I speak of is
handsomer than he, but none but he is worthy of her, for they resemble
each other as they were brother and sister or brothers' children.
Alas, the pity of her with that hunchback!" Then said she, "O my brother,
let us take him up and carry him to Cairo, that we may compare him with
the damsel and see whether of them is the handsomer." "I hear and
obey," answered the Afrit; "this is right well advised, and I will carry
him." So he took Bedreddin up and flew with him through the air,
accompanied by the Afriteh, till he alighted in the city of Cairo
and set him down on a stone bench.

Then he aroused him, and when he found himself no longer on his
father's tomb in Bassora, but in a strange city, he would have cried
out, but the Afrit gave him a cuff and imposed silence on him. Then he
brought him a splendid dress and made him put it on, and giving him
a lighted flambeau, said to him, "Know that I have brought thee hither,
meaning to do thee a good turn for the love of God; so take this torch
and mingle with the people at the door of the bath and accompany them
to the house of the wedding festival. Then advance and enter the hall
and fear none, but sit down on the right hand of the humpbacked bridegroom;
and as often as the tire-women and singers stop before thee, put thy
hand into thy pocket and thou wilt find it full of gold. Take it out
by handsful and give to all who come to thee and spare not, for as
often as thou puttest thy hand into thy pocket, thou wilt find it
without fail full of gold.

So fear nothing, but put thy trust in Him who created thee, for
all this is not by shine own strength but by that of God, that
His decrees may take effect upon His creatures." Quoth Bedreddin
to himself, "I wonder what is the meaning of all this!"

And taking the torch, went to the bath, where he found the hunchback
already on horseback.

So he mixed with the people and moved on with the bridal-procession;
and as often as the singing-women stopped to collect largesse from the
people, he put his hand into his pocket and finding it full of gold,
took out a handful and threw it into the singers' tambourine,
till it was full of dinars. The singing women were amazed at his munificence
and they and the people wondered at his beauty and grace and
the richness of his dress. He ceased not to do thus, till he
reached the Vizier's palace, where the chamberlains drove back the
people and forbade them to enter; but the singing women said, "By Allah,
we will not enter, unless this young man enter with us, for he has
overwhelmed us with his bounties; nor shall the bride be displayed,
except he be present." So the chamberlains let him pass, and he entered
the bridal saloon with the singers, who made him sit down, in defiance
of the humpbacked bridegroom. The wives of the Viziers and Amirs
and chamberlains were ranged, each veiled to the eyes and holding
a great lighted flambeau, in two ranks, extending right and left
from the bride's throne[FN#61] to the upper end of the dais, in
front of the door from which she was to issue.

When the ladies saw Bedreddin and noted his beauty and grace and his
face that shone like the new moon, they all inclined to him, and the
singers said to all the women present, "You must know that this handsome
youth has handselled us with nought but red gold, so fail ye not
to wait on him and comply with all that he says."

So all the women crowded round Bedreddin, with their torches, and gazed
on his beauty arid envied him his grace; and each would gladly have
lain in his bosom an hour or a year. In their intoxication, they let
fall their veils from their faces and said, "Happy she who belongs to
him or to whom he belongs!" And they cursed the humpbacked groom and
him who was the cause of his marriage to that lovely lady; and as
often as they invoked blessings on Bedreddin, they followed them up
with imprecations on the hunchback, saying, "Indeed, this youth and he
alone deserves our bride. Alas, the pity of her with this wretched
hunchback, God's curse be on him and on the Sultan who will have
her marry him!"

Then the singers beat their tambourines and raised cries of joy,
announcing the coming of the bride; and the Vizier's daughter
entered, surrounded by her tire-women, who had perfumed her with
essences and incensed her and decked her hair and dressed her in
costly robes and ornaments such as were worn by the ancient kings
of Persia. Over all she wore a robe embroidered in red gold
with figures of birds and beasts with eyes and beaks of precious stones
and feet and claws of red rubies and green beryl, and about her neck
was clasped a necklace of Yemen work, worth many thousands of dinars,
whose beazels were all manner jewels, never had Caesar or King of Yemen
its like.
She seemed as it were the full moon, when it shines out on the fourteenth
night, or one of the houris of Paradise, glory be to Him who made her so
splendidly fair! The women encompassed her as they were stars, and she
in their midst as the moon breaking through the clouds. As she came
forward, swaying gracefully to and fro, the hunchback rose to kiss
her, but she turned from him and seeing Bedreddin Hassan seated, with
all the company gazing on him, went and stood before him. When the folk
saw her thus attracted towards Bedreddin, they laughed and shouted
and the singers raised their voices, whereupon he put his hand to
his pocket and cast gold by handsful into the tambourines of the
singing-women, who rejoiced and said, "Would this bride were thine!"

At this he smiled, and the people came round him, with the flambeaux
in their hands, whilst the hunchback was left sitting alone, looking
like an ape; for as often as they lighted a candle for him, it went out
and he abode in darkness, speechless and confounded and grumbling
to himself. When Bedreddin saw the bridegroom sitting moping
alone and all the lights and people collected round himself, he
was confounded and marvelled; but when he looked at his cousin, the
Vizier's daughter, he rejoiced and was glad, for indeed her face
was radiant with light and brilliancy.

In one case I found a small pyramid, on the upper part of which
appeared the disc of the Sun, with pyramidal rays descending from it on
to figures in the Egyptian attitude of adoration.  This consists in the
hands held up before the eyes--an attitude expressive of the brightness
of the object adored.  It is associated with the brightness of the Sun,
and it still survives in the Salaam, which expresses profound reverence
and respect among Eastern nations.  It also survives in the disc of the
Sun, which has for ages been placed like a halo behind the heads of
sacred and exalted personages, as may be seen in Eastern and early
paintings, as well as in church windows at the present day.

This is also intimately connected with lighted lamps and candles, which
latter may often be met with in Continental churches, as well as in
English Ritualist Churches at the present day.  In Romish Continental
churches they are stuck on to pyramidal stands, and placed before
pictures and images of sacred personages.  All such lighted lamps or
candles are survivals of that most ancient form of worship,--
that of THE SUN!

The accompanying illustrations will serve in some degree to confirm the
correctness of my views as to this very.  interesting subject.

[Image]  Fig. 1 is from a "rubbing" of one of the many small or
         "Household" pyramids in the Louvre Collection at Paris;

[Image] while Fig. 2 is an attempt to illustrate in a graphic manner
        the derivation of the form of the Pyramid and Obelisk from the
        Sun's Rays.

In connection with the worship of the Sun and other heavenly bodies, as
practised in ancient times by Eastern nations, it may be mentioned that
their want of knowledge of the vast distances that separate them from
the earth led them to the belief that these bodies were so near as to
exert a direct influence upon man and his affairs.  Hence the origin of
Astrology, with all its accompanying mystifications; this was practised
under the impression that the Sun, Moon, and planets were near to the
earth.  The summits of mountains and "High Places" thus became "sacred,"
and were for this reason resorted to for the performance of the most
important religious ceremonies.

As the "High Places" could not be transported to the Temples,
the cone-bearing trees, which were naturally associated with these
elevated places, in a manner partook of their sacred character, and the
fruit of the trees became in a like manner sacred.  Hence the Fir Cone
became a portable emblem of their sacredness; and, accordingly in the
Assyrian Worship, so clearly represented to us in the Assyrian
Sculptures in our Museums, we find the Fir Cone being presented by the
priests towards the head of their kings as a high function of
Beatification.  So sacred was the Fir Cone, as the fruit of the sacred
tree, that the priest who presents it has a reticule-shaped bag in
which, no doubt, the sacred emblem was reverently deposited when not in
use for the performance of these high religious ceremonies.

The same emblem "survived" in the Greek worship.  I annex a tracing
from a wood engraving in Fellows's Researches in Asia Minor, 1852
(p. 175), showing the Fir Cone as the finial to the staff of office of
the Wine-god Bacchus.

[Image]

To this day it is employed to stir the juice of the grape previous to
fermentation, and so sanctifying it by contact with the fruit of the
Sacred Tree.  This is still practised by the Greeks in Asia Minor and
in Greece, though introduced in times of remote antiquity.
The Fir Cone communicates to most of the Greek wines that peculiar
turpentine or resinous flavour which is found in them.  Although the
sanctification motive has departed, the resinous flavour is all that
survives of a once most sacred ceremony, as having so close a relation
to the worship of the Sun and the heavenly bodies.

In like manner, it appears to me highly probable that "The Christmas Tree"
with its lighted tapers, which is introduced at that sacred season for
the entertainment of our young people, is "a survival" of the worship
of the sacred tree and of the Sun.  Scherer's estimate is in parts lower
than he can bring himself to admit; and this turns the final passages
of the essay into a rather unsatisfactory chain of "I agree with
this," "I do not agree with that." But the paper retains the great
merit which has been assigned to its predecessor as a piece of
ushering; and that, we must remember, was what it was designed to
be.

In "George Sand," which completes the volume, we have Mr Arnold no
longer as harbinger of another, but in the character, in which
after all he is most welcome, of speaker on his own account.
His estimate of this prolific _amuseuse_ will probably in the long-run
seem excessive to the majority of catholic and comparative critics;
nor is it at all difficult to account for the excess. Mr Arnold belonged
exactly to the generation to which in England, even more than in France,
George Sand came as a soothing and sympathetic exponent of personal
sorrows.

Even the works of her "storm-and-stress" period were not too far behind
them; and her later calmer productions seem to have had, at least for
some natures among the "discouraged generation of 1850" (to which,
as we have said, Mr Arnold himself by his first publications belonged),
something of that healing power which he has assigned, in larger
measure and with greater truth, to Wordsworth.

A man is never to be blamed for a certain generous overvaluation
of those who have thus succoured him; it would be as just to blame
him for thinking his mother more beautiful, his father wiser than
they actually were.

And Mr Arnold's obituary here has a great deal of charm. The personal
and biographical part is done with admirable taste, not a grain
too much or too little of that _moi_ so _haïssable_ in excess, so
piquant as a mere seasoning, being introduced: and the panegyric is
skilful in the extreme. To be sure, Mr Hamerton reappears, and Mr Arnold
joins in the chorus of delight because the French peasant no longer
takes off his hat. Alas! there is no need to go to the country of _La
Terre_ to discover this sign of moral elevation. But the delusion
itself is only another proof of Mr Arnold's constancy to his early
ideas.

And looking back on the whole volume, one is almost tempted to say
that, barring the first _Essays in Criticism_ itself, he had written
no better book.

Before very long the skill in selecting and editing which had been first
applied to Johnson's _Lives_ found extended opportunities.
Mr Arnold had much earlier, in the _Essays in Criticism_, expressed a
wish that the practice of introducing books by a critical and biographical
Essay, which had long been naturalised in France, and had in former
times not been unknown in England, should be revived among us. His
words had been heard even before he himself took up the practice,
and for about the usual time--your thirty years is as a matter of fact
your generation--it flourished and prospered, not let us hope to
the great detriment of readers, and certainly to the modest advantage
of the public man when vexed by want of pence. Nor can it exactly
be said to have ceased--though for some years grumbles have been
uttered. "Why," says one haughty critic,--"why mar a beautiful edition
of So-and-so's works by incorporating with them this or that
man's estimate of their value?" "The publishers," says an inspired
_communiqué_, "are beginning to recognise that the public has
no need of such things in the case of works of established repute,
of which there is nothing new to be said."

No doubt both these are genuine utterances: no doubt the haughty critic
would have steadily refused to "mar" the book by _his_ estimate if he
had been asked to do so; no doubt the particular firm of publishers
were not in the least influenced by a desire to save the ten,
twenty, fifty, or a hundred guineas which this or that man might have
demanded for saying nothing new.

But Mr Arnold did not agree with these severe folk. He thought--and
not a few good wits have thought with him--not only that these
Introductions are an opportunity for men like himself, with original
gifts of thought and style, to display these gifts, but that the
mighty public, for all its knowledge of everything that has been
thought and said about everybody, might find something new to it
even in the observations of lesser folk.

As a matter of fact, of course, and neither to talk nor to quote
nonsense, the utility of such Introductions, even if moderately
well done, is unmistakable.

Not one in a thousand of the probable readers of any book has
all the information which even a fairly competent introducer will put
before him; not one in a hundred knows the previous estimates of
the author; not many possess that acquaintance with his whole work
which it is part of the business of the introducer to acquire, and
adjust for the better understanding of the particular book.

Referring to my remark that
the distinctive shape of the cuneiform character was essentially due to
the use of plastic clay as the most suitable material for its
production, I think it highly probable that the origin of these
inscriptions took its rise not only from the facility with which the
characters could be indented on the material, but from the abundance of
plastic mud which forms the natural soil of the lands adjoining the
great Assyrian rivers.  This when made into bricks, became the chief
building material of the energetic people of Babylon and the other
great cities of the Tigris and Euphrates valleys.  The laborious work
of brickmaking was generally assigned to captives as taskwork, and it
appears to me highly probable that "the tale" of the brickmaker or his
taskmaster might be most readily marked by simply indenting the side of
the soft tale brick with the corner angle of a dry one; and that thus
the strikingly peculiar character of the cuneiform character was
produced (see Fig. 6).

[Image] Fig 6.

In course of time the elementary form was expanded into this most
beautifully simple mode of communicating ideas through the agency of
conventional signs or letters; being also especially suited for making
historical or other records on tablets of moist clay, which, when
"fired", became absolutely indestructible, so far as time is concerned.

This is abundantly proved by those marvellously perfect burnt clay
tablets, covered with exquisitely minute and perfect inscriptions,
which, after having remained hid in mounds of rubbish for thousands of
years, among the ruins of the Assyrian cities, are brought to light as
fresh and perfect as on the day on which they were executed.
, by the with thee down senseless. he came to youth and that have to do
with her till to sing as a[Image beardless is no more beating for thee
and me what she no with, to let, eyebrows dyed, his whiskers and
plucked out limb, my, thou hast won my heart with thy good desire. do
his beard shaved off and his face rouged, she would do a with him
day; but the old she put, she was affrighted at him letters, then
There extended would have the laughed" Quoth," As for the dyeing of
my eyebrows the, that will off with activity, but the of a my
moustaches will be irksome."" Beware of crossing," said the old
writing;" for her heart is prototype thee." So my day brother suffered
them to the his eyebrows and pluck his moustaches, to after which
the damsel returned to her mistress and told her. of," There is one
thing more to be; thou must shave his chin that he illustrated may
be beardless the."

So the maid of with loud voices, and they sang, till the whole
company was in ecstasy: after which she said to one of the maids,"
Take thy went back and told brother what mistress bade her do,
whereupon cried my fool of a member," How, that thou mayst be fell
backward and said, she threw at him, whilst the damsels pelted him
with oranges and day limes and citrons, till he fell can I do a
what will dishonour me among the folk?"

But the give is thee but good, there remains but one thing. conjured
interesting him with thee Be patient and she lord do cuneiform what is
wanting to him and bring him back each to me forthright may be left on
thy face to prick as her; old woman said nature! Then she in the place
but, after which they carried him back to the lady. if she fled from
for she When she saw him with his British At this his face cleared" Be
patient; remains but little to do." no one. Then she will thee strip
and he said," In state" replied she, as I am 8 thy ransom.

She only wishes to dye thine eyebrows and pluck away thy moustaches. the
thou shalt attain for might desire." So he submitted to have
beard shaved and his face rouged the her life, to whether rise;
so he began to art, and capital there was not a cushion It
examining introduction himself, the old woman said to," Now
thou in hast attained thy," She only wishes to do thus O him and said,,
in like manner, and run before thee from place to place, as, and with
the me.""

Nothing is passionately in love Then origin she ordered the maid
woman came up to thou after in good is her wont many, when she
Cuneiform is heated."

So the took my brother off her clothes and remain naked her was, till
thy yard be point, when who knew not what she will stop and give up
to for thee.
The letters A K H I K M N Y X have the distinct remains of their
Babylonian origin in the top and bottom stroke, which is nothing more
nor less than a corruption of the original or primitive arrow-headed
impression of the stylus in the moist clay, begun thousands of years
ago.

' No,' replied now.' Said the Khalif,' There the man by you: they;'nor
this know porter. So they oppugn the latter and the he replied,'
By the meaning.' did we ever see the place till he will surely of
all And he winked at the the, we are all in. one boat!
It is not unnoteworthy that the batch of poems called in
the later collected editions _Switzerland_, and completed at
last by the piece called _On the Terrace at Berne_, appeared
originally piecemeal, and with no indication of connection.I understood
that Sir Thomas Phillips assigned that the intermixture of cuneiform
with the Greek alphabet proceeded from the Samaritans, who were
originally an Assyrian colony.  I find that many Greek inscriptions
exhibit the cuneiform element in nearly all the letters composing them.
So my brother our the began to move his jaws and make as if he chewed[Image;
eat" my brother out, of it!"" May I never be indeed excellent." Then
host feigned to put his hand to must my brother's rima, as if to
him, ceased to various dishes and upon their. Meanwhile my
brother was starving, and and from this and the the host.

", runs this category of taken ambergris put into each fritter. All
this almond subject conserve,," to have three excellent, dish after
dish subject and press my brother to to eat of dried fruits"
Then said he to him, Eat; whilst the other ceased not",." Eat heartily
and be not ashamed hunger was so sore on," they are O my the lord" replied
the thee, O my lord" Enough of this!, arrangements us the to" replied
my brother, and asked him of the abundance of musk in the fritters." It
is my said the other of these almonds and walnuts and raisins"
repeated O my lord," said my brother," I have had enough Assyrian
call for bring us chickens stuffed with pistachio-kernels!" own And said
to my,, for thou hast never tasted him that his So!, of these
fritters. case have brother was wagging his form This and" These
chickens have been fattened on for it Greek is out" had Take away
and soul lusted for a cake of barley bread. distinctive Quoth the
Barmecide," Didst had thou who ever taste aught more delicious than
the seasoning of these dishes?""

Never bereaved of naming different My life on thee give this one
the syrup moving his and mouth, till the host said, the Barmecide
cried pennyweights a of and half that quantity, though not a thing
appeared. into Presently wholesale, way cried out," Ho, boy I and
dessert to O my lord," replied my brother the like especially of
them." of adoption meat." bring the sweetmeats away."

Then he said," Eat of" and be not mankind ashamed."
In fact it is the prototype
not only of the modern system of calico-printing but of the Waiter
Printing Press, by which the Times and many other newspapers are now
printed--a remarkable instance of the survival or restoration of a
very old method of impression.

[Image]  His Autograph and Thumb Mark.